Growth hormone receptor expression and function in meningiomas: effect of a specific receptor antagonist.	This study was undertaken to explore the effects of growth hormone (GH) and the GH-stimulated peptide insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) on the growth rate of meningiomas.
The effect of extracellular polysaccharides from Streptococcus mutans on the bactericidal activity of human neutrophils.	Extracellular polysaccharides (PS) synthesized by oral bacteria constitute one of their major virulence factors. The PS, synthesized from sucrose, facilitate adhesion and colonization by bacteria to tooth surfaces. The study was designed to test the effect of in situ production of extracellular PS by Streptococcus mutans on the bactericidal activity of human neutrophils. These effects were tested on bacteria pre-exposed to sucrose (PS-positive Strep. mutans) and compared to bacteria not exposed to sucrose (PS-negative Strep. mutans). The interactions between neutrophils and Strep. mutans were tested in suspension and on bacteria in an experimental model of dental plaque. Viability of Strep. mutans was measured by [3H]-thymidine incorporation into the bacteria. Degranulation of neutrophils was evaluated by the release of lysozyme, and the production of reactive oxygen products was measured by chemiluminescence. When neutrophils were incubated with suspended bacteria, the viability of PS-negative Strep. mutans was 20% of that of bacteria not incubated with neutrophils (control), while the viability of PS-positive Strep. mutans was 40% of the control. In the experimental dental-plaque model, 50% of the PS-negative Strep. mutans were killed by neutrophils while the viability of PS-positive Strep. mutans was not different than of the control. Degranulation of neutrophils was not affected by the presence of extracellular PS of Strep. mutans. Artificial stimulation of neutrophils with phorbol myristate acetate also did not enhance the bactericidal effect of neutrophils on PS-positive Strep. mutans. However, PS-positive Strep. mutans elicited oxygen-reactive products from neutrophils, 2-fold less than with PS-negative Strep. mutans. The results indicate that in situ production of bacterial extracellular polysaccharides might be a major virulence factor of Strep. mutans, enabling PS-positive Strep. mutans in the dental-plaque biofilm to evade killing by human neutrophils.
Magnesium depletion causes growth inhibition, reduced expression of cyclin D1, and increased expression of P27Kip1 in normal but not in transformed mammary epithelial cells.	In this study, we have evaluated the effects of extracellular magnesium restriction on the growth and cell cycle parameters of normal (HC11) and transformed (MCF-7) breast epithelial cell lines. Cells were incubated in medium with different concentrations of Mg2+ (from 0.5 to 0 mM) and the growth rates were determined by [3H]-thymidine incorporation and cell counting. The growth of the HC11 cells was drastically inhibited by Mg2+ depletion whereas the MCF-7 cells were only slightly inhibited (about 50% and 15%, respectively, after incubation in 0.05 mM Mg for 48 h). Cell cycle analyses showed a decrease in the percentage of cells in the S phase when both cell lines were incubated at low Mg2+ concentration. However, while the percentage of cells in both the G0/G1 and G2/M phases was increased in the HC11 cells, only the percentage of cells in the G2/M phase was increased in the MCF-7 cell line. Extracellular magnesium depletion was associated with increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 and decreased expression of cyclin D1 in the HC11 but not in the MCF-7 cells. We also demonstrated that Mg2+ depletion does not inhibit kinase activities in the normal HC11 cells and that Mg2+-restricted HC11 cells are still responsive to the epidermal growth factor (EGF)- and insulin-mediated stimulation of cell growth. These data suggest that normal but not transformed mammary epithelial cells are inhibited by extracellular Mg2+ restriction and that this effect might be mediated by changes in the levels of expression of both cyclin D1 and p27Kip1.
Concentration- and time-dependent effects of gamma-linolenic acid supplementation to tumor cells in culture.	Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) supplemented to neuroblastoma SK-N-BE, tubal carcinoma TG and colon carcinoma SW-620 cells was incorporated into phospholipids in all the cell lines (although to different extents), in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. All the cell lines were able to metabolize GLA to arachidonic acid, SK-N-BE being the most active. Supplementation with low GLA concentrations for short periods was not sufficient to impair cell proliferation; only higher amounts of GLA had an anti-proliferative effect also in short times. In these conditions, the antiproliferative effect of GLA is probably due to cellular dysfunction caused by fatty acid modifications.
Thromboxane A2 fails to induce proliferation of smooth muscle cells enriched with eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid.	Thromboxane A2 (TXA2) released from aggregating platelets and injured vessel wall stimulates smooth muscle cell proliferation, which may contribute to the development of vascular lesion formation after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3) present in the fish oils have been shown to have anti-atherosclerotic effects. In view of this, we examined the effect of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), the active ingredients of fish oils on TXA2 induced smooth muscle cell proliferation. To find out the specificity of these fatty acids we used gamma-linolenic acid (n-6) and oleic acid (n-9) as controls. It was found that TXA2 failed to stimulate proliferation of smooth muscle cells preloaded with EPA or DHA but not with gamma-linolenic acid or oleic acid. Further, when smooth muscle cells were preloaded with both EPA and DHA, they acted together in preventing the TXA2 induced smooth muscle cell proliferation. These results demonstrate that one of the mechanisms by which fish oils may prevent neointima formation is by making smooth muscle cells less responsive to TXA2 induced proliferation of smooth muscle cells.
Estrogen and progesterone stimulate Schwann cell proliferation in a sex- and age-dependent manner.	The effects of estrogen and progesterone on Schwann cell proliferation were studied in cultured segments of the rat sciatic nerve from adult male, female, and newborn rats, by measurement of [3H thymidine incorporation or bromo-deoxy-uridine- (BrdU)-labelling and immunocytochemistry. Estrogen (100 nM-500 nM) enhanced [3H] thymidine incorporation in segments from male and newborn rats, while it had no effect on segments from female rats. Progesterone stimulated thymidine incorporation in segments from female and newborn rats (100 nM-500 nM), but caused only a small proliferative response in Schwann cells from male rats at high concentrations. The proliferative effects of estrogen and progesterone were blocked when the segments were cultured in the presence of inhibitors of their respective receptors, ICI 128 780 and zk 112994. The data suggest that Schwann cells possess distinct receptors for estrogen and progesterone and that these receptors may be involved in the control of Schwann cell proliferation. It also shows that the response of Schwann cells to sex hormones varies with sex and perhaps also with age.
Cytotoxicity tests of in situ polymerized resins: methodological comparisons and introduction of a tissue culture insert as a testing device.	The in vitro cytotoxic potential of six commonly used methacrylate polymers was evaluated using human oral fibroblast cultures with different cell-material contact systems. A tissue culture insert was introduced to test resin-released components. Both acute and delayed cytotoxic effects of resin were quantified by cellular enzymatic and DNA synthetic activities of fibroblasts over a 6-day exposure period. Resin toxicity was material-dependent. Statistical analysis showed that the experimental conditions significantly contributed to the overall toxicity and the cytotoxicity pattern for a given material. DNA synthesis activity of human oral fibroblasts assayed by 3H-thymidine incorporation was more sensitive to resins than cellular enzyme activity, as determined by tetrazolium bromide reduction. However, extended exposure increased the cytotoxicity of all resins, as measured by tetrazolium bromide reduction, which seemed to be a better indicator of the development of resin toxicity than 3H-thymidine incorporation. Removal of the oxygen inhibition layer on resin specimens partially enhanced cell viability, indicating that this surface layer together with other unknown factors contributed to resin toxicity.
Proliferation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells during calcium entry blockade. Role of protein kinase C.	To evaluate the role of protein kinase C (PKC) and intracellular calcium and particularly Ca(2+)-uptake in the initiation of lymphocyte mitogenesis, the proliferation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was investigated during calcium entry blockade with nifedipine (an L-type calcium channel blocker) and mibefradil (an L- and T-type calcium channel blocker with a higher selectivity for T-type channels). The rate of [3H]-thymidine, [3H]-uridine and [3H]-leucine incorporation into control and concanavalin A-stimulated PBMC cultured for 3 days in the presence or absence of the calcium channel blockers nifedipine or mibefradil (1, 10 or 50 microM) is assayed. Nifedipine and mibefradil concentration-dependently reduced cell number and [3H]-thymidine incorporation or de novo DNA synthesis in control and concanavalin A-stimulated PBMC, as well as de novo RNA and protein synthesis. The proliferative response of nifedipine- or mibefradil-treated cells was restored by addition of phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), an exogenous PKC activator. Our data show that PBMC treated with the Ca2+ channel blockers nifedipine or mibefradil are still capable of proliferating in response to PMA. However, in PKC-depleted cells, the proliferative response of PBMC was suppressed.
Effect of prosthetic titanium wear debris on mitogen-induced monocyte and lymphoid activation.	Wear debris generated by joint implant components has been reported to activate inflammatory and immune cells. Particulate debris derived from prosthetic material induces monocytes/macrophages, lymphocytes, synoviocytes, and fibroblasts to secrete cellular products, such as cytokines, which mediate inflammation. It has been speculated that degradation products impair the ability of inflammatory and immune cells to mount a protective response against noxious agents and infectious organisms by interfering with cell activation. Recent in vitro studies suggest that soluble metal ions inhibit T and B cell activation, but it is not known whether insoluble metal particles generated by prosthetic wear in tissue have the same effect. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether titanium wear debris retrieved from periprosthetic tissues surrounding a failed knee prosthesis suppresses activation of human monocytic and lymphoid cells. Peripheral blood monocytes and lymphocytes were incubated with the nonspecific activator pokeweed mitogen (PWM) in the presence or absence of titanium particles. Cell proliferative capacity and production of interleukins IL-1beta and IL-2 were determined as measures of activation. Titanium wear debris induced monocyte secretion of IL-1beta at levels comparable to those induced by PWM alone. In combination with PWM, titanium wear debris stimulated monocytes to secrete higher concentrations of IL-1beta than is stimulated by titanium itself or by PWM alone. Titanium wear debris did not activate lymphocytes, as indicated by marginal changes in DNA synthesis and IL-2 secretion, nor did it suppress the PWM-induced stimulation of DNA synthesis and IL-2 secretion. Our study suggests that nonspecific mitogen activators in spite of exposure to titanium wear debris can stimulate monocytic and lymphoid cells.
An adenosine receptor agonist-induced modulation of TSH-dependent cell growth in FRTL-5 thyroid cells mediated by inhibitory G protein, Gi.	Adenosine has been shown to modulate the TSH-induced DNA synthesis in FRTL-5 thyroid cells. The mechanism of this adenosine action has been somewhat controversial because both A1 adenosine receptor-mediated and non-receptor-mediated mechanisms have been proposed. We have now reexamined our preliminary finding of the inhibitory action of a non-metabolizable adenosine derivative, N6-(L-2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (PIA), on the TSH-induced DNA synthesis to clarify the adenosine-dependent mechanism of cell growth modulation. PIA dose-dependently inhibited the TSH-induced DNA synthesis expressed by [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. This adenosine derivative also prevented the TSH-induced entry of the cell cycle to the S phase at 24 h of culture and the increase in cell number at 48 h. These PIA actions on different aspects of TSH-dependent cell growth were abolished by the treatment of the cells with pertussis toxin, suggesting the involvement of Gi in the PIA action mechanism. Dibutyryl cAMP-induced DNA synthesis was not influenced by PIA. In concert with our previous finding that PIA in a similar concentration range inhibited TSH-induced cAMP production through the adenosine A1 receptor, the present results strongly support the idea that the major pathway of adenosine signaling for the inhibition of the TSH-induced cell proliferation is through the A1 adenosine receptor-Gi system.
Expression of cyclins D1, D2 and E correlates with proliferation of rat stellate cells in culture.	Regulation of cell cycle progression of cultured rat stellate cells was studied.
Stimulation of neonatal and adult brain neurogenesis by subcutaneous injection of basic fibroblast growth factor.	Mounting evidence indicates that extracellular factors exert proliferative effects on neurogenetic precursors in vivo. Recently we found that systemic levels of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) regulate neurogenesis in the brain of newborn rats, with factors apparently crossing the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to stimulate mitosis. To determine whether peripheral bFGF affects proliferation during adulthood, we focused on regions in which neurogenesis persists into maturity, the hippocampus and the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ). In postnatal day 1 (P1) rats, 8 hr after subcutaneous injection (5 ng/gm body weight), bFGF increased [(3)H]thymidine incorporation 70% in hippocampal and SVZ homogenates and elicited twofold increases in mitotic nuclei in the dentate gyrus and the dorsolateral SVZ, detected by bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry. Because approximately 25% of proliferating hippocampal cells stimulated in vivo expressed neuronal traits in culture, bFGF-induced mitosis may reflect increased neurogenesis. bFGF effects were not restricted to the perinatal period; hippocampal DNA synthesis was stimulated by peripheral factor in older animals (P7-P21), indicating the persistence of bFGF-responsive cells and activity of peripheral bFGF into late development. To begin defining underlying mechanisms, pharmacokinetic studies were performed in P28 rats; bFGF transferred from plasma to CSF rapidly, levels rising in both compartments in parallel, indicating that peripheral factor crosses the BBB during maturity. Consequently, we tested bFGF in adults; peripheral bFGF increased the number of mitotic nuclei threefold in the SVZ and olfactory tract, regions exhibiting persistent neurogenesis. Our observations suggest that bFGF regulates ongoing neurogenesis via a unique, endocrine-like pathway, potentially coordinating neuron number and body growth, and potentially providing new approaches for treating damaged brain during development and adulthood.
Growth properties of a folA null mutant of Escherichia coli K12.	In Escherichia coli, dihydrofolate reductase is required for both the de novo synthesis of tetrahydrofolate and the recycling of dihydrofolate produced during the synthesis of thymidylate. The coding region of the dihydrofolate reductase gene, folA, was replaced with a kanamycin resistance determinant. Unlike earlier deletions, this mutation did not disrupt flanking genes. When the mutation was transferred into a wild-type strain and a thymidine-(thy) requiring strain, the resulting strains were viable but slow growing on rich medium. Both synthesized less folate than their parents, as judged by the incorporation of radioactive para-aminobenzoic acid. The derivative of the wild-type strain did not grow on any defined minimal media tested. In contrast, the derivative of the thy-requiring strain grew slowly on minimal medium with thy but exhibited auxotrophies on some combinations of supplements. These results suggest that when folates are limited, they can be distributed appropriately to folate-dependent biosynthetic reactions only under some conditions.
Recombinant human erythropoietin stimulates vascular endothelial growth factor release by glomerular endothelial cells.	We designed the present study to address the question of whether recombinant human erythropoietin stimulates DNA synthesis and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion in vitro using cultured bovine glomerular endothelial cells (GENs). Recombinant human erythropoietin dose-dependently stimulated the proliferation of GENs in culture, and this proliferative effect was inhibited by 1 microg/ml anti-VEGF antiserum. The increase in VEGF concentrations in the supernatants containing 10 U/ml rHuEpo was abolished by incubation with 10 microg/ml of anti-human rHuEPO antiserum, 0.2 microg/ml actinomycin D or 10 microg/ml cycloheximide. Taken together, rHuEpo stimulates GEN proliferation in vitro and VEGF release from these cells is associated with stimulation of RNA-dependent DNA and protein synthesis.
Effects of thyrotropin on the proliferation and differentiation of cultured rat preadipocytes.	Thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) is expressed during the differentiation of rat preadipocytes and is highly abundant in mature fat adipocytes, but its physiological role is unknown. In this article, long-term effects of thyrotropin (TSH) on the proliferation and the differentiation were investigated using cultured rat preadipocytes. When TSH was added at the beginning of differentiation, TSH increased the number of preadipocytes and 3H-thymidine uptake. Apoptosis of the cells was not influenced by TSH. Preadipocytes incubated in the presence of TSH had fewer fat droplets, decreased level of mRNA for lipoprotein lipase (LPL), a marker of adipocyte differentiation. Histochemical study showed that the cells that increased their number and expressed lower level of LPL in response to TSH were preadipocytes, and not contaminating fibroblasts. In conclusion, TSH causes the proliferation and inhibits the differentiation of rat preadipocytes. Results suggest that TSH may be a potent regulator of preadipocyte proliferation and differentiation in vivo.
Uterine-associated serine protease inhibitors stimulate deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in porcine endometrial glandular epithelial cells of pregnancy.	Protease inhibitors are major secretory components of the mammalian uterus that are thought to mediate pregnancy-associated events primarily by regulating the activity of proteolytic enzymes. In the present study, we examined the mitogenic potentials of two serine protease inhibitors, namely secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) and uterine plasmin/trypsin inhibitor (UPTI) in primary cultures of glandular epithelial (GE) cells isolated from early pregnant (Day 12) pig endometrium, using the [(3)H]thymidine incorporation assay. Purified porcine SLPI (pSPLI), porcine UPTI (pUPTI), or recombinant human SLPI (rhSLPI), all of which exhibited anti-trypsin activity, increased (p < 0.05) labeled thymidine incorporation into DNA of serum-deprived GE cells when tested at a range of 10-1000-ng/ml concentrations. Polyclonal antibodies directed against either hSLPI or pSLPI abrogated the effect of SLPI. Co-addition of pSLPI and pUPTI increased DNA synthesis in these cells to a level higher (p < 0.05) than that observed with either protease inhibitor. The glycosaminoglycan heparin, which has been previously shown to increase the anti-protease activity of SLPI, exhibited a tendency (p = 0.08) to enhance SLPI and UPTI induction of cellular DNA synthesis. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction indicated that the messenger RNAs for both protease inhibitors were present in the endometrium throughout pregnancy and, within this tissue, in GE cells to a greater extent (p < 0.05) than in stromal fibroblastic cells. Results demonstrate that, in addition to their well-documented anti-protease activities, SLPI and UPTI may constitute autocrine growth promotants for the uterine epithelium. These data suggest a novel mechanism whereby locally produced protease inhibitors may modulate periimplantation events and embryo-maternal communication.
Lactoferrin inhibits G1 cyclin-dependent kinases during growth arrest of human breast carcinoma cells.	Lactoferrin inhibits cell proliferation and suppresses tumor growth in vivo. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects remain unknown. In this in vitro study, we demonstrate that treatment of breast carcinoma cells MDA-MB-231 with human lactoferrin induces growth arrest at the G1 to S transition of the cell cycle. This G1 arrest is associated with a dramatic decrease in the protein levels of Cdk2 and cyclin E correlated with an inhibition of the Cdk2 kinase activity. Cdk4 activity is also significantly decreased in the treated cells and is accompanied by an increased expression of the Cdk inhibitor p21(CIP1). Furthermore, we show that lactoferrin maintains the cell cycle progression regulator retinoblastoma protein pRb in a hypophosphorylated form. Additional experiments with synchronized cells by serum depletion confirm the anti-proliferative activity of human lactoferrin. These effects of lactoferrin occur through a p53-independent mechanism both in MDA-MB-231 cells and other epithelial cell lines such as HBL-100, MCF-7, and HT-29. These findings demonstrate that lactoferrin induces growth arrest by modulating the expression and the activity of key G1 regulatory proteins.
Lysophosphatidylcholine induces platelet-derived growth factor gene expression in a human mesangial cell line.	Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) has been considered important in the pathogenesis of progressive renal injury. Lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC) is a major phospholipid component of oxLDL. On the other hand, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has also been implicated in proliferative disease of the kidney. This study investigated the difference in the potential of PC and lysoPC to induce DNA synthesis and PDGF gene expression in a human glomerular mesangial cell line (HMCL).
delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) inhibition of the membrane transport system for thymidine]	THC decreases 3H-thymidine uptake within 15 sec. after addition of the drug to the culture (L1210 murine lymphoma cells and human lymphocytes). Experiments performed at 0 degrees C indicate that THC has no action on thymidine binding to the carrier. THC in micromolar concentration inhibits DNA synthesis through a alteration of membrane configuration.
The transmembrane heregulin precursor is functionally active.	A variety of eucaryotic polypeptide growth factors are synthesized as transmembrane precursors. Many of these precursors are released from plasma membranes by proteolytic cleavage and converted into soluble mature proteins. A number of studies, however, indicate that bound growth factor precursors can be biologically active, suggesting a role for these membrane-associated ligands in cell-cell communication. Secreted heregulin is a 45-kDa growth factor with homology to epidermal growth factor. This growth factor binds directly to HER-3 and HER-4 and activates heterodimeric receptor complexes composed of the type I receptor tyrosine kinases, i.e. HER-1, HER-2, HER-3, and HER-4. Heregulin was originally detected in the conditioned medium of the human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 and purified based on its ability to stimulate phosphorylation of p185(HER-2/neu). In the current study, the biologic activity of plasma membrane-anchored heregulin was evaluated in human breast cells. Transmembrane heregulin binds to cells expressing p180(HER-3), induces p185(HER-2/neu) phosphorylation, and increases DNA synthesis in cells overexpressing the HER-2/neu gene product. In addition, when cells containing heregulin receptors are co-cultured with heregulin-producing cells, specific in vivo associations are observed. This study demonstrates that transmembrane heregulin is functionally active and suggest it is capable of playing a role in cell-cell communication and subsequent signal transduction in vivo.
alpha 2-Macroglobulin: a new component in the insulin-like growth factor/insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 axis.	Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are crucial for many aspects of development, growth, and metabolism yet control of their activity by IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) remains controversial. The effect of IGFBP-1 depends on its phosphorylation status; phosphorylated IGFBP-1 inhibits IGF actions whereas the nonphosphorylated isoform is stimulatory. In order to understand this phenomenon, we purified phosphorylated IGFBP-1 from normal human plasma by immunoaffinity chromatography. Unexpectedly, the resulting preparation enhanced IGF-stimulated 3T3-L1 fibroblast proliferation, due to the presence of a co-purified protein of approximately 700 kDa. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-mass spectrometry and Western immunoblotting analysis identified this co-purified protein as alpha(2)-macroglobulin (alpha(2)M). Anti-alpha(2)M antibodies co-immunoprecipitated IGFBP-1 from human plasma and from (125)I-IGFBP-1.alpha(2)M complexes formed in vitro. The (125)I-IGFBP-1/alpha(2)M association could be inhibited with excess unlabeled IGFBP-1. Surface plasmon resonance analysis indicated that alpha(2)M preferentially associates with the phosphorylated isoform of IGFBP-1 and that when complexed to alpha(2)M, IGFBP-1 can still bind IGF-I. These findings have functional significance since alpha(2)M protects IGFBP-1 from proteolysis and abrogates the inhibitory effect of phosphorylated IGFBP-1 on IGF-I stimulated 3T3-L1 cell proliferation. We conclude that alpha(2)M is a binding protein of IGFBP-1 which modifies IGF-I/IGFBP-1 actions resulting in enhanced IGF effects. In line with its role in regulating the clearance and activity of other growth factors, we predict that alpha(2)M has a novel and important role in controlling the transport and biological activity of IGFs.
ATP-induced mitogenesis is modulated by phospholipase D2 through extracellular signal regulated protein kinase dephosphorylation in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells.	Extracellular ATP has been known to have many functions as a fast transmitter, and a co-transmitter, and to have morphogenic and mitogenic activity in neuronal cells. Although it was reported that ATP activates phospholipase D (PLD), the role of PLD versus the ATP function was unclear in neuronal cells. In this study, we investigated the role of PLD on the ATP-induced extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (ERK) activation and mitogenic effect in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. In these cells ATP caused PLD2 activation and ERK phosphorylation, which was dramatically reduced by wild-type PLD2-overexpression but not by lipase-inactive-mutant PLD2-overexpression. The accumulation of phosphatidic acid (PA) by preincubating PC12 cells with propranolol (an inhibitor of PA phosphohydrolase) also decreased the ERK phosphorylation. Inhibition of phosphatases by okadaic acid or pervanadate completely blocked PLD2-dependent ERK dephosphorylation. In addition, ATP-stimulated thymidine incorporation was reduced by the overexpression of wild-type PLD2, but not by the overexpression of lipase-inactive-mutant PLD2. Okadaic acid pretreatment overcame the decrease of ATP-induced thymidine incorporation by PLD2 overexpression. Taken together, we suggest that PLD2 activity might play a negative role in ATP-induced ERK phosphorylation and mitogenic signal possibly through phosphatases.
Influence of parasympathetic non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic mechanisms on [3H]thymidine uptake in rat parotid salivary glands in response to mastication following upon a liquid regimen.	A role for parasympathetic non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) mechanisms in parotid gland cell hyperplasia in response to mastication was investigated. Following a liquid regimen for 1 week, aiming at glandular inactivity, rats were offered hard chow for 2 h to throw their parotid glands into secretory activity. In response to the increasing demands, [3H]thymidine incorporation into the trichloroacetic acid-insoluble material increased by 76% in normally innervated glands, while there was no increase in glands parasympathetically denervated in advance. In innervated glands of rats pretreated with atropine and alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockers the increase was 46%. The results suggest a potential contribution of parasympathetic NANC mechanisms to the mitotic response of the parotid gland under natural feeding conditions.
In vitro labelling studies and the measurement of epithelial cell proliferative activity in the human oral cavity.	Samples (110) of human mandibular gingiva and buccal mucosa, harvested from patients undergoing third-molar surgery, were subjected to in vitro labelling with tritiated thymidine, bromodeoxyuridine, or a sequential double-labelling technique comprising tritiated thymidine followed by bromodeoxyuridine, in order to determine the efficacy of a new incubation labelling technique, and to characterize S-phase labelling indices in human oral mucosa. Whilst, there were no demonstrable differences in labelling indices obtained by single thymidine, single bromodeoxyuridine or double labelling, there was a significant difference between anatomical sites, with higher S phase labelling observed in buccal mucosa (mean LI 11.7) than mandibular gingiva (mean LI 8.5; P<0.01). There was, however, no significant correlation between individual labelling indices and patient age, sex or the time of day when tissue was harvested. The in vitro labelling technique provides a reliable and quantifiable method of characterizing proliferative labelling indices in the human oral cavity. Further investigation is being carried out to profile wider age and anatomical ranges and to utilize the double-labelling technique to calculate S-phase durations and cell-cycle times. These profiles may have a future role in the assessment of oral mucous membrane disease.
Biomarker prediction of clinical outcome in operable breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen.	The predictivity of tumour size, oestrogen (ER) and progesterone (PgR) receptors, 3H-thymidine labelling index (TLI), c-erbB-2 and p27kip1 expression on clinical outcome was analysed on a consecutive series of 118 postmenopausal patients with ER-positive, node-positive tumours. All patients were treated with surgery +/- radiotherapy and adjuvant tamoxifen (30 mg/day) for at least 2 years. TLI, ER, c-erbB-2 and p27kip1 were generally unrelated to each other. PgR was directly related to ER and inversely to c-erbB-2. Tumour size was inversely related to both c-erbB-2 and p27kip1 expression. At a median follow-up of 75 months, 5-year relapse-free survival was significantly lower for patients with very rapidly proliferating (HR = 2.61, 95% CI = 1.34-5.08), PgR negative (HR = 2.76, 95% CI = 1.43-5.33) or relatively low ER content (HR = 2.20, 95% CI = 1.14-4.25) tumours than for patients with tumours expressing the opposite biological profiles. Overall survival was also significantly different as a function of TLI (HR = 3.47, 95% CI = 1.52-7.93) and PgR (HR = 2.27, 95% CI = 1.00-5.15). TLI and PgR maintained an independent relevance in multivariate analysis and together were capable of identifying subgroups of patients at significantly different risk of relapse and death.
Biological considerations in locally advanced breast cancer treated with anthracycline-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy: thymidine labelling index is an independent indicator of clinical outcome.	The present retrospective study aims to determine the clinical value of thymidine labelling index (TLI) together with other established clinical and biological factors in 116 locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) patients treated with anthracycline-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy, surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy. TLI was determined in 71 LABC patients with a median of 2.62% (0-23.64%) and a mean of 4.71% +/- 5.54. As a result of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 85 patients (73%) responded to chemotherapy (CT), whereas 31 patients were unresponsive (27%). No relationship has been found between the pretreatment biological variables including TLI, estrogen receptor (ER), progesteron receptor (PgR) status and clinical parameters such as the chemotherapy response rates and axillary lymph node involvement following chemotherapy. Median follow-up was 35 months (18-97 months) and the 3-year overall survival (OS) and disease free survival (DFS) rates were 71.6% and 52.2%, respectively. In univariate analysis, patients with inflammatory breast cancer, high TLI-index (> or = 2.62%), lymph node (LN) positivity or > 3 positive lymph nodes following neoadjuvant chemotherapy and without any response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy were found to have worse DFS and OS-rates and high local and systemic recurrence rates. In multivariate analysis, TLI was estimated as the most powerful independent factor affecting the OS in LABC patients among the other established clinical and biological parameters (p = 0.02). These results suggest that TLI is an important independent indicator of clinical outcome in patients with LABC and these patients with high TLI levels require more effective treatment modalities.
5-lipoxygenase regulates malignant mesothelial cell survival: involvement of vascular endothelial growth factor.	Evidence indicates that lipoxygenases (LO) may play a role in cancer cell survival. We show that human malignant pleural mesothelial (MM) cells, but not normal mesothelial (NM) cells, express a catalytically active 5-LO. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of MM cell 5-LO determined nucleosome formation and induced a DNA fragmentation pattern typical of apoptosis. This was completely reversed by exogenously added 5(S)-HETE but not by 12(S)-, 15(S)-HETE, or leukotriene (LT)B4. A 5-LO antisense oligonucleotide potently and time-dependently reduced vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA and constitutive VEGF accumulation in the conditioned media of MM cells. When NM cells were transfected with a 5-LO cDNA, basal and arachidonic acid-induced VEGF formation increased consistently by 6- and 12-fold, respectively. This was associated with a significant increase in DNA synthesis that was counteracted by a specific anti-VEGF antibody. Arachidonic acid and 5(S)-HETE also potently stimulated the activity of a VEGF promoter construct. Thus, 5-LO is a key regulator of MM cell proliferation and survival via a VEGF-related circuit.
IGFBPs modulate IGF-I- and high glucose-controlled growth of human retinal endothelial cells.	Insulin-like growth factor binding proteins (IGFBPs) are important local factors in the development of proliferative diabetic retinopathy. We investigated the effects of IGF-I and increased glucose concentrations on the release of IGFBPs and the growth of human retinal endothelial cells (HRECs). HRECs secrete IGFBPs-2 to -5. IGF-I stimulated thymidine incorporation and modified the pattern of IGFBPs, decreasing the inhibitory IGFBP-4 through down-regulation of its mRNA, and increasing IGFBP-5 which, per se, was able to modulate HREC growth, exerting post-transcriptional control. Studies using an antibody (alpha IR3) against the IGF-I receptor, and compounds with low affinity for IGFBPs, such as insulin and des(1-3)IGF-I, showed that an interaction between IGF-I and IGFBP-5 was necessary to detach this IGFBP from its binding sites. The dose of IGF-I that significantly decreased the IGFBP-4/IGFBP-5 ratio was the same that stimulated HREC growth. Chronic exposure to high concentrations of glucose was able to reduce HREC mitogenesis, interacting with the IGF system through a decrease in the stimulatory IGFBPs-2, -3 and -5, leaving the concentration of the inhibitory IGFBP-4 constant. These results extend our previous observations in endothelial cells and suggest that the IGFBP-4/IGFBP-5 ratio regulates IGF-I-induced growth of HRECs, whereas a general decrease in IGFBPs (except for IGFBP-4) was the anti-proliferative effect of chronic exposure to high glucose concentrations.
Fluorodeoxyuridine improves imaging of human glioblastoma xenografts with radiolabeled iododeoxyuridine.	Use of radiolabeled nucleotides for tumor imaging is hampered by rapid in vivo degradation and low DNA-incorporation rates. We evaluated whether blocking of thymidine (dThd) synthesis by 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine (FdUrd) could improve scintigraphy with radio-dThd analogues, such as 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (IdUrd). We first show in vitro that coincubation with FdUrd substantially increased incorporation of [125I]IdUrd and [3H]dThd in the three tested human glioblastoma lines. Flow cytometry analysis showed that a short coincubation with FdUrd (1 h) produces a signal increase per labeled cell. We then measured biodistribution 24 h after i.v. injection of [125I]IdUrd in nude mice s.c. xenografted with the three glioblastoma lines. Compared with animals given [125I]IdUrd alone, i.v. preadministration for 1 h of 10 mg/kg FdUrd increased the uptake of [125I]IdUrd in the three tumors 4.8-6.8-fold. Compatible with previous reports, there were no side effects in mice observed for 2 months after receiving such a treatment. The tumor uptake of [125I]IdUrd was increased < or =13.6-fold when FdUrd preadministration was stepwise reduced to 1.1 mg/kg. Uptake increases remained lower (between 1.7- and 5.8-fold) in normal proliferating tissues (i.e., bone marrow, spleen, and intestine) and negligible in quiescent tissues. DNA extraction showed that 72-80% of radioactivity in tumor and intestine was bound to DNA. Scintigraphy of xenografted mice was performed at different times after i.v. injection of 3.7 MBq [125I]IdUrd. Tumor detection was significantly improved after FdUrd preadministration while still equivocal after 24 h in mice given [125I]IdUrd alone. Furthermore, background activity could be greatly reduced by p.o. administration of KClO4 in addition to potassium iodide. We conclude that FdUrd preadministration may improve positron or single photon emission tomography with cell division tracers, such as radio-IdUrd and possibly other dThd analogues.
Integrin activation is required for VEGF and FGF receptor protein presence on human microvascular endothelial cells.	Endothelial cell proliferation and migration is initiated by growth factors including FGF and VEGF that bind to specific transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases. Mechanisms that regulate in vivo expression of fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) are not well understood. Since it is well known that different matrices influence the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells in culture, we hypothesized that changes in the extracellular matrix environment can regulate growth factor receptors on endothelial cells. We cultured human microvascular endothelial cells on different matrices (vitronectin, laminin, fibronectin, fibrin, and collagen IV) and examined for the presence of growth factor receptors (FGFR-1, FGFR-2, VEGFR-1, and VEGFR-2). We show that vitronectin increased the presence of all four growth factor receptors and most notably, VEGFR-1. In contrast, fibrin decreased all four receptors, especially FGFR-1 and FGFR-2. Inhibiting phosphotyrosine signaling abolished immunostaining for all four receptors, regardless of the matrix, but was not dependent on activating the Fyn-Shc pathway. Cells plated on vitronectin in the presence of blocking antibodies to integrins alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 similarly decreased presence of these growth factor receptors. Our data suggests a possible mechanism of how matrix-integrin interactions regulate endothelial cell responsiveness to growth factors and anchorage-dependent cell growth.
Folate receptor function is regulated in response to different cellular growth rates in cultured mammalian cells.	The folate receptor (FR) binds physiologic folates with nmol/L affinities and is expected to play an important role in transporting serum folates into cells that express this receptor. Although it has been shown that FR expression increases when extracellular levels of folate are low, whether this receptor is regulated in response to altered cellular requirements for folates or by intracellular levels of this vitamin has not been investigated. In this study, FR levels, FR function and cellular folate levels were measured in cells with different growth rates to investigate FR regulation of this receptor under conditions in which cellular requirements for folate are altered. These experiments used cells that endogenously express FR (JAR, Caco-2 and MA-104) and cells stably transfected with this receptor (FRGPI-16 and FRTM-8). FR function decreased as cellular growth slowed in four of the five cell lines examined. Although cellular folate levels also decreased as cells reached confluence, the total amount of cellular folate in the culture remained constant, suggesting the depleted cellular folate was because of the cell partitioning its pool throughout cell division, not because of decreased FR function. Conversely, there was an inverse association with FR levels and cell growth (r = -0.998 to -0.999, P < 0.05) in cells endogenously expressing FR, with a significant increase in the percentage of total FR located in an intracellular compartment as growth slowed. These results suggest FR function is regulated by cellular requirements for folates but not in response to changing FR levels or cellular levels of this vitamin.
Altered cultured mesangial cell phenotypes from RF/J mice: a spontaneous immune complex mediated glomerulonephritis with progressive glomerulosclerosis.	RF/J mice are a model of spontaneous immune complex mediated glomerulonephritis showing massive extracellular matrix accumulation and progressive glomerulosclerosis. The aim of this study was to investigate whether there is an altered cultured mesangial cell (MC) phenotype in RF/J mice associated with these glomerular changes.
Glucose transport and apoptosis after gene therapy with HSV thymidine kinase.	The relation between tumour metabolism and induction of apoptosis by gene therapy was investigated in a rat Morris hepatoma (MH3924A) model expressing the HSV thymidine kinase (HSVtk) gene. In vivo the amount of glucose transporter (GLUT1 and GLUT3 isoforms) expressing cells was determined in tumours of untreated and treated animals using immunohistochemistry. In vitro uptake studies with 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG), 3-O-methylglucose and thymidine (TdR) and a TUNEL (TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling) assay for the assessment of apoptosis were done immediately and 24 h after treatment of the recombinant cells with different doses of ganciclovir (GCV). Immunohistochemistry revealed a significant increase in GLUT1 in treated tumours which showed enhanced transport activity for FDG. In vitro the FDG and 3-O-methylglucose uptake increased to 186% when compared with that of the non-treated cells immediately after incubation with GCV. However, 24 h later the FDG uptake had declined to its normal level, whereas the accumulation of 3-O-methylglucose remained elevated. The uptake of TdR, which was determined simultaneously, decreased in the acid-insoluble fraction of the cells to 27% and 11%, respectively, immediately and 24 h after therapy, while in the acid-soluble fraction it increased to 229% and to 167%, respectively. Employing the TUNEL technique, 25% of cells were found to be apoptotic 24 h after the termination of GCV treatment. Inhibition of glucose transport by cytochalasin B or competition with deoxyglucose resulted in a 78% (cytochalasin B) and 88% (deoxyglucose) decrease in FDG uptake in the recombinant hepatoma cells and in an increase in the apoptotic cell fraction. It is concluded that inhibition of enhanced glucose transport in GCV-treated cells increased apoptosis. Therefore, enhanced glucose transport seems to represent a stress reaction of tumour cells dedicated for the prevention of cell death.
No direct mitogenic effect of sex hormones on antlerogenic cells detected in vitro.	Deer pedicles, antecedents of antlers, develop from a specialized periosteum (antlerogenic periosteum) which overlies the lateral crest of the deer frontal bone. The initiation of pedicle growth is triggered by androgen hormones. Thus far, it is not known whether pedicle initiation is caused by direct stimulation of androgen hormones on the antlerogenic periosteum or whether some intermediate mechanisms are necessary. The present study took an in vitro approach to investigate whether sex hormones have direct mitogenic effects on primary cultured antlerogenic periosteal cells (antlerogenic cells). Antlerogenic cells were obtained from two 5-month-old red deer calves. The cells were passaged twice and then treated with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and estradiol. The proliferation assays showed that no direct mitogenic effects on the second passage antlerogenic cells could be detected with any of the sex hormone treatments (P > 0.05). Testosterone-binding studies showed that at the second passage, specific testosterone-binding sites were present in the antlerogenic cells. Therefore, we conclude that androgens do not have mitogenic effects on antlerogenic cells in vitro. Our results suggest that pedicle formation may not be the result of direct stimulation of androgen hormones on antlerogenic tissue. Instead, androgen hormones may only allow the process to proceed by increasing the sensitivity of antlerogenic cells to mitogens, e.g., some growth factors.
Effects of diallyl disulfide and other donors of sulfane sulfur on the proliferation of human hepatoma cell line (HepG2).	Effects of potential sulfane sulfur precursors (diallyl disulfide, cystamine, 2-mercaptoethanol disulfide, thiosulfate, immunothiole and pyridoxal phosphate jointly with cystine) on [3H]-thymidine incorporation in human hepatoma (HepG2) cells were studied. Of the tested compounds, diallyl disulfide, cystamine and 2-mercaptoethanol disulfide were found to cause significant inhibition of HepG2 cells proliferation. Moreover, pyridoxal phosphate jointly with cystine suppressed [3H]-thymidine incorporation, but the differences between that system and control cells were insignificant. In the case of thiosulfate, no significant difference was observed. The present study shows that diallyl disulfide, found in garlic, is effective in inhibiting [3H]-thymidine incorporation in human hepatoma HepG2 cell cultures. Similar antiproliferative effects on HepG2 cells are shown by such systems being a source of sulfane sulfur as cystamine or 2-mercaptoethanol disulfide. Thus, it may be concluded that these donors of reactive sulfane sulfur may be responsible for inhibition of the proliferation of HepG2 cells. It is suggested that the observed antiproliferative properties of the investigated compounds are connected with the presence of the highly reactive sulfane sulfur.
Effect of gravity on lymphocyte proliferation.	Reports on postflight examination of lymphocytes from crew members of soviet and american spaceships show a depression of reactivity towards mitogens in vitro. The purpose of this communication is to present experimental evidence that gravity can interfere with lymphocyte activation. Lymphocytes were incubated in the presence of concanavalin A in a centrifuge at 2 and 4 g for four days. This environment causes a significant acceleration of the response to the mitogen. In addition, remarkable differences in the ultrastructure of cells grown at 1 g and 4 g are observed by electron microscopy. This investigation is related to the experiment "Effect of weightlessness on lymphocyte proliferation" experiment which will be performed during the first Spacelab mission.
Regulation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, Akt/protein kinase B, FRAP/mammalian target of rapamycin, and ribosomal S6 kinase 1 signaling pathways by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and stimulating type TSH receptor antibodies in the thyroid gland.	Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) regulates the growth and differentiation of thyrocytes by activating the TSH receptor (TSHR). This study investigated the roles of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), PDK1, FRAP/mammalian target of rapamycin, and ribosomal S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) signaling mechanism by which TSH and the stimulating type TSHR antibodies regulate thyrocyte proliferation and the follicle activities in vitro and in vivo. The TSHR immunoprecipitates exhibited PI3K activity, which was higher in the cells treated with either TSH or 8-bromo-cAMP. TSH and cAMP increased the tyrosine phosphorylation of TSHR and the association between TSHR and the p85alpha regulatory subunit of PI3K. TSH induced a redistribution of PDK1 from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in the cells in a PI3K- and protein kinase A-dependent manner. TSH induced the PDK1-dependent phosphorylation of S6K1 but did not induce Akt/protein kinase B phosphorylation. The TSH-induced S6K1 phosphorylation was inhibited by a dominant negative p85alpha regulatory subunit or by the PI3K inhibitors wortmannin and LY294002. Rapamycin inhibited the phosphorylation of S6K1 in the cells treated with either TSH or 8-bromo-cAMP. The stimulating type TSHR antibodies from patients with Graves disease also induced S6K1 activation, whereas the blocking type TSHR antibodies from patients with primary myxedema inhibited TSH- but not the insulin-induced phosphorylation of S6K1. In addition, rapamycin treatment in vivo inhibited the TSH-stimulated thyroid follicle hyperplasia and follicle activity. These findings suggest an interaction between TSHR and PI3K, which is stimulated by TSH and cAMP and might involve the downstream S6K1 but not Akt/protein kinase B. This pathway may play a role in the TSH/stimulating type TSH receptor antibody-mediated thyrocyte proliferation in vitro and in the response to TSH in vivo.
Inhibition of NF-kappaB sensitizes A431 cells to epidermal growth factor-induced apoptosis, whereas its activation by ectopic expression of RelA confers resistance.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a well known mitogen, but it paradoxically induces apoptosis in cells that overexpress its receptor. We demonstrate for the first time that the EGF-induced apoptosis is accelerated if NF-kappaB is inactivated. To inactivate NF-kappaB, human epidermoid carcinoma cells (A431) that overexpress EGF receptor were stably transfected with an IkappaB-alpha double mutant construct. Under the NF-kappaB-inactivated condition, A431 cells were more sensitive to EGF with decreased cell viability and increased externalization of phosphatidylserine on the cell surface, DNA fragmentation, and activation of caspases (3 and 8 but not 9), typical features of apoptosis. These results were further supported by the potentiation of the growth inhibitory effects of EGF by chemical inhibitors of NF-kappaB (curcumin and sodium salicylate) and the protective role of RelA evidenced by the resistance of A431-RelA cells (stably transfected with RelA) to EGF-induced apoptosis. EGF treatment or ectopic expression of RelA in A431 cells induced DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB (p50 and RelA) and the expression of c-IAP1, a downstream target of NF-kappaB. A431-RelA cells exhibited spontaneous phosphorylation of Akt (a downstream target of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and regulator of NF-kappaB) and EGF treatment stimulated it further. Blocking this basal Akt phosphorylation with LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, did not affect their viability but blocking of EGF-induced phosphorylation of Akt sensitized the otherwise resistant A431-RelA cells to EGF-mediated growth inhibition. Our results favor an anti-apoptotic role for NF-kappaB in the regulation of EGF-induced apoptosis.
Glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide stimulates thymidine incorporation in endothelial cells: role of endothelin-1.	We have previously characterized the receptor for glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIPR) in vascular endothelial cells (EC). Different EC types were found to contain distinct GIPR splice variants. To determine whether activation of the GIPR splice variants resulted in different cellular responses, we examined GIP effects on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), which contain two GIPR splice variants, and compared them with a spontaneously transformed human umbilical vein EC line, ECV 304, which contains four GIPR splice variants. GIP dose-dependently stimulated HUVEC and ECV 304 proliferation as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation. GIP increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) secretion from HUVEC but not from ECV 304. Use of the endothelin B receptor blocker BQ-788 resulted in an inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation in HUVEC but not in ECV 304. These findings suggest that, although GIP increases [3H]thymidine incorporation in both HUVEC and ECV 304, this proliferative response is mediated by ET-1 only in HUVEC. These differences in cellular response to GIP may be related to differences in activation of GIPR splice variants.
Role of tissue repair in survival from s-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine-induced acute renal tubular necrosis in the mouse.	S-(1,2-Dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), a model nephrotoxicant in mice, causes acute tubular necrosis and death at high doses. Our earlier studies revealed that renal tissue repair was critical for survival in mice with DCVC nephrotoxicity. The objective of this study was to investigate if increasing renal tissue repair could protect mice from the lethal outcome of DCVC. Male Swiss Webster (SW) mice were administered a low dose of DCVC (15 mg/kg, ip) 72 h before injection of a normally lethal dose of DCVC (75 mg/kg, ip); this resulted in 100% protection against the lethal effect of DCVC. Because DCVC caused approximately two fold decrease in cytosolic and mitochondrial beta-lyase activity, the possibility that DCVC protection may be caused by decreased bioactivation was examined. Mercuric chloride (HgCl2, 6 mg/kg), a nephrotoxicant with no effect on beta-lyase activity, was administered 96 h before a lethal dose of DCVC. This also resulted in 100% protection from the lethal effect of DCVC. In both studies total glutathione was unchanged at any time after the lethal dose of DCVC was administered, obviating the role of glutathione in protection. In both cases the augmented and sustained tissue repair induced by priming dose and documented by 3H-thymidine pulse labeling and immunocytochemistry for proliferating cell nuclear antigen resulted in 100% survival in spite of the extensive renal injury. These findings suggest that stimulation of renal tubular repair by the priming dose, through augmented cell division, and the resistance of new cells to mechanisms of progression of injury, underlies auto- and heteroprotection against DCVC. The molecular mechanisms may have potential application in pharmacotherapeutic intervention for treatment of acute renal failure.
Phosphorylated JNK mediated apoptosis induced by all trans retinoid acid in human retinoblastoma cell line]	To investigate the mechanism of all trans retinoid acid (ATRA) inhibition of cell growth and induction of apoptosis in human retinoblastoma Y79 cells.
Development and evaluation of a flow-cytometric assay of specific cell-mediated immune response in activated whole blood for the detection of cell-mediated immunity against varicella-zoster virus.	A new assay for the detection of specific cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses is described. Whole blood, diluted 1/10 in medium, was cultured in the presence or the absence of specific antigens. Results were assessed by flow cytometric analysis with or without immunophenotyping to detect proliferating lymphoblasts among cultured cells. Interferon-gamma, IL-10, and IL-5 in culture supernatants are measured by ELISAs. The assay was evaluated using samples from 37 VZV-antibody-positive children with a history of chickenpox and samples from 15 seronegative children without a history of chickenpox; it displayed a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 100% for the detection of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-specific CMI. The intraassay and interassay variations of the new test were lower than with the conventional assay for CMI, detecting thymidine incorporation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Cytokines were detected in only 70% of cultures from VZV-antibody-positive subjects. The cytokine response was restricted to IFN-gamma in most cases. The Flow-cytometric Assay of Specific Cell-mediated Immune response in Activated whole blood (FASCIA) is a precise and accurate yet simple and convenient test that can be readily employed for the examination of single samples as well as for large-scale studies.
Nuclear factor YY1 inhibits transforming growth factor beta- and bone morphogenetic protein-induced cell differentiation.	Smad proteins transduce transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signals that regulate cell growth and differentiation. We have identified YY1, a transcription factor that positively or negatively regulates transcription of many genes, as a novel Smad-interacting protein. YY1 represses the induction of immediate-early genes to TGF-beta and BMP, such as the plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 gene (PAI-1) and the inhibitor of differentiation/inhibitor of DNA binding 1 gene (Id-1). YY1 inhibits binding of Smads to their cognate DNA elements in vitro and blocks Smad recruitment to the Smad-binding element-rich region of the PAI-1 promoter in vivo. YY1 interacts with the conserved N-terminal Mad homology 1 domain of Smad4 and to a lesser extent with Smad1, Smad2, and Smad3. The YY1 zinc finger domain mediates the association with Smads and is necessary for the repressive effect of YY1 on Smad transcriptional activity. Moreover, downregulation of endogenous YY1 by antisense and small interfering RNA strategies results in enhanced transcriptional responses to TGF-beta or BMP. Ectopic expression of YY1 inhibits, while knockdown of endogenous YY1 enhances, TGF-beta- and BMP-induced cell differentiation. In contrast, overexpression or knockdown of YY1 does not affect growth inhibition induced by TGF-beta or BMP. Accordingly, YY1 does not interfere with the regulation of immediate-early genes involved in the TGF-beta growth-inhibitory response, the cell cycle inhibitors p15 and p21, and the proto-oncogene c-myc. In conclusion, YY1 represses Smad transcriptional activities in a gene-specific manner and thus regulates cell differentiation induced by TGF-beta superfamily pathways.
Effects of aging and hypoxia on the proliferation of cultured rat pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells]	To study the effects of aging and hypoxia on the proliferative behavior of cultured pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs).
Ultrastructural analysis of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells in the rat utricular macula.	Ototoxic drugs stimulate cell proliferation in adult rat vestibular sensory epithelia, as does the infusion of transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) plus insulin. We sought to determine whether new hair cells can be regenerated by means of a mitotic pathway. Previously, studies have shown that the nuclei of some newly generated cells are located in the lumenal half of the sensory epithelium, suggesting that some may be newly generated sensory hair cells. The aim of this study was to examine the ultrastructural characteristics of newly proliferated cells after TGFalpha stimulation and/or aminoglycoside damage in the utricular sensory epithelium of the adult rat. The cell proliferation marker tritiated-thymidine was infused, with or without TGFalpha plus insulin, into the inner ears of normal or aminoglycoside-damaged rats for 3 or 7 days by means of osmotic pumps. Autoradiographic techniques and light microscopy were used to identify cells synthesizing DNA. Sections with labeled cells were re-embedded, processed for transmission electron microscopy, and the ultrastructural characteristics of the labeled cells were examined. The following five classes of tritiated-thymidine labeled cells were identified in the sensory epithelium: (1) labeled cells with synaptic specializations that appeared to be newly generated hair cells, (2) labeled supporting cells, (3) labeled leukocytes, (4) labeled cells that we have classified as "active cells" in that they are relatively nondescript but contain massive numbers of polyribosomes, and (5) labeled degenerating hair cells. These findings suggest that new hair cells can be generated in situ by means of a mitotic mechanism in the vestibular sensory epithelium of adult mammals.
In vitro analysis of the antileukemic effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha gene therapy with myeloid progenitor cells: the role of dendritic cells.	We have previously demonstrated that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) gene therapy with transgene-expressing myeloid progenitor cells (32DTNF-alpha) is effective in inhibiting the progression of leukemia with a lethal dose of murine 32Dp210 myeloid leukemia cells. Because TNF-alpha has been shown to induce the activation and maturation of dendritic cells (DCs), we investigated the effect of TNF-alpha secreted by transduced cells (32DTNF-alpha cells) on the activation of DCs and their role in the production of antileukemic cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). We demonstrate that administration of 32DTNF-alpha cells to the mice enhances the allo-stimulatory capacity of the splenic (CD11c+) and bone marrow-derived DCs in both mixed leukocyte response and CTL development. The enhanced allo-stimulatory capacity of splenic DCs from mice injected with 32DTNF-alpha cells correlated with increase in the cell-surface expression of the costimulatory molecules CD40, CD80, CD86, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules (I-Ak), and production of interleukin-12 (IL-12). Furthermore, administration of 32DTNF-alpha cells during immunization with irradiated 32Dp210 leukemia cells augmented the capacity of splenic DCs to stimulate antileukemic CTL response in spleen cells. Collectively, these data suggest that in vivo production of TNF-alpha by transduced cells enhances the phenotypic and functional activation of DCs, resulting in induction of a stronger antileukemic cytotoxic T-cell immune response.
Down-regulation of SKP2 induces apoptosis in lung-cancer cells.	S-Phase kinase associated protein 2 (SKP2), an F-box protein constituting the substrate-recognition subunit of the SCF(SKP2) ubiquitin ligase complex, targets cell-cycle regulators, such as the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(KIP1), for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Our earlier studies indicated frequent amplification and over-expression of the SKP2 gene in primary small-cell lung cancers (SCLCs) and cell lines derived from this type of tumor, and showed that down-regulation of SKP2 expression by means of an antisense oligonucleotide inhibited the growth of SCLC cells in culture (Yokoi et al., Am J Pathol, 161, 207-216, 2002). The antisense effect was confirmed in two cell lines of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that also exhibited over-expression of the gene. In the work reported here, we examined the mechanism(s) responsible for antisense-mediated growth inhibition of SCLC- and NSCLC-derived cultures. SKP2-antisense treatment not only suppressed DNA synthesis, as determined by [(3)H]thymidine incorporation, but also induced spontaneous apoptosis characterized by an increase in the sub-G1 population, fragmentation of nuclei, and activation of caspase-3. Our results suggest that since down-regulation of SKP2 appears to induce apoptosis in lung-cancer cells directly, targeting this molecule could represent a promising new therapeutic approach for this type of cancer, and possibly other tumors that over-express SKP2.
AT1 and AT2 receptors in human glomerular endothelial cells at different passages.	In human adult kidney angiotensin II (AngII) effects are mediated by the AT1 receptor, while the functions of AT2 receptors are mostly unknown. Since AngII regulates endothelial cell growth by AT1 and AT2 receptors, we analysed their functional aspects at different passages in human glomerular endothelial cells (GENC). Semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed the presence of AT1 and AT2 receptors between 2p and 15p cell passages with different levels of expression. In fact, binding studies of different families of displacement curves using AngII, DUP753 (AT1 antagonist), and PD123177 (AT2 antagonist) showed the presence of AT1a and AT2 receptors at 4p-9p while in GENC 2p only the presence of AT2. In terms of mitogenic activity, AngII was unable to stimulate GENC 2p growth. On the contrary, in GENC 4p-9p and 15p a significant thymidine incorporation was observed. This stimulatory effect seemed to be induced also by the concomitant release of PDGF-BB AT1a mediated. In conclusion, AT1a and AT2 receptors are represented in GENC with a different ratio depending upon the cell passage. AngII regulates the mitogenic effect through AT1a receptors (in later cell passages 4p-15p) involving the release of PDGF-BB, while AT2 (in early cell passage 2p) showed a predominant negative growth control.
Clinical value of the flow cytometric method for measuring lymphocyte subset activation: spontaneous activation of T-cell subpopulations is associated with acute GvHD.	Thymidine ((3)H-TdR) incorporation remains the most commonly used method to quantifying T-cell proliferation. This method, however, does not provide information about specific lymphocyte subpopulations responding to different stimuli. In our study, we modified previously described nonradioactive flow-cytometric T-cell activation assay measuring the expression of a CD69+ antigen on T-cell subsets and applied it to analysis of lymphocyte subsets activation/proliferation in children after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). We compared the percentage of spontaneously activated lymphocyte subpopulations (background) and the percentage of PHA-P, PWM, and SEB-stimulated cell subsets from two groups of patients: group 1, children with Graft versus Host Disease (GvHD) and group 2, children without any signs of GvHD at the time of analysis. High rate of spontaneous T-cell subset activation was found in group 1 with CD3+CD8+Ts cells being the most affected cell population. High background activation of Th and B cells correlated with the occurrence of autoimmune phenomena posttransplant. Rapid quantification of CD69+ expression on unstimulated and stimulated T-cell subsets proved to be a valuable method for monitoring children after allogeneic HCT. High proportion of activated, unstimulated Ts cells observed in the GvHD group may underline the critical role of CD3+CD8+ cells in the pathogenesis of GvHD. Thus in future immunosuppressive therapy may be adjusted according to the proportion of activated Ts cells.
YC-1 inhibits proliferation of human vascular endothelial cells through a cyclic GMP-independent pathway.	This study was designed to investigate the effect of YC-1, 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzylindazole, in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation and its underlying mechanism. YC-1 at a range of concentrations (5-50 microM) inhibited DNA synthesis and decreased cell number in cultured HUVEC in a dose- and time-dependent manner. YC-1 was not cytotoxic at these concentrations. [3H]thymidine incorporation and flow cytometry analyses revealed that YC-1 treatment decreased DNA synthesis and arrested the cells at the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle. Western blot analysis demonstrated that YC-1 (5-50 microM) increased the levels of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)-inhibitory proteins (CKIs), p21 and p27, but did not induce any significant changes of cyclins and CDKs. In the YC-1-treated HUVEC, the formation of CDK2-p21 complex, but not CDK2-p27 complex, was increased and the assayable CDK2 kinase activity was decreased. These changes were in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, the formations of CDK4-p21 and CDK4-p27 complex were slightly increased and the assayable CDK4 kinase activity was slightly decreased (if there were any changes). Pretreatment with guanylyl cyclase inhibitors, 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinozalin-1-one (ODQ) and methylene blue, inhibited the YC-1-induced increase of cyclic GMP level, but did not change significantly the magnitude of the YC-1-induced inhibition of thymidine incorporation and cell number in HUVEC. These results indicate that YC-1-induced cell cycle arrest in HUVEC occurred when the cyclin-CDK system was inhibited just as p21 and p27 protein levels were augmented. This YC-1-induced antiproliferation effect in HUVEC is via a cyclic GMP-independent pathway.
Constitutive activation of the neuregulin-1/ErbB receptor signaling pathway is essential for the proliferation of a neoplastic Schwann cell line.	Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) proteins promote Schwann cell survival, differentiation and proliferation during development. High levels of an NRG-like activity are also present in some human peripheral nerve sheath tumors, suggesting that NRG-1 isoforms may be involved in the development of these neoplasms. We examined the expression of NRG-1 and its receptors, the erbB membrane tyrosine kinases, in JS1 cells, a rapidly proliferating line derived from a chemically induced rat malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST). Relative to nontransformed Schwann cells, JS1 cells overexpress the NRG-1 receptor erbB3 and its erbB2 coreceptor; JS1 erbB2 transcripts show no evidence of the activating mutation commonly found in N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced neoplasms. JS1 cells do not express the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), a kinase implicated in the pathogenesis of a major subset of MPNSTs. JS1 cells also express mRNAs encoding multiple alpha and beta isoforms from the glial growth factor and sensory and motor neuron-derived factor NRG-1 subfamilies. Stimulation with NRG-1beta in the presence of forskolin produces a dose-dependent increase in JS1 DNA synthesis. Even in unstimulated JS1 cells, however, erbB2 and erbB3 are constitutively tyrosine phosphorylated. Reducing this constitutive phosphorylation with the specific erbB inhibitor PD158780 markedly impairs JS1 DNA synthesis. These observations support the hypothesis that NRG-1 isoforms and erbB kinases act in an autocrine and/or paracrine fashion to promote mitogenesis in JS1 cells. The absence of EGFR expression in JS1 cells suggests that constitutive activation of the NRG-1/erbB signaling pathway is an alternative means of inducing Schwann cell neoplasia.
In vitro synchronization of mammalian astrocytic cultures by serum deprivation.	The study of the regulation of cell division cycle in vitro requires cell cultures growing in the same phase of the cycle. The procedure by which cells are arrested in specific phases of the cell cycle is termed synchronization. Synchronization is particularly important in the study of astrocyte biology, as its application allows astrocytes to re-enter the cell cycle from a state of quiescence (G(0)), and, under carefully defined experimental conditions, move together into subsequent phases such as the G(1) and S phases. A number of methods have been established to synchronize mammalian cell cultures, including centrifugal elutriation, mitotic shake-off, and chemically induced cell cycle arrest. Yet there are intrinsic limitations associated with these methods. In the present protocol, we describe a simple, reliable, and reversible procedure to synchronize astrocytic cultures from newborn rat brains by serum deprivation. This protocol consists essentially of two parts: (1) proliferation of astrocytes under optimal conditions in vitro until reaching desired confluence; and (2) synchronization of cultures by serum down-shift and arrested in the G(0) phase of the cell cycle. This procedure has recently been extended toward the study of cell cycle control in astroglioma cells and astrocytes from injured adult brains. Since it was also employed in recent precursor cloning studies in developmental biology, this procedure will certainly find increasing use in future research.
Identification of a novel human uridine phosphorylase.	Uridine phosphorylase catalyzes the reversible phosphorylytic cleavage of uridine and deoxyuridine to uracil and ribose- or deoxyribose-1-phosphate. The enzyme has an important role in the metabolism of pyrimidine analogs used in cancer chemotherapy. The cDNA of a novel 317 amino acid human uridine phosphorylase approximately 60% identical to the previously identified human uridine phosphorylase was cloned. The novel enzyme, named uridine phosphorylase-2 (UPase-2), showed broad substrate specificity and accepted uridine, deoxyuridine, and thymidine as well as the two pyrimidine nucleoside analogs 5-fluorouridine and 5-fluoro-2(')-deoxyuridine. The human UPase-2 gene was mapped to chromosome 2q24.1 and the 2.2-kb mRNA was predominantly expressed in kidney. The mouse UPase-2 cDNA was also identified and shown to be predominantly expressed in liver. The identification of a novel uridine phosphorylase with broad substrate specificity is important for studies on both nucleoside metabolism as well as for studies on the pharmacological mechanisms of therapeutic pyrimidine nucleoside analogs.
Thymidine and hypoxanthine protection patterns of the folic acid-enhanced synergies for combinations of trimetrexate plus a polyglutamylatable inhibitor of purine or thymidylate synthesis against human ileocecal HCT-8 cells.	In order to examine the intracellular locus of the folic acid (PteGlu)-enhanced synergies of trimetrexate (TMQ) plus the thymidylate synthase (TS) inhibitor, raltitrexed (RTX), and TMQ plus the glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT) inhibitor, AG2034, comprehensive protection studies with thymidine (dThd) and hypoxanthine (HX) were conducted in a 96-well plate cell growth inhibition (sulforhodamine B) assay. Current modeling techniques were extended to characterize these protection patterns involving multiple-agent interaction. Wild-type human ileocecal HCT-8 cells and DW2, a subline deficient in folylpoly-gamma-glutamate synthetase (FPGS) were individually treated for 96 h with TMQ, AG2034 and a 1:1 mixture of TMQ:AG2034 or with TMQ, RTX, and a 1:1 mixture of TMQ:RTX in the presence of PteGlu (2.3 or 40 micro M) and the protection agents (10 micro M dThd and/or 100 micro M HX). Drug treatments were randomly assigned to wells. Both isobols and 3-dimensional concentration-effect surfaces were used to assess the nature and the intensity of drug interactions. The structural Hill model was fitted to data with weighted non-linear regression for most cases. A so-called 'double Hill' model was sometimes more appropriate when a plateau in the middle of the concentration-effect curve was found. In HCT-8 and DW2 cells at 2.3 and 40 micro M PteGlu, inhibition of DHFR by TMQ induced antithymidylate and antipurine effects; AG2034 and RTX selectively inhibited de novo purine or thymidine synthesis, respectively. dThd protection increased the PteGlu-enhancement of the TMQ + AG2034 synergy, whereas HX protection increased the PteGlu-enhancement of the TMQ + RTX synergy. The PteGlu-enhanced synergies of TMQ + AG2034 and TMQ + RTX occur primarily through inhibition of purine synthesis and inhibition of thymidylate synthesis, respectively. These results further substantiate the hypothesis that the nonpolyglutamylatable DHFR inhibitor, TMQ, acts as a modulator by decreasing the protection by PteGlu of cells against the polyglutamylatable AG2034 and RTX.
Anti-metastatic effects of fuzhengfangaitang on human fibrosarcoma cells HT1080.	Fuzhengfangaitang (FZFAT) is used to inhibit recurrence and metastasis of cancer in the clinic. By applying an in vitro invasion assay model, we examined the antimetastatic effect of FZFAT. In the 3H-thymidine incorporation assay, FZFAT-treated groups showed a decreased DNA synthesis rate compared with the control group (F-value 87.42981, P-value 2.02E-08, F0.05(3,12) 3.4903). Gelatin zymogram assay showed that FZFAT decreased the gelatinolytic activity of matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) from human fibrosarcoma cell line (HT-1080), at concentrations of 200 and 400 microg/ml. In the MMPs dot blotting assay, FZFAT inhibited the expression of MMP-1 at concentration of 100 microg/ml, and MMP-9 at concentrations of 200 and 400 microg/ml. Western blots for AP-1 and its signal mediators Erk and JNK showed that expression of Fos and JNK were decreased by the addition of FZFAT at 300 microg/ml, whereas Erk was not. Therefore it was evident that FZFAT regulated the expression of MMP-9 through its transcription factor AP-1 and the signal mediator JNK. We examined whether FZFAT inhibited the invasion of HT-1080 cells through matrigel precoated transwell chambers. The results showed that FZFAT effectively inhibited the invasion of HT-1080 cells as compared with the control phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (+PMA) groups (t-value 5.871584, P-value 0.013901, t0.05(2) 2.919987). From our research, part of the mechanism underlying the antimetastatic effect of FZFAT has been elucidated in vitro.
Evidence that estrogens modulate activity and increase the number of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D receptors in osteoblast-like cells (ROS 17/2.8).	A detailed understanding of the mechanism of action of estrogen on bones is still lacking. The present study was designed to examine possible modulation by 17 beta-estradiol (E2) on the effects of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3] and on vitamin D receptors (VDR) in the ROS 17/2.8 osteoblast-like cell line. Cells were grown in phenol-red free medium supplemented with charcoal-stripped fetal calf serum (FCS). Total cellular VDR were measured in cell homogenates after extraction with a KCl hypertonic buffer. VDR-binding capacity doubled in the presence of 10 nM E2 (16.2 +/- 2.3 vs. 7.0 +/- 1.3 fmol/mg protein, respectively; P less than 0.01), while the Kd for 1,25-(OH)2D3 did not change (approximately 0.1 nM). Tamoxifen alone had no effect on VDR, while it completely abolished the E2-induced increase in VDR, indicating that the effect was specific for E2 and estrogen receptor mediated. 1,25-(OH)2D3 inhibited cell proliferation, determined by [3H] thymidine incorporation to DNA, in a dose-dependent fashion between 0.01-100 nM. The inhibitory effect of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on cell proliferation was significantly augmented in the presence of E2 (10 nM). 1,25-(OH)2D3 increased osteocalcin secretion to the medium by the cells in a dose-dependent fashion between 0.01-100 nM. In the presence of E2 (10 nM), maximal osteocalcin secretion in response to 1,25-(OH)2D3 was 3.5-fold higher than that in response to 1,25-(OH)2D3 alone. These results indicate that E2 modulates 1,25-(OH)2D3 activity in osteoblast-like cells, and that this effect can be attributed to an increase in VDR.
Protein kinases and the androgen-induced proliferation of accessory sex organ smooth muscle.	The possible role of second messenger systems in androgen-dependent smooth muscle proliferation was investigated. Focusing on the hormone-sensitive guinea pig seminal vesicle, we analyzed changes in protein kinase C (PKC) and cAMP-dependent type I and II protein kinases during the androgen-dependent smooth muscle proliferation of puberty, as well as in the transition to the nonproliferative state of the adult. The androgenic sensitivity of the cAMP-dependent type I and II protein kinases and the cAMP-dependent phosphorylations of soluble muscle proteins did not correlate with the qualitative change in the androgenic sensitivity of the prepubertal vs. adult animals. In contrast to the cAMP-dependent protein kinases, regulation of the soluble and particulate forms of PKC corresponded to the androgen-induced smooth muscle proliferation. That is, in the seminal vesicle muscle of prepubertal castrated animals, androgen treatment reduced both the soluble and particulate forms of PKC during the increase in smooth muscle DNA synthesis, and in adult seminal vesicle smooth muscle, which was resistant to androgen-induced proliferation, both forms of the enzyme were resistant to androgenic stimulation. It is concluded that PKC may be a component of an autocrine mitogenic mechanism involved in the coupling and uncoupling of androgen-induced smooth muscle proliferation.
Type I and type II insulin-like growth factor receptors and their function in human Ewing's sarcoma cells.	Binding studies using recombinant human 125I-labelled insulin-like growth factor I ([125I]IGF-I) revealed IGF-I receptors in three Ewing's sarcoma cell lines with Kd ranging from 74 x 10(-12) M to 100 x 10(-12) M and Bmax = 36-63 fmol/mg cell protein. [125I]IGF-I binding was displaced by IGF-I, IGF-II and insulin with IC50 values of 1.5 nM, 6.3 nM and 0.7 microM respectively. Recombinant human [125I]IGF-II radioligand-binding assays in the cell lines disclosed specific binding sites for IGF-II with Kd = (110-175) x 10(-12) M and Bmax varying from 21 fmol/mg to 72 fmol/mg cell protein. Neither IGF-I nor insulin displaced [125I]IGF-II binding. IGF-I was found to increase basal glucose transport by maximally 1.5 times with EC50 = 0.9 nM IGF-I. The efficacy and potency of IGF-II on glucose uptake were comparable to those of IGF-I whereas insulin was ineffective. IGF-I and IGF-II also provoked stimulation of glycogen synthesis in Ewing's sarcoma cells. The maximal glycogenic response was reached at 0.01 microM IGF-I and 0.1 microM IGF-II, the EC50 value being approximately 1 nM IGF-I and 2 nM IGF-II. Insulin did not significantly influence glycogen formation. IGF-I and IGF-II but not insulin increased DNA synthesis in Ewing's sarcoma cells. The maximal mitogenic response was obtained with 10 nM IGF-I or IGF-II with an EC50 value of about 0.7 nM for both peptides. alpha-IR-3, a monoclonal antibody specific for the IGF type I receptor, effectively blocked IGF-I- and IGF-II-mediated metabolic responses. In conclusion, the data show that IGF-I and IGF-II induce rapid and long-term biological responses in Ewing's sarcoma cells exclusively through interaction with IGF type I receptors.
Immortal rat hippocampal cell lines exhibit neuronal and glial lineages and neurotrophin gene expression.	Clonal cell lines of rat embryonic hippocampal origin have been developed by using retroviral transduction of temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large tumor antigens. The cell lines undergo morphological differentiation at the nonpermissive temperature and in response to differentiating agents. Immunocytochemical analysis indicates that various lines are derived from progenitors of neuronal, glial, and bipotential lineages. Selected neuronal lines differentiate in response to diffusible factors released by primary glia, and one line of glial lineage supports the maturation of primary neurons in culture. Selected cell lines exhibit different patterns of neurotrophin gene expression that change after differentiation. In some lines, the relative levels of neurotrophin 3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor message expression may reflect the developmental or regional differential expression seen for these genes in the hippocampus in situ. These hippocampal cell lines, which express markers indicative of commitment to neuronal or glial lineages, are valuable for studies of development and plasticity in these lineages, as well as for studies of the regulation of neural trophic interactions.
Detection of functional interferon alpha receptors in human neuroendocrine tumor cell lines using a new monoclonal antibody.	While first described as antiviral agents, interferons (IFNs) exhibit significant antiproliferative and antitumor effects as well. IFN alpha has been successfully used in clinical trials to treat several malignancies, including leukemias and certain solid tumors. While many cell types have been studied for IFN alpha receptor expression, very little is known about receptor expression on human neuroendocrine cells. Using a novel anti-IFN alpha receptor monoclonal antibody, we examined IFN alpha receptor expression in 10 human cell lines derived from tumors of neuroendocrine origin, including neuroblastoma, neuroepithelioma and small cell lung carcinoma. All cell lines studied displayed a similar pattern of IFN alpha receptor expression and 5 of 8 cell lines demonstrated reduced thymidine incorporation following IFN alpha treatment. Addition of exogenous IFN alpha caused a decrease in IFN alpha receptor expression, while differentiating agents, such as phorbol esters and retinoic acid, induced an increase in receptor number without altering receptor affinity.
Potentiation of antibacterial activity of azithromycin and other macrolides by normal human serum.	The interaction of azithromycin with normal human serum was examined in relation to serum protein binding, MIC, and kinetics of killing of bacteria. While the binding of azithromycin to serum proteins is low (8.5% at a concentration of 0.01 mM in 95% serum), the presence of 40% serum during the MIC test decreased MICs by 26-fold for serum-resistant Escherichia coli and 15-fold for Staphylococcus aureus. Erythromycin had a similar but lesser effect, while roxithromycin was less active against S. aureus in the presence of serum. The rate of killing of E. coli and S. aureus by azithromycin was increased in the presence of serum. The enhancement of antibiotic activity by serum was pH independent, and heat inactivation and preabsorption with homologous bacteria failed to inhibit enhancement by serum. The macromolecular incorporation of [3H]thymidine by E. coli continuously exposed to 2 micrograms of azithromycin per ml (0.25x the MIC) and 40% serum was decreased by 80% at pH 7.8 and by 48% at pH 7.2, while azithromycin alone failed to inhibit incorporation. Inhibition of nucleic acid biosynthesis at pH 7.2 in the presence of serum was also detected with sub-MICs of erythromycin, norfloxacin, and gentamicin but not roxithromycin. A diffusible serum factor was shown to interact with azithromycin to inhibit the growth of E. coli in an agar diffusion assay to detect antibiotic-serum synergy.
Tumor necrosis factor as an autocrine growth factor for neuroblastoma.	Recombinant tumor necrosis factor (TNF) stimulates the proliferation of two neuroblastoma cell lines, SKNFI and SKNBE, in both serum-free medium and fetal calf serum-supplemented medium but has no effect in medium without insulin. This effect is very similar with TNF doses ranging from 5 to 500 ng/ml but depends on the duration of treatment; when cells are treated for 168 h with TNF, the maximal index of proliferation is observed between 120 and 144 h of treatment. The two neuroblastoma cell lines express type A and type B TNF receptors and contain TNF protein; however, TNF is undetectable in culture supernatants. Treatment of the two neuroblastoma cell lines with a rabbit polyclonal antibody to TNF for 96 h fully inhibits [3H]thymidine incorporation; less than 5% viable cells are left in the samples after treatment. A combination of two monoclonal antibodies against type A and type B TNF receptors also inhibits over 85% of the [3H]thymidine incorporation by the two cell lines after 96 h of treatment; the use of a single antibody has a partial effect, suggesting that both receptors are functional on the neuroblastoma cell lines. Taken together, these results show that TNF is an autocrine growth factor for the two neuroblastoma cell lines SKNFI and SKNBE. The results described above have been confirmed on two other neuroblastoma cell lines, IRM32 and CLB-PE.
Altered expression of cell cycle related genes including c-myb in a subclone of HL-60 that exhibits reversible differentiation.	A differentiation resistant subclone of HL-60, DMSOr, was removed from the selective pressure of dimethyl sulfoxide and characterized with a new stable phenotype of reversible differentiation. DMSOr cells, when treated with 1.25% dimethyl sulfoxide, differentiated in a manner similar to the parental HL-60 with respect to morphological changes, increase in superoxide production, and withdrawal from cell cycle. Upon removal of the dimethyl sulfoxide at points normally associated with commitment to terminal differentiation, DMSOr reverted to the immature phenotype. This demonstrates an uncoupling of the morphological, functional, and antiproliferative effects of differentiation from commitment to terminal differentiation. Associated with the reversible phenotype of DMSOr was an altered expression of the c-myb oncogene. In HL-60, c-myb expression was down-regulated by 72 h and completely diminished by 144 h. Northern blot analysis of DMSOr demonstrated greater levels of expression of c-myb at 72 and 144 h. Similar results were shown with histone H4, cdc2 kinase, and, to a lesser extent, ornithine decarboxylase. The c-myb related gene B-myb did not show altered regulation during differentiation. The results suggest that altered expression of genes that control cell cycle may be critical for the reversible phenotype of DMSOr.
Stable expression of HB24, a diverged human homeobox gene, in T lymphocytes induces genes involved in T cell activation and growth.	A diverged homeobox gene, HB24, which is known to be induced following lymphocyte activation, was introduced into Jurkat T cells under the control of a constitutive promoter. Stable transfectants of HB24 were established that expressed high levels of HB24 mRNA and possessed an altered phenotype suggestive of activated T cells. A number of genes known to be induced following T cell activation and associated with cell growth were increased in the transfectants, including c-fos, c-myc, c-myb, HLA-DR, lck, NF-kappa B, interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 receptor alpha (IL-2R alpha). Analysis of IL-2R alpha expression by transient transfection of IL-2R alpha promoter constructs into the HB24 transfectants revealed constitutive expression (about 60% of phytohemagglutinin- and phorbol ester-activated Jurkat cells) that was dependent on the kappa B site in the IL-2R alpha promoter. Furthermore, as a consequence of the increased HB24 mRNA levels, the Jurkat HB24 transfectants proliferated more rapidly than control cell lines. Thus, stable expression of HB24 confers an activation phenotype on a human T cell line, implicating this gene as an important transcriptional factor during T cell activation and growth.
Effects of selective denervation and nerve growth factor on activity-mediated growth of rat parotid gland.	A dietary change from all liquid to solid food is followed by an average increase of 200% in [3H]thymidine uptake into the parotid gland of rat. However, removal of either the parasympathetic (Px) or the sympathetic (Sx) innervation to the parotid gland prior to the dietary change resulted in a partial inhibition of the increase; values for the parasympathectomized gland were 51% of those of the innervated gland, and values of the sympathectomized parotid gland were 42% of those of the innervated gland. Removal of both autonomic nerves caused a complete inhibition. Initiation of nerve growth factor (NGF) injection (1 microgram/kg body wt, two times daily for the 2 days of chow refeeding) at the time of chow refeeding had no effect on completely or partially denervated glands, and thymidine values for the denervated parotid gland of rats given NGF did not differ statistically from those of rats not given NGF. With parasympathectomy, sympathectomy, and complete denervation, weight of parotid gland was decreased from that of innervated glands, and administration of NGF had no effect on the denervation-induced decreases. The data show that both branches of the innervation to parotid gland must be intact to ensure a maximal increase in thymidine uptake with the dietary change from liquid to solid food. The level of the enzyme, beta 1-4 galactosyltransferase, involved in proliferation, also depended on the presence of intact nerves. Enzyme activity of innervated parotid gland showed an average increase of 200% with chow refeeding of rats previously on liquid diet, but with Px, the average increase was 51% of that of the innervated parotid, and with Sx, it was 41%. NGF administration did not cause any change in levels of this enzyme in any Px or PxSx parotid gland and only a small change in Sx parotid; it did increase levels of this enzyme in parotid of rats without submandibular-sublingual glands.
Isolation and purification of human endometrial stromal and glandular cells using immunomagnetic microspheres.	Isolation of pure preparations of the different cell populations of human endometrium is a prerequisite for studies of in-vitro function. Sieving of dispersed endometrial cells, followed by adsorption onto immunomagnetic microspheres coated with antibody to Thy-1 was used to separate glandular and stromal cells. The purity of these cell populations was checked with antibodies to cytokeratin and Thy-1. The stromal cells were 98% pure and 90% viable, gland cells were 82% pure with 76% viability. The purified cells were able to proliferate in vitro as shown by thymidine incorporation.
Colonic cell proliferation and growth fraction in young, adult and old rats.	Colonic epithelial proliferation was investigated in three groups of rats, aged 3, 60 and 121 weeks. As reported in previous work, the crypts were markedly longer in the young rats, and the number of labelled cells per crypt was significantly greater. There was an upward movement of the marker positions derived from the distribution of labelled cells within the crypt of the young rats. This was a consequence of the increased crypt length, so that the growth fraction, as expressed as a percentage of crypt length, was the same. The proliferative changes between the young rats and the other aged rats were therefore effected by altering the size of the crypts, while maintaining the kinetic organisation. There was no evidence of any proliferative changes or changes in the growth fraction when the colons of the old rats were compared with those of the 60 week old rats.
Prognostic value of proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression in chronic lymphoid leukemia.	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a usually indolent disease that can assume an aggressive clinical course in some patients. To develop assays that would be predictive of how a particular patient's disease would evolve, we studied the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) by Western blotting in 40 patients with CLL. The concentration of PCNA, a cofactor for delta DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, is indicative of the proliferative state of the cell. Significantly lower PCNA levels were observed in earlier stage CLL when compared with more advanced disease. The leukemic cell proliferative rate, assessed by lymphocyte doubling time and flow cytometry, also correlated significantly with the level of PCNA expression. These results suggest that a high level of PCNA in the cells of CLL patients at presentation identifies a subgroup of patients whose CLL cells have a higher proliferative activity and who may, therefore, have a potentially shorter survival.
A new method for estimating population doubling time of vertebrate cells.	Based upon the fact that the amount of DNA doubles after each cycle, a technique was developed in which the population doubling time for cell cultures was determined from the ratio of its DNA content to [3H]thymidine incorporation under conditions in which cell numbers cannot be readily determined. This technique may be useful in determining what proportion the sample is of the total cell population.
Purification and refolding of recombinant human IGF II from silkworms infected with recombinant Bombyx mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus.	We have reported that insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II) was produced as a fusion protein in Bombyx mori (silkworm) larval bodies infected with recombinant B. mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus [J. Gen. Virol., 68, 2599-2606 (1987)]. In this study, the purification of IGF II from the infected silkworms is reported. The fusion protein was extracted with 6.0 M guanidine-HCl from the infected larval bodies homogenized in water. The use of organic solvents to remove the impurities, such as lipid derived from the larval bodies, was a very effective method of purification. IGF II was released from the partially purified fusion protein by treatment with CNBr, purified by HPLC, and refolded by air-oxidization. Refolded IGF II had an identical primary structure including disulfide bonds and showed identical thymidine uptake stimulation activity with human IGF II. Furthermore, protein disulfide-isomerase was shown to be able to refold scrambled IGF II rapidly.
CD19: lowering the threshold for antigen receptor stimulation of B lymphocytes.	Lymphocytes must proliferate and differentiate in response to low concentrations of a vast array of antigens. The requirements of broad specificity and sensitivity conflict because the former is met by low-affinity antigen receptors, which precludes achieving the latter with high-affinity receptors. Coligation of the membrane protein CD19 with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes decreased the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation by two orders of magnitude. B lymphocytes proliferated when approximately 100 antigen receptors per cell, 0.03 percent of the total, were coligated with CD19. The B cell resolves its dilemma by having an accessory protein that enables activation when few antigen receptors are occupied.
Endothelin stimulates protein synthesis in smooth muscle cells.	The present work was carried out to assess the effect of endothelin on the relative synthesis of protein, RNA, and DNA in confluent rat aortic smooth muscle cells (SMC) derived from Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats maintained under serum-free medium in the presence or absence of insulin, transferrin, and selenium. Insulin stimulated protein synthesis by 42%. Endothelin (1 x 10(-7) M) rapidly induced protein synthesis by 22% (-insulin) and 30% (+insulin). Prior treatment of SMC for 4 h with endothelin resulted in 50% (-insulin) and 38% (+insulin) increase in protein synthesis. The stimulatory effect of endothelin on protein synthesis could be partially blocked by 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine, a protein kinase C inhibitor. Atrial natriuretic factor had no effect on either the basal protein synthesis or protein synthesis stimulated by endothelin. Furthermore, endothelin stimulated RNA synthesis by twofold but had no effect on DNA synthesis in SMC derived from WKY rats. In contrast, SMC derived from spontaneously hypertensive rats showed increased DNA synthesis and cell growth after endothelin stimulation. These studies show that this hormone may play a pivotal role in the development of vascular hypertrophy in hypertension.
The germinative zone produces the most cortical astrocytes after neuronal migration in the developing mammalian brain.	The origin of astrocytes of the mouse neocortex during the fetal and early postnatal periods as determined by immunocytological, autoradiographic, electron microscopic and antimitotic methods is described. Most astrocytes destined for the white matter and the infragranular cortical layers are derived from the transformation of radial glial cells between P0 and P10 with an inside-out pattern. This cell metamorphosis is not directly preceded by mitosis and involves the activation of the radial glial lysosomal apparatus. In opposition to recent hypotheses, our findings suggest that most astrocytes destined for the supragranular cortical layers are produced in the germinative zone after the migration of the infragranular neurons and themselves migrate afterwards to the upper cortex between E16 and the first postnatal days. These astrocytes do not display an intermediate stage of the radial glial cell and do not participate in the pattern of appearance of the deeper astrocytes. This second step of astrocytogenesis is a condition for normal cytoarchitectonic development and the maintenance of the supragranular layers, since the deprivation of the astrocytic equipment of the supragranular layers by an antimitotic drug drastically reduces the number of supragranular neurons.
The interaction of heparin and basic fibroblast growth factor on collagen synthesis in 21-day fetal rat calvariae.	We examined the interactions of the glycosaminoglycan, heparin, and recombinant human basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) on collagen synthesis in 21-day fetal rat calvariae. In calvariae treated for 96 h, heparin (25 micrograms/ml) and bFGF (10(-9) M) inhibited collagenase-digestible protein (CDP) labeling by 52 and 60% of control, respectively, and the combination further inhibited CDP labeling. Inhibition of CDP labeling by heparin (25 micrograms/ml) or bFGF (10(-9), 10(-8) M) was similar in the presence or absence of aphidicolin (30 microM) an inhibitor of cell replication. Heparin selectively inhibited CDP labeling in the osteoblast rich central bone but bFGF alone or in combination with heparin inhibited CDP labeling both in the periosteum and central bone. Heparin and bFGF alone decreased steady state levels of alpha 1(I)procollagen messenger RNA (mRNA) at 24 h and the combination further decreased mRNA levels. A high concentration of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1, 3 x 10(-8) M) reversed the inhibitory effect of heparin on DNA synthesis and CDP labeling. In contrast, IGF-1 could not reverse the inhibitory effects of bFGF on CDP labeling but enhanced the stimulatory effects of bFGF on thymidine incorporation into DNA. We conclude that the inhibitory effects of heparin and bFGF on CDP are independent of effects on cell replication. We further conclude that both heparin and bFGF inhibit collagen synthesis at a pretranslational site since they decreased procollagen mRNA levels in osteoblasts. However, the inhibition of collagen synthesis by heparin and bFGF appears to involve divergent pathways since exogenous IGF-1 could overcome the effect of heparin but not bFGF on collagen synthesis.
Mutants of human insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II). Expression and characterization of truncated IGF II and of two naturally occurring variants.	Insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II) and four structural analogs, constructed by site-directed mutagenesis, were expressed as protein A fusion proteins in Escherichia coli BL21pLysS cells, cleaved with cyanogen bromide and purified by affinity chromatography and HPLC. Two mutants (Ser29 substituted by Arg-Leu-Pro-Gly, and Ser33 substituted by Cys-Gly-Asp) represent two naturally occurring variants of IGF II. The other two mutants, (7-67)IGF II and (9-67)IGF II, are truncated at the amino-terminus in analogy to the naturally occurring des(1-3)IGF I ('truncated IGF I'). These mutants were tested for their binding affinities to type-1 and type-2 IGF receptors, to IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) and for their stimulation of thymidine incorporation into DNA. The affinities of the Ser29 and Ser33 mutants to the type-1 IGF receptor were 85% and 39%, respectively, compared to wild-type IGF II, those of (7-67)IGF II and (9-67)IGF II 96% and 15%, respectively. The potencies of the Ser33 and the (9-67) mutant to stimulate thymidine incorporation into DNA correlated closely with the affinities to the type-1 IGF receptor, whereas the bioavailability of the Ser29 mutant was lower and that of the (7-67) mutant higher than the type-1 receptor binding, possibly due to interferences with endogenously secreted IGFBPs. The affinities of the Ser29 and Ser33 mutants to the type-2 IGF receptor were 110% and 71%, respectively, those of the two truncated mutants 25% and 23%, respectively. The affinity of the Ser29 mutant to IGFBP-3 was increased to 171%, whereas those of the Ser33 mutant and the two truncated mutants were reduced (34%, 10% and 19%, respectively).
Ca2+ channel modulation and kinase-C activation in a pituitary cell line: induction of immediate early genes and inhibition of proliferation.	We have studied the interaction between dihydropyridine (DHP) Ca2+ modulators and the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) on whole cell Ca2+ currents, 45Ca2+ uptake, immediate early gene (IEG) expression, and proliferation in the rat pituitary GH4C1 cell line. When short (3- to 5-msec) depolarizing voltage clamp steps were used to activate L-type Ca2+ channels, the DHP Ca2+ agonist (-)Bay K 8644 markedly enhanced Ca2+ entry by slowing channel closing upon repolarization. In contrast, the Ca2+ agonist induced only small and inconsistent increases in c-fos mRNA and did not measurably increase NGFI-A. Ca2+ channel activation by depolarization with 50 mM KCl in the presence of (-)Bay K 8644 induced large increases in 45Ca2+ uptake, but failed to markedly induce either of the IEGs. The phorbol ester PMA did not alter T- or L-type Ca2+ current or 45Ca2+ uptake by GH4C1 cells, but triggered large increases in both c-fos and NGFI-A mRNA. In combination, PMA and (-)Bay K 8644 acted synergistically to increase mRNAs for both IEGs. The effect of the DHPs was stereospecific; (+)Bay K 8644, a Ca2+ antagonist, inhibited PMA-induced increases in c-fos and NGFI-A mRNAs. Both PMA and (-)Bay K 8644 inhibited the proliferation of GH4C1 cells, measured by cell count or [3H]thymidine incorporation. The inhibition by the Ca2+ agonist was stereoselective and approximately additive to that of PMA. These results indicate that the expression of c-fos IEG and that of NGFI-A IEG are differentially regulated by separate second messenger pathways in GH4C1 cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of nerve growth factor on cyclocytidine-induced growth responses of sympathectomized parotid or parotid of partially desalivated rat.	Cyclocytidine (CC), a potent antitumor agent, caused a 2.4- to 3.9-fold increase in [3H]thymidine uptake of rat parotid gland after 3 days of daily administration of the CC in a dose of 500 mg/kg body weight. Gland weight also was increased. Ablation of the submandibular-sublingual glands prior to initiation of the CC regimen prevented the usual CC-induced increase in [3H]thymidine uptake but this inhibition was partially reversed when nerve growth factor (NGF) was administered with the CC; values for [3H]thymidine uptake into parotid DNA were 81, 54, and 73% of those of glands of intact CC-treated rats. Submandibular gland ablation did not prevent the usual CC-induced increase in parotid size, and administration of NGF had no effect. Sympathectomy of the salivary glands also inhibited the thymidine increase in parotid gland usually induced by CC but in addition it also inhibited the usual CC-induced increase in gland weight. NGF, however, failed to reverse the effects of sympathectomy on [3H]thymidine uptake or gland size: both remained at the same level observed in sympathectomized parotid not given NGF.
Long-term erythropoiesis from constant numbers of CD34+ cells in serum-free cultures initiated with highly purified progenitor cells from human bone marrow.	To directly study the biological properties of purified hematopoietic colony-forming cell precursors, cells with a CD34+ CD45RAlo CD71lo phenotype were purified from human bone marrow using density separation and fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and were cultured in serum-free culture medium supplemented with various cytokines. In the presence of interleukin 3 (IL-3), IL-6, erythropoietin, and mast cell growth factor (a c-kit ligand), cell numbers increased approximately 10(6)-fold over a period of 4 wk, and the percentage of cells that expressed transferrin receptors (CD71) increased from less than 0.1% at day 0 to greater than 99% at day 14. Interestingly, the absolute number of CD34+ CD71lo cells did not change during culture. When CD34+ CD71lo cells were sorted from expanded cultures and recultured, extensive cell production was repeated, again without significant changes in the absolute number of cells with the CD34+ CD71lo phenotype that were used to initiate the (sub)cultures. These results document that primitive hematopoietic cells can generate progeny without an apparent decrease in the size of a precursor cell pool.
Teratogenic and macromolecular synthesis inhibitory effects of trimethylamine on mouse embryos in culture.	Trimethylamine (TMA) is an aliphatic amine, and its blood levels can increase after ingestion of certain foods, such as fish, and during disease states, such as chronic renal failure. We recently reported that TMA can inhibit fetal development in vivo and in vitro in mice. The present studies were done to find out if the inhibitory effects of TMA on embryonic development are caused by a decrease in macromolecular synthesis, using mouse embryo cultures as the experimental model. At a submaximally toxic concentration (0.75mM), TMA inhibited the growth of embryos to approximately 70% of control and caused neural-tube defects in 73% of embryos. By 42 h of culture, DNA, RNA, and protein content of TMA-treated embryos were approximately 50% of the control values. Embryotoxic effects of TMA were not caused by changes in pH and osmolarity of the culture media. The inhibitory effects of TMA on embryonic growth were time dependent and apparent at 2-4 h of culture. The inhibition of growth was accompanied by a decrease in the incorporation of tritium-labeled thymidine, uridine, and leucine into DNA, RNA, and proteins, respectively. Thiols (L- and D-cysteine, glutathione) and the antioxidant L-ascorbic acid did not cause significant antagonism of embryotoxic effects of TMA. It is concluded that TMA exerts teratogenic effects on mouse embryos in culture and inhibits their growth by reducing macromolecular synthesis; these effects may not involve glutathione depletion or generation of free radicals.
In vitro protein synthesis is affected by the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid in Azospirillum brasilense.	The effects of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) on growth and protein, DNA and RNA synthesis of Azospirillum brasilense Cd were studied. At a concentration of 1 mM, 2,4-D inhibited cell growth, an effect that was reversed either by transferring bacteria to a control (2,4-D-free) medium or to a 2,4-D-treated medium supplemented with polyamines. The herbicide also affected in vitro protein synthesis, either when Azospirillum brasilense Cd's own cellular mRNA or an artificial mRNA was used. This effect was also reversed by the addition of polyamines to the 2,4-D-treated medium. Similar results were observed when DNA synthesis was studied in synchronous cultures. Taking into account the effects of this herbicide on animal cells (V.A. Rivarola and H.F. Balegno, Toxicology, 68 (1991) 109) we postulate that the mechanism of action of 2,4-D is similar on both procaryotic and eucaryotic cells, probably acting through the polyamine metabolism.
Effects of ethanol on DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in rat astrocyte cultures.	Brain growth retardation is a major feature of the fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Insulin and insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and IGF-II) exert significant growth-promoting effects on the central nervous system (CNS). The present study examined the effects of ethanol and its interactions with growth factors on the incorporation of labeled precursors into DNA, RNA, and protein in primary astrocyte cultures prepared from term fetal rats. Cultures were exposed to ethanol for 18hr in serum-free medium before measuring nucleoside or amino acid incorporation into acid-precipitable cell constituents. Under basal conditions, ethanol induced dose-dependent changes in the rates of incorporation of tritiated thymidine, uridine, and valine. The fraction of the total thymidine uptake that was incorporated into DNA was reduced in the presence of 100 and 200 mM ethanol. Effects on uridine and valine incorporation paralleled cell uptake. Insulin (10(-6) M) and IGF-I (10(-9) M) increased (p less than 0.01) incorporation of radiolabeled thymidine, uridine, and valine. Analysis of variance indicated highly significant interactions between ethanol and the effects of growth factors on incorporation of both nucleosides and valine. Interference with the action of neurotrophic factors may be a significant factor in fetal brain growth retardation associated with maternal ethanol ingestion.
Creation of an autocrine model of insulin-like growth factor-I action in transfected FRTL-5 cells.	Although there is much evidence that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is delivered to its target tissues via the circulation from distal sites of synthesis, many other observations suggest that it is synthesized in or near its target tissues and acts by autocrine and/or paracrine modalities. Studies of the mechanisms of such local actions, however, have been problematic, because in vivo studies of a single tissue are technically difficult and confounded by many variables, whereas in vitro studies of autocrine/paracrine actions have been limited by low levels of IGF-I expression and/or lack of dramatic or clearly defined responses to IGF-I. We, therefore, set about to create IGF-I expression in FRTL-5 cells, a diploid nontransformed line of rat thyroid follicular cells that have been extensively studied as a model of TSH action. The modest increase in thymidine incorporation stimulated by TSH in wild type FRTL-5 cells is markedly increased in the presence of exogenous IGF-I. By transfecting these cells with a chimeric IGF-IA gene, driven either by the mouse metallothionein-1 or IGF-II 5' genomic regulatory regions, we were able to generate stable cell lines that synthesize and secrete mature IGF-I. This was demonstrated by RIA, by Northern analysis, and by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis characterization of the radiolabeled intracellular and extracellular products that reacted with an IGF-I antibody. The mitogenic responses to TSH in IGF-I-expressing transfected FRTL-5 cells were indistinguishable from those stimulated by TSH and IGF-I in wild type or control-transfected cells (FRTL-5 cells stably transfected with a similar transgene that does not encode IGF-I). Basal DNA synthesis was higher and the peak of thymidine incorporation was earlier in IGF-I-expressing transfected FRTL-5 cells than in wild type or control cells (18-24 h vs. 30-36 h). The concentrations of TSH that maximally stimulate the incorporation of thymidine were not altered by IGF-I expression, and transfected cells did not appear to be transformed, as judged by their inability to form colonies in soft agar. TSH-stimulated DNA synthesis was blocked in IGF-I-expressing FRTL-5 cell by a monoclonal antibody to IGF (Sm 1.2). Thus, secretion of IGF-I appears to be required for the autocrine effects observed. These IGF-I-expressing FRTL-5 cell lines provide a model in vitro system to study the intracellular processing of IGF-I and the mechanisms by which IGF-I acts in an autocrine manner.
Retinoic acid regulates insulin-like growth factor II expression in a neuroblastoma cell line.	Insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and IGF-II) are mitogenic polypeptides that play an important role in normal growth and development. IGF-II has been shown to stimulate the growth of neuroblastoma tumors in an autocrine and paracrine fashion. Critical in determining the role of IGF-II in tumorigenesis is the necessity to delineate factors affecting the transcription of IGF-II in normal and tumor tissues. To date such factors are poorly characterized. In this study we find that retinoic acid (RA), a naturally occurring morphogen, that has been shown to be indispensable in the development of the chick limb bud, stimulates an increase in IGF-II messenger RNA (mRNA) in the Lan-1-15N neuroblastoma cell line. This increase in IGF-II is coincident with RA mediated inhibition of DNA synthesis. An increase in the steady state levels of IGF-II mRNA is detectable within 2 h of RA treatment and maximal by 24 h. In RA-treated Lan-1-15N cells, IGF-II mRNA levels are regulated at the level of new gene transcription and result in an increase in IGF-II protein in the culture supernatant. These studies suggest one mechanism affecting the production of IGF-II in vivo may be mediated by RA and detail a model system by which transcriptional regulation of IGF-II mRNA can be analyzed.
The response of C3H mice to streptozotocin. I. Thymic depression and leukocyte toxicity.	Streptozotocin, an antibiotic with reported antileukemic activity, was administered to C3H mice to evaluate the response of peripheral blood leukocytes and thymic lymphocytes. The hematologic effects of a single diabetogenic dose of streptozotocin include an absolute neutropenia and a depression of tritiated thymidine incorporation into thymic lymphocytes.
Suppression of lymphoproliferation by high concentrations of normal human mononuclear leukocytes.	Mononuclear leukocytes (MNL) include cells that suppress lymphoproliferation in unstimulated and antigen-stimulated cultures. Suppression is demonstrated by increasing the concentration of cells added to cultures and does not require preactivation of suppressor cells. Suprression of 3H-thymidine incorporation occurred if the high concentrations of MNL were added to cultures before the proliferative responses commenced. This suppressive effect of high cell concentration upon 3H-thymidine incorporation is removed by depleting MNL present in high numbers of cells that adhere to foreign surfaces or by preincubating these cells with cycloheximide, puromycin, or pactamycin. The suppressor cell, which only functions when present in a viable state, is radioresistant, adheres to foreign surfaces, remains active through 5 days in culture, and equates with the presence of a cell that is rich in cytoplasmic esterase. The suppressor cell may be of the monocyte series and did not appear to belong to either the T or the B lymphocyte series. This study provides additional evidence that normal immune reactivity in man is under regulatory control. The suppressor mechanism identified herein with normal human MNL is probably related to a similar type of suppression (but at a much lower cell concentration) that has been described with Hodgkin's disease and solid tumors.
Thymidylate synthetase and dihydrofolic acid reductase in the stimulated human lymphocyte.	The phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated human lymphocytes demonstrated trace or no activity (dihydro) folate acid reductase using three methods including a radioassay, but demonstrated ample activity of thymidylate synthetase. This was true regardless of the day of harvest, (first through seventh) of the stimulated lymphocyte. The lymphocyte extracts revealed no inhibitor to the reductase enzyme when these extracts were added before the liver extracts to the assay system. When methotrexate (MTX) was added to the culture media of the lymphocytes, there was, as expected, an increase in the synthetase activity, but the expected rise in  the reductase activity did not occur, it remained nil. On the other hand, MTX did influence the incorporation of nucleosides by the stimulated lymphocytes in a fashion similar to its action on the incorporation of the same nucleosides by other cells.
Kinetics of CTL induction by concanavalin A.	Induction of maximal CTL activity was achieved within 12 hr of exposure to Con A in vitro in various mouse lymphoid cell populations. These included spleen cells from normal unsensitized mice, spleen cells from mice previously immunized with alloantigen, and mouse spleen cells exposed to alloantigen in long-term mixed leukocyte culture (LTMLC). Although induction of maximal incorporation of tritiated thymidine was accomplished within this same period in the cells obtained from LTMLC, a much longer period of Con A exposure (greater than 24 hr) was required for freshly prepared spleen cells from normal or previously immunized mice. These findings indicate that the increased tritiated thymidine uptake induced in freshly prepared spleen cells on continued exposure to Con A beyond 12 hr is not associated with the development of cytolytic activity, and that it probably represents stimulation of subpopulations no longer present in the LTMLC population where positive selection for cells responsive to cellular alloantigens has taken place.
Initiation of adenovirus DNA replication does not occur via a hairpin mechanism.	Models have been proposed suggesting that initiation of adenovirus DNA replication might occur via a hairpin mechanism. A consequence of the models is a covalent linkage of progeny and parental DNA in newly completed molecules. Analysis of mature molecules from KB cells infected with adenovirus type 5 indicates that, if a hairpin mechanism is involved, the length of the hairpin must be shorter than 50 basepairs long. Recent nucleotide sequence analysis of the termini of adenovirus type 5 DNA (P.H. Steenbergh et al. (1977) Nucl. Acids Res. 4, 4371-4389) has shown that a hairpin of this size does not exist and that therefore a hairpin mechanism is unlikely.
Effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide on angiotensin II-induced proliferation of rat vascular smooth muscle cells.	The present study was designed to examine the effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on angiotensin II-induced proliferation of cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells. Vascular smooth muscle cells were grown from explants of Sprague-Dawley rat aorta. Vascular smooth muscle cells (between passages 5 and 10) were incubated with 0.1% neonatal calf serum for 48 h, and then treated with angiotensin II (100 nM) in the absence or presence of CGRP for 24 h. The viability, DNA synthesis and cell cycle of vascular smooth muscle cells were measured. Western blotting was used to determine the activity of intracellular extracellular regulated kinase (ERK1/2). Angiotensin II significantly decreased the viability and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells, decreased the proliferation index, and increased the activity of ERK1/2; the effects of angiotensin II were inhibited by CGRP (1-100 nM) in a concentration-dependent manner. In conclusion, CGRP significantly inhibits angiotensin II-induced proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells, an effect related to a decrease in the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway.
Specific inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinases and cell proliferation by harmine.	As key regulators of the cell proliferation cycle, cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are attractive targets for the development of anti-tumor drugs. In the present study, harmine was identified from a collection of herbal compounds to be a specific inhibitor of Cdk1/cyclin B, Cdk2/cyclin A, and Cdk5/p25 with IC50 values at low micromoles. It displayed little effect on other serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases tested. The CDK inhibition by harmine is competitive with ATP-Mg2+, suggesting that it binds to the ATP-Mg2+-binding pocket of CDKs. In cytotoxicity assays, harmine exhibited a strong inhibitory effect on the growth and proliferation of carcinoma cells whereas it had no significant effect on quiescent fibroblasts. Further, harmine was found to block DNA replication in the carcinoma cells. Taken together, harmine is a selective inhibitor of CDKs and cell proliferation.
PACAP promotes neural stem cell proliferation in adult mouse brain.	In recent years, it has become evident that neural stem cells in the adult mammalian brain continuously generate new neurons, mainly in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb. Although different growth factors have been shown to stimulate neurogenesis in the adult brain, very little is known about the role of neuropeptides in this process. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide with pleiotropic effects acting through three receptors to which it has high affinity, namely, PACAP receptor 1 (PAC1), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) receptor 1, and VIP receptor 2. We show that PAC1 is expressed in the neurogenic regions of the adult mouse brain, namely the ventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Cultured neural stem cells isolated from the lateral ventricle wall of adult mice express PAC1 and proliferate in vitro in response to two PAC1 agonists, PACAP and Maxadilan, but not VIP at physiologic concentrations, indicating PAC1 as a mediator of neural stem cell proliferation. Pharmacologic and biochemical characterization of PACAP-induced neural stem cell proliferation revealed the protein kinase C pathway as the principal signaling pathway, whereas addition of epidermal growth factor synergistically enhanced the proliferating effect of PACAP. Further in vitro characterization of the effect of PACAP on neural stem cells showed PACAP capable of stimulating ex novo in vitro formation of multipotent neurospheres with the capacity to generate both neuronal and glial cells. Finally, intracerebroventricular infusion of PACAP increases cell proliferation in the ventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We conclude that PACAP, through PAC1, is a potent mediator of adult neural stem cell proliferation.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) proliferation of streptozotocin-diabetic animals induced by diadenosine polyphosphates.	Specific binding sites for diadenosine polyphosphates (Ap (4)A, Ap (5)A, Ap (6)A) exist in VSMC (cultured vascular smooth muscle cells). These compounds may regulate VSMC growth and proliferation which is a key event in atherogenesis. Since diabetes is a known risk factor for atherosclerosis, the proliferation of VSMC from normoglycemic (control) and hyperglycemic (diabetic) rats were compared and the possibly involved receptors for diadenosine polyphosphates inducing this effect were investigated. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin (66 mg/kg i.p.) and VSMC were prepared from rat aorta (primary culture). ( (3)H)thymidine incorporation was a measure of cell proliferation. For all diadenosine polyphosphates tested a stimulatory effect was observed as a bell-shaped concentration-response curve and a maximum effect at 10 micro M (physiological concentration). Ap (6)A has the most prominent effect (247.8 +/- 33.2 % increase over basal). In VSMC of diabetic rats the effects were even more prominent (Ap (5)A: 430.1 +/- 62.7 %). ATP (a degradation product of Ap (6)A) is able to increase the maximum effect of 10 micro M Ap (6)A. UTP (P2Y (2) agonist) exhibits a weaker proliferation. 1 micro M suramin (P2 receptor antagonist) shifts the concentration response curve of ATP and of Ap (6)A to the right. In contrast, 10 micro M PPADS (P2 X receptor antagonist) has no effect. There is no difference between VSMC of normal and diabetic rats in this respect. ADP, AMP, and adenosine exhibit a dual proliferative effect. The effect of either of these 3 compounds is much higher in VSMC of diabetic rats than of controls. 2MeSATP (P2Y (1) agonist) and alpha,beta-Methylen-ATP (P2X agonist) were not effective in VSMC of both normoglycemic and diabetic rats.
Identification, molecular cloning, and sequence analysis of a deoxyribose aldolase in Streptococcus mutans GS-5.	Bacterial fitness in the environment, where nutrients are limited and competition is intense, plays a central role in survival and virulence of the organisms. Deoxyribose aldolase, found in several species of bacteria, is known to be involved in the catabolism of deoxynucleosides arising from dead cells, thereby giving a selective advantage to the microorganisms with a capability to consume DNA as an alternative carbon and energy source. A gene encoding a deoxyribose aldolase gene ( deoC) was identified in the cariogenic Streptococcus mutans strain GS-5 by comparative sequence analysis and gene cloning. The gene encodes a protein of 220 amino acids, having a predicted molecular weight of 23.3 kDa with a p I of 5.44. The gene was cloned into the expression vector pFLAG-1, and the biological function of the gene product was analyzed by a complementation assay with a deoC(-) Escherichia coli mutant SPhi063. Transformation of the E. coli SPhi063 with the plasmid construct allowed this organism to grow on glucose minimal medium supplemented with 2 mM deoxyadenosine or deoxythymidine. These results showed activity of deoxyribose aldolase, confirming the identity of the gene. Utilization of exogenous deoxynucleotides as a carbon and energy source may confer a survival and growth advantage to S. mutans over other bacteria in dental plaque, suggesting that deoxyribose aldolase may be a contributing factor to virulence.
The topoisomerase I- and p53-binding protein topors is differentially expressed in normal and malignant human tissues and may function as a tumor suppressor.	Topors was identified recently as a human protein that binds to topoisomerase I and p53. Topors contains a highly conserved RING domain and localizes in promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies. Relatively little is known regarding topors expression patterns or function. We now demonstrate that topors mRNA and protein are widely expressed in normal human tissues. By contrast, topors mRNA and protein levels are decreased or undetectable in colon adenocarcinomas relative to normal colon tissue, and expression of the topors protein is not detectable in several colon cancer cell lines. The human TOPORS gene is located on chromosome 9p21, with loss of heterozygosity in this region frequently observed in several different malignancies. While we were unable to detect loss of heterozygosity of the TOPORS gene in 16 sporadic colon cancer cases, increased methylation of a CpG island in the TOPORS promoter was evident in colon adenocarcinoma specimens relative to matched normal tissues. Additional studies indicate that forced expression of topors inhibits cellular proliferation and is associated with an accumulation of cells in the G(0)/G(1) phase of the cell cycle. This effect is independent of the topors RING domain and maps to a C-terminal region of the protein. These results suggest that topors functions as a negative regulator of cell growth, and possibly as a tumor suppressor.
Functional characterization of T lymphocytes derived from patients with acute myelogenous leukemia and chemotherapy-induced leukopenia.	T-cell-targeting immunotherapy is now considered in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Immunotherapy seems most effective for patients with a low AML cell burden, and a possible strategy is therefore to administer immunotherapy early after intensive chemotherapy when patients have a low leukemia cell burden and severe treatment-induced cytopenia. To further investigate this possible therapeutic approach we used a whole blood assay to characterize the proliferative responsiveness (3H-thymidine incorporation) of circulating T cells from AML patients with severe treatment-induced leukopenia, i.e., peripheral blood leukocyte counts < 0.5x10(9)/l. This assay will reflect both quantitative and qualitative differences. Responses were compared for 17 AML patients, 6 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and a group of 21 healthy controls. Most circulating leukocytes in the AML patients were T lymphocytes, whereas B lymphocytes and monocytes usually constituted < 10%. Anti-CD3-stimulated proliferation was significantly lower for AML patients compared with healthy controls. However, proliferation in response to anti-CD3 + anti-CD28 did not differ for AML patients and healthy controls, an observation suggesting that T cells from AML patients have an increased responsiveness in the presence of optimal costimulation that compensates for the quantitative T-cell defect. In contrast, the responses were significantly lower for ALL than for AML patients. We conclude that the remaining T-cell population in AML patients with severe chemotherapy-induced cytopenia show an increased proliferative responsiveness and may represent a therapeutic target when antileukemic immunotherapy is tried in combination with intensive chemotherapy.
Potent activation of multiple signalling pathways by C-peptide in opossum kidney proximal tubular cells.	Proinsulin C-peptide is generally believed to be inert without any appreciable biological functions. However, it has been shown to modulate a variety of cellular processes important in the pathophysiology of diabetic complications. We therefore investigated the ability of C-peptide to stimulate intracellular signalling pathways in kidney proximal tubular cells, the altered activation of which may possibly be related to the development of diabetic nephropathy.
Targeted radiosensitisation by pegylated liposome-encapsulated 3', 5'-O-dipalmitoyl 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine in a head and neck cancer xenograft model.	5-Iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (IUdR) is an effective radiosensitiser but its clinical development has been limited by toxicity. Prolonged intravenous infusions of IUdR are necessary for optimal tumour uptake but cause dose-limiting myelosuppression. The lack of selective tumour uptake can lead to radiosensitisation of adjacent normal tissues and enhanced local radiation toxicity. Liposomal IUdR delivery offers selective targeting of tumour tissues and avoidance of local and systemic toxicity. In these studies, we report the development of a pegylated liposome containing a lipophilic IUdR derivative (3', 5'-O-dipalmitoyl-5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine) for use in a head and neck cancer xenograft model. Initial studies confirmed the ability of IUdR to sensitise two head and neck cancer cell lines to single fractions of radiotherapy (SFRT) and this effect was seen to correlate with the thymidine replacement index in KB cells. In vivo delivery of single doses of either unencapsulated IUdR or pegylated liposomal IUdR (PLIUdR) to nude mice bearing KB xenograft tumours did not enhance the effect of SFRT delivered 16 h later. When PLIUdR was delivered by a protracted administration schedule to a dose of 48 mg kg(-1) over 7 days, it enhanced the effect of both 4.5 Gy SFRT and fractionated radiotherapy. PLIUdR was at least as effective as unencapsulated IUdR delivered by multiple intravenous injections or continuous subcutaneous infusion. Immunohistochemistry with a specific anti-IUdR monoclonal antibody confirmed greater levels of tumour staining in tumours from animals treated with PLIUdR compared with those treated with unencapsulated IUdR.
Analyzing markers of apoptosis in vitro.	Cell death by apoptosis was first identified based on morphological changes reproduced with great fidelity in cells of widely different origin when exposed to a death stimulus. These changes include condensation of the cytosol and the nuclear chromatin, blebbing of the plasma membrane, and cell fragmentation into corpses that are engulfed by neighboring cells. Apoptotic cells demonstrate various levels of DNA fragmentation and exposed phosphatidylserine on the outer leaflet of their plasma membrane. Most apoptotic pathways converge on the mitochondria, inducing the disruption of the mitochondrial trans-membrane potential and the release of soluble molecules from mitochondrial inter-membrane space. One of these molecules is cytochrome c, which, in the cytosol, activates proteases of the caspase family. This chapter suggests methods to identify these characteristic morphological and biochemical events, and cell-free systems that can be used to identify the molecular pathways leading to the death phenotype.
Flow cytometric test for beryllium sensitivity.	Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is an occupational granulomatous disorder characterized by hypersensitivity to beryllium, mediated by CD4+ T lymphocytes, and predominantly affects the lungs. In this disorder, lymphocyte proliferative responses to beryllium, measured by 3H thymidine incorporation, are used for diagnosis of CBD, for screening asymptomatic workers or former workers to detect unrecognized disease, and for surveillance as a bioassay to detect abnormal exposures. Problems with test variability and the use of radioactivity have recently led to the search for alternative methods.
Functional properties of hyalocytes under PDGF-rich conditions.	To investigate the functional properties and intracellular signaling of hyalocytes under platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-rich conditions.
ALK receptor tyrosine kinase promotes cell growth and neurite outgrowth.	Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a receptor-type protein tyrosine kinase that is expressed preferentially in neurons of the central and peripheral nervous systems at late embryonic stages. To elucidate the role of ALK in neurons, we developed an agonist monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the extracellular domain of ALK. Here we show that mAb16-39 elicits tyrosine phosphorylation of endogenously expressed ALK in human neuroblastoma (SK-N-SH) cells. Stimulation of these cells with mAb16-39 markedly induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), Shc, and c-Cbl and also their interaction with ALK and activation of ERK1/2. Furthermore, we show that continuous incubation with mAb16-39 induces the cell growth and neurite outgrowth of SK-N-SH cells. These responses are completely blocked by MEK inhibitor PD98059 but not by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) inhibitor wortmannin, indicating an essential role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) signaling cascade in ALK-mediated growth and differentiation of neurons.
CD9-mediated activation of the p46 Shc isoform leads to apoptosis in cancer cells.	CD9, a member of the tetraspanin family, has been shown to be involved in a range of cellular activities, including migration, proliferation and adhesion, but the molecular mechanisms by which it mediates such events is unclear. Here, we found that anti-CD9 monoclonal antibody ALB6 inhibited cell proliferation, reduced cell viability and induced not only morphological changes specific to apoptosis but also molecular changes, as evidenced by TUNEL and annexin-V staining. For the possible mechanism of ALB6-induced apoptosis, ALB6 activated the c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK/SAPK) and p38 mitogen-activated-protein kinase (MAPK) within 5-15 minutes, as well as caspase-3 within 24-48 hours. It is noteworthy that ALB6 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the p46 Shc isoform specifically and that the overexpression of its dominant-negative form completely suppressed the ALB6-induced activation of JNK/SAPK, p38 MAPK and caspase-3, resulting in the inhibition of apoptotic cell death. These results suggest that CD9 might regulate apoptosis through the specialized signals in human cancer cell lines.
Experimental survey of non-clonogenic viability assays for adherent cells in vitro.	Results of rapid cell viability assays were experimentally compared in order to reveal the most suitable test for in vitro investigations of the combination of photodynamic therapy (PDT) with chemotherapeutic drugs. meso-Tetra(3-hydroxyphenyl)-chlorin (m-THPC) accumulating in cell membranes and meso-tetra(4-sulfonatophenyl)-porphin (TPPS4) accumulating in lysosomes were used as photosensitisers. Doxorubicin that localises, mainly, to nucleus and vincristine that binds to microtubules were used as cytostatic drugs. Two adherent rodent cell lines, baby hamster kidney (BHK-21) and murine hepatoma (MH-22A), were used to examine the contribution of a cell. We tested cytotoxicity assays of the main groups of fast (non-clonogenic) methods of cell viability measuring. Plasma membrane integrity was estimated by trypan blue exclusion and LDH leakage, metabolic activity was tested by [3H]-thymidine incorporation and MTT assay, loss of monolayer adherence was measured by staining with crystal violet and CyQUANT. The most sensitive test in each case was the assay related to the site of the direct damage, and measurement of the loss of monolayer adherence proved to be as sensitive assay as the damage-specific one. All the assays applied, except for the LDH release, revealed a higher effect of combination of m-THPC-mediated phototreatment and doxorubicin compared to either of the single treatments.
Yin zi huang, an injectable multicomponent chinese herbal medicine, is a potent inhibitor of T-cell activation.	The clinical efficacy of many multiherbal Traditional Chinese Medicines (TCM) is partially attributable to their immunoregulatory properties. In this study we evaluated the effect of eight commonly used, commercially available multiherbal Chinese medicines on T-cell activation. We focused on Yin Zhi Huang (YZH, an injectable herbal medicine commonly used for the treatment of liver diseases in China), because it was the most potent inhibitor of T-cell activation in our experimental system. The effects of 10 ingredient components of YZH were also evaluated.
Immunomagnetic removal of neurons from developing chick optic tectum results in glial phenotypic instability.	The ability of embryonic day 12 and 13 optic tectum cells to replace depleted A2B5(+) cells and neurons was tested by immunomagnetic cell separation. Nearly all purified surface A2B5(-) cells were identified as glia by immunoreactivity for either glutamine synthetase of galactocerebroside. Most (approximately 80%) of the purified A2B5(-) cells became A2B5(+) after 1 day in culture, although no increase in the percentage of A2B5(+) cells (from 45%) was observed in control cultures of unpurified cells. Long-term monolayer cultures from purified cells contained A2B5(+) cells with mostly flattened glial-like or round process-free morphology, whereas those from unpurified cells contained many A2B5(+) neurons. The non-neuronal A2B5(+) cells frequently reacted with antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein and another marker expressed by embryonic brain glia, 5A11. Additionally, some flattened glia-like cells exhibited elaborate networks of anti-neurofilament-M-reactive filaments. We believe these unusual phenotypes, which appeared only in cultures of purified A2B5(-) cells, arose in response to the immunomagnetic removal of neurons. In conjunction with previous findings, we conclude that the abnormal phenotypes in purified cell cultures represent glia that were unsuccessful in attempting to replenish the depleted neuronal population. This may reflect restricted developmental potentials that arise during brain ontogeny.
Molecular characterization of the stretch-induced adaptation of cultured cardiac cells. An in vitro model of load-induced cardiac hypertrophy.	Although it is a well-known fact that hemodynamic load is a major determinant of cardiac muscle mass and its phenotype, little is known as to how mechanical load is converted into intracellular signals of gene regulation. To address this question, we characterized the stretch-induced adaptation of cultured neonatal cardiocytes grown on a stretchable substrate in a serum-free medium. Static stretch (20%) of the cells was applied without cell injury. Stretch caused hypertrophy in myocytes and hyperplasia in non-myocytes. Stretch caused an induction of immediate-early genes such as c-fos, c-jun, c-myc, JE, and Egr-1, but not Hsp70. Immunostaining showed that the stretch-induced Fos protein localized in the nucleus of both myocytes and non-myocytes. Nuclear extracts from stretched myocytes contained DNA binding activity to the AP-1 and Egr-1 consensus sequences. In myocytes, the induction of immediate-early genes was followed by expression of "fetal" genes such as skeletal alpha-actin, atrial natriuretic factor, and beta-myosin heavy chain. DNA transfection experiments showed that the "stretch-response element" of the c-fos gene promoter is present within 356 base pairs of the 5'-flanking region, whereas that of the atrial natriuretic factor and the beta-myosin heavy chain genes is probably located outside of 3412 and 628 base pairs of the 5'-flanking region, respectively. These results demonstrate that the phenotype of stretched cardiocytes in this in vitro model closely mimics that of hemodynamic load-induced hypertrophy in vivo. This model seems to be a suitable system with which to dissect the molecular mechanisms of load-induced hypertrophy of cardiac muscle.
Requirement for prolactin during cell cycle regulated gene expression in cloned T-lymphocytes.	The neuroendocrine hormone PRL acts as a progression factor during interleukin-2 (IL2) stimulated lymphocyte proliferation. Since the sequential expression of cell cycle regulated genes occurs during this process, we examined the contribution of IL2 and PRL to specific RNA accumulation. Stimulation of the cloned T cell line L2 with IL2 and PRL induced the sequential expression of interferon regulatory factor-1, c-myc, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, thymidine kinase, cyclin B, and histone H3. Stimulation of L2 cells with PRL alone, however, induced only the expression of interferon regulatory factor-1. Depletion of PRL, through the use of an anti-PRL antiserum, inhibited IL2 driven proliferation and the expression of cyclin B and histone H3. These results demonstrate that PRL may regulate T cell proliferation by enhancing the expression of some genes necessary for entry into S-phase.
The lethal and mutagenic action of 3H incorporated into the 2' position of the deoxyribose in the DNA of the extracellular phage lambda]	The lethal and mutagenic effects of 3H decay in 2' position of deoxyribose residues in DNA of extracellular lambda phage were studied, [2'-3H]-deoxyadenosine (3H-dA) or [2'-3H]-thymidine (3H-dT) being used as labelled DNA precursors. As estimated by the efficiency of the lethal and mutagenic actions of 3H decay in position 2' was significantly lower than that of the decay in the incorporated 3H-pyrimidines. The genetic effects of 3H decay in 2' position may be attributed to the radiation effect of beta-particles on DNA. In UV-irradiated E. coli cells, with the induced SOS repair, the mutagenic effect of 3H-dA in phage lambda is significantly higher than that of 3H-dT. This is perhaps related to the formation in DNA of AP-sites, resulting from 3H-decay in 2' position, and to the predominant incorporation of adenosine residues opposite to AP-sites during SOS repair.
Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K represses transcription from a cytosine/thymidine-rich element in the osteocalcin promoter.	HnRNP K (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K) was biochemically purified from a screen of proteins co-purifying with binding activity to the osteocalcin promoter. We identify hnRNP K as a novel repressor of osteocalcin gene transcription. Overexpression of hnRNP K lowers the expression of osteocalcin mRNA by 5-fold. Furthermore, luciferase reporter assays demonstrate that overexpression of hnRNP K represses osteocalcin transcription from a CT (cytosine/thymidine)-rich element in the proximal promoter. Electrophoretic mobility-shift analysis reveals that recombinant hnRNP K binds to the CT-rich element, but binds ss (single-stranded), rather than ds (double-stranded) oligonucleotide probes. Accordingly, hnRNP K antibody can supershift a binding activity present in nuclear extracts using ss sense, but not antisense or ds oligonucleotides corresponding to the CT-rich -95 to -47 osteocalcin promoter. Importantly, addition of recombinant hnRNP K to ROS 17/2.8 nuclear extract disrupts formation of a DNA-protein complex on ds CT element oligonucleotides. This action is mutually exclusive with hnRNP K's ability to bind ss DNA. These results demonstrate that hnRNPK, although co-purified with a dsDNA-binding activity, does not itself bind dsDNA. Rather, hnRNP K represses osteocalcin gene transcription by inhibiting the formation of a transcriptional complex on the CT element of the osteocalcin promoter.
Rituximab induces different but overlapping sets of genes in human B-lymphoma cell lines.	The therapeutic unconjugated anti-CD20 Mab rituximab is used for the treatment of B-non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. We have studied the direct biological effects, signalling and gene expression profiles induced by rituximab in two human B-lymphoma cell lines, DHL4 and BJAB, using microarray, quantitative PCR and gel shift analysis. Rituximab alone inhibited thymidine uptake and induced homotypic adhesion in DHL4 only, but not BJAB. Analysis of Affymetrix microchips carrying probes for about 10,000 human cDNAs, allowed us to identify 16 genes in DHL4 and 12 in BJAB induced by rituximab at 4 h. Eleven and seven of these genes were specific for DHL4 and BJAB, respectively; whereas the remaining five were up-regulated in both cell lines. Mean induction ranged from 2- to 16-fold. Real time PCR analysis allowed us to confirm up-regulation of all genes identified, except one in BJAB. Time course of induction of eight genes was studied, showing peak induction in most cases at 4 h. The up-regulation of 5/5 genes was also observed with the F(ab')(2) fragment of rituximab. Analysis of three further B-cell lymphoma lines showed that gene induction is not restricted to BJAB and DHL4. Finally, we show that rituximab alone can induce AP1 activation in both cell lines and provide evidence that the ERK1/2 pathway is involved in the rituximab-mediated up-regulation of gene expression. These data demonstrate that rituximab alone has direct signalling capacity in different B-lymphoma lines, inducing distinct but overlapping sets of genes which may play a role in the biological and/or therapeutic effect of the antibody.
Genistein stimulates the osteoblastic differentiation via NO/cGMP in bone marrow culture.	The soybean phytoestrogen, genistein (Gen), has anabolic effects on bone through mechanisms that remain to be elucidated. We examined the role of nitric oxide (NO) and its downstream effector guanylyl cyclase (GC) in mediating the effects of Gen on the proliferation and osteoblastic maturation of primary mouse bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). Gen (10(-8) approximately 10(-6) M) resulted in a dose-dependent increase in cell proliferation as measured by increased [3H]thymidine incorporation, and stimulated osteoblastic maturation as assessed by culture duration-dependent increments in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, calcium deposition into extracellular matrix and Runx2/Cbfa1 gene expression in BMSCs cultures. Gen also resulted in a dose-dependent increase in NO synthase (NOS) activity, NO formation, and cGMP production in BMSCs cultures. The effects of Gen were mimicked by 17beta-estradiol (E2, 10(-8) M). Concurrent treatment with the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist ICI182,780 (10(-7) M) or the NOS inhibitor L-NAME (3 x 10(-3) M) diminished the Gen (10(-6) M)-mediated increase in NOS activity, NO production, and cGMP content. In contrast, a soluble GC inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo [4,3,-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ, 10(-6) M) selectively blocked the Gen (10(-6) M)-mediated increase in cGMP content but not in NO production and NOS activity. Moreover, inhibition of ER, NOS activity or cGMP blocked Gen-induced proliferation and osteoblastic differentiation of BMSCs and Runx2/Cbfa1 gene expression in culture. Gen has estrogen-like activity and stimulates the proliferation and osteoblastic differentiation of mouse BMSCs at least in part through NO/cGMP pathway.
Inhibition of human embryonic palatal mesenchymal cell cycle by secalonic acid D: a probable mechanism of its cleft palate induction.	To assess the mechanism(s) of cleft palate induction by secalonic acid D (SAD) in human embryonic palatal mesenchymal (HEPM) cells and compare them with those evaluated in the murine embryonic palate.
Homologous up-regulation of androgen receptor expression by androgen in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Androgens play an important role in the arterial vascular system, and androgen receptors (AR) have been identified in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). This study examined the effects of testosterone exposure on AR gene expression in cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells.
Alpha-anomeric deoxynucleotides, anoxic products of ionizing radiation, are substrates for the endonuclease IV-type AP endonucleases.	Alpha-anomeric 2'-deoxynucleosides (alphadN) are one of the products formed by ionizing radiation (IR) in DNA under anoxic conditions. Alpha-2'-deoxyadenosine (alphadA) and alpha-thymidine (alphaT) are not recognized by DNA glycosylases, and are likely removed by the alternative nucleotide incision repair (NIR) pathway. Indeed, it has been shown that alphadA is a substrate for the Escherichia coli Nfo and human Ape1 proteins. However, the repair pathway for removal of alphadA and other alphadN in yeast is unknown. Here we report that alphadA when present in DNA is recognized by the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Apn1 protein, a homologue of Nfo. Furthermore, alphaT is a substrate for Nfo and Apn1. Kinetic constants indicate that alphadA and alphaT are equally good substrates, as a tetrahydrofuranyl (THF) residue, for Nfo and Apn1. Using E. coli and S. cerevisiae cell-free extracts, we have further substantiated the role of the nfo and apn1 gene products in the repair of alphadN. Surprisingly, we found that bacteria and yeast NIR-deficient mutants are not sensitive to IR, suggesting that DNA strand breaks with terminal 3'-blocking groups rather than alphadN might contribute to cell survival. We propose that the novel substrate specificities of Nfo and Apn1 play an important role in counteracting oxidative DNA base damage.
Thymidine phosphorylase deficiency causes MNGIE: an autosomal recessive mitochondrial disorder.	Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding thymidine phosphorylase (TP). The disease is characterized clinically by impaired eye movements, gastrointestinal dysmotility, cachexia, peripheral neuropathy, myopathy, and leukoencephalopathy. Molecular genetic studies of MNGIE patients' tissues have revealed multiple deletions, depletion, and site-specific point mutations of mitochondrial DNA. TP is a cytosolic enzyme required for nucleoside homeostasis. In MNGIE, TP activity is severely reduced and consequently levels of thymidine and deoxyuridine in plasma are dramatically elevated. We have hypothesized that the increased levels of intracellular thymidine and deoxyuridine cause imbalances of mitochondrial nucleotide pools that, in turn, lead to the mtDNA abnormalities. MNGIE was the first molecularly characterized genetic disorder caused by abnormal mitochondrial nucleoside/nucleotide metabolism. Future studies are likely to reveal further insight into this expanding group of diseases.
Mycophenolic acid inhibits platelet-derived growth factor-induced reactive oxygen species and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in rat vascular smooth muscle cells.	Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation is the major pathologic feature associated with chronic allograft nephropathy, and mycophenolic acid (MPA) inhibits VSMC proliferation. Since the role of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH)-dependent de novo guanosine synthesis is limited in VSMCs, we examined the effects of MPA on platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced cellular ROS and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) activation in VSMCs. Primary cultured rat VSMCs were stimulated with PDGF-BB in the presence or absence of MPA. Cell proliferation was assessed by [3H]-thymidine incorporation, ROS by flow cytometry and MAPK activation by Western blot analysis. PDGF increased cell proliferation, cellular ROS and extracellular-regulated protein kinase (ERK) 1/2 and p38 MAPK activation by 3.4-, 1.6-, 3.3- and 3.9-fold, respectively. MPA at above 1 muM inhibited PDGF-induced cellular ROS and ERK 1/2 and p38 MAPK activation, as well as proliferation. Structurally different anti-oxidants and inhibitor of ERK or p38 MAPK blocked PDGF-induced proliferation. Anti-oxidants also inhibited ERK 1/2 and p38 MAPK activation. Exogenous guanosine partially recovered the inhibitory effect of MPA on VSMC proliferation. These results suggest that MPA may inhibit PDGF-induced VSMC proliferation partially through inhibiting cellular ROS, and subsequent ERK 1/2 and p38 MAPK activation in addition to inhibiting IMPDH.
Cerebellar granular cell cultures as an in vitro model for antidepressant drug-induced neurogenesis.	Both preclinical and clinical evidence suggested that antidepressant drugs upregulate hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis. In addition, direct evidence was recently published that hippocampal de novo cell proliferation is necessary for antidepressant action. Within this frame, we used primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells (CGC) as an in vitro model of central nervous system (CNS) to investigate whether a neurogenic response could be elicited also in the cerebellum, upon chronic treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Furthermore, we assayed the presence of neural precursor cells in CGC, possibly responsive to proliferation and differentiation stimuli. We found that 1 microM fluoxetine increased cell proliferation, as assayed by [3H]-thymidine incorporation. CGC immunocytochemical analysis with neural cell-specific markers revealed the presence of granule neurons, glial cells, and a cell component that we named "round cells." Because only round cells displayed proliferation ability, as revealed by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, they were further characterized. For this purpose, round cells were isolated and expanded by culturing in a serum-free medium, containing basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), before immunocytochemical analysis. We found that round cells were not immunoreactive for glial, neuronal, and oligodendrocyte markers, whereas they were immunoreactive for several immature neuronal markers. Accordingly, round cells could be induced to differentiate into astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes, either by withdrawing the mitogen bFGF or by exposing them to fluoxetine. These findings suggest that round cells in CGC possess the features and potentials of neural precursors, able to differentiate in mature neural cells upon a pharmacological simulum.
The indazole derivative YD-3 inhibits thrombin-induced vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and attenuates intimal thickening after balloon injury.	Proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is postulated to be one of the key events in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and restenosis. We investigated whether YD-3, a lowmolecular weight, non-peptide compound, could modulate proliferation of VSMCs in vitro and restenosis after balloon angioplasty in vivo. We examined the effect of YD-3 on thrombininduced VSMC proliferation by [(3)H]thymidine incorporation assay. The data demonstrated that YD-3 inhibited VSMC proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner. To define the mechanisms of YD-3 action, we found that YD-3 showed a profound inhibition on thrombin-induced Ras and ERK1/2 activities by using Western blotting analysis. Furthermore, oral administration of YD-3 exhibited a marked reduction in neointimal thickness using the carotid injury model in rats. Using immunochemical detection, our experiments also revealed that YD-3 significantly suppressed expression of the PAR-1 receptor, and markedly inhibited PAR-1-activating peptide (SFLLRN)-induced VSMC proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that YD-3 inhibits thrombin-induced VSMC growth via the Ras- and ERK1/2-mediated signaling pathway. Moreover, YD-3 also shows a developmental potential in the treatment of atherosclerosis and restenosis after vascular injury.
Inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis by 25-hydroxyvitamin D3-3beta-(2)-Bromoacetate, a nontoxic and vitamin D receptor-alkylating analog of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 in prostate cancer cells.	The 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3) (25-OH-D(3)) is a nontoxic and low-affinity vitamin D receptor (VDR)-binding metabolic precursor of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)]. We hypothesized that covalent attachment of a 25-OH-D(3) analog to the hormone-binding pocket of VDR might convert the latter into transcriptionally active holo-form, making 25-OH-D(3) biologically active. Furthermore, it might be possible to translate the nontoxic nature of 25-OH-D(3) into its analog. We showed earlier that 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)-3-bromoacetate (25-OH-D(3)-3-BE) alkylated the hormone-binding pocket of VDR. In this communication we describe that 10(-6) mol/L of 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE inhibited the growth of keratinocytes, LNCaP, and LAPC-4 androgen-sensitive and PC-3 and DU145 androgen-refractory prostate cancer cells, and PZ-HPV-7 immortalized normal prostate cells with similar or stronger efficacy as 1,25(OH)(2)D(3). But its effect was strongest in LNCaP, PC-3, LAPC-4, and DU145 cells. Furthermore, 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE was toxic to these prostate cancer cells and caused these cells to undergo apoptosis as shown by DNA-fragmentation and caspase-activation assays. In a reporter assay with COS-7 cells, transfected with a 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)-24-hydroxylase (24-OHase)-construct and VDR-expression vector, 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE induced 24-OHase promoter activity. In a "pull down assay" with PC-3 cells, 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE induced strong interaction between VDR and general transcription factors, retinoid X receptor, and GRIP-1. Collectively, these results strongly suggested that the cellular effects of 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE were manifested via 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)/VDR signaling pathway. A toxicity study in CD-1 mice showed that 166 microg/kg of 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE did not raise serum-calcium beyond vehicle control. Collectively, these results strongly suggested that 25-OH-D(3)-3-BE has a strong potential as a therapeutic agent for androgen-sensitive and androgen-refractory prostate cancer.
Enhanced tumor cell radiosensitivity and abrogation of G2 and S phase arrest by the Hsp90 inhibitor 17-(dimethylaminoethylamino)-17-demethoxygeldanamycin.	Because of the potential for affecting multiple signaling pathways, inhibition of Hsp90 may provide a strategy for enhancing tumor cell radiosensitivity. Therefore, we have investigated the effects of the orally bioavailable Hsp90 inhibitor 17-(dimethylaminoethylamino)-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-DMAG) on the radiosensitivity of human tumor cells in vitro and grown as tumor xenografts.
Increased Fas expression reduces the metastatic potential of human osteosarcoma cells.	The process of metastasis requires the single tumor cell that seeds the metastatic clone to complete a complex series of steps. Identifying factors responsible for these steps is essential in developing and improving targeted therapy for metastasis. Resistance to receptor-mediated cell death, such as the Fas/Fas ligand pathway, is one mechanism commonly exploited by metastatic cell populations.
Generation and phenotypic analysis of a transgenic line of rabbits secreting active recombinant human erythropoietin in the milk.	Production of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) for therapeutic purposes relies on its expression in selected clones of transfected mammalian cells. Alternatively, this glycoprotein can be produced by targeted secretion into the body fluid of transgenic mammals. Here, we report on the generation of a transgenic rabbits producing rhEPO in the lactating mammary gland. Transgenic individuals are viable, fertile and transmit the rhEPO gene to the offspring. Northern blot data indicated that the expression of the transgene in the mammary gland is controlled by whey acidic protien (WAP) regulatory sequences during the period of lactation. While the hybridization with total RNA revealed the expression only in the lactating mammary gland, the highly sensitive combinatory approach using RT-PCR/hybridization technique detected a minor ectopic expression. The level of rhEPO secretion in the founder female, measured in the period of lactation, varied in the range of 60-178 and 60-162 mIU/ml in the milk and blood plasma, respectively. Biological activity of the milk rhEPO was confirmed by a standard [3H]-thymidine incorporation test. Thus, we describe the model of a rhEPO-transgenic rabbit, valuable for studies of rhEPO glycosylation and function, which can be useful for the development of transgenic approaches designed for the preparation of recombinant proteins by alternative biopharmaceutical production.
A rapid microtechnique for in vitro stimulation of canine lymphocytes using whole blood.	A simple, rapid microtechnique utilizing whole blood has been developed for evaluating the in vitro stimulation of canine lymphocytes. The test uses 5 ul. of heparinized whole blood per culture in a microtiter plate and requires no serum supplement. Cultures are harvested by an automated multiple sample cell harvester. This technique permits large numbers of replicate samples to be tested on individual animals with minimal amounts of blood and minimal technician time.
Mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in loggerhead sea turtles: comparison of methods and effects of gender, plasma testosterone concentration, and body condition on immunity.	A fully functioning immune system is vital to the survival of threatened and endangered sea turtles. Immunological protection against diseases in any organism can be reduced by a number of natural and anthropogenic factors, such as seasonal changes, malnutrition, disease states, and contaminant exposure. These factors are even more critical when they occur in endangered species or populations. To identify alterations in the immunological health of loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta), the mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation (LP) assay was developed using peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs). Collection and culture conditions were optimized for this assay using non-lethal blood samples collected from free-ranging turtles along the southeastern US coast. During the collection, two anticoagulants (sodium heparin and lithium heparin) were compared to determine effects of different ions on assay results. Optimal culture conditions were established for loggerhead PBLs while two different methods of measuring LP were compared: (1) the traditional radioactive (3)H-thymidine assay and (2) a non-radioactive, colorimetric method utilizing 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium (MTT). The results indicate that the (3)H-thymidine and the non-radioactive MTT methods did not correlate with each other and that the use of heparin type did not influence the results of the LP assay. Lastly, using these optimized methods, we investigated the effect of gender, plasma testosterone concentration, and body condition on LP in loggerhead turtles and found that none of the parameters largely influenced LP.
Adult ependymal cells are postmitotic and are derived from radial glial cells during embryogenesis.	Ependymal cells on the walls of brain ventricles play essential roles in the transport of CSF and in brain homeostasis. It has been suggested that ependymal cells also function as stem cells. However, the proliferative capacity of mature ependymal cells remains controversial, and the developmental origin of these cells is not known. Using confocal or electron microscopy (EM) of adult mice that received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) or [3H]thymidine for several weeks, we found no evidence that ependymal cells proliferate. In contrast, ependymal cells were labeled by BrdU administration during embryonic development. The majority of them are born between embryonic day 14 (E14) and E16. Interestingly, we found that the maturation of ependymal cells and the formation of cilia occur significantly later, during the first postnatal week. We analyzed the early postnatal ventricular zone at the EM and found a subpopulation of radial glia in various stages of transformation into ependymal cells. These cells often had deuterosomes. To directly test whether radial glia give rise to ependymal cells, we used a Cre-lox recombination strategy to genetically tag radial glia in the neonatal brain and follow their progeny. We found that some radial glia in the lateral ventricular wall transform to give rise to mature ependymal cells. This work identifies the time of birth and early stages in the maturation of ependymal cells and demonstrates that these cells are derived from radial glia. Our results indicate that ependymal cells are born in the embryonic and early postnatal brain and that they do not divide after differentiation. The postmitotic nature of ependymal cells strongly suggests that these cells do not function as neural stem cells in the adult.
Mg2+ as activator of uridine phosphorylation in coordination with other cellular responses to growth factors.	The divalent cation ionophore A23187 facilitates the manipulation of intracellular Mg2+ without increasing the general permeability of the cell. The uptake of uridine into cells is limited by its rate of intracellular phosphorylation that increases within minutes after the addition of growth factors. In the experiments described here, the rate of uridine uptake in ionophore-treated cells stimulated by either serum or insulin depended on the extracellular and intracellular concentrations of Mg2+ and was independent of the extracellular Ca2+ concentration. In very high concentrations of Mg2+ (50 mM), ionophore-treated cells take up uridine as fast, in the absence of growth factors as in their presence, demonstrating that Mg2+ can replace the growth factor requirement for the stimulation of uridine uptake. In contrast, thymidine uptake, which also is limited by its rate of intracellular phosphorylation, showed no early response to either growth factors or Mg2+ concentration, which is consistent with the 10-fold lower Mg2+ requirement of thymidine kinase compared with uridine kinase. The feedback inhibition of uridine kinase by UTP and CTP in cell-free extracts was alleviated by increased Mg2+ concentration. The results support the thesis that the increased uptake of uridine in cells treated with growth factors is determined by a membrane-induced increase in intracellular free Mg2+. Such increase would also accelerate the rate of translation-initiation and other coordinate responses that, unlike increased uridine uptake, are essential for cell proliferation. The rate of uridine uptake is suggested as a direct indicator of free cytosolic Mg2+ that drives the shift from quiescence to proliferation.
An efficient antibody-catalyzed aminoacylation reaction.	An antibody generated against a neutral phosphonate diester transition-state analog was found to catalyze the aminoacylation of the 3'-hydroxyl group of thymidine with an alanyl ester. A comparison of the apparent second-order rate constant of the antibody-catalyzed reaction [5.4 x 10(4) molar-1 minute-1 (M-1 min-1)] with that of the uncatalyzed reaction (2.6 x 10(-4) M-1 min-1) revealed this to be a remarkably efficient catalyst. Moreover, although the concentration of water (55 M) greatly exceeds that of the secondary alcohol, the antibody selectively catalyzes acyl transfer to thymidine. The antibody exhibits sequential binding, with Michaelis constants of 770 microM and 260 microM for acyl acceptor and donor, respectively, and a dissociation constant of 240 pM for hapten. This antibody-catalyzed reaction provides increased insight into the requirements for efficient aminoacylation catalysts and may represent a first step toward the generation of "aminoacyl transfer RNA synthetases" with novel specificities.
Regulation of macrophage colony-stimulating factor in liver fat-storing cells by peptide growth factors.	Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) selectively promotes mononuclear phagocyte survival, proliferation, and differentiation. The production of this factor within the liver may be necessary to support the relatively long-term survival of circulating monocytes as they migrate into tissues and differentiate into macrophages. We studied the constitutive expression and the effects of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and epidermal growth factor (EGF) on M-CSF mRNA levels and secretion of M-CSF in murine liver fat-storing cells (FSC), vascular pericytes likely involved in the development of liver fibrosis. By Northern analysis, using a murine M-CSF cDNA, FSC constitutively express two major transcripts of 4.4 and 2.2 kb, similar to those detected in mouse L cells, used as a control. Exposure to 10 ng/ml PDGF or bFGF increased M-CSF mRNA levels. Peak effects were observed at 3 and 6 h for PDGF and bFGF, respectively, returning to baseline levels by 12 h. Under basal conditions, detectable amounts of M-CSF, measured by radioimmunoassay, were found in cell supernatants conditioned for 8 and 24 h. PDGF and bFGF markedly stimulated the release of M-CSF as early as 8 h, an effect persisting for at least 24 h. These findings suggest that liver FSC release M-CSF upon stimulation by PDGF and bFGF and may contribute to the activation of resident or infiltrating cells in inflammatory liver diseases.
Calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals are endocytosed by renal epithelial cells and induce proliferation.	Monkey kidney epithelial cells of the nontransformed BSC-1 line were used as a model system with which to search for biological responses to urinary crystals commonly found in renal stones. Calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM), the most common urinary crystal, was avidly internalized, initiated DNA synthesis, and stimulated cell multiplication. The increase in DNA synthesis observed after exposure to COM crystals was equivalent in magnitude to that of 10% calf serum, but occurred 8 h later. Maximal stimulation of DNA synthesis by COM was associated with crystal endocytosis by 50% of the cell monolayer. COM crystals also stimulated DNA synthesis and multiplication of canine kidney epithelial cells (MDCK line). As COM stimulated growth of both monkey and canine renal cells but not fibroblasts, the mitogenic effect of this crystal appeared cell-type specific. Hydroxyapatite also enhanced multiplication of BSC-1 cells, whereas brushite, another calcium-containing urinary crystal, did not. In the presence of nephrocalcin (NC), a glycoprotein in normal human urine that inhibits nucleation, aggregation, and growth of COM crystals, the capacity of these crystals to initiate DNA synthesis was blocked. This is the first demonstration that specific calcium-containing urinary crystals can induce proliferation of renal epithelial cells and that NC can inhibit this effect.
In vitro growth ability and chemosensitivity of gastric and colorectal cancer cells assessed with the human tumour clonogenic assay and the thymidine incorporation assay.	A human tumour cloning assay (HTCA) has been performed on 191 samples of gastric and 152 samples of colorectal cancers, and a thymidine incorporation assay (TIA) on 178 samples of gastric and 109 samples of colorectal cancers. The rate of evaluable assays was significantly higher in the TIA than in the HTCA (P less than 0.01). In terms of in vitro growth potential in the two assays, gastric cancer cells were less active than the colorectal cancer cells (P less than 0.05). In frequency of in vitro sensitivity to drugs, gastric cancer was more chemosensitive than colorectal cancer in both assays. The in vitro/in vivo correlations of high resistance-predictive ratios and low sensitivity-predictive ratios were similar in both assays. The results indicate that the TIA is more applicable than the HTCA to screening of active agents against fresh gastrointestinal cancers.
Translocation mediated by domain II of Pseudomonas exotoxin A: transport of barnase into the cytosol.	Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE) is a protein toxin composed of three structural domains. Functional analysis of PE has revealed that domain I is the cell-binding domain and that domain III functions in ADP ribosylation. Domain II was originally designated as the translocation domain, mediating the transfer of domain III to the cytosol, because mutations in this domain result in toxin molecules with normal cell-binding and ADP-ribosylation activities but which are not cytotoxic. However, the results do not rule out the possibility that regions of PE outside of domain II also participate in the translocation process. To investigate this problem, we have now constructed a toxin in which domain III of PE is replaced with barnase, the extracellular ribonuclease of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. This chimeric toxin, termed PE1-412-Bar, is cytotoxic to a murine fibroblast cell line and to a murine hybridoma resistant to the ADP-ribosylation activity of PE. A mutant form of PE1-412-Bar with an inactivating mutation in domain II at position 276 was significantly less toxic. Because the cytotoxic effect of PE1-412-Bar was due to the ribonuclease-activity of barnase molecules which had been translocated to the cytosol, we conclude that domain II of PE is not only essential but also probably sufficient to carry out the translocation process.
Nuclear protein kinase C activity is decreased in Friend erythroleukemia cells induced to differentiate.	Although it is well known that protein kinase C (PKC) is an important signaling molecule in Friend erythroleukemia cells it is not clear what role PKC may play in either regulated or unregulated erythroid cell proliferation and differentiation. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that a decrease in nuclear PKC activity is associated with the induction of differentiation in Friend erythroleukemia cells. The effects of staurosporine, a selective inhibitor of PKC, and the tumor promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate, an activator of PKC, on Friend cell proliferation and differentiation were examined. Neither the inhibitor nor the activator of PKC affected proliferation at 96 h as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation, but both compounds inhibited cell differentiation. In addition, nuclear PKC activity was highest in untreated and in tumor promoter-treated cells that were not differentiated, and it was lowest in cells induced to differentiate with hexamethylene bisacetamide or dimethylsulfoxide. It is concluded that nuclear PKC activity is essential for Friend erythroleukemia cell proliferation, and that a decrease in enzyme activity within the nucleus is associated with differentiation.
Interaction of legume lectins with the cellular metabolism of differentiated Caco-2 cells.	The binding of the legume lectins Phaseolus vulgaris E4 and L4, Glycine max agglutinin, Vicia faba agglutinin, and Pisum sativum agglutinin to intact differentiated Caco-2 cells and to brush border membranes of differentiated Caco-2 cells was investigated, and their impact on the cellular metabolism and the microvilli of these cells was assessed. P. vulgaris isolectin E4 showed the most intense staining after binding of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled lectin to intact Caco-2 cells. P. sativum agglutinin showed the weakest staining intensity. The dissociation constant for P. vulgaris isolectin E4 and P. sativum agglutinin binding was 0.11 x 10(-5) and 1.69 x 10(-5) mol/L, respectively. The values of the dissociation constants for P. vulgaris isolectin L4, G. max agglutinin, and V. faba agglutinin were situated in between these extremes. Stimulation of thymidine, glucosamine, and fucose incorporation was observed after exposure to P. vulgaris isolectins and soybean agglutinin. V. faba agglutinin had an inhibitory effect, whereas P. sativum agglutinin showed little or no effect. Compared with control cells and P. vulgaris isolectin L4- and P. sativum agglutinin-incubated cells, the microvilli of P. vulgaris isolectin E4-, soybean agglutinin-, and V. faba agglutinin-incubated cells were shortened significantly. The data provide evidence that a correlation exists, not only between the dissociation constants of the lectins and the fluorescent staining intensity, but also between the dissociation constants of the lectins and the extent of the legume lectin-induced changes in the cellular metabolism.
Disruption of mitochondrial energetics and DNA synthesis by the anti-AIDS drug dideoxyinosine.	The purpose of this study was to clarify the role of the mitochondria as a site for the reported hepatotoxic effects of the anti-AIDS drug dideoxyinosine (ddI). Data show that ddI interfered with the mitochondrial redox state in perfused livers leading to more oxidized mitochondria. This effect was reflected by a significant decrease in the mitochondrial NADH/NAD+ ratios from basal values of 0.40 +/- 0.04 to 0.28 +/- 0.02 within 10 min following the infusion of ddI. In suspensions of isolated mitochondria utilizing succinate as a substrate, ddI diminished state 3 and stimulated state 4 respiration significantly, suggesting an uncoupling effect by ddI. Incubation of mitochondria with ddI resulted in a significant decrease in the mitochondrial respiratory control ratios (state 3/state 4 respiration) to 0.8 +/- 0.02 from corresponding control values of 6.0 +/- 0.40 Data also show that ddI inhibited mitochondrial DNA synthesis as evidenced by the decrease in [3H]thymidine incorporation into mitochondrial DNA. This study confirms the need for a close monitoring of patients receiving the dideoxyinosine anti-AIDS drugs and for prompt discontinuation of these drugs before potential irreversible liver damage occurs.
Simultaneous localization of 3H-thymidine incorporation and acid phosphatase activity in mouse spleen: EM radioautography and cytochemistry.	Simultaneous localization of 3H-thymidine incorporation and acid phosphatase (AcP) activity was undertaken by combined radioautography and cytochemistry in the spleen of mice at different ages. The localization of radiolabelled thymidine was used to determine the site of DNA synthesis (cell proliferation), while AcP activity as a marker for cell lysis/death. For EM radioautography (EMRAG), the tissue sections were incubated in a medium containing 3H-thymidine and processed for radioautography, while the lanthanide-based method for the ultrastructural localization of AcP activity was employed. Quantitation of AcP activity was carried out by X-ray microanalysis. In all tissue sections examined, mostly of the labelled nuclei were observed in the hematopoietic cells. Few mitochondria of these cells were labelled. The labeling index was expressed as the percentage of labelled cells over the total number of counted cells. The labeling indices dropped considerably from day one after birth and progressively until the 10th month. The result of AcP activity correlated well with the result of a previous work (Olea, 1991). The localization of radiolabelled thymidine and AcP activity were not hindered by the simultaneous exposure of the same tissue section to 3H-thymidine and AcP cytochemical media. Interestingly enough, the spleen actively participates both in hematopoiesis and erythrophagocytosis. Prominently, it is most active during the early postnatal life. However, their influence declined considerably at the later stage of life (adult stage).
Renewal and proliferation of spermatogonia during spermatogenesis in the Japanese quail, Coturnix coturnix japonica.	Four different types of spermatogonia were identified in the seminiferous tubules of the Japanese quail: a dark type A (Ad), 2 pale A types (Ap1 and Ap2), and a type B. A model is proposed describing the process of spermatogonial development in the quail. The Ad spermatogonia are considered to be the stem cells. Each divides to produce a new Ad spermatogonium and a Ap1 spermatogonium during Stage IX of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. An Ap1 spermatogonium produces two Ap2 spermatogonia during Stage II of the cycle, Ap2 spermatogonia produce four type B spermatogonia during Stage VI of the cycle, and type B spermatogonia produce eight primary spermatocytes during Stage III of the cycle. Consequently, 32 spermatids can result from each division of an Ad spermatogonium. Spermatogonial development in the quail differs from the process described in mammals in that there are fewer mitotic divisions and they are all synchronized with the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. It is suggested that the fewer mitotic divisions explain why a smaller area of the seminiferous tubule is occupied by a cellular association in the quail than in mammals like the rat, ram and bull. The duration of spermatogenesis from the division of the Ad spermatogonia to sperm release from the seminiferous epithelium was estimated to be 12.77 days.
Regulation of insulin-like growth factor I production in rat C6 glioma cells: possible role as an autocrine/paracrine growth factor.	The growth of rat glioma C6 cells, which provide an in vitro model of glial cells, is inhibited by retinoic acid and glucocorticoids, two agents which are important in brain differentiation and growth. To determine whether the growth-inhibitory effects of these agents are mediated by alterations in insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) production, the effects of retinoic acid and dexamethasone on IGF-I production and messenger RNA levels in C6 cells were investigated. IGF-I mRNA levels were determined using a solution hybridization/RNase protection assay. Treatment of C6 cells with dexamethasone or retinoic acid decreased IGF-I mRNA levels in a time-dependent fashion. The time course of the effect of the two agents differed, with the peak effect of dexamethasone between 6 and 12 h and the peak effect of retinoic acid at 27 h. In dose-response studies, IGF-I mRNA levels decreased to 27% of control levels (cells maintained in serum-free media) after treatment with 5 ng/ml dexamethasone, while half-maximal inhibition was achieved with approximately 0.5 ng/ml (1.4 nM) dexamethasone. Treatment with 10 microM retinoic acid decreased IGF-I mRNA levels to 24% of control levels with half-maximal inhibition occurring with approximately 0.5 microM retinoic acid. Cycloheximide prevented the inhibitory effect of these agents on IGF-I mRNA levels, suggesting that their effect is at least partly dependent upon protein synthesis. Immunoreactive IGF-I levels in media conditioned for 48 h by cells treated with dexamethasone or retinoic acid decreased to 32% and 42% of control levels, respectively. Treatment of C6 cells with retinoic acid or dexamethasone decreased thymidine incorporation into DNA. Treatment of cells with IGF-I alone had no effect on thymidine incorporation into DNA, but addition of 10 or 50 ng/ml IGF-I to dexamethasone-treated cells stimulated a small, but significant (P less than 0.01), increase in thymidine incorporation into DNA. IGF-I was not, however, able to reverse the inhibitory effect of retinoic acid. Finally, treatment of cells with 150 ng/ml of IGF binding protein 1 significantly decreased (P less than 0.01) thymidine incorporation into DNA by 17% as compared to incorporation into control cells maintained in serum-free media.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Mitogenic action of gastrin-releasing polypeptide on isolated epiphyseal growth plate chondrocytes from the ovine fetus.	Gastrin-releasing polypeptide (GRP) has been implicated in the development of the human fetal lung. To determine whether GRP has a wider role in fetal development, its actions on DNA synthesis and cell replication by isolated epiphyseal growth plate chondrocytes obtained from ovine fetuses between 35 days gestation and near term (145 days) were examined. Chondrocytes were isolated using collagenase from the proximal tibia and cultured in monolayer. Synthesis of DNA was assessed from the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into previously growth-restricted cells after incubation in medium supplemented with GRP1-27 (40-1280 nM). Increase in cell number was assessed after incubation with test medium for 1 week. GRP caused a dose-dependent increase in both cell number and DNA synthetic rate compared to control incubations. Cell number was increased by 50% in the presence of a maximally effective 160 nM GRP and DNA synthesis by up to 800% utilizing chondrocytes obtained from animals of 75-80 days gestation. The mean (+/- SEM) half-maximal concentration of GRP for the stimulation of DNA synthesis was 97 +/- 12 nM (5 separate fetuses). Concentrations of GRP in excess of 160 nM caused a sharp reduction in both cell replication and DNA synthesis. To determine where within the cell cycle GRP exerted its mitogenic action, synchronized chondrocytes were transiently exposed to fetal bovine serum and cultured with GRP for increasing periods of time before pulse labeling with [3H]thymidine during S phase. GRP was as effective in stimulating DNA synthesis when present for the initial 4 h of G1 as when present for the entire G1 period. Since isolated fetal growth plate chondrocytes release insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II) and basic fibroblast growth factor (basic FGF) the possible mediation of GRP action by the release of these peptides or synergistic interactions were examined. Specific antibodies shown to negate the mitogenic actions of exogenous IGFs or basic FGF on chondrocytes did not alter GRP-stimulated DNA synthesis. The release of radioimmunoassayable IGF II by chondrocytes was not altered in the presence of GRP. Coincubation of GRP with submaximal concentrations of IGF I or basic FGF showed additive effects on DNA synthesis. When the actions of galanin were examined it was found to inhibit basal DNA synthesis by chondrocytes at a concentration of 167 nM. However, 66 nM or greater galanin was able to render 160 nM GRP inactive as a mitogen. These results suggest that GRP may potentially influence skeletal development in the ovine fetus and may interact with locally released peptide growth factors or other neuropeptides.
Androgen receptor expression and 5 alpha-reductase activity along the proximal-distal axis of the rat prostatic duct.	The rat prostate consists of a series of branched ducts that eminate from the urethra. Heterogeneity of rat prostatic growth, secretory activity, and cell turnover has been observed along the proximal-distal axis of the branched ductal network. In addition, there are regional differences in androgen sensitivity along the ducts, with the distal ductal tips being highly androgen dependent and the proximal regions being relatively androgen independent. To determine the underlying mechanisms that may regulate these regional differences in androgen responsiveness, androgen receptor (AR) levels and 5 alpha-reductase activity were examined along the proximal-distal axis of microdissected ventral prostatic ducts from 15-, 30-, and 100-day-old rats. As in the murine prostate, DNA synthetic activity was concentrated in the distal tip region of the 15- and 30-day ducts. Immunocytochemistry and autoradiography with [3H] dihydrotestosterone were used to examine AR expression and functional ability to bind ligand, respectively. The results revealed no discernable differences in AR levels or binding activity in any cell type along the ductal length in prepubertal, pubertal, or adult rats. In addition, 5 alpha-reductase activity was the same in the distal and proximal ductal regions. We conclude that regional heterogeneity in prostatic growth and function is not a result of differences in levels of AR and 5 alpha-reductase. Rather, other region-specific structural, intracellular, or paracrine factors may be responsible for the differences in androgen responsiveness along the prostatic duct.
Autologous transplantation of porcine myogenic precursor cells in skeletal muscle.	Myoblast transplantation is a potential therapy for severe muscle trauma, myopathies and heart infarct. Success with this therapy relies on the ability to obtain cell preparations enriched in myogenic precursor cells and on their survival after transplantation. To define myoblast transplantation strategies applicable to patients, we used a large animal model, the pig. Muscle dissociation procedures adapted to porcine tissue gave high yields of cells containing at least 80% myogenic precursor cells. Autologous transplantation of 3[H]-thymidine labeled porcine myogenic precursor cells indicated 60% survival at day 1 followed by a decay to 10% at day 5 post-injection. Nuclei of myogenic precursor cells transduced with a lentivirus encoding the nls-lacZ reporter gene were present in host myotubes 8 days post-transplantation, indicating that injected myogenic precursor cells contribute to muscle regeneration. This work suggests that pig is an adequate large animal model for exploring myogenic precursor cells transplantation strategies applicable in patients.
Season- and gender-dependent changes in the immune function of Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus).	Siberian hamsters are photoperiodic animals exhibiting seasonality of reproduction and other physiological functions. Thus, the influence of photoperiod on the in vitro activity of selected immune cells from male and female hamsters challenged with peritoneal inflammation was examined.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa lipopolysaccharide induction of keratinocyte proliferation, NF-kappa B, and cyclin D1 is inhibited by indomethacin.	NF-kappaB is activated during acute inflammatory states as well as in other injury response disease states. Several pathologic states in squamous tissue injury response are characterized by increased squamous proliferation. This study was performed to investigate the hypothesis that Pseudomonas aeruginosa LPS is able to activate a proliferative phenotype in squamous cells via NF-kappaB induction and that this NF-kappaB-mediated response may be abrogated with the classic anti-inflammatory agent indomethacin. EMSA, luciferase reporter gene experiments, Western blots, and cellular proliferation assays were performed in normal and transformed human keratinocytes after stimulation with P. aeruginosa LPS. EMSA and luciferase reporter gene assays showed a 3- to 5-fold induction of active NF-kappaB in human keratinocyte cell lines after stimulation with P. aeruginosa LPS. The stimulation correlated with significantly increased cellular proliferation. As one potential mechanism for this increase in proliferation, an NF-kappaB-specific activation of cyclin D1 was observed. Both the NF-kappaB induction and proliferation response were inhibited with indomethacin and in dominant negative stable transfection clones. P. aeruginosa LPS activates proliferation of human keratinocytes, potentially through the induction of NF-kappaB and cyclin D1. These findings suggest that bacterial components can contribute to proliferative disease states in squamous epithelium through NF-kappaB activation.
Use of a double-label method to detect rapid changes in the rate of cell proliferation.	We developed a double-label method to directly measure the rate at which cells enter S-phase of the cell cycle. All cells in S-phase were first labeled with a short pulse of [3H]-thymidine. This was followed by a longer incubation in bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), a thymidine analogue. Nuclei labeled with [3H]-thymidine were detected by autoradiography and those labeled with BrdU by immunocytochemistry. Cells labeled only with BrdU must have entered S-phase at some time after the end of the [3H]-thymidine pulse. Thus, the rate of entry of cells into S-phase could be determined. This method was shown to be more accurate and more sensitive than determining changes in the rate at which cells entered S-phase with a continuous labeling protocol. It was possible to detect changes in proliferative activity that occurred in less than 1 hr. We used this double-label technique to study changes in the cell cycle during the terminal differentiation of chicken embryo lens fiber cells. These studies revealed differences in the effects of several treatments known to stimulate fiber cell differentiation. They also demonstrated the presence in the embryonic eye of factors that stimulate and prevent lens cell proliferation and differentiation.
Effects of choline and quiescence on Drosophila choline acetyltransferase expression and acetylcholine production by transduced rat fibroblasts.	Rat-1 fibroblasts were transduced to express Drosophila choline acetyltransferase. The presence of an active enzyme in these cells (Rat-1/dChAT) was confirmed using various methods. Rat-1/dChAT fibroblasts released acetylcholine (ACh) into the culture medium. Moreover, intra- and extracellular levels of ACh could be increased by adding exogenous choline chloride. In addition, serum starvation or confluence-induced quiescence caused an 80% decrease in recombinant choline acetyltransferase activity (compared with actively growing cells). ACh release was also repressed in quiescent fibroblast cultures. Exogenous choline could mitigate the decrease in ACh release. These results indicate that Rat-1 fibroblasts can be genetically modified to produce ACh and that ACh release can be controlled by introducing choline into the culture medium. Furthermore, these data demonstrate that the expression of the retroviral promoter used in this study decreases with the onset of quiescence; however, exogenous choline can increase the amount of ACh released by quiescent fibroblasts.
Effects of polyunsaturated fatty acids on the proliferation of mitogen stimulated bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	The present study aimed at analysis of the effects of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA), linoleic acid (LA, C18:2n - 6) and linolenic acid (LNA, C18:3n - 3) on bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro. Both mitogen (ConA)-induced proliferative lymphocyte responsiveness during 4 days of culture and eicosanoid (prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4))) production during 36 h were determined in relation to the absence or presence of various concentrations of LA and LNA (0, 1, 5, 25, 125 and 250 microM). Mitogen-driven proliferative responses of lymphocytes tended to be uninfluenced in the presence of lower concentrations of LA, whereas significant inhibition was observed at the higher concentrations of LA (125 and 250 microM). However, increasing amounts of LNA did not affect the proliferation. ConA stimulation induced a clear PGE(2) response, which significantly decreased in the presence of 250 microM of LA. In addition, increasing amounts of LNA, but not LA, led to a significant decrease in LTB(4) levels. However, The production of LTB(4) did not alter due to mitogenic stimulation. In conclusion, the present study shows that bovine mononuclear cells may functionally be influenced by the presence of PUFA in their environment. Further studies need to be conducted to clarify in vivo consequences of these findings in a situation of PUFA enriched rations in ruminants.
Synthesis of 2-(p-chlorobenzyl)-3-aryl-6-methoxybenzofurans as selective ligands for antiestrogen-binding sites. Effects on cell proliferation and cholesterol synthesis.	A series of nonsteroidal compounds, 2-(p-chlorobenzyl)-3-aryl-6- methoxybenzofurans derived from the 2-(p-chlorobenzyl)-6-methoxy-3(2H)-benzofuranones has been synthesized. The key steps in the synthesis were reactions of 2-(p-chlorobenzyl)-6-methoxy-3(2H)-benzofuranones with the arylorganometallic reagents followed by dehydration of the resulting carbinols. The benzofurans are ligands for antiestrogen-binding sites (AEBS) and display no significant interaction with the estrogen receptor (ER). All bind to AEBS with equivalent or greater affinity than tamoxifen. These compounds decrease [3H]thymidine incorporation in AEBS-containing EL4 lymphoid cells and MCF7 breast cancer cells in a concentration-dependent manner between 10(-8) and 10(-6) M and are generally more inhibitory than tamoxifen. In contrast, they have no effect on [3H]thymidine incorporation by an AEBS-deficient variant of the MCF7 cell line, RTx6. The present findings of (1) selective and high affinity binding of the benzofurans to AEBS, (2) their concentration-dependent inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation in AEBS-containing cells, and (3) their lack of antiproliferative effect in an AEBS-deficient cell line suggest a functional role for AEBS in mediating the antigrowth effect of these compounds. Two of the more active benzofuran compounds also significantly inhibited de novo cholesterol biosynthesis in EL4 cells which lack ER. This effect could be obtained after 5 h of treatment and preceded significant loss of cell viability. This is the first demonstration that selective ligands of AEBS (other than the known nonsteroidal antiestrogens) interfere with cholesterol biosynthesis-an action that may contribute to their antigrowth effect.
The challenge to measure cell proliferation in two and three dimensions.	Various assays, using different strategies, are available for assessing cultured cell proliferation. These include measurement of metabolic activity (tetrazolium salts and alamarBlue), DNA quantification using fluorophores (Hoechst 33258 and PicoGreen), uptake of radioactively-labeled DNA precursors such as [3H]thymidine, and physical counting (hemocytometer). These assays are well established in characterizing cell proliferation in two-dimensional (2D), monolayer cultures of low cell densities. However, increasing interest in 3D cultures has prompted the need to evaluate the effectiveness of using these assays in high cell density or 3D cultures. We show here that typical cell proliferation assays do not necessarily correlate linearly with increasing cell densities or between 2D and 3D cultures, and are either not suitable or only rough approximations in quantifying actual cell numbers in a culture. Prudent choice of techniques and careful interpretation of data are therefore recommended when measuring cell proliferation in high cell density and 3D cultures.
Androgens up-regulate the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor in prostate cancer cells.	In this study, we show that androgens up-regulate insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) expression and sensitize prostate cancer cells to the biological effects of IGF-I. Both dihydrotestosterone and the synthetic androgen R1881 induced an approximately 6-fold increase in IGF-IR expression in androgen receptor (AR)-positive prostate cancer cells LNCaP. In accordance with IGF-IR up-regulation, treatment with the nonmetabolizable androgen R1881 sensitized LNCaP cells to the mitogenic and motogenic effects of IGF-I, whereas an IGF-IR blocking antibody effectively inhibited these effects. By contrast, these androgens did not affect IGF-IR expression in AR-negative prostate cancer cells PC-3. Reintroduction of AR into PC-3 cells by stable transfection restored the androgen effect on IGF-IR up-regulation. R1881-induced IGF-IR up-regulation was partially inhibited by the AR antagonist Casodex (bicalutamide). Two other AR antagonists, cyproterone acetate and OH-flutamide, were much less effective. Androgen-induced IGF-IR up-regulation was not dependent on AR genomic activity, because two AR mutants, AR-C619Y and AR-C574R, devoid of DNA binding activity and transcriptional activity were still able to elicit IGF-IR up-regulation in HEK293 kidney cells in response to androgens. Moreover, androgen-induced IGF-IR up-regulation involves the activation of the Src-extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway, because it was inhibited by both the Src inhibitor PP2 and the MEK-1 inhibitor PD98059. The present observations strongly suggest that AR activation may stimulate prostate cancer progression through the altered IGF-IR expression and IGF action. Anti-androgen therapy may be only partially effective, or almost ineffective, in blocking important biological effects of androgens, such as activation of the IGF system.
Hexamethylenebisacetamide selectively inhibits the proliferation of human and rat vascular smooth-muscle cells.	Hexamethylenebisacetamide (HMBA) selectively and reversibly inhibited proliferation of human and rat vascular smooth-muscle cells (VSMCs) compared with endothelial cells, fibroblasts or lymphocytes. Half-maximal inhibition of VSMC proliferation occurred at 2-5 mM-HMBA, and at 30- greater than 50 mM for other cell types. HMBA also prevented de-differentiation, defined by the loss of smooth-muscle-specific myosin heavy chain, of primary rat VSMCs and caused partial re-differentiation of subcultured cells. Other inhibitors of ADP-ribosyltransferase were also selective inhibitors of VSMC proliferation.
Intracellular histamine and liver regeneration: high affinity binding of histamine to chromatin, low affinity binding to matrix, and depletion of a nuclear storage pool following partial hepatectomy.	We have demonstrated in rat hepatocytes that 3H-histamine binds specifically to novel low (microM) and high (nM) affinity sites, designated "HIC" to denote their intracellular location. Low affinity HIC sites are associated with microsomes, while both low and high affinity HIC sites are associated with the nucleus. A growth-regulatory action of intracellular histamine at HIC, independent of the rise in cytosolic calcium, has been demonstrated in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes. We now report that the high affinity HIC sites in liver cell nuclei are associated exclusively with chromatin, while only low affinity sites are found in the residual material containing the nuclear matrix. Moreover, hepatocyte nuclei contain histamine (approximately 1 ng/mg protein), unaffected by incubation for up to 18 hours with the histidine decarboxylase inhibitor, alpha-FMH, suggesting a slow rate of turnover typical of a storage pool. A decrease in nuclear histamine parallels a rise in DNA synthesis in the first 24 hours after partial hepatectomy. Our findings support a role for a nuclear pool of pre-formed histamine in the mediation of liver regeneration.
Inhibitory effects of (1E,3E,5E,7E)-5-hydroxy-4-(8-phenyl-1,3,5,7- octatetraenyl)-2(5H)-furanone on proliferation of human malignant tumor cells.	A butenolide compound (1E,3E,5E,7E)-5-hydroxy-4-(8-phenyl-1,3,5,7- octatetraenyl)-2(5H)-furanone (KNK-41), was shown to have strong anti-tumor activity. KNK-41 inhibited the proliferation of various kinds of human malignant tumor cells, such as HeLa (cervical carcinoma), HGC-27 (gastric cancer), PANC-1 (pancreatic cancer) and GOTO (neuroblastoma). Flow cytometric analysis indicated that KNK-41 caused an arrest in G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle. However, it scarcely affected DNA synthesis and the level of c-myc mRNA. These results suggest that the growth-inhibitory effect of KNK-41 is the result of G0/G1 arrest and not of the suppression of DNA synthesis and/or c-myc expression.
Inhibition of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in vitro by anticancer platinum pyrimidine greens against Daudi cells.	Platinum pyrimidine greens inhibited the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis of tumor cells in the S phase of the cell cycle and exerted antitumor activity. Clear differences were observed in the activity between the samples prepared at 40 degrees C and at 75 degrees C. Using 3H-thymidine incorporation assay and cell cycle analysis we confirmed that the former had much stronger and more specific inhibitory activity against DNA synthesis than the latter. Reactivity of the 40 degrees C sample with deoxyguanosine monophosphate (dGMP) and deoxyadenosine monophosphate (dAMP) was, respectively, two and three times larger than that of the 75 degrees C sample.
Growth hormone stimulates cortical bone formation in immature hypophysectomized rats.	Daily subcutaneous injections of rat derived growth hormone to immature, hypophysectomized rats stimulated significant increases in body weight gain, serum osteocalcin, skeletal alkaline phosphatase and incorporation of radioactive thymidine and proline into the compact bone of femurs and tibiae. Equimolar doses of insulin-like growth factor-II did not produce similar biological effects. The data support the contention that growth hormone at equimolar concentration is a stronger osteogenic agent than is insulin-like growth factor-II in vivo.
A novel point mutation in the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) causing generalized glucocorticoid resistance: the importance of the C terminus of hGR LBD in conferring transactivational activity.	Glucocorticoid resistance is a rare, familial or sporadic condition characterized by partial end-organ insensitivity to glucocorticoids. The clinical spectrum of the condition is broad, ranging from completely asymptomatic to severe hyperandrogenism and/or mineralocorticoid excess. The molecular basis of glucocorticoid resistance has been ascribed to mutations in the human glucocorticoid receptor-alpha (hGRalpha) gene, which impair one or more of the molecular mechanisms of GR action, thus altering tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids. We identified a new case of generalized glucocorticoid resistance in a young woman who presented with a long-standing history of fatigue, anxiety, hyperandrogenism, and hypertension. The disease was caused by a novel, heterozygous mutation (T-->C) at nucleotide position 2318 (exon 9) of the hGRalpha gene, which resulted in substitution of leucine by proline at amino acid position 773 in the ligand-binding domain of the receptor. We systematically investigated the molecular mechanisms through which the natural hGRalphaL773P mutant impaired glucocorticoid signal transduction. Compared with the wild-type hGRalpha, hGRalphaL773P demonstrated a 2-fold reduction in the ability to transactivate the glucocorticoid-inducible mouse mammary tumor virus promoter, exerted a dominant negative effect on the wild-type receptor, had a 2.6-fold reduction in the affinity for ligand, showed delayed nuclear translocation (30 vs. 12 min), and, although it preserved its ability to bind to DNA, displayed an abnormal interaction with the GR-interacting protein 1 coactivator in vitro. We conclude that the carboxyl terminus of the ligand-binding domain of hGRalpha is extremely important in conferring transactivational activity by altering multiple functions of this composite transcription factor.
Enrichment of primary lymphocyte-supporting stromal cells and characterization of associated B lymphocyte progenitors.	Studies of Whitlock/Witte long-term bone marrow cultures have revealed the necessity of two cell types for B lymphopoiesis, a stem cell and the stromal cell. While a number of stromal cell lines exist they have been found to be heterogeneous with respect to cell surface marker expression and growth factor production. Separation and analysis of fresh bone marrow stromal cells is, therefore, necessary to understand the regulation of lymphopoiesis in vivo. Here we report the early stages of such studies. We demonstrate that stromal cells, as assessed by morphology and alkaline phosphatase reactivity after short-term culture, are enriched in cellular aggregates that can be separated from bone marrow suspensions. Stromal cells are present in aggregates at a frequency of one per thousand cells, whereas marrow from which the aggregates have been removed contains only one stromal cell per fifty-thousand cells. These aggregates are able to form Whitlock cultures from greatly reduced numbers of initiating cells, indicating that they contain culturable B lineage precursors as well as stromal cells capable of supporting B lymphopoiesis. The aggregates appear to be naturally formed and provide a means to examine native B cell precursor-stromal cell contacts. We find little evidence for sequestering of late-stage B cell precursors within the aggregates. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-positive cells, on the other hand, are approximately three times more frequent in bone marrow aggregates, suggesting close contact between very early B cell progenitors and stromal cells within the aggregates. The finding that stromal cells are enriched in cellular aggregates is an important first step in the ultimate isolation of these cells from marrow suspensions, which is vital to understanding stromal cell function in vivo.
Is interleukin 6 the physiological regulator of thrombopoiesis?	Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine that also influences megakaryocyte (MK) development. To delineate the relationship between IL-6 and thrombopoietin (TPO), the putative physiological regulator of MK maturation, serum IL-6 levels and platelet counts were correlated in various clinical disorders. IL-6 was measured by a [3H] thymidine incorporation assay using the IL-6-dependent B9 cell line; 1 U is approximately equal to 1 pg/ml of a recombinant (r)IL-6 standard. Specificity of the assay was confirmed by neutralizing rIL-6 and selected sera containing IL-6 activity with anti-IL-6 antibody. Samples (n = 120) were obtained from normal individuals and patients with leukemia, myeloproliferative and rheumatologic disorders, solid tumors, and after bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy. Patients were also grouped as to whether they had an ongoing inflammatory process, that is, an active infection, solid tumor malignancy, or rheumatological disorder. Serum IL-6 levels were 4.6 +/- 1.4 U/ml for normal individuals and ranged up to 14.8 x baseline; moderate increases (greater than 2 x normal) were found in 21.5% of all patients. Whereas only 39% of thrombocytopenic sera (less than 150,000 platelets) had elevated IL-6 levels, 91% of these sera were from patients with an ongoing inflammatory process. Only 29% of the thrombocytotic sera (greater than 400,000) had elevated IL-6 levels, but 86% of these sera were from patients suffering from concurrent inflammation. Overall, 80% of all patients with elevated serum IL-6 had definitive ongoing inflammatory processes. There was no inverse relationship between platelet numbers and IL-6 levels. Thus, the idea that IL-6 is TPO appears doubtful. However, production of IL-6 during inflammation may result in increased platelet numbers and account for the secondary thrombocytosis observed in some patients.
Human interleukin for DA cells (HILDA) does not affect the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells in human long-term bone marrow cultures.	Human Interleukin for DA cells (HILDA), a cytokine also known as leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), induces proliferation without concurrent differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells. Therefore, we investigated the effects of recombinant HILDA/LIF on the proliferation and differentiation of human hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC) grown in long-term bone marrow cultures (LTBMC). Pre-established stromal cell layers were reinoculated with autologous cryopreserved mononuclear phagocyte- and T-lymphocyte-depleted bone marrow cells in the presence or absence of HILDA/LIF (200 U/ml). At weekly intervals cultures were sacrificed, and the cells in the adherent and the nonadherent cell fractions were counted. The numbers of HPC were determined by culturing these cells in semisolid medium stimulated with phytohemagglutinin-stimulated leukocyte-conditioned medium (PHA-LCM), and LTBMC supernatants were assayed in semisolid cultures for the presence of colony-stimulating activity (CSA). The total number of cells, their differential counts, the number of HPC, and the concentrations of CSA in culture supernatants were similar for long-term cultures containing HILDA/LIF and for controls. These data suggest that HILDA/LIF may not play a role in the proliferation and differentiation of normal human (early) HPC in LTBMC. Moreover, HILDA/LIF did not stimulate the proliferation of relatively mature progenitor cells in semisolid cultures, not did it influence the colony formation induced by other colony-stimulating factors (CSF). Finally, using a [3H]thymidine suicide test we could not find an effect of HILDA/LIF on the cell-cycle status of HPC.
Development and characterization of a protein kinase C beta-isozyme-deficient T-cell line.	In the human T-cell lymphoma line, HuT 78, proliferation and phorbol ester-induced growth arrest and differentiation were inhibited by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, staurosporine. By contrast, an alternative PKC inhibitor, H-7, inhibited proliferation but not phorbol ester-induced growth arrest. The cell line was found to contain both alpha and beta isoforms of PKC by Western blot techniques. A cell line, K-4, was cloned from HuT 78 in the presence of H-7 and this clone was found to be positive for PKC-alpha only. PKC-beta did not return on cultivation in the absence of H-7. Proliferation of K-4 was insensitive to inhibition with both H-7 and staurosporine. However, phorbol ester-induced growth arrest remained staurosporine sensitive. Phorbol-stimulated IL-2 secretion was minimal in the PKC-beta-deficient cell line. These data suggest that PKC-beta may be a regulatory enzyme for proliferation and stimulated interleukin-2 secretion in HuT 78 cells. Heterogeneity of responses to PKC activation may reflect the use of different isozymes in different intracellular pathways. The K-4 cell line should provide a useful tool in the dissection of involvement of PKC isozymes in cellular function.
Keloid fibroblasts are refractory to inhibition of DNA synthesis by phorbol esters. Altered response is accompanied by reduced sensitivity to prostaglandin E2 and altered down-regulation of phorbol ester binding sites.	To investigate abnormal growth regulation in keloid fibroblasts, responses to phorbol esters were examined. Treatment of quiescent cultures with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) blocked a normally occurring (20-24 h) peak of serum-stimulated thymidine incorporation in normal and keloid cells. In keloid fibroblasts PMA induced a delayed peak of DNA synthesis. When indomethacin was added with PMA the delayed peak appeared in normal fibroblasts. The ED50 for inhibition of the 20-24-h peak was 1 nM, whereas the delayed peak required a 50-fold-higher PMA concentration. In both cell types PMA induced prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis, and exogenous PGE2 caused 50% inhibition of the 20-24-h peak. When PMA and indomethacin were added with PGE2 the delayed peak was inhibited 90% in normal fibroblasts, whereas inhibition of keloid cells was the same as with PGE2 alone. Normal and keloid fibroblasts had the same number of phorbol ester binding sites. However, in normal cells, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate bound with greater affinity, and down-regulation of phorbol ester binding occurred to a greater extent. These findings suggest that altered expression of protein kinase C isozymes or another molecule that binds phorbol esters may play a role in abnormal growth regulation of keloid cells.
Intracellular signaling by a mutant human insulin receptor lacking the carboxyl-terminal tyrosine autophosphorylation sites.	We have recently characterized a mutant insulin receptor (Y/F2) in which the two tyrosines in the carboxyl terminus (Tyr1316, Tyr1322) were mutated to phenylalanine. Compared with wild type receptors, the Y/F2 receptor exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to insulin-stimulated DNA synthesis with normal insulin-stimulated glucose uptake (Takata, Y., Webster, N. J. G., and Olefsky, J. M. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 9135-9139). In this paper, we present further evidence for the divergence of the metabolic and mitogenic signaling pathways utilized by the insulin receptor. The mutant receptor showed normal sensitivity and responsiveness for insulin-stimulated glucose incorporation into glycogen. The insulin sensitivity for phosphorylation of two substrates (pp180 and pp220) was the same in both Y/F2 cells and HIRc cells. Phosphotyrosine content, however, was greater in Y/F2 cells than in HIRc cells, especially in the basal state. Insulin stimulated S6 kinase activity 2-6-fold, with an ED50 of -10 nM in Rat 1 cells and 0.5 nM in HIRc cells. The sensitivity to insulin was enhanced in Y/F2 cells with an ED50 of 0.1 nM. These effects were insulin-specific, since insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I-stimulated mitogenesis was normal. In summary: 1) Y/F2 receptors exhibit normal metabolic and enhanced mitogenic signaling; 2) the enhanced mitogenic signaling is specific for the insulin receptor in the Y/F2 cells, since IGF-I-stimulated mitogenesis is normal; 3) Y/F2 cells display increased endogenous substrate phosphorylation and augmented insulin-stimulated S6 kinase activity placing these responses among insulin's mitogenic effects; and 4) these results are consistent with the concept that the COOH-terminal tyrosine residues of the insulin receptor are normally inhibitory to mitogenic signaling.
A single amino acid substitution abolishes feedback inhibition of vaccinia virus thymidine kinase.	Exploitation of differences in the substrate specificity of the type I and type II thymidine kinases (EC 2.7.1.21, TK) expressed by the Herpesviridae and Poxviridae (and human cells), respectively, has lead to the development of effective antiherpetic drugs such as acyclovir and gancyclovir. Analysis of type I TK protein sequences reveals a consensus sequence which corresponds to domain IV of type II TK proteins such as that encoded by vaccinia virus (VV). The type I descriptor (Xpho - + + Xpho) differs at the second position from the type II consensus sequence (Xpho Xphi + + Xpho) by having an aspartic acid residue (D) substituted for a glutamine (Q). To test the hypothesis that this substitution may be responsible for the observed differences in substrate specificity of these enzymes and as a approach to identify the nucleoside binding site of the type II VV TK, site-directed mutagenesis was employed to alter glutamine 114 (Q114) within domain IV of VV TK to a histidine (Q114H) or an aspartic acid (Q114D). All of the mutant enzymes retained full enzymatic activity as compared to wild-type VV TK when thymidine or bromodeoxyuridine were used as substrates. However, unlike the wild-type herpes simplex (type 1) TK enzyme, neither wild-type nor domain IV VV TK mutants were able to phosphorylate acyclovir or cytidine substrates. Surprisingly, the domain IV VVTK mutants displayed a dramatic loss of feedback inhibition by dTTP. Mutations of the Q114 position also lead to a difference in ATP binding as demonstrated by an altered elution pattern of Q114H and Q114D from an ATP-agarose affinity column with dTTP. Taken together, these results suggest that domain IV of VV TK is not involved directly in substrate discrimination but instead participates in feedback inhibition by dTTP.
Axonal sprouting and frank regeneration in the lizard tail spinal cord: correlation between changes in synaptic circuitry and axonal growth.	In our previous studies, we found that the number of supraspinal neurons projecting to the level of tail spinal cord increases by 74% during tail regeneration and that the number of local spinal neurons with descending projections increases 233%. However, only a small fraction of the supraspinal axons (less than 4%) and half of the local spinal axons actually enter the regenerated spinal cord. We suggested that this may be the result of "synaptic capture" in which regrowing axons make synapses on denervated targets rostral to the transection, aborting further regeneration. To examine this hypothesis, morphometric analysis of electron microscope (EM) photomontages was used to test for changes in synaptic distribution on ventral horn neurons rostral to regenerating tail spinal cord. In addition, 3H-thymidine and retrograde markers were used to determine whether the regenerate axons arose from cut axons, neurogenesis, or sprouting from uninjured neurons. 3H-thymidine injections during regeneration, combined with retrograde HRP pathway tracing, did not reveal the production of new neurons in the tail spinal cord. To test whether cut axons regenerate, fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugated latex beads were applied to the exposed end of the tail spinal cord. After tail regeneration, HRP was applied to the new spinal cord in the regenerated tail. Examination of local spinal neurons (the primary source of axons that enter the regenerated tail spinal cord) revealed that 28% of the neurons contained both labels. This indicated that cut axons successfully regrew into the new tail spinal cord. The regenerated axons that fail to enter the new tail spinal cord can be found in the normal spinal cord immediately rostral to the regenerated tail. To determine whether these axons were making synaptic contacts, lamina IX ventral horn neurons were examined. EM photomontages of the spinal cord rostral to the regenerate tail revealed the following properties: (1) neurons rostral to regenerated tails are larger in area compare to non-regenerates (mean increase = 112%); (2) axosomatic contacts cover a greater percentage of the neuronal soma following regeneration compared to normal (mean increase = 23%); and (3) this increased innervation is the result of an increase in the number of synaptic boutons rather than larger boutons. The number of synaptic contacts in regenerated lizards returned to normal following lumbar transection, indicating that supraspinal and/or long descending propriospinal afferents were the major source of the increased synaptic contacts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Genes of the thymidine salvage pathway: thymine-7-hydroxylase from a Rhodotorula glutinis cDNA library and iso-orotate decarboxylase from Neurospora crassa.	Genes for two enzymes in the thymidine salvage pathway, thymine-7-hydroxylase (THase; official name thymine dioxygenase) and iso-orotate decarboxylase (IDCase) have been isolated from fungal sources. THase was isolated from a Rhodotorula glutinis cDNA library using a degenerate oligonucleotide based on the published amino acid sequence. The coding sequence was transferred to an Escherichia coli expression system, from which recombinant THase activity was measured using 14C-labeled thymine. The THase sequence shows an almost complete avoidance of codons ending in A or T: 95.8% GC content is present in the third position of codons. A connection between this codon bias and the role of the thymidine salvage pathway in pyrimidine metabolism is proposed. The THase sequence is similar to Group I Fe+2-dependent, alphaKG-dependent dioxygenases. The R. glutinis THase gene was used to locate the probable THase genes in the sequenced genomes of Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans. The genes neighboring THase in these two genomes are similar to each other, and are similar to the mammalian 2-amino-3-carboxymuconate-6-semialdhyde decarboxylase (ACMSD), leading to their identification as IDCase genes. The N. crassa version was isolated by PCR of genomic DNA, and IDCase activity was measured in recombinant E. coli carrying this gene. A new family of decarboxylases, using similar substrates, is identified by virtue of the protein sequence similarity.
Identification of WNK1 as a substrate of Akt/protein kinase B and a negative regulator of insulin-stimulated mitogenesis in 3T3-L1 cells.	Insulin signaling through protein kinase Akt/protein kinase B (PKB), a downstream element of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway, regulates diverse cellular functions including metabolic pathways, apoptosis, mitogenesis, and membrane trafficking. To identify Akt/PKB substrates that mediate these effects, we used antibodies that recognize phosphopeptide sites containing the Akt/PKB substrate motif (RXRXX(p)S/T) to immunoprecipitate proteins from insulin-stimulated adipocytes. Tryptic peptides from a 250-kDa immunoprecipitated protein were identified as the protein kinase WNK1 (with no lysine) by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, consistent with a recent report that WNK1 is phosphorylated on Thr60 in response to insulin-like growth factor I. Insulin treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes stimulated WNK1 phosphorylation, as detected by immunoprecipitation with antibody against WNK1 followed by immunoblotting with the anti-phosphoAkt substrate antibody. WNK1 phosphorylation induced by insulin was unaffected by rapamycin, an inhibitor of p70 S6 kinase pathway but abolished by the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin. RNA interference-directed depletion of Akt1/PKB alpha and Akt2/PKB beta attenuated insulin-stimulated WNK1 phosphorylation, but depletion of protein kinase C lambda did not. Whereas small interfering RNA-induced loss of WNK1 protein did not significantly affect insulin-stimulated glucose transport in 3T3-L1 adipocytes, it significantly enhanced insulin-stimulated thymidine incorporation by about 2-fold. Furthermore, depletion of WNK1 promoted serum-stimulated cell proliferation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, as evidenced by a 36% increase in cell number after 48 h in culture. These data suggest that WNK1 is a physiologically relevant target of insulin signaling through PI3K and Akt/PKB and functions as a negative regulator of insulin-stimulated mitogenesis.
Effects of sodium naproxen on differentiated human chondrocytes cultivated in clusters.	The effects of different pharmacological concentrations of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) sodium naproxen (NAP) were tested on several metabolic functions of differentiated human chondrocytes cultivated in clusters and compared with the action of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). DNA synthesis was significantly inhibited by ASA but not by NAP. Proteoglycan production was also markedly decreased by ASA, while synthesis of type II collagen was not modified. By contrast, NAP did not affect these chondroformative processes. Both NSAIDs were potent inhibitors of prostaglandin E2 production. These results indicate that in terms of the parameters tested NAP does not lead to deleterious effects on human articular chondrocytes cultured in vitro.
Cell kinetics and biochemical parameters in breast cancer.	The study analyzes biochemical and cell kinetic parameters to characterize solid tumor growth in humans. The concentrations of polyamines, CEA, the thymidine labeling index (T.L.I.) and the mitotic index (M.I.) were determined on fragments of neoplastic tissue from 18 patients with breast carcinoma. Urinary polyamines were evaluated in the same patients. Two groups of patients were distinguished according to the median value of the with high T.L.I., M.I. and tissue polyamines were significantly higher than in the group with low T.L.I., whereas tissue CEA was lower, though in a not statistically significant way. Urinary polyamines showed no variations between groups. These preliminary results showed that T.L.I. levels were higher in patients who relapsed during a 4-year follow-up than in patients achieving complete remission and remaining disease free. Results concerning polyamine concentration showed that the tissue polyamine level in breast carcinoma indicated proliferative activity, but this does not seem to be valuable for current prognostic purposes.
Acceleration of adenovirus replication and increased virion production by treatment with the steroid hormone 17 beta-estradiol.	We report here that concentration of an estrogen known to promote enhanced transformation and to increase oncogenicity of rat embryo cells, accelerate the production and increase the yield of progeny virions in adenovirus type 12 (Ad 12)-infected HEp-2 cells. Further, measurement of the incorporation of radioactive RNA and DNA precursors indicated that macromolecular synthesis in the estrogen-treated, infected cells was accelerated. Possible explanations for this observation are discussed.
The estrogenic and antiestrogenic properties of tamoxifen in GH4C1 pituitary tumor cells are gene specific.	We have examined the effects of the antiestrogen tamoxifen (TAM) and the estrogen 17 beta-estradiol (E2) on several estrogen-regulated responses in GH4C1 pituitary tumor cells. After 5 days of treatment with either TAM (1.0 microM) or E2 (1.0 nM), the level of PRL mRNA was markedly increased when measured by the cytosolic dot blot procedure. In contrast, only E2 was able to increase the levels of beta-actin mRNA and cytosolic protein, suggesting that this estrogen may stimulate cell proliferation over the course of treatment. This apparent difference in the abilities of TAM and E2 to stimulate GH4C1 cell proliferation was examined directly. TAM had no effect on cell proliferation as evidenced by its inability to increase cellular DNA or deoxythymidine triphosphate incorporation by nuclei isolated from treated cells. In contrast, E2 stimulated cell proliferation as evidenced by increases in cellular DNA and deoxythymidine triphosphate incorporation by isolated nuclei. The abilities of TAM and E2 to induce progesterone receptor (PR) and PR mRNA were also examined. TAM was unable to increase the levels of PR or PR mRNA, whereas E2 was effective in both of these regards. When added in combination with E2, TAM acted as a classical antiestrogen, partially blocking the induction of PR by E2. To determine whether the inabilities of TAM to stimulate cell proliferation and induce PR were a function of TAM concentration, dose-response experiments were performed. TAM at concentrations ranging from 10(-8)-10(-6) M was effective in inducing PRL mRNA, but at none of the tested concentrations was TAM effective in stimulating cell proliferation or inducing PR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Studies on serum renotropic activity after uninephrectomy in rabbits.	The present study was undertaken to critically examine the hypothesis that circulating renotropin is the primary stimulus for compensatory renal growth. Blood was collected before and after either left nephrectomy or sham operation from a total of 34 rabbits and the serum renotropic activity assessed by the uptake of 3H-thymidine in primary cultures of rabbit kidney cells. Sera obtained after uninephrectomy had significantly more renotropic activity than sera collected before surgery. In some cases, sera obtained after sham operation had more renotropic activity than those collected before, but the mean response was not increased after sham operation. The difference between sera collected before and after uninephrectomy was not transferrable to primary cultures of rabbit liver cells. These data confirm a modest but significant influence of uninephrectomy on the renotropic activity of blood in rabbits.
Pasteurella multocida toxin is a potent inducer of anchorage-independent cell growth.	The growth of many normal cells requires contact with an adhesive substratum, a requirement that is frequently abrogated in the transformed phenotype. We have explored pathways that can lead to the anchorage-independent growth of cultured Rat-1 fibroblasts. Pasteurella multocida toxin (PMT), a 146-kDa mitogenic protein, caused a striking increase in the formation of colonies (greater than 200 microns) from single cells in soft agar. The magnitude of the effect of PMT was greater than that achieved by epidermal growth factor or platelet-derived growth factor. The toxin was extremely potent, with half-maximal and maximal effects observed at 1 and 10 pM PMT, respectively. This concentration dependence of the action of the toxin is similar to that for the stimulation of DNA synthesis in adherent cultures of the cells. Stimulation of colony formation could be achieved by a transient exposure of the cells to PMT and it was blocked by methylamine, indicating that the toxin enters the cells to act. Colony formation was stimulated equally by native and recombinant PMT, but a truncated version (33.5 kDa) of the recombinant toxin was ineffective. PMT antiserum blocked colony formation in response to PMT. In the Rat-1 cells, PMT stimulated the phospholipase C-mediated hydrolysis of inositolphospholipids, as indicated by the stimulation of inositol phosphate release, Ca2+ mobilization, and phosphorylation of a protein kinase C substrate. The results indicate that the deregulation of signal-transduction pathways as elicited by an intracellularly acting bacterial toxin can induce a malignant phenotype.
Pharmacokinetics, metabolic activation, and lung toxicity of cyclophosphamide in C57/B16 and ICR mice.	A single intraperitoneal dose (200 mg/kg) of cyclophosphamide (CP) resulted in significantly less injury to the C57/B16 strain than to the ICR strain of mice. Maximal thymidine incorporation into total lung DNA, an indirect index of lung injury, and pulmonary hydroxyproline content, a marker of fibrosis, were 56 +/- 10% and 69 +/- 9 of ICR mice, respectively. Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of [side chain-3H]CP and [ring-14C]CP were assessed in vivo. In addition, covalent binding and the generation of polar metabolites were determined in hepatic and pulmonary microsomes from both strains. Peak levels and half-lives of radioactivity derived from CP in blood were similar in both strains treated with a 200 mg/kg dose. However, area under curve for total radioactivity over 12 hr was significantly lower (60 and 78% of ICR for 3H and 14C, respectively), and systemic clearance significantly higher (168 and 119% of ICR for 3H and 14C, respectively) in the C57 strain. Total radioactivity derived from CP in lung and liver was similar between strains at all time points examined up to 12 hr, but overall covalent binding of radioactivity, assessed as area under the binding curve, was markedly lower to C57 lungs in vivo (58 and 49% of ICR for 3H and 14C, respectively). In contrast, hepatic binding was not significantly different between strains with either label. No significant differences were evident between strains in hepatic or pulmonary microsomal binding in vitro. Polar CP metabolites in ICR lung were significantly higher than C57 at 2 hr in vivo, but no strain differences were evident at other times nor in the microsomal generation of polar metabolites. These results demonstrate significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of CP between C57 and ICR murine strains. NADPH-mediated activation of CP in vitro was similar between strains suggesting that the increased covalent binding of CP to ICR lung tissue in vivo was due to greater exposure to CP or its reactive metabolites. The relative resistance of C57 mice to CP-induced lung fibrosis may also be influenced by intrinsic differences in response of the lung to reactive CP species, or by differences in activation by other metabolic pathways.
B-myb antisense oligonucleotides inhibit proliferation of human hematopoietic cell lines.	The B-myb gene is highly homologous to the c-myb protooncogene in several domains and also shares some of the functions of c-myb in that it can act as a transcriptional activator. In addition, the expression of both the B-myb and c-myb genes correlates with proliferation of normal hematopoietic cells. We investigated more directly the role of B-myb in proliferation of hematopoietic cell lines using B-myb-specific antisense oligonucleotides. We showed that several anti-B-myb oligonucleotides, complementary to distinct regions of the gene, inhibit significantly and in a dose-dependent manner the proliferation of all myeloid or lymphoid cell lines tested. This block in proliferation was not accompanied by detectable differentiation of U937 or HL60 cells to macrophages or granulocytes either spontaneously or after exposure to chemical agents. These data suggest that the B-myb gene, like c-myb, is necessary for hematopoietic cell proliferation.
Modulation of the epidermal growth factor mitogenic response by metabolites of linoleic and arachidonic acid in Syrian hamster embryo fibroblasts. Differential effects in tumor suppressor gene (+) and (-) phenotypes.	Specific metabolites of arachidonic and linoleic acid have been proposed as serving a regulatory function in growth factor signal transduction in fibroblasts. In studies with Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) fibroblasts, we found lipoxygenase inhibitors to be potent blockers of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-dependent mitogenesis. Analytical chemical characterization of arachidonic and linoleic acid metabolism in SHE cells demonstrated that the major lipoxygenase product was 13-hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid (HODE). EGF stimulation of quiescent SHE cells resulted in an enhancement of HODE biosynthesis. The primary arachidonate products were prostaglandin E2 and F2 alpha formed via the cyclooxygenase pathway. Inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity did not alter the EGF-mitogenic response in SHE cells. Addition of lipoxygenase-derived linoleate metabolites (10(-10)-10(-6) M) produced a 2-4-fold potentiation of EGF-stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation in SHE cells. Interestingly, the linoleate products did not enhance the EGF mitogenic effect in variant SHE cells that had lost tumor suppressor gene function. These results were confirmed by autoradiographic studies of DNA synthesis and suggest that loss of tumor suppressor phenotype correlates with a lack of responsiveness to linoleate products in signal transduction. In studies on the mechanism of EGF regulation of linoleic acid metabolism, inhibitors of EGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity were observed to block EGF-stimulated HODE biosynthesis. In addition, both cyclohexamide and actinomycin D attenuated the ability of EGF to increase linoleic acid metabolism in SHE cells. EGF induction of the linoleate pathway appears to be linked to activation of the EGF receptor and may be modulated at transcriptional or translational levels.
An innovative coating technique for light and electron microscopic autoradiography.	We describe a modified nuclear emulsion coating technique for both electron and light microscopic autoradiography. We propose that by reversing the application of formvar film so that it adheres to and covers thin sections placed on grids, we have developed a technically accessible methodology that produces optimal conditions for the tracing of specific nuclear activity. A smooth, continuous base is formed over the sections on which a monolayer of evenly packed silver halide crystals can be applied by dip-coating. The same principle is applied to pre-stained 1-micron plastic sections of glass slides. We suggest that the application of formvar film over thin sections does not impede or interfere with the exposure of the emulsion by the labeled tissue. On the contrary, it virtually eliminates contamination and background radiation, enhancing the specificity and quality of resolution at even low magnifications. This technical modification, which facilitates the application of the emulsion, could render electron microscopic autoradiography a routine laboratory procedure, allowing for easily reproducible results and quantitative evaluation. At the light microscopic level, this technique prevents chemical fogging caused by certain stains, and thus allows routine pre-staining before coating with emulsion.
Induction of DNA-repair synthesis (UDS) in rat pleural mesothelial cells by urine of subjects exposed to genotoxic agents.	Unscheduled DNA synthesis was determined in confluent rat pleural mesothelial cells arrested in G0/G1 with hydroxyurea by the measurement of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. Cells were treated with concentrated urine or serum from subjects exposed to certain genotoxic agents, i.e. eight cancer patients treated with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy (r/c cancer patients) and six chromium workers. Two additional groups consisted of six nonoccupationally exposed healthy smokers and five control volunteers who were nonsmokers and nonexposed. [3H]thymidine incorporated into DNA of all samples was measured by liquid scintillation counting and of urine samples from r/c cancer patients by autoradiography. Compared to the level observed in untreated cells, a statistically significant increased [3H]thymidine incorporation was found in cells treated with urine from 7 of 8 r/c cancer patients and from 5 of 6 chromium workers. In contrast, urine from control volunteers had no effect on the unscheduled DNA synthesis response and urine from only one smoker significantly enhanced [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. No clear-cut difference between groups was obtained with serum. These results suggest that urine could be useful to monitor subjects exposed to genotoxic agents.
Trapidil inhibits platelet-derived growth factor-induced migration via protein kinase A and RhoA/Rho-associated kinase in rat vascular smooth muscle cells.	Trapidil suppresses platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation by inhibiting Raf-1/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) via cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA). We examined whether trapidil inhibits PDGF-induced VSMC migration and investigated its mechanisms of action. VSMC migration was inhibited to a similar extent by trapidil and forskolin. A PKA inhibitor N-(2-[p-bromocinnamylamino]ethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H89) blocked the inhibition by forskolin to a greater degree than that by trapidil. Trapidil but not forskolin suppressed PDGF-stimulated RhoA activation. In the presence of both H89 and (+)-(R)-trans-4-(1-aminoethyl)-N-(4-pyridyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide dihydrochloride monohydrate, an inhibitor of Rho-associated kinase (ROCK), trapidil and forskolin inhibited migration to a similar extent. Thus, in addition to cAMP/PKA activation, trapidil inhibits RhoA/ROCK activation, which may be important in trapidil's inhibitory effect on migration.
Less mortality but more relapses in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in CD8-/- mice.	Mice lacking in CD8 were generated from homologous recombination in embryonal stem cells at the CD8 locus and bred with the experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)-susceptible PL/JH-2u through four backcross generations to investigate the role of CD8+ T cells in this model of multiple sclerosis. The disease onset and susceptibility were similar to those of wild-type mice. However, the mutant mice had a milder acute EAE, reflected by fewer deaths, but more chronic EAE, reflected by a higher frequency of relapse. This suggests that CD8+ T lymphocytes may participate as both effectors and regulators in this animal model.
Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor has thymidine phosphorylase activity.	Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF), a protein which stimulates angiogenesis in vivo, is shown to have a 39.2% amino acid sequence similarity over a 439 amino acid region with the thymidine phosphorylase of Escherichia coli (E. coli). Using recombinant human PD-ECGF, we show that PD-ECGF has thymidine phosphorylase activity. Analysis by gel chromatography revealed that recombinant human PD-ECGF occurs as a 90 kDa homodimer, similar to other thymidine phosphorylases. In addition to a possible effect on DNA synthesis, PD-ECGF was shown to affect [3H]thymidine assays in a manner which is not related to cell proliferation. The in vitro and in vivo effects of PD-ECGF may thus occur by an indirect mechanism through its enzymatic activity.
Calmodulin regulates DNA polymerase alpha activity during proliferative activation of NRK cells.	When Normal Rat Kidney cells are allowed to reenter the cell cycle after quiescence they start to replicate DNA around 12 h, reaching a maximum at 20 h. Activation of DNA polymerase alpha parallels the increase in DNA synthesis. The addition of two different anti-calmodulin drugs, trifluoroperazine (7.5 microM) or W13 (10 micrograms/ml), to the media at 4 h after proliferative activation, inhibits DNA synthesis by 55% and 80%, respectively. The blockade of calmodulin produced by trifluoroperazine allows the cells to progress through G1 phase but stops progression through S phase as determined by 5-Bromo deoxyuridine labeling. Both anti-calmodulin drugs also inhibit by more than 50% the increase in DNA polymerase alpha activity observed at 20 h. These results indicate that a calmodulin-dependent event, essential for the activation of DNA polymerase alpha and subsequently for DNA replication, is produced during G1. Therefore, the control of DNA polymerase alpha activation is one of the ways by which calmodulin is regulating the progression of NRK cells through S phase.
Glucocorticoid regulation of phospholipid turnover and protein kinase C activity in mouse hepatoma 22 cells.	Glucocorticoids induce growth inhibition in certain sensitive hepatoma cells. To investigate how glucocorticoids interact with growth-factor-dependent pathways, we studied the effects of dexamethasone (Dex) on the DNA synthesis, protein kinase C (PKC) activity and phospholipid turnover in mouse hepatoma 22 cells. Dex was found to reduce DNA synthesis in slowly growing hepatoma cells, whereas exponentially growing cells were Dex-insensitive. Direct measurements of PKC activity in the hormone-sensitive hepatoma 22 cells showed a rapid inhibition (within 30 min) when treated with Dex. Dex addition to hormone-sensitive but not to hormone-insensitive hepatoma 22 cells for 30 min caused a significant decrease of 32P-incorporation into the major cellular phospholipids: phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphoinositides. At the same time, the analysis of the correlation between changes in PKC activity and phospholipid turnover showed that synthesis of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol was under positive control of PKC activity. The data suggest that suppression of phospholipid turnover in hormone-sensitive hepatoma 22 cells is one of the early events caused by glucocorticoids, whereas the decrease of PKC activity induced by the hormone is mediated, probably, via changes in phospholipid metabolism.
Redifferentiation of human hepatoma cell induced by 6-(p-chlorophenyl)-3-[1-(p-chlorophenyl)-5-methyl-1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]-s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (TDZ).	6-(p-Chlorophenyl)-3-[1-(p-chlorophenyl)-5-methyl-1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]-s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (TDZ) is a derivative of various substituted s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazoles, which are associated with diverse pharmacological activities. However, the antitumor activity of TDZ is not well understood. To evaluate its role on tumor cell lines, we have examined the effect of TDZ on two tumor lines: human hepatoma cell (SMMC-7721) in vitro and Sarcoma180 tumor (S180) in vivo. The cytotoxicity of TDZ on human hepatoma cells was assessed using the MTT assay. The inhibition on tumor growth was evaluated by means of trypan blue exclusion test in vitro, and using a Sarcoma180 tumor (S180) animal model in vivo. A scanning electronic microscope was used to discover the morphological changes on cell surface, cell electrophoresis was employed to determine the changes of cell surface negative charges, and alpha-fetoprotein was applied as a biomarker of hepatoma. The effect of TDZ on DNA synthesis was determined by a [3H]-thymidine incorporation assay, and cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry. The IC50 value of TDZ on SMMC-7721 cells was 52.9 microg/ml (48 h). However, TDZ could inhibit the growth of SMMC-7721 cells at concentrations far lower than the IC50 value. Treated with the same low concentrations of TDZ, microvilli on the surface of SMMC-7721 cells decreased obviously, electrophoresis rate of cells reduced from 2.14 microm ms(-1) x V(-1) x cm(-1) of control to 1.54 and 1.56 microm x s(-1) x V-1 x cm(-1), the content of AFP dropped from 205.14 +/- 6.41 ng x mg(-1) Pr to 115.68 +/- 3.47 and 78.57 +/- 2.35 ng mg(-1) Pr, and the DNA replication was inhibited by 26.8% and 45.2%. These results indicated that TDZ may inhibit proliferation of cancer cells by reversing SMMC-7721 cells malignant phenotypic characteristics and inducing redifferentiation. Flow cytometry showed that TDZ-treated cells resulted in a higher proportion of cells in S phase compared with untreated cells, and only when the concentration reached 64 microg/ml, the apoptosis could happen at the rate of 4.2%. Detection of the inhibition of Sarcoma 180 tumor growth in vivo showed that TDZ reduced the tumor weight and 69.08% of the growth was inhibited. TDZ could inhibit the proliferation of tumors in vitro and in vivo; the possible antitumor mechanism might be inducing redifferentiation at a lower dosage on vitro.
Lack of direct mitogenic activity of dichloroacetate and trichloroacetate in cultured rat hepatocytes.	Dichloroacetate (DCA) and trichloroacetate (TCA) are hepatocarcinogenic metabolites of the common groundwater contaminant, 1,1,2-trichloroethylene. DCA and TCA have been shown to induce hepatocyte proliferation in vivo, but it is not known if this response is the result of direct mitogenic activity or whether cell replication occurs indirectly in response to tissue injury or inflammation. In this study we used primary cultures of rat hepatocytes, a species susceptible to DCA- but not TCA-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, to determine whether DCA and TCA are direct hepatocyte mitogens. Rat hepatocytes, cultured in growth factor-free medium, were treated with 0.01-1.0 mM DCA or TCA for 10-40 h; cell replication was then assessed by measuring incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA and by cell counts. DCA or TCA treatment did not alter 3H-thymidine incorporation in the cultured hepatocytes. Although an increase in cell number was not observed, DCA treatment significantly abrogated the normal background cell loss, suggesting an ability to inhibit apoptotic cell death in primary hepatocyte cultures. Furthermore, treatment with DCA synergistically enhanced the mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor. The data indicate that DCA and TCA are not direct mitogens in hepatocyte cultures, which is of interest in view of their ability to stimulate hepatocyte replication in vivo. Nevertheless, the synergistic enhancement of epidermal growth factor-induced hepatocyte replication by DCA is of particular interest and warrants further study.
Effect of several growth factors on canine flexor tendon fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis in vitro.	Growth factor delivery may be useful to accelerate the rate of tendon healing. Before in vivo use, however, the effects of growth factors on tendon cells need to be well characterized. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of 4 growth factors on intrasynovial tendon fibroblast proliferation and collagen production in vitro. Our first hypothesis was that platelet-derived growth factor BB (PDGF-BB) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) would promote cell proliferation and collagen production. Our second hypothesis was that there would be a positive effect from the combination of PDGF-BB and bFGF.
Thrombospondin 1, produced by endothelial cells under the action of erythropoietin, stimulates thymidine incorporation into erythroid cells and counteracts the inhibitory action of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3.	The nature of erythropoietin (EPO)-dependent, erythroid cell regulatory factors secreted by endothelial cells is largely unknown. The production of thrombospondin 1 (TSP-1) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) is increased in cultures of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) incubated with erythropoietin (EPO). Simultaneous incubation of HUVEC with EPO and interleukin 3 (IL-3) resulted in a decreased production, suggesting that both TSP-1 and IGFBP-3 belong to the EPO- and IL-3-dependent erythroid regulatory factors previously described in cultures of bone marrow endothelial cells. TSP-1 and TSP-1 derived synthetic peptides based on the CD36 and CD47 binding sites of TSPs increased thymidine incorporation into bovine erythroid cells of fetal liver. IGBBP-3 inhibited thymidine incorporation in the same cells. Preincubation of erythroid cells with TSP-1 eliminated the inhibitory activity of IGFBP-3. We suggest that EPO-dependent, endothelial-derived TSP-1 may play a positive role in red cell production by acting directly on erythroid cells, stimulating DNA synthesis and preventing the inhibitory action of IGFBP-3.
Bacterial populations and the effect of phosphorus concentration in linear alkyl benzene sulphonate degradation by the OECD screening method.	The evolution of bacterial populations during biodegradation of linear alkyl benzene sulphonate by the OECD screening test was studied by direct microscopic counts, glucose metabolism and thymidine incorporation. Biodegradation dynamics were studied following the disappearance of surfactant and of surface tension. Important variations in bacterial density and activity at the initial stages of degradation were associated with the variability in biodegradation dynamics.
Stimulation of DNA synthesis in pancreatic duct cells by gastrointestinal hormones: interaction with other growth factors.	Pancreatic duct cells of the Syrian hamster were grown as monolayers on thin layers of type I collagen coated onto microporous membranes. The effects of a number of potential trophic factors were tested by their ability to increase [3H]thymidine incorporation into cellular DNA. To measure the effect of growth factors, cells were subjected to a period of growth factor depletion to induce a state of partial quiescence in DNA synthesis. Cells responded with a significant increase in thymidine incorporation after the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) alone or a growth factor mixture containing EGF plus insulin, transferrin, selenium, linoleic acid, bovine pituitary extract, triiodothyronine, and dexamethasone. When the serum substitute, Nu Serum IV (5%, vol/vol), was added to this mixture, addition of several gastrointestinal (GI) hormones including secretin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), bombesin, and gastrin caused significant increases in thymidine incorporation at concentrations of 0.01-1 microM. At 1 microM, these hormones stimulated DNA synthesis relative to their respective control in the order secretin (178%) greater than bombesin (153%) greater than VIP (138%) greater than gastrin (126%). Cholecystokinin octapeptide, a known trophic factor for pancreatic acinar cells, did not cause significant increases in thymidine incorporation in cultured duct cells. These results suggest that pancreatic duct cells possess receptors for a number of GI hormones and respond to the trophic effects of hormones known to stimulate pancreatic growth in vivo.
Histoautoradiographic characteristics of candidiasis pneumonia in combination drug therapy]	The lungs and organs of guinea pigs infected with fungus Candida against the background of cyclophosphamide immunodeficiency and therapy with antibiotics were studied morphologically. Secondary immunodeficiency and dysbacteriosis are shown to influence considerably the ability of fungal cells to utilize DNA and RNA precursors (tritium-labelled thymidine and uridine). Historadioautography allowed one to evaluate functional state of the infectious agent and host cell responses.
Azidothymidine and dipyridamole as biochemical response modifiers: synergism with methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil in human colon and pancreatic carcinoma cells.	Azidothymidine (AZT), inhibiting thymidine kinase (EC 2.7.1.21) (Weber, G. et al., Cancer Commun. 2:129-133, 1990) and dipyridamole, inhibiting nucleoside transport (Zhen, Y.-s. et al., Cancer Res. 43:1616-1619, 1983) exert blocking action on the activities of salvage pathways of nucleotide biosynthesis. Determined by clonogenic assay in human colon cancer HT-29 cells, the cell survivals for AZT, 10 microM, dipyridamole, 5 microM, and methotrexate (MTX), 0.025 microM, were 90, 82, and 62%, respectively; while the combinations of AZT + MTX, dipyridamole + MTX and AZT + dipyridamole + MTX, reduced survivals to 36, 4.3, and 0.7%. AZT or dipyridamole was synergistic with MTX, whereas AZT plus dipyridamole showed an even more marked potentiation of MTX activity. The survivals for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), 0.5 microM, alone, AZT + 5-FU, dipyridamole + 5-FU, and AZT + dipyridamole + 5-FU were 86, 47, 29 and 5.1%, respectively. Similar results were observed in human pancreatic carcinoma BxPC-3 and PANC-1 cells. AZT markedly enhanced the inhibitory effect of dipyridamole in reversing the thymidine-hypoxanthine rescue from MTX cytotoxicity. AZT inhibited [14C]thymidine incorporation into DNA in HT-29 cells and strongly enhanced the effect of dipyridamole. The results indicate that combinations composed of AZT, dipyridamole, and antimetabolites, such as MTX and 5-FU, are potentially effective in the chemotherapy of human neoplasias.
Thymidine and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine metabolism in human peripheral blood lymphocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages. A study of both anabolic and catabolic pathways.	3'-Azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) is HIV-inhibitory in human macrophages, which is surprising in view of the low AZT phosphorylation reported in macrophage extracts. To elucidate the mechanism of AZT activation, we studied AZT anabolism as well as catabolism in human lymphocytes and macrophages, and compared it to that of thymidine. Thymidine kinase (TK)-specific activity in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes was 15 times higher than in macrophages. However, the TK activity per cell was only 1.3 times higher, because of the large macrophage cell volume. Total cellular TK activity, but not specific activity, matched the level of intracellular AZT anabolism. The substrate specificity of TK in macrophages strongly suggests that mitochondrial TK2 was the enzyme phosphorylating thymidine and AZT in these cells, whereas it was cytosolic TK1 in stimulated lymphocytes. In vivo thymidine catabolism was extensive, forming thymine and dihydrothymine. In macrophages more than 95% of the added thymidine (0.5 microM) was degraded within 60 min. AZT, in contrast, was not catabolized, which explains the high AZT nucleotide accumulation, a process opposed only by AZTMP excretion. The lack of catabolism together with phosphorylation by TK2 clarifies how AZT can inhibit human immunodeficiency virus in macrophages. The fact that TK2 and not TK1 phosphorylates AZT in macrophages should have important implications for combination chemotherapy.
The 260-kDa transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta binding protein in rat glomeruli is a complex comprised of 170- and 85-kDa TGF-beta binding proteins.	In a previous study (MacKay, K., Robbins, A. R., Bruce, M. D., and Danielpour, D. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 9351-9356) we showed that rat glomeruli contain transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1 binding proteins with apparent molecular masses of 260, 170, and 85 kDa (Gl-260, Gl-170, Gl-85) as determined by electrophoresis under nonreducing conditions. We demonstrate here that Gl-260 is a complex of 170- and 85-kDa TGF-beta binding proteins. Under denaturing conditions the integrity of Gl-260 is maintained through the cross-linking of one monomer of the disulfide-linked TGF-beta 1 homodimer to Gl-85 and of the other monomer to the 100-kDa subunit of Gl-170. In addition, some Gl-260 complexes are maintained by direct cross-linking of Gl-85 to the 100-kDa subunit of Gl-170. One-dimensional peptide maps of Gl-85 and the 100-kDa subunit of Gl-170 indicate that they have distinctly different ligand binding domains. In contrast, peptide maps of Gl-85 and the type II receptor of normal rat kidney fibroblasts are similar. The biological responses of isolated glomeruli to TGF-beta appear to parallel those of cultured glomerular cells which are without detectable Gl-170 and Gl-260 binding proteins.
In situ [3H]thymidine labelling of human hair papilla: an in vitro autoradiographic study.	The labelling index (LI) and the location of labelled cells in the papilla of human anagen scalp hair have been studied after in vitro [3H]thymidine (3H-TdR) pulse labelling. Forty-three anagen stage VI papillae from 2 individuals (both females, 25 and 55 years) obtained by micropreparation from deep scalp biopsies were analysed. Labelled cells were found only paraaxially in the basal third of the papilla, i.e. below Auber's line. The 3H-TdR-LI of the papilla cells (0.13 and 0.16%) is about 200-times lower than that of the hair matrix cells below the line of Auber (25.5 and 29.5%). The biological significance of this low proliferation rate in the anagen stage VI hair papilla of healthy human should be defined.
Dose-related effects of the hepatocarcinogen, Wy-14,643, on peroxisomes and cell replication.	The dose and time dependency of peroxisome proliferation and hepatocyte replication was evaluated in the liver of rats fed the peroxisome proliferator and hepatocarcinogen, Wy-14,643. Male F344 rats were fed NIH07 diet blended with Wy-14,643 at 0, 5, 10, 50, 100, or 1000 ppm for 1, 3, 6, or 13 weeks. Hepatomegaly was induced by Wy-14,643 at all doses and at all time points. Peroxisome proliferation was present in rats fed 5 ppm Wy-14,643 as early as 1 week, as determined by the peroxisome-specific NAD+ reduction of palmitoyl CoA (PCO) and the peroxisome-associated activity of carnitine acetyltransferase (CAT) (5- and 11-fold over control, respectively). The elevations of PCO and CAT were dose-dependent from 5 to 50 ppm and then plateaued from 50 to 1000 ppm throughout the treatment period. Hepatocellular replication, evaluated by nuclear histoautoradiography ([3H]thymidine labeling, 6-day infusion), was increased in all Wy-14,643 dose groups after 1 week of treatment (5 ppm, 4-fold; 10 ppm, 5-fold; 50 ppm, 13-fold; 100 ppm, 12-fold; and 1000 ppm, 13-fold over controls). However, in 5 and 10 ppm groups this cell replication returned to control levels by 3 weeks. In contrast, 50, 100, and 1000 ppm groups had sustained increases in cell replication up to 13 weeks (13 weeks: 6-, 7-, and 9-fold over controls, respectively). We have demonstrated that Wy-14,643 can induce peroxisome proliferation at 5 ppm, a dose 200 times lower than the dose shown to be highly hepatocarcinogenic in rats (100% incidence by 60 weeks).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Studies on iridoids of tissue cultures of Penstemon serrulatus: isolation and their antiproliferative properties.	Penstemide and serrulatoloside as well as penstemide aglycone and serrulatoloside aglycone were isolated and identified in the calli and suspension cultures of Penstemon serrulatus. The influence of serrulatoloside, penstemide, and its aglycone on the spontaneous proliferation of mouse spleen lymphocytes or hepatoma cells in the Syrian hamster has been estimated in vitro. It has been found that these compounds produce a dose-dependent inhibition of [3H]-thymidine incorporation into the DNA of the examined cells.
Enhanced unscheduled DNA synthesis by secondary cultures of lung cells established from calorically restricted aged rats.	Unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) induced by two exposure levels of ultraviolet light (UV) or two concentrations of methyl methane sulfonate (MMS) was evaluated in secondary cultures of lung fibroblasts established from weanling, 11-month-old and 31-month-old female Fischer 344 rats fed ad libitum (AL) or calorically restricted (CR) diets. [3H]Thymidine incorporation as a function of UDS was highest for weanling-derived cells treated with either UV or MMS, declining consistently with increased age between cells from weanling, 11-month-old and 31-month-old animals. [3H]Thymidine incorporation as a function of UDS in cells from 11-month-old AL vs. CR rats differed only at the highest UV exposure level. In contrast, cells derived from 31-month-old CR rats exhibited UDS levels which were at least twice as high at each UV treatment level as UDS levels of cells derived from the same age AL rats. Cells from both old AL and old CR rats were shown to initiate DNA excision repair at about the same rate. Cells from CR rats, however, repaired DNA damage at an accelerated rate and completed excision repair while repair in cells from AL animals was slower and apparently did not proceed to completion. Data from this study indicate that cells from young and old AL and CR animals initiate excision repair, but demonstrate an age-related loss of UV- or MMS-stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation in cells derived from AL animals. Cells derived from CR animals did not exhibit that age-related loss of UDS activity; rather, they showed an enhanced UDS response to DNA damage and appeared to complete ligation as the final step in excision repair. The data suggest that caloric restriction of a cell donor animal not only delays the age-associated decrease in in vitro DNA excision repair capacity in cells from that animal, but may actually enhance repair capacity.
Turnover of resident microglia in the normal adult mouse brain.	We undertook this study to determine whether the microglia, the resident macrophages of the central nervous system, turn over in the steady-state. The turnover of brain macrophages would lend support to the "Trojan Horse" hypothesis of central nervous system infection, since one origin of replacement cells is the circulating monocyte pool. We combined the immunohistochemical detection of F4/80, a specific macrophage marker, with [3H]thymidine incorporation and autoradiography in normal adult mice. We could detect double-labelled cells in the brains of mice perfused 60 min after isotope administration. Such cells were few in number, randomly scattered throughout the brain and had the morphology of typical resident cells. The labelling index at this survival time was 0.052 +/- 0.003%. Thus resident microglia can synthesise DNA in situ. After longer survival times, we detected larger numbers of double-labelled cells. F4/80+ cells with resident morphology, mitotic figures, pairs of closely apposed (daughter) cells and cells with rounded macrophage-like morphology, all exhibited silver labelling. Twenty-four hours after isotope administration the labelling index was 0.192 +/- 0.052%. From morphologic evidence and comparison of labelling indices at different survival times, we concluded that: (i) resident microglia can synthesise DNA and go on to divide in situ; (ii) cells are recruited from the circulating monocyte pool through an intact blood-brain barrier and rapidly differentiate into resident microglia. We estimate that the two processes contribute almost equally to the steady-state turnover of resident microglia.
Local changes in proteoglycan synthesis during culture are different for normal and osteoarthritic cartilage.	Proteoglycan synthesis of mild-to-moderate osteoarthritic human knee cartilage was compared with that of normal cartilage of the same donor. Immediately after cartilage was obtained, the synthesis rate of proteoglycans was higher for osteoarthritic cartilage than for normal cartilage. Proteoglycan synthesis was then located, for both normal and osteoarthritic cartilage, in the middle and deep zone. However, after 4 days of culture, proteoglycan synthesis rate was higher for normal cartilage than for osteoarthritic cartilage. The reason for this transition from a lower to a higher proteoglycan synthesis rate was a strong increase in the proteoglycan synthesis in the superficial zone of normal cartilage. This was not observed for the osteoarthritic cartilage. The chondrocytes in the superficial zone of osteoarthritic cartilage, in contrast to normal cartilage, were mainly joined in cell clusters and proliferating. This may explain their inability to contribute to proteoglycan synthesis.
Development and cytodifferentiation of peritubular myoid cells in the rat testis.	The cytodifferentiation of peritubular myoid cells was studied in developing rats from fetal day 18 through approachment of puberty. The parameters taken into consideration were 1) the presence of desmin, a component of intermediate filaments in contractile cells; 2) the expression of alkaline phosphatase, a cell surface enzyme present in no other cell type of the seminiferous tubule; 3) the expression of the smooth muscle specific isoform of alpha-actin, a marker of terminal differentiation in smooth muscle cells; 4) cell proliferation rate, evaluated in radioautography as labeling index after incorporation of 3H-thymidine in short-term organ culture; and 5) cytoarchitectural changes detected with scanning electron microscopy. By means of immunofluorescence and cytochemistry it was observed that the three markers are expressed early during life, long before the onset of the first spermatogenic wave; in particular desmin is already present in fetal samples and alkaline phosphatase activity appears a few days after birth, whereas alpha-smooth muscle isoactin is first detected around birth. As for myoid cell replication, the high prenatal labeling index was found to drop soon after birth and to further slow down during the first month of postnatal life, suggesting that myoid cell proliferation is not a major factor in peritubular expansion. SEM examination of developing peritubulum has shown that, when approaching puberty, the myoid cell undergoes a dramatic change in cytoarchitecture, consisting in extreme flattening and cytoplasmic expansion resulting in an apparent increase in peritubular surface.
Cell kinetics of lamina propria fibroblasts in normal adult hamster bronchus.	Forty-nine 12-week-old male Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), weighting 108 to 128 g, were injected i.p. with [3H]-thymidine (3HTdR 2 microCi/g body wt). Animals were divided into 7 weight-matched groups and were killed at 1 hour (day zero) and 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, and 14 days after thymidine injection. Lungs were fixed by vascular perfusion of 4% formalin/1% glutaraldehyde in 0.2 M cacodylate buffer at pH 7.4, cut at 2 microns, dipped in Kodak NTB3 or NTB2 nuclear emulsion, exposed for 2 weeks, developed and stained. In each airway cross-section, total epithelial and fibroblast counts and labeled cell count were estimated. A cell was considered labeled when 3 or more silver grains appeared on its nucleus. The background grain count was less than 1 grain per nucleus. Mean epithelial and fibroblast cell density in a 100 microns segment were respectively 14.8 +/- 0.1 and 6.6 +/- 0.1 cells (the second number is one standard error of the mean). One hour after labeling, their respective labeling indices (L.I.) were 0.13 +/- 0.02 and 1.24 +/- 0.1. On day 1, their L.I. doubled and then returned to the initial value. One hour after labeling, epithelial and fibroblast mean grain counts did not differ significantly. They were respectively 20.6 + 1, and 15.8 +/- 2. Because grain count intensity is closely related to DNA synthetic time, it seems plausible that epithelial and fibroblast synthetic times do not differ much. Cell turnover and cell cycle times were estimated from grain count dilution curves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cell renewal and gene expression in the trachea of hamster at different ages.	The tracheal mucosa of the Syrian golden hamster has been extensively employed as a model system for respiratory tract cell renewal, injury, and carcinogenesis. However, baseline cell kinetic data are not available for normal juvenile and adolescent animals in which the mucosa and cartilage are rapidly enlarging. The objective of this research was to elucidate alterations in cell kinetics, epithelial morphology, and gene expression in the trachea of hamsters at different ages. Cell kinetics were examined by 3H-thymidine labeling indices, morphology by light and electron microscopic examination, and gene expression by slot blot analysis. Results showed that mucosal epithelium of the young and adolescent hamster undergoes cyclic necrosis and cell shedding, exposing portions of the elastic basal lamina. Epithelial shedding was associated with hyperplasia and squamous metaplasia. Additionally, the labeling indices of mucosal epithelial cells and chondroblasts also exhibited variable patterns which were associated with a cyclic pattern of expression of c-fos and c-erbB2 proto-oncogenes and epidermal growth factor receptor.
Cell proliferative activity of epidermal keratinocytes in hair discs.	To clarify the differences in epidermal keratinocyte proliferative activity and in postnatal developmental changes of this activity between the hair discs and the interfollicular epidermis, the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into the nuclei of the basal cells was measured by autoradiography, and the percentages of basal cells thus labelled were calculated. This percentage was higher in hair discs than in interfollicular epidermis at all stages examined. The percentage of labelled basal cells in the hair discs was 10% up to 15 days after birth, decreasing to about 6% from 20 days postnatally. These results suggest that the degree of cell proliferation in the hair disc epidermis differs from that in the surrounding epidermis and that changes in proliferative activity during the postnatal developmental stages are well correlated with the morphogenesis of the hair discs.
Nerve growth factor effects on inhibition by submandibular gland ablation or autonomic denervation of activity-induced parotid growth.	Present data confirm our earlier report that an increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA of parotid gland occurs with reintroduction of solid chow to rats previously maintained on liquid diet; if, however, the submandibular-sublingual glands are removed prior to the dietary substitution, the increase is prevented (present data and [19]). In addition, present data show that administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) to partially sialoadenectomized rats during the 2-day period of dietary change from liquid to solid diet restores thymidine values to the high levels observed following the dietary change in intact animals. However, the increase in gland size that accompanied the change in dietary consistency was not prevented by prior submandibular gland ablation, and administration of NGF had no influence on gland size or cell size. The removal of both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves to the parotid gland prior to the dietary manipulation also suppressed [3H]thymidine incorporation into parotid, and values did not differ from chow controls. The data show that NGF, a submandibular growth factor, has a prominent role in regulation of the autonomically-mediated hyperplastic response. However, neither the submandibular gland nor NGF has an important role in regulation of the increase in gland size that also accompanies the dietary change.
Accurate determination of the time of cell birth using a sequential labeling technique with [3H]-thymidine and bromodeoxyuridine ("window labeling").	During tissue embryogenesis, precursor cells divide actively and eventually withdraw from the mitotic cycle before differentiation. Accurate information about the time of terminal mitosis ("birthdate") of precursors is of vital importance for studying relationships between cell proliferation and differentiation. Methods presently available for birthdate determination, based on "pulse" or "cumulative" labeling with either tritiated thymidine (3HT) or bromodeoxyuridine (BrDU) incorporated into DNA during the mitotic cycle, allow only the approximate timing of terminal mitosis. To overcome this limitation, we have developed a "window labeling" technique based on the sequential administration of 3HT and BrDU. Chick retinal precursor cell cultures were first exposed to 3HT and, after a specified time interval, also to BrDU. After 6 days the cultures were fixed and processed for BrDU immunocytochemistry and 3HT autoradiography. Three populations of cells could be easily identified: (a) unlabeled cells, representing post-mitotic cells before label exposure; (b) BrDU-labeled cells [either 3HT (+)/BrDU (+) or 3HT (-)/BrDU (+)], representing those that continue dividing after the addition of BrDU; and (c) "window-labeled" cells, 3HT (+)/BrDU (-), which are those undergoing their last round of DNA synthesis during the interval between 3HT and BrDU administration. Control experiments demonstrated that this method allows birthdate determinations with a resolution of hours or minutes and is essentially free of deleterious effects on precursor cell survival and differentiation.
Influence of calorie restriction on oncogene expression and DNA synthesis during liver regeneration.	Controlling calorie intake (CCI) extends healthful life-span by a mechanism that may involve reduced rates of cell division without detriment to inducible cellular responses. To test whether inducible cellular proliferation is preserved by CCI and whether the mRNA expression levels of oncogenes activated by cell division can be reduced by CCI, we evaluated the effect of dietary energy on the hepatocellular proliferative burst and on oncogene and growth factor mRNA expression induced by partial hepatectomy. Eighty Fischer 344 rats were separated into two dietary groups and were fed semipurified diets for 10 weeks that differed only in calories by 40%. Mean hepatic levels of [3H]thymidine incorporation were greater among CCI animals at 18, 24, 28, and 36 hr after partial hepatectomy. The expression of c-fos and c-Ki-ras mRNAs, activated during hepatic regeneration, was reduced by CCI. Peak expression of c-fos among ad libitum fed controls to levels 4-6 times greater than prehepatectomy levels was not detected among CCI animals. Protracted elevated expression of c-Ki-ras among ad libitum fed animals was foreshortened by CCI. These findings demonstrate that inducible cellular proliferative responses are preserved by CCI and that the mRNA expression levels of c-fos and c-Ki-ras activated during cell division are reduced by controlling dietary energy. Preserved inducible cellular responses and lowered oncogene expression during cell division may be attributes of the healthful protective effect of CCI.
Rhodamine B inhibits collagen synthesis by human lip fibroblasts in culture.	To investigate the effect of the cosmetic dye, rhodamine B, on the metabolism of collagen in fibroblasts, confluent KD cells, an established cell line of fibroblasts from human lip, were cultured for 6 h in a serum-free medium in the presence of the dye at 100 micrograms/ml and below. It was found that rhodamine B significantly decreased the content of procollagen type I C-terminal peptide antigen in both the cell layer and the medium with an only slight decrease in the cell number. Rhodamine B significantly decreased the incorporation of [3H]proline into either the collagen-digestible protein or the non-collagen protein in the cell layer. The incorporation of both [3H]thymidine and [14C]leucine into the acid-insoluble fraction of the cell layer was significantly decreased by rhodamine B; the activity of lactate dehydrogenase that leaked into the medium was not changed by the dye. From these results, it was suggested that rhodamine B has the capacity of decreasing the collagen content of the fibroblast cell layer of the human lip, which may result from a non-specific inhibition of protein synthesis without non-specific cell damage. Rhodamine B may impair the formation of extracellular matrix which is important for the maintenance of the lip tissue.
The insulin receptor functions normally in Chinese hamster ovary cells after truncation of the C terminus.	We studied the structure and function of the human insulin receptor (IR) and a mutant which lacked the last 43 amino acids of the beta-subunit (IR delta ct). This deletion removed tyrosine (Tyr1322, Tyr1316) and threonine (Thr1336) phosphorylation sites. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, insulin binding to the mutant receptor was normal, and [35S]methionine labeling indicated that both the IR and IR delta ct were processed normally; however, the beta-subunit of IR delta ct was 5 kDa smaller than that of the IR. The time course of insulin-stimulated autophosphorylation of the partially purified IR delta ct was normal, but the maximum autophosphorylation was reduced 20-30%. Tryptic phosphopeptide mapping confirmed the absence of the C-terminal phosphorylation sites and indicated that phosphorylation of the regulatory region (Tyr1146, Tyr1150, Tyr1151) occurred normally; kinase activity of the IR and IR delta ct was activated normally by insulin-stimulated autophosphorylation. In the intact CHO cells, insulin-stimulated serine and threonine phosphorylation of the IR delta ct was reduced 20%, suggesting that most Ser/Thr phosphorylation sites are located outside of the C terminus. During insulin stimulation, the wild-type and mutant insulin receptor activated the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Moreover, insulin itself or human-specific anti-insulin receptor antibodies stimulated glycogen and DNA synthesis equally in both CHO/IR and CHO/IR delta ct cells. These data suggest that the C terminus plays a minimal role in IR function and signal transmission in CHO cells.
A monoclonal anti-idiotypic antibody to mu and delta opioid receptors.	A mouse monoclonal, anti-idiotypic, anti-opioid receptor antibody (Ab2-AOR) has been generated from monoclonal anti-morphine antibodies (Ab1). Hybridoma culture supernatants were screened by a solid phase radioimmunoassay (RIA), based on their competition with radiolabelled morphine for Ab1. One of the Ab2s that gave a positive RIA also competed at rat brain opioid receptors with tritiated opioid ligands dihydromorphine (DHM), naloxone, etorphine, Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe-D-Leu (DADLE), Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGE) and Tyr-D-Pen-Gly-Phe-D-Pen (DPDPE). SDS-PAGE revealed Ab2-AOR to be highly purified after successive affinity and protein A-Sepharose chromatography. Ab2-AOR at concentrations of 10-100 nM competed with both mu- and delta-selective specific ligands for brain opioid receptors. Less than 13 micrograms/ml Ab2-AOR completely inhibited specific opioid radioligand binding to both soluble and membrane-bound opioid receptors. To demonstrate its anti-delta receptor activity further, a double-antibody ELISA procedure was developed that is based on the binding of Ab2-AOR to immobilized NG 108-15 cells (which contain only delta opioid receptors). Dose-dependent, opioid peptide- and opiate alkaloid-competitive binding of Ab2-AOR-containing ascites fluid to NG 108-15 cells was observed. A mu opioid agonist effect was demonstrated for Ab2-AOR, in that it decreased by 70% [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA of fetal brain cell aggregates. This agonist-like action of Ab2-AOR was blocked by naltrexone. The antibody bound specifically to brain tissue sections and the presence of diprenorphine blocked this interaction. Hence, an Ab2 with mu and delta specificity has been characterized.
BALB/c-3T3 fibroblasts resistant to growth inhibition by beta interferon exhibit aberrant platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor signal transduction.	Several lines of evidence now exist to suggest an interaction between the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) growth-stimulatory signal transduction pathway and the beta interferon (IFN-beta) growth-inhibitory signal transduction pathway. The most direct examples are inhibition of PDGF-mediated gene induction and mitogenesis by IFN-beta and the effects of activators and inhibitors of the IFN-inducible double-stranded RNA-dependent eIF2 kinase on expression of PDGF-inducible genes. To further investigate the nature of this PDGF/IFN-beta interaction, we selected BALB/c-3T3 cells for resistance to growth inhibition by IFN-beta and analyzed the phenotypes of resulting clonal lines (called IRB cells) with respect to PDGF signal transduction. Although selected only for IFN resistance, the IRB cells were found to be defective for induction of growth-related genes c-fos, c-myc and JE in response to PDGF. This block to signal transduction was not due to loss or inactivation of PDGF receptors, as immunoprecipitation of PDGF receptors with antiphosphotyrosine antibodies showed them to be present at equal levels in the BALB/c-3T3 and IRB cells and to be autophosphorylated normally in response to PDGF. Furthermore, treatment with other peptide growth factors (PDGF-AA, fibroblast growth factor, and epidermal growth factor) also failed to induce c-fos, c-myc, or JE expression in IRB cells. All of these growth factors, however, were able to induce another early growth-related gene, Egr-1. The block to signaling was not due to a defect in inositol phosphate metabolism, as PDGF treatment induced normal calcium mobilization and phosphotidylinositol-3-kinase activation in these cells. Activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters did induce c-fos, c-myc, and JE in IRB cells, indicating that signalling pathways distal to this enzyme remained intact. We have previously shown that IFN-inducible enzyme activities, including double-stranded RNA-dependent eIF2 kinase and 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase, are normal in IRB cells. The finding that the induction of multiple growth-related genes by several independent growth factors is inhibited in these IFN-resistant cells suggests that there is a second messenger common to both growth factor and IFN signaling pathways and that this messenger is defective in these cells.
Growth factor-like effect of urokinase type plasminogen activator in human renal cells.	Human renal glomerular epithelial cells possess membrane urokinase receptors. Addition of purified active urokinase to these cells in serum free minimum medium induced a dose-dependent increase in 3H-thymidine incorporation and a doubling of cell number after 48 hours of incubation. Both receptor occupancy and enzymatic activity of u-PA were required to stimulate cell proliferation. This effect was inhibited by down regulation of protein kinase C (PKC) or by H7, an inhibitor of PKC. It involved a pertussis toxin-sensitive pathway. This effect of urokinase was additive with EGF but not with thrombin growth factor activity and was not inhibited by aprotinin, an inhibitor of plasmin.
Effects of cyclic nucleotides and phorbol myristate acetate on proliferation of pig aortic endothelial cells.	1 The role of cyclic nucleotides and protein kinase C in controlling proliferation of pig aortic endothelial cells (PAEC) in culture was investigated. 2 Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (30 microM), added twice daily, inhibited proliferation but 8 bromo cyclic GMP (30 microM) had no effect. Two other stimuli known to increase PAEC cyclic GMP content by stimulating particulate and soluble guanylate cyclase respectively, atriopeptin II (10 nM) and sodium nitroprusside (1 microM), were also without effect on proliferation. 3 Two agents known to inhibit soluble guanylate cyclase and lower intercellular cyclic GMP content, haemoglobin (10 microM) and methylene blue (10 microM), each inhibited proliferation of PAEC. 4 The inhibitory effect of haemoglobin (10 microM) was mediated by inhibition of soluble guanylate cyclase since it was reversed by agents known to increase cyclic GMP content, i.e. atriopeptin II (10 nM), 8 bromo cyclic GMP (30 microM) or sodium nitroprusside (1 microM). The inhibitory effect of methylene blue (10 microM) was not reversed by these agents. 5 Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 0.1 nM-1 microM), which activates protein kinase C, inhibited proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner. No early stimulation of proliferation was seen with PMA. The inactive isomer, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (0.3 microM), lacked the ability of PMA to inhibit proliferation of PAEC. 6. PMA-induced inhibition of proliferation appeared not to be due to stimulated production of destructive oxygen-derived free radicals since it was unaffected by the radical scavengers, vitamin E (30 microM) or butylated hydroxytoluene (30 microM). The antiproliferative actions of paraquat (10 microM), an agent which generates free radicals intracellularly, was, in contrast, inhibited by vitamin E or butylated hydroxytoluene. Furthermore, neither dibutyryl cyclic AMP (30 microM) nor 8 bromo cyclic GMP (30 microM) had any effect on the ability of PMA to inhibit proliferation. 7. This study suggests that cyclic AMP, cyclic GMP and protein kinase C play a role in controlling the proliferation of PAEC.
Role of viral ribonucleotide reductase in the increase of dTTP pool size in herpes simplex virus-infected Vero cells.	Infection of Vero cells with herpes simplex virus (HSV) causes a marked increase in the dTTP pool size of infected cells. In this study we examined the relative importance of the HSV-encoded ribonucleotide reductase (RR) and thymidine kinase (TK) in the increase of dTTP. In cells infected with an RR deletion mutant of HSV-1 strain KOS, there was no significant increase in the size of the dTTP pool, whereas the dTTP pool in HSV-1(TK-)-infected cells was increased in size to almost the same extent as that in HSV-1(TK+)-infected cells. Moreover, it was found that the increase in dTTP pool size was strongly inhibited by the addition of hydroxyurea, a specific inhibitor of RR, and 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine, a specific inhibitor of thymidylate synthetase. These results suggest that the induction of viral RR is of primary importance in the increase of dTTP pool size in HSV-1-infected Vero cells.
Involvement of endogenously produced 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-3 in the growth and differentiation of human keratinocytes.	In this study, we investigated the possibility that cultured keratinocytes from normal human adult skin produce 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-3 (1,25(OH)2D3, a biologically active form of vitamin D-3) from 25-hydroxyvitamin D-3 [25(OH)D3], and that 1,25(OH)2D3 endogenously produced by keratinocytes is involved in the self regulation of their growth and differentiation. To determine whether 1,25(OH)2D3 is produced from 25(OH)D3 by skin keratinocytes, 25(OH)[3H]D3 was added to keratinocyte cultures and incubated for 1 h and 5 h. The intracellular and extracellular metabolites were analyzed by three chromatographic systems. The three chromatograms revealed that the major metabolite produced from 25(OH)D3 was 1,25(OH)2D3. Most of the 1,25(OH)2D3 endogenously produced from 25(OH)D3 remained within the cells. To examine the time course of 1,25(OH)2D3 production, the amount of 1,25(OH)[3H]D3 was measured at 15 min, 1 h, 5 h and 10 h, being at a maximum 1 h after the addition of 25(OH)D3. These data indicate that keratinocytes rapidly convert 25(OH)D3 to 1,25(OH)2D3 and that 1,25(OH)2D3 is not released into the medium. To determine whether endogenously produced 1,25(OH)2D3 is involved in the regulation of growth and differentiation of normal human keratinocytes, we examined the effects of 1,25(OH)2D3 and 25(OH)D3 on their growth and differentiation. Keratinocyte growth was inhibited to 52.6% and 23.4% by 10(-8) M and 10(-7) M 1,25(OH)2D3 and to 80.5% and 23.9% by 10(-8) M and 10(-7) M 25(OH)D3, respectively. Differentiation of these cells was evaluated by quantifying the number which express involucrin, a precursor protein of cornified envelope. The population of involucrin expressing cells (differentiated cells) increased from 6.2% to 14.5% by 2.5.10(-7) M 1,25(OH)2D3, and to 11.8% by 2.5.10(-7) M 25(OH)D3. These results clearly indicate that 25(OH)D3 is as effective on human keratinocytes as 1,25(OH)2D3 in inhibiting growth and inducing differentiation, although to a slightly lesser extent than 1,25(OH)2D3. The possibility that the effect of 25(OH)D3 is mediated through binding to the 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor can be excluded, since a competitive binding assay revealed that the affinity of 25(OH)D3 for the 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor in a cytosolic extract of keratinocytes was 100-times lower than that of 1,25(OH)2D3. Thus, these results suggest that 1,25(OH)2D3 endogenously produced in keratinocytes from 25(OH)D3 is involved in the regulation of their growth and differentiation in vitro.
Prostaglandins enhance parathyroid hormone-evoked increase in free cytosolic calcium concentration in osteoblast-like cells.	Prostaglandins (PGs) are autocrine or paracrine hormones that may interact with circulating hormones such as parathyroid hormone (PTH) in bone. We examined the interaction of the PGs, PGF2 alpha, PGE2, and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha with PTH to enhance the rapid, initial transient rise in free cytosolic calcium ([Ca2+]i) and cAMP levels stimulated by PTH. Pretreatment of UMR-106, MC3T3-E1, and neonatal rat calvarial osteoblast-like cells by PGs resulted in an enhancement of the early transient rise in [Ca2+]i stimulated by PTH. PGF2 alpha was approximately 100 times more potent than PGE2. PGE2 itself was more potent than 6-keto-PGF1 alpha in enhancing PTH-stimulated rise in [Ca2+]i. Near-maximal augmentation was achieved at PGF2 alpha doses of 10 nM and PGE2 of 1 microM. The degree of augmentation in [Ca2+]i by PGF2 alpha was independent of preincubation time. PGF2 alpha pretreatment did not alter the EC50 for the PTH-induced [Ca2+]i increase but only the extent of rise in [Ca2+]i at each dose of PTH. The augmented increase in [Ca2+]i was mostly due to enhanced PTH-mediated release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. PGF2 alpha did not stimulate an increase in PTH receptor number as assessed by [125I]-PTH-related peptide binding. PG pretreatment partially reversed PTH inhibition of cell proliferation, suggesting that an increase in [Ca2+]i may play a role in tempering the anti-proliferative effect of PTH mediated by cAMP. These studies suggest a new mode by which PGs can affect cellular activity.
Lithium increases tritiated thymidine uptake by abnormal human parathyroid tissue.	Patients receiving lithium for the management of manic depressive disorders appear to be at increased risk for development of hypercalcemia. Some (but not all) clinical studies and several in vitro studies suggest that lithium alters release of parathyroid hormone. Because hypercalcemia may result from an increase in the mass of parathyroid tissue, we studied the in vitro effect of lithium on tritiated thymidine (3H-TdR) incorporation as a measure of DNA synthesis. Dispersed cells from previously cryopreserved tissue from 18 patients undergoing surgery for single-gland hyperparathyroidism (adenoma) and five patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism were incubated with graded concentrations of lithium chloride and, after a 5-day incubation, were pulsed with 3H-TdR. Adenoma cells exposed to 2.0 mmol/L lithium (therapeutic level is approximately 0.8 to 2.0 mmol/L) demonstrated increased 3H-TdR incorporation compared with cells not exposed to lithium (average increase 56%). Secondary hyperplasia cells exhibited a similar but less striking response. There was no lithium-induced 3H-TdR incorporation in four preparations with normal bovine parathyroid cells. We conclude that lithium in therapeutic doses increases 3H-TdR incorporation into adenoma cells, may serve as a mitogen for human parathyroid adenoma, and could promote or accelerate hyperparathyroidism.
An evaluation of thymidine phosphorylase as a means of preventing thymidine rescue from the thymidylate synthase inhibitor raltitrexed.	The antitumour effect of thymidylate synthase inhibitors such as raltitrexed (RTX) may be reversed by salvage of thymidine (Thd). Since thymidine phosphorylase (TP) depletes Thd, the potential for tumour-selective depletion of Thd using antibody-mediated delivery of TP to tumours was investigated. In vitro studies demonstrated that 25 x 10(-3) units/ml TP depleted extracellular Thd (3 microM) and restored sensitivity to the growth inhibitory effects of RTX in Lovo and HT29 cell lines. Thymidine concentrations in xenograft tumours were inversely proportional to the activity of TP in the tumour, and the presence of a subcutaneous Lovo xenograft reduced plasma Thd concentrations from 0.92 +/- 0.07 to 0.37 +/- 0.04 microM. Intravenous administration of native TP enzyme depleted plasma Thd to 5 nM, but following rapid elimination of TP, plasma Thd returned to pretreatment values. There was no effect on tumour TP or Thd. Conjugation of TP to the A5B7 F(ab)2 antibody fragment, which targets carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expressed on colorectal cell-lines such as Lovo, did result in selective accumulation of TP in the tumour. However, there was no tumour-selective depletion of Thd and there did not appear to be any potential benefit of combining antibody-targeted TP with RTX.
Incorporation and distribution of tritium in rats after chronic exposure to various tritiated compounds.	Rats were chronically exposed to tritiated water (3HHO) and several tritiated organic compounds [( 3H]leucine, [3H]lysine, [3H]glucose, [3H]glucosamine, [3H]thymidine and [3H]uridine) dissolved in their drinking water. An analysis of tritium in wet and dry tissues of rats at the end of 22 days' chronic exposure showed that the chemical form of the ingested tritium was more important for tritium uptake in dry tissues than in wet tissues. The concentrations of tritium in dry tissues (organically bound tritium: OBT) after the exposure to tritiated organic compounds were consistently higher than after the exposure to 3HHO. The highest concentrations of OBT were found in rats exposed to tritiated amino acids [( 3H]lysine and [3H]leucine), which were 4-9 times higher than those in rats exposed to 3HHO. The next higher concentrations of OBT were found in rats exposed to [3H]uridine. The result of radiation dose estimations at the end of chronic exposure showed that the contribution of OBT to the total dose rate was higher in the tissues of rats exposed to tritiated organic compounds than that after the exposure to 3HHO. However, the differences between the total dose rates from 3HHO and those from tritiated organic compounds were within a factor of 2.
Physiological deterioration associated with breeding in female mice: a model for the study of senescence and aging.	Longevity is a complex and dynamic process influenced by a diversity of factors. Amongst other, gestation and lactation contribute to organismal decline because they represent a great energetic investment in mammals. Here we compared the rate of senescence onset observed in primary fibroblast obtained from the lungs of retired female breeder mice (12 months old), with the senescence arrival observed in fibroblasts derived from age-matched nulliparous mice. Two-month-old animals were also used as controls of young, fully-developed adults. Cell proliferation, DNA synthesis, and expression of senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity were evaluated as senescent parameters. In order to test differences in energetic competence at a systemic level, mitochondrial respiration was also evaluated in mitochondria isolated from the livers of the same animals used for the primary cultures. Our data indicated that the cells derived from female mice subjected to the physiological stress of breeding onset into replicative senescence prior than the cells from female mice age-matched without that particular stress. Thus validating the use of retired breeders as a model to study aging and senescence at the cellular level.
Mitochondrial DNA depletion and thymidine phosphate pool dynamics in a cellular model of mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy.	Mitochondrial (mt) neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE) is an autosomal recessive disease associated with depletion, deletions, and point mutations of mtDNA. Patients lack a functional thymidine phosphorylase and their plasma contains high concentrations of thymidine and deoxyuridine; elevation of the corresponding triphosphates probably impairs normal mtDNA replication and repair. To study metabolic events leading to MNGIE we used as model systems skin and lung fibroblasts cultured in the presence of thymidine and/or deoxyuridine at concentrations close to those in the plasma of the patients, a more than 100-fold excess relative to controls. The two deoxynucleosides increased the mt and cytosolic dTTP pools of skin fibroblasts almost 2-fold in cycling cells and 8-fold in quiescent cells. During up to a two-month incubation of quiescent fibroblasts with thymidine (but not with deoxyuridine), mtDNA decreased to approximately 50% without showing deletions or point mutations. When we removed thymidine, but maintained the quiescent state, mtDNA recovered rapidly. With thymidine in the medium, the dTTP pool of quiescent cells turned over rapidly at a rate depending on the concentration of thymidine, due to increased degradation and resynthesis of dTMP in a substrate (=futile) cycle between thymidine kinase and 5'-deoxyribonucleotidase. The cycle limited the expansion of the dTTP pool at the expense of ATP hydrolysis. We propose that the substrate cycle represents a regulatory mechanism to protect cells from harmful increases of dTTP. Thus MNGIE patients may increase their consumption of ATP to counteract an unlimited expansion of the dTTP pool caused by circulating thymidine.
Impact of constitutive IGF1/IGF2 stimulation on the transcriptional program of human breast cancer cells.	Insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling is a key regulator of breast development and breast cancer. We have analyzed the expression of the IGF signaling cascade in 17 human breast cancer and 4 mammary epithelial cell lines. Five cell lines expressed high levels of IGF1 receptor, insulin (INS)/IGF receptor substrate 1, IGF-binding proteins 2 and 4, as well as the estrogen receptor (ESR), indicating a co-activation of IGF and ESR signaling. Next, we stably overexpressed IGF1 and IGF2 in MCF7 breast cancer cells, which did not affect their epithelial characteristics and the expression and localization of the epithelial marker genes E-cadherin and beta-catenin. Conversely, IGF1 and IGF2 overexpression potently increased cellular proliferation rates and the efficiency of tumor formation in mouse xenograft experiments, whereas the resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs such as taxol was unaltered. Expression profiling of overexpressing cells with whole-genome oligonucleotide microarrays revealed that 21 genes were upregulated >2-fold by both IGF1 and IGF2, 9 by IGF1, and 9 by IGF2. Half of the genes found to be upregulated are involved in transport and biosynthesis of amino acids, including several amino acid transport proteins, argininosuccinate and asparagine synthetases, and methionyl-tRNA synthetase. Upregulation of these genes constitutes a novel mechanism apparently contributing to the stimulatory effects of IGF signaling on the global protein synthesis rate. We conclude that the induction of cell proliferation and tumor formation by long-term IGF stimulation may primarily be due to anabolic effects, in particular increased amino acid production and uptake.
Biological correlation between HER-2/neu and proliferative activity in human breast cancer.	HER-2neu alterations (amplification and overexpression), proliferative activity (3H-Thymidine-Labeling Index, 3H-Tdr-LI) and tumor ploidy (flow-cytometry) were analyzed in a human breast cancer series. Overexpressed tumors showed a significantly higher median 3H-Tdr-LI than normally expressed (p = 0.04), as also did amplified/overexpressed with respect to non-amplified/normally expressed (p less than 0.04). These differences were confirmed only in N-primary tumors. In fact, high expressed cases demonstrated a median 3H-Tdr-LI of 5.5% with respect to 1.9% for low expressed cases (p = 0.04) and amplified/overexpressed had a 3H-Tdr-LI of 9% with respect to 2% for non amplified/low expressed (p = 0.009). HER-2/neu alterations were not correlated with tumor DNA content.
The diverse effects of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine on enzyme activities in cultured H35 hepatoma cells.	Reuber (H35) hepatoma cells were grown in medium containing 10(-5)M bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), which was incorporated into their DNA. Cell growth rate was unaffected by BrdU for the first two generations, after which it was reduced by about 50%. The effect of BrdU incorporation on the activities of several enzymes with rapid turnover rates was examined to test the hypothesis that the synthesis of such enzymes will be preferentially inhibited by BrdU. Tyrosine amino-transferase (TAT) activity decreased by 70% within two generations whereas thymidine kinase activity remained at control values. PEP carboxykinase activity was unchanged during the first generation in BrdU-containing medium but, during the second, its activity increased by at least 30%. Ornithine decarboxylase levels decreased by about 50% only after two generations in the presence of BrdU. There appeared to be no simple relationship between turnover rates and the effect of BrdU on enzyme activity. Incorporation of BrdU was found to inhibit the induction of both TAT and PEP carboxykinase by dexamethasone and to enhance the inhibition of cell growth by this steroid. These results are discussed with respect to possible mechanisms of gene expression and development in both normal and neoplastic cells.
Effect of pH and human serum albumin on the cytotoxicity of a glucuronide prodrug of 9-aminocamptothecin.	9-aminocamptothecin glucuronide (9ACG) is a prodrug of 9-aminocamptothecin (9AC) that displays potent antitumor activity against human tumor xenografts in nude mice. Camptothecins exist in a pH dependent equilibrium between active lactone and inactive carboxy forms that can be altered by binding to human serum albumin (HSA). Here we investigated the influence of pH and HSA on the lactone-carboxy equilibrium, HSA binding, and cytotoxicity of 9ACG.
Cytotoxic activity of Apomine is due to a novel membrane-mediated cytolytic mechanism independent of apoptosis in the A375 human melanoma cell line.	Apomine, a novel bisphosphonate ester, has demonstrated anticancer activity in a variety of cancer cell lines; however, its mechanism of cytotoxicity is not well understood. Previous work has demonstrated that Apomine induces cell death by activation of caspase-3 in several cancer cell types. However, we have demonstrated that Apomine induces cell death in the A375 human melanoma cell line through a novel membrane-mediated mechanism that is independent of caspase-3 activation. This mechanism of membrane lysis may apply to other bisphosphonates and may be an important mechanism for overcoming resistance to apoptosis. Interestingly, Apomine-mediated cell death in the A375 and UACC 3093 human melanoma cell lines is also independent of N-Ras farnesylation, which was a previously described mechanism of action for Apomine in other cancer cell types. These data suggest that Apomine induces cell death through a novel plasma membrane-mediated cytolytic pathway, independent of caspase-3 activation and N-Ras farnesylation.
Cardiac fibroblasts are predisposed to convert into myocyte phenotype: specific effect of transforming growth factor beta.	Cardiac fibroblasts are mainly responsible for the synthesis of major extracellular matrix proteins in the heart, including fibrillar collagen types I and III and fibronectin. In this report we show that these cells, when stimulated by transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), acquire certain myocyte-specific properties. Cultured cardiac fibroblasts from adult rabbit heart were treated with TGF-beta 1 (10-15 ng/ml) for different periods of time. Northern hybridization analysis of total RNA showed that cells treated with TGF-beta 1 for 24 hr expressed mRNA corresponding to sarcomeric actin mRNA. Immunofluorescence staining and light microscopy showed that cultured cardiac fibroblasts treated with TGF-beta 1 became stained with a monoclonal antibody to muscle-specific actin. After treatment of quiescent cells with TGF-beta 1, cell proliferation (as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation) was moderately increased (1.5-fold, P less than 0.001). NIH 3T3 cells and human skin fibroblasts, treated with TGF-beta 1, did not express sarcomeric actin mRNA. Treatment of cardiac fibroblasts with the mitogenic agent phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or with norepinephrine, angiotensin II, or interleukin 1 beta did not induce myocyte-specific actin mRNA. Cultured cardiac fibroblasts at the subconfluent stage, when exposed to TGF-beta 1 in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum, gave rise to a second generation of slowly growing cells that expressed muscle-specific actin filaments. Our findings demonstrate that cardiac fibroblasts can be made to differentiate into cells that display many characteristics of cardiac myocytes. TGF-beta 1 seems to be a specific inducer of such conversion.
Expression of protein disulfide isomerase in cultured rat liver epithelial cells is unrelated to the growth inhibitory effect of TGF-beta 1.	The effect of TGF-beta 1 treatment on the level of protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) mRNA in normal and chemically or spontaneously transformed rat liver epithelial cell lines was investigated. TGF-beta 1 at 1 or 10 ng/ml concentrations did not significantly decrease the mRNA level of PDI at 4 or 24 hours after exposure to TGF-beta 1, irrespective whether the cell line was sensitive or resistant to the growth-inhibitory effect of TGF-beta 1 at these concentrations. The results indicate that in normal or neoplastic rat liver epithelial cells, the expression of PDI is unrelated to the growth inhibitory effect of TGF-beta 1.
Modulation of HeLa cell growth by transfected 7SL RNA and Alu gene sequences.	Alu and 7SL RNA gene sequences were tested for the potential to regulate mammalian cell growth by introducing these sequences into HeLa cells in a coupled DEAE-dextran transfection/affinity cell sorting system. Both Alu and 7SL RNA genes mediated inhibition of [3H]thymidine and [35S]methionine incorporation in recipient cells. In addition, short term growth curves were performed on calcium phosphate/DNA cotransfected, affinity-purified cells. This second assay revealed that transfected Alu and 7SL RNA can also cause suppression of HeLa cell proliferation. To investigate whether transcription or polymerase III (pol III) transcription factor binding was required for inhibitory activity, mutations were introduced into RNA pol III B block promoter elements in each of these genes. Suppression of [3H]thymidine incorporation was dependent on the presence of this pol III element in both genes; likewise, 7SL RNA-mediated growth suppression required the presence of the pol III B block promoter element. The results of this study indicate that Alu and 7SL RNA gene sequences interact with cellular factors that are important for HeLa cell proliferation and suggest that these pol III-transcribed elements may be involved in the regulation of cellular growth.
Early phenotype expression of cortical neurons: evidence that a subclass of migrating neurons have callosal axons.	The use of [3H]thymidine labeling in combination with various axonal transport tracers has revealed that a subset of migrating neurons in the fetal monkey cerebrum issue axons to the opposite cerebral hemisphere while still migrating to their final positions in the cortical plate. Other cortical neurons with the same "birthdate" (i.e., that underwent their last round of DNA synthesis on the same day) are not retrogradely labeled by tracer injections of the opposite hemisphere. These findings suggest that the cardinal distinction between projection and local circuit neurons may be specified in postmitotic neurons before they acquire their final positions in the cortex.
Evidence for differential responsiveness of human CD5+ and CD5- B cell subsets to T cell-independent mitogens.	Tonsillar resting B cells were separated into CD5+ and CD5- cell subsets and stimulated with the thymus-independent mitogens, Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain I (SAC) or insolubilized anti-mu monoclonal antibodies (a mu Ab). CD5+ cells incorporated [3H]thymidine more efficiently than unfractionated cells when stimulated with SAC and their response was augmented by the addition of interleukin (IL) 2 to the cultures. CD5+ cells also proliferated in response to a mu Ab provided that IL 2 was present, SAC-, but not a mu Ab-stimulated CD5+ cells produced IgM and IgG molecules when IL 2 was added to the cultures and also secreted autoantibodies with rheumatoid factor activity and sometimes also with anti-single-stranded, but not double-stranded, DNA activity. The efficient response of CD5+ cells was not explained by the fact that they contained cells already activated in vivo. Thus, they did not express the CD23, CD69, CD71 and CD39 activation markers, failed to incorporated [3H]thymidine and to secrete Ig spontaneously or in response to IL 2 and were found to be in a quiescent state by cell cycle flow cytometric analysis. In contrast to CD5+ cells, CD5- cells displayed very little or no [3H]thymidine incorporation in response to SAC or to a mu Ab and their poor responsiveness was not altered by changing either the doses of the stimulants, the timing of the cultures, by co-culturing the cells together with CD5+ cells, or by adding IL 2 or IL 4. Immunofluorescence studies showed that freshly prepared CD5- cells did not have surface activation markers but that they expressed them following SAC stimulation. Thus, unlike that observed for CD5+ cells, SAC seems to be capable of activating CD5- cells but does not appear to be a sufficient stimulus for driving the cells into the subsequent phases of the cell cycle. The above findings, that demonstrate marked differences in the response to CD5+ and CD5- cells to thymus-independent stimuli, may bear relevance for the understanding of the normal clonal expansion of CD5+ cells as well as for the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases.
Preservation of specific RNA distribution within the chromatin-depleted nuclear substructure demonstrated by in situ hybridization coupled with biochemical fractionation.	Biochemical fractionation procedures previously shown to remove 95% of cellular protein, DNA, and phospholipid, were combined with fluorescence in situ hybridization to provide a critical evaluation of the retention and spatial preservation of specific primary transcripts within the chromatin-depleted nuclear substructure, operationally defined as the nuclear "matrix." This unique approach made it possible to directly address whether nuclear extraction procedures preserve, create, or destroy ribonucleoprotein filament structures. Comparison of nuclei before and after fractionation demonstrated that localized foci or "tracks" of specific nRNA are unambiguously retained in the nuclear matrix preparation. Two well-characterized nuclear fractionation procedures were used and three Epstein-Barr virus-infected cell types investigated, including latently and permissively infected cells carrying integrated or episomal genomes. The EBV primary transcripts as well as nucleolar RNA were preserved within the remaining nuclear substructure with unambiguous spatial and quantitative fidelity. Image processing and quantitative microfluorimetry, together with [3H]thymidine labeling of DNA, show that essentially 100% of the RNA signal intensity remained after removal of 85% of the DNA. That the native RNA distribution was unchanged was shown in other experiments in which the same individual nRNA tracks were examined before and after fractionation. Results conclusively demonstrate that the tight restriction of RNA to highly localized sites is independent of bulk DNA removal and of extensive extraction of proteins and phospholipids. Hence, this work provides direct visual evidence that the primary transcripts studied are localized via their binding to, or comprising part of, non-chromatin nuclear substructure.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, not granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, co-operates with retinoic acid on the induction of functional N-formyl-methionyl-phenylalanine receptors in HL-60 cells.	The interaction of colony-stimulating factors (CSF) and retinoic acid (RA) in the proliferation and differentiation of HL-60 cells was examined. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) stimulated the proliferation of HL-60 cells in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations of 0.01-100 ng/ml; however, the proliferation due to GM-CSF was suppressed by 100 nM RA. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) slightly stimulated the proliferation of HL-60 cells at concentrations above 10 ng/ml. Neither G-CSF nor GM-CSF alone induced 12-o-tetra-decanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA)- or N-formyl-methionyl-phenylalanine (FMLP)-stimulated nitro-blue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction at concentrations of 0.01-100 ng/ml. G-CSF induced TPA- and FMLP-stimulated NBT reduction in the presence of 100 nM RA, but GM-CSF induced only TPA-stimulated NBT reduction. RA in addition to G-CSF synergistically increased FMLP binding to HL-60 cells, accompanied by increased NBT reduction in response to FMLP. RA in addition to GM-CSF markedly increased FMLP binding to HL-60 cells more than that induced by RA alone, but the combined treatment with RA and GM-CSF did not increase FMLP-stimulated NBT reduction more than that induced by RA alone. The results suggest that G-CSF stimulates RA-induced morphological and functional differentiation of HL-60 cells, but the differentiation-enhancing effects of GM-CSF are limited, whereas the growth-stimulating effect of GM-CSF on HL-60 cells is greater than that of G-CSF.
Erythropoietin is both a mitogen and a survival factor.	Erythropoietin (Ep) regulates the proliferation and differentiation of erythroid progenitor cells, but whether it functions solely as a survival factor or also acts as a mitogen is unresolved. Because late erythroid progenitor cells (CFU-E) are largely in cell cycle, we examined this issue by using an Ep-dependent, murine erythroleukemia cell line, HCD-57. In the presence of human Ep and fetal calf serum, HCD-57 cells had a doubling time of approximately 24 hours, and during log-phase growth approximately 36% of the cells were in G1, 45% in S, and 19% in G2/M. With Ep deprivation, there was a gradual loss of viability and an arrest of proliferation with a 44% increase in the G0/G1 population, which could be reversed by reexposure to Ep even after 72 hours of hormone withdrawal. As little as 2 hours of exposure to Ep was sufficient to stimulate DNA synthesis, and the lag time for initiation of DNA synthesis after exposure to the hormone was approximately 10 hours as measured by either incorporation of labeled thymidine into DNA or cell cycle analysis by flow cytometry. RNA synthesis, by contrast, was initiated within 2 hours after exposure to Ep and did not require DNA synthesis. Total cell DNA content increased after exposure to Ep, indicating that it was acting as mitogen in HCD-57 cells. Ep was also able to stimulate DNA synthesis in the absence of serum as well as in its presence, indicating that the hormone could act as both a competence and a progression factor. Qualitative analysis of the integrity of HCD-57 DNA by electrophoresis in agar as well as direct measurement of DNA fragmentation after metabolic labeling with radioactive thymidine indicated that programmed cell death was occurring that could be reduced but not completely prevented by Ep. These data indicate that Ep acts as both a mitogen and a survival factor for HCD-57 cells.
Transmembrane form of the kit ligand growth factor is determined by alternative splicing and is missing in the Sld mutant.	The ligand (KL) for the c-kit receptor is a growth factor encoded at the mouse steel (Sl) locus. KL exists in both cell surface and soluble forms, though little is known of the regulation and functional significance of these forms. We show here that tissue-specific alternative splicing gives two types of KL mRNA. Both encode a transmembrane domain, but in transfected cells one produced the soluble form of KL at relatively high levels, whereas the other preferentially gave the cell surface form. Cell surface KL not only stimulated proliferation, but also mediated cell-cell adhesion. The SId allele, which impairs development of hematopoietic cells, melanocytes, and germ cells, has a deletion in the KL gene removing the transmembrane and intracellular domains. Expression of a corresponding cDNA gave a soluble protein that stimulated cellular proliferation but was not associated with the cell surface. These results provide evidence that cell surface KL has a critical role in the intact organism.
Characterization of a cell line derived from rhabdoid tumor of kidney.	Rhabdoid tumor of kidney (RTK) is a rare, highly malignant childhood neoplasm of uncertain histogenesis. Several recent studies have described considerable histochemical heterogeneity among cases of RTK, with confusing combinations of epithelial, mesenchymal, myogenous, and neuroepithelial markers in some tumors. The present study characterizes the histology, ultrastructure, histochemistry, cytogenetics, and oncogene expression in a cell line derived from RTK. The surgical specimen, nude mouse xenograft, and cell cultures demonstrated characteristic intermediate filament whorls by electron microscopy and expressed vimentin (diffusely) and cytokeratin (focally, in hyaline cytoplasmic inclusions) without detectable desmin, Thy-1, or epithelial membrane antigen. S-100 protein was absent in the surgical specimen and heterotransplant, and was seen very weakly and focally in the cell cultures. Light microscopic features of cultures were unchanged by several compounds (tissue plasminogen activator, nerve growth factor, cyclic adenosine monophosphate) which induce differentiation of some other pediatric neoplasms. The growth factor requirements of RTK cultures indicate a cell with mesenchymal features. Insulin-like growth factor-2 mRNA was detected in the RTK and in three Wilms' tumors also studied. Unlike most Wilms' tumors, RTK expresses the c-myc rather than the N-myc oncogene.
Depressed DNA synthesis in vitro by early prepubertal undescended human testis.	To study the spermatogenic potential of the early prepubertal inguinal testis and the effect of temperature on spermatogenesis, the levels of incorporation of 3H-thymidine and 14C-uridine into the testicular tissue were studied at 31 degrees C and 37 degrees C in vitro and compared with those of scrotal (descended) testis. 3H-thymidine incorporation into the inguinal testicular tissue at 31 degrees C, which is close to normal testicular temperature, was significantly lower than that of the scrotal testis. There was no significant differences in 14C-uridine incorporation between inguinal and scrotal testis at that temperature. At 37 degrees C, which is close to normal body temperature, 3H-thymidine and 14C-uridine incorporation into the tissues of inguinal and scrotal testes was significantly higher than at 31 degrees C. It would appear that DNA synthesis of the inguinal testis is lower than that of the scrotal testis at 31 degrees C, and higher temperature, at least for a short while, did not contribute to the impairment of spermatogenic potential in early prepubertal inguinal testis.
In vitro temperature sensitivity of DNA, RNA, and protein syntheses throughout puberty in human testis.	To evaluate the optimal temperature for DNA, RNA, and protein syntheses in the prepubertal, pubertal, and postpubertal human testis, the levels of incorporation of 3H-thymidine, 14C-uridine, and 14C-leucine into cultured testicular tissue were studied at 28 degrees C, 31 degrees C, 34 degrees C, 37 degrees C, 40 degrees C, and 43 degrees C. The maximum level of 3H-thymidine incorporation in prepubertal testes occurred at 37 degrees C, whereas the maximum incorporation in the pubertal and postpubertal testes occurred at 31 degrees C. Incorporations of 14C-uridine and 14C-leucine in the three groups were temperature dependent (28 degrees C to 37 degrees C). DNA synthesis by germ cells in the pubertal and postpubertal testes was maximum at 31 degrees C and was impaired at body temperature (37 degrees C), whereas in the prepubertal testis it was temperature dependent with a maximum at 37 degrees C. RNA and protein synthesis in the three groups was temperature dependent at 28 degrees C to 37 degrees C, was depressed at 40 degrees C, and remarkably depressed at 43 degrees C.
Changes in macromolecular synthesis of gypsy moth cell line IPLB-Ld652Y induced by Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus infection.	The aberrant replication of the Autographa californica multiple-enveloped nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) in the Lymantria dispar cell line IPLB-Ld652Y was used as a model system for the investigation of factors regulating baculovirus host specificity. A previous study of this system indicates that viral gene expression in infected cells is extremely attenuated and subsequently all cellular and viral protein synthesis is inhibited. In the present study, infection of IPLB-Ld652Y cells with AcMNPV photochemically inactivated in situ resulted in a rapid reduction in cell mitotic indices and cell growth, as well as inducing a series of distinct morphological changes in these cells. At the molecular level, infection with inactivated virus, followed by pulse labelling with [3H]thymidine, resulted in a rapid [0 to 2 h post-infection (p.i.)] and permanent inhibition of host cellular DNA synthesis. Assays of cellular DNA polymerases in isolated IPLB-Ld652Y nuclei confirmed the reduction in cellular DNA synthesis observed in intact cells and indicated an initial (0 to 2 h p.i.) reduction in the activity of aphidicolin-sensitive DNA polymerases. Activity of all cellular DNA polymerases was inhibited at later times p.i. Host cell protein synthesis was completely inhibited after 48 h p.i. Treatment of inactivated virus and virus-infected cells with various chemical and physical factors (i.e. pH and temperature) or lysosomotropic agents revealed that virus entry into cells and fusion of endocytic vesicles (containing virus) with lysosomes were essential for suppression of cellular macromolecular synthesis. The possible involvement of structural components of the AcMNPV virion in these effects is discussed.
Proliferative responses to interleukin-3 and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor distinguish a minor subpopulation of CD34-positive marrow progenitors that do not express CD33 and a novel antigen, 7B9.	Human hematopoietic colony-forming cells (CFC) express the CD34 antigen (CD34+) as well as differentiation antigens such as CD33 and HLA-DR. CD34+ cells that do not express these latter differentiation antigens have been shown to contain few CFC in direct culture, but generate increasing numbers of CFC when cultured over a marrow stromal cell layer in the long-term culture system. In this study we determined if CD34+ cells with low or absent expression of CD33 and a novel antigen, 7B9 (CD34+CD33-7B9-), could be distinguished from CD34+ cells expressing these antigens (CD34+CD33+7B9+) based on their proliferative responses to interleukin-3 (IL-3) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in a short-term liquid culture system. These two populations were separated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, cultured with IL-3 (10 ng/mL), G-CSF (100 ng/mL), or IL-3 and G-CSF, and 3H-thymidine uptake was measured. CD34+CD33-7B9- cells proliferated in the presence of IL-3, but not G-CSF. However, a synergistic response to the combination of IL-3 and G-CSF was seen in most experiments. In contrast, CD34+CD33+7B9+ cells proliferated in the presence of either IL-3 or G-CSF but did not display an additive or synergistic response to the combination of IL-3 and G-CSF. In colony-forming assays performed before and after liquid culture, the CD34+CD33-7B9- cells in two experiments contained 0.3% and 2.2% of all sorted marrow CFC before liquid culture and generated 40-fold and ninefold increases in the number of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-GM), respectively, after liquid culture with IL-3 and G-CSF. In contrast, the CD34+CD33+7B9+ cells contained 99.7% and 97.8% of all sorted marrow CFC before liquid culture and had no change or a threefold increase in the number of CFU-GM, respectively, after liquid culture with IL-3 and G-CSF. Single-cell liquid cultures containing IL-3 and G-CSF with cells that were either CD34+CD33-7B9- and depleted of mature lymphoid cells (CD34+lin-) or were CD34+lin+ showed that a higher proportion of wells containing a CD34+lin- cell gave rise to one or more CFC (8.7%) than did wells containing a CD34+lin+ cell (2.9%), with the responding cells in the former population giving rise to an average of 2.9 +/- 0.6 CFC and in the latter population, 2.0 +/- 1.0 CFC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Protective effect of Didymocarpus pedicellata on ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) induced renal oxidative stress and hyperproliferative response.	Didymocarpus pedicellata R. Br. (Gesneriaceae) is widely used in traditional Indian medicines against renal afflictions. In the present study, we have revealed ethanolic extract of aerial parts of D. pedicellata to possess significant antioxidant activity and protect against ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) mediated renal oxidative stress, nephrotoxicity and tumor promotion response. D. pedicellata extract was found to possess a high content of total polyphenolics, exhibit potent reducing power and significantly scavenge free radicals including several reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS). The extract also significantly and dose-dependently protected against Fe-NTA plus H(2)O(2)-mediated damage to lipids and DNA. Protective efficacy of the extract was also tested in vivo against Fe-NTA mediated nephrotoxicity and tumor promotion response. Administration of Fe-NTA (9 mg/kg body weight, i.p.) to Swiss albino mice depleted renal glutathione content and activities of antioxidant and phase II metabolizing enzymes with concomitant induction of oxidative damage. Fe-NTA also incited hyperproliferation response elevating ornithine decarboxylase activity and [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation into DNA. Elevation in serum creatinine (SCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and histopathological changes were also evident and suggested Fe-NTA to afflict damage to kidney. Pretreatment of mice with D. pedicellata extract (100-200 mg/kg body weight) for 7 days not only restored antioxidant armory near normal values but also significantly protected against renal oxidative stress and damage restoring normal renal architecture and levels of renal damage markers, viz., BUN and SCr. The results of the present study indicate D. pedicellata to possess potent antioxidant and free radical scavenging activities and preclude oxidative damage and hyperproliferation in renal tissues.
Constitutive activation of MAPK/ERK inhibits prostate cancer cell proliferation through upregulation of BRCA2.	BRCA2 is central to an utterly diverse biological behavior elicited after integrin-mediated normal and prostate cancer cell adhesion to basement membrane (BM) and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Unlike normal cells, adhesive stimuli in cancer cells activate PI 3-kinase/AKT signaling resulting in BRCA2 degradation and unchecked cancer cell proliferation and metastasis. However, the precise mechanisms involved in normal BRCA2 homeostasis are unknown. We investigated ERK and AKT phosphorylation in normal (PNT1A) and cancer (PC-3) prostate cells after adhesion to ECM and the effects upon BRCA2 and cell proliferation. PNT1A cell adhesion to ECM triggered MAPK/ERK signaling resulting in upregulation of BRCA2 mRNA and protein, with negligible effects upon cell proliferation. Disruption of MAPK/ERK with PD98059 prevented any BRCA2 upregulation inhibiting DNA synthesis below basal levels. PC-3 cells exhibited a defective MAPK/ERK pathway that was unresponsive to adhesion to the ECM, which instead triggered PI 3-kinase/AKT signaling leading to BRCA2 protein depletion and cell proliferation. Reconstitution of MAPK/ERK by recombinant expression of a constitutively active form of MAPK kinase 1 (MEK1) effectively reversed the neoplastic phenotype by increasing BRCA2 expression and preventing any aberrant cell proliferation at rest and upon interaction with ECM proteins. Our results suggest that aberrant loss of MAPK/ERK activity in prostate cancer may play a pivotal role in the malignant phenotype, and provide evidence that interventions aimed at bypassing the signaling block are able to effectively reverse neoplastic unchecked cell proliferation.
Reduction of fatal graft-versus-host disease by 3H-thymidine suicide of donor cells cultured with host cells.	The effect of the tritiated thymidine (3H-TdR) suicide technique on the ability of donor cells to induce fatal graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was studied. C57BL/6 (H-2b) spleen cells were stimulated in vitro with irradiated BALB/c (H-2d) Moloney lymphoma cells in mixed culture and 3H-TdR of high-specific activity added to eliminate proliferating cells. The ability of such cells to induce fatal GVHD was assayed by injecting them i.v. into adult BALB/c mice immunosuppressed with cyclophosphamide (180 mg/kg). These cells induced fatal GVHD in fewer mice (52 per cent) than did C57BL/6 cells cultures with BALB/C lymphoma cells but without 3H-TdR (87%) and C57BL/L cells cultured with irradiated C57BL/6 cells with (95 per cent) or without 3H-TdR (86 per cent). Thus, the 3H-TdR suicide technique greatly diminished the ability of cells to induce lethal GVHD.
Cytotoxic effect of spermine on retinal pigment epithelial cells.	A prior study showed inactivation of ornithine-delta-aminotransferase (OAT)-deficient human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells by a specific irreversible inhibitor (5-fluoromethylornithine; 5-FMO) leading to cell death, in an in vitro model of gyrate atrophy (GA) of the choroid and retina. In the present study, the cytotoxicity of metabolites of ornithine, especially spermine, in RPE cells was investigated, to clarify the mechanism of ornithine cytotoxicity in RPE cells.
Adenosine triphosphate stimulates thymidine incorporation but does not promote cell growth in primary cultures of renal proximal tubule cells.	Acute addition of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) stimulated thymidine incorporation in confluent, quiescent primary cultures of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells in a dose-responsive manner. Similar increases in thymidine incorporation was observed with adenosine diphosphate and adenosine monophosphate but not with adenosine. The effect of chronic administration of ATP, however, suppressed cell growth. This suppression appears to be due to an effect of ATP to cause detachment of cells from culture plates, resulting in an increase in thymidine incorporation acutely but in suppression of cell growth chronically. ATP is, therefore, not a direct growth promoter of renal proximal tubule cells in primary culture.
Saponins from Tribulus terrestris L are less toxic for normal human fibroblasts than for many cancer lines: influence on apoptosis and proliferation.	The objective of the study was to explore the influence of saponins derived from Tribulus terrestris L. (TT) on normal human skin fibroblasts and to compare it with their anticancer properties. In this study, [3H]thymidine incorporation and MTT to assess cell proliferation and viability, respectively, and immunoblotting and HPLC analysis to explore intracellular signal transduction pathways have been used. We found that TT caused a dose-dependent decrease in [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA of treated fibroblast compared to the untreated controls. Viability of treated cells remained within the control levels with treatment of up to 5 micro g TT/ml medium. It was significantly depressed with incubation in > or =6 micro g TT/ml medium with an IC50 of 12.6 micro g TT/ml of cultivating media. ERK1/2 was significantly dephosphorylated at 5 mins of incubation with TT until the 48th hour, when phosphorylation slightly recovered, but was still below the control levels. In contrast, p38 and JNK phosphorylation was positively influenced, with peaks at 1 hr and 24 hrs of incubation respectively. Phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events of SAPK/MAPK clearly correlated with Mkp-1 induction. Procaspase 3 was activated after 5 mins of incubation and coincided with a rapid actin cleavage. There was a significant decrease of putrescine concentration and a concomitant increase of spermidine and spermine at 2 mins of treatment. According to our results, TT is less toxic for normal human skin fibroblasts in comparison to many cancer lines investigated in previous studies. The molecular mechanism of this cytotoxicity involves up- and downregulation of polyamines' homeostasis, suppression of proliferation, and induction of apoptosis. Further research in this field using animal models would help to explore and interpret the potential properties of TT as an anticancer supplement.
Identification of a competitive HGF antagonist encoded by an alternative transcript.	We identified a naturally occurring hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) variant, whose predicted sequence extends only through the second kringle domain of this plasminogen-related molecule. This smaller molecule, derived from an alternative HGF transcript, lacked mitogenic activity but specifically inhibited HGF-induced mitogenesis. Cross-linking studies demonstrated that the truncated molecule competes with HGF for binding to the HGF receptor, which has been identified as the c-met protooncogene product. Thus, the same gene encodes both a growth factor and its direct antagonist.
Biocompatibility of hydroxyapatite-coated hip prostheses.	In three patients a mechanically well-fixed Mathys Ceros 80 (Ha) hydroxyapatite-coated acetabular component was revised 2, 5 and 13 months after total hip replacement due to component malposition. In each case there was a thin cellular connective tissue membrane between hydroxyapatite and bone, the main cell type being fibroblast with only occasional giant cells. Immunohistological analysis revealed some MHC locus II antigen positive cells that were identified as monocytes. No interleukin-2 receptor positive cells were found. Under clinical cyclic loading conditions there does not seem to be chemical fixation or bony ingrowth into the hydroxyapatite coated prosthesis component. In human lymphocyte cultures, hydroxyapatite (Interpore 200, particle diameters 15-40 microns) did not cause an increase in lymphocyte DNA synthesis as assessed by the 3H-thymidine incorporation method on culture days 1, 3 and 5. As analysed with lymphocyte activation markers, the hydroxyapatite-dependent expression of MHC locus II antigen was modest and differed significantly (P less than 0.05) from that in culture medium only on day 3. Hydroxyapatite induced only a slight interleukin-2 receptor expression that did not differ from culture medium on days 1, 3 and 5. CD4 and CD8 positive lymphocytes as well as monocytes were not seen attached to hydroxyapatite particles during the culture days. Our findings suggest that hydroxyapatite is an immunologically inert implant material.
Zidovudine inhibits thymidine phosphorylation in the isolated perfused rat heart.	Zidovudine (AZT; 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine), a thymidine analog, has been a staple of highly active antiretroviral therapy. It is phosphorylated in the host to the triphosphate and functions by inhibiting the viral reverse transcriptase. However, long-term use of AZT is linked to various tissue toxicities, including cardiomyopathy. These toxicities are associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion, which is hypothesized to be caused by AZT triphosphate inhibition of mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma. In previous work with isolated heart mitochondria, we demonstrated that AZT phosphorylation beyond the monophosphate was not detected and that AZT itself was a potent inhibitor of thymidine phosphorylation. This suggests an alternative hypothesis in which depletion of the TTP pool may limit mitochondrial DNA replication. The present work extends these studies to the whole cell by investigating the metabolism of thymidine and AZT in the intact isolated perfused rat heart. [3H]thymidine is converted to [3H]TTP in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The level of [3H]TMP is low, suggesting that the reaction catalyzed by thymidine kinase is the rate-limiting step in phosphorylation. [3H]AZT is converted in a time- and concentration-dependent manner to AZT monophosphate, the only phosphorylated product detected after 3 h of perfusion. Both compounds display negative cooperativity, similar to the observations with cloned and purified mitochondrial thymidine kinase 2. The presence of AZT in the perfusate inhibits the phosphorylation of [3H]thymidine with a 50% inhibitory concentration of 24+/-4 microM. These data support the hypothesis that AZT-induced mitochondrial cardiotoxicity may be caused by a limiting pool of TTP that lowers mitochondrial DNA replication.
Cyclosporin a improves pregnancy outcome by promoting functions of trophoblasts and inducing maternal tolerance to the allogeneic fetus in abortion-prone matings in the mouse.	The embryo expresses paternal antigens foreign to the mother, and therefore has been viewed as a natural allograft. Cyclosporin A (CsA) is an immunosuppressant for preventing allograft rejection. Little is known, however, about the modulating effect of CsA on the materno-fetal relationship. In this study, pregnant CBA/J female mice mated with DBA/2 or BALB/c male mice as abortion-prone and normal pregnancy matings were administered, respectively, with CsA at Day 4 of gestation. We demonstrated that the administration of CsA at the window of implantation resulted in maternal T-cell tolerance to paternal antigen, and it improved pregnancy outcome in the CBA/J multiply sign in box DBA/2 abortion-prone matings. CsA administration enhanced Th2 and reduced Th1 cytokine production at the materno-fetal interface, and it expanded peripheral CD4(+)CD25(+) FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells in abortion-prone matings, implying development of Th2 bias and regulatory T cells. On the other hand, we observed that treatment with CsA led to enhanced growth and invasiveness of trophoblasts in the abortion-prone matings. Together, these findings indicate that CsA in lower dosages can induce materno-fetal tolerance and improve the biologic functions of trophoblast cells in the abortion-prone matings, leading to a successful pregnancy, which is useful in clinical therapeutics for spontaneous pregnancy wastage and other pregnancy complications.
Culture and stimulation of tammar wallaby lymphocytes.	We describe the culture and stimulation of lymphocytes from the model marsupial, the tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii). We also describe the capacity of tammar wallaby lymphocytes isolated from blood, spleen and lymph nodes to produce soluble immunomodulatory factors. Culture conditions were optimized for mitogen-driven stimulation using the plant lectin phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). Products secreted by stimulated cells were harvested and crudely fractionated before they were added back to freshly isolated lymphocytes. Using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, both stimulatory and inhibitory bioactive factors were detected in serum-free supernatants harvested from mitogen-treated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. This paper describes the capacity of leukocytes of the tammar wallaby to respond to mitogenic stimulation and to produce soluble, low-molecular-weight bioactive molecules that possess cytokine-like activity.
Enhanced post-stationary-phase survival of a clinical thymidine-dependent small-colony variant of Staphylococcus aureus results from lack of a functional tricarboxylic acid cycle.	The mechanisms underlying the persistence of the Staphylococcus aureus small-colony variant (SCV) are not fully elucidated. In this study, clinical thymidine-dependent SCVs displayed altered expression of citB, clpC, and arcA genes, reduced acetate catabolization, and enhanced survival. These results implicate the importance of changes in tricarboxylic acid cycle and acetic acid metabolism in SCV survival and persistence.
Functional characteristics of connective tissue growth factor on vitreoretinal cells.	Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) level is elevated in eyes with proliferative vitreoretinal diseases, such as proliferative diabetic retinopathy and proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR), as we previously reported, but its functional characteristics on vitreoretinal cells are yet to be clarified. In this study, we demonstrated a growth-promoting effect of CTGF on cultured hyalocytes and bovine retinal pigment epithelial cells (BRPEs) with the induction of p44/p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation. CTGF also stimulated the synthesis of fibronectin by hyalocytes and BRPEs without significant effect on collagen gel contraction by these cells. On the other hand, CTGF had no direct effects on the proliferation, migration, or in vitro tube formation by vascular endothelial cells. Nevertheless, CTGF promoted vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene expression by hyalocytes and BRPEs. Although the concentrations of both CTGF and VEGF in the human vitreous samples with proliferative vitreoretinal diseases were elevated, there was no significant correlation between these concentrations. These findings indicate that CTGF appears to be involved in the formation of proliferative membranes without direct regulation of their cicatricial contraction in the pathogenesis of proliferative vitreoretinal diseases. Whereas CTGF might have no direct effects or minimal effects, if any, on retinal neovascularization, it is possible that CTGF has indirect effects by modulating the expression of VEGF.
Rapid pituitary tumor shrinkage with dissociation between antiproliferative and antisecretory effects of a long-acting octreotide in an acromegalic patient.	Criteria to define the response to somatostatin (SS) analogs (SSA) in acromegaly are based on biochemical control of the disease. However, the mechanisms of action of SSAs in inhibiting tumor growth and hormonal secretion are only partially understood, and the two effects may occur independently.
Enniatin exerts p53-dependent cytostatic and p53-independent cytotoxic activities against human cancer cells.	Worldwide, multiple Fusarium mycotoxins occur as contaminants of cereals with important impacts on human and animal health. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the widespread Fusarium secondary metabolite enniatin (ENN), a cyclic hexadepsipeptide, on human cell growth and survival. While short-term exposure (up to 8 h) to ENN at nanomolar concentrations slightly but significantly stimulated cell proliferation, it showed profound apoptosis-inducing effects especially against various human cancer cell types at low micromolar concentrations (already after 24 h of treatment). Several cellular changes indicative for programmed cell death such as cell shrinkage, chromatin condensation, DNA fragmentation, and apoptotic body formation were observed. Correspondingly, the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribosyl)polymerase and the activation of multiple caspases accompanied a distinct loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. To investigate the impact of apoptosis- and cell cycle-regulating proteins on ENN activity, HCT116 cells with homozygously disrupted p53, p21, or bax genes were analyzed. In vitality assays, no significant influences of these proteins on the anticancer activity of ENN were detectable. In contrast, 3H-thymidine incorporation revealed a significantly more efficient block of DNA synthesis in p53 wild-type as compared to knock-out cells. Accordingly, fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis demonstrated a stronger ENN-induced cell cycle arrest in the G0/G1 phase. Profound ENN-mediated induction of p53 and the p53-downstream cell cycle inhibitor p21 were detectable in p53 wild-type cells by Western blotting. P53-independent p21 induction was also detectable at higher ENN concentrations in p53 (-/-) cells. In contrast, bax activation by ENN was independent of the cellular p53 status. In summary, our results suggest that short-term exposure to very low ENN concentrations, for example, via food intake, might have tumor-promoting functions based on growth stimulation. In contrast, elevated ENN concentrations exert profound p53-dependent cytostatic and p53-independent cytotoxic activities especially against human cancer cells, suggesting a potential quality of ENN as an anticancer drug.
Biophysical characterization of vaccinia virus thymidine kinase substrate utilization.	To provide information for the development of new antiviral compounds that inhibit orthopoxviruses, further characterization of the kinetics and thermodynamics that underlie substrate utilization reactions of vaccinia virus thymidine kinase (VVTK) has been undertaken. The kinetics of 2'deoxythymidine phosphorylation by VVTK and the thermodynamics of complex formation between VVTK and the substrate 2' deoxythymidine were determined using spectroscopic and calorimetric techniques. These studies demonstrated that kinetic parameters for 2' deoxythymidine phosphorylation by VVTK were 25 microM and 0.2s(-1) for K(m) and k(cat), respectively. The enthalpy change, Delta H, for the enzyme catalyzed reaction is -18.1 kcal/mol. Thermodynamic studies for the formation of the enzyme substrate complex demonstrated a binding affinity (K(a)) of 4 x 10(4)M(-1), an enthalpy change for binding (Delta H) of -17.4 kcal/mol, and a reaction stoichiometry of two molecules of substrate binding to each enzyme tetramer. Kinetic and thermodynamic data were in agreement (K(a) approximately 1/K(m)) and showed similarities to literature values reported for herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) and human thymidine kinase 1 (hTK1) with respect to k(cat) but not with respect to K(m). The K(m) value found for VVTK in this study is nearly two orders of magnitude larger than the values reported for the hTK1 and the HSV TK enzymes.
A CFSE based assay for measuring CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cell mediated suppression of auto-antigen specific and polyclonal T cell responses.	CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) are considered to play a key role as suppressors of immune mediated reactions. The analysis of Treg function in patients with autoimmune, allergic or oncogenic diseases has emerged over the past years. In the present study we describe a CFSE based protocol to measure Treg mediated suppression of CD4(+) T cells. Measuring Treg suppressive capacity towards proliferation of anti-CD3 Ab stimulated CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells in coculture experiments by means of a CFSE based and a classical [(3)H]thymidine incorporation assay gave similar results, provided that CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells were anergic. However, when CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells proliferated upon mitogenic stimulation, data obtained by the CFSE assay allowed the detection of a significant Treg suppression whereas this was clearly underestimated using the [(3)H]thymidine assay. In addition, an indirect CFSE based method was developed to analyze antigen specific responses of total CD4(+) T cells and Treg depleted CD4(+) T cells (i.e. CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells). Our results indicate that, in healthy individuals, CD4(+) T cell responses against the multiple sclerosis (MS) auto-antigens, myelin basic protein (MBP) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), were increased in Treg depleted CD4(+) T cells as compared to total CD4(+) T cells. Our initial data suggest that Tregs in MS patients show an impaired suppression of myelin reactive T cells when compared to healthy controls. Moreover, this experimental setup permits the measurement of cytokine production of the antigen proliferated CFSE(low) T cells by additional flow cytometric analyses. In conclusion, the described CFSE based Treg suppression assay is a valuable tool to study suppressor T cells in (auto)immune disorders.
Binding of ATP to TK1-like enzymes is associated with a conformational change in the quaternary structure.	Human thymidine kinase 1 (hTK1) and structurally related TKs from other organisms catalyze the initial phosphorylation step in the thymidine salvage pathway. Though ATP is known to be the preferred phosphoryl donor for TK1-like enzymes, its exact binding mode and effect on the oligomeric state has not been analyzed. Here we report the structures of hTK1 and of the Thermotoga maritima thymidine kinase (TmTK) in complex with the bisubstrate inhibitor TP4A. The TmTK-TP4A structure reveals that the adenosine moiety of ATP binds at the subunit interface of the homotetrameric enzyme and that the majority of the ATP-enzyme interactions occur between the phosphate groups and the P-loop. In the hTK1 structure the adenosine group of TP4A exhibited no electron density. This difference between hTK1 and TmTK is rationalized by a difference in the conformation of their quaternary structure. A more open conformation, as seen in the TmTK-TP4A complex structure, is required to provide space for the adenosine moiety. Our analysis supports the formation of an analogous open conformation in hTK1 upon ATP binding.
Questioning the reliability of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xyloside as probe to study the metabolic effects of abrogated proteoglycan synthesis in cultured cells.	p-Nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside (PNP-Xyl) and similar aglycone derivatives of xylosides are proposed selective inhibitors of proteoglycan synthesis which are used frequently to analyse the metabolic and cellular effects of abrogated proteoglycan formation and, hence, tentatively, the functions of these complex molecules. Using rat liver fat storing cell (FSC) cultures as a model, the possibility was tested that p-nitrophenol (PNP), which might be generated by the enzymatic hydrolysis of PNP-Xyl, could mediate some of those effects ascribed previously to PNP-Xyl induced inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis. PNP-Xyl and PNP inhibited dose-dependently the proliferation of FSC reaching 50% inhibition at about 1.9 and 0.6 mM, respectively. The inhibition of proliferation was not accompanied by signs of toxic cell damage and was fully reversible after withdrawal of the drugs. After an initial 4-fold stimulation of the formation of [35S]sulfate-labeled medium glycosaminoglycans (GAG) by PNP-Xyl at 0.1 mM, higher concentrations of this compound (about 0.5 mM) but also PNP decreased progressively the synthesis of sulfated medium GAG. A proliferation inhibiting concentration of PNP (0.75 mM) induced disorganization and reduced the expression of desmin- and smooth muscle iso-alpha-actin containing cytoskeletal filaments. These effects were similar to related effects reported previously for PNP-Xyl. Incubation of FSC with 5 mM PNP-Xyl resulted in a time-dependent increase of PNP in medium and cells; intracellular concentrations of PNP were reached sufficient to inhibit the mitotic activity of FSC. In lysates of FSC 0.65 nmol PNP/hr/micrograms DNA or 1 x 10(5) cells were generated from PNP-Xyl (5 mM) added as substrate. Exemplified with PNP-Xyl-treated FSC cultures, the results suggest for other cell and organ systems also that PNP, which is enzymatically cleaved from PNP-Xyl, might mediate at least some of the major effects attributed previously to the inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis. The aglycone may interfere with the effects of PNP-Xyl on proteoglycan metabolism and, therefore, could complicate in an unpredictable manner the interpretation of metabolic inhibitory studies using these compounds.
Basic fibroblast growth factor requires a long-lasting activation of protein kinase C to induce cell proliferation in transformed fetal bovine aortic endothelial cells.	Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) induces a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent mitogenic response in transformed fetal bovine aortic endothelial GM 7373 cells. A long-lasting interaction of bFGF with the cell is required to induce cell proliferation. bFGF-treated cells are in fact committed to proliferate only after they have entered the phase S of the cell cycle, 12-14 h after the beginning of bFGF treatment. Before that time, the mitogenic response to bFGF is abolished by 1) removal of extracellular bFGF by suramin, 2) addition of neutralizing anti-bFGF antibodies to the culture medium, 3) inhibition of PKC activity by the protein kinase inhibitor H-7, and 4) down-regulation of PKC by cotreatment with phorbol ester. Thus the requirement for a prolonged interaction of bFGF with the cell reflects the requirement for a prolonged activation of PKC. Similar conclusions can be drawn for the PKC activators 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate and 1,2-dioctanoyl-sn-glycerol. The two molecules require 16 and 6 h, respectively, of activation of PKC to induce 50% of maximal cell proliferation. The requirement for a long-lasting activation of PKC appears to be a mechanism for the control of cell proliferation capable of discriminating among transient nonmitogenic stimuli and long-lasting mitogenic stimuli.
Wound-factor-induced and cell cycle phase-dependent expression of 9E3/CEF4, the avian gro gene.	The gro genes encode for secreted proteins with sequence homologies to inflammatory mediators. Little is known about the function of these proteins or their regulation. The chicken gro (9E3/CEF4) is expressed abundantly in the cells of proliferating cultures but at very low levels in confluent cultures. In vivo, this gene is expressed in connective tissue and overexpressed at sites of injury, especially in areas of neovascularization. Here we provide a bridge between these observations by examining in culture the effect on 9E3 expression and DNA synthesis induced by cell damage and by addition of factors known to be released on wounding. We mimicked wounding by scraping swaths across confluent cultures of embryonic fibroblasts and determined the time dependence of expression of 9E3 mRNA and incorporation of 3H-thymidine. We find that 9E3 is (1) transiently expressed after "wounding" or serum-stimulation; (2) expressed in a cell cycle phase-dependent manner; it is triggered during the G0-G1 transition or early in G1 and subsides during S-phase; and (3) stimulated to high levels by a-fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), bFGF, transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha), and TGF beta, to intermediate levels by platelet-derived growth factor and not stimulated by epidermal growth factor. We also find that cells that are constantly cycling do not express 9E3, indicating that they skip either the portion of the cell cycle where 9E3 is induced or that they constitutively express a repressor of transcription or an RNA-degrading enzyme. Taken together, these observations suggest that the product of this gene could play more than one role in vivo. For example, in normal tissues the 9E3 protein could be involved in the exit of cells from the resting stage, whereas during wound healing the secreted protein or its cleavage products also could play a role in angiogenesis.
The epidermal pentapeptide pyroGlu-Glu-Asp-Ser-GlyOH inhibits murine hair growth in vivo and in vitro.	Tissue growth may be controlled by negative feedback mechanisms. Recently, a pentapeptide, pyroGlu-Glu-Asp-Ser-GlyOH ('epidermal pentapeptide', EPP), which slows the growth of mouse epidermis in vivo and of mouse keratinocytes in vitro, was isolated from mouse epidermis. Since inhibitory molecules like EPP might be part of the feedback systems underlying hair growth control, we assessed the effect of synthesized EPP on the growth of hair follicles, using rodent in vivo and in vitro assays. We report for the first time that intraperitoneally injected EPP (30 nmol/animal/day over 6 days) significantly slows the growth of hair follicles in plucking-induced anagen skin of C57 B1-6 mice (as assessed by microscopic morphometry). Using an in vitro organ culture assay, EPP inhibits the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into mouse pelage anagen follicles. That this epidermal-derived peptide affects hair growth raises the possibility that hair growth may be regulated by an inhibition/disinhibition mechanism under participation of EPP-like molecules and that the epidermis may play a role in the control of hair growth.
Desmin is present in proliferating rat muscle satellite cells but not in bovine muscle satellite cells.	The presence of desmin was characterized in cultured rat and bovine satellite cells and its potential usefulness as a marker for identifying satellite cells in vitro was evaluated. In primary cultures, positive immunohistochemical staining for desmin and skeletal muscle myosin was observed in rat and bovine myotubes. A small number of mononucleated cells (20% of rat satellite cells and 5% of bovine satellite cells) were myosin-positive, indicative of post-mitotic differentiated myocytes. In bovine satellite cell cultures 13% of the mononucleated cells were desmin-positive, while 84% of the mononucleated cells in rat satellite cell cultures were desmin-positive. Rat satellite cell mass cultures and bovine satellite cell clonal density cultures were pulsed with 3H-thymidine, and autoradiographic data revealed that greater than 94% of dividing rat cells were desmin-positive, suggesting that desmin is synthesized in proliferating rat satellite cells. However, no desmin was seen in cells that incorporated labeled thymidine in bovine satellite cell clones. Analysis of clonal density cultures revealed that only 14% of the mononucleated cells in bovine satellite cell colonies were desmin-positive, whereas 98% of the cells in rat satellite cell colonies were desmin-positive. Fibroblast colonies from both species were desmin-negative. In order to further examine the relationship between satellite cell differentiation and desmin expression, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was added to culture medium at the time of plating to inhibit differentiation. Fusion was inhibited in rat and bovine cultures, and cells continued to divide. Very few desmin-positive cells were found in bovine cultures, but greater than 90% of the cells in rat cultures stained positive for desmin. The presence of desmin and sarcomeric myosin was also evaluated in regenerating rat tibialis anterior five days after bupivacaine injection. In regenerating areas of the muscle many desmin-positive cells were present, and only a few cells stained positive for skeletal muscle myosin. Application of desmin staining to rat satellite cell growth assays indicated that rat satellite cells cultured in serum-containing medium were contaminated with fibroblasts at levels that ranged from approximately 5% in 24 hr cultures to 15% in mature cultures. In defined medium 4 day cultures contain approximately 95% to 98% desmin-positive satellite cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Germ cell mitogenic activity is associated with nerve growth factor-like protein(s).	The mitogenicity of germ cell proteins released from round spermatids (RS) and pachytene spermatocytes (PS) was investigated. Germ cells were isolated by centrifugal elutriation from 90-day-old rat testes and incubated in a supplement enriched culture media that lacked exogenous proteins. The conditioned culture media of RS and PS were dialysed/concentrated and lyophilized to prepare RS protein (RSP) and PS protein (PSP). Mitogenic activity of RSP and PSP was determined by 3H-thymidine incorporation into Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. RSP and PSP stimulated 3H-thymidine incorporation by fibroblasts in a dose-dependent manner. At a higher concentration of RSP (300 micrograms/ml), fibroblast proliferation was stimulated from 6- to 20-fold of control cultures, whereas PSP (300 micrograms/ml) stimulated fibroblast proliferation 2.5-fold of control cultures. Since RSP exhibited substantially greater mitogenic activity than PSP we further investigated the RSP mitogenic substance(s) by immunoneutralization with antibodies against several growth factors. The mitogenic activity of RSP was significantly reduced by treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF) antibody, while neither the treatment of RSP with acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) antibody, nor basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) antibody significantly modified the mitogenic activity of RSP. Interestingly, murine NGF-beta, recombinant human NGF-beta, and bovine serum albumin (BSA) did not exhibit mitogenic activity on 3T3 fibroblasts. Nevertheless, the presence of a NGF-like protein in RS and PS was confirmed by indirect immunofluorescence staining with a murine NGF antibody. Subsequently, a Western blot analysis with the NGF antibody identified two immunoreactive bands of 41 +/- 2 kDa and 51 +/- 1 kDa in both RSP and PSP under reduced conditions. These germ cell NGF-like proteins were apparently different from similarly prepared murine and human NGFs (13 kDa) in their molecular weight. Furthermore, neurite outgrowth from pheochromocytoma cells (PC-12), a functional bioassay for NGF-like activity, was stimulated by addition of RSP and PSP to the culture media of the PC-12 cells. These results demonstrate mitogenic activity in germ cell proteins (RSP and PSP) and identify a NGF-like protein(s) which is associated with most of this activity.
The effects of chronic exposure to supraphysiological concentrations of 3, 5, 3' triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) on cultured GC cells.	We have characterized the effects of supraphysiological concentrations of T3 on GC cells, a cultured cell line in which physiologic concentrations of T3 regulate cell growth, protein content, and growth hormone (GH) production. GC cells were exposed to 3 times (1.0 nM) and 80 times (25.0 nM) the physiologic concentration of T3 (0.3 nM) for either 4 d or for greater than 3 months. Both short and prolonged exposure to supranormal T3 concentrations supported maximal cell growth rate and induced significant increases in total protein (P less than 0.025) and GH production (P less than 0.01) per cell when compared to measurements in control GC cells. In addition, exposure to 1.0 nM and 25.0 nM T3 for greater than 3 months enhanced the toxicity of heat shock in a manner similar to previously described effects on GC cells due to T3 exposure of shorter duration. Thus, initial responses to raised T3 concentrations in cultured GC cells persisted without alteration when hormone exposure was prolonged for greater than 3 months.
Effect of tumor necrosis factor on growth and function in FRTL5 cells.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a cytokine produced by inflammatory macrophages and monocytes. FRTL5 cells are a continuous line of functional, nontransformed rat thyroid cells that depend on thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) for sustained growth. The following experiments characterize the effects of TNF on growth and differentiated functions in FRTL5 cells. Cells were incubated with different concentrations of TNF (1 to 100 ng/ml), alone or with TSH. FRTL5 cell proliferation was assessed by 3H-thymidine incorporation assays. Differentiated functions were studied by measuring radioactive iodine uptake (RAI) and triiodothyronine (T3) production. TNF inhibited FRTL5 cell growth both in basal conditions and after cells had been exposed to TSH. TNF caused small inhibition of both basal RAI uptake and T3 release but greatly decreased TSH-stimulated RAI uptake and T3 secretion. In summary, TNF appears to affect both growth and differentiated functions in the FRTL5 cell line. Although it is difficult to extrapolate these in vitro results to the human disease state, we postulate that TNF production in septic states may contribute to the pathogenesis of the low T3 syndrome; moreover, locally produced TNF may modulate thyroid function in autoimmune thyroid diseases.
A novel approach to detect donor/recipent immune responses between HLA-identical pairs.	Renal transplant rejection and graft versus host reactions between HLA genetically-identical sibling (HLAgi) donor/recipient (D/R) pairs are thought to result from minor histocompatibility antigen (mHAg) disparities. We have compared two methods of measuring HLAgi D/R T lymphocyte responses to "matured" dendritic cells: 1.) a modified Cylex assay of CD4(+) ATP levels (MLDC-ATP) versus 2.) (3)H-thymidine uptake (MLDC-(3)H). The MLDC-ATP kinetics peaked at 48 hours versus the MLDC-(3)H at 7 days, and appeared more sensitive. We tested HLAgi (normal) volunteer siblings (NLs), and D/R sibling pairs before and after renal transplantation (pre-Tx and post-Tx). The overall frequencies of positive responses in the MLDC-ATP for HLAgi NLs, pre-Tx, and post-Tx D/R pairs were 63%, 50%, and 42%, respectively. The percentage with reciprocal responses was 37.5%, 20%, and 22.22%, respectively. In one set of three HLAgi (NLs) siblings (two males and one female), there was a nongender-associated differential response. There was no MLDC correlation with class I MHC-associated mHAg (SSP) incompatibility, nor could some MLDC positive reactive pairs theoretically process the necessary HLA-class I restriction molecules for presentation of known (nanomeric) mHAg peptides. Speculatively, the MLDC reflects class II MHC-restricted mHAg reactions (not yet definable), with possible effects of other polymorphic (nonhistocompatibility) immune response genes, and thereby may be a useful measurement of CD4(+) T-cell HLAgi transplantation immunity.
Antifolate pseudo-resistance due to elevated levels of thymidine and hypoxanthine in a commercial serum preparation.	Batch variability of sera used for cell culture is of considerable experimental concern. A novel fetal calf serum product, FCS Gold, was claimed to be the first defined fetal calf serum free of batch variation.
Effects of various growth factors on growth of a cloned human esophageal squamous cancer cell line in a protein-free medium.	In order to investigate molecular mechanisms of the growth of human esophageal cancer in relation to growth factors, we have recently established a protein-free culture system [Ham's F-12: Eagle's minimum essential medium (1:1, v/v)] of TE-3-OS cells (a cloned cell line from human esophageal squamous cancer, TE-3). In the present study, we first examined effects of exogenous growth factors on the growth of TE-3-OS cells. The growth of TE-3-OS cells in the protein-free medium was significantly stimulated by insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I or IGF-II, and less effectively stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF) or transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha; platelet-derived growth factor, TFG-beta, acidic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) or basic FGF had no effects. TE-3-OS cells contained specific IGF-I binding sites (110,000 sites/cell), with a Kd value of 800 pM. Moreover, the growth induced by IGF-I, IGF-II or insulin was markedly and similarly (70-80%) inhibited by anti-IGF-I receptor antibody IgG. These data suggest that IGF-I, IGF-II and insulin, as well as EGF and TGF-alpha, are important mitogens for human esophageal cancer cells and that effects of IGFs and insulin are mediated predominantly via IGF-I receptors.
Induction of c-myc oncoprotein and of cellular proliferation by radiation in normal human urothelial cultures.	Normal urothelial cultures were established from transplant ureters and irradiated or exposed to nitrosamines. The cells which survived the treatment were monitored for expression of c-myc oncoprotein. The cultures were also exposed to tritiated thymidine (3HTdR) to determine the total number of cells synthesizing DNA. The area of explant outgrowth was also measured. Proliferation is considered to be a fundamental precondition which has to be present before malignant change can take place or which has to accompany this change. The results indicate that the overall growth rate of the carcinogen-treated cultures is relatively faster than that of the controls. This is particularly true one to two weeks after carcinogen exposure. Certain areas of the culture develop abnormally, cells are different in size and shape to the normal uroepithelial cell and have the capacity to pile up and form characteristic foci. These foci continue to proliferate after senescence of control cultures and after senescence of normal areas of treated cultures. The cells in these foci express high levels of c-Myc oncoprotein. Control and treated but normal cells are negative for this antigen under the conditions used. N-ethyl nitrosamine (NEN) (0.005-0.05 micrograms/ml) and radiation (2.5-10.0 Gy) are both able to induce the changes described. The results suggest that radiation and/or nitrosamine treatment can induce uroepithelial cells to divide at a faster rate than usual. Certain cells within this fast growing culture attain the capacity to pile up and acquire a different morphology. These cells do not senescence at the usual time and are c-myc positive. They may represent a subpopulation which has undergone some pre or early malignant changes.
A low-temperature method for the isolation of small-intestinal epithelium along the crypt-villus axis.	A variety of enzymic and non-enzymic methods to isolate epithelium from the small intestine have been previously published. Sequential fractionation of cells from the villus to the crypt has been reported in some of these papers, which allows the comparative study of terminally differentiated and proliferative cell phenotypes. However, these methods often involve the incubation of tissues at 37 degrees C, which may affect the structural and biochemical integrity of the cells. We have developed a rapid low-temperature (4 degrees C) method for isolating purified populations of crypt and villus cells from mouse and rat intestines. The fractionated cells have been partially characterized, and the potential value of the procedure has been indicated by the ability to analyse the comparative protein and mRNA expression along the crypt-villus axis.
Rapid smooth muscle cell growth and endogenous prostaglandin system in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) exhibit rapid cell growth. In this study, to reveal the mechanisms of the quick VSMC growth, we analyzed the alterations in the respective periods of the proliferating cell cycle, and investigated the role of the endogenous prostaglandin system in this rapid cell growth. The VSMC from SHR showed increased [3H]thymidine uptake and shortened doubling time, compared with Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). These properties were mainly due to both shortened transition time from G0/G1 to S and shortened G2 duration. There was a difference neither in the DNA-replication rate nor in the mitotic period. Generating capacity for vasodepressor prostaglandins was significantly reduced in the VSMC from SHR, particularly in the G0/G1 period. When the endogenous prostaglandin synthesis was inhibited by 10(-5) mol/L indomethacin, the transition from G0/G1 to S was shortened. This alteration was eliminated by supplementation with OP41483, a stable prostacyclin analog. In contrast, the alteration in the G2 duration was unaffected by indomethacin. These data indicate that the rapid VSMC growth in SHR is mainly due to the shortening of both the G0/G1 and G2 period, and that the impaired prostaglandin system is responsible, at least in part, for the shortened G0/G1 duration.
Bacillus decisifrondis sp. nov., isolated from soil underlying decaying leaf foliage.	An aerobic bacterium, designated strain E5HC-32(T), was isolated from soil underlying the decaying leaf litter of a slash pine forest located in south east Queensland, Australia. The strictly aerobic, motile rod-shaped cells (0.8-1.6 x 2.6-4.8 microm) produced subterminal spherical spores which distended the cells. Strain E5HC-32(T) grew optimally in 1 % trypticase soy broth (TSB) at 30 degrees C (temperature range for growth, 25-40 degrees C) and a pH of 8.4 (pH growth range, pH 7.1-9.1). Electron microscopic examination of negatively stained cells revealed the presence of peritrichous flagella and thin sections showed the presence of a typical Gram-positive type cell-wall ultrastructure. The strain was catalase-positive and oxidase-negative and metabolized pyruvic acid methyl ester, D-galactonic acid lactone, alpha-ketobutyric acid, alpha-ketovaleric acid, L-proline, L-alanine, urocanic acid, inosine, uridine, thymidine, glycerol, alpha-cyclodextrin, alpha-D-lactose, D-psicose, D-raffinose, L-rhamnose, D-sorbitol, turanose, cis-aconitic acid, alpha-hydroxybutyric acid, L-alaninamide and 2-aminoethanol. The G+C content of DNA was 41+/-1 mol% as determined by the thermal denaturation method. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis revealed that strain E5HC-32(T) was placed equidistantly as a member of the class Bacilli, phylum Firmicutes, with Bacillus sphaericus DSM 28(T) and Bacillus odysseyi ATCC PTA-4993(T) (similarity of 93 %). In addition to its significant phylogenetic separation from its nearest relatives, strain E5HC-32(T) possessed phenotypic traits that also suggested that it represented a novel species, for which the name Bacillus decisifrondis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is E5HC-32(T) (=JCM 13601(T)=DSM 17725(T)).
A serum substitute promotes osteoblast-like phenotypic expression in cultured cells from chick calvariae.	The effects of medium supplements were tested on embryonic chick calvarial cells in culture. Isolates were divided among four treatment groups: Nu-Serum, chicken serum, fetal bovine serum, or calf serum. Expression of the osteoblastic phenotype was assessed by cell morphology, DNA content, [3H]thymidine incorporation, lactate production, cellular and medium alkaline phosphatase activities, and collagen synthesis. Cells grown in Nu-Serum demonstrated increased alkaline phosphatase activity and a six-fold higher rate of collagen synthesis compared to chicken serum. These cells displayed a polygonal profile, abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparati, and elaborated an extensive matrix of banded collagen which was well mineralized by day 10 of culture. Although highly mitogenic, chicken serum promoted a more fibroblastoid morphology. Compared to the sera tested, Nu-Serum preferentially promoted the osteoblast-like phenotype in chick calvarial cells in culture.
Effects of steroids on human normal and otosclerotic osteoblastic cells: influence on thymidine and leucine uptake and incorporation.	Steroid hormones are able to influence the metabolism of bone tissue in vivo, but reports regarding their direct action on bone cells fail to agree. In this study, in vitro administration of 17 beta-estradiol, testosterone and corticosterone to normal and otosclerotic osteoblastic cells induced a drop in DNA synthesis in both populations, an increase in the neosynthesis of endocellular proteins in normal cells and a rise, mainly in proteins secreted into the medium, in otosclerotic cells. The fact that 3H-thymidine and 3H-leucine uptake were lower in otosclerotic than in normal cells suggests that the membrane permeability differs in the two populations and that steroids exert an influence on both isotope uptake and directly modulate DNA and protein synthesis.
Culture of fetal alveolar epithelial type II cells in serum-free medium.	A serum-free culture medium (defined medium = DM) was elaborated by adding to Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM), non-essential amino acids, transferrin, putrescine, tripeptide glycyl-histidyl-lysine, somatostatin, sodium selenite, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, sodium pyruvate, and metal trace elements. This medium was tested for its ability to support sustained surfactant biosynthesis in fetal alveolar epithelial type II cells. For up to 8 days, ultrastructure was maintained with persistence of lamellar inclusion bodies. Thymidine incorporation into DNA was enhanced about 50% in DM as compared with MEM, whereas it was enhanced 300% in 10% fetal bovine serum. With DM, the incorporation of tritiated choline into phosphatidylcholine (PC) of isolated surfactant material was about twice that with MEM. Deletion experiments evidenced the prominent role of pyruvate, transferrin, and selenium in the stimulation of surfactant PC biosynthesis. The addition of biotin to DM enhanced surfactant PC biosynthesis slightly and nonsurfactant PC biosynthesis markedly. The presence of nucleosides seemed unfavorable to the synthesis of surfactant PC. Type II cells responded to the addition of epidermal growth factor and insulinlike growth factor-I both by increased thymidine incorporation into DNA and choline incorporation into PC. It is concluded that DM represents a useful tool for cultivating type II cells without loss of their specialized properties and for studying the regulation of cell proliferation and surfactant biosynthesis in a controlled environment.
Organ culture as a model for investigating the effects of antimetabolites and nucleoside transport inhibitors on rodent colonic mucosa.	The in-vitro effects of hydroxyurea 5-FU and 5-FUdR have been extensively studied in experimental systems employing cell-line techniques. In this study we investigated the effects of these drugs on the levels of incorporation of labeled nucleosides into DNA in explants of intact rat colonic mucosa maintained in organ culture. The effects of the nucleoside transport inhibitors nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBMPR) and dipyridamole--which are modulators of antimetabolite cytotoxicity--on the incorporation of tritiated thymidine ([3H]TdR) into DNA were also studied. The incorporation of tritiated TdR into DNA was reduced by hydroxyurea but was not altered by either 5-FU or 5-FUdR. The levels of tritiated deoxyuridine were reduced by 5-FU and 5-FUdR in separate experiments; this is in keeping with thymidylate synthase inhibition. NBMPR and dipyridamole also reduced 3H-TdR incorporation into DNA. These results can be explained in terms of the known mechanisms of action of these drugs. This experimental model is therefore useful in assessing the effects of antimetabolites and nucleoside transport inhibitors in intact colonic mucosa.
Thymidine salvage changes with differentiation in human keratinocytes in vitro.	We compared the capacity of proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes to salvage and catabolize extracellular thymidine. Both populations of cells catabolized thymidine to thymine and possessed thymidine phosphorylase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate, thymidine phosphorylase activity ultimately increased twofold. In contrast, proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes differed markedly in their capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine. Proliferating keratinocytes readily salvaged extracellular thymidine to form nucleotides, whereas differentiating cells rapidly lost this capacity. The inability of differentiating cells to form nucleotides from thymidine was not attributed to reduced availability of thymidine due to catabolism but rather was the result of the rapid loss of thymidine kinase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate in suspension culture, they lose 41% of thymidine kinase activity in 8 h and over 90% of activity in 12 h. Our data indicate that loss of capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine for synthesis of nucleotides closely parallels the onset of differentiation in keratinocytes.
Inflammation amplifies the antitumor cytostasis by human peritoneal macrophages.	The effect of an inflammatory environment on the antitumor cytostatic ability of human macrophages was examined. Peritoneal macrophages of patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) were collected, when CAPD was without complication, during an intercurrent infectious inflammation and after recovery. Inhibition of 3H-thymidine uptake served as a measure of cytostasis by macrophages co-cultured with target murine cells MOPC-315 plasmacytoma, WEHI-3B myelomonocytic leukemia and L929 transformed fibroblasts. Macrophages from inflammatory peritoneum expressed a markedly enhanced cytostasis, irrespective of the nature of the tumor cell. Endotoxin (LPS) challenge of inflammatory macrophages failed to further reinforce the cytostasis towards MOPC-315 plasmacytoma, but reinforced the cytostasis towards WEHI-3B leukemia (sensitive to inhibition by IL-1) and towards L929 (sensitive to TNF alpha). Cytostasis by supernatants of human peritoneal macrophages against L929 was markedly inhibited by anti-rHuTNF alpha and against WEHI-3B by anti-rHuIL-1 beta. The results suggest a link between inflammatory function and antitumor cytostasis by macrophages. This link is constituted by mediators involved in the activation process of macrophages.
Modulation of methotrexate cytotoxicity with natural interferon upon human leukemia cell line HL-60.	The effect of alpha- and gamma-interferon on methotrexate cytotoxicity against human promyelocytic cell line HL-60 has been evaluated. Synergistic inhibition of proliferation is observed with the combination of methotrexate and gamma-interferon. Enhanced cytotoxic effect of methotrexate with alpha- or gamma-interferon is removed by adding thymidine to the growth medium. The depletion of folate pools caused by methotrexate is enhanced in presence of interferons, this depletion is also removed by adding thymidine to the growth media. Synchronization of HL-60 cells in 'S' phase of cell cycle caused by methotrexate is enhanced in the presence of interferons. These results suggest that specially gamma-interferon changes the cellular environment of HL-60 cells in such a way as to make methotrexate more potent cytotoxic agent to HL-60 cells causing cell death. This study also clearly indicates the biochemical role of thymidine in modulating the activity of methotrexate in combination with interferons.
Fractional incorporation of radionucleotides, a marker of in vitro tumor cell chemosensitivity in colorectal cancer.	Working with the antimetabolic chemopredictivity assay on short term cultures we evidenced a correlation between in vitro chemosensitivity of colorectal cancer and fractional incorporation of radionucleotides. Four different drugs (5-FU, mitomycin C, 4'-iododeoxydoxorubicin and ruboxyl, a nitroxyl derivative of daunorubicin) were tested on 102 tumor cultures. The extent of 3H-TdR and 3H-UdR incorporation into DNA and RNA in the related control cultures was in relationship with the chemosensitivity of the tumor. Along with the labeling index this simple metabolic-kinetic trait may gain a role for the screening of tumor phenotypes sensitive to chemotherapy.
Changes in the hormone dependency of epithelial cell proliferation in the genital tract of mice following neonatal oestrogen treatment.	The genital tract epithelium of the female laboratory mouse has been widely studied as a model of oestrogen-dependent growth and proliferation. Perturbation of the hormonal imprinting of these tissues during neonatal development has also been used to study the development of pathological abnormalities, particularly in the cervical epithelium. This study demonstrates that mice treated neonatally from days 1-5 with supraphysiological concentrations of oestrogen are able to maintain high levels of proliferation following the removal of the ovaries later in adult life. This high level of proliferation was shown to be independent of the ovarian oestrogens and of oestrogens produced peripherally by aromatisation. These results suggest conversion of the genital tract in these mice to a fully hormonal "independent" state. However, neonatal treatment with oestrogen was not found to produce a uniform change to hormonal independence. Further challenge of the adult ovariectomised mice with oestrogen, demonstrated that a population of cells still retained the ability to respond to the mitogenic influence of this hormone.
Prediction of drug resistance in cancer chemotherapy: the Kern and DiSC assays.	In the opinion of the authors, good medical practice demands the avoidance of ineffective therapies and good cancer chemotherapy generally demands the avoidance of inactive drugs. The authors present their viewpoint that randomized trials are not required to prove that physicians should not administer inactive drugs and that existing cell culture assays are acceptably accurate in identifying inactive drugs. They describe and advocate the use of two such tests to aid in choosing between different forms of therapy that would otherwise be equally acceptable in the absence of test information. Strengths, weaknesses, and applications of the assays are discussed.
Quantitative analysis of in vivo cell proliferation.	Injection and immunohistochemical detection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) has become the standard method for studying the birth and survival of neurons, glia, and other cell types in the nervous system. BrdU, a thymidine analog, becomes stably incorporated into DNA during the S-phase of mitosis. Because DNA containing BrdU can be specifically recognized by antibodies, this method allows dividing cells to be marked at any given time and then identified at time points from a few minutes to several years later. BrdU immunohistochemistry is suitable for cell counting to examine the regulation of cell proliferation and cell fate. It can be combined with labeling by other antibodies, allowing confocal analysis of cell phenotype or expression of other proteins. The potential for nonspecific labeling and toxicity are discussed. Although BrdU immunohistochemistry has almost completely replaced tritiated thymidine autoradiography for labeling dividing cells, this method and situations in which it is still useful are also described.
Bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells and peritoneal mast cells as targets of a growth activity secreted by BALB/3T3 fibroblasts.	When fibroblast cell lines were cultured in contact with bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells (CMC), both NIH/3T3 and BALB/3T3 cell lines supported the proliferation of CMC. In contrast, when contact between fibroblasts and CMC was prohibited by Biopore membranes or soft agar, only BALB/3T3 fibroblasts supported CMC proliferation, suggesting that BALB/3T3 but not NIH/3T3 cells secreted a significant amount of a mast cell growth activity. Moreover, the BALB/3T3-derived growth activity induced the incorporation of [3H]thymidine by CMC and the clonal growth of peritoneal mast cells in methylcellulose. The mast cell growth activity appeared to be different from interleukin 3 (IL-3) and interleukin 4 (IL-4), because mRNAs for these interleukins were not detectable in BALB/3T3 fibroblasts. Although mast cells are genetically deficient in tissues of W/Wv mice, CMC did develop when bone marrow cells of W/Wv mice were cultured with pokeweed mitogen-stimulated spleen cell-conditioned medium. Because BALB/3T3 fibroblast-conditioned medium (BALB-FCM) did not induce the incorporation of [3H]thymidine by W/Wv CMC, the growth activity in BALB-FCM appeared to be a ligand for the receptor encoded by the W (c-kit) locus. Because CMC and peritoneal mast cells are obtained as homogeneous suspensions rather easily, these cells may be potentially useful as targets for the fibroblast-derived mast cell growth activity.
Skin toxicity determined in vitro by three-dimensional, native-state histoculture.	We describe a gel-supported in vitro system for culturing skin samples in a three-dimensional native state. All the cell types of skin remain viable and maintain their native architecture for at least 10 days. The culture system is used for toxicity measurements by ascertaining cell viability using two fluorescent dyes: 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and -6)carboxyfluorescein acetoxymethyl ester, specific for living cells, and propidium iodide, specific for dead cells. Cell staining with the dyes is measured throughout the tissue block by confocal scanning fluorescence microscopy. The dose-response to three agents--ethanol, doxorubicin, and sodium hypochlorite--is shown and, in the case of sodium hypochlorite, compared to in vivo skin toxicity with a high correlation. We also demonstrate that the end point of [3H]thymidine incorporation measured by histological autoradiography can be used to measure toxicity. Our results with the [3H]thymidine end point demonstrate that the hair follicle cells are the most sensitive to doxorubicin. The native-state model for skin may be an effective replacement for animal systems and superior to the dispersed skin cell systems used previously. It can allow rapid, inexpensive measurements of the effect of manufactured products, drugs, and pollutants on skin.
Effects of interleukin 1 on growth and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate generation of the rat thyroid cell line, FRTL-5 cells.	We investigated the effects of IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, interferon-gamma and tumour necrosis factor-alpha on growth and cAMP generation of FRTL-5 cells. IL-1 produced a significant stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into FRTL-5 cells without TSH, whereas IL-1 caused significant reductions in [3H]thymidine incorporation induced by TSH or forskolin, which is known as an adenylate cyclase activator. Intracellular cAMP generation of FRTL-5 cells was stimulated by IL-1, whereas TSH-stimulated cAMP generation was inhibited by IL-1. These effects of IL-1 was neutralized by addition of anti-IL-1 antibody. The studies suggested that IL-1 blocks the effects of TSH on proliferation and cAMP generation of FRTL-5 cells on a post-receptor site of TSH.
Chemosensitivity testing of an ovarian cancer cell line: comparison of MTT assay and [3H]-thymidine incorporation.	Chemosensitivity test has its role in cancer therapy. Using an accurate, efficient, and simple way to choose the proper chemosensitive drugs in our clinical study will help advance our work. The MTT assay is a rapid, precise, and new method to perform drug sensitivity assay. We used an ovarian cancer cell line (OC-3L-VGH) to compare the accuracy of the MTT and the [3H]-TdR incorporation assay in measuring chemosensitivity of 7 anticancer drugs. Good correlation was observed between the MTT and the [3H]-TdR assay for drug sensitivity testing (r = 0.893, P less than 0.001). Based on this study we found it may be preferable to use the MTT assay for chemosensitivity screening.
Differentiation of malignant oral rat keratinocytes reflects changes in EGF and TGF-beta receptor expression but not growth factor dependence.	This study examined the characteristics of keratinocytes from 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide-treated rat oral epithelium that formed well differentiated carcinomas or spindle cell tumours when transplanted s.c. to athymic mice. Small polygonal-type cells in early culture passage gave rise to xenografts that were well differentiated carcinomas with keratin positivity and a differential reactivity with two anti-vimentin antibodies (positive Vim Dako, negative Vim 3B4). Progressive culture of the polygonal cells resulted in cells of a more stellate-like morphology which, when transplanted, formed spindle cell tumours that were keratin negative and vimentin positive (Vim Dako and Vim 3B4). The staining pattern of the xenografts was similar to that of the cultured cell derivatives. By contrast to normal oral keratinocytes which were stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF), the parental and xenograft-derived cells were markedly less responsive and at times refractory to EGF. Low affinity EGF receptors characterized normal keratinocytes whilst parental and xenograft-derived cells from well differentiated carcinomas and spindle cell tumours expressed diminished numbers of low and high affinity and high affinity EGF receptors respectively. Normal keratinocytes and parental tumour cells were inhibited by transforming growth factor (TGF-beta) whereas xenograft-derived cell lines from both well differentiated carcinomas and spindle cell tumours were refractory to TGF-beta. TGF-beta receptors were predominantly of high affinity although xenograft-derived cells, particularly from spindle cell tumours, expressed increased numbers of receptors which were of lower affinity. The results indicate that spindle cell tumours are a variant of well differentiated carcinomas and express an aberrant pattern of differentiation. Resistance to EGF-induced stimulation and TGF-beta-induced inhibition appears not to be an integral part of the tumour phenotype but the pattern of EGF and TGF-beta receptor expression closely follows the degree of tumour differentiation.
T cell responses in fresh and cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells: kinetics of cell viability, cellular subsets, proliferation, and cytokine production.	Polyclonal stimuli like phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) plus calcium ionophore (Ca-I), concanavalin A (ConA) or anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 (alphaCD3/alphaCD28) are widely used T cell stimuli. All three stimuli act at different sites and in different ways to activate the T cell receptor pathway and are widely used in different concentrations, stimulation durations and read-out systems. This study was designed to establish the most suitable polyclonal stimulus in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) experiments by assessing the kinetics of cell viability, present immunophenotypes, proliferation, and cytokine production of the PBMC. In addition, changes in these read-out parameters due to cryopreservation have been investigated by comparing fresh and cryopreserved PBMC cultures at days 1, 3, 5, and 7. This study showed a reduction in the cytokine levels after cryopreservation of PMA/Ca-I stimulated PBMC, whereas no significant differences due to the cryopreservation were observed in ConA or alphaCD3/alphaCD28 stimulated PBMC. Cryopreservation did not alter the maximal proliferation capacity of ConA or alphaCD3/alphaCD28 stimulated PBMC, whereas it did delay the proliferation. Although cryopreservation had no effect on the CD3+CD4+ or CD3+CD8+ T cell subsets, PMA/Ca-I significantly reduced the amount of both T cell subsets over time. In conclusion, PMA/Ca-I is suitable as a positive control in experiments where high cytokine production is expected and only fresh PBMC are used. Proliferation and effects on the T cell subsets in long-term PBMC cultures should use ConA or alphaCD3/alphaCD28 as positive control.
Dasatinib inhibits the growth and survival of neoplastic human eosinophils (EOL-1) through targeting of FIP1L1-PDGFRalpha.	Chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL) is a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by molecular and/or cytogenetic evidence of clonality of eosinophils, marked eosinophilia, and organ damage. In many patients, the transforming mutation FIP1L1-PDGFRalpha and the related CHIC2 deletion are found. The respective oncoprotein, FIP1L1-PDGFRalpha, is considered to play a major role in malignant cell growth in CEL. The tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitor imatinib (STI571) has been described to counteract the TK activity of FIP1L1-PDGFRalpha in most patients. However, not all patients with CEL show a response to imatinib. Therefore, several attempts have been made to identify other TK inhibitors that counteract growth of neoplastic eosinophils.
Cytotoxicity effects induced by Zearalenone metabolites, alpha Zearalenol and beta Zearalenol, on cultured Vero cells.	Zearalenone (Zen) is a non-steroidal estrogenic mycotoxin produced by several species of Fusarium. It has been implicated in several mycotoxicosis in farm animals and in humans. The major metabolites of this mycotoxin in various species are alpha and beta Zearalenol. In vivo, Zen is mainly reduced to these alcoholic metabolites which cause reproductive tract disorders and impaired fertility due to their estrogenic activities. In this study, we examined the cytotoxicity of alpha and beta Zearalenol in cultured cells. For this purpose, the MTT assay was carried out and the influence of alpha and beta Zearalenol on protein and DNA syntheses was assessed. To evaluate the cell stress caused by these two metabolites, oxidative stress measured by MDA induction and stress protein induction (Hsp 70, Hsp 27) were tested. Results showed that alpha and beta Zearalenol were metabolites that caused cytotoxicity by inhibiting cell viability, protein and DNA syntheses and inducing oxidative damage and over-expression of stress proteins. However, the Zen metabolites exhibited lower toxicity than Zen, with beta zearalenol being the more active of the two metabolites.
The role of pyruvate carboxylase in insulin secretion and proliferation in rat pancreatic beta cells.	Pyruvate carboxylase (PC) or pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is required to transfer carbons from pyruvate into the Krebs cycle. PC activity is preserved in the islets of obese animals, but it is reduced in the islets of animal models of type 2 diabetes, suggesting that PC is important in beta cell adaptation to insulin resistance and that PC reduction may lead to beta cell failure.
A randomized controlled crossover trial of the effect of ginseng consumption on the immune response to moderate exercise in healthy sedentary men.	Ginseng is a popular herbal remedy that is reputed to increase resistance to stress and improve immune function. Regular exercise results in acute physiologic stress that affects the immune response. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of daily consumption of a standardized ginsenoside-containing North American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) extract on immune function before, during, and after a moderate-exercise protocol in healthy sedentary men. Ten healthy males were randomized to receive either ginseng (1125 mg.d-1) or placebo for 35 days. After a 3 month washout period, subjects received the opposite treatment for another 35 days. An exercise test and blood collection were performed at the end of each treatment period. Immune parameters and blood hormone levels were measured before, during, and after the exercise stress protocol. Ginseng treatment reduced the peripheral blood concentration of CD8+ T cells and increased mitogen-stimulated T cell production of interleukin-2 ex vivo. Ginseng had no effect on total white blood cell counts; on concentrations of neutrophils, monocytes, or lymphocytes (CD3+, CD4+, CD16+, CD20+); on lymphocyte proliferation; or on neutrophil oxidative burst. Ginseng did not significantly affect exercise-induced changes in plasma concentrations of lactate, insulin, cortisol, or growth hormone. The consumption of ginseng for 5 weeks had a limited effect on the immune response to an acute exercise protocol.
Overexpression of 5-lipoxygenase in colon polyps and cancer and the effect of 5-LOX inhibitors in vitro and in a murine model.	Arachidonic acid metabolism via the cyclooxygenase (COX) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) pathways modulates cell growth and apoptosis. Many studies have examined the effects of COX inhibitors on human colorectal cancer, but the role of 5-LOX in colonic cancer development has not been well studied. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the expression of 5-LOX in colonic polyps and cancer and the effect of 5-LOX inhibition on colon cancer cell proliferation.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-1 renders lymphocytes responsive to IL-2 but not IL-15 for survival.	Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA-1) is the only latent protein expressed in all virus-associated tumours. It plays a critical role in viral propagation and in the replication, episomal maintenance and partitioning of the viral genome. However, its tumorigenic potential is debated. We have previously shown that lymphocytes from a tumour-prone, EBNA-1-expressing, transgenic mouse line show increased responsiveness to interleukin-2 (IL-2). It was important to determine whether this property was unique to the transgenic line or whether it is a general consequence of EBNA-1 expression in B cells. In order to distinguish between these possibilities, explanted lymphocytes from two independent transgenic mouse lines were examined. The lymphocytes from both lines showed enhanced proliferation rates compared with controls. The transgenic lymphocytes survived for extended periods in culture, dependent on the dose of IL-2, while IL-15 (the receptor of which shares the beta and gamma chain components of the IL-2 receptor) induced little effect. In accordance with this, transgenic B cells showed enhanced induction of expression of the IL-2 receptor alpha chain (CD25), which modulates affinity for the ligand. As this phenotype is evident in lymphocytes from mice of both lines, it is necessarily independent of any transgene insertion site effects and may be attributed to EBNA-1 expression. Furthermore, 10/12 tumour-bearing transgenic mice had elevated IL-2 levels in serum and 4/6 tumours were CD25 positive. IL-2 is normally produced by activated T cells in vivo; thus, chronic immune activation or modulation could elicit this unique mode of virus-infected cell survival.
Interleukins 1 alpha and 6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha are paracrine inhibitors of human melanocyte proliferation and melanogenesis.	Interleukin (IL)-1 alpha, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha are epidermal cytokines that produce many similar biologic effects. We have investigated the possibility that these cytokines act as regulators of melanization and proliferation of cultured normal human melanocytes (NHM). All three cytokines elicited a dose-dependent decrease in the activity of the enzyme tyrosinase after 48 h of treatment. IL-1 alpha had the greatest inhibitory effect, resulting in a 22% inhibition of tyrosinase activity at a concentration of 3 x 10(-14) M. An equivalent effect was elicited by 4 x 10(-11) M IL-6 and 10(-11) M TNF-alpha. All three cytokines also inhibited melanocyte proliferation, as measured by a decrease in the rate of 3H-thymidine incorporation and an increase in doubling time. IL-1 alpha at 6 x 10(-14) M, 6 x 10(-13) M, and 3 x 10(-12) M, TNF-alpha at 10(-10) M, 10(-9) M, and 10(-8) M, and IL-6 at 4 x 10(-10) and 1.2 x 10(-9) M produced a dose-dependent inhibition of 3H-thymidine incorporation. The effects of IL-1 alpha, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 were cytostatic, not cytotoxic, because melanocytes remained viable following several treatments with the cytokines. Also, melanocytes treated with IL-1 alpha and TNF-alpha recovered and resumed proliferation after cessation of treatment. These effects of IL-1 alpha, IL-6 and TNF-alpha do not seem to be mediated by stimulation of eicosanoid production, because inhibition of arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism by indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, and nordihydroguaiaretic acid, a lipoxygenase inhibitor, did not reverse the inhibitory effects on either proliferation or tyrosinase activity of NHM. This is the first demonstration that NHM respond to epidermal cytokines, and suggests a role for paracrine and possibly autocrine regulation of melanocytes by immune modulators.
T cell receptor-mediated selection of functional rat CD8 T cells from defined immature thymocyte precursors in short-term suspension culture.	Recent results have indicated that positive and negative repertoire selection act on the major population of CD4,8 double-positive (DP) thymocytes that express 5-10-fold less T cell receptor (TCR) than mature T cells (i.e., they are TCRlow). Since DP cells obtained ex vivo are heterogeneous with regard to their stage within thymic selection, a homogeneous population of virgin DP cells suitable for selection studies was generated in vitro from their immediate precursors, the CD8 single-positive (SP) immature blast cells. To mimic TCR-mediated selection signals, these virgin DP cells were then cultured for another 2 d in the presence of immobilized anti-TCR monoclonal antibodies with or without interleukin 2 (IL-2). Daily monitoring of recovery and phenotype showed that without TCR stimulation, the cells remained DP and became small, TCRlow cells that were lost with a half-life of 1 d, regardless of the presence of IL-2. TCR stimulation resulted in rapid downregulation of CD4 and CD8, maintenance of a larger cell size, and induction of the CD53 antigen that marks mature and CD4,8 double-negative rat thymocytes. In the absence of IL-2, viability decreased as rapidly as without TCR stimulation. Addition of IL-2 rescued TCR-stimulated virgin DP cells and prevented CD8 downregulation, so that 50-80% of input DP cells were recovered after 2 d as CD4-8+53+ cells. After release from modulation, these in vitro generated CD8 SP cells quantitatively upregulated the TCR to the TCRhigh phenotype and were readily induced to proliferate and exhibit cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity in a polyclonal readout. Evidence is presented implicating an IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) not containing the p55 chain (i.e., most likely the p70 intermediate affinity IL-2R) in the TCR plus IL-2-driven in vitro differentiation of virgin DP cells towards the mature CD8 SP phenotype.
Mutants from V79 fibroblasts exhibiting hypersensitivity to aphidicolin and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine.	One variant, aphhs-3 was previously isolated based on a hypersensitivity to nontoxic concentrations of aphidicolin, a specific inhibitor of DNA polymerases-alpha and delta. This variant was found to be more sensitive to temperatures above 35 degrees C and to 10 microM of 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (zidovudine, azidothymidine, or AZT) than the parental 743x cells. DNA polymerase activities in the cell extract or in the partially purified fraction by DEAE-cellulose (DE52) anion exchange column from aphhs-3 were active at 40 degrees C. No significant differences in deoxynucleoside triphosphate pools were observed at 34 degrees C for both the parental 743x and aphhs-3 cells. Revertants were isolated at 39 degrees C: six revertants (aphhs-3-tr1 through aphhs-3-tr6) were obtained without aphidicolin; one revertant aphhs-3-tar (the tar clone) was selected in aphidicolin (0.12 microM). The hypersensitivity to aphidicolin (Aphhs) and AZT (AZThs) was cosegregated in the revertant aphhs-3-tr5 (the tr5 clone), while the tar clone was not AZThs. There was a similar increase in the specific activity of 3H-labeled DNA in all cell lines after additions of [3H]AZT or [3H]thymidine. Additions of purine or pyrimidine arabinosides (araT, araC, and araA) to all cell lines resulted in a similar cytotoxicity, suggesting the anabolism of dTTP was not defective in the tr5 clone. The spontaneous mutation rate at the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoryltransferase locus using replating techniques and 6-thioguanine resistance selection was less than or equal to 5 x 10(-7), 2.2 x 10(-6), or 1.3 x 10(-6) per generation for the tr5, 743x, or tar cell lines, respectively. Most importantly, DNA polymerase activities in the cell extract of the revertant tr5 clone were inhibited by 0.5 microM AZTTP. In contrast, no inhibition was observed in those of the parental 743x and revertant tar cells. The cosegregation of both Aphhs and AZThs in the tr5 revertant suggests that these two phenotypes may be a result of the same mutational event.
Acquisition of thymidylate by the obligate intracytoplasmic bacterium Rickettsia prowazekii.	The pathway for the acquisition of thymidylate in the obligate bacterial parasite Rickettsia prowazekii was determined. R. prowazekii growing in host cells with or without thymidine kinase failed to incorporate into its DNA the [3H]thymidine added to the culture. In the thymidine kinase-negative host cells, the label available to the rickettsiae in the host cell cytoplasm would have been thymidine, and in the thymidine kinase-positive host cells, it would have been both thymidine and TMP. Further support for the inability to utilize thymidine was the lack of thymidine kinase activity in extracts of R. prowazekii. However, [3H]uridine incorporation into the DNA of R. prowazekii was demonstrable (973 +/- 57 dpm/3 x 10(8) rickettsiae). This labeling of rickettsial DNA suggests the transport of uracil, uridine, uridine phosphates (UXP), or 2'-deoxyuridine phosphates, the conversion of the labeled precursor to thymidylate, and subsequent incorporation into DNA. This is supported by the demonstration of thymidylate synthase activity in extracts of R. prowazekii. The enzyme was determined to have a specific activity of 310 +/- 40 pmol/min/mg of protein and was inhibited greater than or equal to 70% by 5-fluoro-dUMP. The inability of R. prowazekii to utilize uracil was suggested by undetectable uracil phosphoribosyltransferase activity and by its inability to grow (less than 10% of control) in a uridine-starved mutant cell line (Urd-A) supplemented with 50 microM to 1 mM uracil. In contrast, the rickettsiae were able to grow in Urd-A cells that were uridine starved and supplemented with 20 microM uridine (117% of control). However, no measurable uridine kinase activity could be measured in extracts of R. prowazekii. Normal rickettsial growth (92% of control) was observed when the host cell was blocked with thymidine so that the host cell's dUXP pool was depressed to a level inadequate for growth and DNA synthesis in the host cell. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that rickettsiae transport UXP from the host cell's cytoplasm and that they synthesize TTP from UXP.
Barnase toxin: a new chimeric toxin composed of pseudomonas exotoxin A and barnase.	We have constructed a chimeric toxin composed of Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE) and the extracellular ribonuclease of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, barnase. The chimeric protein, termed PE-Bar, reacted with both anti-PE and anti-barnase antisera and had both ADP ribosylation and ribonuclease activities. The chimeric toxin was cytotoxic to the murine fibroblast cell line L929 and to a murine hybridoma resistant to PE. A mutant form of PE-Bar lacking ADP-ribosylating activity was still cytotoxic to L929 cells. Because treatment of cells prelabeld with [3H]uridine resulted in a decrease in their RNA content, we conclude that this cytotoxic effect was due to the ribonuclease activity of barnase molecules that had been translocated to the cytosol. It is now possible to construct chimeric toxins with two or more enzymatic activities that can be delivered to the cytosol of the target cells.
Bryostatins selectively regulate protein kinase C-mediated effects on GH4 cell proliferation.	The phorbol ester tumor promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate [TPA) or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate), directly activates the calcium- and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C (protein kinase C), which, in turn, generates a number of cellular responses. The bryostatins, a family of macrocyclic lactones isolated from marine bryozoans, also bind to and active protein kinase C. However, they differ from TPA in the selectivity of their responses in that they behave either as agonists or antagonists of protein kinase C actions. We used several bryostatins and TPA to examine the role of protein kinase C in the regulation of GH4C1 rat pituitary tumor cell proliferation. TPA inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation in GH4 cells in a stereoselective and concentration-dependent manner. Examination of cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry revealed that TPA decreased the percentage of cells in S-phase and proportionally increased the percentage of G1-phase cells. Bryostatin 1 alone did not affect cell proliferation, but prevented the TPA inhibition of cell proliferation. Bryostatin 1 treatment from 30 min to 6 h after TPA treatment also prevented the growth-inhibitory action of TPA, suggesting that prolonged stimulation of protein kinase C is necessary for growth inhibition. Both bryostatin 1 and TPA down-regulated protein kinase C, indicating that down regulation of the enzyme cannot account for the growth inhibitory action of TPA. Bryostatin 2, which differs from bryostatin 1 by a hydroxyl substitution for the acetyl group at the C-7 carbon of the macrocyclic lactone ring (R1), inhibited cell proliferation and did not reduce the growth-inhibitory action of TPA. Bryostatins 3 and 8 (each of which has an ester group in the R1 position, yet contains other structural modifications) are antagonists for TPA inhibition of GH4 cell proliferation like bryostatin 1. We next examined the effect of bryostatins 3 and 8 on cell-substratum adhesion, a cellular response observed after GH4 cells are treated with growth-inhibitory agents. Bryostatin 8 (like bryostatin 1) did not enhance cell-substratum adhesion and blocked the action of TPA. In contrast, bryostatin 3 enhanced cell-substratum adhesion. Because bryostatin 3 blocked TPA inhibition of cell proliferation, yet did not block TPA-enhanced cell-substratum adhesion, these responses are not interdependent. We next examined the effect of bryostatin on other growth-inhibitory agents for GH4 cells. Bryostatin 8 blocks the effect of TPA on [3H]thymidine incorporation and the entry of G1 cells into S-phase, but does not block the growth-inhibitory action of thyrotropin-releasing hormone or epidermal growth factor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cell cycle dependency of murine cytomegalovirus replication in synchronized 3T3 cells.	Synchronized murine 3T3 cells have been used to investigate the possible dependency of murine cytomegalovirus replication upon the cell cycle. The normal latent period of 12 h characteristic of asynchronous 3T3 cells was protracted to more than 24 h after an early G1 infection in synchronous cells. In this case viral progeny were not detected until after the initiation of the host S-phase. Cells maintained in the G1 phase did not replicate virus. This failure could not be explained by a decrease in virus penetration but was apparently due to a requirement for an event associated with the host S-phase. Thymidine-induced inhibition of cell cycle traverse also blocked virus replication. Viral DNA synthesis did not initiate until after the initiation of host DNA. In contrast, herpes simplex virus type 1 replicated in 3T3 cells independently of the cell cycle.
Effect of sulfur mustard on murine lymphocytes.	The effect on spleen cells of a single in vivo treatment with sulfur mustard was analyzed in mice 1 week after intoxication. A marked decrease in the number of total spleen cells was observed in mice receiving high doses of sulfur mustard. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that B-lymphocytes were relatively more affected than T-lymphocytes by this toxic compound. However, the function of remaining B-cells, measured by thymidine incorporation and immunoglobulin secretion in the presence of lipopolysaccharide, was not significantly impaired. In addition, sulfur mustard did not depress T-lymphocyte function since their proliferation in response to concanavalin A or to an anti-CD3 antibody was not affected by the treatment. These results suggest that whereas some observations reported in patients can be found in a murine model, additional in vitro studies with human lymphocytes could more adequately provide further information on sulfur-mustard-induced alterations of the immune system.
Hormonal control of adrenocortical cell proliferation. Desensitization to ACTH and interaction between ACTH and fibroblast growth factor in bovine adrenocortical cell cultures.	A primary bovine adrenocortical cell culture system responsive to physiological concentrations of ACTH has been established. When added to cultures, ACTH inhibited DNA synthesis and cell division over the same concentration range required for stimulation of fluorogenic steroid production (0.01-10 nM). With chronic exposure to ACTH, cells became desensitized to the growth inhibitory effects of ACTH. Though cell growth was initially completely inhibited by ACTH, cells ultimately began to grow in its continued presence. The lag time to initiation of cell growth, the rate of growth, and the final density achieved depended on the ACTH concentration. Desensitization to ACTH(1-39) was not induced by monobutyryl cyclic AMP nor by ACTH(11-24). Specificity of desensitization was apparent because cells which had become desensitized to ACTH(1-39) remained fully responsive to monobutyryl cyclic AMP, prostaglandin E(1), and cholera toxin. Though the effects of ACTH on cell growth were readily reversible upon hormone removal, the desensitized response to readdition of ACTH persisted for at least 8 h. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) stimulated both the growth rate and saturation density achieved. FGF did not alter the growth inhibitory effects of ACTH nor the reduced growth rate observed in desensitized cells maintained in ACTH. However, FGF greatly increased the saturation density achieved by cultures maintained with ACTH. Through the process of desensitization, adrenocortical cells are able to grow in the presence of high concentrations of ACTH and to respond to the effects of a growth factor by increasing the cell density achieved. This pattern of response may be a general one for growth control under the combined effects of antimitotic and mitotic factors.
Differentiation of memory T cells to virus plaque-forming cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes.	The aims of this study were to define the T-cell subpopulation(s) detected by the virus plaque assay, and particularly to determine whether the virus plaque assay could be used to enumerate cytotoxic T lymphocytes. In addition, studies were undertaken to ascertain whether cell proliferation was required for development of cytotoxic effector function and virus plaque formation by these subpopulations. The results of experiments with a secondary mouse mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC) model indicated that 70 percent of virus plaque-forming cells bore the Ly 1 phenotype and 30 percent the Ly 2,3 phenotype. Three lines of evidence suggested that cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) can be detected by this assay: the fact that some virus plaque-forming cells (V-PFC) bear the same Ly phenotype as CTL; the use of an inhibitor of DNA synthesis indicated that proliferating cells could be eliminated with no effect on V-PFC production and cytotoxic activity of the Ly 2,3 cell population; and that infection of primed lymphocyteswith vesicular stomatitis virus before (MLC) stimulation eliminated cytotoxic activity. In primary MLC, development of V-PFC and CTL was completely abolished by cytosine arabinoside. In contrast, in secondary MLC, some CTL and V- PFC were generated by antigenic stimulation in the absence of proliferation. However, the development of both functions became progressively more susceptible to cytosine arabinoside as the time between primary immunization and in vitro boosting is increased. It is suggested that there may be a considerable disparity between the number of existing effector cells at any given time and the cytotoxic potential, i.e. the number of cells capable of being generated by antigenic stimulation.
Jaw protruder muscles and condylar cartilage growth in the rat.	Many studies have explored the role of the protrusive musculature in promoting growth at the condylar cartilage and the overall lengthening of the lower jaw, with emphasis on the lateral pterygoid muscle (LPM). The largely anteroposterior orientation of the superficial part of the masseter muscle (SM) in the rat suggests that it may also function as a protruder of the lower jaw. Accordingly, it is possible that the action of the SM may play a part in the regulation of growth of the condylar cartilage and the lower jaw. To examine this hypothesis, bilateral resection of the superficial portion of the masseter muscle was performed in male Sprague-Dawley rats at 26 days of age. At 5 days after surgery, [3H]-thymidine incorporation in the condylar cartilage was increased (F = 6.93, p less than or equal to 0.01) in the SM myectomy group relative to the surgical control and unoperated control groups. However, by 20 days after surgery no differences were present. At this sacrifice interval, lower jaw dimensions relating to areas of muscle attachment, as well as ramus height, were significantly reduced in the SM myectomy group, but overall jaw length (mental foramen to condyle) was unaffected. In contrast, myotomy of the LPM resulted in a significant decrease in mitotic activity of the cartilage 4 days after surgery. This decrease was present, but not more pronounced, in animals subjected to both SM myectomy and LPM myotomy. Hence, myotomy or myectomy of these two muscles, each with a protrusive orientation, produces opposite effects on proliferative activity at the condylar cartilage.
Inhibition of activity-induced parotid growth by submandibular gland ablation or autonomic denervation.	When solid chow was reintroduced for 2 days to rats previously maintained on an all-liquid diet, [3H]thymidine incorporation into rat parotid gland was 2.4-4.4 times that of chow-fed or liquid-fed animals. When the submandibular-sublingual glands were removed before the change in diet from liquid to solid food, values for [3H]thymidine incorporation of parotid gland were not statistically different from those of chow-fed rats: the increase was completely prevented. The increase in gland size that accompanied the change in dietary consistency was not prevented by prior submandibular gland ablation; [3H]uridine incorporation was also not different from that of chow controls. The removal of both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves to the parotid gland before the dietary manipulation also suppressed [3H]thymidine incorporation into parotid, and values did not differ from chow controls. Moreover, the return to normal gland size (chow level) also was prevented by autonomic denervation. The data show an important role of the submandibular gland in regulation of the thymidine increase associated with the enhanced parotid activity that accompanies the change from liquid to solid diet. However, the submandibular gland does not have an important role in regulation of the increase in gland size that also accompanies the dietary change, whereas the autonomic nerves have an important role in regulation of hypertrophy and hyperplasia of parotid gland.
Effects of chlorpromazine on the cell envelope proteins of Escherichia coli.	Chlorpromazine (CPZ), at a concentration of 60 micrograms/ml of medium completely inhibited the replication of Escherichia coli. At concentrations below this MIC, CPZ caused transient induction of filamentation, such that by the end of 5 h, all of the cells were filaments, and by the end of 24 h, only rod-shaped E. coli were present. The reversion to normal morphology in the presence of CPZ was not due to either the degradation of CPZ or the selection of CPZ-resistant mutants. The electrophoretic pattern of proteins extracted from isolated cell envelopes of CPZ-induced filaments as well as from E. coli that reverted to normal morphology was distinctly different from that of the controls.
Effects of lymphocyte activation on transfer RNAs.	The influences of mitogen activation on the functional capacity of rat splenic tRNAs were evaluated. The specific amino acid acceptor activity, pmol of a specific amino acid accepted per nmol of tRNA, of isolated splenic tRNAs from in vivo Concanavalin A (37 h)-treated rats were up to 8 times the specific amino acid acceptor activities of splenic tRNAs from control rats. Control splenic tRNAs were treated with purified liver tRNA nucleotidyltransferase in vitro to repair the 3'[CCA] terminus of tRNAs, and subsequently assayed in an aminoacylation reaction. The specific amino acid acceptor activities were slightly increased over those tRNAs not repaired with tRNA nucleotidyltransferase, indicating the presence of a low level of defective but repairable tRNAs in the control rat spleen. Furthermore, our results indicate that cyclosporin A (inhibitor of lymphocyte activation) blocks the Concanavalin A stimulation of tRNA charging ranging from 16 to 93%.
Ceruloplasmin stimulates thymidine incorporation by CCL-39 cells in the absence of serum or growth factors.	The incorporation of tritiated thymidine into CCL-39 cells grown in the absence of fetal calf serum or other growth factors is greatly increased by low concentrations of ceruloplasmin. The stimulation is greater than observed with serum or thrombin. Addition of serum decreases the thymidine incorporation with ceruloplasmin to the level with serum alone. As with serum, the response to ceruloplasmin is high at both 20% and 1% oxygen, which is consistent with the action of ceruloplasmin as an oxidant with a high affinity for oxygen. Since transplasma membrane electron transport increases cell growth and thymidine incorporation, ceruloplasmin may act as a terminal oxidase for ferrous iron or ascorbate to stimulate transplasma membrane electron transport. The four electron transfer from ceruloplasmin to oxygen to form water will prevent peroxide formation at the cell surface. Alternatively, superoxide formation inside the cell or membrane could employ the superoxide dismutase function of ceruloplasmin to produce peroxide. Either mechanism would be consistent with the previously described stimulation of growth by external oxidants.
Growth inhibitory factor of human alveolar macrophage.	The effect of human lung conditioned medium (HLCM) on the DNA synthesis in cultured human alveolar macrophages (HAM) was evaluated. The medium from human lung cultured for 3 days (3d-HLCM) promoted the DNA synthesis as well as the recombinant human GM-CSF does. On the other hand, that cultured for six days (6d-HLCM) did not promote the DNA synthesis but strongly suppressed GM-CSF induced DNA synthesis in HAM. This growth inhibitory effect was also observed when several macrophage like cell lines were cultured with 6d-HLCM. Partial purification of an inhibitory factor on gel permeation HPLC revealed two distinct peaks of activity with molecular weights of 38 kd and 110 kd.
Inhibition of growth factor signaling pathways by lovastatin.	Human fibroblasts treated with the antihypercholesterolaemic drug, lovastatin, displayed a diminished signaling response to epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). Supplementing the culture medium with mevalonic acid restored the signaling response. Not all growth factor signaling pathways were impaired, however, as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) responses were refractory to lovastatin treatment. These results suggest the involvement of product(s) of mevalonate metabolism (e.g., prenylated proteins such as p21ras or G proteins) in the signal transduction of EGF, insulin and IGF-I. The inhibition of cell growth by lovastatin may be caused by the inability of the cell to enter the S phase of the cell cycle due to obstruction of the signaling of progression factors.
Influence of human recombinant interleukin-1 beta on human articular cartilage. Mitotic activity and proteoglycan metabolism.	The effects of human recombinant interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) were investigated on recently isolated (1 to 3 weeks) and on well-established (older than 3 weeks) monolayer cultured human articular chondrocytes. IL-1 beta was found to depress 35S-proteoglycan synthesis rates and to enhance prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in these monolayer cultured chondrocytes. Induction of 35S-proteoglycan-degradative activity by these cells also occurred in IL-1 beta treated cultures. These "catabolin" -IL-1 activities were observed in recently isolated as well as in well-established "old" cultures. IL-1 beta increased 3H-thymidine incorporation rates in the "old" cultures. However, in recently isolated chondrocytes a dose-dependent reduction of the 3H-thymidine incorporation occurred. The depression of mitotic activity in these cells was partially abolished by indomethacin, indicating that this depression was a PGE2 effect. However, supplementing IL-1 beta with indomethacin did not raise the 3H-thymidine incorporation rates above the control levels. It can be concluded that IL-1 beta in itself is unable to induce proliferation in recently isolated cartilage cells. Our results suggest the possible existence of two different receptors for the different IL-1 beta activities. Hence, human articular chondrocytes respond differently to in vitro IL-1 beta exposure at different stages of differentiation.
Cultured epithelioid astrocytes migrate after transplantation into the adult rat brain.	A highly purified population of dividing epithelioid astrocytes has been prepared from postnatal rat corpus callosum. These cells were labelled in culture by incorporation of either [3H]thymidine or fluorescent microspheres and transplanted in a fibrin clot into the hippocampi of adult syngeneic rats. Transplanted cells divided in vivo and progressively migrated into the host brain from the site of implantation up to distances of about 1 mm. After a 1-week survival, transplant cells stained strongly for glial fibrillary acidic protein and had the thick sinuous processes characteristic of stellate astrocytes. Artefactual transfer of radiolabel to host cells was ruled out by control experiments in which either the proportion of transplant cells that were radiolabelled was varied or radiolabelled transplant cells were killed prior to implantation. Astrocyte migration over the first days after implantation was determined to occur at a rate of approximately 100 microns per day. Transplant cells moved into both grey and white matter areas of the host brain and over the migratory period were commonly observed to be associated with blood vessels. Some transplant cells were directly juxtaposed against neuronal perikarya and dendrites. Many labelled astrocytes were located in areas that were apparently completely free of damage caused by implantation. These results define a class of mature astrocytic cells that have the ability to migrate through the adult brain. The existence of pathways for cell movement in the adult CNS has implications for the mechanisms of tissue remodelling after injury and transplantation, for regenerative repair of the CNS, and for the dynamics of cell-cell contacts in the normal adult mammalian brain.
Effects of nursing on growth and development of small bowel mucosa in newborn piglets.	Trophic factors in natural milk are potential mediators of the rapid growth of intestine in neonates. To determine whether nursing stimulates growth and development of small bowel mucosa, litters of piglets were divided into suckled and artificially reared groups at birth. The latter animals were raised in an automated feeding device (Autosow) with an artificial diet simulating the nutritional composition of sow milk. At 2, 8, and 15 d of age, animals were killed and 10-cm segments of jejunum, mid-bowel, and ileum were removed. Mucosal homogenates were prepared for enzyme assay and measurement of mucosal mass. Mean body weight, total length of bowel, and circumference of bowel segments did not differ between the two feeding groups at any age studied. As anticipated, mean mucosal ornithine decarboxylase activity decreased (p less than 0.001) and measurements of mucosal mass increased (p less than 0.001) with age; however, mean values for each of these measures were never greater in the nursed animals in comparison to the artificially reared group in any segment at any age. In addition, levels of disaccharidase activity did not correlate with the feeding regimen. To investigate the possibility that unanticipated growth factors in the artificial diet might have accounted for the apparent lack of trophic effect of nursing compared to artificial rearing, we evaluated the effects of this diet and of sow colostrum on 3H-thymidine incorporation in Swiss 3T3 cells in vitro. Colostrum, but not artificial diet, stimulated greater incorporation of 3H-thymidine than culture medium alone (p less than 0.005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Assessment of the role of DNA damage and repair in the survival of primary cultures of rat cutaneous keratinocytes exposed to bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide.	Toxicity manifests itself as vesication in human skin exposed topically to bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide (BCES). The destruction of the proliferating population of epidermal cells is a major component of the pathogenic process. Available data strongly suggest that damage to cellular DNA is a critical factor in the loss of these cells. However, the influence of DNA repair on this toxic response has not been adequately studied. Therefore, a study was undertaken to ascertain the influence of DNA repair on the survival of primary monolayer cultures of rat cutaneous keratinocytes exposed to BCES. The sensitive nucleoid sedimentation assay was employed for the determination of DNA damage in cultures exposed to very low levels of BCES. Initial experiments demonstrated that within 1 hr of exposure to as little as 0.1 microM BCES the structural integrity of cellular DNA was compromised, presumably resulting from the appearance of single-strand breaks in the nucleic acid. This same effect was demonstrated in basal cells derived from a stratified, cornified culture grown at the air-liquid interface and exposed topically to the vesicant. Further studies with the monolayer culture demonstrated that the gross structural integrity of the DNA in cells exposed to as much as 5 microM BCES was completely restored within the first 22 hr following the exposure. However, this repair process appeared to be inefficient since a depression of thymidine incorporation into DNA and a significant loss of DNA were exhibited in exposed cultures as long as 72 hr after the initial exposure.
Suppression of the growth of the androgen-insensitive R3327 HI rat prostatic carcinoma by combined estrogen and antiprogestin treatment.	The antiprogestin RU486 has been shown to inhibit the growth of a number of tumor cell lines and solid tumors which contain significant concentrations of progesterone receptor (PgR). It has been suggested that growth suppression may be due to a PgR-mediated cytotoxic effect. The R3327 HI prostatic carcinoma of the rat is considered to be a model for human prostatic carcinoma which has become resistant to androgen deprivation therapy. Since it is possible to induce high concentrations of PgR in this tumor with estrogen, it was of interest to investigate the possibility that RU486 could suppress its growth. Growth was assessed by tumor diameter, [3H]thymidine uptake and histopathological appearance after 2 or 8 weeks treatment with RU486 alone, diethylstilbestrol (DES) alone, and combined RU + DES treatment as compared with control animals. Tumor growth was not affected significantly by DES treatment alone. RU486 treatment alone suppressed PgR content and resulted in only insignificant inhibition of growth. However, when significant PgR concentrations were maintained by combined treatment with DES, RU486 significantly suppressed tumor growth (0.01 less than P less than 0.05 vs controls). This was accompanied by atrophy of the glandular epithelium. The results support the hypothesis that growth suppression may be brought about by a PgR-mediated mechanism. The data suggest that it may be possible to treat androgen-insensitive prostatic carcinoma by a new form of hormonal treatment.
Effect of neonatal milk-prolactin deprivation on the ontogeny of the immune system of the rat.	A growing body of evidence suggests that prolactin (PRL) is involved in regulation of the immune system in the adult. PRL provided to the neonate in mother's milk also has been shown to be important in development of the neonatal neuroendocrine regulation of PRL secretion. Therefore, in this study we asked if deprivation of the neonate of milk-PRL on days 2-5 postpartum affected the ontogeny of the immune system. Two aspects, DNA synthesis (3H-thymidine incorporation) of neonatal lymphocytes in response to polyclonal mitogens in vitro and expression of lymphoid cell surface antigens, were examined. Splenocytes and thymocytes from neonates ranging in age from 5 to 28 days were taken from mothers treated with bromocriptine or saline on days 2-5 of lactation. Splenocytes from pups of vehicle-treated mothers showed a gradual increase in surface antigen expression by day 5 to 28. Thymocyte patterns and percentages of these surface proteins were at adult levels at the earliest times tested. Thymocytes from day 5 and 10 neonates were more responsive to Con A than were splenocytes, but both thymocytes and splenocytes showed an increase in mitogenic responsiveness until day 18, a sharp decline at day 21, and an increase again at day 28. The fact that day 21 is the time of intestinal closure (cessation of absorption of macromolecules from the gut) suggested that milk-borne material plays a role in immune cell maturation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat milk inhibits the mitogenic response of Nb2 lymphoma cells to prolactin.	Prolactin-like bioactivity in the rat milk was observed using the lactogen specific Nb2 lymphoma assay. The water soluble fraction (infranatant) of pooled milk samples obtained on days 2, 12 or 22 postpartum stimulated Nb2 cell growth in the range of 0.08-2.5 microliters/well. Higher concentrations of day-12 and day-22 (but not day-2) milk infranatant, however, decreased Nb2 proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion. [3H]-thymidine incorporation used as an indicator of cell growth was decreased by 21%, 49% and 83% at the doses of 5, 10, 20 microliters/well concentrations of day-22 milk infranatant, respectively. Milk infranatant did not reduce cell viability as assessed by Erythrosin B exclusion test. Addition of exogenous rat PRL (NIH B-6) at concentrations of ED50-ED90 did not restore the Nb2 proliferation rate decreased by milk infranatant. Saturating doses of PRL (ED100-ED400) resulted in maximal cell growth, but failed to counteract the inhibitory effect of milk infranatant. The relative molecular weight of the putative Nb2 cell inhibitor of rat milk is between 10 kDa and 30 kDa as determined by ultrafiltration and dialysis. The inhibitory activity of milk infranatant is stable at physiological pH, but is destroyed upon acidification. Thirty min of incubation at 37 degrees C enhanced but 30 min of incubation at 100 degrees C only slightly decreased the calculated total inhibitory effect of milk infranatant. These initial results indicate the presence of a water-soluble antimitogenic factor in rat milk (rMAF) which inhibits the Nb2 lymphoma cell response to prolactin in a non-competitive manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Induction of differentiation in human HL-60 cells by 4-hydroxynonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation.	4-Hydroxynonenal (HNE) is the major diffusible toxic product generated by lipid peroxidation of cellular membranes. The level of lipid peroxidation and, consequently, the concentration of its products are inversely related to the rate of cell proliferation and directly related to the level of cell differentiation. In the present paper the effects of HNE on the proliferation and differentiation of the HL-60 human promyelocytic cell line have been investigated. Repeated treatment at 45-min intervals with HNE (1 microM) was performed to maintain the cells in the presence of the aldehyde for 7 1/2 or 9 h. The effect of HNE on cell proliferation and differentiation was compared with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)-treated cells. HNE causes a strong inhibition of cell growth without affecting cell viability. Moreover, HL-60 cells acquire the capability to produce chemiluminescence after soluble (phorbol myristate acetate) or corpuscolate (zymosan) stimulation. The phagocytic ability has also been calculated by counting the number of cells that phagocytize opsonized zymosan. Values were 43 and 55% after 10 or 12 HNE treatments, respectively, and 88% in DMSO-treated cells. Myeloperoxidase activity, 5 days after treatment, decreased by 85% in either HNE- or DMSO-treated cells while acid phosphatase activity increased with respect to untreated cells. Results obtained indicate that HNE at concentrations close to those found in the normal tissues can induce inhibition of proliferation and induction of differentiation in the HL-60 cell line.
Growth of normal human hepatocytes in primary culture: effect of hormones and growth factors on DNA synthesis.	Although the ability of hormones and growth factors to stimulate DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes has been investigated extensively, no such study of human hepatocytes has been reported. Here we describe a series of experiments to identify those factors that regulate human hepatocyte DNA synthesis in vitro and which therefore may play a role in the control of human liver regeneration. Human hepatocytes were isolated from normal liver tissue obtained after graft reduction for transplantation into pediatric recipients. Cells were maintained in culture for up to 5 days, and DNA synthesis was determined. Hydroxyurea reduced [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA by 95%, indicating replicative DNA synthesis. As previously found with rat hepatocytes, epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-alpha stimulated DNA synthesis at low nanomolar concentrations; transforming growth factor-alpha was slightly more potent. Although the overall rate of thymidine incorporation was lower than that for rodent cells, human hepatocytes were sensitive to lower concentrations of these growth factors, and the degree of stimulation was similar. Conversely, transforming growth factor-beta inhibited DNA synthesis at low picomolar levels. By contrast (unlike rat hepatocytes), arginine-vasopressin failed to initiate or potentiate DNA synthesis in human cells. These data indicate that normal human hepatocytes can respond to low concentrations of growth promoters or inhibitors, previously shown to have activity on rat hepatocytes. These factors may then play a role in control of human liver growth. However, important species differences are apparent, highlighting the limitations of extrapolating from animal studies to humans.
Cytotoxic effect of adriamycin and agarose-coupled adriamycin on glomerular epithelial cells: role of free radicals.	It has been suggested that the generation of toxic radicals plays an important role in toxicity by Adriamycin (ADR) on cancer cell lines and in vivo. We have examined the role of free radicals in determining toxicity and resistance to ADR of rat glomerular epithelial cells in culture; this method provides a good model for analyzing the mechanisms responsible for ADR experimental nephrosis in rats. Three points were established: a) the intra- or extracellular site of ADR toxicity; b) the role of the superoxide anion and of the hydroxyl radical in determining intra- and -extracellular cytotoxicity; and c) the implication of oxido-reduction cycling as a potential route for ADR semiquinone transformation. Free ADR was found to induce the same inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA as ADR bound to an agarose macroporous bed which prevents the intracellular incorporation of the drug. Specific scavenging of free radical activity by the enzymes catalase and superoxide dismutase, the hydroxyl radical inhibitors dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylthiourea (DMTU) and by chelation of intracellular free iron with deferoxamine produced only a partial restoration of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA, which was maximal for DMTU (30% of normal incorporation). DMTU treatment was unsuccessful in preventing the extracellular cytostatic effect of ADR. Finally, glomerular epithelial cell killing (51Cr-release method) by 5-iminodaunorubicin, an ADR analogue with a modified quinone function that prohibits oxido-reduction cycling, was higher than unmodified ADR. These results indicate that ADR may exert its cytotoxic effects on glomerular epithelial cells by interaction at the cell surface, whereas the intracellular compartment, principally DNA, does not seen to be the target of ADR effects. They also suggest that the free radicals are in part responsible for ADR intracellular cytotoxicity, but other mechanisms should also be hypothesized. Finally, the participation of the ADR semiquinone radical in oxido-reduction cycling seems not important for the induction of the cellular damage.
Critical variables controlling cell proliferation in primary cultures of rat tracheal epithelial cells.	The purpose of our experiments was to examine variables affecting early events in the establishment of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cultures as well as factors regulating long-term RTE cell growth. The experiments showed that when RTE cells were seeded into complete serum-free medium between 13 and 30% of the seeded cells attached. Of the seeded cells, only approximately 2% entered into DNA synthesis and underwent repeated cell divisions to form colonies containing greater than 20 cells. Coating the dishes with extracellular matrix components had little effect on cell attachment or colony forming efficiency (CFE). However, coating the dishes with fetal bovine serum markedly increased CFE. The media components bovine serum albumin and bovine pituitary extract were shown to be important in promoting cell attachment as well as CFE. Cholera toxin on the other hand had no effect on cell attachment but significantly increased CFE. These and other studies showed that cell attachment and cell proliferation are independently regulated. Studies on long-term culture growth indicated that the number of progeny produced per colony forming unit (CFU) is inversely proportional to the number of CFUs seeded. Inasmuch as the cultures did not become confluent under any of the culture conditions tested and media obtained from high density cultures were shown to be growth inhibitory, these findings suggest that a diffusible growth restraining factor is being produced by the cultures limiting clonal expansion. Experiments showing growth inhibitory effects of media conditioned by high cell density cultures support this interpretation. The putative factor reaches critical concentrations earlier in cultures seeded with high numbers of CFU than in cultures seeded with low numbers of CFU. Because the cultures are known to produce transforming growth factor-beta, this growth regulator probably plays a role in controlling RTE cell proliferation. However, it is likely than other events, such as depletion of growth factors from the media, also are significant in regulating the growth of the cultures.
Lack of evidence for abnormal autocrine or paracrine mechanisms underlying the uncontrolled proliferation of primitive chronic myeloid leukemia progenitor cells.	Previous studies have revealed a consistent defect in the cycling behavior of primitive neoplastic progenitor cells in patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). This is manifested both in vivo and in long-term cultures of CML cells as an increased rate of turnover amongst Ph1-positive progenitor cell types whose counterparts in normal individuals are mainly quiescent. To determine whether this deregulated proliferative activity of primitive Ph1-positive cells might be explained by a perturbation in the production of growth factors that regulate the turnover of primitive normal cells, the possibility of either autocrine or paracrine mechanisms of Ph1-positive cell stimulation was investigated. Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA extracted from various CML blood cell populations showed no evidence of increased expression of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte-macrophage-CSF (GM-CSF), interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), IL-1 beta, IL-3, IL-6, or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) compared with analogous normal peripheral blood cell populations in which transcripts for most of these growth factors are not detectable. A similar analysis of RNA extracted from the adherent layer of 4-week-old long-term cultures established from CML marrow (in which the Ph1-positive cells typically disappear) or from CML blood seeded onto normal marrow adherent layers (in which Ph1-positive cells typically persist) also revealed no difference in growth factor production compared with analogous cultures established with exclusively normal cells. For some of the growth factors studied, the assessment of bioactivity detectable in the medium confirmed the RNA data. There was also no evidence of a decreased production of putative inhibitors of primitive hematopoietic cells, i.e. transforming growth factor-beta and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha by CML versus normal cells or cultures. These results do not support the existence of BCR-ABL induced autocrine or paracrine mechanisms in CML and suggest that constitutive activation of events normally dependent on growth factor receptor stimulation is more likely to underlie the lack of proliferation control exhibited by primitive Ph1-positive cells.
TIP39/parathyroid hormone type 2 receptor signaling is a potent inhibitor of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation.	Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) is a member of the parathyroid hormone (PTH) family of peptide hormones that exerts its function by interacting with the PTH type 2 receptor (PTH2R). Presently, no known function has been attributed to this signaling pathway in the developing skeleton. We observed that TIP39 and PTH2R were present in the newborn mouse growth plate, with the receptor localizing in the resting zone whereas ligand expression was restricted exclusively in prehypertrophic and hypertrophic chondrocytes. By 8 wk of life, PTH2R, and to a lesser degree TIP39, immunoreactivity was present in articular chondrocytes. We therefore sought to investigate the role of TIP39/PTH2R signaling in chondrocytes by generating stably transfected CFK2 chondrocytic cells overexpressing PTH2R (CFK2R). TIP39 treatment of CFK2R clones in culture inhibited their proliferation by restricting cells at the G(0)/G(1) phase of the cell cycle, coupled with decreased expression and activity of cyclin-dependent kinases Cdk2 and Cdk4, while p21, an inhibitor of Cdks, was upregulated. In addition, TIP39 treatment decreased expression of differentiation markers in these cells associated with marked alterations in extracellular matrix and metalloproteinase expression. Transcription of Sox9, the master regulator of cartilage differentiation, was reduced in TIP39-treated CFK2R clones. Moreover, Sox9 promoter activity, as measured by luciferase reporter assay, was markedly diminished after TIP39 treatment. In summary, our results show that TIP39/PTH2R signaling inhibits proliferation and alters differentiation of chondrocytes by modulating SOX9 expression, thereby substantiating the functional significance of this signaling pathway in chondrocyte biology.
Further evidence for the hypothesis that beta-endorphin mediates maternal deprivation effects.	Lung DNA synthesis was examined in 9-day-old rat pups following a 2-hour separation from their mothers (maternal deprivation), and compared to that of pups placed with a nipple ligated dam (food deprivation) or a lactating dam (control). Maternally deprived pups consistently showed a significant reduction in lung DNA synthesis which was not attributable to food deprivation. Central administration of naloxone prevented the decrease in DNA synthesis observed after maternal deprivation but did not inhibit the reductions in lung DNA synthesis seen two hours after sc administration of isoproterenol, suggesting that DNA response to maternal deprivation is a specific opioid receptor mediated event. These results are consistent with previous reports from our laboratory indicating that CNS beta-endorphin may mediate many of the biological alterations observed following maternal deprivation in neonatal rats.
Deoxycytidine is salvaged not only into DNA but also into phospholipid precursors. III. dCOP-diacylglycerol formation in tonsillar lymphocytes.	In addition to the water-soluble deoxyliponucleotides (Spasokukotskaja et al. (1988), Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 155, 923), a lipid compound was shown to be labeled from external 3H-deoxycytidine (5-3H-CdR) in infant tonsillar lymphocytes. Chlorpromazine enhanced the labeling of this compound, identified by TLC as 3H-dCDP-diacylglycerol (3H-dCOP-DAG). The deoxynucleotide salvage pathway seems to be the main source for dCDP-DAG synthesis, as hydroxyurea increased its labeling from CdR. myo-Inositol induced the disappearance of 5-3H-dCOP-DAG, suggesting its utilization for phosphatidylinositol synthesis. 3H-Arabinosyl-Cytosine (araC) is also incorporated into the lipidic fraction at a rate comparable to its incorporation into DNA, supporting the effect of araC on membrane functions.
A correlation between liver plasma membrane-associated stimulatory activity (PMASA) and experimental cirrhosis formation.	In the course of experimental CCl4-induced cirrhosis, an increase of the membrane-associated factor stimulating 3T3 cells' proliferation in vitro was observed. Gel filtration showed an approximate molecular mass of 150 kDa. Extraction of growth stimulatory activity by liver perfusion in situ demonstrated a peripheral plasma membrane protein localization. The activity increased with an increasing number of CCl4 treatments, reaching a maximum at the tenth intoxication, faster than the proliferation of connective tissues. Cessation of treatment caused a decrease in activity to the level of untreated liver, although the amount of fibroblast-like cells remained large, which is evidence in favour of an hepatocyte origin of the factor.
Isolation and characterization of normal and neoplastic colonic epithelial cell populations.	The aim of the present study was to characterize rat mucosal colonic cells harvested from the crypt continuum during differentiation and dimethylhydrazine-induced neoplasia. The collection of colonocytes was performed using a modified nonenzymatic isolation procedure based on Ca2+ chelation and gentle mechanical dissociation. Light and electron microscopy histomorphological examinations, [3H]thymidine incorporation studies, and activity gradients of alkaline phosphatase, thymidine kinase, and cytoskeleton-associated protein tyrosine kinase indicated that distinct cell populations were harvested from the various crypt regions in a temporal sequence mirroring their zonal and functional distribution in situ. After dimethylhydrazine administration, marked protein tyrosine kinase activity was noted in colonic cells harvested from upper crypt zones. The misplaced and sustained kinase activity preceded the actual polyp or tumor formation. This observation is consistent with the expansion of colonic proliferative compartments beyond allowable boundaries during the preneoplastic period. Companion studies in human colonic epithelial specimens corroborate the findings observed in normal and transformed murine colonocytes. It is believed that the characterization and manipulation of colonocytes using our in vitro model will provide important clues to the molecular events underlying the differentiation program and carcinogenic process in the colonic cell.
Changes in cell kinetics induced by primary chemotherapy in breast cancer.	Changes in the 3H-thymidine labelling index (3H-TdR LI) of primary tumor induced by cytoreductive chemotherapy were evaluated in 26 patients with locally advanced breast cancer subjected to mastectomy after different systemic therapies. A significant reduction of 3H-TdR LI by primary chemotherapy was observed in 11 cases. Changes in cell kinetics were related to the pretreatment proliferative activity: significant increases were observed in 70% of tumors with a very low 3H-TdR LI (less than 25%) and significant decreases in 100% of tumors with a very high 3H-TdR LI (greater than 7.0%). There was no correlation between pretreatment 3H-TdR LI and the objective clinical response, which was conversely related to posttreatment cell kinetics. The 2-year progression rate was lower for patients whose residual tumors after treatment had remained (2/7) or become (1/8) slowly proliferating than for patients whose tumors had remained (5/7) or become (4/4) rapidly proliferating.
Thimerosal induces calcium mobilization, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate synthesis and cytoplasmic alkalinization in rat thymus lymphocytes.	The effect of thimerosal on intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i), pH (pHi) and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (Fru 2,6-P2) in thymus lymphocytes was investigated. The effect of thimerosal on cell growth was also examined. Thimerosal produced a dose-dependent increase in [Ca2+]i, pHi and in the level of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate. Thimerosal was, however, unable to produce cell proliferation and inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation when cells were challenged with PHA and costimulator. In the absence of external calcium, thimerosal produced only a slight increase in [Ca2+]i. In Na(+)-containing buffer, thimerosal induced an initial acidification (0.05 +/- 0.01 pH units), followed by an alkalinization of 0.08 pH units/min, whereas in Na(+)-free media, pHi decreased 0.2 +/- 0.02 units and this acidification was maintained for more than 40 min. When external calcium was removed the initial acidification was unchanged and no further increase in pHi was observed. Polymyxin B, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, did not modify the initial thimerosal-induced acidification although pH returned to basal levels after 10 min. It was concluded that alkalinization induced by thimerosal is probably due to activation of the Na+/H+ exchanger and that changes in internal Ca2+, pH and metabolic rate are not sufficient to induce cellular proliferation. The mechanism by which thimerosal inhibits thymocyte proliferation remains to be clarified.
Characterization of the specific meningeal T cell response to intracerebral inoculation of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus.	The presence of a resident T lymphocyte population in the meninges of normal SJL/J mice has been detected by the use of the T cell-specific mitogen concanavalin A. Optimal conditions for [3H]thymidine incorporation were studied. An antigen-specific meningeal T cell proliferative response in SJL/J mice, primed by intracerebral inoculation of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus, was also detected. This response indicated that leptomeningeal mononuclear cell infiltrations are involved in the immune response that triggers the demyelinating disease.
Aqueous extract of Carica papaya leaves exhibits anti-tumor activity and immunomodulatory effects.	Various parts of Carica papaya Linn. (CP) have been traditionally used as ethnomedicine for a number of disorders, including cancer. There have been anecdotes of patients with advanced cancers achieving remission following consumption of tea extract made from CP leaves. However, the precise cellular mechanism of action of CP tea extracts remains unclear. The aim of the present study is to examine the effect of aqueous-extracted CP leaf fraction on the growth of various tumor cell lines and on the anti-tumor effect of human lymphocytes. In addition, we attempted to identify the functional molecular weight fraction in the CP leaf extract.
Satellite cell activation in the stretch-enlarged anterior latissimus dorsi muscle of the adult quail.	Satellite cell activity was examined in the stretch-enlarge anterior latissimus dorsi muscle (ALD) of the adult quail. Thirty-seven birds had a weight equal to 10% of their body mass attached to one wing while the contralateral wing served as an intra-animal control. At various time intervals after application of the wing weight (from 1 to 30 days), the birds were injected with tritiated thymidine and killed 1 h later. Stretched muscle length was greater by day 1 and mass by day 3 when compared with the contralateral muscle. Satellite cells actively synthesizing DNA were quantitated in fiber segments of the control and stretched ALD. A minimum of 1,500 muscle nuclei (satellite cell nuclei and myonuclei) were counted in each muscle. Labeling in stretched muscle was expressed by the percent labeled nuclei per total nuclei counted. Satellite cell labeling was initiated by day 1, peaked between days 3 and 7, and was not statistically different from control values at day 30. These results demonstrate that satellite cells are induced to enter the cell cycle in the stretch-enlarged ALD muscle from the adult quail, and the peak of proliferative activity is within the first week of stretch.
Protein kinase C activation allows pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells to proliferate to hypoxia.	Pulmonary artery (PA) smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation occurs with hypoxic pulmonary hypertension in vivo. However, proliferation of cultured PA SMC to hypoxia has not been demonstrated, and thus the mechanism by which these cells respond to hypoxia is unknown. Because protein kinase C (PKC) plays a role in intracellular transduction of proliferative signals, we asked whether PKC activation 1) causes proliferation of bovine PA SMC and 2) is important in PA SMC proliferative response to hypoxia. By measuring [3H]thymidine incorporation and cell counts, we found that quiescent PA SMC from four different cows proliferated with the PKC activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), in a concentration-dependent manner. The proliferation was blocked with a PKC inhibitor, dihydrosphingosine, or by downregulating SMC PKC. We tested whether "priming" PA SMC by PKC activation was required for in vitro SMC proliferative response to hypoxia. Each SMC population was treated with PMA and then exposed for 24 h to 20, 10, 7, 3 or 0% O2. These cells proliferated with hypoxia reaching a peak response at 3% O2. The magnitude of the response to PMA and hypoxia was different for each cell population tested. No hypoxic proliferation occurred in control cells (no PMA). Dihydrosphingosine blocked the hypoxic response to the same extent that it inhibited the initial PMA conditioning stimulus. PKC-downregulated PA SMC did not proliferate to PMA or to subsequent hypoxia. The hypoxic response was not due to a reduction in O2 radical-mediated antiproliferative effect; rather, the PMA-primed cells seemed to "acquire" the ability to directly sense hypoxia and proliferate. In summary, PKC activation caused proliferation of PA SMC in vitro and allowed an additional proliferative response to hypoxia. Activation of PKC may be a requisite step for PA SMC to respond directly to hypoxia.
Interleukin-4 is a potent mitogen for capillary endothelium.	Interleukin-4 (IL-4) is a mitogen for both microvascular (human adrenal capillary, HACE) and large vessel (human umbilical vein, HUVEC) endothelial cells. Comparison of growth promotion by IL-4 to that by the potent endothelial mitogen fibroblast growth factor (FGF) showed the activity of IL-4 on HACE cells to be strong (50% of that with FGF) but on HUVEC's weak (12% of that with FGF). Growth stimulation was characterised by both 3H-thymidine incorporation and by cell number, and was maximal at 1 nM IL-4. The presence of IL-4 receptors on HACE cells and HUVEC's was confirmed by specific binding of radioiodinated IL-4. Scatchard analysis confirmed a single high affinity binding receptor on both HACE cells (Kd = 80 pM, 358 receptors/cell) and HUVEC's (Kd = 88 pM, 2,580 receptors/cell). Potent activity on capillary as opposed to large vessel endothelium places IL-4 in a unique position amongst endothelial mitogens.
Effect of dexamethasone on uterine cell death.	Oestrogen, progesterone and androgen inhibit uterine cell death after the depletion of oestrogen. In the present study, we investigated effects of glucocorticoid on death of mouse uterine cells. Castrated female mice were given a daily injection of 17 beta-oestradiol (0.2 microgram/mouse/day) for 3 days, and then an injection of 5'-[125I]iodo-2'-deoxyuridine ([125I]IdUrd) to label DNAs of uterine cells with 125I. Mice were killed at intervals during subsequent treatments, and the retention of [125I]IdUrd incorporated into the whole uterus was determined. On subsequent injection of vehicle only, the 125I-radioactivity retained in the whole uterus rapidly decreased. Injections of dexamethasone (50 micrograms/mouse/day) reduced the loss of 125I-radioactivity slightly but significantly. Dexamethasone also showed synergistic effects on the retention of 125I-radioactivity when it was daily injected together with 17 beta-oestradiol, progesterone or 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone. The present results suggest that glucocorticoid may affect the processes involved in the uterine cell death, in a manner such as inhibiting the uterine cell death or delaying the removal of DNAs of dead cells from the uterus.
Metabolic effects of growth factors and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons on cultured human placental cells of early and late gestation.	The metabolic effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin, insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), and IGF-II were determined on human placental cells in monolayer culture obtained from early gestation (less than 20 weeks) and late gestation (38-42 weeks). Parameters studied were uptake of aminoisobutyric acid (AIB), uptake of 3-O-methylglucose and [3H]thymidine incorporation into cell protein. Since benzo[alpha]pyrene (BP) inhibits EGF binding and autophosphorylation in cultured human placental cells, particularly in early gestation, we also studied the effect of benzo[alpha]pyrene and other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) on EGF-mediated AIB uptake. The metabolic effects of EGF, insulin, and the IGFs in cultured human placental cells varied with gestational age and the growth factor studied. All three classes of growth factors stimulated AIB uptake in both early and late gestation at concentrations from 10-100 micrograms/L, well within a physiological range. However, insulin stimulation of AIB uptake was maximal at a high concentration (200 micrograms/L) in both early and late gestation cells, suggesting an action via type 1 IGF receptors rather than via insulin receptors. EGF stimulated 3-O-methylglucose uptake only in term placental cells. No significant stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation by any of the growth factors tested was seen with either early or late gestation cells. The effect of PAHs on AIB uptake by cultured placental cells was variable. BP alone stimulated AIB uptake by both very early and late gestation cells and enhanced EGF-stimulated AIB uptake. alpha-naphthoflavone alone inhibited AIB uptake at all gestational ages and inhibited EGF-stimulated AIB uptake. beta-Naphthoflavone and 3-methylcholanthrene minimally inhibited AIB uptake by early gestation cells and did not modify EGF-stimulated uptake at any gestational period. Our prior results demonstrated that BP more significantly inhibited EGF than IGF or insulin receptor binding as well as autophosphorylation in early gestation placenta, and that BP was the most potent of the PAHs tested. Thus, the direct effect of the PAHs on placental EGF receptors and amino acid transport may indicate altered function of EGF in the regulation of placental growth in smoking mothers that is developmentally regulated.
Regulation of glucose transport as well as glucose transporter and immediate early gene expression in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes by 8-bromo-cAMP.	In the present study we have examined the ability of 8-bromoadenosine cyclic 3',5'-phosphate (8-bromo-cAMP; the membrane permeant analog of cAMP which can activate protein kinase A) to mimic hormone action and stimulate glucose transport and glucose transporter (GLUT-1) gene expression as well as the expression of several growth-related protooncogenes in quiescent 3T3-L1 fibroblasts. 8-Bromo-cAMP induced a rapid and prolonged increase in the rate of hexose transport. Early activation of hexose transport (within 30 min) was associated with increased plasma membrane immunoreactive glucose transporters, which corresponded to a doubling in the number of D-glucose-displaceable, plasma membrane cytochalasin B binding sites. The time course for 8-bromo-cAMP-induced hexose transport preceded the accumulation of GLUT-1 mRNA, which peaked between 4 and 8 h after exposure to the agent, and subsequently declined to approach basal (control) levels. Expression of the immediate-early genes c-fos and jun-B was induced by 8-bromo-cAMP on a rapid, but sustained time course, whereas induction of c-jun expression was delayed. Alterations in specific mRNAs following exposure to 8-bromo-cAMP were due to increased gene transcription (as judged by nuclear transcription run-on assays), although with respect to GLUT-1, an increase in mRNA stability was also observed. Treatment of the cells with forskolin resulted in the induction of GLUT-1 expression as well as expression of the immediate early genes. Exposure of quiescent 3T3-L1 fibroblasts to 8-bromo-cAMP resulted in a substantial increase in rates of total protein and RNA synthesis, but had little effect on DNA synthesis. The results demonstrate that 8-bromo-cAMP initiated a G0/G1 transition, but did not permit progression into S-phase. The results further suggest that increased cytosolic cAMP results in the stimulation of glucose transport by three distinct mechanisms to include translocation of pre-existing transporters, increased transcription of the GLUT-1 gene and increased stability of GLUT-1 mRNA.
New adipocyte formation in mice during refeeding after long-term deprivation.	Cell kinetic characteristics of the epididymal adipose tissue of mice were examined during refeeding after prolonged food deprivation. Mature mice were given a glucose-electrolyte solution for 20-40 days, and subsequent to a body weight loss of 35%, they were given normal mouse food ad libitum. After refeeding, their body weight and adipose tissue weight returned to the levels before the deprivation. We examined the formation of new adipocytes in the epididymal adipose tissue with [3H]thymidine autoradiography. Flash labeling experiments revealed that cell proliferation was most active on the 6th day after refeeding and decreased thereafter until the 13th day when few labeled cells were seen. Cumulative labeling experiments showed that replicated poorly differentiated mesenchymal cells developed into adipocytes by storing fat droplets. New adipocyte formation was observed in adult mice during refeeding after long-term deprivation.
Multiple sodium-dependent nucleoside transport systems in bovine renal brush-border membrane vesicles.	Na(+)-dependent nucleoside transport was examined in bovine renal brush-border membrane vesicles. Two separate Na+/nucleoside cotransporters were shown to be present: (1) a system specific for purine nucleosides and uridine, designated as the N1 carrier, and (2) an Na(+)-dependent nucleoside transporter that accepts pyrimidine nucleosides, adenosine and analogues of adenosine, designated as the N2 system. Both systems exhibit a high affinity for nucleosides (apparent Km values approximately 10 microM), are insensitive to inhibition by facilitated-diffusion nucleoside transport inhibitors, are rheogenic and exhibit a high specificity for Na+. Na+ increases the affinity of the influx of guanosine and thymidine, nucleosides that serve as model permeants for the N1 and N2 nucleoside transporters respectively. The Na+/nucleoside coupling stoichiometry is consistent with 1:1 for both carriers.
Immunoglobulins stimulate central nervous system remyelination: electron microscopic and morphometric analysis of proliferating cells.	Infection with the Daniel strain of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus results in immunemediated primary demyelination in the spinal cords of susceptible SJL/J mice. Treatment of chronically infected mice (3 to 7 months) with purified immunoglobulins directed against spinal cord homogenate resulted in an increase in the number and average size of lesions that were undergoing remyelination by oligodendrocytes. In vivo autoradiography with [3H]thymidine demonstrated labeling of many lymphocytes in areas of demyelination and remyelination. A direct correlation was found between number of labeled lymphocytes infiltrating the lesion and size of demyelinating lesions. Remyelinated areas contained proliferating cells that resembled immature oligodendrocytes or progenitor glial cells morphologically. The number of labeled presumptive glial cells correlated with the area of remyelination. However, central nervous system remyelination occurred even in the presence of proliferating lymphocytes and astrocytic hypertrophy. In addition, treatment of normal uninfected SJL/J mice with antiserum to spinal cord homogenate resulted in increased numbers of proliferating cells in the spinal cord. These experiments suggest that immunoglobulins to a spinal cord antigen may induce proliferation of cells in the central nervous system to promote remyelination.
Synergistic antimicrobial activities of folic acid antagonists and nucleoside analogs.	The antimicrobial activities of folic acid antagonists are supposed to be antagonized by elevated extracellular thymidine concentrations in damaged host tissues. Therefore, this study was aimed at screening for nucleoside analogs that impair bacterial thymidine utilization and analyzing the combined antimicrobial activities of nucleoside analogs and folic acid antagonists in the presence of thymidine. Our screening results revealed that different nucleoside analogs, in particular halogenated derivatives of 2'-deoxyuridine, substantially impaired the bacterial utilization of extracellular thymidine in Staphylococcus aureus. Time-kill methods showed that 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine enhanced the extent of killing of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (SXT) at 24 h against S. aureus in the presence of thymidine (200 microg/liter). While SXT (40 mg/liter) alone did not kill bacteria in the presence of thymidine, its combination with the nucleoside analog at a concentration of 8 mumol/liter showed a bactericidal effect. Moreover, 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine combined with SXT in the presence of thymidine showed a broad spectrum of activity against several Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. In conclusion, these data provide evidence that the in vitro antimicrobial activity of SXT in the presence of thymidine can be significantly improved by combination with a nucleoside analog.
Epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer. II. Relationship between receptor expression and response to epidermal growth factor.	Previously we have shown that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for some, but not all, ovarian cancer cells in culture. In this study we examined the effect of epidermal growth factor on proliferation of normal human ovarian epithelial cells in monolayer culture. We found that epidermal growth factor stimulated twofold to fourfold increases in proliferation in epithelial cells from each of five normal ovaries (p less than 0.01). In addition, Scatchard analysis of binding of epidermal growth factor tagged with iodine 125 indicated the presence of high-affinity receptors in all of the ovarian epithelial cells and ovarian cancer cell lines. The number and affinity of receptors was similar in the normal epithelium and cancer cell lines, and there was no relationship between epidermal growth factor receptor number and responsiveness to epidermal growth factor. We conclude that human ovarian epithelial cells normally express epidermal growth factor receptors and that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for these cells. Although the mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor often is attenuated in ovarian cancer cell lines, loss of responsiveness to epidermal growth factor does not appear to be due to decreased receptor expression.
Mitogenic signals for platelet-derived growth factor isoforms in liver fat-storing cells.	Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), a key mitogen for liver fat-storing cells (FSC), is a dimeric molecule that occurs as homodimers or heterodimers of related polypeptide chains (PDGF-BB, -AB, and -AA). In chronic inflammation of the liver lobule, any of the three dimeric forms of PDGF derived from multiple sources could potentially interact with FSC. We explored the effects of the three different PDGF isoforms on DNA synthesis and early signal transduction pathways potentially related to PDGF mitogenicity in rat liver FSC. PDGF-BB homodimer and -AB heterodimer induced a marked increase in DNA synthesis, whereas the effect of PDGF-AA homodimer was considerably lower. Moreover, the mitogenicity of each isoform proportionally correlated with their effects on phosphoinositide turnover and intracellular Ca2+. Both the PDGF-BB and -AB dimers likely interact with the PDGF-beta-receptor, although PDGF-AB requires at least one alpha-receptor. The low responsiveness to PDGF-AA could not be accounted for by downregulation of the PDGF-alpha-receptor because FSC expressed very low levels of PDGF-A- and B-chain mRNAs and did not secrete detectable amounts of PDGF activity in the conditioned media. In addition, preincubation of FSC with suramin, a potent inhibitor of PDGF binding to its receptor, failed to increase PDGF-AA-induced DNA synthesis. These results are consistent with a predominant expression of PDGF-beta-receptor in liver FSC, that is linked to phospholipase C activation.
Regional differences in the prostate of the neonatally estrogenized mouse.	Neonatal estrogenization of the mouse with diethylstilbestrol resulted in time-of-exposure and dose-dependent inhibition of the growth of the prostatic lobes observed at the age of 2 mon. The critical time was the days 1-6 of postnatal life. In neonatally estrogenized (neoDES) mice, responses to 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone in terms of nuclear 3H-thymidine labelling were altered concomitantly with the inhibition of growth and were in accordance with changes in the relative volumes of epithelium, glandular lumina, and interacinar stroma. Secondary estrogen treatment of neoDES mice with 17 beta-estradiol did not increase 3H-thymidine labelling in the prostate of control or neoDES mice. However, it induced squamous epithelial metaplasia in periurethral collecting ducts and proximal parts of coagulating glands of neoDES animals. In control mice only slight epithelial hyperplasia could be observed after similar treatment. Estrogen receptors, located immunocytochemically in nuclei of stromal cell, corresponded with the sites of increased estrogen sensitivity, observed as metaplastic transformation. When the neoDES animals aged, epithelial hyperplasia and dysplasia could be observed at distinct prostatic sites, ie, the periurethral collecting ducts and the coagulating glands and periurethral glands, and stromal inflammation become more extensive. Almost identical location of the epithelial changes and the altered estrogen response is suggestive of causal relationship.
Fibroblast growth factor-mediated proliferation of central nervous system precursors depends on endogenous production of insulin-like growth factor I.	Fibroblast growth factor stimulates proliferation and subsequent differentiation of precursor cells isolated from the neuroepithelium of embryonic day 10 mice in vitro. Here we show that fibroblast growth factor-induced proliferation is dependent on the presence of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and that IGF-I is endogenously produced by the neuroepithelial cells. Blocking of endogenous IGF-I activity with anti-IGF-I antibodies results in complete inhibition of fibroblast growth factor-mediated proliferation and in cell death. IGF-I alone acts as a survival agent. These observations correlate with the detection of transcripts for IGF-I and basic fibroblast growth factor in freshly isolated neuroepithelium and are consistent with an autocrine action of these factors in early brain development in vivo.
A method for determination of iododeoxyuridine substitution of thymidine using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.	An assay for thymidine substitution by iododeoxyuridine (IdUrd) using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been developed. Three principal steps in this procedure are: extraction of DNA from cell or tissues, hydrolysis of DNA into deoxynucleosides and separation using HPLC. Approximately 1 microgram of DNA was recovered from 10(5) cells by phenol extraction, and subjected to hydrolysis into deoxynucleosides which required a three-stage DNA digestion using enzymes DNAse I. phosphodiesterase I and alkaline phosphatase. The deoxynucleosides were separated on the Microsorb C18 column with isocratic elution; 90-100% of the DNA was recovered as deoxynucleosides on the column. The method was used to determine quantitatively the percent IdUrd substitution of thymidine in Chinese hamster lung cells in vitro and BA1112 rhabdomyosarcoma in WAG/Rij rats perfused with IdUrd. It was possible to determine the thymidine substitution by IdUrd as small as 1% using a few micrograms of DNA. The close correspondence between the percent substitutions determined by HPLC and those determined by radioactive assay using [125I]-labelled IdUrd, confirmed the accuracy of our HPLC method. The HPLC analysis is especially suitable for the determination of percent IdUrd substitution of thymidine in tissue biopsies from animals used in in vivo experiments or humans undergoing radiation treatment.
Azidothymidine enhances fluorodeoxyuridine-mediated radiosensitization.	To examine the role of DNA repair and altered thymidine analogues in altering the response to radiation during thymidine deprivation.
Shedding of human neuroblastoma gangliosides.	Gangliosides shed by tumor cells are implicated in modulating tumor formation. For example, rapid progression of human neuroblastoma tumors is associated with high circulating levels of shed GD2 ganglioside. To elucidate the kinetic and qualitative characteristics of tumor cell ganglioside shedding, which is difficult to accomplish in vivo, we examined this process in LAN-5 human neuroblastoma cells in vitro. Three major gangliosides, GD2, GM2 and GT1b, comprise 82% of the mean total of 38 nmol LBSA/10(8) cells. These molecules are shed very rapidly (1-3 pmol/10(6) cells per h, or approx. 0.5% of the total cell gangliosides per h). Quantitative and qualitative characteristics of ganglioside shedding are remarkably constant over a 40-fold range of cell density. Not only GD2, but every major carbohydrate species is shed, in proportion to its concentration in the cell, with slightly greater shedding of ceramide subspecies containing shorter chain fatty acids. These findings were confirmed in three other neuroblastoma cell lines, LAN-1, IMR and KCNR. We suggest that the high expression and rapid generalized shedding of human neuroblastoma tumor gangliosides results in significant in vivo accumulation of these biologically active molecules during tumor growth.
Keratocyte activity in wound healing after epikeratophakia in rabbits.	Epikeratophakia is a refractive surgical procedure for the correction of aphakia, high myopia, or keratoconus. To solve clinical problems associated with epikeratophakia, a basic knowledge of its postoperative healing process is needed. The authors investigated keratocyte activities, particularly cell proliferation and collagen synthesis, during wound healing after epikeratophakia in rabbits. Epikeratophakia was done on rabbit corneas with a homologous cryolathed keratolens. Ten, 16, 28, 45, 63, 90, 254, and 360 days after the operation, the corneas were excised, labeled with either 3H-thymidine (10 microCi/ml) or 3H-proline (10 microCi/ml) for 4 hr and examined histologically and by autoradiography. Keratocytes in keratolenses were killed during the freezing process. On postoperative day 10, a few keratocytes migrated to the edge of the keratolens from the host stroma. On days 16 and 28, keratocytes in the keratolens and host stroma near the junction between the host and the keratolens incorporated 3H-thymidine, suggesting active proliferation. The proliferating activity was no longer seen after day 45. The repopulation of keratocytes was almost complete on day 90 and gradually returned to normal through day 360. Keratocytes in the keratolens and host stroma beneath the keratolens showed a higher 3H-proline incorporation than the control from days 16-254 with the highest activity at around 4-9 weeks after surgery. These results suggest that remodeling of collagen fibers continues for a long postoperative period after epikeratophakia.
Evidence supporting a passive role for the insulin receptor transmembrane domain in insulin-dependent signal transduction.	We previously have demonstrated that intramolecular interactions between alpha beta-alpha beta subunits are necessary for insulin-dependent activation of the protein kinase domain within a single alpha 2 beta 2 heterotetrameric insulin-receptor complex (Wilden, P. A., Morrison, B. D., and Pessin, J. E. (1989) Biochemistry 28, 785-792). To evaluate the role of the beta subunit transmembrane domain in the insulin-dependent signalling mechanism, mutant human insulin receptors containing a series of nested transmembrane domain deletions (amino acids 941-945) were generated and stable Chinese hamster ovary-transfected cell lines were obtained. In addition, a substitution of Val-938 for Glu (E/V938) similar to the oncogenic mutation found in the neu transmembrane domain was also introduced into the insulin receptor. Scatchard analysis of insulin binding to the stable Chinese hamster ovary cell lines expressing either wild type or mutant insulin receptors indicated equivalent receptor number (2-4 x 10(6)/cell) and similar high affinity binding constants (Kd 0.1-0.3 nM). 125I-Insulin affinity cross-linking demonstrated that all of the expressed insulin receptors were assembled and processed into alpha 2 beta 2 heterotetrameric complexes. Surprisingly, all the mutant insulin receptors retained insulin-stimulated autophosphorylation both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, endogenous substrate phosphorylation in vivo as well as insulin-stimulated thymidine incorporation into DNA were unaffected by the transmembrane domain mutations. These data demonstrate that marked structural alterations in the insulin receptor transmembrane domain do not interfere with insulin-dependent signal transduction.
Presence of oestrogen receptors on target cells and antiproliferative activity of estramustine phosphate: positive correlation for human tumours in vitro.	Incubation with estramustine phosphate for 24 h inhibited DNA, RNA and protein synthesis in primary cultures of human kidney, mammary, prostatic, cervical and endometrial carcinoma. Not only the presence, but also the concentration of oestrogen receptors correlated with estramustine phosphate effects on tumour cell proliferation.
Use of the deoxyuridine suppression test to evaluate localized folate deficiency in rat colonic epithelium.	In this study the deoxyuridine suppression test (dUST) was performed on isolated rat colonocytes to establish its value as an indicator of folate status in the colonic epithelium. [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA was suppressed greater than 90% by deoxyuridine (dU) concentrations greater than 2.5 mumol/L. Preincubation of cells with 5-fluorouracil (1-100 mumol/L) but not methotrexate (10-100 mumol/L) resulted in a significant decrease in the degree of suppression. The dUST performed on colonocytes from folate-deficient animals displayed less suppression than on colonocytes from folate-replete animals (P less than 0.05). The abnormal degree of suppression was corrected by adding 100 mumol folinic acid/L. There was a negative correlation between the degree of suppression and the folate concentration of the colonic epithelium (P less than 0.001). These data indicate that the dUST is useful for detecting folate deficiency in the colonic epithelium and may therefore be valuable in assessing a deficiency state localized to that epithelium.
Effect of elastase on aortic smooth muscle cell proliferation.	We studied the effects of elastase on [3H]thymidine incorporation into aortic smooth muscle cells. When elastase was added to cultured aortic smooth muscle cells, [3H]thymidine incorporation was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner in the presence of fetal bovine serum. Elastase also inhibited this incorporation in cells treated with epidermal growth factor. Epidermal growth factor (50 ng/ml) stimulated thymidine incorporation, without elastase, but with the addition of 20 units/ml of elastase the incorporation was inhibited 70%. The incorporation of thymidine into cells treated with 50 ng/ml epidermal growth factor was also inhibited 50% by a low concentration of elastase (5 units/ml). These inhibitory effects on thymidine incorporation were also observed in cells stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor. Platelet-derived growth factor (20 units/ml) markedly stimulated thymidine incorporation into cells, and elastase inhibited its activity in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that elastase has the potential to prevent the development of atherosclerosis by inhibiting smooth muscle proliferation.
Uptake of tritiated thymidine by cells of the rat gastric mucosa after exposure to loxtidine or omeprazole.	The H2-antagonist loxtidine and the H+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor omeprazole inhibit gastric acid secretion and both have been associated with the appearance of gastric tumours in rat cancer studies. Loxtidine is not genotoxic in a range of in vitro and in vivo assays. As false negative results can occur if the organotropic nature of the drug is not considered, both drugs were evaluated using an assay which estimates the uptake of tritiated thymidine by cells of the gastric mucosa (the target tissue) in comparison with the positive control, N-methyl-N-nitro-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), which others have shown to induce genetic damage in the stomach mucosa of rats. Such uptake may be, in part, indicative of unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) resultant from genotoxic damage. Serum gastrin levels were also determined at various times after either loxtidine or omeprazole treatment. Increased uptake of tritiated thymidine was only obtained after omeprazole or MNNG treatment, when this was estimated scintillometrically. The nature of the formulation of omeprazole was critical. The uptake of tritiated thymidine was greatest when omeprazole was administered in vehicle which had been buffered to pH 9. These effects were unlikely to be due to the trophic effects of gastrin since serum gastrin levels were similar after either loxtidine or omeprazole treatment. Autoradiographic analysis of stomach sections was also carried out and revealed a 2- to 3-fold increase in the number of labelled cells within the fundic mucosa as compared to the control values after treatment with MNNG or Losec (enteric coated granules of omeprazole).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dipyrone enhances intracellular accumulation and cytotoxicity of adriamycin in human chronic myeloid leukemia cells.	The cytotoxicity induced by dipyrone alone, or in combination with adriamycin (ADR) was studied in human chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells. The inhibition of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA was taken as a measure of cytotoxicity. While dipyrone alone indicated marginal inhibition, its combination with ADR demonstrated a potentiating effect (p less than 0.001), which was found to be irreversible. The enhanced cytotoxicity of the combination was a result of an increased drug accumulation as studied by the uptake of 14C-adriamycin. Observations indicate that dipyrone can be used to enhance the cytotoxicity of ADR in human CML patients.
Circumvention of drug resistance of P388/R cells by the combination of adriamycin and mitoxantrone with hyperthermia (42 degrees C).	P388/R, the adriamycin (ADR) resistant subline of murine P388 lymphocytic leukemia was cross-resistant to the drug mitoxantrone (MTN). One hour hyperthermia at 42 degrees C (HT) was employed along with ADR (10 micrograms/ml) and MTN (10 micrograms/ml) for circumventing the drug resistance of P388/R cells in in vitro-in vivo bioassays. Inhibition in the incorporation of tritiated thymidine into cellular DNA was measured to check the in vitro cytotoxic effect. Hyperthermia, ADR and MTN alone could not bring about significant degree of inhibition of DNA biosynthesis whereas the combination of ADR and MTN along with HT resulted in a synergistic cytotoxic action (p less than 0.001 and 0.01, respectively). The cells were treated with the drugs in vitro and inoculated into BDF1 mice. It was observed that ADR, MTN or HT pretreatment of the cells resulted in an increase of the life-span of the mice by 4.0-25.0%, 10-20% and 44-50%, respectively, whereas the pretreatment of cells with the combination of ADR and MTN with HT resulted in an increase by 104-125% and 212-220% in life-span of the mice, respectively. Studies revealed that the combination ADR-HT and MTN-HT resulted in circumvention of resistance of P388/R cells to ADR and MTN.
Ascitic tumor cell cycle metabolism and energetics.	Data are presented on Ehrlich ascitic tumor cells energetic metabolism, activities of the glycolytic enzymes and the pentose phosphate pathway enzymes, contents and synthesis rates of the macromolecules at various cell cycle stages. An attempt was made to correct the direct measurement by taking into consideration a systematic error introduced in the experiment by incomplete cells synchronization. Cell metabolism activation sharply increased at two mitotic cycle stages. At the first stage (end of G1-period, beginning of S-period) the processes associated with the preparation to reduplication and DNA synthesis were activated. The second activation wave (end of S-period, G2-period) was connected with cell preparation of mitosis. The coordination of cell metabolism variations during the cell cycle is shown.
Bursting response to current-evoked depolarization in rat CA1 pyramidal neurons is correlated with lucifer yellow dye coupling but not with the presence of calbindin-D28k.	Calbindin-D28k (CaBP) immunohistochemistry has been combined with electrophysiological recording and Lucifer Yellow (LY) cell identification in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal formation. CaBP is shown to be contained within a distinct sub-population of CA1 pyramidal cells which is equivalent to the superficial layer described by Lorente de N (1934). The neurogenesis of these CaBP-positive neurons occurs 1-2 days later than the CaBP-negative neurons in the deep pyramidal cell layer, as shown by 3H-thymidine autoradiography. No correlation could be found between the presence or absence of CaBP and the type of electrophysiological response to current-evoked depolarizing pulses. The latter could be separated into bursting or non-bursting types, and the bursting-type response was nearly always found to be associated with the presence of LY dye coupling. Furthermore, when dye coupling involved three neurons, a characteristic pattern was observed which may represent the coupling of phenotypically identical neurons into distinct functional units within the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. In this particular case the three neurons were all likely to be CaBP-positive.
Development of the rabbit retina. I. Size of eye and retina, and postnatal cell proliferation.	Measures of rabbit eyes and retinal wholemounts were used to evaluate the development of retinal area and shape. The retina is shown to have a horizontal axis about a third longer than the vertical axis just before birth, and to adopt an almost symmetrical shape during postnatal development to adulthood. In general, retinal thickness is shown to decrease after birth, but differently in particular retinal regions: the reduction is marked in the periphery, and less pronounced in the visual streak. As an exception, the myelinated region--after it becomes really myelinated, from 9 days p.p.--even increases in thickness. In all regions of the retina, the absolute and relative thickness of the nuclear layers decreases, whereas the relative thickness of plexiform and fibrous layers increases. Proliferation of cells within the rabbit retina was studied during the first three postnatal weeks. 3H-thymidine incorporation was used to demonstrate DNA synthesis autoradiographically in histological sections as well as in enzymatically isolated retinal cells. A first proliferation phase occurs in the neuroblastic cell layer and ceases shortly after birth in the retinal center, but lasts for about one week in the retinal periphery. We found, however, a few 3H-thymidine-labeled cells as late as in the third postnatal week. These late-labeled cells were found within the nerve fiber layer and in the inner plexiform layer. The latter cells were shown to express antigens detected by antibodies directed to the intermediate-sized filament protein vimentin, which are known to label Mller cells and neuroepithelial stem cells. This was confirmed in our preparation of enzymatically isolated cells; all cells with autoradiographically labeled nuclei revealed a characteristic elongated morphology typical for Mller radial glia (and also for early neuroepithelial stem cells). 3H-thymidine-labeled cells in the nerve fiber layer were most probably astrocytic. In analogy to the brain, we conclude that the mammalian retina undergoes a series of proliferation phases: first an early phase producing both neurons and glial cells, and then a late phase producing glial cells, e.g., in the nerve fiber layer. Most probably, the late phase within the inner nuclear layer is glial as well, i.e., consists of dividing Mller cells; it cannot be excluded, however, that there may remain some mitotically active stem cells.
Thymidine secretion by cultured chicken embryo fibroblasts and NIH/3T3 cells: quantification and time course.	Cultured chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) as well as mouse NIH/3T3 fibroblasts secrete substantial amounts of thymidine into the medium. The rate of secretion is maximal when the cells become confluent. In the medium of confluent primary cultures of CEF up to 10 microM thymidine was measured. Lower concentrations (1 to 2 microM) were found in media of NIH/3T3 cultures. In media conditioned by NIH/3T3 cells, the degradation product thymine was also found, which was not detectable in the sera and the media of CEF. Moderate inhibitory effects on the growth of CEF and NIH/3T3 cells (at least 10% with a relatively large range of variation) indicated that thymidine (2 to 5 microM) might contribute to cellular homeostasis. The secretion of high amounts of endogenous thymidine into cell culture media may falsify the assessment of DNA synthesis with labeled thymidine; thus a change of the medium is recommended when performing a thymidine pulse.
Localization of metallothionein in nuclei of growing primary cultured adult rat hepatocytes.	In primary cultured adult rat hepatocytes stimulated by epidermal growth factor and insulin, dramatic changes in the subcellular distribution of metallothionein were clarified by indirect immunofluorescence using antisera specific for this protein. Metallothionein was detected only in the cytoplasm of cultured hepatocytes in the G0 and G1 phases, but was concentrated in the cell nuclei in the early S phase. The strongest staining pattern in the nuclei was observed 12 h after stimulation. Subsequently, the intensity of metallothionein staining in the nuclei decreased. These results suggest that primary cultured hepatocytes are suitable for examining the relation between subcellular localization of metallothionein and cell growth.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 expression and effect in aortic smooth muscle cells from spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Previous studies demonstrated that in addition to an increased response to growth factors, cultured vascular smooth muscle cells derived from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) grow to a greater density than cells from normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) has a bimodal effect on vascular smooth muscle cell growth, depending on cell density. The present study investigated the relation between cell density and expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos and TGF-beta 1 in cells from WKY rats and SHRs. The results demonstrate an increased accumulation of c-fos mRNA in calf serum-stimulated SHR cells but only at a high cell density. The expression of TGF-beta 1 mRNA was enhanced in growing SHR cells at every density studied as early as 24 hours after inoculation, with a further increase at later times. The effect of exogenous TGF-beta 1 on new DNA synthesis was evaluated by [3H]thymidine incorporation. At a low cell density, TGF-beta 1 had no effect on DNA synthesis in either WKY or SHR vascular smooth muscle cells. At a high cell density, there was a significant increase of DNA synthesis in response to TGF-beta 1 in SHR cells without any effect in WKY cells. In conclusion, contact inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cells from SHRs at a higher cell density is accompanied by an earlier expression of the marker gene c-fos and preceded by an exaggerated expression of TGF-beta 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Production and survival of projection neurons in a forebrain vocal center of adult male canaries.	Neurons are produced in the adult canary telencephalon. Many of these cells are incorporated into the high vocal center (nucleus HVC), which participates in the control of learned song. In the present work, 3H-thymidine and fluorogold were employed to follow the differentiation and survival of HVC neurons born in adulthood. We found that many HVC neurons born in September grow long axons to the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (nucleus RA) and thus become part of the efferent pathway for song control. Many of these new neurons have already established their connections with RA by 30 d after their birth. By 240 d, 75-80% of the September-born HVC neurons project to RA. Most of these new projection neurons survive at least 8 months. The longevity of HVC neurons born in September suggests that these cells remain part of the vocal control circuit long enough to participate in the yearly renewal of the song repertoire.
Expression of memory to the terminal differentiation inducing activity of tiazofurin in HL-60 leukemia cells.	Tiazofurin, a potent inhibitor of inosine 5'-phosphate dehydrogenase, depletes guanine nucleotide pools and induces granulocytic maturation of HL-60 leukemia cells. These effects are reversed when cells exposed to this agent for 24 h are washed and placed in tiazofurin-free medium. HL-60 cells treated with tiazofurin for a 24 h period, retain a precommitment memory that lessens the time interval necessary for cells to express the mature phenotype upon re-exposure. That protein synthesis was required for maintaining the expression of memory was demonstrated by the finding that memory was blocked when primed cells were exposed to cycloheximide during the intervening inducer-free interval, but not during the priming or subsequent drug exposure periods. The findings have significance with respect to the sequence of events required for commitment to a differentiation pathway.
Pathogenesis of bromodeoxyuridine-induced cleft palate in hamster.	In the present study, the morphological, histochemical, biochemical, and cellular aspects of the pathogenesis of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-induced cleft palate in hamster fetuses were analyzed. Morphological observations indicated that BrdU interferes with the growth of the vertical shelves and thus induces cleft palate. At an ultrastructural level, BrdU-induced changes were first seen in the mesenchymal cells. Eighteen hours after drug administration, the initial alterations were characterized by swelling of the nuclear membrane and the appearance of lysosomes in the mesenchymal cells of the roof of the oronasal cavity. During the next 6 hr, as the palatal primordia developed, lysosomes were also seen in the overlying epithelial cells. The appearance of lysosomal activity, which was verified by acid phosphatase histochemistry, was temporally abnormal and was interpreted as a sublethal response to BrdU treatment. Later the cellular alterations subsided; 48 hr after BrdU treatment, they were absent in both the epithelial and mesenchymal cells of the vertically developing palatal shelves. Subsequently, unlike controls (in which the palatal shelves undergo reorientation and fusion), the BrdU-treated shelves remained vertical until term. Biochemical determination of DNA synthesis indicated that although there was an inhibition of DNA synthesis at the time of appearance of palatal primordia, a catch-up growth during the ensuing 12 hr may have restored the number of cells available for the formation of a vertical palatal shelf. It was suggested that BrdU affected cytodifferentiation in the palatal tissues during the critical phase of early vertical development to induce a cleft palate.
Tissue distribution, quantitation and proliferation kinetics of fat-storing cells in carbon tetrachloride-injured rat liver.	In this study, we have investigated the cell population kinetics of fat-storing cells in livers of rats intoxicated with CCl4. Fat-storing cells were identified in cryostat sections by immunoperoxidase staining of desmin. The peroxidase label was visualized using diaminobenzidine/hydrogen peroxide containing Ni2+ and Co(2+)-ions (Nico/diaminobenzidine method). In normal rats, we found 12.8 fat-storing cells/0.1 mm2 in periportal areas vs. 9.4 in pericentral fields. After one injection of CCl4, the number of pericentral cells increased gradually to reach a maximum of 39.4 cells/0.1 mm2 96 hr after injection. The desmin staining intensity of the pericentral fat-storing cells increased from 48 hr onward. At 72 to 120 hr, strongly stained cells were observed in pericentral areas and in bands of tissue between adjacent central veins, reminiscent of the connective tissue septa in fibrotic livers. In the periportal areas the number of fat-storing cells was not altered. After a second and third injection of CCl4, the number of cells increased further in the pericentral areas. When more than three injections were given, the pericentral fat-storing cell population reached a new steady state with the cell number being seven times higher than in control animals. Proliferation of fat-storing cells at different stages of CCl4 intoxication was studied by intravenous administration of 3H-thymidine, followed by combined desmin staining and autoradiography. Autoradiographical labeling of fat-storing cells was nearly absent in control animals and at 24 hr after a single CCl4 injection. At 48 to 96 hr, labeling indices of pericentral fat-storing cells were significantly higher than in control animals, with a maximum at 72 hr when 22.9% of the cells were labeled. After multiple injections of CCl4, labeling indices between 4.9% and 8.4% were found. We conclude that fibrogenesis is preceded by a strong expansion of the fat-storing cell population in the pericentral areas of the liver lobules and in bands of tissue between adjacent central veins. Local proliferation is an important mechanism underlying the expansion of this cell population.
Nonpolar nucleoside mimics as active substrates for human thymidine kinases.	We describe the use of nonpolar nucleoside analogues of systematically varied size and shape to probe the mechanisms by which the two human thymidine kinases (TK1 and TK2) recognize and phosphorylate their substrate, thymidine. Comparison of polar thymidine with a nonpolar isostere, 2,4-difluorotoluene deoxyriboside, as substrates for the two enzymes establishes that TK1 requires electrostatic complementarity to recognize the thymine base with high efficiency. Conversely, TK2 does not and phosphorylates the hydrophobic shape mimic with efficiency nearly the same as the natural substrate. To test the response to nucleobase size, thymidine-like analogues were systematically varied by replacing the 2,4 substituents on toluene with hydrogen and the halogen series (H, F, Cl, Br, I). Both enzymes showed a distinct preference for substrates having the natural size. To examine the shape preference, we prepared four mono- and difluorotoluene deoxyribosides with varying positions of substitutions. While TK1 did not accept these nonpolar analogues as substrates, TK2 did show varying levels of phosphorylation of the shape-varied set. This latter enzyme preferred toluene nucleoside analogues having steric projections at the 2 and 4 positions, as is found in thymine, and strongly disfavored substitution at the 3-position. Steady-state kinetics measurements showed that the 4-fluoro compound (7) had an apparent V(max)/K(m) value within 14-fold of the natural substrate, and the 2,4-difluoro compound (1), which is the closest isostere of thymidine, had a value within 2.5-fold. The results establish that nucleoside recognition mechanisms for the two classes of enzymes are very different. On the basis of these data, nonpolar nucleosides are likely to be active in the nucleotide salvage pathway in human cells, suggesting new designs for future bioactive molecules.
2-amino-isobutyric acid and 3-O-methyl-D-glucose transport in 3T3, SV 40-transformed 3T3 and revertant cell lines.	In order to further investigate the connection between transport and growth control, 3T3 cells, SV40 transformed 3T3 cells (SV101), and three revertant cell lines derived from SV101 which have regained certain manifestations of growth control were used. Transport rates of 2-amino-isobutyric acid and 3-O-methyl-D-glucose were measured in sparse, confluent, serum-starved, and serum-stimulated cultures. As shown before, cessation of 3T3 cell growth in G0 under conditions of confluence or serum deprivation was associated with reduced rates of transport for both compounds, whereas the density and serum dependence of growth and transport was largely eliminated in SV101. The density revertant F1SV101, which has regained density regulation of growth similar to 3T3 cells, has also regained density regulation of transport. Neither growth nor transport were serum dependent. The serum revertants AgammaSV7 and LsSV6 have regained both density and serum regulation of growth, but not according to the original mechanism of 3T3 cells of entry into a Go state. Transport was high under conditions of confluence or serum deprivation. Thus for these cells rates of transport were not reduced simply as a consequences of slower cell growth nor were low transport rates responsible for growth arrest. The data are consistent with the possibility that growth arrest specifically in the G0 state could shut off a number of cellular activities, including transport.
Entamoeba invadens: dynamics of DNA synthesis during differentiation from trophozoite to cyst.	The DNA dynamics which mediate conversion of uni-nucleate trophozoite into quadrinucleate cyst in Entamoeba histolytica is not well understood. Here, we have addressed this question in Entamoeba invadens (a model system for encystation) through a detailed time course study of the differentiation process. We combined flow cytometric analysis with the change in rate of thymidine incorporation and the number of nuclei per cell. Our data shows that during encystment the cell population passes through three phases: (1) Early phase (0-8h); of rapid DNA synthesis which may correspond to completion of ongoing DNA replication. Bi-nucleated cells increase with concomitant drop in uni-nucleated cells. (2) Commitment phase (8-24h); in which DNA synthesis rate slows down. Possibly new rounds of replication are initiated which proceed slowly, followed by mitosis at 20 h. After this the number of bi- and uni-nucleated cells gradually decline and the tri- and tetra-nucleated cells begin to increase. (3) Consolidation phase (24-72 h); in which the rate of DNA synthesis shows a small increase till 32 h and then begins to decline. The G2/M peak reappears at 48 h, showing that more rounds of DNA replication may be getting completed, followed by nuclear division. By 72 h the encystment is virtually complete. The bi-nucleated stage could be an intermediate both in the conversion of trophozoite to cyst and back. Our study provides a comprehensive view of DNA dynamics during encystation and excystation of E. invadens.
Acycloguanosyl 5'-thymidyltriphosphate, a thymidine analogue prodrug activated by telomerase, reduces pancreatic tumor growth in mice.	Gemcitabine is the standard of care for metastatic and nonresectable pancreatic tumors. Phase II and III trials have not demonstrated efficacy of recently developed reagents, compared with gemcitabine alone; new chemotherapic agents are needed. Ninety percent of pancreatic tumors have telomerase activity, and expression correlates with tumor stage. We developed a thymidine analogue prodrug, acycloguanosyl 5'-thymidyltriphosphate (ACV-TP-T), that is metabolized by telomerase and releases the active form of acyclovir. We investigated the antitumor efficacy of ACV-TP-T in vitro and in vivo.
Germinal sites and migrating routes of cells in the mesencephalic and diencephalic auditory areas in the African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis).	There is a clear core-shell organization in the auditory nuclei of amniotes. However, such organization only exists in the mesencephalic, but not in the diencephalic auditory regions of amphibians. To gain insights into how this core-shell organization developed and evolved, we injected a small dose of [(3)H]-thymidine into tadpoles of Xenopus laevis at peak stages of neurogenesis in the mesencephalic and diencephalic auditory areas. Following different survival times, the germinal sites and migrating routes of cells were examined in the shell (laminar nucleus, Tl; magnocellular nucleus, Tmc) and core (principal nucleus, Tp) regions of the mesencephalic auditory nucleus, torus semicircularis (Ts), as well as in the diencephalic auditory areas (posterior thalamic nucleus, P; central thalamic nucleus, C). Double labeling for [(3)H]-thymidine autoradiography and immunohistochemistry for vimentin was also performed to help determine the routes of cell migration. We found three major results. First, the germinal sites of Tp were intercalated between Tl and Tmc, arising from those of the shell regions. Second, although the germinal sites of Tl, Tmc, and Tp were located in the same brain levels (at rostromedial or caudomedial levels of Ts), neurogenesis in Tl or Tmc started earlier than that in Tp. Finally, the P and C were also generated in different ventricle sites. However, unlike Ts their neurogenesis showed no obvious temporal differences. These data demonstrate that a highly differentiated auditory region, such as Tp in Ts, is lacking in the diencephalon of amphibian. Our data are discussed from the view of the constitution and evolutionary origins of auditory nuclei in vertebrates.
Endosomal signalling of epidermal growth factor receptors contributes to EGF-stimulated cell cycle progression in primary hepatocytes.	Agonist-induced internalisation of receptors may lead to the formation of signalling endosomes. There is little evidence relating to whether this occurs to native receptors in non-transformed cells, and no previous studies asking whether this endosomal signalling can promote cell cycle progression in non-transformed cells. We investigated the hypothesis that in primary hepatocytes clathrin-dependent epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced internalisation of the EGF receptor leads to signalling from endosomal EGF-EGF receptor complexes which may support EGF-stimulated cell cycle progression. We used EGF-stimulation of rat hepatocytes followed by confocal microscopy, and Western blots for phosphoproteins. [(3)H]thymidine incorporation into DNA was used as a indicator of progression to S-phase. Confocal microscopy demonstrated co-internalisation of EGF, EGF receptors and transferrin into endosomes. Internalisation of EGF/EGF receptor/transferrin was blocked by expression of dominant-negative dynamin, but not by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor AG 1478. Dominant-negative dynamin expression reduced EGF-stimulated extracellular signal-related kinase and Akt signalling, but increased tyrosine phosphorylated EGF receptor. EGF-stimulated cell cycle progression requires stimulation of EGF receptors during an initial period (e.g. 1h) and also later during a 24h incubation. EGF receptor internalisation in the presence of AG 1478 followed by removal of the inhibitor resulted in signalling from internalised EGF receptors that is sufficient for the initial stimulation to provide progression to S-phase of the cell cycle. These observations on hepatocytes characterise, for the first time in non-transformed cells, endosomal signalling from internalised EGF receptors, and provide evidence that this endosomal signalling may support the early phase of EGF-stimulated cell cycle progression.
Metabolic imaging allows early prediction of response to vandetanib.	The RET (rearranged-during-transfection protein) protooncogene triggers multiple intracellular signaling cascades regulating cell cycle progression and cellular metabolism. We therefore hypothesized that metabolic imaging could allow noninvasive detection of response to the RET inhibitor vandetanib in vivo.
Polo-like kinase-1 as a novel target in neoplastic mast cells: demonstration of growth-inhibitory effects of small interfering RNA and the Polo-like kinase-1 targeting drug BI 2536.	In advanced systemic mastocytosis the response of neoplastic mast cells to conventional drugs is poor and the prognosis is bad. Current research is, therefore, attempting to identify novel drug targets in neoplastic mast cells. Polo-like kinase-1 is a serine/threonine kinase that plays an essential role in mitosis and has recently been introduced as a new target in myeloid leukemias and solid tumors.
Dependence of substrate binding and catalysis on pH, ionic strength, and temperature for thymine DNA glycosylase: Insights into recognition and processing of GT mispairs.	Repair of GT mismatches arising from deamination of 5-methylcytosine (m(5)C) involves excision of thymine and restoration of a GC pair via base excision repair (BER). Thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) is one of two mammalian enzymes that can specifically remove thymine from GT mispairs. While TDG can excise other bases, it maintains stringent specificity for a CpG context, suggesting deaminated m(5)C is an important biological substrate. Recent studies reveal TDG is essential for embryogenesis; it helps to maintain an active chromatin complex and initiates BER to counter aberrant de novo CpG methylation, which may involve excision of actively deaminated m(5)C. The relatively weak GT activity of TDG has been implicated in the hypermutability of CpG sites, which largely involves CT transitions arising from m(5)C deamination. Thus, it is important to understand how TDG recognizes and process substrates, particularly GT mispairs. Here, we extend our detailed studies of TDG by examining the dependence of substrate binding and catalysis on pH, ionic strength, and temperature. Catalytic activity is relatively constant for pH 5.5-9, but falls sharply for pH>9 due to severely weakened substrate binding, and, potentially, ionization of the target base. Substrate binding and catalysis diminish sharply with increasing ionic strength, particularly for GT substrates, due partly to effects on nucleotide flipping. TDG aggregates rapidly and irreversibly at 37C, but can be stabilized by specific and nonspecific DNA. The temperature dependence of catalysis reveals large and unexpected differences for GU and GT substrates, where GT activity exhibits much steeper temperature dependence. The results suggest that reversible nucleotide flipping is much more rapid for GT substrates, consistent with our previous findings that steric effects limit the active-site lifetime of thymine, which may account for the relatively weak GT activity. Our findings provide important insight into catalysis by TDG, particularly for mutagenic GT mispairs.
Sites of origin and developmental dynamics of the neurons in the core and shell regions of torus semicircularis in the Chinese softshell turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis).	To know the embryogenesis of the core and shell regions of the midbrain auditory nucleus, a single dose of [(3)H]-thymidine was injected into the turtle embryos at peak stages of neurogenesis in the shell and core of the torus semicircularis. Following sequential survival times, labeled neurons and the dynamics of cell proliferation were examined. The expression of vimentin (VM), reelin, calbindin, parvalbumin, and substance P were also studied. The results showed that: 1) progenitor cells for the core and shell regions were generated in different sites of the ventricular zone; 2) the length of the cell cycle or S-phase for the shell region were both longer than those for the core region (4.7 and 3.2 hours longer, respectively), suggesting that mitotic activity in the core region is higher than it is in the shell region; 3) the elongated cell bodies of the labeled core and shell cells had close apposition to VM fibers, suggesting that the migration of these cells is guided by VM fibers; 4) the germinal sites of the core and shell constructed by projecting the orientation of radial VM fibers back to the ventricular zone was consistent with those obtained by short and sequential survival [(3)H]-thymidine radiography; and 5) the beginning of positive staining for parvalbumin in the core region was interposed between those for calbindin and substance P in the shell regions. This study contributes to the understanding of how auditory nuclei are organized and how their components developed and evolved.
5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxycytidine as a new agent for DNA labeling: detection of proliferating cells.	The labeling of newly synthesized DNA in cells to identify cell proliferation is an important experimental technique. The most accurate methods incorporate [(3)H]thymidine or 5-bromo-2'-deoxyruidine (BrdU) into dividing cells during S phase, which is subsequently detected by autoradiography or immunohistochemistry, directly measuring the newly synthesized DNA. Recently, a novel method was developed to detect DNA synthesis in proliferating cells based on a novel thymidine analog, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU). EdU is incorporated into DNA and subsequently detected with a fluorescent azide via "click" chemistry. This novel technique is highly sensitive and does not require DNA denaturation. However, it was also found that EdU exhibits time-dependent inhibition effects on cell growth. Therefore, here we report a novel deoxycytidine analog, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxycytidine (EdC), that can be used to detect DNA synthesis in vitro and in vivo at a similar sensitivity level compared with EdU. Furthermore, the EdC-induced cytotoxicity is much less than that of EdU when combined with thymidine. This will be a potential application for the long-term detection of proliferating cells.
Jeju ground water containing vanadium induced immune activation on splenocytes of low dose -rays-irradiated mice.	Vanadium, an essential micronutrient, has been implicated in controlling diabetes and carcinogenesis and in impeding reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. -ray irradiation triggers DNA damage by inducing ROS production and causes diminution in radiosensitive immunocytes. In this study, we elucidate the immune activation capacities of Jeju water containing vanadium on immunosuppression caused by -ray irradiation, and identify its mechanism using various low doses of NaVO(3). We examined the intracellular ROS generation, DNA damage, cell proliferation, population of splenocytes, and cytokine/antibody profiles in irradiated mice drinking Jeju water for 180 days and in non-irradiated and in irradiated splenocytes both of which were treated with NaVO(3). Both Jeju water and 0.245 M NaVO(3) attenuated the intracellular ROS generation and DNA damage in splenocytes against -ray irradiation. Splenocytes were significantly proliferated by the long-term intake of Jeju water and by 0.245 M NaVO(3) treatment, and the expansion of B cells accounted for the increased number of splenocytes. Also, 0.245 M NaVO(3) treatment showed the potency to amplify the production of IFN- and total IgG in irradiated splenocytes, which correlated with the expansion of B cells. Collectively, Jeju water containing vanadium possesses the immune activation property against damages caused by -irradiation.
Possible aryl hydrocarbon receptor-independent pathway of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin-induced antiproliferative response in human breast cancer cells.	2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a ligand with high affinity for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). It suppresses 17-estradiol (E2)-induced cell proliferation in human breast cancer cells. Although it has been theorized that the AhR is involved in TCDD-induced antiestrogenic activity and antiproliferation in human breast cancer cells, some evidence suggests that these activities of chlorinated aromatic compounds also occur by AhR-independent pathways. Here, we investigated the possibility of TCDD-induced antiproliferative responses in human breast cancer cells through AhR-independent pathways. Compared with that in vehicle-treated controls, DNA synthesis was significantly suppressed in MCF-7 cells and ZR75-1 cells treated with TCDD at a very low concentration (0.01 nM), whereas that in human ovarian carcinoma OVCAR3 cells, human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells and human choriocarcinoma JEG-3 cells was unaffected, even by exposure to 10 nM TCDD. The suppression induced by TCDD was not associated with the estrogen receptor -signaling pathway. Another AhR agonist, 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl, had no effect on DNA synthesis in MCF-7 cells at concentrations high enough to induce the transactivation function of the AhR. Furthermore, in MCF-7 cells, knockdown of the AhR by RNA interference had no effect on TCDD-induced antiproliferation. These findings suggest that the principal pathways of TCDD-induced antiproliferation in breast cancer cells are not AhR dependent.
Dehydroepiandrosterone exerts antiglucocorticoid action on human preadipocyte proliferation, differentiation, and glucose uptake.	Glucocorticoids increase adipocyte proliferation and differentiation, a process underpinned by the local reactivation of inactive cortisone to active cortisol within adipocytes catalyzed by 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11-HSD1). The adrenal sex steroid precursor dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) has been shown to inhibit 11-HSD1 in murine adipocytes; however, rodent adrenals do not produce DHEA physiologically. Here, we aimed to determine the effects and underlying mechanisms of the potential antiglucocorticoid action of DHEA and its sulfate ester DHEAS in human preadipocytes. Utilizing a human subcutaneous preadipocyte cell line, Chub-S7, we examined the metabolism and effects of DHEA in human adipocytes, including adipocyte proliferation, differentiation, 11-HSD1 expression, and activity and glucose uptake. DHEA, but not DHEAS, significantly inhibited preadipocyte proliferation via cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase independent of sex steroid and glucocorticoid receptor activation. 11-HSD1 oxoreductase activity in differentiated adipocytes was inhibited by DHEA. DHEA coincubated with cortisone significantly inhibited preadipocyte differentiation, which was assessed by the expression of markers of early (LPL) and terminal (G3PDH) adipocyte differentiation. Coincubation with cortisol, negating the requirement for 11-HSD1 oxoreductase activity, diminished the inhibitory effect of DHEA. Further consistent with glucocorticoid-opposing effects of DHEA, insulin-independent glucose uptake was significantly enhanced by DHEA treatment. DHEA increases basal glucose uptake and inhibits human preadipocyte proliferation and differentiation, thereby exerting an antiglucocorticoid action. DHEA inhibition of the amplification of glucocorticoid action mediated by 11-HSD1 contributes to the inhibitory effect of DHEA on human preadipocyte differentiation.
Chicken histone genes retain nuclear matrix association throughout the cell cycle.	The association between histone genes and the nuclear matrix (NM) during periods of high (S-phase) and low (non-S-phase) transcriptional activity has been investigated with synchronized cells from a chicken erythroid cell line (abbreviated ts34). By DNase I and restriction enzyme analysis, these studies reveal that both core and linker histone genes (represented by H2A and H1 genes respectively) are attached to the NM independent of their transcriptional activity during the cell-cycle. The tissue-specific histone gene H5, expressed constitutively, is nuclear matrix (NM)-associated in ts34 cells but is found in the supernatant (S/N) fractions of a non-erythroid T-cell line. Furthermore, we show that DNA sequences necessary for NM-attachment of the H5 gene lie within a 780 base pair region spanning part of the coding and 5' non-translated region. Of the three non-histone genes investigated, beta-actin sequences are expressed and are NM-attached, feather keratin genes are not expressed and predominate in the S/N, and beta-globin genes although not expressed in the ts34 cell line used were found in the NM fraction. In this case the association may be fortuitous or may reflect an early event prior to transcription of globin genes in differentiating erythroid cells. These results generally support the notion that actively transcribed genes are NM-attached, but that attachment per se is not synonymous with transcription.
Selective osteoblast mitogens can be extracted from prostatic tissue.	Extracts of human prostatic carcinoma and of human benign prostatic hyperplasia were found to exhibit mitogenic activity in freshly isolated rat osteoblasts, rat fibroblasts, and osteoblast-derived osteosarcoma cells. This activity was markedly reduced by tryptic digestion of extracts, indicating its protein nature. Results of bioassay studies suggested that the prostatic material was different from a number of known growth factors. Analysis by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography revealed that extracts contained mitogenic activity for osteoblasts that was distinct from fibroblast-stimulating activity. Such osteoblast growth factors could form the basis of the skeletal osteogenic response to metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma.
Regulation of lipogenesis in mitogen-stimulated human lymphocytes by thyroid hormones.	The hormonal regulation of precursor incorporation into cellular lipids has been investigated in human lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemeagglutinine. Addition of thyroxine (5 micrograms/ml) for 72 h increased incorporation of [14C]acetate into the triacylglycerol fraction to 290% above the hormone-free control values. Incorporation into the cholesterol fraction was elevated up to 188% under the same conditions. Triiodothyronine was less effective than thyroxine: maximal effects were 153% of the control for triacylglycerols and 142% for cholesterol. Similar results were obtained when [14C]palmitic acid was used as a precursor for triacylglycerol synthesis. Effects of insulin on the parameters described were less pronounced than those obtained with thyroid hormones. Cellular triacylglycerol and protein contents were not elevated significantly by thyroid hormone addition. Further, incorporation of labelled thymidine, uridine, and leucine into acid-precipitable products was not elevated by triiodothyronine above mitogen-stimulated levels. It is concluded, that rapidly dividing lymphocytes provide a suitable system for studies concerning human lipid metabolism.
Preclinical trials with combinations and conjugates of T101 monoclonal antibody and doxorubicin.	We investigated the potential for additive therapy for malignancy using an anti-human T-cell monoclonal antibody, T101, and the chemotherapy agent doxorubicin (DOX). We compared the efficacy of T101 alone, DOX alone, T101 and DOX covalently linked to dextran to form an immunoconjugate, T101 plus DOX mixed together and injected, T101 and DOX injected separately, and nonspecific murine IgG2A plus DOX mixed together. Inhibition of [3H]thymidine was examined in vitro, and the clinical efficacy of each treatment was tested on human T-cell tumors growing in athymic mice. In vitro experiments confirmed retention of immunoreactivity and cytotoxicity by the immunoconjugate, but it was not superior to DOX alone. In efficacy experiments, all therapeutic arms were superior to placebo treatment (P less than 0.05). However, the best results in the animal tumor model were obtained with T101 mixed with DOX, perhaps because of formation of weak complexes via hydrophobic bonds. This mixture was superior to all other treatments, both by growth curve analysis (P less than 0.05) and by analysis of complete regression of tumor (P less than 0.01). T101 mixed with DOX was superior to a mixture of nonspecific mouse immunoglobulin and DOX and superior to a combination of T101 injected i.v. and DOX injected i.p. The antitumor effect of T101 mixed with DOX was blocked by premodulating the target antigen with T101. These data suggest that further exploration into monoclonal antibody-anthracycline complexes is warranted.
Involvement of the 2'-5' A pathway in the augmentation of natural killer activity.	Pretreatment of human large granular lymphocytes (LGL) or unseparated peripheral blood mononuclear cells with interferon (IFN) resulted in a significant augmentation of natural killer (NK) activity. This increase was paralleled by an increase in the 2'-5'A synthetase activity. In order to investigate the possibility that IFN might be inducing augmentation of NK cells via the 2'-5'A pathway, we tested the effects of nonphosphorylated core material [(A2'p)2A] and of the triphosphorylated form of the 2'-5'A [ppp(A2'p)2A]. The core material had no detectable effect on NK activity. In contrast, when experiments were performed with the triphosphorylated form of 2'-5'A, NK activity was stimulated. In order to achieve activation, permeabilization of LGL with calcium chloride was necessary and, under these conditions, a dose-dependent augmentation of NK activity was seen. However, the calcium treatment had considerable toxic effects on basal levels of NK activity. Collectively, these results suggest that IFN may be inducing augmentation of NK activity via the 2'-5'A pathway. Further studies will be necessary to determine the effects of IFN and/or 2'-5'A on subsequent activation steps in the process leading to cytotoxicity by NK cells.
Ultrastructural and autoradiographic observations on multinucleated blastomeres of human cleaving embryos obtained by in-vitro fertilization.	Human embryos from the 2-cell to the morula stage developing in vitro after monospermic fertilization were incubated with [3H]thymidine or [3H]uridine and those possessing multinucleated blastomeres were examined by conventional transmission electron microscopy and by light- and electron-microscope autoradiography. Labelled DNA was present in all nuclei showing normal ultrastructural appearance, in pseudonuclei lacking nucleoli and their precursors and often demonstrating an unusual chromatin organization, free in the cytoplasm in structures resembling aggregates of dense chromatin and in small cytoplasmic vesicles in the close vicinity of these aggregates. The labelling with [3H]thymidine was not detected in about 50% of the cytoplasmic chromatin aggregates, suggesting that this extranuclear DNA was no longer replicated. Signs of extrusion of pseudonuclei to the extracellular space were occasionally observed. RNA synthesis could not be detected on free cytoplasmic chromatin, while [3H]uridine was incorporated into all nuclei and most pseudonuclei of multinucleated blastomeres of embryos at the 8-cell and morula stages. However, the major outburst of transcriptional activity and the ultrastructural cytoplasmic changes typical of the assumption of embryonic genome expression, occurring normally at the 8-cell stage, were observed only exceptionally.
Antitrypanosomal action of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) analogs.	The present report deals with the alterations produced by cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (DDP), and 2 of its analogs: cis-Pt(II)(tranylcypromine)2Cl2 and cis-Pt(II)(benzothiazole)2Cl2 in cultured epimastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi. Studies have been performed at the ultrastructural level and the inhibitory effect of these complexes on macromolecule synthesis, evaluated by 3H-thymidine, 3H-uridine, and 3H-leucine incorporation, has been investigated. DDP at concentrations of 50 and 100 micrograms/ml does not inhibit significantly the incorporation of radioactive precursors, but a clear decrease was observed with the 2 analogs. Eight hours of treatment at a concentration of 10 micrograms/ml rendered in all 3 cases an increase in autophagic vacuoles and lipids as well as an abnormal condensation of the nucleus chromatin.
The partial dependency of human prostatic growth factor on steroid hormones in stimulating thymidine incorporation into DNA.	Growth factors stimulating DNA synthesis in mouse 3T3, human DU145, and LNCaP were partially purified from human benign hyperplastic and cancerous prostates. These factors have a high affinity for heparin sepharose and are eluted from the heparin-sepharose column, at 1.2 to 1.9 M NaCl. In normal prostates, the high affinity human prostatic growth factor occurred only in extremely small amounts. The high affinity growth factors stimulate DNA synthesis in 3T3, DU145, and LNCaP. Stimulation was significantly enhanced by 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone and 17 beta-estradiol in the androgen sensitive LNCaP cell line. SDS-PAGE and isoelectrofocusing confirmed that the partially purified factors had a molecular weight of 18 kDa and acidic isoelectric points of pH 3.6 and 4.7.
Inhibition of macromolecular synthesis by caffeine in Clostridium perfringens.	Caffeine (2 mg/mL) inhibited the incorporation of [14C]adenine into actively growing cells of Clostridium perfringens NCTC 8679 in a dose-dependent manner. Also reduced by caffeine was incorporation of [14C]thymidine and 14C-labeled amino acids. No effect on guanine, uracil, adenosine, guanosine, or uridine was detected. Actual incorporation of [14C]caffeine or [14C]thymine in control cultures did not occur.
Effect of intracellular folate concentration on the modulation of 5-fluorouracil cytotoxicity by the elevation of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate in cultured human KB cells.	The effects of extracellular folate concentration on intracellular folate and phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) levels and the cytotoxicity of methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil were studied in human KB cells grown in fetal bovine serum-supplemented Eagle's minimum essential medium, which contained standard high folic acid levels (2.3 microM) (standard or S medium), or folic acid-free serum-supplemented medium containing approximately 4 nM 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (physiological or P medium), a folate level and form more comparable to that in normal human serum. Macrocytosis and prolongation of the doubling time by 150% were observed after 5-10 serial passes in P medium, but after 10-15 serial passes, KB cells became "adapted" to P medium with return of size and doubling time to values indistinguishable from cells maintained in S medium. Cellular folate levels fell, and marked elevations in PRPP levels from 68 +/- 43 to 642 +/- 287 pmol/mg cell protein (mean +/- SD) were observed as KB cells were serially passed through P medium. Human leukemia HL-60 and K562 cells and MJY-alpha mouse mammary tumor cells serially passed in P medium also exhibited 10- to 20-fold elevations in PRPP levels. Glucose consumption, glucose decarboxylation, thymidine and adenosine specific uptake, thymidine incorporation into DNA, and 5-fluorouracil uptake were studied in KB cells with elevated and control PRPP levels. As determined by clonal assay, despite elevated PRPP levels, KB cells cultured in P medium were less sensitive to 5-fluorouracil than cells cultured in S medium unless exogenous folate was added. These data support the concept that endogenous folate levels may be inadequate for optimal 5-FU pharmacological action in KB cells with a modulated increase in PRPP levels.
Development and characterization of monoclonal antibodies to murine macrophage colony-stimulating factor.	The macrophage-specific CSF (CSF-1), purified from murine L cell-conditioned medium, supports the in vitro proliferation and survival of various murine mononuclear phagocyte colony-forming cells. In this report we describe the production and functional characterization of two monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to CSF-1 obtained from rat X rat hybridomas. These two mAb are functionally distinct and recognize different epitopes on CSF-1. The mAb 5A1 binds to and inhibits the biologic function of CSF-1, and the second mAb (D24) binds CSF-1 but does not neutralize its biologic activity. The mAb 5A1 inhibits colony formation of tissue mononuclear phagocyte colony-forming cells as well as the committed bone marrow stem cells for both granulocytes and monocytes. The extent of colony inhibition by mAb 5A1 is dependent on the tissue origin of colony-forming cells. CSF-1 complexed with mAb 5A1 does not bind to its cell surface receptor of peritoneal exudate macrophages, and mAb 5A1 does not complex with cell-bound CSF-1. Although both bone marrow cell-derived macrophages and J774.1 macrophages bind CSF-1, mAb 5A1 inhibits the proliferation of only bone marrow cell-derived macrophages. The non-neutralizing mAb D24 does not block binding of CSF-1 to its cellular receptor, and it recognizes cell-bound CSF-1.
Angiogenesis: quantitative assessment by the chick chorioallantoic membrane assay.	The aim of the present work was to improve quantitative assessment of angiogenesis by chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay based on measurement of DNA synthesis. Following incubation of [3H]thymidine (3H-T) with CAM in vivo, incorporation of 3H-T to DNA fraction was expressed as percent of total 3H-T present in the initial homogenate of CAM, regardless of CAM weight and full recovery of applied radioactivity. The assay required simple, partial isolation of DNA to remove traces of free or unspecifically bound 3H-T. These modifications gave a reproducible assay with adequate precision (10-20%). DNA content of CAM did not change between 10-15 days of embryo development and growth of CAM was completed on day 11. 10 to 12-day old CAMs were used for evaluation of the assay. Using a qualitative approach (visual scoring), tissues of several tumors were implanted on CAM. Extracts of tumors that produced the highest score stimulated DNA synthesis in CAM. A similar effect was induced by EGF while cytostatics inhibited DNA synthesis in CAM. Since stimulation of angiogenesis is not a cell type-specific phenomenon, the assay in the present modification should aid the studies on angiogenic factors. With the help of this assay the angiogenic activity of adenocarcinoma of human endometrium was described.
Aminoacylation of synthetic DNAs corresponding to Escherichia coli phenylalanine and lysine tRNAs.	Synthetic DNA oligomers (tDNAs) corresponding to Escherichia coli tRNA(Phe) or tRNA(Lys) have been synthesized with either deoxythymidine (dT) or deoxyuridine (dU) substituted in the positions occupied by ribouridine or its derivatives. The tDNAs inhibited the aminoacylation of their respective tRNAs with their cognate amino acids, but not the aminoacylation of tRNA(Leu) with Leu. In the presence of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, species of both a tDNA(Phe) synthesized with a 3' terminal riboadenosine and a tDNA(Lys) containing only deoxynucleotides could be aminoacylated with the appropriate amino acids, although the Michaelis constant Km and observed maximal rate Vmax values for aminoacylation were increased by three- to fourfold and decreased by two- to threefold, respectively. The aminoacylation of synthetic tDNAs demonstrates that the ribose backbone of a tRNA is not absolutely required for tRNA aminoacylation.
Optimal temperature for synthesis of DNA, RNA, and protein by human testis in vitro.	To determine the optimal temperature for DNA, RNA, and protein syntheses in the human testis, the levels of incorporation of 3H-thymidine, 14C-uridine, and 14C-leucine into testicular tissue were studied at 28 degrees C, 31 degrees C, 34 degrees C, and 37 degrees C in vitro. The results suggest that the DNA synthesis is at a maximum at 31 degrees C and shows delicate temperature sensitivity, whereas the RNA and protein syntheses are at a maximum at 34 degrees C or 37 degrees C and are temperature-dependent. It is concluded that the temperature sensitivity of DNA synthesis may be one of the primary causes of delicate thermal inhibition of human spermatogenesis.
Preferential response of acute myeloid leukemias with translocation involving chromosome 17 to human recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.	Induction of proliferation and differentiation in response to the addition of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was studied by both suspension and semisolid cultures in a series of acute myeloid leukemias (AML). Induction of proliferation by G-CSF alone was observed in six of 27 cases of AML. All acute promyelocytic leukemias with the specific chromosomal translocation t(15;17) and one case of myelomonocytic leukemia with balanced chromosomal translocation involving chromosome 17 at band q12q21 were induced to proliferate strongly by the G-CSF. However, contrary to the long-term proliferative effect observed with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), G-CSF activity can be characterized by its capability to initiate and promote the growth of responding AML cells but not to sustain long-term proliferation. Finally, no terminal differentiation was found, as assessed by morphology, cytochemistry, and cell surface marker analysis. These results indicate that G-CSF may be sufficient to provide a specific signal for induction of a transient proliferation in AML without induction of terminal differentiation. The cells with the highest response are clonal leukemia cells, all bearing a translocation involving the chromosome region 17q12q21 in which the G-CSF gene has been recently located.
Mechanisms of alpha-fetoprotein synthesis in hepatoma cells. Combined electron microscopic immunocytochemistry and autoradiography.	Immunoreaction of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was detected not only in well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma but also in hepatocytes forming foci in livers with hyperplastic nodules during 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene hepatocarcinogenesis. The subcellular location of AFP in hepatoma cells was in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, perinuclear space and well-developed Golgi apparatus around the nucleus. In livers with hyperplastic nodules it was also in some parts of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi regions in hepatocytes in the vicinity of submembranous areas or bile canaliculi. These findings suggest that the Golgi apparatus in hepatoma cells acts mainly as an organelle for glycosylation of AFP and that the Golgi complexes in the hepatocytes in livers with hyperplastic nodules are organelles for secretion of AFP. Combined light microscopic immunoperoxidase study and autoradiography with 3H-thymidine revealed a higher cumulative labeling index in AFP-positive hepatoma cells than in non-tumorous areas. Combined electron microscopic immunoperoxidase study and autoradiography showed that hepatoma cells with AFP immunoreactivity only in the rough endoplasmic reticulum had a significantly higher labeling index than did cells with AFP immunoreactivity in both rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. These findings suggest that AFP is synthesized in hepatoma cells before or during the stage of their DNA synthesis and is then transported to the Golgi apparatus.
Procainamide hydroxylamine lymphocyte toxicity--I. Evidence for participation by hemoglobin.	A number of lines of evidence suggest that the lupus-like symptoms associated with procainamide therapy may be caused by products of metabolic N-oxidation. In the present study, the perfusion of the isolated rat liver with a hemoglobin-free solution containing procainamide (100 microM) resulted in the rapid appearance of the N-oxidation metabolite procainamide hydroxylamine in the perfusate. Addition of procainamide hydroxylamine in vitro to whole rat blood (1-40 microM) resulted in a concentration-dependent loss of proliferative response among mononuclear cells isolated from the treated blood and cultured with mitogens (phytohemagglutinin, PHA-P: concanavalin A, Con A; and pokeweed mitogen, PWM), as well as a loss of viability. Similar effects on lymphocyte mitogen responsiveness were observed when procainamide hydroxylamine (1-40 microM) was added to rat whole splenic cell populations. Carbon monoxide or ascorbic acid pretreatment inhibited the toxicity of procainamide hydroxylamine to lymphocytes in whole blood, but only carbon monoxide pretreatment inhibited procainamide hydroxylamine-induced methemoglobin formation. These observations are consistent with the participation of hemoglobin in a redox cycle with procainamide hydroxylamine, generating products which are primarily responsible for its cytotoxicity in blood.
Dipyridamole potentiates the growth-inhibitory action of methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil in human keratinocytes in vitro.	Human keratinocytes transport extracellular thymidine across the plasma membrane and incorporate it into DNA. Data presented here show that dipyridamole, a well-known inhibitor of facilitated diffusion of nucleosides, blocks the transport of thymidine into human keratinocytes in vitro. Dipyridamole (1.0 microM) inhibited the transport of 3H-thymidine (0.2 microM) into intracellular material by 75% and its subsequent salvage and incorporation into DNA by 48%. Dipyridamole (1 microM) did not affect the growth of keratinocytes in vitro but did potentiate the growth inhibition caused by methotrexate (MTX) or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The growth of keratinocytes exposed to 0.1 microM MTX for 8 d was inhibited by 32%. However, in combination with a noninhibitory concentration of dipyridamole (1 microM), this concentration of MTX (0.01 microM) inhibited the growth of keratinocytes by 93%. Thymidine in culture medium reversed the cytotoxicity of MTX. However, in the presence of dipyridamole, thymidine in the culture medium did not reverse the action of MTX. The synergistic interaction between MTX and dipyridamole was also observed with 5-FU and dipyridamole. 5-FU (0.5 microM) inhibited cell growth by 30% but in combination with dipyridamole (1 microM), inhibited cell growth by 86%. These data are consistent with the theory that inhibiting thymidine salvage by blocking transport of extracellular thymidine potentiates the growth inhibitory action of inhibitors of de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis in human keratinocytes. Combination chemotherapy, such as methotrexate plus dipyridamole, might be efficacious in the treatment of hyperproliferative diseases of the epidermis.
The effects of prostaglandin E2 on DNA and collagen synthesis in osteoblasts in vitro.	The effects of prostaglandin E2(PGE2) on DNA and collagen synthesis in two separate cell populations were investigated. In view of their morphology, ALPase activity, DNA and collagen synthesis, and response to PGE2, one population was in an undifferentiated state consisting of preosteoblast-like (PL) cells and the other was in a differentiated state consisting predominantly of osteoblast-like (OB) cells. As parameters of bone-forming activity, the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA and the incorporation of 3H-proline into collagenase digestible protein were measured to assess DNA and collagen synthesis. The cells were treated with PGE2 in the presence of indomethacin (IM) to avoid the influence of endogenous prostaglandins. At 24 hours, IM stimulated the DNA synthesis in both cell populations. Furthermore, a greater stimulation was found in the PL cells than in the OB cells. On the other hand, exogenously supplemented PGE2 reversed the IM-induced stimulation of DNA synthesis. In contrast, high concentrations of PGE2 alone increased the DNA synthesis. With respect to collagen synthesis, IM showed an inhibitory effect, especially in the PL cells. This inhibitory effect was also reversed by the addition of PGE2. In addition to the stimulation of collagen synthesis, PGE2 enhanced the proportion of protein synthesized as collagen. In the PL cells, the percentage of collagen synthesis was markedly decreased when cultured with IM for 48 hours. These results suggested that the effects of IM were mediated in part via its ability to reduce biosynthesis of prostaglandins, and that PGE2 is a multifunctional autocrine regulator of bone formation.
Cyclosporin A inhibits prostaglandin E2 formation by rat mesangial cells in culture.	A reversible reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a frequent side effect in patients treated with the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CsA). The pathophysiology of acute CsA nephrotoxicity, however, is unclear. Since eicosanoids are local mediators of glomerular hemodynamics, they might be involved in CsA induced changes in GFR. We therefore studied the effect of CsA on prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production by rat mesangial cells in culture. PGE2 production by mesangial cells following stimulation with angiotensin II (AII) (10(-6) M) or the Ca2+-ionophore A23187 (1 microgram/ml) was significantly inhibited when cells were grown for 24 hours in media which contained CsA (800 to 3200 ng/ml). CsA did not affect viability of mesangial cells as determined by 51Cr release or by cell proliferation measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation. CsA (3200 ng/ml) did not inhibit PGE2 formation by rat MC microsomes incubated with arachidonic acid. However, CsA, in a dose dependent manner, inhibited A23187 and angiotensin II induced release of 3H-labelled arachidonic acid from rat mesangial cells. These data demonstrate that CsA reduces PGE2 formation by rat mesangial cells in culture, probably by inhibiting the release of substrate arachidonic acid from cell membranes rather than by inhibition of cyclooxygenase. This effect may contribute to the reduction in GFR which accompanies CsA therapy.
Ornithine decarboxylase and diamine oxidase in human colon carcinoma cell line CaCo-2 in culture.	The human colon carcinoma cell line CaCo-2, grown in vitro under standard culture conditions and in the absence of differentiation inducers, spontaneously exhibits structural and functional characteristics of mature small bowel enterocytes. Differentiation is complete at late confluency. High activities of ornithine decarboxylase and diamine oxidase are present in enterocytes. Although these enzymes are involved in polyamine metabolism and therefore in cell replication, their function in small bowel epithelium remains to be defined. In this study ornithine decarboxylase and diamine oxidase activities were assessed in CaCo-2 cells at different stages of proliferation and differentiation. Diamine oxidase was also assayed in spent culture media to assess its spontaneous release by CaCo-2 cells. The trigger effect of medium replacement on ornithine decarboxylase activity was also investigated. Cell growth and cell cycle kinetics were determined by hemocytometric cell count and [3H]thymidine labeling index. Sucrase activity was assayed to evaluate brush-border functional maturation. Elevated ornithine decarboxylase activity was recorded during the replication phase (highest value 0.3 +/- 0.02 U/mg) characterized by high thymidine labeling index (43%), and was greatly enhanced by medium replacement (2.1 +/- 0.3 U/mg). Diamine oxidase activity was low in both cells and medium during the active phase of cell growth, and during the differentiation period it progressively increased (highest value 499 +/- 78 U/mg) along with sucrase activity. The high diamine oxidase activity recorded in the medium (highest value 1292 +/- 310 U/ml) and the evidence of diamine oxidase secretion through the basolateral membrane of the cells cultured on porous filters support the hypothesis of an extracellular role of intestinal diamine oxidase. The CaCo-2 cell line, which shows several analogies with small bowel enterocytes, can be proposed as an interesting in vitro model for studying many aspects of cell replication and differentiation depending on polyamine metabolism.
Isoproterenol-induced myocardial fibrosis in relation to myocyte necrosis.	Treatment of rats with the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol results in cardiac hypertrophy, myocyte necrosis, and interstitial cell fibrosis. Our objectives in this study have been to examine whether hypertrophy and fibrosis occur in a compensatory and reparative response to myocyte loss or whether either process may be occurring independently of myocyte loss and thus be a reactive response to adrenergic hormone stimulation. We have examined this question by evaluating each of these responses in rats treated with different doses and forms of isoproterenol administration. Myocyte necrosis was evaluated using in vivo labeling with monoclonal antimyosin for identification of myocytes with permeable sarcolemma, which was indicative of irreversible injury. Myocardial fibrosis was evaluated by morphometric point counting of Gomori-stained tissue sections and by assessment of the stimulation of fibroblast proliferation by determination of increased levels of DNA synthesis. Stimulation of fibroblast DNA synthesis was determined from DNA specific radioactivities and radioautography after pulse labeling with [3H]thymidine. The evidence provided by this study suggests that the degree and timing of myocardial hypertrophy does not follow the course of myocyte loss and, thus, appears to be either a response to altered cardiac loading or a reactive response to beta-adrenergic hormone stimulation rather than a compensation for myocyte loss. Myocardial fibrosis, on the other hand, appears to be more closely related to myocyte necrosis with respect to collagen accumulation in the same areas of the heart, its dose-response relation to the amount of isoproterenol administered, and the timing of increased DNA synthesis, or fibroblast proliferation, after myocyte loss.
Effects of irradiation on the release of growth factors from cultured bovine, porcine, and human endothelial cells.	The effects of radiation on the release of mitogenic factors into the media of cultured endothelial cells of bovine, porcine, and human origins were studied. Although unirradiated controls revealed a significant background activity, single doses of irradiation (20-60 Gy) resulted in a dose-related increased release of growth factor activity, measured by the mitogenic effects of the conditioned media on both 3T3 mouse fibroblasts and unirradiated endothelial cells serving as target cells. Receptor binding competition assays for the platelet-derived growth factor receptor revealed that 12-28% of the total mitogenic activity was due to platelet-derived growth factor-like mitogens. Mitogenic assays using endothelial cells and specific antibody mediated inhibition assays suggested that another component of the mitogenic activity was due to a fibroblast growth factor-like factor. Although radiation resulted in a significant increase in cell death, the enhanced growth factor activities did not appear to result from cell lysis-related leakage of intracellular stores of growth factor. Instead, our data suggest that the growth factors were synthesized de novo and secreted at elevated levels by the cells which maintained postradiation a high level of metabolic activity. Time course studies demonstrated that the growth factors accumulation in the conditioned media started within the first 24 h after radiation and reached a plateau within 72 h after treatment. Radiation-induced release of endothelial cell-derived growth factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of both early vascular damage and the late fibrosis which represents a prominent feature of late radiation damage in normal tissues.
Role of cyclic AMP in proliferation of lung tissue in organ culture.	The role of cyclic AMP in cell proliferation and division has been the subject of study by a number of investigators in the past 30 years, but the argument of whether cyclic AMP is a negative or a positive regulator has not been settled. We studied the effect of cyclic AMP on proliferation of normal and postpneumonectomized lung tissues in young adult rats by measuring the incorporation of tritiated thymidine into lung DNA in organ culture. In normal lung tissues the incorporation of [3H]thymidine was increased by exogenous dibutyryl cyclic AMP, or by isoproterenol or forskolin to stimulate adenylate cyclase, or by caffeine, which inhibits cAMP phosphodiesterase. The effect of isoproterenol, but not forskolin, was abolished by the beta-adrenergic blocking agent propranolol. The effect of caffeine on [3H]thymidine incorporation was further enhanced in normal lung tissues in the presence of dibutyryl cyclic AMP and in postpneumonectomized lung tissues. Imidazole, a cAMP phosphodiesterase stimulator, also increased [3H]thymidine incorporation in culture, but the effect was not magnified in the presence of exogenous dibutyryl cyclic AMP, nor in postpneumonectomized lung tissues. The data suggest that cyclic AMP acts as a positive regulator in proliferation of lung tissues.
The effects of bestatin, a microbial aminopeptidase inhibitor, on epidermal growth factor-induced DNA synthesis and cell division in primary cultured hepatocytes of rats.	We investigated the effects of microbial protease inhibitors, in particular the aminopeptidase inhibitor bestatin, on DNA synthesis and cell division induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) in hepatocytes. Although bestatin did not significantly affect binding of EGF to hepatocytes, it inhibited EGF-induced DNA synthesis and cell division. DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes was maximal 24-26 h after EGF addition to the medium. The time required for maximal DNA synthesis was not affected if bestatin was removed less than 12 h after addition, but synthesis was partially inhibited if bestatin was added to the medium several hours after EGF addition, depending on the time of bestatin addition. Our results suggest that bestatin arrests the new cell cycle induced by EGF at about 12 h after the initiation. Considering also our results obtained by employing other protease inhibitors, we concluded that specific proteases play important roles in hepatocyte DNA synthesis and cell division induced by EGF.
Micromolar aluminum levels reduce 3H-thymidine incorporation by cell line UMR 106-01.	Aluminum-induced osteomalacia is a frequent complication observed in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. However, it is not known whether there are direct effects of aluminum on osteoblasts, or alternatively, whether the observed changes are due to changes in PTH or other factors. We sought to determine the effect of micromolar levels of aluminum on osteoblasts using a well-defined cell line derived from a 32P induced osteosarcoma of rat, UMR 106-01, which is alkaline-phosphatase positive, responds to PTH, and synthesizes type I collagen. Aluminum exposure was controlled using tissue culture media with [Al ] less than 1 microgram/liter (40 nM), produced by precipitation of aluminum salts at pH 8.5. The effect of defined [Al ], from 20 to 800 micrograms/liter (0.7 to 30 microM), was then determined by adding back aluminum while measuring DNA and protein synthesis. We found that aluminum depressed DNA synthesis, as determined by 3H-thymidine incorporation, by 60%, with half maximal effect at 20 micrograms/liter (740 nM) in cells at a density of 20,000/cm2. Alternatively, protein synthesis, as determined by 3H-leucine incorporation, did not decline, and in some cases increased. However, qualitative analysis of matrix proteins produced with and without 800 micrograms/liter (30 mM) [Al ] showed no differences. Direct measurements of cell number and protein synthesis confirmed these findings. Al does not alter the PTH-induced cAMP response of these cells. Thus, aluminum has a direct effect on cell division, and probably on protein synthesis, in this osteoblast-like cell line. These effects occur at levels of aluminum below those commonly contaminating tissue culture media, and thus are seen reproducibly only in media of defined [Al ].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Properties of the immunosuppressive factor induced by murine cytomegalovirus.	Murine cytomegalovirus infection of spleen cultures induced the production of a small (less than 10,000 molecular weight) immunosuppressive factor (VISF), which suppressed concanavalin-A mitogenesis in fresh mouse spleen cells, and in fresh human peripheral blood leukocytes. The factor did not affect the growth of two murine T-cell lines or of mouse fibroblasts. A similar factor was also found in the serum of infected mice, at the time of maximum immune suppression. The properties of VISF indicate that the mechanism of MCMV immune suppression is different from that caused by several other viruses which are important in human and veterinary medicine.
Mechanisms of pancreatic beta-cell growth and regeneration: studies on rat insulinoma cells.	Information about the mechanism of beta-cell growth and regeneration may be obtained by studies of insulinoma cells. In the present study the growth and function of the rat insulinoma cell lines RINm5F and 5AH were evaluated by addition of serum, hormones, and growth factors. It was found that transferrin is the only obligatory factor whereas growth hormone, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and TRH had modulating effects. A heat-labile heparin binding serum factor which stimulated thymidine incorporation but not cell proliferation was demonstrated in human serum. Measurements of insulin mRNA content showed that the insulinoma cells only contained about 2% of that of normal rat beta-cells. These results are discussed in relation to the role of growth factors, oncogenes, and differentiation in the growth and regeneration of beta-cells.
Scheduled and unscheduled DNA synthesis in chick embryo liver following X-irradiation and treatment with DNA repair inhibitors in vivo.	Three hours following X-irradiation of chick embryos with doses of 4 and 8 Gy the in vitro incorporation of tritiated thymidine [( 3H]dT) into DNA (scheduled DNA synthesis, ss) of hepatocytes was reduced to about one-third. Within 24 h after the exposure, ss returned to control values. The return of ss to a normal rate could be strongly inhibited by 2',3'-dideoxythymidine (ddT), and to a lesser extent by 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (araC). In strong contrast to ss, the hydroxyurea (hu)-resistant [3H]dT incorporation (unscheduled DNA synthesis, us) showed a highly significant increase 24 h after treatment of the embryos with araC and/or X-irradiation. Autoradiographic studies revealed no change of total [3H]dT labelling frequency in the whole chick embryo liver 24 h after treatment with araC and/or X-irradiation, but a persistent depression of ss and a simultaneous increase of us. The histological discrimination between affected and non-affected areas argue for a stimulation of DNA synthesis as an antecedent of subsequent mitosis and reparative proliferation adjacent to cell necrosis. It is suggested that the fast recovery of ss in the 12-15-day-old chick embryo is due to an efficient DNA repair system for which DNA polymerase beta is important. The increase of hu-resistance may be an expression of an aberrant DNA synthesis.
Fetal hypophysectomy causes a decrease in preadipocyte growth and insulin like growth factor-1 in pigs.	Fetal pigs in one uterine horn of each of five gilts were hypophysectomized (HX) in utero by electrical cauterization at 72-74 days of gestation and sera collected at 110 days of gestation. Sera from HX fetuses had lower levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 compared to control littermates (P less than .05). Sera were tested for their effects on primary cultures of stromal-vascular cells from adipose tissue. The soluble protein concentration/dish was lower when pig cells were cultured in sera from HX fetuses compared to sera from control fetuses (P less than .01). Sera from HX fetuses inadequately supported growth of stromal-vascular cells so subsequent experiments utilized pooled sera from normal and HX adult pigs. Sera from HX and control fetuses were mixed with sera from the two adult pools and tested for incorporation of tritiated thymidine into rat preadipocytes and the appearance of adipocytes (determined histochemically) in pig stromal-vascular cultures. In cultures fed sera from HX fetuses there was a lower (P less than .05) number of pig fat cells/culture and a lower level (P less than .06) of preadipocyte proliferation in rat cell cultures when compared to control fetal sera. Fetal pig serum contains factors (adipogenic) which promote the proliferation and differentiation of adipocytes in culture. Serum from HX fetuses has a lower level of adipogenic factors.
3H-thymidine incorporation into islets obtained from prediabetic BB rats.	DNA synthesis, measured as 3H-thymidine incorporation, was estimated in islets obtained from BB rats before the onset of diabetes and compared with the replication rate of islets obtained from age-matched BB rats having never developed hyperglycaemia. Using a biopsy procedure, splenic pancreas was removed from both 65 and from 80 day old diabetes prone BB rats. After isolation by a modified collagenase method pancreatic islets were incubated with labeled thymidine. The animals submitted to biopsy were followed up until they reached an age of 200 days. The diabetes incidence of the BB rats biopsied at day 65 and at day 80 was comparable (35% and 31%). In both groups approximately 140 mg of splenic pancreas were necessary to isolate 70-90 islets, regardless whether the animals become diabetic or not. Using a retrospective experimental design, the thymidine incorporation into islets obtained from prediabetic (rats which developed hyperglycaemia) and from normoglycaemic BB rats were comparatively analysed. The DNA synthesis of pancreatic islets obtained from 65 day old prediabetic BB rats is not different from that measured in islets from normoglycaemic BB rats. A similar replicatory behaviour was also observed using islets from prediabetic and normoglycaemic 80 day old BB rats. From our results we seek to conclude that a prediabetic state is not related to a diminished replicatory activity of pancreatic islets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Autocrine tumor cell growth-inhibiting activities from human malignant melanoma.	Autocrine-secreted tumor cell growth-inhibiting activities were isolated from supernatants of a malignant melanoma cell line, HTZ 19-dM, established from a central nervous system melanoma metastasis. HTZ 19-dM was characterized by cyto- and immunocytochemistry and karyotyping; cells were propagated in defined serum-free tissue culture medium for up to 8 months. Supernatants were ultrafiltrated, dialyzed, lyophilized, and purified by Bio-Gel P-10 gel permeation chromatography, leading to three active fraction pools, MIAI [melanoma-inhibiting activity (MIA), 2 kDa), MIAII (Mr 11,500-17,000) and MIAIII (proteins at the cutoff of Bio-Gel P-10) inhibiting growth of 19-dM cells with 50% inhibitory concentrations of 0.79 microgram/ml (MIAI), 0.13 microgram/ml (MIAII), and 16.7 micrograms/ml (MIAII). MIAII could be further purified by reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography; the main activity displayed a 50% inhibitory concentration of 0.33 microgram/ml. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis one major band (molecular weight about 14,000) and two minor bands (up to Mr 17,000) were identified. Macromolecular synthesis was inhibited in 19-dM cells up to greater than 99.5%; tumor stem cell colony formation was reduced by 99.89%; the inhibitory effect of MIAII was irreversible, nonsaturable, and partially antagonized by a serum factor (depending on purification stage). MIAII was heat stable (3 min at 100 degrees C) and trypsin labile. The effect of MIAII on allogeneic neuroectodermal tumors was also investigated; proliferation of two of three malignant melanomas and two of four glioblastomas was inhibited up to 85.2%; proliferation of a neuroblastoma cell line could be inhibited to 33.8%, whereas normal fibroblasts and low grade gliomas were not influenced in their proliferation.
Growth-promoting effects of acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor on rabbit articular chondrocytes aging in culture.	Rabbit articular chondrocytes have a limited growth potential in vitro. After four passages in culture, chondrocytes have accomplished more than 50% of their life span. At this stage of culture, they are considered to be senescent-like, since a dramatic decrease in proliferative capacity and enhanced cell size and protein content are observed. These aged cells are, however, still able to respond to fibroblast growth factor (FGF). The addition of either acidic or basic FGF (10 ng/ml) to culture medium permitted an enhanced proliferation. The attenuation of FGF mitogenic activity during aging was not observed for both fractions. Moreover, when treated with acidic or basic FGF, aged chondrocytes had a smaller size and a lower protein content. The acidic FGF was less potent than the basic FGF in delaying the evolution of aged chondrocytes to senescence.
The lack of correlation between the rate of rRNA transport from nucleoli into cytoplasm and the duration of G1 and G2 phases in root meristem cells.	In root meristems of 3 species (Secale cereale L., Vicia faba L. subsp. minor, Allium cepa L.) the durations of cell cycles and their phases were calculated using 3H-thymidine labelling. In the above species and in Helianthus annuus L. (parameters of the cell cycle determined earlier) the G1 and G2 phase durations were different: G1 + 1/2 M from 3 h to 6.1 h, G2 + 1/2 M from 1.1. h to 8.3 h, depending on the species. The rate of rRNA transport from nucleoli into cytoplasm during recovery after cold treatment was calculated from our data presented earlier. The results indicate that in 4 species studied there is no correlation (at P = 0.05) between the rate of rRNA transport and the duration of G1 and G2 phases.
Transfer of monoclonal antibodies into mammalian cells by electroporation.	A simple rapid and reproducible procedure for transferring monoclonal antibodies into mammalian cells by electroporation is described. Two functionally different monoclonal antibodies (Mab 3F3 and Mab 2B4) specific for asparagine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.1) were used for electroporation into HeLa, HT-5, and L5178Y D10/R (L-asparaginase-resistant) cells. The conditions were optimized so that the viability of the electroporated cells was very high (80-90%), and 90% of the viable cells had antibody incorporated. Electropermeabilized cells were structurally intact, and the high voltage electric pulse had no inhibitory effect on overall cellular DNA and protein synthesis. Incorporated immunoglobulins showed unaltered structural integrity and were functionally active. L5178Y D10/R cells incorporated with an antibody (Mab 3F3) known to be a potent inhibitor of tumor asparagine synthetase showed increased dependence on an exogenous source of asparagine in the culture medium, while the growth of cells incorporated with a control (noninhibitory) antibody (Mab 2B4) remained unaffected. These studies demonstrate that electroporation can be employed successfully for large scale transfer of antibodies into cultured mammalian cells for the study of cellular metabolism.
Differential estrogenic responsiveness of MCF-7 cells. Relationship to the presence of two different estrogen receptors.	Estradiol stimulation of thymidine incorporation and progesterone receptor synthesis is at a maximum in exponentially growing cells. These activities are found to disappear in confluent MCF-7 cells. Since no significant differences in the binding of estradiol to its receptor site (Kd = 10(-10) M, Bmax = 150 fm/mg protein) are observed in these two conditions, receptor structure was analyzed in both cell populations. Various methods demonstrated that receptor size is related to the state of confluence. The hydrodynamic properties of estradiol receptors complexed with 3H-estradiol from cells in the two different growth phases are similar in low ionic strength but different in high ionic strength media. Moreover, when the cell extracts are analyzed in denaturing conditions, cells which are sensitive to estradiol are found to contain a monomeric binding entity of 62 kD, whereas the unresponsive cells have a 47 kD binding entity.
Stimulation of rat liver growth by a 1,3-dithiole derivative, KZ-1026.	The oral administration of 2-(1,3-dithiol-2-ylidene)-1-phenyl-1,3-butanedione (KZ-1026) to normal rats at doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg/day for 3 days accelerated liver enlargement in association with a dose-dependent increase in the total amounts of protein, RNA and DNA in the liver. The liver weight at 24 hr after the third dose of 200 mg/kg reached 174% of the control. With respect to the effect on liver enlargement, KZ-1026 differed from phenobarbital, since KZ-1026, unlike phenobarbital, increased hepatic DNA content without significant effects on P-450 and aminopyrine-N-demethylase. Incorporation of [3H]thymidine into liver DNA was stimulated by a single dose of KZ-1026 (200 mg/kg), and it peaked at 24 hr post dose (18 times the control), followed by an increase in the number of liver nuclei. Liver growth was also accompanied by an increasing hepatic reserve cell mass, expressed by the capacity of eliminating exogenous galactose from the blood stream. Pretreatment with KZ-1026 (200 mg/kg/day) for 3 days significantly improved the survival rate of subtotally hepatectomized rats from 39% to 78%. These findings indicate that KZ-1026 accelerates hepatocyte proliferation, resulting in an enhancement of liver functional mass in normal rats.
Interactions of low density lipoprotein with rat mesangial cells.	Hyperlipidemia may contribute to the pathogenesis of glomerular sclerosis. We therefore studied binding and uptake of low density lipoprotein (LDL) by cultured rat mesangial cells. In addition effects of LDL on PGE2 synthesis and cell proliferation were determined. At 4 degrees C mesangial cells bound [125I] LDL in a time- and concentration-dependent manner with half-maximal binding observed at 5 micrograms/ml of LDL protein. Binding was blocked by excess unlabeled LDL and by heparin. Uptake (binding plus internalization) of LDL at 37 degrees C markedly exceeded binding at 4 degrees C, continued to increase even with longer periods of incubation, and showed no saturability, consistent with uptake of LDL by mesangial cells. Further evidence for LDL uptake by mesangial cells was obtained by use of the fluorescent probe 1,1'-dioactadecyl-3,3,3', 3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate-labeled LDL (Dil-LDL). Incubation of mesangial cells with Dil-LDL at 37 degrees C showed positive fluorescence for all mesangial cells, indicating uptake of the Dil-LDL. LDL had a biphasic effect on mesangial cell proliferation as determined by [3H] thymidine incorporation. LDL at 10 micrograms/ml enhanced [3H] thymidine uptake modestly, but significantly, whereas a progressive and marked inhibition occurred at LDL concentration from 100 to 500 micrograms/ml. While LDL at 10 and 100 micrograms/ml significantly stimulated PGE2 production, inhibition of PGE2 by meclofenamate did not influence the effects of LDL on [3H] thymidine incorporation. We conclude that mesangial cells show specific binding and uptake of LDL and that high concentrations of LDL markedly decrease mesangial cell proliferation. These findings may pertain to the pathogenesis of glomerular lesions in hyperlipidemia of renal disease.
Synthesis and biological evaluation of some phosphate triester derivatives of the anti-viral drug AraA.	A number of novel phosphate triester derivatives of the anti-viral nucleoside analogue araA have been prepared by a rapid 2-step procedure, not necessitating prior sugar protection. Spectroscopic and lipophilicity data have been collected on these compounds, and they have been assayed with a range of hydrolytic enzymes. The compounds have been found to be highly resistant to hydrolysis at physiological pH, enzymatic or otherwise. An in vitro assay indicated inhibition of DNA synthesis by mammalian cells, by each of these compounds, in the range 3-300 microM. Moreover, the degree of inhibition showed a close correlation to chemical structure; in particular, there was a direct relationship between inhibition of thymidine incorporation and lipophilicity. These results suggest cellular penetration by the phosphate triesters and intracellular hydrolysis, by an unspecified mechanism, to the free nucleotide or nucleoside.
K+/H+-antiporter nigericin arrests DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells.	Acidification of the cytoplasm of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells to pH 6.3 arrests DNA synthesis in these cells. Such an effect can be achieved by incubating the cells at pH 6.2 or by adding low concentrations of the K+/H+ antiporter, the antibiotic nigericin, at neutral pH. Glucose and anaerobiosis potentiate the nigericin effect. The inhibition of DNA synthesis by nigericin occurs without any significant decrease in the ATP concentration and in the mitochondrial membrane potential. The DNA synthesis inhibition is caused neither by a decrease in the intracellular [K+] nor by an increase in the intracellular [Na+] accompanying the nigericin effect (at least at low concentrations of the antibiotic). Nigericin should thus be regarded as a type of a cytostatic primarily affecting intracellular pH.
The development of ciliated and mucus cells from basal cells in hamster tracheal epithelial cell cultures.	Hamster tracheal epithelia consist of three cell types: ciliated, mucus and basal cells. Autoradiographic data from several studies suggest that either basal or non-ciliated columnar cells may serve as stem cells for regeneration of lost or damaged ciliated and mucus cells. The objective of the present study was to examine the role of basal cells in the formation of ciliated and mucus cells in hamster tracheal epithelial (HTE) cell cultures via tritiated thymidine ([3H]-TdR) autoradiography. When 3 day cultures were pulsed with [3H]-TdR for 6 hr and incubated for 2 additional days in non-radioactive media (5 day total) label was present in the nuclei of basal and columnar epithelial cells suggesting that the labeled columnar cells may be derived from basal cells. However, the morphological reorganization occurring during this 2 day interval may create difficulties in this interpretation. Since these morphological changes are minimal during the 6 day to 8 day in vitro period, 6 day HTE cultures were pulsed with [3H]-TdR for 6 hr and incubated for 2 additional days in non-radioactive media (8 day total), and examined to further study the fate of labeled basal cells during this period. Analysis of these 8 day cultures revealed that labeled nuclei were present in both basal cells and adjacent ciliated and mucus cells. These results do not exclude the possibility of non-basal cell origin of ciliated and mucus cells in other systems but suggest that, at least in HTE cultures, undifferentiated basal cells have the ability to develop into ciliated and mucus cells.
Heparin and its antagonist--a quaternary ammonium salt of oligomer-25-conidine: distribution in subcellular organelles, effect on DNA synthesis in the regenerating rat liver]	Dynamics of distribution in subcellular organelles as well as effects on DNA synthesis of heparin, polycanidine (ChAS oligomer of 25 canidine) and their complexes were studied in regenerating rat liver tissue after partial hepatectomy. Polycanidine and heparin penetrated from circulation into hepatocyte cells, nuclei and mitochondria. After consecutive administration of polyelectrolytes polycanidine increased 2-2.5-fold the amount of heparin entering into cells. Polycanidine formed stable complexes with DNP in nuclei. Heparin and its complexes with polycanidine decreased the DNA synthesis within first day. Heparin appears to be responsible for the inhibitory effect, whereas administration of polycanidine only into animals caused a slight increase in 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA as compared with controls.
Topographical analysis of proliferation ([3H]thymidine labelling index and mitotic index) as compared with tumour growth and tumour weight in xenotransplanted melanoma. Changes due to local and systemic application of azelaic acid.	Xenotransplanted human melanoma was investigated by measuring the increase in tumour volume and in final tumour weight (macroscopical parameters) and histomorphological parameters of cell proliferation: Mitotic index (MI) and autoradiographic [3H]thymidine labelling index (LI). A total of 87 tumours, derived from a human melanoma metastasis and a primary nodular melanoma respectively, were analysed by these methods in two series. Topical treatment of the tumours with azelaic acid cream resulted in a statistically significant reduction in the increase in tumour volume and, in the first series, in a clear decrease in final tumour weight and in the MI, as compared with controls. The LI was decreased only in the superficial region of the tumours, i.e. at the site of treatment. Subtumoral injection of azelaic acid (disodium salt solution) was the second route of local therapy. It was followed by a significant reduction in the increase in tumour volume, of final tumour weight (first series) and in the MI. The average LI was clearly smaller than in the controls, especially at the tumour base, which was the site of injection (local effect). Systemic (intravenous) injection of azelaic acid (same concentration of the disodium salt solution) had no negative effect on the increase in tumour volume or final tumour weight, but was followed by a clear reduction of the MI. The average LI of this group was significantly smaller than in the controls as well. This effect was most impressive in the perivascular regions of large and small vessels, which fact can be interpreted as a sort of local effect via the blood stream after systemic application of azelaic acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Autoradiographic investigations on cell shape-mediated growth regulation of lens epithelial cells in culture.	An autoradiographic method is described which is well suited for the determination of the labelling index in flattened as well as rounded cells. Using this method DNA synthesis of lens epithelial cells in culture was found to be dependent on cell attachment, cell flattening and intact microfilaments. Thus previous results on cell shape mediated growth regulation could be confirmed. Moreover, considering the labelling index it was possible to conclude that cell rounding or a disintegration of microfilaments did not impair ongoing DNA synthesis but did prevent cells from entering the S-phase of the cycle.
Deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate pools in regenerating rat liver: effect of hydroxyurea and exogenous deoxypyrimidines.	Hydroxyurea (HU) causes inhibition of DNA synthesis in regenerating rat liver due to an inhibition of the ribonucleotide reductase. We studied the consequences of a continuous HU infusion for deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) pools in the liver after partial hepatectomy and tried to modify imbalances by application of deoxyribonucleosides in vivo. In normal liver, an intracellular concentration of 0.16, 0.84, 0.33 and 0.27 pmol/micrograms DNA was observed for dATP, dCTP, dGTP and dTTP, respectively. In regenerating liver the dNTP pools show minor changes until 18 h after partial hepatectomy. During and after a continuous HU infusion 14--24 h after partial hepatectomy, the intracellular dNTP pools change considerably. At 19.5 h after partial hepatectomy, 5.5 h after the start of HU infusion, and at 25 h after partial hepatectomy, 1 h after termination of HU infusion, the dTTP pool was more than 10-times, and the dGTP pool about 2-times higher than in controls, while the dATP and dCTP pools remain relatively unchanged. Simultaneous infusion of HU and deoxythymidine (dThd) 14--25 h after partial hepatectomy results in a further increase of the dTTP pool during and after HU infusion. Administration of deoxycytidine (dCyd) leads to a moderate increase of the dCTP pool and a weak decrease of the dTTP pool during HU infusion. The combined application of dCyd and dThd after HU infusion had similar effects on dNTP pools as observed with dThd alone. These results show that intracellular pools of dNTPs in hepatocytes can be altered by exogenous factors in a controlled pattern. This system can be used as a model for studying the implications of induced dNTP pool dysbalances for the initiation of liver carcinogenesis by mutagenic chemicals.
Follicular cells of tonsils metabolise more deoxycytidine than other cell populations.	Nine subpopulations of tonsillar lymphocytes and the unseparated cells were compared in their utilization of exogenous deoxycytidine ([5-3H]CdR) and thymidine ([3H]TdR). Uptake phosphorylation and incorporation of labeled precursors were determined in B and T lymphocytes, in low density (LD; enriched in S phase cells) and in high density (HD; enriched in G0/G1 phase cells) cell fractions as well as in LD and HD subfractions of B and T lymphocytes, and in cells isolated from follicles of tonsils. As expected, LD cells and B lymphocytes were more active in TdR incorporation than HD cells and T lymphocytes. However, the ratio of [5-3H]CdR to [3H]TdR in their total phosphorylation and incorporation into DNA was much lower than the expected value of 1: about 0.5 for total phosphorylation and about 0.3 for incorporation in all subpopulations, except for the follicular cells, where these ratios were 1.0 and 0.7, respectively. These results show that the relative utilization of the two pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside precursors varies among different lymphocyte subpopulations. However, this variation is not due to the different rate of DNA synthesis; rather, it depends on the differentiation stage of lymphocytes occurring in the germinal center of the follicles.
Enhancement of prolactin (PRL)-stimulated mitogenesis of Nb2 rat lymphoma cell cultures by insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I).	IGF-I stimulated the mitogenesis of Nb2 cells in the presence of suboptimal mitogenic concentrations of prolactin (PRL, 0.01 or 0.1 ng/ml). In the presence of 1 ng/ml or 10 ng/ml, concentrations of PRL that produced a maximal or near maximal mitogenic response in Nb2 cells, the addition of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) at 5 or 10 ng/ml did not further enhance mitogenesis. This effect was selective for IGF-I since IGF-II, epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) or platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) did not stimulate mitogenesis in the presence or absence of PRL. That the ability of IGF-I to stimulate mitogenesis of these cells required PRL was suggested by the ability of PRL antiserum to block the IGF-I effect. Monoclonal antibody to IGF-I reduced the mitogenic response to one identical to PRL alone. In the presence of a suboptimal mitogenic concentration of PRL, IGF-I was an equally effective comitogen when added at 0 time or at 6 h after PRL stimulation, suggestive of an effect of IGF-I in late G1 phase of the cell cycle. Effects of IGF-I on ornithine decarboxylase, a G1 enzymatic marker, were compatible with this interpretation. In order to be assured that IGF-I exerted its action through a receptor-mediated process, we evaluated the presence of IGF-I receptors on Nb2 cells. Receptors were present which bound IGF-I greater than IGF-II much greater than insulin. The IC50 was 35 nM for IGF-I, 280 nM for IGF-II and 875 nM for insulin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The specificity of pyrimidine nucleoside transport and metabolism by rat jejunum in vitro.	1. 5-Methyluridine perfused through the lumen of isolated loops of rat jejunum gave rise to serosal thymine as the major species transported across the epithelial layer; no serosal 5-methyluridine was detected. 2. At 0.1 mM-luminal 5-methyluridine there was enhanced transmural transport of thymine (P less than 0.001) when compared with either 0.1 mM-thymine or 0.1 mM-thymidine as the luminal substrate for thymine transport. 3. At low luminal concentrations (0.025 mM) thymine was a significantly better substrate (P less than 0.001) for the transport of the free pyrimidine than either of the two nucleosides (thymidine or 5-methyluridine). 4. Luminal deoxyuridine gave rise to uracil as the major species appearing in the serosal secretion. High luminal concentrations of deoxyuridine (0.5 and 1.0 mM) gave rise to low levels of the nucleoside in the serosal fluid. 5. As a consequence of the specificity of the mucosal phosphorolysis the ribonucleosides are favoured over the deoxyribonucleosides as substrates for transmural pyrimidine transport.
Distinct effects of aminopterin on stimulation of T and B lymphocytes with mitogen.	Aminopterin, a folate antagonist, added to cultures of mouse spleen cells stimulated with T-cell mitogens markedly inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, [3H]thymidine incorporation into the cells. Contrary to this inhibitory effect aminopterin added at the same concentrations to cell cultures stimulated with B-cell mitogens significantly increased [3H]thymidine incorporation. The inhibitory effect of aminopterin on T-cell activation was completely reversed by adding hypoxanthine to the cultures. Analysis of the mechanism of aminopterin action showed direct, mutually opposite, effects of this drug on T- and B-cell populations. The results thus not only demonstrate that polyclonally activated T and B lymphocytes differ in their sensitivity to the toxic action of aminopterin, but simultaneously support early findings suggesting differences in nucleic acid metabolic pathways between T- and B-cell populations.
Interleukin 2 and interleukin 2 inhibitors in human serum and synovial fluid. II. Mitogenic stimulation, interleukin 2 production and interleukin 2 receptor expression in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and Reiter's syndrome.	Peripheral blood and synovial fluid (SF) mononuclear cells from 30 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were hyporesponsive to mitogenic stimulation with plant lectins and CD3 antibodies, due to depressed interleukin 2 (IL-2) production and IL-2 receptor upregulation. In contrast, in the seronegative arthritis patient group only SF mononuclear cells were hyporesponsive to mitogenic stimulation and there were no significant differences in IL-2 production or IL-2 receptor upregulation as compared with control subjects. No significant correlations were observed between IL-2 inhibitor levels and mitogenic responses, IL-2 production and IL-2 receptor upregulation on peripheral blood and SF mononuclear cells but an inverse correlation was noted between SF mitogenic responses and the expression of selected activation markers. We conclude that IL-2 abnormalities appear to be most pronounced in RA compared with other inflammatory arthritides and that these changes do not appear to be directly related to serum or SF IL-2 inhibitor levels.
T cells specific for alpha-beta interface regions of hemoglobin recognize the isolated subunit but not the tetramer and indicate presentation without processing.	Processing of a protein antigen into fragments is believed to be a prerequisite for its presentation by the antigen-presenting cell to the T cell. This model would predict that, in oligomeric proteins, T cells prepared with specificity for regions that are buried within subunit association surfaces should recognize the respective regions in vitro equally well on the isolated subunit or on the oligomer. Three hemoglobin (Hb) alpha-chain synthetic peptides, corresponding to areas that are situated either completely [alpha-(31-45)] or partially [alpha-(41-45) and alpha-(81-95)] within the interface between the alpha and beta subunits of Hb, and a fourth peptide representing a completely exposed area in tetrameric Hb were used as immunogens in SJL/J (H-2s) mice. Peptide-primed T cells were passaged in vitro with the respective peptide to obtain peptide-specific T-lymphocyte lines. T-cell clones were isolated from these lines by limiting dilution. T-cell lines and clones that were specific for buried regions in the subunit association surfaces recognized the free peptide and the isolated subunit but not the Hb tetramer. On the other hand, T cells with specificity against regions that are not involved in subunit interaction and are completely exposed in the tetramer recognized the peptide, the isolated subunit, and the oligomeric protein equally well. The responses of the T-cell lines and clones were major histocompatibility complex-restricted. Since the same x-irradiated antigen-presenting cells were employed, the results could not be attributed to differences or defects in Hb processing. The findings indicate that in vitro the native (unprocessed and undissociated) oligomeric protein was the trigger of major histocompatibility complex-restricted T-cell responses.
Growth rate of human fibroblasts is repressed by the culture within reconstituted collagen matrix but not by the culture on the matrix.	Effect of reconstituted type I collagen gel on in vitro growth of fibroblasts was examined. A prolonged lag period was observed by culture either on the surface of three-dimensional collagen gel ("on-gel") or within the gels ("in-gel") as compared with the culture on plastic dishes. The rate of cell proliferation in logarithmic phase growth was repressed by the culture "in-gel" but not by the culture "on-gel". The differential growth rates between "in-gel" culture and "on-gel" culture should be ascribed to difference in distributions of interacting sites between cell and collagen fibrils. The repression of cell growth was more marked in a contracting collagen gel which contains higher density of collagen fibrils. The cell density in contracted gel per unit cross-section area was found to be much lower than that of confluent monolayer culture. These results suggest that the repression of cell growth by collagen fibrils in the three-dimensional gels is not due to direct cell-cell contact, but due to the distribution and number of contact sites between a cell and collagen fibrils.
Selective effects of two chloromethyl ketones on amino acid and phosphate uptake in rat liver and tumors.	Injection of L-1-tosylamido-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone (TPCK) at a level of 10 mg/100 g body weight inhibited the incorporation of 3H-labeled amino acids into protein in Morris hepatomas 7777and 9618A2. The degree of inhibition was similar in cytoplasmic proteins and in histone and nonhistone nuclear protein fractions. There was no inhibitory effect on 3H-labeled amino acid incorporation in the livers of the tumor-bearing rats. The inhibitory effect of N-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone (TLCK) on incorporation of 3H-labeled amino acids was observed in both the slowly growing hepatoma 7787 and the rapidly growing hepatoma 7777. In hepatoma 7777, TLCK (2.5 mg/100 g body wt) exerted a greater inhibitory effect on incorporation when administered 60 minutes before [3H]leucine injection than when injected simultaneously. Studies on tissue uptake of amino acids, thymidine, and phosphate indicated that inhibitory effects of TPCK and TLCK on active transport may be a major factor in the action of these drugs on macromolecular synthesis. The inhibitory effects of TPCK and TLCK seen in transplanted hepatomas and a colon tumor were not generally seen in normal tissues of the tumor-bearing rats.
Retrovirus-induced feline pure red cell aplasia: the kinetics of erythroid marrow failure.	Cats viremic with feline leukemia virus subgroup C (FeLV-C) develop pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) characterized by the loss of detectable late erythroid progenitors (CFU-E) in marrow culture. Normal numbers of early erythroid progenitors (BFU-E) and granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (CFU-GM) remain, suggesting that the maturation of BFU-E to CFU-E is impaired in vivo. We have examined the cell cycle kinetics of BFU-E and their response to hematopoietic growth factor(s) to better characterize erythropoiesis as anemia develops. Within 3 weeks of FeLV-C infection, yet 6-42 weeks before anemia, the traction of BFU-E in DNA synthesis as determined by tritiated thymidine suicide increased to 43 +/- 4% (normal 23 +/- 2%) while there was no change in the cell cycle kinetics of CFU-GM. In additional studies, we evaluated the response of marrow to the hematopoietic growth factor(s) present in medium conditioned by FeLV-infected feline embryonic fibroblasts (FEA/FeLV CM). With cells from normal cats or cats viremic with FeLV-C but not anemic, a 4-fold increase in erythroid bursts was seen in cultures with 5% FEA/FeLV CM when compared to cultures without CM. However, just prior to the onset of anemia, when the numbers of detectable CFU-E decreased, BFU-E no longer responded to FEA/FeLV CM in vitro. BFU-E from anemic cats also required 10% cat or human serum for optimal in vitro growth. These altered kinetics and in vitro growth characteristics may relate to the in vivo block of BFU-E differentiation and PRCA. Finally, when marrow from cats with PRCA was placed in suspension culture for 2 to 4 days in the presence of cat serum and CM, the numbers of BFU-E increased 2- to 4-fold although no CFU-E were generated. By 4 to 7 days, CFU-E were detected, suggesting that conditions contributing to the block of erythroid maturation did not persist. The suspension culture technique provides an approach to study further the defect in erythroid differentiation characteristic of feline PRCA.
Differential affinities of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues for deoxythymidine and deoxycytidine kinase determine their incorporation into murine leukemia L1210 cells.	A number of 5-substituted pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside (dThd or dCyd) derivatives have been evaluated for their effects on the incorporation of dThd and dCyd into the nucleotide pool and nucleic acids of murine leukemia L1210 cells. Several observations indicate that the dThd kinase and dCyd kinase activity of the cells and the differential affinities of these enzymes for the pyrimidine deoxyribonucleosides determine the incorporation of dThd and dCyd into the cells: (i) dThd and dCyd were not incorporated into mutant L1210 cells deficient in either dThd kinase or dCyd kinase activity; (ii) for a series of 5-substituted dThd and dCyd analogues a strong correlation was found between their inhibitory effects on the incorporation of dThd or dCyd into cell material and their Ki/Km for dThd kinase and dCyd kinase (r = 0.92 and 0.97, respectively); (iii) inhibitors of DNA synthesis (i.e. araC) and RNA synthesis (i.e. actinomycin D) suppressed the incorporation of dThd, most likely due to an inhibitory activity at the dThd kinase level (through the allosteric action of dTTP or slow regeneration of dThd kinase).
Effect of incorporation of 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine into HSV-1 DNA on virion sensitivity to ultraviolet light.	First generation progeny herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) virions grown in the presence of 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (IdUrd) were irradiated with either 254 or 302 nm ultraviolet (u.v.) light. The kinetics of virus inactivation revealed decreased sensitivity of IdUrd-substituted virions to irradiation with 302 nm light under all conditions examined, and with 254 nm u.v. light when substituted and control virions were irradiated at equal particle concentrations. Comparison of virus survival after irradiation measured in Vero or Xeroderma Pigmentosum (complementation group A) cells indicated that cellular repair of ultraviolet-induced lesions was not a significant factor in the observed decrease in u.v. sensitivity. IdUrd substitution altered neither the formation of ultraviolet-induced thymidine photoproducts nor the ability of irradiated virions to express delayed early viral enzymes (thymidine kinase, DNA polymerase). It is suggested that nucleocapsid proteins or the highly ordered structure of IdUrd-substituted virions play a key role in u.v. desensitization, either by the formation of non-lethal photoproducts or by the prevention of the formation of DNA-uracilyl free radicals.
Effects of IGF-I on proliferation and steroidogenesis of cultured adrenal zona glomerulosa cells.	In a primary culture of bovine adrenal zona glomerulosa cells, insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I)/somatomedin C stimulated DNA synthesis, as measured by [3H] thymidine uptake, at concentrations of 10(-9) and 10(-7) M. IGF-I also prevented ACTH-induced suppression of [3H] thymidine uptake. IGF-I in no way affected aldosterone secretion during short-term exposure to cultured cells, however. Our findings suggest that IGF-I plays an important role in the proliferation of adrenal zona glomerulosa cells.
Dinucleotide analogues as inhibitors of thymidine kinase, thymidylate kinase, and ribonucleotide reductase.	P1-(Adenosine-5')-Pn-(thymidine-5') tri-, tetra-, penta-, and hexaphosphates (ApnT) plus the analogues with a methylene group alpha, beta to the thymidine residue (ApncpT) were synthesized by coupling the appropriate two nucleotides, having activated one by morpholine. These were tested as potential dinucleotide inhibitors of thymidine kinase, thymidylate kinase, and ribonucleotide reductase. All three enzymes bind ATP and thymidine or its nucleotides and therefore might be inhibited by dinucleotides containing adenosine and thymidine. Ap5T and Ap6T strongly inhibited all three enzymes (IC50 = 2.4-20 microM). Ap4cpT and Ap5cpT also strongly inhibited the two kinases (IC50 = 4-20 microM) but were much weaker inhibitors of the reductase (IC50 = 130 and 230 microM).
Parathyroid hormone depresses cytosolic pH and DNA synthesis in osteoblast-like cells.	It has recently become apparent that a number of hormones and growth factors modulate cytosolic pH (pHi), and there is some evidence that this in turn may influence cell growth. We have examined the effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) on both these parameters in an osteoblast-like cell line, UMR 106. Preliminary studies, using the pH-sensitive fluorescent probe 2',7'-bis(2-carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein indicated that these cells regulate pHi by means of an amiloride-inhibitable Na+-H+ exchanger. Rat PTH-(1-34) (rPTH) caused a progressive dose-related decrease in pHi with a half-maximal effect at 10(-11) M. At 1 h, the maximal depression of pHi was 0.1 +/- 0.01 U. This effect was reproduced by forskolin, but neither agent influenced pHi in the presence of amiloride. Incorporation of [3H]thymidine was reduced by rPTH (half-maximal dose approximately 10(-11) M), forskolin, and N6,2'-O-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate. The diacylglycerol analogue, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, increased both pHi and [3H]thymidine incorporation, and amiloride reduced both indexes. However, rPTH remained a potent inhibitor of [3H]thymidine incorporation in the presence of amiloride, even though it did not affect pHi in these circumstances. It is concluded that PTH decreases pHi and growth in UMR 106 cells but that these changes can be dissociated. Depression of pHi may have other important effects on bone metabolism, such as reducing cell-cell communication, and may be associated with alkalinization of the bone fluid compartment.
Decreased ribosomal RNA content and in vitro RNA synthesis in purified bone marrow erythroblasts of patients with idiopathic ineffective erythropoiesis and DiGuglielmo disease.	Ribsomal RNA content and in vitro 3H-uridine and 3H-thymidine incorporation with examined in purified marrow erythroblasts of patients with idiopathic ineffective erythropoiesis (IIE) and DiGuglielmo disease (DD) and compared with cells from normal marrows. Whereas 3H-thymidine incorporation rates were normal in all patients, 3H-uridine incorporation was 42%--75% of normal in cells from patients examined. Ribosomal RNA content was measured by spectrophotometric scanning of RNA electrophoresed on polyacrylamide gels and corrections made for contamination of the erythroblast preparations with ribosome bearing reticulocytes. In cells from every patient examined RNA content was decreased to 60--76% of normal. Uridine incorporation and rRNA content of patients with beta thalassemia minor and megaloblastic anemia were normal, suggesting that the defects observed in IIE and DD were not due to ineffective erythropoiesis per se. Since erythroblast ribosomes may be rate limiting in protein synthesis, we postulate that even a minor decrease in ribosome content might engender the ubiquitous abnormalities reported in erythroid cells in both IIE and DD.
Deoxycytidine reverses inhibition of morphogenesis by thymidine in young chick blastoderm.	Exogenous thymidine affects morphogenesis of the early chick blastoderm possibly by depleting the deoxycytidine triphosphate pool. The aim of this study is to determine whether the inhibitory action of thymidine on early chick blastoderm morphogenesis is alleviated by the removal of thymidine and/or treatment with deoxycytidine. Chick blastoderms at the full hypoblast stage develop abnormally in egg albumen containing 1.23 X 10(-3) M thymidine. Development is normal when deoxycytidine is included simultaneously in the culture medium with thymidine at equimolar concentrations. Blastoderms were cultured in egg albumen containing 15 microCi/ml thymidine [methyl-3H] or 10 microCi/ml deoxycytidine [5-3H], and 1.2 X 10(-3) M 2'-deoxycytidine or 1.23 X 10(-3) M thymidine, respectively. The culture was interrupted at timed intervals, and the amount of radioactivity associated with DNA was determined. Exogenous deoxycytidine in the culture medium caused a noticeable increase in the incorporation of 3H-thymidine, while exogenous thymidine markedly inhibited the uptake and incorporation of 3H-deoxycytidine into DNA of blastoderms. Thymidine does not inhibit the expansion of blastoderm, the migration of cells for formation of the primitive streak (PS), and the induction of axial tissues, but it interferes with the organization of these tissues to form the embryonic axis. Blastoderms show slight signs of recovery when thymidine is removed. Deoxycytidine counteracts the action of thymidine and seems to be a rate-limiting factor in normal differentiation of the early chick blastoderm.
Assay for thyroid growth stimulating immunoglobulins: stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into isolated thyroid follicles by TSH, EGF, and immunoglobulins from goitrous patients in an iodine-deficient region.	Estimations were carried out of [3H]thymidine incorporation during culture of isolated porcine thyroid follicles in the presence of standard TSH or epidermal growth factor (EGF) both alone and together with anti-TSH or anti-EGF serum, and of immunoglobulins fractionated from the sera of patients from our endemic goitre area with iodine deficiency. A significant stimulation of thymidine incorporation was exerted by TSH when thyroglobulin was present in the culture medium, and also by EGF. TSH stimulation was abolished by anti-TSH serum, in contrast to the effect of EGF. Anti-EGF serum, on the other hand, blocked the effect of EGF, but not that of TSH. The sera of 20 out of 72 patients (27%) with euthyroid goitre (not operated on) and of ten out of 26 patients (38%) with recurrent euthyroid goitre contained immunoglobulins stimulating thyroid growth (TGI). There was no correlation of TGI with other thyroid antibodies. TGI have to be regarded as a pathogenetic factor of euthyroid goitre also in patients from an endemic region especially in recurrent cases.
Immunodetection and modulation of cellular growth with antibodies against native transforming growth factor-beta 1.	In an attempt to identify and quantitate latent and active forms of transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) without the use of cell cultures and to test for autocrine stimulation by TGF beta, rabbit antibodies were raised against native human and porcine platelet-derived TGF beta. A radioimmunoassay for TGF beta was developed using radioiodinated TGF beta, anti-TGF beta antibodies, and protein A. Inhibition in the radioimmunoassay was achieved with nanogram quantities of TGF beta, comparable to the sensitivity of radioreceptor assays. Analyses of the TGF beta levels of conditioned medium from cultured cells indicated that the latent form(s) of TGF beta is not detectable in the radioimmunoassay established using antibodies raised against native TGF beta. Immunoprecipitation analysis of radiolabeled conditioned medium revealed a specific Mr 25,000 band only after acidification. A Mr 62,000 protein was observed with and without prior acidification of the medium but could not be competed with unlabeled TGF beta in the immunoprecipitation indicating antigenic unrelatedness. The anti-TGF beta IgG inhibited the binding of [125I]TGF beta to the cell surface receptors in a radioreceptor assay. TGF beta inhibition of A549 cell growth was reversed by the antibodies, which also neutralized the growth inhibitory effects of TGF beta on AKR-2B cells in a monolayer [3H]thymidine incorporation assay as demonstrated by prevention of TGF beta inhibition of insulin and epidermal growth factor-stimulated DNA synthesis. The antibodies also effectively inhibited spontaneous soft agar growth of AKR-MCA fibroblasts, providing evidence for autocrine secretion of TGF beta as a mechanism of their anchorage-independent growth.
Inhibitory effect of somatostatin on the basal and TSH-stimulated 3H-thymidine incorporation into rat thyroid lobes incubated in vitro.	The effects of somatostatin on the spontaneous and TSH--stimulated incorporation of tritiated thymidine into the rat thyroid lobes incubated in vitro were investigated. The rate of 3H-thymidine incorporation was used as an index of thyroid follicular cells (TFC) proliferation. It was shown that: 1) somatostatin, at a concentration of 10(-7)M, decreased 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA of TFC, 2) the highest somatostatin concentration, as tested in this study (10(-6)M), produced a similar decreasing effect; the decrease, in this case, did not attain significance vs. controls, 3) somatostatin, when employed together with TSH, suppressed the stimulatory effect of the latter hormone on 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA of thyroid lobes.
Human IFN-gamma production is inhibited by a synthetic peptide homologous to retroviral envelope protein.	A synthetic 17 amino acid peptide (CKS-17) homologous to a highly conserved region of human and animal retroviral transmembrane proteins was investigated for its influence on the in vitro production of IFN-gamma from human peripheral mononuclear cells. The results showed that CKS-17 coupled to a carrier protein, BSA, inhibited production of IFN-gamma in a dose-dependent manner. Controls, consisting of BSA, which had undergone the coupling procedure or neurotensin coupled to BSA in an identical manner as CKS-17, showed no such inhibition. Reduction in IFN-gamma production could not be attributed to decreased viability of cells, delay of IFN-gamma production or to involvement of suppressor cells. Moreover, inhibition of IFN-gamma production was not related to the inhibition of DNA synthesis. The inhibition appeared to be a direct effect of CKS-17 on IFN-gamma-producing cells. Kinetic studies revealed that this suppression occurred when CKS-17 was introduced to the culture concurrent with or within 48 h after introduction of IFN inducers. Preincubation experiments showed that the presence of CKS-17 in the culture medium was not necessary to exert its inhibitory effect. These results suggest that a portion of retroviral envelope proteins possess important immunomodulatory actions.
Spontaneous 3H-thymidine incorporation by circulating lymphocytes of normal subjects: relative proportion of T and B cells.	Peripheral lymphocytes of ten normal, healthy subjects were assayed simultaneously for spontaneous 3H-thymidine flash labelling and erythrocyte, active erythrocyte and erythrocyte antibody complement rosette formation. Spontaneous blastogenesis of T lymphocytes is significantly higher than that of B cells. The majority of T lymphocytes incorporating 3H-thymidine are active E rosette-forming cells.
Glucocorticoid receptors in purified subpopulations of human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	On the premise that the differential effects of glucocorticoids on various aspects of the immune response may be mediated by differences in the glucocorticoid receptors in the effector cells, subpopulations of human peripheral blood lymphocytes were examined for these receptors as well as for glucocorticoid responsiveness. Purified T and non-T lymphocytes, when studied by a sensitive whole cell assay technique, contained equivalent amounts of specific glucocorticoid receptor, which, by binding affinity and specificity measurements, were indistinguishable from each other. Furthermore, under in vitro incubation conditions, macromolecular synthesis in both of these cell populations was inhibited by glucocorticoid at concentrations which saturated the receptor sites. It is concluded that the putative differential effects of glucocorticoids on T and non-T lymphocyte-associated functions are probably not mediated by differences in the glucocorticoid receptors in these cell populations.
Studies on the generation of B lymphocytes in fetal liver and bone marrow.	With the use of immunofluorescence techniques, cells containing cytoplasmic IgM (cIgM+), but lacking detectable surface IgM (sIgM+), have been identified in mouse fetal liver and adult bone marrow as a distinct cell population to sIgM+ B lymphocytes. We have shown that there is a considerable difference in the rate of entry of cIgM+ and sIgM+ cells into DNA synthesis in these locations. Moreover, within the cIgM+ population, the largest cells are the main group entering DNA synthesis. Our results are compatible with the notion that a pool of rapidly proliferating, large cIgM+ cells is present in fetal liver and adult bone marrow and that these cells give rise to populations of smaller cIgM+ cells, which move out of cell cycle, and convert to sIgM+ B lymphocytes. However, we recognize that this interpretation is speculative. Finally, we have shown that fetal bone marrow is a site of generation of sIgM+ B lymphocytes, but the question as to whether these cells are derived from Ig- precursors within marrow itself remains open.
Leukotriene B4 causes proliferation of interleukin 2-dependent T cells in the presence of suboptimal levels of interleukin 2.	We have recently found that endogenous leukotriene B4 (LTB4) production is a necessary component of mitogen-stimulated T-cell proliferation. In this report, we address the relationship between LTB4 and interleukin 2 (IL-2) in stimulating proliferation of IL-2 responsive T cells. We employed an IL-2 responsive T-cell line, HT-2 and also human peripheral blood T cells rendered IL-2 responsive by culture with phytohemagglutinin (PHA). In the presence of concentrations of IL-2 that resulted in suboptimal stimulation of HT-2 cells (5-20% of maximum proliferation), LTB4 at 10(-8) or 10(-10) M produced a several-fold increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation, resulting in levels of [3H]thymidine incorporation that were comparable to those produced by HT-2 cells stimulated with optimal concentrations of IL-2. Similar results were obtained with the peripheral blood T cells. Leukotriene C4, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and arachidonic acid did not share with LTB4 the ability to stimulate proliferation of HT-2 cells. Hydrocortisone and nordihydroguairetic acid (NDGA), drugs which block endogenous LTB4 production in cell cultures inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation of HT-2 cells stimulated by suboptimal but not optimal levels of IL-2. This inhibition could be overcome by the readdition of LTB4 to the cultures. Thus, LTB4 in physiologic concentrations (10(-10) M) can substitute for IL-2 in stimulating proliferation of IL-2 responsive T cells, provided that some IL-2 is present in the culture. Endogenous LTB4 may act synergistically with endogenous IL-2 in promoting T-cell proliferation.
Incorporation of (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine into deoxyribonucleic acids of varicella-zoster virus (TK+ and TK- strains)-infected cells.	The incorporation of (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (IVDU) into DNA of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-infected human embryo fibroblasts was studied, using thymidine kinase-positive (TK+) and thymidine kinase-negative (TK-) VZV strains. [125I]IVDU was taken up by cells infected with TK+ VZV-, but not by TK- VZV- or mock-infected cells. [125I]IVDU was incorporated into both VZV DNA and cellular DNA of TK+ VZV-infected cells. When the cells were exposed to 0.3 microM IVDU, a more marked shift was noted in the buoyant density of viral DNA than of host DNA. In contrast, the DNAs isolated from TK- VZV- or mock-infected cells did not exhibit a detectable incorporation of [125I]IVDU. [125I] IVDU-labeled VZV DNA was purified from the viral nucleocapsids of TK+ VZV-infected cells. Substitution of no more than 0.1-1% of the thymidine residues in the VZV DNA by IVDU seemed to suffice to inhibit the replication of VZV.
Use of a tritiated thymidine suicide technique in the study of the cytotoxic drug response of cells located at different depths within multicellular spheroids.	A technique using 'tritiated thymidine suicide' has been established as a means of studying the response to cytotoxic drugs of cells at different depths within multicellular tumour spheroids. Because of the characteristic spatial arrangement of cycling cells (mostly in the outer regions) and non-cycling cells (mostly at the inner regions) of spheroids, cells surviving after long term (24 h) exposure of spheroids to high doses of 3HTdR will be those located furthest from the surface. By comparing the drug response of cells from 3HTdR pre-treated and untreated spheroids, the individual response of total cells, cells near to the surface and cells lying deeper within the viable rim of spheroids can therefore be deduced. In this study, large spheroids of about 800 micron in diameter of a mouse mammary cell line, EMT6/Ca/VJAC, and of a human small cell lung cancer cell line, POC, have been used. Using clonogenic assay, the response of these two cell types to adriamycin (ADM), nitrogen mustard (HN2), CCNU and vincristine (VCR) (POC only) were measured. The preliminary part of this study has confirmed that the cells killed are those which incorporate 3HTdR during the DNA synthesis period; the cells killed are mainly located in the outer regions of spheroids i.e. surviving cells are mostly located in the inner part of the viable rim and 3HTdR pretreatment does not sensitise surviving cells to subsequent cytotoxic drug treatment. Results from large EMT6 spheroids agree with our previous findings (obtained using a selective disaggregation method) that cells in the outer regions of spheroids are more sensitive to ADM and HN2 than cells in the inner regions whilst the opposite is true for CCNU. For POC spheroids, cells in the outer region of spheroids are more sensitive to ADM and VCR than cells in the inner region whilst a reverse trend is seen for the response to CCNU. The response to HN2 is similar at all depths. Amongst the factors governing the response of cells in spheroids to cytotoxic drugs, the responses to ADM and VCR are thought to be largely dictated by cell cycle distribution and limited drug penetrability, whilst for HN2 the response may be determined by the factor of cell cycle distribution. For CCNU, we believe that the cellular response is largely dependent upon microenvironmental factors prevailing within spheroids.
A comparison of clonogenic and radionuclide uptake assays for determining the radiation response of human small-cell lung cancer xenografts and cell lines.	Previous work has suggested that a radionuclide (3HTdR) uptake assay can provide a measure of drug and radiation sensitivity comparable with that given by the clonogenic assay. We have now extended this work to examine the radiation response of human small-cell lung cancer xenografts and cell lines with a wide range of plating efficiencies. Preliminary experiments using cultured cells indicated that irradiation of a single-cell suspension following disaggregation generally produced similar response data to those obtained when cultures were irradiated in situ and subsequently disaggregated. The response of eight cell lines to a single dose of 2 Gy was measured using both radionuclide uptake and clonogenic assays. There was no correlation between the two sets of data. Agreement between the radiation-response curves obtained using 3HTdR uptake and clonogenic assays was better for high plating efficiency xenografts (NCI-H69, COR-L51) than for low plating efficiency xenografts (COR-L24, COR-L31). Radionuclide uptake indicated very shallow response curves for the low plating efficiency lines. Altering the time of radionuclide addition from the standard Day 4 to other times between Day 2 and Day 6 did not greatly change the indications of radioresponsiveness provided by the assay. Growth-curve experiments for line COR-L24 showed that cell numbers at Day 4 after irradiation with 1.5 Gy or 3 Gy were very similar to those in unirradiated cultures. For NCI-H69, however, the cell numbers were very different for the different radiation doses. It appears that a high proportion of cells in lines such as COR-L24 take many days to show radiation damage as measured by reduced 3HTdR uptake.
Influence of insulin on mitotic rate in cultivated mammalian cells.	The influence of insulin (100 mU ml-1) on the mitotic rate in a tissue culture of muscle fibroblasts L was studied. The metod of temporary inhibition of cell transformation from G1 to S period with the aid of maintaining cells in serum free medium was used. Moreover, the number of mitoses in a stage of metaphasis after the addition of colchicine was counted and autoradiography was used. Insulin showed two independent effects on mitotic cycle: first it initiated the synthesis of DNA and increased the rate of a transformation of cells from a period G1 into period S; second--it increased the rate of processes at the final stages of mitotic cycle and increased the number of cells entering this cycle.
Effects of FSH and LH on incorporation of [3H]thymidine into follicular DNA.	To assess the roles of FSH and LH on follicular growth, after various experimental manipulations, hamster follicles were sorted into 10 stages and incubated for 4 h with [3H]thymidine. Stages 1-4 correspond to follicles with 1-4 layers of granulosa cells, respectively; Stage 5 = 5 or 6 layers of granulosa cells plus theca; Stage 6 = 7-8 layers of granulosa cells plus theca; Stage 7 = early formation of the antrum; Stages 8-10 = small, intermediate and large antral follicles, respectively. Phenobarbitone sodium injected at 13:00 h on pro-oestrus blocked the normal rise of blood FSH and LH concentrations at 15:00 h and prevented the increase of [3H]thymidine incorporation into follicles of Stages 1-9. The optimal treatment to reverse the effects of phenobarbitone was 1 microgram FSH and 2 micrograms LH injected i.p. at 13:00 h which restored DNA replication to follicles of Stages 2-10: FSH acted primarily on Stages 2-5 and LH on Stages 5-10. Injection of phenobarbitone at 13:00 h on prooestrus followed by 2.5 micrograms FSH at 22:00 h restored DNA synthesis by the next morning to follicles at Stages 1-8. In hamsters hypophysectomized at 09:00 h on the day of oestrus (Day 1), injection on Day 4 of 2.5 micrograms FSH restored DNA synthesis 6 h later to Stage 2-6 follicles. Unilateral ovariectomy on Day 3 resulted 6 h later in an acute rise in FSH and LH and change of follicles from Stage 4 to Stage 5 but, paradoxically, there was decreased synthesis of DNA in follicles of Stages 5-10.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of methoxy-p-benzoquinones and methoxy-p-hydroquinones on DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.	The effects of various methoxy-p-quinones and methoxy-p-hydroquinones on DNA synthesis and thymidine transport in Ehrlich Ascites Tumor Cells was investigated. The inhibitory concentrations (IC50) were in the range of 5 to 65 microM. Adriamycin, used as positive control, had an IC50 of 6 microM. 2,3-Dimethoxy-benzoquinone and -hydroquinone and 2,3,5,6-tetramethoxy-benzoquinone clearly inhibited DNA synthesis at concentrations where thymidine transport was not affected. 2-Methoxy-hydroquinone, 2-methoxy-benzoquinone, 2,6-dimethoxy-benzoquinone, 2,5-dimethoxy-benzoquinone had IC50-values close to the dose inhibiting also thymidine transport. 2,5-Dimethoxy-benzoquinone, 2,3,5-trimethoxy-hydroquinone, 2,3,5-trimethoxy-benzoquinone and 2,3,5,6-tetramethoxy-hydroquinone strongly inhibited thymidine transport without a significant effect on DNA synthesis. Addition of ascorbate enhanced the inhibitory activity of 2,6-dimethoxy-benzoquinone.
Uptake of extracellular Ca2+ and not recruitment from internal stores is essential for T lymphocyte proliferation.	Changes in free cytosolic calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) are thought to be important initiating events in the activation of T lymphocytes. Mitogen-induced increases in [Ca2+]i may result from net influx across the plasma membrane and/or release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. In human T lymphocytes loaded with the fluorescent indicator indo-1, addition of phytohemagglutinin (PHA) or the anti-CD3 antibody UCHT-1 elicits a biphasic [Ca2+]i response. A major component of the initial transient peak was due to release from internal stores whereas the lower plateau phase was sustained by Ca2+ influx. Previous work suggested that Ca2+ influx is essential for interleukin 2 (IL 2) secretion and cell proliferation. To determine the relative effects of the initial and sustained phases of [Ca2+]i change, IL 2 secretion and cell proliferation, we introduced into the cell 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA), a high affinity intracellular Ca2+ chelator which neither contributes to nor interferes with the fluorescence determinations of [Ca2+]i. In cells preloaded with BAPTA, both PHA and UCHT-1 antibody failed to elicit the transient [Ca2+]i overshoot. Only the plateau phase could be observed in the presence of extracellular Ca2+. In contrast, BAPTA-loaded cells were found to be fully functional when assessed for IL 2 receptor expression, IL 2 secretion and cell proliferation. Thus, the mitogen-induced, maximal but transient increase in [Ca2+]i, contributed to mainly by release of Ca2+ from internal stores, does not appear to be essential for these T cell responses.
Modulation of sensitivity to mitoxantrone in human chronic myeloid leukemia cells by the antidepressant sintamil.	The utility of mitoxantrone (MTN) in the cytotoxic chemotherapy of human chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is envisaged. In the present study we employed marginally toxic concentration of MTN and the antidepressant sintamil (SNT) as drug response modulator to evaluate the heterogeneous response to chemotherapy by CML cells and to potentiate the cytotoxicity of MTN. In vitro results from 26 different CML blood samples displayed variation in cytotoxicity of MTN (1 microgram/ml) alone alone and in the resulting synergistic inhibition of DNA biosynthesis with the combination of SNT (10 micrograms/ml). Of the 26 samples studied, 14 samples indicated synergistic, 2 additive, and 11 less than additive cytotoxic effects due to the combined treatment with MTN and SNT. The cytotoxicity induced by MTN alone and the combination with SNT was found to be irreversible. Data suggest the utility of MTN alone and in combination with SNT in the treatment of CML and warrant further studies for the evaluation in the clinics.
Effect of corticosteroids on lymphocyte activation.	Human peripheral blood lymphocytes were stimulated by concanavalin A, sodium periodate, and neuraminidase plus galactose oxidase. Response to mitogens was measured by the amount of tritiated thymidine incorporated as well as the percent of "giant sheep red blood cell rosettes" generated. The thymidine incorporation was diminished by the absence of monocytes or the presence of corticosteroids. The percent of giant rosettes generated was not influenced by either change. This finding suggested that considerable lymphocyte activation could still take place in the presence of corticosteroids. When subjects received 60 mg of prednisone, they developed lymphopenia 5 hr later. The circulating lymphocytes at that time responded less well to mitogen stimulation when measured by both thymidine incorporation and percent giant rosettes, suggesting a selective sequestration of mitogen-responsive lymphocytes outside the circulatory compartment.
Differential effects of epidermal growth factor, somatomedin-C/insulin-like growth factor I, and transforming growth factor-beta on porcine granulosa cell deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis and cell proliferation.	Recent studies have suggested that the mammalian ovary synthesizes epidermal growth factor (EGF), somatomedin-C/insulin-like growth factor I (Sm-C), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGFb) and that these growth factors may in part form a basis for intraovarian regulation of granulosa cell proliferation and differentiation. The studies described herein were initiated to determine to what extent EGF, Sm-C, and TGFb function to regulate DNA synthesis and granulosa cell proliferation during primary monolayer culture. EGF, but neither Sm-C nor TGFb, alone consistently stimulated, in a dose-dependent manner, [3H]thymidine incorporation by porcine granulosa cells under defined conditions (P less than 0.01). Sm-C (10 ng/ml) and TGFb (1 ng/ml) both enhanced EGF-stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation (56% and 300%, respectively; P less than 0.05). The levels of incorporation obtained with EGF plus TGFb were equal to or greater than those obtained using fetal bovine serum alone. When EGF, Sm-C, and TGFb were combined, [3H]thymidine incorporation was equivalent to that obtained with EGF plus 10% fetal bovine serum, heretofore the most potent stimulatory combination for [3H]thymidine incorporation. Thus, under defined conditions, EGF, Sm-C, and TGFb act synergistically to promote DNA synthesis in primary cultures of porcine granulosa cells. Although DNA synthesis is a requisite step for but is not an accurate measurement of cell proliferation per se, we investigated whether the observed effects of EGF, Sm-C, and TGFb on DNA synthesis were realized in terms of actual cell proliferation. This was accomplished using platelet-poor plasma-derived serum (PPPDS; 0.1-2.5%), which contains reduced levels of endogenous growth factors but not components needed for cell attachment. EGF (P less than 0.05), but neither Sm-C nor TGFb, alone consistently stimulated, in a dose-dependent manner, granulosa cell proliferation, an effect directly related to the PPPDS concentration. Sm-C consistently and significantly (P less than 0.05) enhanced EGF-stimulated cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. The facilitative effect of Sm-C was inversely related to the PPPDS concentration, ranging from a 76 +/- 15% increase at 0.1% PPPDS to a 14% increase at 1.0% PPPDS. TGFb exhibited a bifunctional effect on granulosa cell proliferation. At low levels of PPPDS (0.1% and 0.25%) and in the absence of Sm-C, TGFb enhanced EGF-stimulated cell division, an effect which, although small and variable (24 +/- 16%), was consistent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Demonstration of reduced mitogenic and osteoinductive activities in demineralized allogeneic bone matrix from vitamin D-deficient rats.	Osteoinduction is the formation of ectopic bone that follows implantation of demineralized allogeneic bone matrix (DABM) and is believed to be secondary to the release of associated inductive factors from bone matrix. To clarify the role of vitamin D in osteoinduction, we implanted DABM from vitamin D-deficient rats (-D rats) into normal rats (+D rats). Because mitogens and osteocalcin might be involved in osteoinduction, these were measured. Mitogenic activity in extracts from mineralized allogeneic bone matrix (ABM) and DABM from both +D and -D rats was determined with an assay that utilizes monolayer cultures of embryonic chick calvarial cells. Osteocalcin in serum and DABM was measured by radioimmunoassay. DABM from -D rats did not promote osteoinduction as effectively as DABM from +D rats. Resorption of implant matrix from -D rats was diminished compared with resorption of matrix from +D rats (P less than 0.01), and the decrease was attributed to a corresponding decrease in the number of osteoclasts in the implants (P less than 0.02). Bone formation (P less than 0.01) and total implant mineralization (P less than 0.001) were significantly reduced in implants from -D rats, and the reductions corresponded with a decline in the number of osteoblasts (P less than 0.05). Mitogenic activity in DABM from +D rats was only slightly decreased as compared with activity in ABM, but DABM from -D rats contained significantly less activity (P less than 0.001). No mitogenic activity was identified in implants of DABM from either +D or -D rats 3 wk after implantation. Serum osteocalcin was significantly higher in -D as compared with +D animals. In contrast, the concentrations of osteocalcin in DABM from the two groups of animals were not significantly different from each other. These findings indicate that the diminished osteoinductive activity of DABM from -D rats results from deficiency of one or more mitogenic factors that are essential for inducing the proliferation and differentiation of bone cells at the implant site and that osteocalcin does not play a role in this regard.
The measurement of granulocyte kinetics.	Studies using 3H-TdR, DF32P or 51Cr have all contributed important information concerning neutrophil kinetics in normal and abnormal conditions. Recent evidence, however, suggests that DF32P underestimates, and 51Cr overestimates, the blood neutrophil T1/2 and that both isotopes overestimate the TBNP, compared with 3H-TdR-derived data. The differences are quantitative and not qualitative, and the principles of blood neutrophil kinetics defined by DF32P studies are still valid. 3H-TdR studies are impractical for general use, and clinical measurement of neutrophil kinetics will have to continue to rely on the use of either DF32P or 51Cr. Comparison of abnormal findings with normal values obtained using the same isotope is probably valid for either technique. Changes in neutrophil kinetics leading to a neutrophil leucocytosis in different situations are fairly predictable from published data. In neutropenias, however, kinetic studies might be needed to delineate the relative contributions of under-production, shortened survival and excessive margination in the individual patient.
Slide chamber culture system for the in vitro study of humoral regulation of granulocyte and monocyte-macrophage proliferation and differentiation.	A liquid culture system employing slide chambers was developed to facilitate the study of proliferation and differentiation of mouse neutrophilic granulocytes and cells of the monocyte-macrophage series. Cultures were initiated with 1-2.5 X 10(4) light density marrow cells which had been fractionated on Ficoll-Hypaque. In the presence of colony-stimulating activity (CSAHU), two types of clusters were observed. One was tight, spheroidal, and composed of neutrophilic granulocytes, while the other was a loose grouping of flattened cells of the monocyte-macrophage series. The slide chamber culture is adaptable to microscopic assay techniques (e.g., cluster size, autoradiography, immunofluorescence) as well as quantitative biochemical methods (e.g., rate of 3H-thymidine incorporation, DNA quantitation). We have demonstrated both a shortening of the generation time of granulocytes in tight clusters and increasing rates of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA, with a corresponding increase in total culture DNA as a function of CSAHU concentration. Granulocytic differentiation in the tight spheroidal clusters has been demonstrated by histochemical stains and immunofluorescence of an antibody to a marker protein specific for the secondary granule of the neutrophil (lactoferrin).
Methods for determining the proliferation kinetics of cells by means of 5-bromodeoxyuridine.	After treatment of cells with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR), the percentage of completely BUdR-labelled interphase nuclei is greater the longer the BUdR treatment. The labelling effect is visible after staining with the fluorochrome 33258 Hoechst and with Giemsa. Various formulae and a nomogram are presented by means of which the percentage of cells in S period, duration of the S period and the whole cell cycle can be determined by examination of a single preparation or by comparison of several preparations. The methods are tested using cell cultures of Microtus agrestis and compared with autoradiographic methods after labeling with 3H-thymidine.
Proliferation of thymocytes in relation to T-cell receptor beta-chain expression.	During proliferation and differentiation of maturing thymocytes, T-cell receptor beta-chain products are first expressed in the cytoplasm. Only subsequently are they expressed on the cell surface, presumably as part of the alpha beta/CD3 receptor complex. This study uses double immunofluorescence labelling to identify these cytoplasmic and surface phases separately in relationship to cell-cycle parameters. The use of a mitotic arrest agent and tritiated thymidine autoradiography both show that cells with cytoplasmic beta-chains are in cell cycle, whereas cells with surface beta-chains are cycling slowly, if at all.
New culture tube with an inside wall devised for studies of short-term hyperthermia.	We devised a new kind of culture tube with which a cell suspension could be warmed through both the inside and outside walls. Use of this tube makes it possible to measure the effects of short-term hyperthermia more accurately than with the conventional tubes, which is heated through the outside wall only. Temperature curves rose significantly faster in the double-walled tube than in the conventional one. The accelerated heating efficiency of the new tube was also seen by the enhanced inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells grown in these tubes at the same final temperature as in a conventional tube.
Cell proliferation in rat kidney induced by 1,2-dibromoethane.	The effect of a single intragastric injection of 1,2-dibromoethane was investigated in kidneys of male Wistar rats. DNA synthesis as measured by the incorporation of tritiated thymidine was found to be approximately 5 times greater than that of controls 20-30 h after treatment. DNA synthesis was followed by a striking increase in the mitotic activity with a maximum at 30 h. The labeling and mitotic activities, after an initial increase, fell rapidly 48 h after treatment even though they were still higher than those of control animals. 1,2-Dibromoethane-induced cell proliferation is not a regenerative response because at the dose used in this study, no tubular necrosis was observed by histologic examination.
Induction of mouse monocyte-macrophage replication by a mesangial cell-derived factor.	Conditioned media of cultured mouse mesangial cells (possessing microfilaments) were shown to contain a factor that stimulated splenic monocytes-macrophages and blood monocytes to replicate. Replicated cells were shown to express MAC-1 antigen as demonstrated by immunofluorescence with anti-MAC 1 and to possess Fc receptors as evidenced by their capacity to ingest sensitized erythrocytes. Preliminary characterization revealed the following characteristics: by Amicon ultrafiltration, fractions greater than 100,000 daltons were shown to have biologic activity; chromatofocusing of these active fractions revealed a peak of activity associated with fractions having pH 4; heating to 100 degrees C for 10 minutes abolished almost all activity, whereas trypsin treatment was without effect. The observations suggest a mechanism by which mesangial cells may modulate the proliferation of monocytes-macrophages that infiltrate the glomerulus in glomerulonephritis.
Absolute and relative activities of platinum-complexes on human tumors as evaluated by an antimetabolic in vitro assay.	An in vitro assay, which evaluates drug effect on 3H-thymidine incorporation, was used to investigate the absolute and relative activities of cisplatin (DDP), carboplatin (CBDCA) and iproplatin (CHIP) on 317 specimens from untreated tumors, including breast and ovarian cancers and malignant melanomas. Similar activities were generally observed for DDP and CHIP, whereas CBDCA exhibited a lower, although not significantly different cytotoxicity on breast and ovarian cancers. The relative activities of Platinum analogues were analyzed on 239 two-way drug sensitivity comparisons. The overall agreement rates ranged from 80.2 to 83.9% for the different comparisons. High coresistance, from 61.1 to 93.8%, was observed for all the comparisons, regardless of the tumor type. Cosensitivity rates were poor for breast and ovarian cancers, from 0 to 37.5%, whereas for melanomas an association in sensitivity was observed in 80% of the cases.
Bone marrow cells other than stem cells seed the bone marrow after rescue transfusion of fatally irradiated mice.	In a previous publication, iodinated deoxyuridine (125IUdR) incorporation data were interpreted as indicating that spleen colony-forming units (CFU-S) in DNA synthesis preferentially seeded bone marrow. In the present studies, the CFU-S content of marrow from irradiated, bone-marrow transfused mice was directly determined. Pretreatment of the transfused cells with cytocidal tritiated thymidine resulted in an insignificant diminution in CFU-S content when compared with nontritiated thymidine pretreatment, implying that there is no preferential seeding. The 125IUdR incorporation data have been reinterpreted as being a result of the proliferation of other progenitor cells present that have seeded the bone marrow.
A direct assay for detection of chemically induced changes in the rejoining kinetics of radiation induced DNA strand breaks.	A simple and sensitive procedure for testing various chemicals affecting DNA repair is presented. Cells, either labelled with [3H]thymidine or [14C]thymidine, were drug-treated or used as references cells. Both cell populations were irradiated with 5 Gy. The number of DNA breaks were determined, after mixing of drug-treated and reference cells of different labelling, at various intervals by the DNA unwinding technique and the drug-dependent DNA breaks were calculated. The drugs benzamide, 3-aminobenzamide, novobiocin and 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (araA), all known to affect DNA repair, were used to study their effect on the number of DNA strand breaks with the presented technique. It was found that the assay improved the accuracy in determining the influence of DNA repair inhibitors compared to indirect measurements.
Assay of mitogen-induced effects on cellular incorporation of precursors for scavenger, de novo, and net DNA synthesis.	In summary we have presented data on [3H]dThd incorporation into DNA for a positive and negative growth modulator. These data clearly do not correspond to those based on net DNA synthesis (ortho[32P]phosphate incorporation into purified DNA) and previous knowledge of the effects of these hormones on cell number and cellular DNA accumulation. The paradox was resolved by directly analyzing effects of hormones on de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. E2 stimulated both de novo and scavenger pathways in the first wave of DNA synthesis and only de novo in the second (and subsequent) waves. In contrast, tam progressively inhibited de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. These hormonal effects on intracellulr pyrimidine pool sizes rendered [3H]dThd incorporation data by itself uninterpretable. [3H]dThd is a useful measure of DNA synthesis only if verified by independent measures of net DNA synthesis for the same time course and treatment conditions. In addition it may prove beneficial in various experimental systems to develop direct assays of de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis to assess mitogen effects. The experiments presented may also prove to be useful in evaluating the effects of mitogens and antimitogens on cells synchronized in the cell cycle by any of a variety of means.
The effects of Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin on intracellular levels or transport of uridine, thymidine and leucine do not fully explain enterotoxin-induced inhibition of macromolecular synthesis in Vero cells.	Clostridium perfringens type A enterotoxin (CPE) has been shown previously to inhibit the incorporation of radiolabeled precursors into acid-insoluble material but the mechanism of inhibition is unknown. It has also been shown that extracellular calcium is required for some CPE effects. In this report, it is shown that CPE completely and virtually simultaneously inhibits incorporation of precursors into RNA, DNA and protein in either the presence or absence of extracellular divalent cations and that changes in intracellular precursor levels did not consistently correlate with this CPE-induced inhibition of incorporation. These results strongly suggest that CPE can inhibit macromolecular synthesis, not just inhibit precursor transport. It is inferred from this that CPE can affect DNA and RNA synthesis, and possibly protein synthesis, by altering other cellular processes besides, or in addition to, precursor transport and these effects then lead to a shutdown of macromolecular synthesis.
The pigmented epithelium sustains cell growth and tissue differentiation of chicken retinal explants in vitro.	Embryonic retinae from 5-6-day-old chicks (E5-E6) were cut into stripes either in close contact with (RPE stripes) or in absence of the neighboring retinal pigmented epithelium (R stripes). The stripes were explanted and cultivated in vitro for up to 6 days, during which time they show the following differences in their characteristics of growth and differentiation. Compared with R stripes, RPE stripes morphologically showed a significant increase in size during the first 2 days in culture. Using E5 tissue, this is also demonstrated by a higher rate of cell proliferation (as measured by uptake of radioactive thymidine as well as by DNA contents). In contrast, R stripes after two days in culture show a much stronger neurite growth. After longer periods of culturing (5-6 days) we can show by cholinesterase histochemistry (AChE and BChE) and by PNA-lectin binding that the RPE stripes have started to form all major layers of the in vivo retina, whereas R stripes remain unstratified and start to degenerate earlier. We conclude that the pigment epithelium might exert a specific stimulus on growth and tissue differentiation of the neural retina not only during in vitro, but possibly also during in vivo development. The in vitro methods introduced here could become useful model systems to further investigate the significance of the RPE for developmental, regenerative and even adult processes of the neural retina. Their future applicability in ophthalmologic research is briefly discussed.
Effect of vitamin E on oxysterol- and fatty acid hydroperoxide-induced changes of repair and permeability properties of cultured endothelial cell monolayers.	Oxidation products of fatty acids (fatty acid hydroperoxides) or of cholesterol (oxysterols) may be atherogenic by being injurious to the vascular endothelium. Vitamin E may protect cells against such injury by acting as an antioxidant and by regulating cell growth and/or repair. As indices of proliferation and growth/repair, synthesis of DNA [3H]thymidine incorporation) and protein ([3H]leucine incorporation), as affected by exposure to linoleic acid hydroperoxide (18:2-OOH), cholestan-3 beta, 5 alpha, 6 beta-triol (Triol), and/or alpha-tocopherol, was determined in confluent vascular endothelial cell cultures. Cell injury was assessed by measuring the passage of albumin through a cultured endothelial monolayer. Exposure to either Triol or 18:2-OOH significantly increased the rate of albumin transfer across endothelial monolayers. Prior enrichment with vitamin E protected endothelial cells from injury by 18:2-OOH but not Triol. Cell exposure to 25 microM vitamin E increased DNA synthesis compared with control cultures. DNA synthesis was also elevated in 18:2-OOH exposed cells, whereas Triol had no effect on cell replication. Prior cell exposure to vitamin E prevented the marked increase in DNA synthesis seen with 18:2-OOH. Protein synthesis was increased by 18:2-OOH, but not by Triol or vitamin E treatment. These results show that 1) both Triol and 18:2-OOH are cytotoxic, 2) vitamin E stimulates cell proliferation, 3) vitamin E protects cells against 18:2-OOH- but not Triol-induced cell injury (i.e., increased permeability to albumin), and 4) endothelial cell damage initiated by 18:2-OOH, but not Triol, stimulates synthesis of DNA and protein in an attempt to divide and repair the injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Microinjection of deoxynucleotides into mouse cells. No evidence that precursors for DNA synthesis are channeled.	The technique of microinjection was applied for the introduction of radioactive, phosphorylated precursors of DNA synthesis into living mouse cells in culture. Autoradiographs proved that DNA was well labeled by injected dTTP, dCTP, dATP, dGTP, and (to a minor extent) dTMP, but the efficiency was much lower when CDP, ADP, or GDP was used. For practical reasons, injections into nuclei were preferred, but injections into cytoplasm showed no principal difference with the autoradiographed nuclei. The kinetics of the uptake of the injected material agreed neatly with the calculation (from pool sizes and polymerization rate) that the intracellular deoxytriphosphates are sufficient for about 10 min of DNA synthesis. All this evidence strongly argues against the concept that precursors of DNA synthesis are channeled in vivo within a multienzyme complex and suggests a free diffusion of deoxynucleotides within the cell. Injected thymidine was less able to enter the deoxy nucleotide metabolism compared with thymidine from the culture medium. A mutant cell line deficient in thymidine kinase did not accumulate intracellular thymidine. These data indicate that thymidine kinase is a membrane associated enzyme and that uptake and phosphorylation of thymidine are coupled reactions.
Low levels of DNA excision repair in undamaged bovine lymphocytes.	Quiescent and concanavalin A-stimulated bovine lymphocytes were subjected to a buoyant density analysis used in excision repair studies. Despite neutral and alkaline rebands to remove replicative contamination, the CsCl gradient profiles of DNA isolated from unstimulated lymphocytes given a 6-h labelling period revealed a small amount of radioactivity in the normal-density region which is indicative of an excision repair process. It amounted to the incorporation of 8,000-20,000 molecules of thymidine per lymphocyte. In a 12-h labelling period the extent of repair incorporation was twice that measured in a 6-h period. The extent of this repair incorporation was not altered significantly during the initial 6 or 12 h of lectin stimulation when DNA-strand breaks normally present in the unstimulated cells are repaired. The same amount of repair activity was found whether the measurements were made on the same day that the lymphocytes were isolated or on the next day following an overnight incubation of the cells in culture medium. These observations indicate that lymphocytes display a spontaneous excision repair activity that proceeds continuously and at a constant rate.
Autoradiographic analysis of hepatocytes in mirex-induced adaptive liver growth.	The relationships between [3H]thymidine incorporation into hepatocyte nuclei, cell enlargement, and mitotic index were studied in intact (INT) and adrenalectomized (ADX) mirex-dosed rats. In INT mirex-dosed rats the sequence of events included the following: a biphasic response in nuclear labeling of mononuclear hepatocytes with peaks at 48 and 66 h postmirex dose, a peak in mitotic activity 66 h postmirex dose, and a significant increase in binuclear hepatocyte size 48 h postmirex dose. In ADX mirex-dosed rats the sequence of events included the following: a biphasic response in nuclear labeling of mononuclear hepatocytes with peaks at 24 and 48 h postmirex dose, a peak in mitotic activity 60 h postmirex dose, and a marginal increase in binuclear hepatocyte size 48 h postmirex dose. Corticosterone supplements to ADX mirex-dosed rats significantly reduced nuclear labeling of the mononuclear hepatocytes and increased the size of binuclear hepatocytes to that observed in INT mirex-dosed rats. This study demonstrates that adaptive liver growth consists of a hyperplastic response that involves mononuclear hepatocytes and a hypertrophic response that involves binuclear hepatocytes. Both responses appear to be modulated by corticosterone.
Primary structure of human skeletal growth factor: homology with human insulin-like growth factor-II.	Human skeletal growth factor (human SGF) extracted from human bone has been purified to homogeneity by hydroxyapatite chromatography and gel filtration under dissociative conditions followed by FPLC heparin-Sepharose affinity chromatography and reverse phase HPLC. Human SGF was homogeneous except that in each preparation about 30% of SGF molecules lacked the N-terminal alanine. 75% of the human SGF sequence has been determined. The amino acid sequences of the N-terminal 20 amino acids and of several tryptic fragments were identical to the corresponding sequences of human insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) purified from serum. However, since the C-peptide (variable region) of human SGF has not yet been sequenced, we cannot conclude that SGF is identical to IGF-II. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of human SGF with that of IGF-II variants that have been described in the literature revealed that human SGF is not one of the known IGF-II variants. IGF-I was also found in human bone extract but was several-fold less abundant than SGF/IGF-II. The relative abundance of SGF/IGF-II and IGF-I in bone corresponded to the relative rates of production of these two mitogens by human bone cells in vitro. Regarding the physiological significance of IGF-II in bone, previous studies on the biological actions of SGF in vitro suggest that this growth factor can have both paracrine and autocrine functions on cells of the osteoblast line. In addition, we have proposed the concept that SGF is a mediator of the coupling of bone formation to bone resorption, an important bone volume regulatory mechanism. In as much as SGF is very similar (if not identical) to IGF-II, it seems likely that these proposed regulatory functions of SGF in bone are attributable to IGF-II.
Effects of gastric mucosa irradiation with helium-neon laser on epithelial cells]	Effect of various doses of low-tense laser irradiation on proliferative and functional morphology of fundal gastric epitheliocytes in rats was studied by endogastric irradiation with the methods of histochemistry, autoradiography, transmission and scanning electron microscopy. It was shown that laser irradiation effect varied with its dose and was spread on gastric mucosa lying at the site of direct influence. The doses of irradiation that had no alternative effect induced reconstruction of epitheliocytes especially mucocytes indicating intensification of specific function in them, as well as an increase of proliferative activity.
The role of blood platelets in nucleoside metabolism: assay, cellular location and significance of thymidine phosphorylase in human blood.	The enzyme thymidine phosphorylase (thymidine: orthophosphate deoxyribosyltransferase, EC 2.4.2.4), which plays a crucial role in nucleic acid metabolism in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells by regulating the availability of thymidine, is present in mammalian blood. Here we describe a simple, rapid HPLC-based micromethod for the assay of blood thymidine phosphorylase. We have arbitrarily defined 1 unit of blood thymidine phosphorylase activity as the activity required to produce a 1-nM increment in the plasma concentration of thymine after incubation for 1 h at 37 degrees C with a saturating concentration of exogenous thymidine. In normal adults, whole (peripheral venous) blood thymidine phosphorylase activity with blood cells intact was 64 +/- 11 units (mean +/- S.D., n = 20, range 45-89). The apparent Michaelis constant for thymidine was of the order of 10(-4) M but varied nearly 5-fold between different individuals. Activity increased when blood cells were permeabilised or lysed with non-ionic detergents, implying that thymidine phosphorylase is an intracellular enzyme which may be influenced by exogenous as well as intracellular factors. When blood from normal donors was fractionated, thymidine phosphorylase activity consistently co-isolated with platelets. Whole-blood thymidine phosphorylase activity correlated well with platelet parameters. Although thymidine phosphorylase activity was also detected in plasma and serum, the small size and notorious fragility of platelets suggest its platelet origin. Blood from leukaemic donors showed significantly increased thymidine phosphorylase activity compared to normal controls (mean activity +/- S.D. was 96 +/- 27 units; range 58-140, n = 8). Thymine formation from thymidine was temperature- and pH-dependent in whole blood. 2'-Deoxyuridine and 3 of its 5-halogenated analogues (but not 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT), were catabolised by blood thymidine phosphorylase, even during blood clotting at room temperature. Assumptions about in vivo concentrations of these compounds should therefore be interpreted cautiously. In the presence of high concentrations of thymine and suitable deoxyribose donors, small amounts of thymidine were formed in some blood samples, so it is conceivable that thymidine catabolism may be reversible in vivo under some circumstances.
In vivo and in vitro chemotherapy sensitivity testing for human kidney tumor lines: a comparative study.	In vivo and in vitro chemosensitivity testing has been applied to kidney carcinoma tumor lines. Serially transplantable tumors were implanted subcutaneously in nude mice and the animals were treated with cytostatic drugs. The results of this in vivo assay were compared with the results obtained with the subrenal capsule assay, the DNA precursor assay (3H-thymidine), and the colony-formation assay, utilizing the same tumor line in each case. Higher rates of resistant tumors were found in the in vivo assays than in the in vitro assays. The SRC assay and the DNA assay had the highest predictive value, as judged from comparison with the results obtained with the source tumor (human kidney carcinoma tumor line).
Effect of mitoxantrone on human chronic myeloid leukemia cells in vitro, combined with hyperthermia.	Mitoxantrone, a new anticancer drug has DNA-binding properties similar to anthracycline antibiotics. In the present studies, effect of the drug has been tested in vitro on human chronic myeloid leukemia cells at 37 degrees C and 42 degrees C. Inhibition of 3H-tritiated thymidine incorporation in the drug-treated cells compared with untreated cells has been used as the parameter of cytotoxicity of the drug and hyperthermia. Cell samples from 11 CML patients who did not receive any chemotherapy showed less response to the drug at 0.5 micrograms/ml and 1 microgram/ml at 37 degrees C. Exposure of CML cells to 42 degrees C for 2 h indicated 13 to 44% inhibition in 3H-TdR incorporation. However, when CML cells were exposed to mitoxantrone for 2 h at 42 degrees C the 3H-thymidine incorporation was inhibited to the extent of 27 to 71%, indicating greater cellular damage with this combination.
Excretion of lipoteichoic acid by group A streptococci. Influence of penicillin on excretion and loss of ability to adhere to human oral mucosal cells.	Group A streptococci were grown in the presence of [2-(3)H]glycerol. Concentrated suspensions of the labeled organisms were incubated with and without penicillin. [(3)H]Glycerol-labeled material accumulated in the supernates in increasing amounts with increasing concentrations of penicillin, ranging from 0 to 50 U/ml. The excretion of labeled material occurred in the absence of nucleic acid synthesis or bacteriolysis indicating that the phenomenon is independent of cell multiplication or decay. The accumulation of label was paralleled by an accumulation of erythrocyte-sensitizing material measured by passive hemagglutination tests for lipoteichoic acid antigen, indicating that a portion of the labeled material possessed the properties of lipoteichoic acid. Culture supernates were fractionated by column chromatography, and the materials obtained were analyzed by electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide, thin-layer chromatography, and paper chromatography. The ability of the same materials to bind to human erythrocytes and epithelial cells was tested. The culture supernate contained lipoteichoic acid, deacylated lipoteichoic acid, glycerol phosphate, and free glycerol. Penicillin caused an increase in the amounts of each of the excreted materials. Streptococci that were stimulated with penicillin to lose their lipoteichoic acid (previously shown to mediate adherence of group A streptococci) lost their ability to adhere to buccal mucosal cells, suggesting that penicillin may influence bacterial ecology by mechanisms other than killing sensitive organisms.
Impairment of cell-mediated immunity in mutation diabetic mice (db/db).	Mutation diabetes in the mouse occurs in the C57BL/Ks strain. All homozygous animals (db/db) develop obesity, elevated blood sugar levels and increased or normal blood insulin concentration. The defects in cellular immunity in db/db mice and their littermate controls were examined both in vivo and in vitro. Significant suppression of delayed footpad swelling and first and second set skin allograft rejection time were observed. In addition, DNA synthesis in spleen cells after nonspecific mitogen stimulation was markedly inhibited. Diabetic animals with a mean blood sugar of 512 +/- 101 mg/100 ml did not respond to exogenous insulin therapy by lowering their blood sugar levels or reversing the defect in DNA synthesis. Adding insulin to spleen cell culture in vitro had no demonstrable effect on their response to mitogens. Thus, mutation diabetic mice with their known defect in the peripheral utilization of insulin have markedly suppressed cell-mediated immune mechanisms.
Adaptive responses of the pulmonary macrophagic system to carbon. I. Kinetic studies.	The adaptive capacity of the lung to increase the output of alveolar macrophages is vital to its handling of foreign material, particularly in an overload situation. In previous papers we demonstrated the role of pulmonary intersititial cells in providing a pool of precursor cells that may be available for this purpose. We now extend these observations to a study of pulmonary cytodynamics in mice subjected to a single large load (4 mg.) of carbon delivered by endotracheal tube. The output of free macrophages over a period of 14 days was correlated with DNA synthesis of pulmonary cells as measured by their uptake of 3H-thymidine. The initial increase of macrophagic output, 5 times in 12 hours and 10 times in 24 hours occurred before any increase in mitotic activity or cellularity was demonstrated in the pulmonary interstitium. The high level of macrophagic cell output which was maintained over the next week was accompanied by increased thymidine uptake in the lung. Increased mitotic activity was confined to the interstitial cell population; no mitoses were observed in free macrophages. The results indicate a biphasic macrophagic response to inhaled particulates, an early phase apparently unrelated to a local cellular response and a later phase of interstitial cell proliferation which appears to be concerned with the maintenance of the high output of macrophages.
Genetic damage during thymidylate starvation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Thymidylate starvation in a yeast mutant auxotrophic for dTMP caused cell death and the induction of mutations in the mitochondrial genome. After 24 h of starvation almost all surviving cells were respiratory deficient petites. In addition, shorter episodes of dTMP starvation induced chloramphenicol and erythromycin resistant mutants, indicating the occurrence of mitochondrial point mutations. Suboptimal concentrations of exogenous thymidylate were also found to induce petites and a decline in cell viability and the magnitude of these effects was acutely dependent upon the dTMP concentration. Cesium chloride gradient analysis of DNA from cells undergoing thymineless incubation revealed a progressive loss of mitochondrial DNA, and a decrease in the molecular weight of nuclear DNA.
Molecular evidence for cleavage of intradimer phosphodiester linkage as a novel step in excision repair of cyclobutyl pyrimidine photodimers in cultured human cells.	A re-analysis of the metabolic fate of ultraviolet light (u.v.)-induced cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers in the DNA of dermal fibroblasts from patients with different genetic forms of xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), a rare cancer-prone skin disorder, has provided new insight into the mode of dimer repair in normal human cells. When DNA isolated from post-u.v. incubated cultures was subjected to enzymic photoreactivation (PR) to probe dimer authenticity, single-strand scissions were produced in the damaged DNA of incubated XP group A and D cells, but not in DNA from XP group C cells or normal controls. Since enzymic PR treatment ruptures only the cyclobutane ring, these results suggested that in dimer excision-defective XP group A and D strains, the intradimer phosphodiester bond may have been cleaved without site restoration. Such a cleavage event had not previously been detected; the possibility that this reaction may be an early step in the normal excision-repair process is supported by the observed release of free thymidine (dThd) and its monophosphate (TMP), but not of thymine, upon photochemical reversal of the dimer-containing excision fragments isolated from post-u.v. incubated normal cells. The combined number of dThd and TMP molecules released was equal to approximately equal to 80% of the number of dimers photoreversed; for such release to occur, the dimer must both be at one end of an excised fragment and contain an internal phosphodiester break. Taken together, these data lead us to propose a novel model for dimer repair in human cells in which hydrolysis of the intradimer phosphodiester linkage precedes the concerted action of a generalized 'bulky lesion-repair complex' involving conventional strand incision/lesion excision/repair resynthesis/strand ligation reactions.
Effects of extracellular products of a presumed gingival pathogen, the bacterium Peptostreptococcus 84H14S, on cultured human fibroblasts and HeLa cells.	Culture fluids from this microorganism, fibroblasts and HeLa cells contained potent factors which inhibited thymidine uptake in HeLa cells. The outcome of heating the culture fluid and fractionating it by gel filtration suggested that this was not due to bacterial hyaluronidase activity. Purified peptostreptococcal hyaluronidase and several commercially-available mucopolysaccharidases also did not inhibit thymidine uptake.
The rate of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis by cultured Chinese-hamster ovary cells. An application of isotope-dilution analysis.	The rate of DNA synthesis is exponentially growing cells was determined by isotopedilution analysis of the incorporation of [me-3H]thymidine. Thymidine concentrations greater than 7 micrometer were used so that the rate-limiting step governing incorporation would be at the level of DNA polymerase rather than at the level of thymidine kinase [Sjostrom & Forsdyke (1974) Biochem. J. 138, 253-262]. In early exponential phase the rate determined by isotope-dilution analysis closely correlated with the rates calculated either from growth curves or from known cell-cycle parameters. However, in late-exponential phase the rate calculated from the growth curve was less than that determined by isotope-dilution analysis. We conclude that, under certain conditions, the pool-corrected rate of incorporation of [me-3H]thymidine, as determined by isotope-dilution analysis, can accurately reflect the rate of DNA synthesis. Discrepancies between the observed rate of DNA synthesis and increase in cell number could reflect an exponential degeneration of post-S-phase cells.
Intermittent high-dose cyclophosphamide chemotherapy for small cell carcinoma of the lung.	Twenty-three patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung (15 with limited disease and eight with extensive disease) were randomized into one of two induction schedules of high-dose cyclophosphamide (CY), 60 mg/kg iv, given either on Days 1 and 2 or on Days 1 and 8. Following the high-dose CY, patients were treated with a sequence of three monthly courses of COMB (CY, 800 mg/m2; vincristine [Oncovin], 1.4 mg/m2; methotrexate, 20 mg/m2; and BCNU, 60 mg/m2) alternating with high-dose CY. The overall response rate to the high-dose CY was 70% with 17% being complete responses (CRs). COMB produced no additional responses. There was no significant difference in response rate with either high-dose CY schedule. There was no unexpected morbidity associated with the intensive regiment despite marked myelosuppression. The high-dose CY administered on Days 1 and 8 appeared less toxic than that given on Days 1 and 2. Laboratory studies demonstrated that small cell carcinoma cells respond to drug-induced humoral stimulation in vitro; and that tumor proliferation in vivo temporally coincides with increased serum stimulatory activity. This study demonstrates that high-dose CY is a safe and effective induction therapy for small cell carcinoma of the lung although the low CR rate obtained is disappointing.
Autocrine growth and progression of murine X-ray-induced T cell lymphomas.	Primary tumors of X-ray-induced murine T cell lymphomas comprise autocrine, growth factor-dependent cells. We have grown cell lines from primary X-ray-induced thymic lymphomas (PXTLs) under conditions which minimize the progression of the cells from factor dependence to factor independence. All (22) PXTL lines grown secrete a growth factor which supports their own growth and which we will call lymphoma growth factor LGF. LGF-dependent cells are non-tumorigenic or poorly tumorigenic, do not clone in soft agar, have no detectable rearrangements in the c-myc or Pim-1 region and possess near diploid or pseudodiploid karyotypes without evidence for trisomy of chromosomes nos. 15 or 17. PXTL-secreted LGF has no interleukin 1, 2, or 3 activity nor do LGF-secreting cells synthesize detectable IL-1, -2, or -3 mRNA. LGF contains no detectable interferon or GM-CSF activity in specific bioassays. Purified EGF, TGF beta, and interleukin preparations are inactive on LGF-dependent PXTL cells. Thus LGF appears to be a new growth factor that is required for the proliferation of non-progressed T lymphoma cells. Upon progression PXTL cells become growth factor independent, are highly tumorigenic in vivo, clone in soft agar, and assume a near triploid karyotype containing numerous chromosomal aberrations. Thus in X-ray-induced lymphomagenesis an autocrine, LGF-dependent phase precedes the progressed phase characterized by rearrangements in the myc and/or Pim-1 regions as well as by many chromosomal aberrations visible in the karyotype.
Synergy between interleukin-2 and a second factor in the long-term growth of human T cells.	It has recently been shown that factors in addition to interleukin-2 (IL-2) are required for the proliferation or differentiation of at least some murine T-cell lines. We have previously shown that conditioned medium from human mononuclear cells stimulated with phorbol ester and staphylococcal enterotoxin A is superior to commercial sources of IL-2 for the long-term growth of human T cells. We have identified in these supernatants a non-IL-2 factor (synergistic factor, SF) which synergizes with JURKAT IL-2 in the long-term growth of human T cells. [3H]TdR incorporation by IL-2-dependent human T cells after growth in IL-2 or SF alone for 14 days was slight, but significant. By contrast, growth in a combination of SF and IL-2 for 14 days stimulated [3H]TdR incorporation 10-20-fold higher, generally equal to the high incorporation measured when cells were grown in the presence of the conditioned medium from which SF was obtained. In a standard 2-day IL-2 assay, there was no correlation between activity and long-term growth-promoting ability. These results suggest that the 14-day assay better discerns the growth-promoting activity of various factors or combinations of factors. The mechanism of this interaction between SF and IL-2 remains to be elucidated. It is clear, however, that T-cell growth factor activity, when assessed by the long-term growth of human T cells, is not due to interleukin-2 alone.
Epidermal growth factor inhibits thymidine incorporation in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells in vivo.	The effects of in vivo injection of epidermal growth factor (EGF) on mice bearing Ehrlich ascites tumors have been studied. Epidermal growth factor was rapidly distributed, reached tumor cells and recognized specific cell membrane receptors. The effects of the subcutaneous injection of EGF were manifested by a decrease of measurable membrane receptors and inhibition of thymidine incorporation to TCA-insoluble material. The effect on thymidine incorporation was dose-dependent and independent on the source (murine or human) of EGF. These results suggest that high doses of EGF could eventually be used for inhibition of the cell proliferation in some tumors.
DNA strand breakage in Chinese hamster V79 cells caused by low levels of incorporated [3H] and [14C]thymidine.	A sensitive alkali-unwinding assay was used to measure DNA strand breakage in Chinese hamster V79 cells caused by low-level incorporation of methyl-labelled [3H] and [14C] thymidine, and to estimate the effective dose per disintegration relative to low doses of gamma-irradiation. Damage equivalent to 0.0035 +/- 0.0006 and 0.0014 +/- 0.0005 Gy was observed for each 3H and 14C disintegration respectively. These values agree well with those expected from the estimated nuclear radiation dose delivered by the beta particles if a relative biological effect (r.b.e.) of 1.0 is assumed, and suggest that strand-breakage produced by these isotopes is determined by the nuclear radiation dose delivered by the beta particles.
Fibronectin-associated transforming growth factor.	We have studied the ability of fibronectins to induce anchorage-independent growth of NRK-49F cells in serum-free medium. Cells were seeded in soft agar in the presence of various concentrations of plasma fibronectins, and colonies were counted after 10 days. It was found that, with some exceptions, human plasma fibronectins induced anchorage-independent growth at concentrations in 20-100 micrograms/ml range. The ability of exogenously supplied fibronectins to promote anchorage-independent growth of NRK cells is attributed to a transforming growth factor (TGF) activity associated with gelatin-agarose affinity purified plasma fibronectins. This TGF activity required epidermal growth factor (EGF) in our serum-free assay system. The TGF-like activity appears to either co-purify or to be associated with fibronectin at neutral pH during molecular sieve chromatography and during ultracentrifugation through sucrose density gradients. The TGF activity "dissociates" from fibronectin at extremes of pH, however, and can be separated from fibronectin by molecular sieve chromatography in 1 M acetic acid. Under these conditions, the TGF-like activity chromatographed as a single peak with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 30 kDa. The physical-chemical properties, chromatographic behavior, and biological activity of this TGF suggest that it is type-beta transforming growth factor/growth inhibitor (beta-TGF/GI). The TGF activity has been observed in fibronectin isolated from fresh human plasma as well as in fibronectins from several other species obtained from commercial suppliers. Our results would suggest that caution be applied in the interpretation of experiments in which gelatin affinity purified fibronectins are used at micrograms/ml concentrations.
Effect of epidermal growth factor (EGF) on [3H]TdR incorporation into DNA in ad lib fed and fasted CD2F1 mice.	The effect of EGF on the incorporation of [3H]TdR into DNA (DNA synthesis) was determined in the esophagus, liver, pancreas, and kidney in mice standardized to 12 hours (hr) of light alternating with 12 hr of darkness. A question asked was whether intraperitoneally administered EGF could alter the circadian patterns of DNA synthesis in these organs. The most marked effects of EGF were: an increase in DNA synthesis but only after a specific duration of time after treatment, ranging from 8 to 23 hr, which differed for each tissue, a similarity in the response of the esophagus in both ad lib fed and fasted mice, but not in the response of the liver, where the stimulatory effect of EGF observed in fed mice was dramatically reduced in fasted ones, and an advance in the phasing of the circadian rhythm in DNA synthesis of the esophagus by about 12 hr. In addition, no sex differences in fasted animals were found under the conditions of this study.
Initial characterization of humoral IL-2 response inhibition following donor-specific transfusions under azathioprine immunosuppression.	A previous study indicated that noncompetitive humoral inhibition of IL-2-induced proliferation was a frequent consequence of donor-specific transfusions under azathioprine immunosuppression. In this report, we present our initial characterization of the mode of action and nature of this humoral activity. A direct role for azathioprine seems unlikely since its removal from post-DST+A sera did not eliminate inhibition, nor did addition of azathioprine to normal sera mimic the inhibition by post-DST+A sera. Inhibition of the proliferative response to IL-2 was observed on an individual cell basis after IL-2 stimulation that did not involve a direct effect on DNA synthesis. Inhibition appeared to require optimal IL-2 receptor expression as well as optimal doses of IL-2, suggesting that inhibition is manifested at the postreceptor level. Inhibition could not be removed by reconstitution with normal sera, indicating that post-DST+A sera were not deficient in a nominal serum component, which is necessary for optimal proliferation. The inhibitory activity in post-DST+A sera was sensitive to chemical reduction and heat. Inhibition of the response to IL-2 was readily demonstrated using IL-2 responsive human or murine T lymphocytes. However, post-DST+A serum also inhibited proliferation of one of two IL-2 independent cell lines. These results suggest that the inhibitory activity in post-DST+A plasma/serum may be due to the induction of an inhibitor of cell proliferation that is either lacking or "deficient" in normal serum.
Impaired synergism between somatomedin C/insulin-like growth factor I and dexamethasone in the growth of fibroblasts from a patient with insulin resistance.	To explore a possible mechanism for the diminished growth potential in a patient with an unusual form of insulin resistance, somatomedin C/insulin-like growth factor I (SM-C/IGF-I) and insulin stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation and cell replication were compared in skin fibroblasts from the patient (DF) and normal controls. There appeared to be no generalized abnormality in cellular responsiveness to growth factors. In both DF and control cells, SM-C/IGF-I (50 ng/ml), insulin (100 ng/ml), and epidermal growth factor (5 ng/ml) stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation 5-, 2-, and 6-fold, respectively. Low concentrations of human hypopituitary serum (0.25%) enhanced the effectiveness of SM-C/IGF-I and insulin to a similar extent in both DF and control cells. On the other hand, 10% calf serum stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation 37-fold in control cells, while DF cells were only 50% as responsive. Preincubation of control cells with dexamethasone (10(-7) M) caused a marked synergistic increase in SM-C/IGF-I stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation (15- to 20-fold in serum-free medium; 50- to 80-fold in 0.25% human hypopituitary serum). In contrast, preexposure to dexamethasone did not augment SM-C/IGF-I stimulation of thymidine incorporation into DNA of DF cells. Furthermore, the stimulation of cell replication by SM-C/IGF-I and insulin was potentiated by dexamethasone in control but not DF cultures. These data suggest that impairment of the synergistic action of glucocorticoids with SM-C/IGF-I and insulin regulation of fibroblast growth may be involved in the pathology of this insulin-resistant growth disorder.
Stimulation of anchorage-independent growth of human tumor cells by interleukin 1.	Human peripheral blood monocytes and tumor-associated macrophages release a factor that enhances the clonal growth of a human epithelial tumor cell line (SW-13) in soft agar. We now demonstrate that purified interleukin 1 (IL-1) may account for part of this colony-stimulating activity. Purified IL-1 (0.5 to 8 units/ml) was added to SW-13 cells cultured in soft agar. IL-1 increased colony growth in a dose-dependent manner and did not inhibit colony formation at the highest doses tested. Other purified human monocyte products (alpha-interferon, tumor necrosis factor, transforming growth factor beta, fibronectin) did not stimulate colony growth. Antibody to IL-1 only partially inhibited the ability of monocyte-conditioned medium to stimulate SW-13 colony growth. This antibody did, however, completely inhibit the ability of purified IL-1 to support the growth of SW-13 colonies in soft agar. IL-1 increased growth of quiescent SW-13 cells cultured in monolayers as assessed by tritiated thymidine incorporation assays. The results of this study indicate that IL-1 can enhance clonogenic growth of an epithelial cell line in soft agar. However, other uncharacterized activities in monocyte conditioned medium also promote colony growth. These studies add to an increasing body of evidence indicating that inflammatory products play a role in maintaining the transformed phenotype.
High-dose methotrexate therapy with leucovorin rescue: in vitro investigations on human osteosarcoma cell lines.	High-dose methotrexate (MTX) therapy with subsequent leucovorin (LV) rescue (HDMTX-LV) in the treatment of osteosarcoma is based on the assumption that this tumor has a deficient uptake system for MTX and reduced folates. To simulate features of HDMTX-LV therapy protocols in vitro, sensitive and MTX-resistant human osteosarcoma cell lines and a lymphoblastoid cell line were exposed to MTX and/or LV at various dosages and time schedules and the effects on DNA metabolism and on cell growth were evaluated. The data show that in osteosarcoma cells and in lymphoblasts the cytotoxic effects of 10(-6) M to 10(-7) M MTX can be substantially reversed by LV if the antidote is applied within the first 12 h of MTX exposure. The results are not consistent with the assumption mentioned above and should be taken into consideration when designing new therapeutic regimens. An alternative hypothesis for the efficacy of HDMTX-LV is discussed. It is concluded that HDMTX-LV therapy may be effective in the treatment of osteosarcoma, even when subpopulations of the tumor cells exhibit different mechanisms of resistance to MTX, such as elevated levels of dihydrofolate reductase or a deficient transport system for MTX, if high doses of MTX are applied long enough to ensure lethal intracellular MTX levels and low-dose LV schedules instituted after a long delay are used.
Production of hybridoma growth factor by human monocytes.	Human mononuclear leukocytes produce a growth factor (HGF) for hybridoma and plasmacytoma cells. HGF has recently been proven to be identical to IFN-beta 2, 26-kDa protein and BSF-2. HGF can be quantitated in a proliferation assay with the HGF-dependent hybridoma cell line B13.29. By selection of an extremely sensitive variant of this cell line, we were able to measure HGF production of single cells. Limiting dilution analysis of the producing cells in combination with size, density and adherence characteristics showed that HGF is produced by monocytes and not by lymphocytes. There was no need for the monocytes to be stimulated but the cells did require the presence of serum. This serum requirement could be met by purified bovine serum albumin, but not by other proteins like ovalbumin or human gamma-globulin. HGF production in vitro by monocytes starts after 2 h of incubation and is completed within 24 h.
Growth of human oligodendrocytes in vitro on extracellular matrix.	Based on the successful use of a basement membrane-like extracellular matrix (ECM) as a physiological substrate for the growth of adult rat oligodendrocytes, we have applied the system to oligodendroglia of human origin. ECM is excreted and deposited on a culture dish by endothelia cells. Glial cells isolated from fresh human brains by a Percoll density gradient were maintained on ECM for several weeks in vitro. Cells identified as oligodendrocytes by anti-galactocerebroside (GalC) could be transferred and replated on ECM-coated plates. In one case, GalC-positive cells isolated from a biopsy of an 8-year old girl were able to incorporate [3H]thymidine as revealed by autoradiography. ECM can be used successfully for the growth and in vitro maintenance of human oligodendrocytes.
Mutagenic potential of a 193-nm excimer laser on fibroblasts in tissue culture.	In response to concerns regarding possible DNA damage by far ultraviolet radiation during excimer laser corneal surgery, the mutagenic potential of an argon fluoride excimer laser (193 nm) on BALB/3T3 mouse fibroblasts grown in tissue culture was investigated. The cumulative incidence of anaplastic transformation after subablative radiant exposures from 3.5 mJ/cm2/pulse to 13.4 mJ/cm2/pulse was 3.6% of all cell cultures. The incidence of anaplastic transformation in nonirradiated controls was 4.2%. Transformation after exposure to x-ray radiation (60.9 rad) was 98.8%. The difference between the incidence of transformation of nonirradiated controls or excimer-treated cultures compared with x-ray radiation-treated cells was significant P less than 0.0001 (chi square test). In this standard cell line, 193-nm laser energy does not appear to have substantial mutagenic potential.
Scintillation counting as an in vitro method for assessing the pretherapeutic effectiveness of planned tumor chemotherapy in patients with ovarian cancer]	In vitro testing methods to obtain information about the proliferation of the tumour, which we want to treat by chemotherapy, have been vindicated by the biological individuality of ovarian cancer cells. The determination of the incorporation rate of 3H-thymidine in cells of ovarian cancer by scintillation counting may be recommended as a prognostic factor in regard of success of chemotherapy in patients with this disease.
The origin of the apparent synovial lining cell hyperplasia in rheumatoid arthritis: evidence for a deep stem cell.	The experimental model of inflammatory arthritis in the rabbit has been used to study the possible origin of the apparent synovial lining cell hyperplasia. A small amount of 3H-thymidine was injected into the joints and the fate of the labelled cells investigated by autoradiography. At times up to 24 h after the injection, most of the labelled cells occurred in the sub-lining region; this proportionality was reversed when the joints were sampled at later times. These results indicate that at least much of the increase of synovial lining cells may be derived from cells from deeper in the synovial tissue which move to the synovial surface.
Effects of concanavalin A, phytohemagglutinin, pokeweed mitogen, and lipopolysaccharide on the replication and immunoglobulin synthesis by canine peripheral blood lymphocytes in vitro.	Canine peripheral blood lymphocytes (cPBLs) were used to investigate the mitogenic effects of Con A (concanavalin A), LPS (lipopolysaccharide), PHA (phytohemagglutinin), and PWM (pokeweed mitogen) in vitro by measuring tritium-labeled thymidine [( 3H]thymidine) incorporation and immunoglobulin (Ig) secretion. An ELISA specific for canine IgG and IgM showed that cPBLs secreted significantly more IgG than IgM in response to mitogen concentrations from 30,000 to 0.03 ng/10(5) cells. The optimal stimulating dose of mitogen for lymphocyte response measured by IgG secretion was over a much narrower range of concentration than was the [3H]thymidine incorporation measured response. At a concanavalin A dose where there was increased [3H]thymidine incorporation with a decrease in IgG secretion, it appeared that an active suppression of the IgG response was induced.
Dose and time related effects of T-2 toxin on mitogenic response of murine splenic cells in vitro.	The effects of T-2 toxin in vitro on murine splenic cells were investigated. Cells from syngeneic male NFS/N mice were cultured with three concentrations of either lipopolysaccharide (LPS), pokeweed mitogen (PWM), phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), or concanavalin A (Con A), for 48 h. T-2 toxin (10(-12)-10(-8)M) was added at the beginning or 24 h after initiation of the cultures. Exposure to T-2 toxin (10(-11)-10(-10)M) after 24 h increased 3H-thymidine uptake by splenic cells. Stimulation by PWM increased dramatically while the response to LPS was increased to a lesser extent in this system. Conversely, exposure to T-2 toxin decreased T-cell responses to both PHA and Con A. Exposing cells to T-2 toxin at the initiation of culture increased Con A stimulation; LPS and PWM responses decreased following 48 h exposure. When splenic cells were pre-treated for 60 or 90 min at 0 degrees C with 10(-9)M T-2 toxin the responses to both PWM and LPS increased. Increased 3H-thymidine uptake was also observed following 90 min exposure to T-2 toxin alone at either 0 or 37 degrees C. The increased PWM response and the mitogenic phenomenon observed when cells were exposed only to T-2 toxin were consistent with previously observed effects of in vivo T-2 toxin exposure.
Extraction of an erythrotropin-like factor from bovine serum albumin (Cohn fraction V).	Different batches of commercially available bovine serum albumin (Cohn fraction V) were tested in a serum-free medium for their ability to stimulate thymidine incorporation in erythroid cells of fetal bovine liver. All preparations stimulated thymidine incorporation. Crystallized, charcoal-treated, or fatty acid-free albumin had substantially lower thymidine incorporation-stimulating activities than the crude preparations. The albumin preparations also had a synergistic effect with respect to erythropoietin on erythroid cells from rat liver, a typical property of erythrotropins. One gram of one of the batches of Cohn fraction V was fractionated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The fraction with thymidine incorporation-stimulating activity had a similar elution position as erythrotropin isolated from fetal bovine serum. Further purification using reversed-phase HPLC in the presence of trifluoroacetic acid and heptafluorobutyric acid and gel permeation HPLC resulted in the isolation of a factor that is very similar to fetal bovine serum erythrotropin. It has practically the same specific activity as the purified fetal peptide in the rat liver bioassay. These results suggest that many of the beneficial effects of the albumin preparations added as supplement of serum-free tissue culture media may be due to the presence of erythrotropin-like factors.
Isolation of an autocrine growth factor from hepatoma HTC-SR cells.	A growth factor has been isolated from HTC-SR rat hepatoma tissue culture cells which specifically stimulates DNA synthesis and cell proliferation of the HTC cells that produce it. The factor can be isolated from HTC cell conditioned medium or from an HTC cell extract. This autocrine factor has been purified 640-fold from a postmicrosomal supernatant by successive steps, involving ethanol precipitation, heating at 80 degrees C for 10 min, chromatography on a DEAE Bio-Gel A column, and chromatography on a heparin-sepharose affinity column. The major peak of activity eluted from the heparin column migrates as a single band on SDS-PAGE with an apparent Mr of 60,000. The factor is resistant to acid, heat, and neuraminidase but sensitive to trypsin, papain, and protease. The autocrine nature of the factor is indicated by the finding that several other types of cells do not respond with increased DNA synthesis. Mouse L-cells, BHK cells, Novikoff hepatoma cells, hepatocytes in primary culture, and an epithelial-like rat liver-derived cell line (Clone 9) were tested, and none of the cells could be stimulated. Small amounts of the factor could be extracted from the Clone 9 cells, however. This material had the same physical and purification properties as the factor extracted from HTC cells, but it did not stimulate DNA synthesis in Clone 9 cells, only in HTC cells. Addition of the factor resulted in an almost immediate stimulation of DNA synthesis in a proliferating HTC cell population. When the factor was added together with [3H]thymidine for 2 h, a significant stimulation of DNA synthesis was observed, provided the addition was made between 18 and 48 h after the cells had been plated. Autoradiographic studies indicated that the factor both accelerates DNA synthesis in cells already making DNA and increases the number of cells entering the S period. The stimulation of DNA synthesis was completely inhibited by 10 mM hydroxyurea, whether the factor was present for 2, 24, or 48 h in the culture. A significant increase in cell number due to addition of the factor was also observed. This accelerated proliferation was detectable only after the cells had been in culture for at least 48 h with the factor present.
Enhanced synthesis of a Mr = 55,000 dalton peptide by senescent human fibroblasts.	The secretory protein profiles of early and late passage cultures of human fibroblasts were compared using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In comparison with early passage cell cultures (40-50% lifespan completed), late passage (greater than 80% of lifespan completed) cell cultures exhibited enhanced production of several peptides in the Mr range 55-60,000. One of those peptides had an apparent molecular weight of Mr = 55,000 and was constitutively present in the late passage cell conditioned medium. Late passage cell cultures synthesized the Mr = 55,000 peptide in the presence or absence of fetal bovine serum. Serum did not enhance its production by early passage cells. Further, production of the peptide was not induced in early passage cell cultures whose proliferation was arrested either by serum starvation or by contact inhibition. Pulse chase studies demonstrated that the peptide appears in the culture medium within 60 min of labeling. There was no evidence that it is derived via degradation of other proteins present either in early passage or late passage cell conditioned media. Further, the production of the 55,000 dalton peptide did not appear to be regulated by factors present in conditioned media. The peptide was detected in the conditioned media produced by late passage cultures of several different cell strains.
Cell killing and mutation to 6-thioguanine resistance after exposure to tritiated amino acids and tritiated thymidine in cultured mammalian cells (L5178Y).	Cell killing and mutation to 6-thioguanine resistance were studied in growing mouse leukemia cells in culture after exposure to tritiated amino acids and tritiated thymidine. These effects varied widely among the tritiated compounds tested, being greatest for tritiated thymidine followed by tritiated arginine and tritiated lysine, in that order, for a given concentration of 3H expressed in kBq/ml of 3H in the medium. The differences between each tritiated amino acid disappeared almost totally when the effects were compared on the basis of the absorbed dose to the cells. The effects of tritiated thymidine, however, remained more than twofold greater compared to other tritiated compounds. These results indicate the importance of determining the absorbed dose for assessment of the radiotoxicity of tritiated organic compounds. For an exceptional case (tritiated thymidine), contribution of a mechanism(s) other than beta irradiation should also be taken into account.
Organ culture of chicken cecum: morphologic and physiologic observations after 24 and 48 h of culture.	Cecum from chickens, 4 wk old, can best be maintained for 24 h in a serum-free organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium agar sheet at 25 degrees C. As determined by light microscopy as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy, mucosal architecture involving classic ultrastructure of chicken cecal mucosa was preserved. Protein content of cecal explants did not change up to 48 h of culture. DNA content of cecal explants did not change up to 24 h of culture but decreased significantly to two-thirds of control in 48 h of culture. Based on the morphologic and physiologic findings, it became evident that this organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium at 25 degrees C can be successfully used as an in vitro experimental model for as long as 24 h. The organ culture system could be a useful tool, from the structural integrity of ceca observed in this study, in investigating mucosal function and mucosal response to drugs, carcinogens, trophic factors, and pathogens.
High-performance liquid chromatography of amino acids, peptides and proteins. LXXIV. Separation of heparin-binding growth factors by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.	The separation of several immunologically related forms of the bovine brain basic heparin-binding growth factor by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography is described. With Bakerbond C4 reversed-phase columns, it is possible to resolve the 0.8-1.0 M sodium chloride and the 1.0-1.3 M sodium chloride components from the preceding heparin-Sepharose affinity chromatographic step in the purification procedure for these polypeptide mitogens into multiple active forms, all of which exhibit similar molecular weights and immunoreactivity with specific polyclonal antisera. Structural characterisation suggests that it is likely that these forms represent different stages in the post-translational processing of these polypeptide mitogens.
Effects of sperm protamine on human cervical epithelial cells and BHK 21 cells in vitro.	The addition of protamine, of both human and animal origin, to cultures of epithelial and fibroblastic cells has demonstrated that this component of sperm proteins may be capable of bringing about neoplastic transformation in vitro.
Glucocorticoids increase the length of the G2 and M phases of the HeLa S3 cell cycle.	Glucocorticoids increase the size and content of RNA and protein in randomly growing HeLa S3 cells; however, the rates of growth and macromolecule synthesis are not effected. In synchronized populations of HeLa S3 cells, addition of 10(-7) M dexamethasone at the G1/S border causes a 1 h delay in cell division. The length of the S phase, determined in synchronized cells by incorporation of [3H] thymidine into acid precipitable material, is unaffected by glucocorticoids. Thus, the 1 h prolongation occurs during the G2/M phases, when the cells are largest, and accounts for the increase in the size and content of RNA and protein. As with the induction of specific proteins, the events producing the G2 effects are initiated during the S phase of the cell cycle. Thus, the HeLa S3 cells contain a G2 regulatory point, which is influenced by glucocorticoids.
Chromosomal responses to ionizing radiation reminiscent of an adaptive response in cultured Chinese hamster cells.	When Chinese hamster V79 cells were internally exposed to low level chronic beta-rays from incorporated tritiated thymidine (3H-dThd), they showed an "adaptive" response to the induction of chromosomal damage by subsequent higher acute doses of gamma-rays. The yield of sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs) in the 3H-dThd pretreated cells was less than the yield induced by gamma-rays alone (protective effects), and the micronucleus frequency was less than the sum of the induced frequencies by 3H-dThd and gamma-rays separately (below-additivity effects). No adaptation to the micronucleus induction by gamma-rays was observed after the 3H-adapted cells had divided once and when 3-aminobenzamide (3AB) was given before the challenge doses. The cross-resistance study revealed that the 3H-adapted cells were resistant to SCE induction but not to the micronucleus inductions by the challenge doses of reactor radiations. The results suggest that the SCE adaptation and the micronucleus adaptation or clastogenic adaptation are probably caused by different, inducible adaptive repair pathways.
Effect of adriamycin on heart mitochondrial DNA.	The effect of Adriamycin on rat heart mitochondrial DNA was determined by initially labelling the DNA with [Me-14C]thymidine. Animals subsequently received intravenously either Adriamycin (10 mg/kg) or saline (1 ml/kg) (control group). Animals later received [Me-3H]thymidine and were killed at 6, 14, 24 and 36 h after this. The heart mitochondrial DNA was separated into the linear, non-supercoiled and supercoiled forms by ultracentrifugation on formamide/sucrose sedimentation gradients, and the amount of 14C and 3H incorporated into the various forms of the DNA was determined by scintillation counting. The data suggest that Adriamycin may cause breakage of the mitochondrial DNA helix, and that it slows the rate of mitochondrial DNA synthesis and the formation of complete DNA molecules. These experiments show that Adriamycin does interact with heart mitochondrial DNA, and may explain the cardiac dysfunction association with Adriamycin use.
A precursor-product relationship exists between oval cells and hepatocytes in rat liver.	Oval cell proliferation was induced in twelve male Fischer rats by administration of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) for 2 weeks and by performing partial hepatectomy one week after the beginning of 2-AAF administration. Albumin expression in liver was studied by using in situ hybridization of 3H-labeled rat albumin riboprobe. Radiolabeled thymidine was administered to a group of animals at day 6 after partial hepatectomy. The animals were killed at 0, 3, 7, 9, 11 and 13 days after partial hepatectomy. Both oval cells and basophilic hepatocytes showed a prominent expression of albumin, whereas albumin expression in acidophilic pre-existing hepatocytes was decreased. Oval cell nuclei were exclusively labeled one day after administration of [3H]thymidine. At day 9, 11 and 13 basophilic hepatocytes became labeled and the area occupied by these cells increased. This is the first demonstration of the transfer of radiolabeled thymidine from oval cells to newly formed hepatocytes in vivo. Thus the precursor-product relationship between oval cells and basophilic hepatocytes has been established.
Effects of tumor necrosis factor on bone formation in vitro.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) was studied for its effects on bone formation in cultured rat calvariae. TNF alpha at 100-100,000 U/ml stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA, an effect that appeared after 24 h of treatment and lasted 96 h. Transient (24-h) treatment with TNF alpha increased [3H]proline incorporation into type I collagen 24-72 h after the factor was removed; this effect was DNA synthesis dependent and blocked by hydroxyurea. Transient treatment with TNF alpha also increased alkaline phosphatase activity. In contrast, continuous treatment with TNF alpha for 48-96 h caused a marked inhibition on [3H]proline incorporation into type I collagen and alkaline phosphatase activity. TNF alpha caused a small increase in collagen degradation. Lymphotoxin had similar effects to those of TNF alpha. In conclusion, TNF alpha stimulates calvarial DNA synthesis which causes an increased number of collagen-synthesizing cells, but TNF alpha has a direct inhibitory effect on osteoblastic function.
Reduced DNA repair synthesis in healthy women having first degree relatives with breast cancer.	The DNA repair synthesis induced by UV-C irradiation was studied in unstimulated lymphocytes of 64 healthy women whose mothers, or sisters, or mothers and sisters had had breast cancer. For comparison we took 48 control women. As the parameter for the determination of DNA repair synthesis the incorporation of [3H]thymidine in the presence of 2 mM hydroxyurea was taken. The levels of [3H]thymidine incorporation were reduced by 19 of the 29 women whose mothers, in 17 of the 25 women whose sisters and in nine of the 10 women whose mothers and sisters had had breast cancer. By comparison a decreased level was found in only seven of the 48 control women. This difference between the controls and women having first degree relatives with breast cancer was significant in each group. In an earlier study a reduced DNA repair synthesis in breast cancer patients was established. The present findings suggest that DNA repair synthesis may be one of the factors involved in the genesis of breast cancer.
In vitro chemotherapy sensitivity testing of human ovarian carcinoma: comparison of optical colony counting and [3H]thymidine incorporation assays.	Optical colony counting was used for assessing drug sensitivity of 87 samples (from 51 primary solid tumors, 19 metastatic solid tumors, and 17 ascites fluids) from 83 common epithelial type ovarian carcinomas. The evaluability rate by the optical counting method was 26.4%. Fifty of these samples were also assessed by a tritiated thymidine ( [3H]dThd) incorporation assay (evaluability rate by incorporation assay, 74%). In the 12 cases fully evaluable by both methods, the correlation coefficients for regression of drug sensitivity data between the methods ranged from 0.503 to 0.976 (mean, 0.745); for the combined data of these cases, the correlation coefficient was 0.707. The new [3H]dThd assay appears useful and efficient for performing in vitro chemotherapy sensitivity testing of human ovarian cancer.
Reconstituted basement-membrane matrix modulates fibroblast activities in vitro.	Cellular growth and collagen biosynthesis were compared in dermal calf fibroblasts cultured on plastic or on a reconstituted basement membrane gel, termed matrigel. This matrix, extracted from Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm tumors, consists mainly of laminin, entactin, type IV collagen, and heparan sulfate proteoglycan. The multiplication rate of fibroblasts grown on matrigel was stimulated compared to that of monolayered cells cultured on plastic, and these cells formed multilayers after 4 days. Protein and collagen biosynthesis was reduced in fibroblasts cultured on matrigel. A higher proportion of the newly synthesized collagen (40%) was incorporated to the extracellular matrix in cultures grown on matrigel than in those grown on plastic (14%). Type III collagen was the preferential collagen type deposited on matrigel, and the ratio of type III:type I collagens secreted in the medium was also slightly higher in cultures grown on matrigel. Partially processed collagen was more abundant in fibroblasts grown on matrigel than in cells cultured on plastic. Finally, cells grown on matrigel exhibited a higher catabolic activity than cells grown on plastic. In this experimental model, the reconstituted basement-membrane matrix seems to influence the activities of fibroblasts significantly.
A trial of the in vitro sensitivity test of anti-cancer drugs using primary cultured urogenital cancer cells.	An in vitro chemosensitivity test was applied to clinical specimens of urogenital cancer tissues obtained at operation. Incorporation of 3H-leucine into primary cultured cells 24 h after treatment with cytotoxic drugs was used as an index for cell viability. Primary cell culture was performed using specimens obtained from 37 patients including 20 with transitional cell carcinoma, 15 with renal cell carcinoma and 2 with testicular cancer. Primary cell growth was achieved in 27 (73%) out of 37 specimens and 10 were tested for chemosensitivity. Each specimen of the tumor revealed different sensitivity to drugs, and results of quadruplicate tests for each specimen were identical. It was concluded that the present method of measuring incorporation of radioactivity using urogenital cancer cells primarily cultured in microtiter plate is practically applicable to an in vitro chemosensitivity test.
Amphotericin B: a biological response modifier in targeting against the salvage pathways.	Dipyridamole, a nucleoside transport inhibitor which blocks the rescue effect of exogenous nucleosides, is a compound of interest for use in combination with antimetabolites of de novo purine and pyrimidine biosynthesis. This study has provided evidence that the dipyridamole inhibitory effect on nucleoside incorporation varied markedly during the course of cell growth in culture. Human colon cancer HT-29 cells in lag and log phases were highly sensitive to the blocking action of dipyridamole on thymidine incorporation with IC50 values of 0.06 and 0.07 microM respectively. In contrast, stationary phase cells were comparatively insensitive to dipyridamole with an IC50 of 46 microM. Amphotericin B restored the sensitivity of stationary phase cells to dipyridamole, lowering the IC50 value for thymidine incorporation to 0.03 microM. A similar pattern was observed for cytidine incorporation. Amphotericin B also enhanced the growth inhibitory action of dipyridamole in stationary phase cells. The combination of amphotericin B and dipyridamole should be potentially useful in cancer chemotherapy.
Repair in the nuclear matrix of DNA damaged by benz(a)pyrene]	The confluent culture of hamster embryo cells was incubated with benzo(a)pyrene for 24 hours. Then the medium was replaced by maximal lacking both the serum and benzo(a)pyrene. The process of DNA repair was observed in four nuclear fractions according to two indexes: the disappearance of metabolites of benzo(a)pyrene covalently bound to DNA and the incorporation of 3H-thymidine to DNA in the period from I min to 72 hours. Hydroxyurea at the concentration of 5 mM was added 2-19 hours before 3H-thymidine. The highest concentration of benzo(a)pyrene metabolites was found in the DNA of nuclear matrix fraction throughout all the experiment. The initial concentration of 3H-thymidine right after its addition into the cell culture medium was the highest in DNA of nuclear matrix fraction and the lowest in DNA fraction soluble in the buffer with low ionic strength. Later on, the concentration of 3H-thymidine was decreased in matrix-bound fractions and increased in other fractions up to the total DNA level. The results suggest that the repair process requires joining of benzo(a)pyrene damaged DNA region to the nuclear matrix with the following reverse transition into the fraction where the fragment was initially located.
Cell kinetics as a prognostic tool in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma of the skin.	The 3H-thymidine labeling index (LI) was determined on 178 lesions, four of which were primary, from 129 patients with malignant melanoma. The overall analysis showed a wide variability of LI values, from 0.01% to 31.7%, with an exponential distribution and a median value of 8.0%. Similar median LI values were observed for the various metastatic sites, and no difference was found between patients who only had surgery and those who also received systemic therapy. Cell kinetics and patient age and sex were not related in terms of extent and type of nodal involvement. Conversely, a trend toward higher proliferative activity was observed in amelanotic (8.3%) than in melanotic (5.9%) lesions (P = 0.08). The follow-up study on a series of 48 Stage II patients has shown a higher probability of 2-year survival for patients with slowly proliferating tumors than for those with rapidly proliferating tumors (86.9% versus 40.4%, P = 0.054). Along with this finding, the absence of a relationship between cell kinetics and both the main host and tumor characteristics indicated that cell kinetics was a prognostic variable and could be an important tool in the evaluation of patients with metastatic melanoma.
Tritiated-thymidine labeling of rectal epithelial cells in 'non-prep' biopsies of individuals at increased risk for colonic neoplasia.	Recent measurements have shown increased proliferation of colonic epithelial cells in individuals at heightened risk for cancer of the large intestine. This biomarker has facilitated measurements of the effects of nutritional intervention in studies that are attempting to inhibit tumor development in high-risk individuals. In this study, further measurements were made of the proliferation of rectal epithelial cells, when biopsies were removed from mucosa that had not previously been disturbed by any tapwater or other enema preparations. Progressive increases were found in the numbers of [3H]dThd-labeled epithelial cells in rectal crypts, and in labeling index profiles, in patients having previous sporadic adenomas or colon cancer, compared to individuals who had not developed colonic neoplasms. The most quiescent proliferative equilibrium was found in individuals without previous colonic disease. Findings indicated that 'non-prep' rectal biopsies obtained from the most accessible region of the large intestine, show modifications in the biomarker of cell proliferation paralleling colon cancer risk.
Clinical studies on a new screening assay for anticancer agents using nude mice and isotopic evaluation.	A new screening assay for anticancer agents was established using an in vivo nude mouse model. Assessment of the chemosensitivity of individual human tumors was determined by [3H]thymidine incorporation by the treated tumors. Three hundred and thirty tumors derived from cancer patients were transplanted into nude mice s.c. and treated with anticancer agents. Mitomycin C, 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin were used in the present studies. In 270 of 330 cancers, chemosensitivity was evaluated by this method (evaluable rate, 81.8%). The rate of positive sensitivity against all tumors was 21.9% in mitomycin C, 12.2% in 5-fluorouracil, 27.4% in cyclophosphamide, and 23.6% in doxorubicin, respectively. The tumor sensitivity to anticancer agents varied according to the type of cancer. Retrospective and prospective clinical studies were performed to determine the usefulness of the nude mouse-isotope assay for the prediction of tumor sensitivity. The 24-month survival rates of 24 gastric cancer patients treated with tumor-sensitive agents was significantly higher than that of 28 patients treated with tumor-resistant agents. The end results after chemotherapy in far-advanced and inoperable terminal cases of gastrointestinal cancers was also investigated, prospectively. Out of 19 cases, the 50% survival time of 11 patients treated with tumor-sensitive agents was longer than that of eight patients treated with tumor-resistant agents. From prospective correlative studies carried out on 25 patients, this assay correlated with clinical responses (overall agreement, 76.0%; P less than 0.05) with specific agreements of sensitivity and resistance of 37.5 and 94.1%, respectively. From these results, it seems reasonable to conclude that nude mouse-isotope assay is a screening assay to identify appropriate agents for the treatment of patients with cancer. However, there is still a need to develop a better protocol in this assay, especially for antimetabolites, and to continue research in order to find more sufficient assays to predict clinical sensitivity to anticancer agents.
Exogenous GM1 ganglioside caused G1-arrest of human diploid fibroblasts. Flow cytometric studies.	Exogenous GM1 ganglioside (II3 NeuAc-Gg0se4-Cer) inhibited growth and DNA synthesis of human diploid fibroblasts, TIG-1 cells. We examined the effect of exogenous GM1 on their cell cycle traverse by flow cytometry. When the cells were partially synchronized by serum deprivation, addition of GM1 at the time of refeeding caused about 70% reduction of their reentry into S phase from the level observed in the control culture untreated with the ganglioside. However, the addition of GM1 6 h later caused only about 30% reduction of the reentry from the control level. These results suggest that the exogenous ganglioside blocks the cell cycle traverse in an early G1 period. This is consistent with the fact that GM1-treated cells showed a high level of histone H1(0) similar to that observed in G1-arrested cells in confluent culture.
Long-term persistence of nitrosamine-induced structural damage to heterochromatic DNA.	Different levels of damage and repair to eu- and heterochromatic DNA from the livers of rats receiving a dose of 10 mg/kg N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) were apparent. Preincorporated 3H-thymidine was lost rapidly from euchromatic DNA but persisted in the heterochromatic fraction. Persistent damage, determined as single-stranded regions binding to benzoylated DEAE-cellulose (BD-cellulose), was evident in heterochromatic DNA for up to three months. By subjecting rats treated with NDMA to partial hepatectomy, generation of single-stranded regions in the newly synthesized heterochromatic DNA could be demonstrated. Such structural defects were evident when hepatectomy was performed two months after administration of the carcinogen. These findings indicate that structural damage to nontranscribed DNA is one of the most persistent molecular lesions following exposure to nitrosamines.
Reevaluation of the evidence that an antibody to the insulin receptor is insulinmimetic without activating the protein tyrosine kinase activity of the receptor.	The immunoglobulin fraction of a polyclonal anti-insulin receptor antibody (B-10) derived from a patient with severe insulin resistance and acanthosis nigricans was tested for its ability to activate the protein kinase activity of the insulin receptor and to mimic insulin action in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing either wild type or kinase-deficient human insulin receptors. This antiserum had previously been reported to be insulinmimetic without activating the insulin receptor protein tyrosine kinase. Antibody B-10 bound to both wild type and mutant human insulin receptors, but it induced receptor down-regulation and stimulated hexose transport and thymidine incorporation into DNA only in cells expressing the wild type receptor. Furthermore, this antibody activated the kinase activity of the wild type insulin receptor in intact cells and in vitro. It is likely, therefore, that the biological activities of antibody B-10, like those of insulin, depend upon the protein tyrosine kinase activity of the insulin receptor.
Interaction of male and female sex hormones in cultured rat prostate.	The organ culture of the rat ventral prostate was chosen as a model to determine whether any of the estrogen effects in vivo on the prostate are direct and expressed at the hormone concentrations normally found in the male. During 2 weeks of culture, estradiol at the high concentration of 10(-5) M blocked the androgenic activation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. The inhibition was localized in epithelium. Protein content of testosterone-treated explants and the accumulation of prostatein in the medium were considerably decreased, indicating inhibition of secretion. Antiandrogenic effects were not seen in morphology of estrogen-treated explants. The lower concentrations (from 10(-9) M to 10(-6) M) of estradiol increased the volume density of epithelium from day 7 onwards. The height of epithelium was concomitantly increased. The volume density of epithelium as well as the percentage of acini with metaplastic changes were significantly increased. These epithelial changes were less pronounced in the presence of androgen, suggesting that physiological concentrations of androgen prevent the expression of estrogen action in the morphology of the prostate. A change in staining with peanut (PNA)- and wheat germ agglutinin (WGA)-lectins indicated defective secretory capacity in metaplastic epithelium. In spite of the increased protein content in the explants, no constant pattern of the changes in prostatein accumulation could be recorded. Although the concentrations of estrogen required to induce squamous metaplasia were still unphysiological, the occurrence of this abnormal differentiation of the prostatic epithelium suggests that the cooperative action of estrogen is involved in androgen-dependent normal epithelial growth and possibly also in promoting growth of prostatic neoplasia.
Rapid and complete degradation of thymidine by human peripheral blood platelets: implications for genotoxicity assays.	Small-scale washed cell preparations obtained by Percoll density-gradient fractionation of whole blood were used to study the metabolic fate of [3H]thymidine supplied to isolated human blood mononuclear cells and platelets incubated for up to 24 h in vitro. Two cell fractions were monitored: low molecular weight compounds which were soluble in Triton X-100 and TCA were investigated by thin-layer chromatography, and high molecular weight components, distinguished by their Triton and TCA insolubility, were examined by agarose-gel electrophoresis. Under the conditions used, greater than 99% of added [3H]thymidine was very rapidly degraded. Catabolites were recovered in the Triton-soluble (cytoplasmic) fraction and the extracellular medium. A negligible proportion of added label was associated with Triton- and TCA-insoluble cell fractions. These results confirm and clarify previous data and have important implications for genotoxicity tests which employ in vitro leukocyte cultures.
Diazepam inhibits proliferation of the mouse spleen lymphocytes in vitro.	The effects of diazepam (1-100 microM) on the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA of the mouse spleen lymphocytes in vitro have been investigated. A dose-dependent inhibition of lymphocyte DNA synthesis has been found. A 70% inhibition occurred with 100 microM diazepam concentration.
Amitotic neuroblastoma cells used for neural implants in monkeys.	The potential utility of cultured neuroblastoma cells as donor tissue for neutral implants into the mammalian brain has been examined. Cells from a human neuroblastoma cell line, IMR-32, were labeled with [3H]thymidine and chemically rendered amitotic. These differentiated IMR-32 cells were grafted into the hippocampi of five adult African Green monkeys, and graft survival was evaluated for up to 270 days after transplantation. Autoradiographically labeled grafted cells were identified in four animals. Processes from grafted cells could be followed for distances of up to 150 micrometers into the host brain. No evidence for neoplastic growth of the transplant was found. Thus, grafted neuroblastoma cells can survive for prolonged periods in the primate brain and may serve as a practical source of donor tissue for neural implants.
DNA synthesis of adult mammalian cardiac muscle cells in long-term culture.	Adult rat cardiac ventricular muscle cells were isolated and cultured in monolayer for 30-45 days. Most of the cardiac muscle cells undergo external and internal structural alterations, resembling embryonic/neonatal cardiac muscle cells in culture (Nag and Cheng, 1981; Nag et al., 1983). These cultured cells underwent DNA synthesis and mitosis as revealed by autoradiography studies that involved the exposure of the cells to [3H]-thymidine for 24 hr prior to the termination of the culture at selected intervals. During the first week of culture, cardiac muscle cells showed less than 5% labeled cells. The labeling index of myocytes attained a peak in the second week of culture, exhibiting approximately 23% labeled cells. The labeling indices of cardiac muscle cells declined over the period of 30 days of culture. During the end of the incubation period, approximately 4% of the myocytes were labeled. When the extent of the total cell population involved in DNA synthesis was examined by exposing the cells to [3H]-thymidine continuously for long periods of time, it was observed that approximately 26% of the cardiac muscle cells regained the capacity for DNA synthesis during 1-10 days of culture. From day 1 to day 14, approximately 29% of the total muscle cell population was labeled. When the cells were exposed to the radioactive isotope continuously for 30 days, approximately 31% of the cells incorporated radioactive isotope, showing their capacity for DNA synthesis. Approximately 90% of the cardiac muscle cells in long-term culture contained more than one nucleus. The nuclei were often observed in multiples of two. Labeled mitotic apparatus was observed in cardiac myocytes, indicating the replication of DNA, followed by karyokinesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vitro chemosensitivity of J-82 human bladder cancer cells.	While chemotherapy offers a valuable adjunct to surgery in the management of intravesical bladder cancer, an accurate in vitro predictive test for chemosensitivity has yet to be developed. Drug sensitivity of the human bladder cancer cell line J-82 was assessed using monolayer, stem cell and [3H]thymidine incorporation assays. The 72-h monolayer assay provided a rapid reflection of in vitro drug sensitivity and when combined with the labeling index the results generally paralleled those obtained with the soft agar stem cell assay without the associated large commitment of time and labor. It is suggested that 72-h monolayer assay alone or in combination with [3H]thymidine labeling index may offer valuable insight into the chemotherapeutic response of bladder tumors.
The microvascular response to growth factors in the hamster cheek pouch.	Implicit in attempts to characterize and purify biologically active factors is the premise that the bioassay system employed will show a progressive increase in the response as the concentration of the responsible factor increases. We employed the hamster cheek pouch to assay the neovascularization potential of growth factors, including endothelial cell growth supplement (ECGS), epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Each growth factor was applied to the system in graded concentration and two approaches used to assess neovascularization: first, direct serial inspection of the cheek pouches at 40 power; second, tritiated thymidine incorporation into endothelial cells, assessed by radioautography. PDGF induced a dose-related increase in neovascularization, with a threshold dose of 17.5 micrograms/ml and a peak, 56% response, at a PDGF concentration of 175 micrograms/ml. Progressive increases in PDGF concentration, thereafter, induced progressive reductions in the neovascularization rate. Under some conditions optimal bioassay requires serial dilutions of the assay material over a wide range.
Inverse relationship between megakaryocyte buoyant density and maturity.	We examined the relationship between rat megakaryocyte buoyant density and maturation stage in continuous Percoll density gradients. An average of 88% of megakaryocytes had buoyant densities less than 1.054 g/ml. There was an inverse relationship between megakaryocyte buoyant density and maturation. Morphologically mature forms comprised 90% of the megakaryocytes with buoyant densities of 1.030-1.033 g/ml. In contrast, immature morphology was present in three-quarters of megakaryocytes with buoyant densities of 1.042-1.046 g/ml. These morphological findings were confirmed by [3H]thymidine labelling studies. Cell viability assessed by trypan blue exclusion was highest among more dense megakaryocytes of which the majority were immature. The lowest trypan blue exclusion was found in the less dense, predominantly mature megakaryocytes indicating that these cells are more susceptible to membrane damage during marrow suspension. Megakaryocyte DNA content distributions and platelet antigen levels, determined by two-colour flow cytometry, were also related to megakaryocyte density; the more dense megakaryocytes showed an approximately two-fold higher proportion of 8N cells and less platelet antibody binding than did less dense megakaryocytes. These studies suggest that megakaryocytes can be fractionated according to their buoyant densities into immature and mature populations suitable for molecular studies of differentiation.
Analysis of the G1 arrest position of senescent WI38 cells by quinacrine dihydrochloride nuclear fluorescence. Evidence for a late G1 arrest.	Senescence of the human diploid fibroblast-like cell line, WI38, is characterized by a loss of proliferative activity and an arrest of cells with a 2C DNA content (G1 or G0). To examine the specific region within G1 in which senescent cells arrest, senescent cells were stained with quinacrine dihydrochloride (QDH) and their nuclear fluorescence was compared with that of young cultures arrested in early and late G1 by serum deprivation and hydroxyurea exposure, respectively. Release of these G1-arrested young cultures from their blocking conditions and timing the kinetics of their entry into the S phase by autoradiographic detection of [3H]thymidine incorporation revealed that serum-deprived cells entered the S phase within 15-18 h, whereas hydroxyurea-exposed cells entered the S phase within 1.5 h, thus confirming their relative G1-arrest positions. QDH-stained, serum-deprived and hydroxyurea-exposed young cells exhibited relative nuclear fluorescence intensities of 51.7 and 23.9, respectively. Senescent cells exhibited a relative nuclear fluorescence intensity of 17.4, closely resembling the fluorescence of young cultures arrested in late G1 by hydroxyurea exposure. These data support the concept that senescent cells are arrested from further progression in the cell cycle in late G1.
Developmental changes in isoactin expression in rat aortic smooth muscle cells in vivo. Relationship between growth and cytodifferentiation.	There is an inverse relationship between cellular proliferation and smooth muscle alpha-isoactin expression in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) (Owens, G.K., Loeb, A., Gordon, D., and Thompson, M.M. (1986) J. Cell Biol. 102, 343-352). In the present studies, changes in isoactin expression were studied during developmental growth of rat aortic SMCs (ages 1-180 days) to better understand interrelationships between growth and cytodifferentiation in these cells in vivo. Actin expression (i.e. content and synthesis) was evaluated by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and using isoactin-specific antibodies. The major actin present in cells from newborn rats was nonmuscle beta-actin (56% of total actin), whereas cells from adult animals contained principally smooth muscle alpha-actin (Sm-alpha-actin) (76% of total actin). Increases in Sm-alpha-actin content with increasing age were due, in part, to an increase in Sm-alpha-actin synthesis. However, in SMCs from 90- and 180-day-old rats, the fractional content of Sm-alpha-actin exceeded its fractional synthesis at a time when total Sm-alpha-actin content was increasing. This suggests that Sm-alpha-actin turns over more slowly in mature animals. Decreases in the frequency of SMCs undergoing DNA synthesis with age could not account for increases in Sm-alpha-actin expression with age. However, combined immunocytological and [3H]thymidine autoradiographic studies demonstrated that nearly 50% of the medial derived cells from newborn rat aortas did not show detectable staining with a monoclonal antibody to smooth muscle-specific isoactins, and the replicative frequency was much higher in these cells than in cells that contained Sm-alpha-isoactins. Taken together, the results of the present studies and previous studies in cultured SMCs support the hypothesis that cessation of proliferation during development is associated with the induction of Sm-alpha-actin expression, but that factors other than cellular growth state play an important role in determining the level of Sm-alpha-actin expression in fully differentiated SMCs.
Partial purification, characterization, and assay of a slightly acidic insulin-like peptide (ILAs) from human plasma.	An insulin radioreceptor assay (RRA) using human placental microsomal membranes was used to measure insulin-like activity (ILA) extracted from human plasma concentrates (Cohn fraction IV-4) by acid ethanol. The soluble activity (ILAs), chromatographed on Sephadex G-75 in 1 M acetic acid, migrated as a small molecule (fractional elution volume, 0.56) ahead of insulin (fractional elution volume, 0.70), whereas at neutral pH, ILAs migrated as a large molecular weight species. The ILAs peak from acid gel filtration on Sephadex was further purified by chromatography on carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC). The ILAs peak from both Sephadex and CMC diluted parallel to the porcine insulin standard in the insulin RRA and was totally unreactive in an insulin RIA. The CMC-purified material was iodinated and purified by binding to and elution from human placental membranes. The binding of [125I]ILAs to human placental membranes was inhibited only minimally by insulin and proinsulin and not at all by epidermal growth factor, nerve growth factor, glucagon, or lactogenic hormones, including human growth hormone. Multiplication-stimulating activity (MSA) inhibited in a manner parallel to ILAs. A Scatchard plot of the binding data was nonlinear. Sephadex ILAs was subjected to isoelectric focusing. The fractions assayed in both insulin and ILAs RRAs yielded comparable results. Peaks of ILA were observed at pHs 5.3, 6.6, and 8.4. When CMC-ILA was subjected to isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide, a single peak of activity migrating between pH 6.2-6.8 was seen. [125I]ILAs focused at exactly the same pH. Electrophoresis of CMC-ILAs in acid-urea revealed a sharp peak of activity migrating with one of the five protein bands seen after staining. Again, [125I]ILAs comigrated with unlabeled ILAs. The molecular weight of ILAs, as determined on a calibrated Sephadex G-150 column at neutral pH, was 9,000-10,000 daltons. CMC-ILAs stimulated [14C]glucose incorporation into triglycerides of rat adipose tissue and augmented [3H]thymidine incorporation into human fibroblasts, chicken embryo fibroblasts, and BALB 3T3 cells as well as [35S]sulfate incorporation into macromolecules of rabbit chondrocyte culture medium. In summary, ILAs isolated on the basis of a RRA for insulin is a slightly acidic peptide with some of the biological activities expected of a somatomedin.
Effect of carcinogens on chicken atherosclerosis.	Weekly i.m. injections of the polycyclic hydrocarbon carcinogens, 7,12-dimethylbenz(a,h)anthracene (DMBA; 25 mg/kg/injection) and benzo(a)pyrene (50 mg/kg/injection) were given for a period of up to 22 weeks to chickens (SC strain) beginning at age 4 weeks. Atherosclerotic lesions of the abdominal aorta occurred more frequently and were larger in the DMBA- and benzo(a)pyrene-treated birds than in controls. These lesions were proliferative in character as indicated by a higher [3H]thymidine autoradiographic labeling index compared to the underlying medial cells of the aorta. Measurements of serum cholesterol in DMBA-treated birds showed no differences from controls. Although both carcinogens accelerated the development of atherosclerotic plaques, DMBA was more potent than benzo(a)pyrene.
Responsiveness of rabbit spleen and appendix cells to bacterial mitogens.	Rabbit spleen and appendix cells were used to test the mitogenic activity of a commercial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) preparation from Salmonella typhimurium (Difco), a preparation extracted from it, and cell wall preparations from smooth (45/0) and rough (45/20) strains of Brucella abortus. On the basis of [3H]thymidine incorporation ratios (E/C), that is, the incorporation rate among cells treated with the mitogen relative to that of untreated cells, the extracted LPS and both Brucella cell wall preparations, but not the commercial LPS were potent mitogens for rabbit spleen cells. By the same criterion, only the Brucella cell wall preparation produced a significant, but minimally so, response among appendix cells. The weak responsiveness of appendix cells may be more apparent than real, however, and may not imply a difference in intrinsic susceptibility to mitogens by these two populations, because unstimulated appendix cells incorporated thymidine at 10 times the rate of unstimulated spleen cells. Appendix cells, then, may not be susceptible to further stimulation, even by active mitogens. Therefore, the significance of E/C ratios may be equivocal when materials are assayed for mitogenic activity on lymphoid populations whose basal activity is relatively high.
Structure and biological function of human IgD. IX. Anti-IgD activation of human lymphocytes.	Human peripheral lymphocytes were stimulated to incorporate tritiated thymidine when cultured with anti-sigma. The stimulation of lymphocytes by anti-sigma inversely correlates to PHA-induced lymphocyte transformation. In addition, lymphocytes from individuals with low serum IgD levels exhibited a significant response to anti-sigma, whereas, those with normal or slightly elevated levels of serum IgD showed minimal stimulation. This study is the first to provide evidence that cell surface IgD may regulate metabolic functions of lymphocytes and is consistent with the idea that IgD is a 'triggering' receptor.
Chromosomal basis of dosage compensation in Drosophila. IX. Cellular autonomy of the faster replication of the X chromosome in haplo-X cells of Drosophila melanogaster and synchronous initiation.	[(3)H]Thymidine labeling patterns have been examined in gynandric mosaic salivary glands of drosophila melanogaster. The Ring-X stock, R(1) w(ve)/In(1)dl 49, l (1) J1 y w lz(s), was used for this purpose. 365 labeled XX2A and 40 labeled XO2A nuclei were obtained from a total of 624 nuclei in nine pairs of mosaic salivary glands. It was observed that in all but those nuclei which had DD, 1C, and 2C patterns, the X chromosome of the XO2A nuclei always had fewer sites labeled than the X chromosomes of the XX2A nuclei, for a given pattern of the autosomes in either sex. Such asynchronous labeling of the X chromosome in the XO2A (male) nuclei was observed regardless of the proportion of the XO2A cells (2.0-73.7 percent), in the mosaic glands. Moreover, while the frequency of [(3)H]thymidine labeling for all of the 39 replicating units except the two late replicating sites (3C and 11A) in the X chromosome of the XO2A nuclei, was consistently lower than in the X chromosome of the XX2A nuclei, the mean number of grains on the X chromosome was relatively (to autosomes) similar in both XX2A and XO2A cells. The results, therefore, suggest that, as in XY2A larval glands, the X chromosome in the XO2A cells also completes the replication earlier than autosomes and that the XO2A nuclei show cellular autonomy with respect to the early replication of the X chromosome, like its counterpart, RNA transcription. Absence of the asynchrony during the initial phase (DD-2C) further completes the replication earlier but that the rate of replication of its DNA is possibly faster, and (b) that there might be a common regulation with respect to the initiation of replication of different chromosomes in a genome.
Initial stage of transformation of permissive cells by simian virus 40: development of resistance to productive infection.	A quantitative assay has been used to determine the conditions leading to acquisition of resistance of permissive cells to lytic infection. The number of cell colonies surviving infection depends on the occurrence of several cell divisions after infection. High yields of resistant colonies were obtained when infected, confluent cultures were released from contact inhibition 10 to 14 hr after infection. Infection of actively growing cells produced similar results, but halting further division by seeding these growing cells on confluent monolayers prevented the development of colonies. Colony formation was a direct function of multiplicities lower than 5. An inverse killing response was observed with higher multiplicities, yet colonies were produced at a multiplicity of infection as high as 50. Brief exposure of input simian virus 40 to ultraviolet light stimulated colony formation. Irradiation of the virus for longer periods of time led to reduction of colony formation at a rate slower than the rate of inactivation of viral infectivity. It was concluded that resistance is induced by simian virus 40 and that this alteration represents one of the earliest detectable characteristics of the transformation of permissive cells.
Quantitative studies on the mixed lymphocyte interaction in rats. VI. Reactivity of lymphocytes from conventional and germfree rats to allogeneic and xenogeneic cell surface antigens.	The proliferative reactivity of lymphocytes from rat donors maintained under germfree or conventional conditions was examined in mixed lymphocyte cultures stimulated with allogeneic and xenogeneic cell surface antigens. The results show (a) that lymphocytes from conventionally maintained rats are less reactive to human, hamster, guinea pig, and mouse cell surface antigens than to the major H alloantigens, and (b) that lymphocytes from germfree rats display no demonstrable reactivity to xenogeneic cells, but are quantitatively normal in their response to allogenic cells. The conclusion drawn from these observations is that the circulating lymphocyte pool of an individual consists of a greater proportion of cells reactive to H alloantigens of other members of the same species than to the xenogeneic cellular antigens of members of other species and that this large number of cells is not generated by a mechanism involving immunization to cross-reactive environmental antigens.
Macrophage-melanoma cell heterokaryons. 3. The activation of macrophage DNA synthesis. Studies with inhibitors of protein synthesis and with synchronized melanoma cells.	Dormant macrophage nuclei initiate DNA synthesis 2-3 hr after fusion of macrophages with exponentially growing melanoma cells. Cycloheximide treatment (1-5 microg/ml) of heterokaryons during the preceding lag period inhibits the initiation of macrophage DNA synthesis, in a reversible fashion. Each type of cell was also treated with streptovitacin A, an irreversible inhibitor of protein synthesis. Pretreatment of the melanoma cells (0.5-2 microg/ml), 1 hr before fusion, inhibited the induction of macrophage DNA synthesis in heterokaryons, whereas pretreatment of macrophages (1-20 microg/ml) had no effect. Melanoma cell pretreatment reduced the incorporation of leucine-(3)H into the cytoplasm and nuclei of heterokaryons, whereas macrophage pretreatment had no effect. These experiments suggested that melanoma proteins played an important role in the initiation of macrophage DNA synthesis. The relationship between the melanoma cell cycle and macrophage DNA synthesis was studied with synchronous melanoma cells. If the melanoma cells were in S phase at the time of fusion, macrophage DNA synthesis occurred 2 hr later. However, the fusion of melanoma cells in G(1) delayed macrophage DNA synthesis until the melanoma nuclei had entered S. Experiments with actinomycin and cycloheximide showed that RNA and protein, essential to achieve DNA synthesis in the macrophage nucleus, were made during late G(1) as well as S. Melanoma cells and macrophages differ in their radiolabeled acid-soluble products after incubation in thymidine-(3)H. Thymidine taken up by the macrophage remained unphosphorylated, whereas it was recovered mainly as thymidine triphosphate from melanoma cells. These findings, as well as those reported previously, suggest that the melanoma cell provides the RNA, protein, and precursors which initiate macrophage DNA synthesis. In the absence of a requirement for new macrophage RNA and protein synthesis, other changes must be responsible for the 2 hr delay in DNA synthesis. These may involve physical changes in DNA, associated with swelling, as well as the transport of melanoma products into the macrophage nucleus.
Macrophage-melanocyte heterokaryons. II. The activation of macrophage DNA synthesis. Studies with inhibitors of RNA synthesis.	Mouse peritoneal macrophages, which do not synthesize DNA in vitro, were fused with melanocytes, a mouse cell strain which proliferates rapidly in vitro. DNA synthesis was induced in macrophage nuclei 2-3 hr after fusion and occurred irrespective of the number of macrophage nuclei present per melanocyte nucleus in each heterokaryon. 50-80% of macrophage nuclei initiated DNA synthesis in the 3-7 hr period after fusion. The activation of most 11-12-day chick red cell nuclei in melanocyte cytoplasm took longer than 10 hr. The lag before DNA synthesis may reflect the heterochromatin content of each nucleus. Studies with actinomycin showed that heterokaryon RNA synthesis was essential for subsequent macrophage DNA synthesis. This RNA was synthesized 1-4 hr before the DNA and was unlikely to be ribosomal RNA, since it was insensitive to <0.1 microg/ml actinomycin. Melanocytes and macrophages were treated before fusion with actinomycin and bromotubercidin to bring about a more selective inhibition of RNA synthesis. Macrophages pretreated for 1 hr with 5 microg/ml of actinomycin showed less than 20% of control RNA synthesis in the first 4 hr after fusion, but a normal activation of macrophage DNA synthesis. Pretreatment of melanocytes for 3-7 hr with 5 microg/ml bromotubercidin, a reversible inhibitor of RNA synthesis, prevented macrophage DNA synthesis without affecting macrophage RNA synthesis in the heterokaryons (81% of control). These studies showed that only melanocyte RNA synthesis was essential for the production of macrophage DNA. The exposure of one cell partner to actinomycin before fusion caused cross-toxicity of the untreated nucleus after fusion. Bromotubercidin, an adenosine analogue which is incorporated into RNA, did not give rise to such cross-toxicity after fusion. Once the macrophage nucleus becomes activated in the heterokaryon it becomes less sensitive to the action of actinomycin.
Expression of tyrosine aminotransferase activity in somatic-cell heterokaryons: evidence for negative control of enzyme expression.	Cells of the tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5)-inducible line, HTC, were fused with those of the BRL-62 line, which contain little or no enzyme and are unresponsive to the usual steroid inducers. Histochemical examination of the resulting heterokaryons within 24 hr of the fusion showed them to have little or no enzyme and to be unresponsive to steroids. These experiments disclose that the observed negative dominance is universal in the fused cells and that such dominance occurs promptly after fusion, when loss of chromosomes has not occurred.
Toxicity of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A for human macrophages.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A was toxi in vitro for human peripheral blood macrophages. Cytotoxicity, manifested by morphological evidence of cell death and inhibition of [3H]thymidine uptake, followed exposure to as little as 10 ng of exotoxin per ml for 1 h. In addition, phagocytosis of heat-killed Candida albicans by macrophages exposed to sublethal concentrations of exotoxin was impaired. This cytotoxicity was neutralizable with antiexotoxin serum.
Isolation and serial cultivation of rabbit skin epithelial cells.	A method to isolate and to serially cultivate rabbit skin epithelial cells from adult trunk skin has been developed. Using a collagen gel as substrate and trypsin and EDTA to dissociate cells, nonproliferative primary cultures of rabbit cells may be converted to proliferative populations, and at least 3 serial passages achieved. In the presence of large concentrations of methotrexate (up to 1000 microgram/ml), epithelial cells in primary culture show no decrease in their ability to attach, spread, or keratinize. Following conversion to proliferative populations by trypsin and EDTA low concentrations of methotrexate (1 microgram/ml) are strongly cytotoxic. When the incorporation of 32PO4(3-) and 3H-thymidine into DNA of proliferative and nonproliferative cells is compared, the incorporation of 32PO4(3-), but not that of 3H-thymidine, correlates with changes in cell number and DNA content. In both primary and serially cultivated cells, L-serine is required for optimal growth.
Induction of sporulation during synchronized chromosome replication in Bacillus subtilis.	Synchronous chromosome replication was obtained in a culture of Bacillus subtilis temperature-sensitive mutants growing in a rich medium. At intervals during this replication, samples of cells were transferred to a poor medium to induce sporulation. The results show that the capacity of B. subtilis for induced sporulation reaches a peak about 15 min after chromosome replication has begun. This capacity then declines rapidly, but can be restored by initiating a new round of deoxyribonucleic acid replication. The possibility is discussed that sporulation can be induced only when the chromosome replication fork is passing through a stage 0 operon and that this may be located in the cysA-sul(R) region of the chromosome.
Rosette-forming T lymphocytes and cell-mediated immunity in malnutrition.	The frequency of rosette-forming thymus-dependent lymphocytes was reduced in the peripheral blood of malnourished infants and children. The reduced frequency parallelled the impairment of delayed hypersensitivity response to 2, 4-dinitrochlorobenzene and decreased DNA synthesis by lymphocytes challenged with phytohaemagglutinin. The abnormalities were reversed on nutritional improvement.
Informational DNA synthesis distinguished from that of nuclear DNA by inhibitors of DNA synthesis.	With inhibitors of DNA synthesis used in the presence of ethidium bromide, it has been possible to distinguish between synthesis of informational DNA (I-DNA) and that of nuclear DNA. Hydroxyurea depresses I-DNA synthesis preferentially but does not affect DNA transport between cell compartments. 5-Fluorodeoxyuridine and cytosine arabinoside reduce synthesis of I-DNA to a much lesser degree than that of nuclear DNA.
Effects of the recipient strain and ultraviolet irradiation on transduction kinetics of the penicillinase plasmid of Staphylococcus aureus.	When the penicillinase plasmid of Staphylococcus aureus PS 81(P(81))(T(81)) was transferred to its cured derivative of PS 81(N(P))(T(81)), there was a fivefold increase in the transduction frequency of penicillinase plasmid markers after ultraviolet (UV) irradiation of the phage instead of the expected decrease typical for plasmid-borne markers. These results were independent of the transducing phage, the donor, and the method of curing the recipient and were also obtained with a cured derivative of PS 80(PI(80)). With PS 52, a naturally occurring penicillin-sensitive strain, and a cured transductant of PS 52 as the recipients, typical plasmid kinetics were observed. The plasmid location of penicillinase plasmid markers in transductants was confirmed by their instability in ethidium bromide (EB). In a cross between isogenic plasmids (PI(258)penZ cad x PI(258)penI asa ero), transductants were doubly selected for cadmium and erythromycin resistances. There was a twofold increase in transduction frequency after UV irradiation of the transducing phage and an increase in the proportion of recombinant type transductants. CsCl-EB density centrifugation revealed that plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was present in PS 81(P(81))(N(T)) and its cured derivative [PS 81(N(P))(N(T))], but not in PS 52. Sucrose gradient analysis of plasmid DNA showed that the penicillinase plasmid of PS 81(P(81))(N(T)) was larger than the plasmid in its cured derivative. Thus, the cured derivative contains plasmid DNA which appears to recombine with the incoming plasmid, causing the rise in transduction frequency noted after UV irradiation of transducing phage.
Replication process of the parvovirus H-1. III. Factors affecting H-1 RF DNA synthesis.	Replication of the single-stranded DNA parvovirus H-1 involves the synthesis of a double-stranded DNA replicative form (RF). In this study, the metabolism of RF DNA was examined in parasynchronous hamster embryo cells. The initiation of RF DNA replication was found to occur late in S phase, as was the synthesis of the DNA upon which subsequent viral hemagglutinin synthesis is dependent. Evidence is presented which indicates that initiation of RF replication requires proteins synthesized in late S phase, but that concomittant protein synthesis is not required for the continuation of RF replication. The data also suggest a requirement for viral protein(s) for progeny strand synthesis. Incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BUdR) into viral DNA resulted in an "all-or-none" inhibition of viral hemagglutinin and viral antigen synthesis. BUdR inactivation of viral protein function was used to explore the time of synthesis of viral DNA serving as template for viral RNA synthesis and the effect of viral protein on RF replication and progeny strand synthesis. Results of this study suggest that parental RF DNA is synthesized shortly after infection, and that viral mRNA is transcribed from only a few copies of the viral genome in each cell. They also support the conclusion that viral protein is inhibitory to RF DNA replication. Density labeling of RF DNA with BUdR, allowing separation of viral strand DNA (V) from viral complementary strand (C), provided additional data in support of the above findings.
Mode of action of a bacteriocin from Serratia marcescens.	The effects of bacteriocin JF246, produced by Serratia marcescens, on the incorporation of labeled leucine and thymidine, the synthesis of beta-galactosidase, the active transport of labeled leucine and alpha-methyl-d-glucoside, and the cellular levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in Escherichia coli were studied. This bacteriocin strongly inhibited the incorporation of leucine and thymidine into protein and deoxyribonucleic acid, respectively, as well as the active transport of leucine. The accumulation of alpha-methyl-d-glucoside, which is mediated by a phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system, was not markedly inhibited. The level of ATP in bacteriocin-treated cells rapidly fell to 10 to 15% of the control value. However, the kinetics of inhibition of macromolecular synthesis by various levels of bacteriocin was not related to the kinetics of ATP decline.
Relationship between virus-induced cellular deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis and transformation by simian virus 40.	The fraction of cells in a confluent 3T3 cell monolayer induced by simian virus 40 infection to replicate deoxyribonucleic acid and divide corresponds to those cells which eventually become transformed. Virus-induced cells were partially separated from noninduced cells by sedimentation through Ficoll gradients. Three- to eightfold higher transformation frequencies were obtained with those cells that began to synthesize cellular deoxyribonucleic acid and divide shortly after simian virus 40 infection as compared to noninduced cells.
Effects of partial hepatectomy in rats on two transplantable hepatomas. Changes in weight and in synthesis of DNA and ferritin.	Partial hepatectomy in rats carrying Reuber H-139 and H-35 hepatomas is followed by rapid growth of these tumors. At comparable times after implantation, average wet weights of H-139 or H-35 hepatomas in partially hepatectomized rats were significantly higher than average wet weights of these tumors in control rats. In H-35 hepatomas growing subcutaneously, synthesis of DNA, as shown by incorporation of tritiated thymidine, was depressed 18 hours after a two-thirds hepatectomy in the host. Between 18 and 36 hours after partial hepatectomy, DNA synthesis rose steadily, with a maximum at about 36 hours. Incorporation of (14)C-leucine into ferritin (apoferritin) reached a maximum in liver and, to less extent, also in subcutaneous H-35 hepatomas, 48 hours after partial hepatectomy and returned to normal levels at 72 hours. The increase in wet weight of the tumors is most likely the result of an increase in rate of growth concomitant with the restoration of liver mass. The rise in synthesis of DNA and of ferritin in hepatoma cells after partial hepatectomy suggests that these hepatomas were affected by the same humoral factor or mechanism that stimulates cell division and protein synthesis in the liver immediately after partial hepatectomy.
Effect of beta-propiolactone inactivation of polyoma virus on viral functions.	Polyoma virus was inactivated by treatment with beta-propiolactone. T-antigen production, polyoma-RNA synthesis, induction of host DNA synthesis (measured by incorporation of labeled thymidine into the cell culture), and in vitro transforming ability were inactivated to a similar degree by various beta-propiolactone concentrations (0.25% beta-propiolactone reduced these functions approximately 96%), whereas plaque-forming ability and the ability of the virus to replicate its DNA and to synthesize capsid antigen were inactivated by a given concentration of beta-propiolactone to a much greater degree (0.25% beta-propiolactone led to a reduction of plaque-forming ability of over 8 logs). The significance of these data and their relationship to previously published experiments are discussed.
Altered protein metabolism in infection by the late tsB11 mutant of simian virus 40.	The DNA of the temperature-sensitive mutant tsB11 is replicated at the same rate as the DNA of wild-type virus in infection at the restrictive temperature. The progeny mutant DNA cannot be distinguished from wild-type DNA by gel electrophoresis and is assembled into a nucleoprotein complex with the same velocity sedimentation characteristics as the wild-type complex. Analysis of in vivo protein synthesis by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoprecipitation techniques demonstrated that the capsid components VP1, VP2, and VP3 of the mutant and wild-type virus are synthesized at a similar rate, but VP1 fails to accumulate within cells infected by tsB11. Furthermore, VP1 is located predominantly in the cytoplasmic rather than in the nuclear fraction of extracts from cells infected by the mutant. Immunofluorescent studies localized virion antigen within the nucleolus as well as the cytoplasm. The altered intracellular distribution and stability of VP1 suggest that it may be the mutant protein of tsB11. The synthesis of a 72,000 dalton protein is consistently induced in significant quantity in cells infected by tsB11 at the restrictive temperature. A protein of the same apparent molecular weight is present in smaller quantities in uninfected cells and is only slightly increased in quantity in cells infected by wild-type virus.
The appearance and disappearance of the post-transcriptional repressor of tyrosine aminotransferase synthesis during the HTC cell cycle.	The synthesis of the enzyme tyrosine aminotransferase in HTC cells (an established line of rat hepatoma cells) is inducible by glucocorticoid hormones only during the latter part of G1 phase and throughout S phase in the cell generation cycle. We have earlier shown that during the first few hours of G1 phase when the enzyme cannot be induced, its synthesis is constitutive, presumably using as template, preexisting messenger RNA. Our model for tyrosine aminotransferase gene regulation in eukaryotic cells entails a specific post-transcriptional repressor which is formed only during the periods in the cell cycle when tyrosine aminotransferase is inducible. This model predicts that during the noninducible period, G2, the tyrosine aminotransferase repressor would not be present and thus tyrosine aminotransferase synthesis would be constitutive. Data are presented which confirm this prediction in further support of the model.
Postnatal development of adipocyte cellularity in the normal rat.	It has been shown by several investigators that adipocyte number is stable in mature human beings and several species of rodents. Although the number of new cells appearing in the adipose depot can be measured histometrically and by Coulter counting of osmium-fixed cells, such methods do not distinguish between "lipid filling" of preexistent adipocytes and synthesis of new adipocytes. The experiments reported here using in vivo injection of [(3)H]thymidine show that synthesis of new adipocytes in the Sprague-Dawley rat continues after birth and ceases before sexual maturity. Furthermore, during the second and third postnatal weeks, a "bed" of preadipocytes is synthesized. Preadipocytes may take as long as 30 days to appear as mature adipocytes.
Mitochondrial DNA replication in sea urchin oocytes.	Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replicative intermediates from Strongylocentrotus purpuratus oocytes were isolated by ethidium bromide-CsCl density gradient centrifugation and examined by electron microscopy after formamide spreading. In some experiments, the mtDNA was radioactively labeled by exposing isolated oocytes to [(3)H]thymidine. Oocyte mtDNA replication appears to follow the displacement loop model outlined in mouse L cells. There are differences in detail. The frequency of D-loop DNA is much lower in oocytes, suggesting that the relative holding time at the D-loop stage is shorter. Duplex synthesis on the displaced strand occurs early and with multiple initiations. The frequency of totally duplex replicative forms, or Cairns' forms, is the highest reported for mtDNA. The differences may be related to the fact that oocyte mtDNA replication occurs in the absence of cell division and need not be coordinated with a cell cycle. Molecules with expanded D loops banded in the intermediate region between the lower and upper bands in an ethidium bromide-CsCl gradient, supporting the notion that displacement replication proceeds on a closed circular template which is subject to nicking-closing cycles. In mature sea urchin eggs, replicative forms are absent and virtually all the mtDNA is stored as clean circular duplexes. Some novel structural variants of superhelical circular DNA (molecules with denaturation loops and double branch-migrated replicative forms) are reported.
Stability of DNA in Purkinje cell nuclei of the mouse. An autoradiographic study.	Neurons of the mouse were labeled with [(3)H]thymidine during their prenatal period of proliferation. The (3)H activity of the Purkinje cell nuclei was then studied autoradiographically 8, 25, 55, and 90 days after birth. The measured grain number per nucleus decreased by about 14% between the 8th and 25th postnatal days and then remained constant up to 90 days. There was no significant decrease of the (3)H activity of the Purkinje cell nuclei after correction of the measured grain number per nucleus for increasing nuclear volume of the growing Purkinje cells and for the influence of [(3)H]beta self-absorption in the material of the sections. Injection of a high dose of [(3)H]thymidine into young adult mice did not result in (3)H labeling of either Purkinje or other neurons in other brain regions. The results agree with the concept of metabolic stability of nuclear DNA. "Metabolic" DNA could not be observed in these experiments.
Fetal brain growth: selective action by growth hormone.	Growth hormone was administered to pregnant rats maintained under dietary control, and fetal and placental growth and nutrition were examined. Growth hormone had a selective action on brain growth that could not be attributed to nutrient mobilization but suggested a trophic factor which is unique to the brain.
Long pyrimidine tracts of L-cell DNA: localization to repeated DNA.	Like HeLa DNA, L-cell DNA contains a significant number of unexpectedly long pyrimidine tracts. 1.3% of the thymidine residues of L-cell DNA are found in these long polypyrimidine tracts. Analysis of L-cell DNA fractions with different rates of reassociation indicates that polypyrimidine tracts are associated with "repeated" DNA. Longer pyrimidine tracts appear to have a higher repetition frequency than shorter tracts, and some may be repeated as many as 5 x 10(4) times in L-cell DNA.
The effects of arginine deficiency on lymphoma cells.	When L5178Y and L1210 mouse lymphosarcoma cells were incubated with rat or beef liver arginase there was up to 100% cell destruction in 24 hours. This was reversed specifically with arginine and partially with arginino-succinic acid, citrulline and ornithine. The concentration of arginine was critical; at 8 mol/l the cells remained viable and reversible inhibition could be shown; below this level cells died. L5178Y cells were grown in medium containing from 0 to 80 mol/l arginine for 24 hours then transferred to fresh medium for 24 hours. Viable cell counts and mitotic indices were determined, and cells were pulsed with (3)H-thymidine, (3)H-uridine, (14)C-leucine and (14)C-arginine at various times. Thymidine uptake was affected most and preceded parallel changes in viable cell numbers. It was concluded that arginine is required by these cells even in a "resting" state and despite some evidence for their capacity to utilize precursors, the tumour cells underwent rapid and extensive destruction when available arginine was severely depleted.
More precise mapping of the replication origin in Escherichia coli K-12.	The origin of replication in Escherichia coli K-12 was mapped by determining the rate of marker replication during a synchronous round of replication. Four isogenic strains were made lysogenic for lambdaind(-) and for phage Mu-1, with Mu-1 integrated into a different chromosomal location in each strain. Cultures were starved for amino acids to allow completion of chromosome replication cycles and then starved for thymine in the presence of amino acids, and a synchronous cycle of replication was initiated by the addition of thymine. Samples were exposed to radioactive thymidine at intervals, deoxyribonucleic acid was extracted, and the rate of marker replication was determined by deoxyribonucleic acid-deoxyribonucleic acid hybridization to filters containing Mu-1, lambda, and E. coli deoxyribonucleic acid. The results confirm that the origin of replication is near ilv. The travel times of the replication forks, calculated from the data obtained for cultures with doubling times of approximately 40 and 61 min, are 40 and 52 min, respectively.
Isolation and characterization of an Escherichia coli K-12 mutant with a temperature-sensitive recA- phenotype.	A mutation that causes a temperature-sensitive RecA(-) phenotype was identified in a derivative of a PolA(-) strain that failed to grow at high temperature. The mutant allele (recA200) was shown to be linked to cysC, conferred a sharply temperature-sensitive, ultraviolet-sensitive Rec(-) phenotype in the range 35 to 42 C, and in crosses failed to show complementation at 42 C with Hfr's that transferred recA(-). Double mutants that carried both recA200 and polA were examined for ability to grow and synthesize DNA at restrictive temperatures.
Residual thymidine incorporation in the presence of chloramphenicol in synchronous cultures of Escherichia coli B-r.	Escherichia coli B/r ATCC 12407 which grew synchronously with interdivision times of 45 and 85 min were exposed at intervals to chloramphenicol (200 mug/ml) and [(14)C]thymidine for short or long (residual) periods. The results suggested that the pattern of residual thymidine incorporation in 85-min cells yielded an estimate of the length of the D period rather than the time of initiation of chromosome replication.
Studies on mediator production by highly purified human T and B lymphocytes.	Highly purified populations of T and B lymphocytes obtained by affinity column separation were stimulated by antigen and their ability to produce two mediators, migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and lymphocyte mitogenic factor (LMF) was assessed. Both T- and B-cell populations made MIF; the production of MIF was antigen-specific using purified protein derivative of tuberculin, streptokinase-streptodornase, and Candida antigens. The MIF activity from both populations could not be attributed to antigen-antibody complexes as the inhibitory activity eluted from Sephadex G-100 columns in the same region corresponding to mol wt 23,000 daltons. Further studies indicate that the T cells producing MIF are proliferating cells whereas the B cells producing this mediator are not. In contrast, LMF was made only by T cells and not B cells when these populations were stimulated by antigen. The LMF induced the [(3)H]thymidine incorporation into both T and B cells obtained from donors lacking sensitivity to the antigens used to elicit the factor. Chromatographic studies indicate that LMF eluted from Sephadex G-100 in a fraction of mol wt 23,000 daltons where MIF is also found; however, since B cells produce MIF but not LMF, these two factors appear to be distinct from one another. Some of the implications of these findings are discussed. The explanation for the production or lack of production of MIF by lymphocytes obtained from patients with immunodeficiency disorders requires reinterpretation.
The DNA-delay mutants of bacteriophage T4.	Mutants of phage T4 defective in genes 39, 52, 58-61, and 60 (the DNA delay or DD genes) are characterized by a delay in phage DNA synthesis during infection of a nonpermissive Escherichia coli host. Amber (am) mutants defective in these genes yield burst sizes varying from 30 to 110 at 37 C in E. coli lacking an am suppressor. It was found that when DD am mutants are grown on a non-permissive host at 25 C, rather than at 37 C, phage yield is reduced on the average 61-fold. At 25 C incorporation of labeled thymidine into phage DNA is also reduced to 3 to 10% of wild-type levels. Mutants defective in the DD genes were found to promote increased recombination as well as increased base substitution and addition-deletion mutation. These observations indicate that the products of the DD genes are necessary for normal DNA synthesis. The multiplication of the DD am mutants on an Su(-) host at 37 C is about 50-fold inhibited if prior to infection the host cells were grown at 25 C. This suggests that a compensating host function allows multiplication of DD am mutants at 37 C in the Su(-) host, and that this function is active in cells grown at 37 C prior to infection, but is inactive when the prior growth is at 25 C. Further results are described which suggest that the products of genes 52, 60, and 39 as well as a host product interact with each other.
Ribosyl and deoxyribosyl transfer by bacterial enzyme systems.	The enzymatic transfer of ribose and deoxyribose residues in pyrimidine nucleosides to purines was catalyzed by cell-free extracts of various bacteria. Almost all the strains belonging to Enterobacteriaceae were capable of catalyzing the transfer reactions. The transfer activities were also detected among some bacterial strains of other families: Pseudomonadaceae, Corynebacteriaceae, Micrococcaceae, Bacteriaceae, and Bacillaceae. The rates of the transfer reactions were greatly enhanced in the presence of phosphate ion, and the participation of nucleoside phosphorylases in the reactions was suggested. Uridine phosphorylase, thymidine phosphorylase, and purine nucleoside phosphorylase were purified from cell-free extract of Aerobacter aerogenes IFO 3321. The ribosyl transfer from uridine to hypoxanthine was found to be catalyzed by the coupled reactions of uridine and purine nucleoside phosphorylases and the deoxyribosyl transfer from thymidine to hypoxanthine by the coupled reactions of thymidine and purine nucleoside phosphorylases.
Accumulation of a protein required for division during the cell cycle of Escherichia coli.	A heat-labile protein required for division accumulates during the duplication cycle of Escherichia coli. Its formation appears to commence shortly after the cell divides, and it reaches a maximal amount shortly before the next division. A plausible mechanism for timing cell division depends on building up the critical amount of this protein. Completion of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) replication is also necessary for division to occur, but it does not uniquely initiate division. The evidence for these conclusions comes from heat-shock experiments; heating to 45 C for 15 min delays division increasingly with the age of a cell. A heat shock given near the end of a cycle delays division for about 30 min, whereas at the beginning of the cycle it hardly affects division. The net result is synchronization of cell division. The effect of heat is increased in bacteria which have incorporated p-fluoro-phenylalanine into their proteins. When the incorporation is early and the heat shock is late in the cycle, division is delayed by about 30 min, indicating that the division protein is synthesized early even though its sensitivity is not observed until later. At any time in the cell cycle, heat shock simply delays total protein and DNA synthesis ((3)H-thymidine uptake) for approximately 14 min. DNA replication and cell division are thus discoordinated, since DNA replication is not synchronized by the treatment.
Studies with bacteriophage phi II. Events following infection of male and female derivatives of Escherichia coli K-12.	We studied the course of infection of the female-specific bacteriophage phiII in male and female cells isogenic except for the presence of the substituted sex factor, F'lac. Both male and female cells are killed by phiII; however, only limited phage replication occurs in male cells. Host macromolecular synthesis stops abruptly at 4 to 6 min after infection of male cells, and synthesis of phage components cannot be detected. Experiments with chloramphenicol indicate that phage deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) penetrates into male cells, since protein synthesis after infection is required to stop synthesis of DNA in males. Phage DNA becomes membrane-associated in both female and male cells. In male cells, parental phage DNA does not dissociate from the membrane during the latent period as is the case with females, indicating a block in phage DNA replication. Isolation of nonrestricting F'lac mutations indicates involvement of a specific episome product in phiII restriction.
Effects of coumarin, thiopurines, and pyronin Y on amplification of phleomycin-induced death and deoxyribonucleic acid breakdown in Escherichia coli.	Phleomycin (</=2 mug/ml) induces neither deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) breakdown nor cell death in stationary-phase Escherichia coli B cells, but the addition of 8 mm caffeine immediately initiates these changes in the same way as increasing the phleomycin concentration 10-fold. This phenomenon is termed "amplification" (6). Pyronin Y, a number of nontoxic thio- and mercaptopurines (of which the most active were 6,7- and 6,9-dimethyl-2-methylthiopurine), and coumarin have been found to be considerably more efficient amplifiers of phleomycin activity than caffeine. Thus 2 mm 6,7- and 6,9-dimethyl-2-methylthiopurine, 0.16 mm pyronin, and 4 mm coumarin killed 10 to 100 times more phleomycin-treated bacteria within 2 hr than 8 mm caffeine. As with caffeine, amplification of cell death by these compounds was accompanied by degradation of DNA to acid-soluble fragments. A number of compounds including 2,6-dichloropurine, 6-hydroxy-2-methylthiopurine, alpha-naphthol, beta-naphthol, naphthionic acid, and alpha-naphthol-4,8-disulphonic acid inhibited the action of phleomycin, if they were present in the cell suspension during phleomycin treatment, but some caused amplification if added subsequent to the phleomycin. Although no mutants resistant to >/=10 mug of phleomycin per ml were observed among 10(11)E. coli B cells screened, such mutants occurred with a frequency of 10(-6) to 10(-7) among cultures resistant to 1 to 2 mug of phleomycin per ml. These double mutants were cross-resistant to phleomycin plus caffeine. The amplifying compounds, though structurally dissimilar, shared the common characteristic of binding selectively to denatured DNA as measured by equilibrium dialysis methods. The implications of these observations in supporting a model of phleomycin amplification proposed previously (6) and their utility in providing a logic for developing a new class of antibiotics are discussed.
Temperature-sensitive recovery of a mutant of Escherichia coli K-12 irradiated with ultraviolet light.	URT-43 is a mutant of Escherichia coli K-12 which gives a much larger number of survivors when ultraviolet (UV)-irradiated bacteria are incubated on agar medium at 30 C than when they are incubated on the medium at 41 C, although in both cases the number of survivors is fewer than that given by its wild-type ancestor. The UV sensitivity of this mutant was found to be markedly influenced by the presence of a high concentration of NaCl or sucrose in the plating medium. Thus, when irradiated bacteria were plated on agar medium containing 2% NaCl or 0.5 m sucrose at 30 C, they exhibited a resistance similar to that of their wild-type ancestor. At 30 C, there was also an extensive recovery in liquid M9 medium supplemented with all of the nutrients required for growth and NaCl or sucrose. At 41 C, however, the recovery was greatly inhibited. Direct chemical analysis of thymine dimers has revealed that no significant amount of the dimer was released from deoxyribonucleic acid during the period of extensive recovery. It was concluded, therefore, that the temperature-sensitive recovery of URT-43 does not accompany excision of the bulk of pyrimidine dimers. To learn the gene function involved in the recovery, double mutants carrying an additional mutation either in a uvr or a rec gene have been investigated for their UV sensitivities and recovery in liquid medium. It was found that recA(-) and recB(-) derivatives retain the ability of undergoing an efficient recovery at a low temperature, whereas uvrB(-) and uvrC(-) derivatives have completely lost this ability. For these reasons, it was concluded that the mechanism responsible for the recovery of URT-43 involves the function controlled by the uvr genes. The results of photoreactivation suggested that most of the entities dealt with during recovery were pyrimidine dimers.
Mitomycin C and temperature induction of colicin B in the absence of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis.	An Escherichia coli K-12 strain and its mutant, temperature-sensitive in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis, were used as hosts for two different ColB factors (ColB3-K166 and ColB4-K98). Induction of either colicin occurred in both hosts in the presence of mitomycin C at 42 C. Induction of the temperature-sensitive colicinogenic hosts also occurred without mitomycin C at 42 C at which temperature no DNA synthesis was observed. Colicin synthesis was a nonlethal event in ColB4-K98(+) cultures, whereas in cultures of ColB3-K166(+) induction led to death of a large fraction of the population.
Properties of bacteriophage T4 mutants defective in gene 30 (deoxyribonucleic acid ligase) and the rII gene.	In Escherichia coli K-12 strains infected with phage T4 which is defective in gene 30 [deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) ligase] and in the rII gene (product unknown), near normal levels of DNA and viable phage were produced. Growth of such T4 ligase-rII double mutants was less efficient in E. coli B strains which show the "rapidlysis" phenotype of rII mutations. In pulse-chase experiments coupled with temperature shifts and with inhibition of DNA synthesis, it was observed that DNA synthesized by gene 30-defective phage is more susceptible to breakdown in vivo when the phage is carrying a wild-type rII gene. Breakdown was delayed or inhibited by continued DNA synthesis. Mutations of the rII gene decreased but did not completely abolish the breakdown. T4 ligase-rII double mutants had normal sensitivity to ultraviolet irradiation.
Studies on antibody-producing cells. 3. Identification of young plaque-forming cells by thymidine- 3 H labeling.	Mice injected with sheep RBC and then, 4 days later with thymidine-(3)H, were sacrificed on the day of thymidine-(3)H injection or 1 or 2 days later. Hemolytic antibody plaque preparations were made of cells from the draining lymph nodes by a thin-plating procedure permitting collection of isolated PFC for electron microscopic examination and radioautography. Of cells obtained on the day of thymidine-(3)H injections, 65% of the labeled PFC were in the lymphocytic category, in comparison with 13% found previously in the entire population of such cells. The remaining 35% were plasmablasts in early stages of differentiation. Cells obtained 1 day after the thymidine-(3)H injections showed a shift to a majority of labeled cells in the plasmacytic category. Also, the plasmablasts were substantially more differentiated than those of the previous day, and some mature plasma cells were now seen. The labeled PFC obtained on day 2 gave no indication of further differentiation. Cells of rabbit lymph nodes labeled in vitro with thymidine-(3)H showed a range of labeled PFC. The majority were in the plasmacytic category, including some mature plasma cells. The data from the experiments with in vivo labeling suggest a direct differentiation from antibody-synthesizing lymphocytes to plasma cells. Further, the in vivo experiments indicated that differentiation from nascent lymphocyte to plasma cell could be essentially completed within 1 day.
Replication and recombination in ligase-deficient rII bacteriophage T4D.	Deoxyribonucleic acid replication and genetic recombination were investigated after infection of Escherichia coli with ligase-deficient rII bacteriophage T4D. The major observations are: (i) deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis is discontinuous, (ii) the discontinuities are more slowly repaired than in wild-type infection, (iii) host ligase is required for viability, and (iv) genetic recombination is increased.
Partial suppression of bacteriophage T4 ligase mutations by T4 endonuclease II deficiency: role of host ligase.	Endonuclease II-deficient, ligase-deficient double mutants of phage T4 induce considerably more deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis after infection of Escherichia coli B than does the ligase-deficient single mutant. Furthermore, the double mutant can replicate 10 to 15% as well as wild-type T4, whereas the single mutant fails to replicate. When the E. coli host is also deficient in ligase, the double mutant resembles the single mutant. The results indicate that host ligase can substitute for phage ligase when the host DNA is not attacked by the phage-induced endonuclease II.
In vitro aggregation of mixed embryonic kidney and nerve cells. Influence on macromolecular synthesis.	The possible role of nerve on growth of embryonic parenchymal organs such as kidney was explored by measuring macromolecular synthesis (DNA, RNA, and protein and three enzymes) in aggregates of mixed suspensions of cells from dissociated chick embryo kidney and nerve tissue. One and one-half to threefold increments in net synthesis of the three different types of macromolecules were observed in the mixed aggregates of kidney and nerve cells as compared with those of single organs or mixtures of kidney with nonneural cells. The addition of nerve-growth factor (NGF) did not significantly affect the results. Increased incorporation of label was paralleled by increases in chemically measured DNA and protein, suggesting an increase in growth in the mixed kidney-nerve aggregates compared with those of single tissues. Measurements of survival rate did not indicate increased cell stability in the mixed aggregates. The activities of three enzymes, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, and lactic dehydrogenase, were also enhanced two to four times in cultures of kidney plus nerve cells. Morphologic studies indicated a high degree of reorganization of tubular structures within the reaggregates of kidney cells alone or in those mixed with nerve. In addition, radioautographs of thymidine-(3)H-labeled cells in the aggregates showed a high level of DNA synthesis in the reformed tubular cells. Electron micrographs revealed the presence of large numbers of nerve fibers containing microtubules in the mixed cell aggregates. The data suggest a significant role for nerve in the growth processes of embryonic parenchymal organs.
Effect of iododeoxyuridine upon conjugation and the fate of transferred deoxyribonucleic acid in Escherichia coli K-12.	The incorporation of 5-iododeoxyuridine (IUdR) into Escherichia coli K-12 deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) has been found to decrease significantly the viability of female strains A288 and JC411(r) but to have only minor effect upon their ability to act as conjugational recipients and to perform recombination after conjugation. In contrast, IUdR incorporation into male strain HfrC appears to interfere with both chromosome transfer and genetic recombination. By using IUdR to densitylabel female DNA, and carrying out large-scale matings with (3)H-thymidine-labeled male cells, we examined the fate of transferred DNA. After a 30-min mating, the T6-sensitive male cells were lysed, and the DNA of the merozygotes and remaining female cells was isolated. Initial centrifugation of this DNA in a CsCl gradient showed that the male and female DNA species were associated. The nature of this association of the parental DNA species was determined by formaldehyde denaturation followed by CsCl centrifugation. Denaturation of DNA isolated immediately after T6 lysis gave a peak of radioactivity banding at the density of light single-stranded DNA. However, denaturation of DNA isolated after T6 lysis and dilution of the cells into fresh medium, exhibited peaks of radioactivity banding at positions corresponding to single-stranded, density-labeled DNA. The results indicate that recombination after conjugation in E. coli takes place by a breakage-and-reunion mechanism. The process of recombination can be separated into two stages. In the first stage, the donor and recipient DNA molecules become associated. The second stage consists of the formation of phosphodiester bonds between the donor and recipient segments comprising the recombinant molecule.
Role of gene 46 in bacteriophage T4 deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis.	In an attempt to establish whether Escherichia coli B infected with N130 (an amber mutant defective in gene 46) is recombination-deficient, the postinfection fate of (14)C-labeled N130 parental deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was followed, its amount in complex with the host cell membrane being determined in sucrose gradients after mild lysis of the infected cells. The parental DNA was found to undergo gradual detachment from the membrane during infection. Pulse-chase experiments similarly showed that newly synthesized DNA is normally attached to the host cell membrane and is detached by endonucleolytic breakage at a late stage of infection. The conclusion is that only attached DNA molecules are replicated by membrane-bound replicase, whereas those detached by endonucleolytic breakage are not. It thus seems that the gene 46 product controls the activity of a nuclease whose main function is recombination of DNA nicked by endonuclease, thereby attaching it to the host cell membrane. The rate of T4 DNA synthesis is apparently governed by the efficiency of recombination. Supporting evidence was found in experiments with the double mutant N130 x N134 (genes 46, 33).
Bacterial cell division regulation: physiological effects of crystal violet on Escherichia coli lon +  and lon -  strains.	The Escherichia coli lon(-) mutants apparently are defective in the ability to recommence cell division after temporary periods of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis inhibition. They are also more susceptible to cell division inhibition by the basic dye, crystal violet (CV), than are lon(+) strains. In enriched broth, the lon(+) strain continued to grow and divide in the presence of CV, but lon(-) cell division was inhibited and filamentous growth resulted. In a supplemented minimal medium containing CV, lon(-) cell division was only temporarily inhibited. There was no detectable specific effect on DNA synthesis, although CV slowed the rate of mass increase in both media. Trichloroacetic acid-insoluble lipid synthesis was preferentially inhibited in both lon(+) and lon(-) strains. In CV-containing enriched broth, diaminopimelic acid incorporation into trichloroacetic acid-insoluble compounds occurred at a rate greater than the rate of mass increase in both lon(+) and lon(-) strains. In a CV-containing supplemented minimal medium, diaminopimelic acid was incorporated to a greater extent by lon(-) cells than by lon(+) cells.
Properties and mode of action of a bactericidal compound (=methylglyoxal) produced by a mutant of Escherichia coli.	A lethal product (BPG) produced by a glycerol kinase mutant of Escherichia coli was purified, and its mode of action on E. coli was studied. At concentrations where BPG strongly inhibits in vivo deoxyribonucleic acid, ribonucleic acid, and protein synthesis, it produces small effects on other functions: slight inhibition of respiration and small changes in intracellular pools of substrates, nucleic acids degradation, and adenosine triphosphate levels. BPG also inhibits in vitro protein synthesis and produces inactivation of bacteriophage T4. The bactericidal product has been identified in another laboratory as methylglyoxal (MG). By comparing BPG and MG, we confirmed this observation and concluded that the activity found in our BPG preparation is due to its MG content. We also observed that MG is able to react with guanosine triphosphate. According to these results, it is interpreted that MG could act directly on macromolecular synthesis by reacting with the guanine residues of nucleic acids and its precursors.
Alkaline sucrose gradient sedimentation of chromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid from Escherichia coli PolA +  and PolA -  strains during thymine starvation.	Single-strand breaks were not detected in the deoxyribonucleic acid of Escherichia coli after thymine starvation for up to 180 min, even in a sensitive PolA(-) strain.
Thiostrepton, an inhibitor of 5OS ribosome subunit function.	Thiostrepton inhibits (14)C-leucine incorporation by intact cells of Bacillus megaterium as well as (14)C-phenylalanine incorporation by a poly U-directed extract of Escherichia coli. Extracts of E. coli which are pretreated by incubation with thiostrepton cannot be reactivated by dialysis to more than 5% of their former activity. The 50S ribosome subunit appears to be the site of thiostrepton action, since protein-synthesizing activity can be restored to dialyzed pretreated extracts by supplementation with 50S ribosome subunits but not with 30S ribosome subunits. This technique also provides a simple sensitive method for detection of the biological activity of very small amounts of 50S ribosome subunits.
DNA replication in mammalian cells. I. The size of newly synthesized helices.	The newly synthesized DNA of heteroploid human cells cultured in vitro has a single-stranded molecular weight of approximately 1 x 10(5) following 30- to 60-second pulses of labeling with tritiated thymidine. With increasing pulse times the amount of radioactive DNA having a low single-stranded molecular weight remains approximately constant, whereas increasing amounts of label are found associated with the bulk DNA. After removing the label from the medium, the radioactivity associated with the small molecular weight DNA is chased into high molecular weight material. These findings are analogous to what is observed in microorganisms and suggest a basically common organization of the growing point of DNA in bacterial and in mammalian cells.
Mechanism of DNA chain growth. IV. Direction of synthesis of T4 short DNA chains as revealed by exonucleolytic degradation.	T4 nascent short chains labeled at their growing ends with H(3)-thymidine and uniformly with C(14)-thymidine were prepared, separated into complementary strands, and degraded by E. coli exonuclease I in the 3' to 5' direction or by B. subtilis nuclease in the 5' to 3' direction. The kinetics of release of H(3) and C(14) labels by both enzymes was consistent with the conclusion that the H(3) label is at the 3' end of the nascent short chains of both strands and that the short chains are products of discontinuous synthesis in the 5' to 3' direction along the two template strands.
Abortive infection of sporulating Bacillus subtilis 168 by phi 2 bacteriophage.	Bacteriophage phi2 is unable to replicate in Bacillus subtilis 168. Although some phage deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis can occur, the DNA made is not biologically active and sedimentation analysis reveals that it is smaller in size than that of mature DNA or DNA isolated from phi2-infected permissive hosts. Messenger ribonucleic acid hybridizable with phi2 DNA is also synthesized in phi2-infected cells of 168. Mutants of 168 which are permissive hosts for phi2 have been isolated. These mutants are defective in sporulation and possess the phenotype of "early sporulation mutants." The majority map in two locations, one near the lys locus opposite the trp locus (spoA locus) and the other tightly linked to a phe locus.
Bactericidal action of 2-hydroxy-3-(cyclohexylpropyl)-1,4-naphthoquinone on Bacillus megaterium.	The antimalarial drug, 2-hydroxy-3-(cyclohexylpropyl)-1,4-naphthoquinone (NQ), at concentrations of approximately 10(-5)m (3 mug/ml), was bactericidal for the gram-positive bacterium, Bacillus megaterium. Only a few other gram-positive bacteria were sensitive to this drug. All growth inhibitory concentrations of NQ were also bactericidal for B. megaterium, and even resting suspensions of cells were killed. The incorporation of radioactive-labeled leucine, thymidine, uracil, and diaminopimelic acid into protein, deoxyribonucleic acid, ribonucleic acid, and the cell wall polymer was arrested immediately and completely upon addition of NQ to cultures in exponential growth. NQ produced a delayed effect on aerobic respiration and no change in the rate of oxygen consumption was observed at a time when all major biosyntheses had failed. (3)H-NQ was demonstrated to bind strongly and preferentially to the bacterial cell membrane. This simultaneous shutdown of all major categories of in vivo macromolecular syntheses points to an effect of NQ upon membrane-centered energy supplying reactions or transport of essential nutrients, or both.
Evidence suggestive of compartmentalization of deoxyribonucleic acid-synthesizing systems in freeze-treated Bacillus subtilis.	Freezing of Bacillus subtilis in liquid nitrogen results, upon thawing of the cells, in an enhanced deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate and reduced thymidine (Tdr) incorporation into cellular deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The DNA synthesized from thymidine triphosphate (TTP) was made by a "repair"-type system as determined by density transfer experiments. The mono- and diphosphate precursors were also incorporated by a "repair"-type synthesis. When Tdr was used as the radioactive precursor in the assay mixture, the product was only that expected from a semiconservative synthesis. Superlethal ultraviolet light exposure of the freeze-treated cells stimulated incorporation of phosphorylated precursors into DNA. Tdr uptake was greatly reduced by ultraviolet exposure, and only repair synthesis was observed. TTP and Tdr do not compete with one another in this system. The possibility that two DNA synthesizing systems exist in separate, non-mixing cellular compartments is considered.
Incorporation of radioactive macromolecular precursors into intact cells and osmotically stabilized "protoplasts" of Streptococcus faecalis.	Growing "protoplasts" of Streptococcus faecalis were shown to incorporate newly administered radioactive precursors in the same manner as growing intact streptococci. No observable differences could be found between the size of the leucine precursor pools of the two cultures. The extent of turnover of protein and ribonucleic acid in both "protoplast" and streptococcal cultures appeared to be identical. Finally, the absolute rate of macromolecular biosynthesis was found to be equivalent whether determined on the basis of "new" or "old" label incorporation.
Leukokinetic studies. XIV. Blood neutrophil kinetics in chronic, steady-state neutropenia.	The kinetics of blood neutrophils was investigated by means of the in vitro radioactive diisopropyl fluorophosphate method in 35 patients with a chronic, steady-state neutropenia. There were 17 patients in whom the half disappearance time of neutrophils was normal. In 10 of these patients, the production of neutrophils was low and in 7, production was normal. In 18 patients the half disappearance time of neutrophilic granulocytes was shorter than normal. The production of neutrophilic granulocytes was low in five of these patients, normal in eight patients, and increased in five. An attempt was made to correlate other laboratory measurements with the kinetic picture, but no relationship was found; the marrow neutrophil reserve as measured by endotoxin or cortisol injection; marrow cellularity on aspiration or biopsy; in vitro-labeling index with (3)HTdR; or serum lysozyme concentration proved of no value in identifying the various kinetic groups. The only finding that seemed to correlate with the kinetic picture was the presence or absence of splenomegaly. In 12 of the 18 patients with a short half disappearance time, splenomegaly was present whereas in 15 of 17 patients with a normal half disappearance time, there was no splenomegaly. Of 20 patients with greater than 1000 neutrophils per mm(3), 17 were found to have a normal total-blood neutrophil pool. Thus these patients, with many of their cells marginated, agree to have a "shift neutropenia."Myelocyte to blood transit time and myelocyte generation time, as measured in seven patients by in vivo labeling with diisopropy fluorophosphate, proved to be essentially normal. Thus, it appears that in chronic neutropenia, increased or decreased production of neutrophils is accomplished by increasing or decreasing early precursor input into the system.
The development of hypersensitive lymphocytes in cell culture.	An in vitro cell-mediated immune response to pokeweed mitogen (PWM) is described. Rat lymphocytes were stimulated by PWM, by phytohemagglutinin (PHA), and by concanavalin A (ConA). In the presence of PWM only a fraction of the lymphocytes underwent blastogenesis. This was in contrast to the apparent total blastogenesis obtained in response to PHA or ConA. When blast cells derived from each of the mitogens were plated on rat fibroblast monolayer in the absence of mitogen they differentiated into a distinct type of lymphocyte termed "secondary lymphocyte." Addition of mitogens to cultures of these lymphocytes resulted in a retransformation to blast cells. The secondary lymphocytes were tested for their ability to effect lysis in the presence of each of the three mitogens. In. the presence of PWM, lysis of fibroblasts produced by PWM-lymphocytes was considerably more efficient than lysis obtained by ConA- or PHA-lymphocytes. No difference in effect on target fibroblasts was obtained when the three types of secondary lymphocytes were tested in the presence of either PHA or ConA. The stimulating action of PWM on lymphocytes was shown to be immunologically specific. No such specificity was found in the case of PHA or ConA. The results are interpreted to indicate that PWM combines with cell membranes and acts on the lymphocytes as a "transplantation antigen." Lymphocytes capable of responding to "PWM-transplantation antigen" transform to blast cells capable of specifically lysing PWM-conjugated fibroblasts. In the absence of the mitogen, PWM-induced blast cells differentiate to lymphocytes hypersensitive to PWM.
A study of gluco-corticosteroid-induced pyknosis in the thymus and lymph node of the adrenalectomized rat.	Pyknotic nuclei, observed in the thymus of steroid-treated rats, are dense, homogeneous, intensely basophilic and Feulgen positive. Under the electron microscope, the image is that of a complete segregation of the chromatin from the nuclear sap producing a margin or crescent of condensed chromatin. Approximately 30% of all small thymocytes appeared to undergo this type of degeneration within 3-4 hr after administration of the synthetic corticosteroid, dexamethasone. At this time, pyknotic thymocytes were observed in clusters, probably as a result of the activity of dense reticular cells and macrophages. Topographical and experimental data suggest the existence of a select population of steroid-sensitive thymic cells. Furthermore, on the basis of thymidine-(3)H incorporation studies, it appears that the steroid-sensitive population of thymocytes does not correspond to "aged" cells. In addition, many plasma cells became pyknotic after the same steroid treatment, indicating an unexpected similarity between their nuclei and those of lymphocytes. Finally, steroid failed to induce pyknosis of thymocytes in a variety of in vitro experiments, suggesting that the in vivo effect of steroid is of an indirect nature. The results are discussed in terms of (a) the nature of the nuclear changes characterizing pyknosis, (b) the hypothetical mechanism whereby steroids trigger such changes, and (c) the population of cells susceptible to steroid-induced pyknosis.
Primitive erythropoiesis in early chick embryogenesis. I. Cell cycle kinetics and the control of cell division.	The primitive line of embryonic chick blood cells develop as a relatively homogeneous cohort of cells. Using an analysis based on the continuous uptake of thymidine-(3)H, we have established the generation time, G1, S, and G2 for progressively more mature generations of these immature erythroblasts. The data indicate that after the initiation of hemoglobin synthesis, the average cell will yield six generations of hemoglobin producing erythroblasts. The older generations of erythroblasts exhibit a longer generation time, G1, S, and G2 than the earlier generations of erythroblasts. Other methods of analysis corroborated these findings. One of these methods, an estimate of total erythrocyte productivity from the primitive stem cells (hematocytoblasts), led to the conclusion that the erythroblast cell lineage might be initiated as early as the sixth or seventh division following fertilization. In addition, primitive erythroblasts characterized by one set of cell cycle parameters, when grown in serum associated with erythroblasts of different parameters, showed no alteration in mitotic behavior. These results suggest the presence of programmed cell division not immediately cued by extracellular influence.
Primitive erythropoiesis in early chick embryogenesis. II. Correlation between hemoglobin synthesis and the mitotic history.	Primitive erythroblasts in the circulating blood of the chick embryo continue to divide while synthesizing hemoglobin (Hb). Hb measurements on successive generations of erythroblasts show that there is a progressive increase in the Hb content of both interphase and metaphase cells. Furthermore, for any given embryo the Hb content of metaphase cells is always significantly greater than that of interphase cells. The distribution of Hb values for metaphase cells suggests that there are six Hb classes corresponding to the number of cell cycles in the proliferative phase. The location of erythroblasts in the cell cycle was determined by combining Feulgen cytophotometry with thymidine radioautography on the same cells. Measurements of the Hb content for erythroblasts in different compartments of the cell cycle (G1, S, G2, and M) show a progressive increase through the cycle. Thus, the amount of Hb per cell is a function of the number of cell divisions since the initiation of Hb synthesis and, to a lesser degree, the stage of the cell cycle. Earlier generations of erythroblasts synthesize Hb at a faster rate than the terminal generation. Several models have been proposed to explain these findings.
Cell population changes in the intestinal mucosa of protein-depleted or starved rats. I. Changes in mitotic cycle time.	The effect of a protein-free diet and starvation on the duration of the rat ileal crypt cell cycle time was studied by Quastler's technique of labeled mitoses. Rats were fed a protein-free diet for 3, 7, or 11 wk or were starved for 7 or 10 days. Progressive protein depletion resulted in a progressive lengthening of the cycle time (GT), due primarily to a lengthening of the synthetic phase (S) of the cycle. The presynthetic gap (G(1)) was the same as the control value after 3 wk and lower, but not significantly so, due to the large variability, after 11 wk. The duration of the postsynthetic gap (G(2)) plus mitotic phase (M) was not affected by the diet. As the dietary stress became more severe, the cell cycle also became more variable. Although the GT of rats starved for as long as 10 days was only slightly different from the control, the relative duration of the components of the cycle changed significantly. S and G(2) were longer in the starved animals while G(1) was of shorter duration.
Lymphocyte DNA synthesis inhibition.	A specific endogenous inhibitor for lymphocyte DNA synthesis that can be isolated from the lymphoid system and which is probably cell specific is described. The inhibitor is thermolabile, is destroyed by trypsin, and has a mass of about 30,000 to 50,000 daltons.
Mechanism of inhibition of vaccinia virus replication in adenovirus-infected HeLa cells.	The ability of vaccinia virus to replicate in HeLa cells which had been previously infected with adenovirus type 2 (Ad2) was studied in order to gain insight into the mechanism by which adenovirus inhibits the expression of host cell functions. Vaccinia virus was employed in these studies because it replicates in the cytoplasm, whereas Ad2 replicates in the nucleus of the cell. It was found that vaccinia deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis is greatly inhibited in adeno-preinfected HeLa cells provided that vaccinia superinfection does not occur before 18 hr after adeno infection. The inhibition of vaccinia DNA synthesis can be traced to an inhibition of vaccinia protein synthesis and viral uncoating. Vaccinia ribonucleic acid (RNA) synthesis is not inhibited in adeno-preinfected cells, but the vaccinia RNA does not become associated with polysomes.
The effect of ethidium bromide on mitochondrial DNA synthesis and mitochondrial DNA structure in HeLa cells.	The synthesis of mitochondrial DNA (mDNA) in HeLa cells is selectively inhibited by relatively low concentrations of ethidium bromide. After exposure of cells to strongly inhibitory concentrations of the drug, the apparent superhelix density of mDNA is rapidly increased, as judged by its buoyant density in CsCl in the presence of ethidium bromide. Mitochondrial DNA synthesized in the presence of partially inhibitory concentrations of ethidium bromide is also altered in its buoyant density in the presence of the dye, but is more heterogeneous in this respect. However, the change in buoyant density of newly synthesized mDNA may be explained by changes in structure other than a change in superhelix density, as indicated by its increased resistance to digestion by pancreatic DNase.
Effect of growth hormone on the metabolism of thymus and on the immune response against sheep erythrocytes.	The effect of pituitary growth hormone on the biosynthesis of DNA in the thymus and other lymphoid organs, as well as the ability of the rat to respond immunologically to sheep red blood cells, has been evaluated. There is a marked reduction in plaque-forming cells, hemagglutination titers, and DNA synthesis in animals when examined at 15 wk after hypophysectomy. Administration of bovine growth hormone (BGH) leads to the enhancement of DNA synthesis in lymphoid organs and recovery of the immune response. Similar effects of the hormone are observed in plateaued rats. Injection of rabbit anti-BGH globulins, in contrast to normal rabbit globulins, over 5 days causes a drop in the weight of the thymus and in the rate of DNA synthesis in this organ. The thymus is also the organ in which stimulation of DNA synthesis is observed at a time period earlier than the spleen and lymph nodes after a single injection of BGH. The hormone stimulates not only the incorporation of thymidine-(3)H into DNA in the cortical cells, but also the incorporation of sodium sulfate-(35)S into TCA-insoluble biopolymers reported to be elaborated in the medullary area of the thymus. An in vitro system for the action of BGH on the thymus has been described. There is an obligatory requirement for calcium, but not for fetal calf serum in the medium for the hormone effect. An early action of the hormone is the enhanced incorporation of uridine-G-(3)H into RNA in thymocytes which is followed by a stimulation of the synthesis of proteins and DNA. The stimulatory action of growth hormone on RNA synthesis is not because of a facilitated uptake of the radioactive uridine by the cells under hormonal influence, a mechanism by which insulin is observed to increase RNA synthesis in thymocytes in vitro. The action of growth hormone on thymocytes is specific, since thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and heat-inactivated growth hormone are not effective. BGH has also a beneficial action on the regeneration of the thymus and spleen in starved rats.
The peritoneal exudate lymphocyte. I. Differences in antigen responsiveness between peritoneal exudate and lymph node lymphocytes from immunized guinea pigs.	Peritoneal exudate lymphocytes from guinea pigs immunized with horse radish peroxidase, dinitrophenyl guinea pig albumin, or ferritin in complete Freund's adjuvant have been shown to be significantly more reactive than other lymphocytes in two in vitro assays of cellular immune function: production of macrophage migration inhibitory factor and antigen-induced lymphocyte proliferation. The enhanced reactivity of peritoneal exudate lymphocytes cannot be accounted for by artifacts introduced by column purification or by the presence of nonlymphoid accessory cells. These observations suggest that the peritoneal exudate lymphocyte pool is a highly enriched source of cellular immune effector cells with specificity directed towards those antigenic determinants to which an animal has been recently exposed.
Effect of a single dose of dimethylnitrosamine on biosynthesis of nucleic acid and protein in rat liver and kidney.	1. Administration of a single dose of dimethylnitrosamine to rats temporarily fed on a protein-deficient diet causes a high incidence of kidney tumours. The effect of such a dose of dimethylnitrosamine (40mg/kg body wt.) on metabolism of nucleic acids and protein in rat liver and kidneys was examined during the week immediately after administration. 2. Incorporation of [(14)C]leucine and [(14)C]orotate into hepatic macromolecules was inhibited within 5h of injection of dimethylnitrosamine, and did not recover for at least 5 days. Interpretation of these results is complicated by the concomitant extensive hepatic necrosis. 3. Renal RNA synthesis was assayed by incorporation of [(14)C]orotate in vivo and measurement of DNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity in vitro. Both systems indicate biphasic inhibition; minimal activity was recorded 9h and 3 days after treatment. Changes in incorporation of [(14)C]leucine into renal protein were similar but less marked. 4. Sucrose-density-gradient analysis of renal cytoplasmic RNA indicated increased synthesis of rRNA 24h after injection of the nitrosamine. The rate of loss of radioactivity from kidney ribosomes pre-labelled with [(14)C]orotate was not modified by dimethylnitrosamine. 5. Dimethylnitrosamine increased incorporation of [(3)H]-thymidine into renal DNA. The three distinct periods of stimulated synthesis observed are discussed, with particular reference to recently published morphological studies of the sequential development of kidney tumours induced by dimethylnitrosamine in protein-depleted rats.
Quantitative studies on the mixed lymphocyte interaction in rats. V. Tempo and specificity of the proliferative response and the number of reactive cells from immunized donors.	These studies were designed to determine what influence prior immunization with homologous H isoantigens might have on the subsequent proliferative activity of lymphocytes from these animals in the mixed lymphocyte interaction. The results demonstrate the following: (a) Subcutaneous immunization with splenic cells from donors differing at the major H locus accelerates the tempo of the proliferative response to F(1) cells bearing these same antigens in the MLI, whereas antigen given systemically reduces the proliferative response. (b) The altered proliferative behavior is specific for the immunizing antigens. (c) The period after immunization during which the MLI displays an altered tempo is a short one, lasting not longer than 3 wk. (d) Whether they are derived from previously immunized or from normal donors, the proportion of lymphocytes responsive in the MLI is the same, even though the response profiles are different. These results suggest that in comparison to immune responses to other types of antigens, immunologic reactivity to the major H isoantigens already involves a large number of antigen-reactive cells in normal animals and that the proportion of these cells is not increased as a result of immunization. Rather, lymphocytes from immunized animals respond more rapidly to the presence of these antigens.
Tumor induction by Agrobacterium tumefaciens: specific transfer of bacterial deoxyribonucleic acid to plant tissue.	When Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells grown in the presence of tritiated thymidine to label specifically the bacterial deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) are incubated with carrot root tissue for short periods of time, an appreciable fraction of the label becomes firmly associated with the root tissue. Such association is not observed in identical experiments when A. tumefaciens cell ribonucleic acid or protein are labeled. The extent of the retention of thymidine-derived label from bacterial cells by the root tissue in experiments with A. radiobacter and poorly tumorigenic strains of A. tumefaciens is significantly less than that afforded by tumorigenic strains of A. tumefaciens but greater than the level afforded by Escherichia coli. Transfer of DNA-specific label from A. tumefaciens to carrot root discs is not enhanced by treatments designed to provoke lysis of the bacterial cells, nor is it decreased by addition of deoxyribonuclease or excess unlabeled thymidine to the incubation medium. Bacterial cell-to-plant cell contact is necessary for transfer. Unlabeled A. radiobacter cells decrease in a competitive manner transfer of label when mixed with labeled A. tumefaciens cells. These findings suggest that transfer of DNA from A. tumefaciens to plant tissue after binding of the bacterial cells to specific plant tissue site(s) is a necessary feature of the mechanism by which A. tumefaciens provokes tumors in plants and provides an experimental technique of potentially great value in study of the early steps in the process of tumor induction by A. tumefaciens.
On the size of the DNA in the mammalian chromosome. Structural subunits.	Alkaline degradation of mammalian DNA indicates that the molecule exists in the chromosome as an array of structural subunits. The size of the subunit of single-stranded DNA is circa 5 x 10(8) daltons, and it is of sufficient length to contain a number of synthetic units, replicons. The upper size limit of the multicomponent structure is in excess of 10(10) daltons. Mammalian cells of three different origins have been shown to contain the same basic structural DNA components and these components exist throughout the cell cycle. The nature of the links between the subunits is not known.
Synchronization and recruitment in acute leukemia.	The in vivo effects of several chemotherapeutic agents on the mitotic cycle of leukemic blasts in the bone marrow were evaluated by serial measurements of cells in mitosis and in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis as indicated by ability to incorporate tritiated thymidine or tritiated deoxyuridine. 28 studies were done in 23 children and 1 adult. The changes in the marrow after a single injection of L-asparaginase, hydrocortisone, cyclophosphamide, cytosine arabinoside, methotrexate, and an exchange transfusion (62% of the total blood volume) were evaluated. L-asparaginase and hydrocortisone were found to arrest the entry of cells into the S period. Cyclophosphamide appeared to inhibit DNA synthesis, arrest cells in mitosis, and inhibit the entry of cells into the S period. Cytosine arabinoside, and methotrexate inhibited DNA synthesis. During the period of time the cells were inhibited in the S phase by these two drugs, cells continued to enter the S period. Thus partial synchronization was achieved after these two drugs. An exchange transfusion had no consistent effect on the mitotic cycle, but partial synchronization in the S period was seen in one patient. To take advantage of the ability of cystosine arabinoside, to synchronize leukemic cells in the S phase, a second cycle-dependent drug was given at the time the leukemic blasts were synchronized. The second cycle-dependent drugs evaluated were vincristine, methotrexate, and cytosine arabinoside given by intravenous drip over a 12 hr period. Recruitment was found after cytosine arabinoside alone, and after prior synchronization with cytosine arabinoside and then the administration of either of these drugs. The results of these studies indicate that a greater therapeutic advantage can be achieved by a second cycle-dependent drug after synchronization than after the second drug alone.
Developmental changes of erythropoiesis in cultured chick blastoderms.	The erythropoietic area of very early chick embryos was cultured as a tissue for up to nine days to study the changes in red cell type and hemoglobin type, the cell cycle time, the cell population kinetics, and the DNA synthetase activity of these cells. It was found that the area vasculosa without the participation of the embryo proper contained the information and the timing mechanism required to produce not only the early primitive erythroid cell population, but also in due course, the later definitive cell type, each with its appropriate hemoglobin types. Also the precursors of the definitive cell type are active in DNA synthesis and therefore are probably in cycle very early in the culture period.
Heterogeneity of the cellular immune response. I. Kinetics of lymphocyte stimulation during sensitization and recovery from tolerance.	Lymph node cells from guinea pigs immunized with HSA in complete Freund's adjuvant were grown in cultures containing different concentrations of specific antigen. Stimulation of thymidine incorporation was induced with progressively lower concentrations of HSA at successive intervals after sensitization. Moreover, the intensity of delayed skin reactions and the magnitude of stimulation in vitro increased over the same interval. These events are considered compatible with an evolution of the cellular immune response resulting from the selection of lymphoid cells by decreasing concentrations of antigen in vivo. Cells from animals rendered tolerant to HSA failed to respond to specific antigen in culture. As tolerance waned, stimulation was achieved at high but not low antigen concentrations. Tolerance, measured by cutaneous reactivity or by lymphocyte stimulation, was less readily induced in animals sensitized with adjuvant containing a reduced concentration of mycobacteria. Lymph nodes from these animals contained a large population of cells reactive at high antigen concentration, presumably less susceptible to the toleragenic effect of intravenous antigen. The dissociation of delayed hypersensitivity and antibody formation observed early in the immune response and upon recovery from tolerance has permitted correlation of lymphocyte stimulation with delayed hypersensitivity and cutaneous basophil hypersensitivity respectively.
Heterogeneity of the cellular immune response. II. The role of adjuvant, lymphocyte stimulation in cutaneous basophil hypersensitivity.	Antigen-mediated stimulation of thymidine incorporation was demonstrated in lymph node cells from guinea pigs immunized with 100 microg human serum albumin in either Freund's incomplete or Freund's complete adjuvant. Animals receiving HSA in IFA exhibited both cutaneous basophil (Jones-Mote) hypersensitivity and lymphocyte stimulation at 1, but not at 6 wk after immunization. Significant stimulation required >/= 10 microg HSA/ml of culture. Sensitization with HSA in CFA produced delayed hypersensitivity and permitted lymphocyte stimulation at both 1 and 6 wk. Stimulation was observed with as little as 0.1 microg HSA/ml at the later interval. Administration of 5 mg HSA intravenously at the time of sensitization with 100 microg HSA in IFA reduced but did not eliminate both CBH and lymphocyte stimulation at 1 wk. Antigen-specific inhibition of macrophage migration could be demonstrated with exudates from animals immunized with HSA in CFA, but not with HSA in IFA at 3 wk after sensitization. HSA was cleared from depots of CFA and IFA at similar rates, but significantly more antigen appeared in the plasma and subsequently in the draining lymph nodes following administration in IFA. Conversely, accumulated antigen disappeared more rapidly following CFA immunization.
Mixed lymphocyte cultures produce effector cells: model in vitro for allograft rejection.	Mouse peripheral lymphocytes sensitized in vitro by culturing with allogeneic lymphocytes produced immunospecific destruction of target cells, as measured by release of chromium-51. Thus the sensitizing and effector phases of the cell-bound immune response can both be studied in an in vitro system.
Cytoplasmic extraction: polyribosomes and heterogenous ribonucleoproteins without associated DNA.	Two methods are described for preparing cytoplasmic extracts from sea urchin embryos. One method, involving homogenization, yields DNA structures that cosediment with polyribosomes and subribosomal ribonucleoproteins. In addition this method also yields extraneous structures containing RNA that cosediment with polyribosomes. The DNA is not associated with polyribosomes, as shown by buoyant density analysis. Furthermore, this DNA appears to be spurious, because its release into a cytoplasmic extract does not occur when a different method of cell disruption, involving passage of embryos through a hypodermic needle, is used. With this second method, polyribosomes are obtained without extraneous cosedimenting RNA structures and subribosomal ribonucleo-proteins are obtained in the virtual absence of DNA.
Lymphocytic responses to streptococcal antigens in glomerulonephritic patients.	The lymphocytes from patients with progressive glomerulonephritis showed significant inhibition of cell migration in the presence of group A streptococcal particulate antigens. Marked increases in the level of DNA synthesis of these lymphocytes were also observed after contact with these antigens. Lymphocytes from patients with unrelated renal disorders exhibited minimum reactivity to streptococcal antigens.
Defect in DNA synthesis in skin of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum demonstrated in vivo.	Exposure of normal human skin in vivo to ultraviolet irradiation at wavelengths shorter than 320 nanometers stimtulated an unscheduled DNA synthesis in all of the cell layers of the epidermis and in the upper dermnial fibrocytes. The skin of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum did not show this response. correlation of these findings with previous tissue culture studies suggests that the defect in repair of the damaged DNA in xeroderma cells occurs in vivo as well as in vitro.
Changes in proportion of thiol to disulphide in acid-soluble nuclear proteins of Echinus during the first cell cycle.	1. DNA synthesis in Echinus esculentus eggs kept at 10 degrees C takes place just after fusion, 0.75-1.5h after fertilization, and at telophase at about 2.67-3.33h after fertilization. 2. An increase in the thiol/thiol+disulphide ratio in acid extracts from washed nuclear fractions of the eggs is found at fusion, at early stages of mitosis and at telophase. When DNA is being synthesized, the relative amount of thiol in the extracts increases. 3. There are at least five thiol-containing histones in the acid extract together with a diffusible thiol peptide containing methyl-lysine and 3-methylhistidine and a thiol-containing acidic protein.
Lethal and sublethal effects of hydroxyurea in relation to drug concentration and duration of drug exposure in sarcoma 180 in vitro.	The lethal and sublethal effects of hydroxyurea were studied in Sarcoma 180 in vitro in relation to drug concentration and drug exposure duration using cloning methods, radioautography, and flow microfluorometry. It was shown that postperturbation changes in radioautographic labeling intensity reflected real changes in the rate of DNA synthesis in individual cells. The data suggest that both the lethal and sublethal effects of hydroxyurea are dependent on the rate of DNA synthesis. These findings have important implications for the interpretation of DNA content distributions under perturbation conditions and for the development of drug treatment regimens that are based on cell kinetics.
The effects of various mammalian sera on attachment efficiency and thymidine incorporation in primary cultures of mouse mammary epithelial cells.	Mammary epithelial cells from 16- to 17-day pregnant BALB/c mice were cultured in various mammalian sera to determine the kind of serum which stimulates optimal attachment efficiency and thymidine incorporation. Of those sera tested, horse, bovine, lamb, goat and fetal bovine provided the highest attachment efficiency, whereas rat, mouse and human gave the lowest. Rabbit serum stimulated the highest thymidine incorporation into TCA-insoluble material with goat and rat providing the lowest. These results suggest that sera which provide the highest attachment efficiency for primary cultures are not the best stimulants of DNA synthesis and show that an inverse relationship exists between cell attachment and thymidine incorporation for any given type of mammalian serum.
Do fatty acids exert a specific effect on human lymphocyte transformation in vitro?	Both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids (FA) bound to albumin inhibit phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) transformation of human lymphocytes cultured in fetal calf serum (FCS). With two unsaturated FA inhibition is maintained, however, when saturated and unsaturated FA are added simultaneously the inhibition is abolished. When lymphochtes are cultured in human AB serum, fatty acids neither inhibit nor stimulate PHA transformation. The reasons for the difference between FCS and human serum are discussed. These results argue against reports that unsaturated FA plays an immunoregulatory role in humans.
The stimulation of DNA synthesis by cytochalasin B in proliferative epidermal and dermal cells.	Cytochalasin B influences a variety of cellular events that are associated with the contractile microfilament system and the formation of binucleate cells. Along with the formation of binucleate cells, cytochalasin B also causes an acceleration of cells from G1 to S in the cell cycle. By pulsing the cytochalasin B for 30 minutes and allowing for a previously established lag time (17.5 hours) a stimulation of thymidine incorporation into DNA of proliferative epidermal and dermal cells was found in both control and stripped epidermis. Autoradiographic analysis confirmed that the stimulation was due to an increased number of basal cells accelerated from G1 to S phase. A minimal number of binucleate basal cells, 1 in 300, was observed, which suggests that the stimulated synthesis is independent of binucleate cell formation. The amount of stimulation is maximum with cytochalasin B concentration pulse between 5gamma and 30gamma/ml. The results suggest a possible link in coupling cell membrane and surface events with subsequent increased cell nuclei synthetic activity.
Inhibitory effects of phytohemagglutinin isolectins L4 and E4 on L1210 cells.	Phytohemagglutinin isolectins L4 and E4 inhibit the growth and proliferation of cultured L1210 murine leukemia cells. L1210 cells were incubated with L4 or E4, and the metabolic and morphological characteristics of the cells were assessed. Dose-dependent inhibition of up to 90% occurs for [3H]thymidine and [14C]uridine incorporation. L4 is 30 to 50 times more potent an inhibitor than is E4. Inhibition begins 2 to 3 hr after exposure of L1210 cells to L4 and persists for as long as the cells are exposed to this isoleuctin. Total DNA and oxygen consumption in L4-treated cultures is also decreased. Whereas protein synthesis assessed by [14C]valine incorporation is less affected, glucose utilization remains unchanged. The binding of L4 and E4 to L1210 cells and human lymphocytes is similar and is reversible by porcine thyroglobulin. Porcine thyroglobulin also reverses L4-induced inhibition of nucleotide incorporation. Cell aggregation is the major morphological consequence of isoleuctin treatment observed by light or electron microscopy. L1210 cells are agglutinated at lower doses of isoleuctins than are normal murine lymphocytes. No evidence of cell death as estimated by 51Cr release or trypan blue uptake has been noted. Our data indicate that L4 and E4 have cytostatic properties and demonstrate that the reversible binding of a macromolecule to the surface of a malignant cell can modulate synthetic pathways and the rate of proliferation.
Isolation of high-rate DNA synthetic cells by con A chromatography.	The separation of L1210 cells with columns of Con A-derivatized nylon was investigated. Most of the cells bound to the column irreversibly. The binding was lectin-specific. Cells were pulse labeled with 3H-thymidine and applied to Con A columns. Those cells not binding the columns were enriched in incorporated thymidine compared to the unseparated population. Data is presented which suggests that a small, synchronized fraction of cells synthesizing DNA at a high rate is reduced in Con A-nylon affinity. It is proposed that L1210 cell DNA synthesis is not uniform in rate and that changes in this rate are related to changes in the ability of cells to bind Con A-nylon.
Radiation effects on the growth rate and cell population kinetics of actively growing and dormant roots of Tradescantia paludosa.	Actively growing and dormant roots of Tradescantia paludosa were exposed to x-rays to compare the radiosensitivity of an actively proliferating tissue with that of one which is not active but is potentially proliferative. The level of effect was ascertained by the degree of change in the rate of root growth 4 days after exposure. Cell population kinetics were measured in control and in irradiated roots to determine whether or not a change was produced either in the number of proliferating cells or in the mitotic cycle duration which was sufficient to explain the altered rate of root growth. Nuclear volumes were also measured to provide an estimate of the relative total target size in actively growing vs. dormant roots. Tritiated thymidine was used to measure the cycle duration and the proportion of cells synthesizing DNA. The results showed that 184 and 305 r respectively were required to reduce the linear root growth rate to 37 per cent of that of the control for actively growing and dormant roots. Mitotic cycle duration, measured 4 days after x-ray exposure, was the same as in the control. The number of proliferating cells, however, was reduced. The rate of cell production in the irradiated roots was reduced to approximately one-half that of the controls. The average nuclear volumes of active and dormant roots were 733 and 491 micro(3) respectively; thus the difference in the number of roentgens required to reduce growth to 37 per cent of that of the control can be attributed to the different average nuclear volumes. Therefore, the experiments suggest that part if not most of the differences in sensitivity between an actively dividing and an essentially non-dividing meristematic cell population resides in their different average nuclear volumes. Thus the law of Bergonie and Tribondeau needs to be reinterpreted, since the basic reason for the differences is secondary to whether or not the meristematic cells are proliferating.
The cell generation cycle of the eleven-day mouse embryo.	The incorporation of tritiated thymidine into the DNA of erythroblasts, primitive ependymal cells, and mesenchymal cells of 11-day mouse embryos was studied by radioautography at different times between 25 minutes and 18 hours after injection intraperitoneally. There was no labeling of mitotic figures until 1 hour after injection. Following this, mitotic figures were labeled for about 5.5 hours in primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells, and for a longer period in erythroblasts. The percentage of the labeled primitive ependymal cells at various times after injection indicate a periodic migration into and out of the mitotic zone. The cell generation cycle of primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells is similar to some kinds of adult cells. The cycle of the erythroblasts is more like that of the cells of aging mice.
Inhibiting effect of the new cytotoxic antibiotic daunomycin on nucleic acids and mitotic activity of HeLa cells.	The effect has been studied of Actinomycin D, Daunomycin (Da.), and Da. N acetyl derivative on mitotic activity and on the nucleic acid synthesis of in vitro HeLa cell cultures. The experiments were carried out by means of the radioautographic technique using stripping films. The relative uptake of thymidine-H(3) and uridine-H(3) was determined by means of the reduced silver grain count present in the nuclei of controls and treated cells. The mitotic activity and thymidine incorporation were noticeably reduced by Daunomycin and Actinomycin, whereas both processes appeared less affected by Da. N acetyl derivative. As regards nuclear RNA synthesis, all three antibiotics at low doses chiefly inhibit nucleolar RNA synthesis. On the other hand, whilst Actinomycin at higher doses causes an almost total inhibition of the synthesis of the whole nuclear RNA, in Daunomycin- and Da. N acetyl derivative-treated cells extranucleolar RNA synthesis is less susceptible to inhibition.
Biological assessment of chemical DNA damage in germ cells of male rabbits.	DNA damage represents a key step in mutagenesis and carcinogenesis. Excision repair has been described to be the major pathway restoring damaged DNA. Assaying DNA repair may thus illuminate the mechanism of mutagenesis and carcinogenesis and serve as an indicator of the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of environmental chemicals and drugs. The paper demonstrates a practical application of these concepts. DNA damage induced by chemical substances in male germ cells of rabbits was assessed by the demonstration of DNA repair synthesis in meiotic and post-meiotic maturation stages. Incorporation of tritium-labeled thymidine was monitored in spermatozoa obtained by serial ejaculation. The test was validated with several standard mutagens and carcinogens, and its usefulness was demonstrated with a study on 3 suspected genotoxic drugs, i.e. hycanthone, isoniazid, and metronidazole.
Selective elimination of proliferating cells in human diploid cell cultures by treatment with BrdU, 33258 Hoechst and visible light.	We have attempted to obtain pure populations of postmitotic cells from cultures of human diploid fibroblasts by the selective elimination of replicating cells. The selective system consists of treating cultures with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (5-BrdU) followed by exposure to the fluorescent dye 33258 Hoechst and irradiation with visible light. The percentage of survivors after the combined treatment was observed to be inversely proportional to the pretreatment [3H] thymidine labeling index of the culture. The post-treatment labeling indices, determined on the basis of the number of cells plated prior to the initiation of treatment, was higher in late passage cultures. Even after prolonged exposure to 5-BrdU (10 days), a small fraction of cells in early passage human fibroblast-like cultures was capable of incorporating [3H] thymidine. In contrast, actively replicating cells could be completely eliminated from HeLa cultures in this selective system. Studies with [3H] BrdU indicated that the cells incorporating this analog are preferentially killed. These observations suggest that human diploid cell cultures contain a subpopulation of very slowly cycling or transiently noncycling cells.
Studies on the mechanism of action of cyclosporin A.	The mechanism of cyclosporin A (CS-A), a compound known to act selectively on the immunocompetent lymphocyte, was investigated in a series of in vitro studies. CS-A, provided it was added simultaneously with mitogen, inhibited the incorporation of tritiated uridine and thymidine into mouse spleen cells and human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Addition of CS-A 48 h after onset of culture did not affect cell division, indicating that it acted at an early stage of lymphocyte stimulation, exerted no inhibitory effect on lymphoblasts and did not possess anti-mitotic activity. It was further shown that CS-A was not lymphotoxic and that its effect was reversible, because suppressed spleen cells recovered their proliferative capacity after a 24 h elution period. Inhibition of PFC in the Mishell-Dutton assay provides evidence of an anti-T helper cell action of CS-A.
Lymphocyte cell-cycle analysis by flow cytometry. Evidence for a specific postmitotic phase before return to G0.	We studied the cell cycle of lectin-stimulated human lymphocytes, making use of a flow cytometer. The RNA and DNA content of large numbers of individual cells was determined by supravital staining with acridine orange. The present study confirmed previous observations by others of a progression from G0 through G1 and S phase to G2/mitosis during the first 3 d in culture. It was also found that on subsequent days stimulated cells, before their return to G0, remained stationary in a state in which they contained the G0 complement of DNA and approximately twice the G0 complement of RNA. Cell-cycle manipulation with vinblastine and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BUdR) revealed that previous passage through both S phase and mitosis was required for entry into this newly observed late phase. In addition, there was high correlation (r = 0.973, P less than 0.001) between the number of cells in the late phase and measured [3H]thymidine uptake. It therefore appears that, in this system, stimulated cells remain in a distinct cell-cycle phase for a number of hours before their return to the resting state.
Effects of adenosine and deoxyadenosine on PHA-stimulation of lymphocytes of man, horse and pig.	1. Adenosine inhibits thymidine and uridine incorporation of PHA-stimulated lymphocytes of man and horse at concentrations higher than 50 and 10 microM, respectively. Deoxyadenosine is inhibitory at concentrations higher than 100 microM. Thymidine and uridine incorporation of porcine lymphocytes are elevated 5-7-fold by 25-100 microM adenosine, deoxyadenosine, inosine and hypoxanthine. Leucine incorporation of PHA-stimulated lymphocytes was affected by adenosine and deoxyadenosine in the same way, but to a lower extent. 2. Effects of adenosine and deoxyadenosine were more pronounced at shorter cultivation times. 3. EHNA potentiated the effects of adenosine and deoxyadenosine on human and equine lymphocytes. With human lymphocytes inhibition by deoxyadenosine and EHNA was higher than by adenosine and EHNA. With porcine lymphocytes only the combination of deoxyadenosine and EHNA was inhibitory. 4. Homocysteine potentiated the inhibition of thymidine incorporation by the combination of adenosine and deoxyadenosine with equine lymphocytes, but not the inhibition of adenosine or deoxyadenosine alone. 5. Adenosine suppressed the PHA-stimulated elevation of PRPP concentrations. With porcine lymphocytes PRPP remained at the level of 0 hr, while with equine lymphocytes PRPP concentration decreased to below that level. 6. The various effects of adenosine and deoxyadenosine on lymphocytes of man, horse and pig can partially be related to differences in adenosine and deoxyadenosine metabolism.
Nucleic acid synthesis in proliferating peroxisomes of rat liver as revealed by electron microscopical radioautography.	Thirty albino rats were fed with a diet containing 1, 2 or 4% di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP), a peroxisome-proliferating agent. Others were fed with normal diet as controls. Both groups were sacrificed at varying intervals from 3 days to 4 weeks. The livers were either removed and fixed in glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide or fixed in glutaraldehyde, incubated in a diaminobenzidine (DAB) medium, postfixed, embedded in Epon, and sectioned. Other tissues were incubated in Eagle's MEM containing either [P3H-thymidine or [3H]uridine, fixed, embedded in Epon, sectioned, and radioautographed. Specimens were observed in a Hitachi H-700 electron microscope. The number of peroxisomes showing DAB reactivity increased in DEHP-fed animals as compared with normal controls. In radioautograms of normal rats labelled with [3H]thymidine, no silver grains were observed, whereas grains were observed overt some nuclei, mitochondria and peroxisomes of DEHP-fed animals. In contrast, radioautograms of tissue labelled with [3H]uridine revealed a few grains in nuclei and mitochondria or endoplasmic reticulum of normal rats, although grains appeared in nuclei, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and peroxisomes of DEHP-fed animals more frequently. From these results, it is concluded that [3H]thymidine and [3H]uridine were incorporated in the proliferating peroxisomes, suggesting that nucleic acid synthesis had taken place.
Evolution of aortic hyperplasia after reversal of renovascular hypertension in the rat.	Unclipping of Goldblatt one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats leads to a rapid correction of the high blood pressure. Simultaneously, the aortic smooth muscle cell proliferation wave is stopped. Any further proliferation is prevented but the proliferation changes previously established cannot be reversed. Thus, provided clip removal is performed at the earliest phase of hypertension, it can modify the time-course of the aortic proliferation changes. On the contrary, the heart hypertrophy is significantly improved regardless of the unclipping time. Accordingly, the response of the hypertensive cardiovascular modifications to an antihypertensive therapy cannot be regarded as a whole since it is dependent on the cardiovascular target as well as on the onset time of treatment.
Nuclear bodies in mouse splenic lymphocytes: II - Cytochemistry and autoradiography during stimulation by concanavalin A.	Nuclear bodies (NB) are poorly understood nucleoplasmic structures frequently observed in many animal cell types. Murine lymphocytes mitogenically stimulated with concanavalin A contain 5 types of NB. In order to examine the origin and function of the NB we have carried out cell fractionation and have performed cytochemistry, immunocytochemistry and autoradiography at the electron microscope level. Regressive staining for RNP showed that simple NB (types I and II) and the shells of complex NB (types III, IVa and V) consist of a non-chromatinic fibrillar material which is most likely proteinaceous. Projections of this material from the NB surface appear to link the NB to nucleoplasmic fibrogranular elements. The fibrillar, filamentous and granular components of the cores of complex NB were largely RNP and in some instances closely resembled fibrogranular areas in the nucleoplasm. Chromatin masses were seen occasionally in the cores. All NB types remained unstained after nucleolus-specific silver nitrate staining, and were also not stained by a centromere-specific antibody. Autoradiography was performed along long-term labelling with 3H-uridine, 3H-thymidine or 3H-leucine. The NB were not labelled by any of the precursors, indicating that macromolecular synthesis does not play a major role in NB evolution in these cells. By fractionation, we showed that NB co-isolated with the nuclear matrix, and were linked to the fibrogranular nuclear matrix component by projections from the surface of the NB. A possible role of NB in RNA processing is discussed.
Pyrimidine metabolism in Tritrichomonas foetus.	The pyrimidine metabolism of Tritrichomonas foetus (KV 1) was studied using whole cells and cell homogenates. Pyrimidines and pyrimidine nucleosides were readily incorporated into nucleic acids. Orotate and aspartate were not incorporated into pyrimidine bases. Enzymes of the pyrimidine salvage pathway (i.e., thymidine and uridine phosphorylases and uridine kinase) were detected in trophozoite homogenates, but the activities of de novo pyrimidine synthesis enzymes (i.e., carbamoylphosphate synthase, aspartate transcarbamoylase, dihydroorotase and dihydroorotate dehydrogenase) were below the level of detection in these same homogenates. The evidence presented supports the proposal that T. foetus is incapable of synthesizing pyrimidines de novo but is capable of salvaging preformed pyrimidines and pyrimidine nucleosides from the growth medium and that enzymes of this parasite's pyrimidine salvage pathway are not organelle-associated.
Synthesis of full-length, virus genomic DNA by nuclei of vaccinia-infected HeLa cells.	It is well established that vaccinia virus infection induces the synthesis of virus-specific DNA in cytoplasmic 'factories', which are sites of virus-specific transcription. The present study demonstrates that vaccinia virus-specific DNA is synthesized also in the nuclei of infected cells with a similar time course. Direct observation and radiolabelling confirm the integrity of isolated nuclei. Reconstitution experiments and inhibitor studies demonstrate that virus-induced DNA is synthesized de novo within nuclei and does not result from cytoplasmic contamination. Cell-specific DNA synthesis is inhibited completely after infection and nuclei of infected cells then synthesize DNA which co-sediments with virus genomic DNA in denaturing gradients. Restriction endonuclease cleavage and hybridization with a virus-specific probe indicate that this is full-length, virus genomic DNA. The biological implications of this are discussed.
Colony-stimulating activity in murine mixed leukocyte cultures.	Mixed leukocyte cultures (MLC) were prepared utilizing mouse spleen cells from strains with: (1) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) differences, (2) many non-MHC gene differences, and (3) only a few non-MHC gene differences. After 4 days, the conditioned media (CM) of MLC from (1) and (2) above were found to contain high granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating activity (CSA) when assayed in methylcellulose clonal cultures. Also the stimulation index (SI) of CSA was elevated on day 4 of incubation, even though 3H-Thymidine (3HTdR) incorporation and SI as measured by 3HTdR increased at 4 and 6 days, respectively. However, MLC-CM from mouse strains with only a few non-MHC gene differences contained low titers of CSA after 4 days in culture, and this was paralleled by a low SI. For MLC with MHC differences, and with many non-MHC gene differences, the response detected by an increase in CSA production appeared more promptly and was perhaps more sensitive when compared with 3HTdR incorporation in the mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR). From these results, we conclude that the presence of CSA in MLC-CM at 4 days of culture represents a good marker for the degree of MLR, and we postulate that the CSA titer in MLC-CM may be relevant for the prediction of graft-versus-host reactions (GvHR).
Effect of tensile mechanical stress on the synthesis of metalloproteinases by rabbit coronal sutures in vitro.	The application of a continuous tensile mechanical stress (30 g) to explants of coronal sutures from newborn rabbits (1-2 days) produced increases in enzyme activity of 33.7% for collagenase, 95.2% for gelatinase, and 35.9% for NMP III over a 4-day culture period. All three activities were in latent form and required activation with either 4-APMA or trypsin. The increases in enzyme activities were not accompanied by an alteration in the degradation of structural proteins. This was due to the ability of the cells to synthesize an inhibitor (mol wt 29,000 daltons) which complexed the increased quantities of enzyme. This necessitated a substantial stimulation of inhibitor production because there was still a residue of free inhibitory activity in the media of stressed cultures after 4 days. We previously showed using the same model system that coronal sutures respond to tensile mechanical stress by a two-fold increase in collagen synthesis. The present data suggest that when the priority of the cell population is the synthesis of structural proteins, the inhibitor, in addition to preventing the hydrolysis of newly synthesized peptides, also maintains matrix degradation at normal turnover levels.
A lymphoblastoid response of human foetal lymphocytes to ultraviolet-irradiated herpes simplex virus.	Cultures of foetal lymphocytes were exposed to u.v.-irradiated herpes simplex virus (HSV). The cells responded with increased 6-3H-thymidine incorporation, the formation of clumps of enlarged lymphoblastoid cells and cell division. This response was first detected 3 to 4 days after exposure to virus material and was shown to be virus-dose dependent. The ability to stimulate foetal cells was considerably more u.v. resistant than infectivity. Two isolates of HSV type 2 (4663 and 37174), which had a high "transforming" ability, produced large numbers of non-infectious particles (particle: infectivity ratios in excess of 10(4)). The cells, which responded to u.v.-irradiated HSV with blastoid transformation, were associated with the non-E-rosetting (T-cell-depleted) subpopulation.
Macrophage factor that induces neutral protease secretion by normal rabbit chondrocytes. Studies of some properties and effects on metabolism of chondrocytes.	Normal rabbit-articular chondrocytes secrete very small amounts of degradative enzymes in culture. Rabbit peritoneal macrophages, when activated with lipopolysaccharides, release a factor in the medium which stimulates the chondrocytes to produce significantly high levels of collagenase and other neutral protease for 2-3 days. The soluble mediator from macrophages appears to be a polypeptide with a molecular weight of 13000-15000 and can be inactivated by short-term treatment with trypsin or pronase. The enzyme-synthesis by chondrocytes can be stimulated to the same extent by repeated addition of the macrophage-medium. The metabolism of chondrocytes is altered due to the presence of this mediator. The cellular proliferation is diminished, while the rates of degradation as well as biosynthesis of the matrix are increased. These studies suggest the possibility that in the conditions such as osteoarthritis, where the synovial cells may not play an active role in cartilage degradation, the proteases can be produced by the cartilage cells themselves after the stimulation by macrophage-derived mediators. These intrinsic enzymes may be responsible for the slow, but progressive degeneration of cartilage tissue.
ADP-ribosylation of nuclear proteins in normal lymphocytes and in low-grade malignant non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells.	Normal lymphocytes and lymphocytes from patients with low-grade malignant non-Hodgkin lymphoma were isolated from blood by a Percoll gradient procedure. Absence of cell proliferation in both cell types was indicated by very low [3H]thymidine incorporation rates. Determination of endogenous protein-bound single ADP-ribose residues by a radioimmunoassay revealed that the leukemic cells had 2.5-times lower levels of the NH2OH-sensitive and a 4-fold lower amount of NH2OH-resistant ADP-ribose . protein conjugate subfractions, respectively, than normal lymphocytes. By contrast, "total" ADP-ribose transferase activity, as measured in homogenates or permeabilized cells in the presence of DNase, was two-times higher in leukemic cells, whereas activity determined in permeabilized cells in the absence of added DNase was practically identical in both cell types. The apparent discrepancy between ADP-ribose transferase activity and endogenous levels of protein-bound single ADP-ribose residues may be explained in part by an enzyme inhibitor present in normal human lymphocytes. NAD + NADH levels were decreased 2.5-fold in the leukemic cells. This decrease, however, does not explain the reduced levels of mono(ADP-ribose) . protein conjugates since the ratio of protein-bound single ADP-ribose residues to NAD is distinctly different in leukemic lymphocytes compared to normal lymphocytes.
Inititation and termination of chromosome replication in Escherichia coli subjected to amino acid starvation.	Initiation and termination of chromosome replication in an Escherichia coli auxotroph subjected to amino acid starvation were examined by following the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into the EcoRI restriction fragments of the chromosome. The pattern of incorporation observed upon restoration of the amino acid showed that starvation blocks the process of initiation prior to deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis within any significant portion of the EcoRI fragment which contains the origin of replication, oriC. In this experiment, no incorporation of [3H]thymidine into EcoRI fragments from the terminus of replication was observed, nor was it found when a dnaC initiation mutant was used to prevent incorporation at the origin which might have obscured labeling of terminus fragments. Thus amino acid starvation does not appear to block replication forks shortly before termination of replication. Attempted synchronization of replication initiation by including a period of thymine starvation subsequent to the amino acid starvation led to simultaneous incorporation of [3H]-thymidine into all EcoRI fragments within the 240-kilobase region that surrounds oriC. It is shown that the thymine starvation step allowed initiation and a variable, but limited, amount of replication to occur.
Metabolic-morphologic characteristics of the integument of teleost fish with mature lymphocystis nodules.	Normal and virus-infected (lymphocystis disease) integument from five species of teleosts was examined by light and TEM autoradiography and SEM to establish metabolic-morphologic characteristics of integument with mature lymphocystis cells (LC's). LC's with numerous morphologic attributes of a late developmental stage showed highest incorporation of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1-91 h) above the intracytoplasmic inclusion body (ci) with little radiolabel in nuclei, cytoplasmic icosahedral deoxyriboviruses (ICDV's) or capsule. Analysis by quantitative autoradiography revealed that the % total cell label in ci and cytoplasm did not vary appreciably from 1-91 h and was corroborative with morphologic criteria of maturity. A possibly phylogenetic difference was noted between teleosts, wherein normal integument showed uptake of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1 h) by cells at all levels of the epidermis, and cyclostomes (Spitzer et al. 1979) wherein labeling was confined to the basal third of the epidermis. Among four infected teleost species, the mean diameters of the ICDV's measured under the same conditions, ranged from 259.5 nm to 290.0 nm with the mean for each species differing significantly (p less than 0.01) from each of the other means. Ruptured LC's were shown by TEM and SEM to have released ICDV's onto the lesions and integument. Various stages of LC degeneration, host response, and integumental repair processes were documented. An evaluation of labeling in vivo of the capsular matrix was compatible ([3H]-D-galactose greater than [3H]-L-lysine much greater than [3H]-L-fucose) with a glycosaminoglycan-protein structure.
In vitro generation of splenic suppressor cells by trypsin.	Rat spleen cells were mitogenically stimulated with concanavalin A (Con A) or sodium periodate and cultured for 14-20 hr with trypsin. When these trypsin-activated cells were co-cultured with fresh mitogenically stimulated cells, [3H]-thymidine incorporation into the fresh cells was suppressed. Artifactual and trivial effects of trypsin (e.g. increased release of cold thymidine, decreased cell viability, and a change in thymidine transport) could not account for the suppressor effect. Suppressor activity was not affected by removing B cells or macrophages before trypsin activation nor by treating the trypsinized cells with mitomycin C. Suppressor activity could only be generated when the spleen cells were stimulated with Con A or periodate during culture with trypsin, and supernates from the trypsin-activated cells did not have suppressor activity. The physiological significance of the results and possible mechanisms of action of the suppressor cells are discussed.
Characterization of mononuclear phagocytes from the mouse, guinea pig, rat, and man.	The present paper describes cytochemical, membrane, functional, and mitotic characteristics of monoblasts, promonocytes, monocytes, and macrophages of the mouse, guinea pig, rat, and man. For all of these species the results show that after staining for nonspecific esterase, with alpha-naphthylbutyrate as substrate, and for lysozyme, mononuclear phagocytes can be distinguished from other cells, e.g., T and B lymphocytes. However, it must be kept in mind that immature and mature granulocytic cells are also lysozyme positive. The presence of Fc and C receptors is dependent on the maturity of the cells and the duration of incubation in vitro; with respect to the former, an in vivo population of immature mononuclear phagocytes may have a lower percentage of positive cells than is the case in a mature population, and with respect to the latter, the percentage of positive cells rises during incubation. Phagocytosis of opsonized bacteria and red cells is a reliable criterion for the distinction between mononuclear phagocytes and other cell types, e.g. lymphocytes and fibroblasts. In all of the species studied, the majority of both immature and mature mononuclear phagocytes ingested particles opsonized with IgG; the proportion of phagocytosis of red cells via C3 receptors is usually very small. Incorporation studies with [3H] thymidine have shown that immature mononuclear phagocytes (i.e., monoblasts and promonocytes) divided and that monocytes and macrophages do not. The small number of macrophages that incorporate [3H] thymidine are immature mononuclear phagocytes which have very recently arrived in the tissues from the bone marrow. Comparison of mononuclear phagocytes in different organs of various species has shown unequivocally that these cells belong to one cell line, called the mononuclear phagocyte system.
Role of exonuclease III in the base excision repair of uracil-containing DNA.	Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 deficient in both exonuclease III (the product of the xth gene) and deoxyuridine triphosphatase (the dut gene product) are inviable at high temperatures and undergo filamentation when grown at such temperatures. In dut mutants, the dUTP pool is known to be greatly enhanced, resulting in an increased substitution of uracil for thymine in DNA during replication. The subsequent removal of uracil from the DNA by uracil-DNA glycosylase produces apyrimidinic sites, at which exonuclease III is known to have an endonucleolytic activity. The lethality of dut xth mutants, therefore, indicates that exonuclease III is important for this base-excision pathway and suggests that unrepaired apyrimidinic sites are lethal. Two confirmatory findings were as follows. (i) dut xth mutants were viable if they also had a mutation in the uracil-DNA glycosylase (ung) gene; such mutants should not remove uracil from DNA and should not, therefore, generate apyrimidinic sites. (ii) In the majority of the temperature-resistant revertants isolated, viability had been restored by a mutation in the dCTP deaminase (dcd) gene; such mutations should decrease dUTP production and hence uracil misincorporation. The results indicate that, in dut mutants, exonuclease III is essential for the repair of uracil-containing DNA and of apyrimidinic sites.
Ligation of oligonucleotides by pyrimidine dimers--a missing 'link' in the origin of life?	One of the principal photochemical reactions of DNA on exposure to UV is the formation of intrastrand cyclobutane-type pyrimidine dimers. The efficiency of this reaction depends on both the wavelength of the UV2 and the specific nucleotide sequence in the DNA. The formation of the pyrimidine dimer and its repair in living cells have been studied extensively. We have examined the possibility that pyrimidines at the ends of DNA strands may be adequately juxtaposed for dimer formation by the presence of a complementary strand, even when no phosphodiester linkage joins their sugars. In these conditions the formation of a dimer will 'ligate' two DNA strands end-to-end. We report here that thymidine oligonucleotides annealed to polydeoxyadenylate can be ligated end-to-end by UV irradiation, via thymine dimerization of the terminal nucleotides in adjacent oligonucleotides. The linkages are susceptible to direct photoreversal by 254 nm UV, as expected for cyclobutane-type thymine dimers, but they are not cleaved by the bacteriophage T4 endonuclease V, a dimer-specific DNA repair enzyme. We demonstrate that the ligating dimers are also resistant to photolyase from Escherichia coli. Although the phosphodiester backbone is not required for dimer formation, it is required for recognition of dimers by these DNA repair enzymes. We discuss the possibility that high molecular weight polynucleotides in primordial seas might have been generated from oligonucleotides by pyrimidine dimerization under the intense solar UV flux unattenuated by an ozone layer.
The influence of cyclic nucleotides on DNA synthesis in skin.	Total saline-soluble protein, total DNA, and 3H-thymidine labelling of DNA were measured in cultured guinea-pig skin during a 3-day incubation period. An early rise in total soluble protein and a fall in total DNA indicated loss of the cells damaged in cutting the skin samples. Samples incubated with dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate (db cAMP) showed an early stimulation of DNA synthesis. Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) stimulation of DNA synthesis showed a peak after 48 h incubation, probably reflecting a slower rate of entry of the compound into the epidermal cells.
Induction of squamous metaplasia: requirement for cell multiplication, and competition with lobuloalveolar development in cultured mammary glands.	Mouse mammary glands were previously shown to undergo either of two courses of development and differentiation in whole organ culture. The combination of insulin, prolactin, aldosterone, and hydrocortisone induces a structural development of lobuloalveoli, followed by casein production. In the second course, the mixture of dibutyryl cyclic AMP, prostaglandins E1, E2 and B1, and papaverine brings about an extensive squamous metaplasia and excessive keratinization. In the present study, the foci of the metaplastic squamous cells appeared to originate from single or very few cells. A preferential stimulation of squamous cell multiplication was involved in the induction process. Twice the relative number of nuclei incorporated 3H-thymidine in the squamous metaplastic cells than in the surrounding cuboidal epithelium, according to autoradiography. The necessity for cell multiplication was indicated by the reversible and complete inhibitions of both the metaplastic squamous development and 3H-thymidine incorporation by 1 mM hydroxyurea in the culture medium. Simultaneous inductions of both courses of development and differentiation revealed a competitive and reciprocal relationship between the two pathways. The concurrent expressions of both courses were considerably less than those achieved when either pathway was induced alone. Only the combination of the three types of inducers of squamous metaplasia was able to compete effectively with the hormonal induction of lobuloalveolar development and differentiation. The findings suggest that individual metaplastic squamous foci may originate as clones of cells by processes that require cell multiplication, rather than through a direct non- replicative conversion of pre-existent cells of the cuboidal epithelium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chronobiology of the intestinal tract of the mouse.	This paper summarizes recent and continuing work on circadian rhythms in the alimentary tract of rodents; these include: (1) cell proliferation, (2) activities of intestinal enzymes, and (3) behavioral aspects of spontaneous feeding and drinking. All regions of the intestinal tract show marked circadian behavior in cell proliferation. The roles of the light-dark cycle and meal timing in synchronizing such rhythms are discussed as well as the influence of epidermal growth factor, insulin, glucagon, and ACTH 1-17. Attention is called to the potential importance of these rhythms to basic research and medicine. Other circadian rhythms in the alimentary tract are reviewed briefly, such as those characterizing a host of intestinal enzymes, monosaccharide transport, and the height and width of the villi. Many of these have been shown to be cued to a feeding schedule; however, a number of the enzyme rhythms persist for one or two cycles in fasting animals, and this also is the case for the cell-proliferation rhythms. After having been acclimated to a circadian feeding schedule (within a range of 23-30 hr), rodents can on subsequent days anticipate the food an hour or more prior to its arrival. Some enzymes behave in a similar manner in that their activities increase prior to the expected intake of the daily food. These anticipatory response rhythms are under endogenous control, since both will persist in the fasted animal and both will free run when a mouse is placed under constant conditions. Somehow these animals are able to measure circadian intervals of time. This challenges the concept that the oscillations seen in enzyme activities are simply a passive consequence of feeding and fasting, respectively.
Inhibition of thymidine transport by low density lipoprotein and its lipid components.	We previously showed that low density lipoprotein (LDL) induces an early decrease in the thymidine-transport rate and subsequently inhibits cell proliferation. We now have demonstrated that a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of thymidine transport was found in all the cell lines examined irrespective of their sensitivity to the inhibitory effect of LDL on cell growth. Thus, inhibition of both transport and cell growth by LDL are not necessarily coupled. In contrast, 3-O-methyl-D-glucose transport was not affected by an addition of LDL. The specific inhibition of transport was not suppressed by an addition of chloroquine. Thus, degradation of LDL within the lysosome was not required for LDL to inhibit thymidine transport. A mixture of lipids extracted from LDL was as inhibitory as LDL in the various types of cells examined. Calf serum also prevented the inhibitory effect of both LDL and its lipid constituents equally. Phosphatidylcholine produced no decrease in thymidine transport, but cholesterol inhibited it. We concluded that LDL-associated lipids, particularly cholesterol, play an essential role in the LDL-induced decrease of transport.
The influence of insulin in the cell cycle of human aging cells.	Normal human IMR 90 fibroblasts at population doubling levels (PDL) 28 approximately 33 had an increased incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA when the cells were pretreated with physiologic concentrations of insulin (5 approximately 10 ng/ml) prior to re-initiation of the cell cycle. Insulin stimulation was not observed with fibroblasts at PDL 50 nor with SV40 virus transformed cells. In all cells treated with supra-physiologic concentrations of insulin (1000 approximately 6000 ng/ml) prior to the re-initiation of cell cycle, the incorporation of thymidine into DNA was greatly diminished. Autoradiographic studies of the effect of insulin suggest that a larger fraction of cells was found to enter S phase than untreated cultures. This effect was evident in younger cells rather than senescent cells.
Effect of serum from patients with kerion celsi on organ culture of chick embryo skin]	In the present work the Authors have studied the differentiation and the cellular multiplication of chick embryo skin incubated in vitro with normal human sera or with pathological human sera from patients affected by Kerion Celsi. In the following research the Authors have studied the skin structure by an optical and electron microscope and the thymidine 3H incorporation. The result demonstrates that the pathological human serum does not interfere with the multiplication and the differentiation of the skin in vitro, but displays a cytoaggressive action that induces a noticeable cytoplasmic vacuolation.
Epidermal activity in the involved and uninvolved skin of patients with psoriasis.	A simple biochemical technique has been used to study the rate of incorporation of precursor materials in the involved and uninvolved skin of psoriatic subjects. Psoriatic plaques were found to incorporate tritaited thymidine twice as rapidly as skin from control subjects. The uninvolved skin of psoriatics showed a 48% increase in thymidine incorporation. Histidine and proline incorporations were also increased in psoriatic plaques but not in the uninvolved skin of psoriatics.
Cell viability studies on the exfoliated colonic cancer cell.	Suspensions of desquamated colonic cancer cells were obtained from patients with cancer of the large bowel by colonic exfoliative cytology and from resected specimens of colonic cancer by an exfoliative technique. In addition, a tumor suspension was obtained from the resected specimens. Cell viability studies were performed on these cell suspensions. Whereas 23 of the 25 tumour homogenate cell suspensions were shown to exclude trypan blue, none of the exfoliated colonic cancer cell suspensions had viable cells. This finding would cast some doubt on the hypothesis that suture line recurrence following large bowel cancer surgery is due to the implantation of cells desquamated from the surface of the growth.
Study of the distribution and biological effects of 3H in the algae Acetabularia, Chlamydomonas and Porphyra.	Freshwater and marine algae are particularly useful for studying the radioactive contamination of aquatic systems. Acetabularia, Chlamydomonas and Porphyra were used to investigate the uptake and eventual biological effects of tritium. When the Acetabularia are grown in the presence of tritiated water, a significant amount of 3H is incorporated in the total nucleic acids and protein fraction. Chloroplasts of Acetabularia were isolated from whole cells and their DNA purified by the agarose procedure, before radioactivity analysis: a significant amount of 3H was incorporated into the chloroplast genome. Chlamydomonas was grown on minimal medium containing increasing concentrations of tritiated water. The increase in cell number was checked by microscope counting. The generation time was 9.6 h and seemed not affected even by the highest 3H concentration. Parallel experiments have shown that an appreciable amount of 3H was incorporated into the total organic matter of the plants. In the case of Porphyra, it was found that a very low level of 3H was incorporated into the total DNA of the plant.
Comparative incorporation of tritium from tritiated water versus tritiated thymidine, uridine or leucine.	Whereas the radiotoxicity of tritium has been extensively studied, comparatively little information exists on its long-term effects as a potential environmental pollutant, particularly at small dosage. This investigation was primarily aimed at assessing comparatively a possible carcinogenic potency of tritiated water versus radioactive precursors of DNA, RNA and proteins, namely tritiated thymidine, uridine and leucine in C57 Black mice. Tritium is largely released in the environment in the form of tritiated water. There are many uncertainties, however, as to how tritium is incorporated from tritiated water into cell constituents quantitively and qualitatively. In 1965, we reported on the carcinogenic effect of tritium in the form of tritiated thymidine on newborn C57 BL mice in the dose range of 0.3--1.5 muCi/g [Mewissen. 1965]. Hence the selection of tritiated water, and of tritiated precursors, in an attempt to evaluate their respective role in the tritium transfer process and to correlate their possible late effects with their specific patterns or sites of incorporation. This study deals with tritium incorporation from tritiated water and various precursors at the 1 or 10 muCi level. RSA values, i.e., the ratio of organically bound tritium per hydrogen content of dry tissue over aqueous tritium per hydrogen content of water, were estimated for newborn, juvenile and adult mice, at various time intervals (1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 days) following single administration of tritiated water, tritiated thymidine, uridine or leucine. The data available at this time show that administration of tritiated water (or precursors) result in a complex time dependent and age dependent residual activity dynamics both in the organic component and in the aqueous fraction of tissue. A few preliminary conclusions can be made. Following a single acute or brief exposure to tritiated water, values of activity become exceedingly small after a relatively short time period. In a steady state equilibrium, resulting from chronic exposure to tritiated drinking water, RSA values tend to stabilize. However, wide variations between various organs are to be expected, as suggested by their respective RSA values following a single exposure. In view of these observations, it would seem that a realistic estimate of the internal dose to the radiosensitive nucleus must take into consideration the age dependent incorporation of tritium from tritiated water, as well as the variation between organs. The carcinogenic risk has often been estimated from a uniform dose dependency model. The influence of time and space microdistribution of dose within tissues and more particularly at specific sites (such as DNA, RNA or protein) has received, as yet, little attention, as well as the relative contributions of the time sequence of dose absorption during the usually long latency period. Such factors, among others, may be critical in carcinogenesis from internal irradiation...
Distribution of tritiated compounds (tritiated thymidine and tritiated water) in the mother-fetus system and its consequences for the radiotoxic effect of tritium.	The incorporation and distribution of tritiated thymidine (3H-TdR) and tritiated water (HTO) have been measured in newborn rats exposed to various levels of tritium by continuous infusion into pregnant rats from day 9 until term. In the animals exposed to HTO, the tritium activity was homogeneously distributed, while 3H-TdR led to accumulation of DNA-bound and homogeneously distributed tritium. The incorporated activity and the specific activity of DNA from ovaries which showed a reduction of total oocyte number by approximately 50% were used to estimate the dose absorbed by the ovarian cell nuclei in both systems. From the absorbed dose, a factor of 3.7 was calculated for the "internal relative biological effectiveness" of DNA-bound tritium as compared to homogeneously distributed 3H under the restrictive assumption that the static description of the system at birth reflects the situation during the time of dynamic development of the ovaries when the toxic effect occurs. The influence of these dynamic factors of changing nuclear size and tritium incorporation during the sensitive period is weighed against the possibility that the continuous 3H-TdR infusion during pregnancy might represent a model in which DNA-bound tritium shows a higher effectiveness than homogeneously distributed tritium.
Lymphocyte stimulation in various age groups]	The study of lymphocyte functions is of great significance for evaluation of the immune response. One of the most valuable assays being the mitogenic response of lymphocytes to different antigens or mitogens, the question of the extent to which lymphocyte response decreased with advancing age has been studied. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy individuals aged 21 to 97 years were assayed for the blastogenic response to different mitogens. A significant age-dependent reduction of lymphocyte stimulation could be observed with two of the three mitogens tested. Since these mitogens in the concentrations used are mainly T lymphocyte stimulators, it can be concluded that an age-dependent reduction in T lymphocyte functions is present. These findings are not only of diagnostic significance but also have therapeutic implications for all geriatric diseases in which immunity may play a role. Furthermore, the experiments described show that the lymphocyte transformation assay with different mitogens is a simple reproducible assay which has its place in every routine evaluation of the immune response system.
Quantitation of [3H] thymidine uptake by stimulated human lymphocytes.	We have investigated the relationship between cell numbers and the amount of tritiated thymidine ([3H]TdR) taken up by stimulated human peripheral lymphocytes, as a function both of labeling time and of the specific activity of the thymidine. Cells responding either to mitogens or to allogenic cells show simple first order kinetics for the uptake of thymidine. Fitting the data to a Michaelis-Menten type of model, we observe for labeling times of 12 hr and longer, non-competitive inhibition of thymidine uptake by increased specific activity of tritium label, regardless of the mode of stimulation. However, for an individual responder in MLC at any arbitrary but fixed specific activity, dose of [3H]TdR and labeling interval, we still observe a linear relationship between cell mass and incorporated label. In contrast, if specific responding combinations in mixed lymphocyte culture are compared, the inhibition by specific activity at longer time intervals becomes significant and influences the quantitative interpretation of results. Specific activities of less than 10 Ci/mmole and labeling times of 6 hr or less avoid inhibition and ensure a linear relationship between dividing cell number and CPM (counts per minute recorded) of incorporated label.
Kinetics of human lymphocyte responses in vitro: the phase of exponential growth.	The kinetics of thymidine uptake in human peripheral lymphocytes stimulated by allogenic cells, antigen E (ragweed allergen) and a variety of mitogens can generally be divided into four consecutive phases. First, a lag period with no increase in thymidine uptake, then a short period of rapid change in uptake, followed by a log-linear growth period and finally a decay phase. In this report we examine in detail the characteristics of the third, log-linear growth phase. Since, as discussed in the preceding paper, thymidine uptake is proportional to the number of cells acumulating thymidine, we can calculate from the log-linear growth period an apparent doubling time. We show that for five different stimulating agents the cells reach a log-linear growth phase of varying length and that the doubling times show little variation. This invariance indicates that, despite possible variation in cell death and recruitment rates, the rate of proliferation is in all cases dominated by the generation time of human lymphocytes.
Osmotic pressure and angiotensin II stimulation of arginine vasopressin release from a guinea pig hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal complex in organ culture (author's transl)]	An organ culture system of a male guinea pig hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal complex (HNC) was established. On day 5 in culture, (Na+ -K+) ATPase activity was 0.83 +/- 0.11 mM Pi/mg prot/hr (mean +/- SEM): that is 67% of that on day 1 in culture. 3H-thymidine incorporated into DNA in the explants of HNC was 1,205 +/- 185 cpm/microgram DNA. The explants responded to the elevated KCl medium and the hypertonic solution of sodium chloride with a 470 +/- 38% and 298 +/- 31% increase in arginine vasopression (AVP) release, respectively. This response was inhibited by the addition of tetrodotoxin to the culture medium. AVP release from the explants in res-onse to angiotensin II increased significantly in a dose dependent manner. [Sar1, Ile8] angiotensin II, however, attenuated the response of the explants to angiotensin II when administered simultaneously with angiotensin II. These results suggest that angiotensin II and its analogue cause the AVP release from the explants in a competitive manner. The concentrations of AVP in the culture media made hypertonic with sodium chloride, sucrose and mannitol were 298 +/- 31% (p less than 0.01), 251 +/- 36% (p less than 0.01) and 255 +/- 59% (p less than 0.05) of their control values, respectively. The hypertonic solutions of sodium chloride, sucrose and mannitol caused AVP release from the explants in vitro, while the hypertonic solutions of glucose and urea were revealed to be poor osmotic stimuli on AVP release. These results support the concept of osmoreceptors to release AVP from the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal axis.
Synthesis of thymine and alpha-putrescinylthymine in bacteriophage phi W-14-infected Pseudomonas acidovorans.	Host DNA synthesis stopped about 10 min after the infection of Pseudomonas acidovorans with bacteriophage phi W-14, but host DNA was not degraded to acid-soluble fragments. The synthesis of host but not of phage DNA was inhibited by 5-fluorodeoxyuridine. The nucleotide pools of infected cells did not contain dTTP, and infection resulted in the appearance of dTTPase activity. Although ornithine labeled the alpha-putrescinylthymine residues of phi W-14 DNA, ornithine-labeled nucleotides were not detected in infected cells. A new deoxynucleoside triphosphate did appear in infected cells, but it was not labeled by ornithine. It is concluded that the thymine and alpha-putrescinylthymine in phi W-14 DNA are synthesized at the polynucleotide level.
Short-term incubation in vitro with precursors of nucleic acids on human primary tumors and metastases of carcinoma of the breast (author's transl)]	A technique of short-term tests in vitro by means of the incubation of tumor cell suspensions is utilized as a radioactive-biochemical method for pretherapeutic determination of the resistance in human cancers of the breast. Cell suspensions from primary tumors and metastases reveal individually different responses to cytostatics in vitro. It is possible, therewith, to differentiate two tumor collectives related to in vivo resistant or in vivo sensitive tumors. The responses of the primary lesion and the axillary lymphatic metastasis of the same carcinoma may in single cases also differ in vitro, according to clinical experience with the therapy of breast cancer. A distinct relation can be shown between the histological type of a carcinoma and its in vitro capacity of resistance.
In vitro stimulation of cell-mediated cytotoxicity by acute leukaemias.	Acute leukaemias stimulated proliferative and cell-mediated cytotoxic (CMC) responses in vitro in normal (unprimed) lymphocytes. Proliferation was detected by increases in viable cell counts and [3H]dT incorporation in mixed lymphocyte-leukaemia-cell cultures. CMC detected on cultured cell-line targets (CCL) including K562 was generally much stronger than on fresh leukaemia cells, and correlated with stimulation of [3H]dT uptake in the responding lymphocytes. Leukaemias which were resistant as targets to CMC were able competitively to inhibit CMC on K562, though not as efficiently as blocking by K562 itself. With one leukaemia, blocking of CMC increased as the level of CMC on K562 was amplified by greater numbers of stimulating cells in the sensitization phase. This suggests that in certain cases blocking of effector cells by acute-leukaemia cells may depend upon the state of activation of the effector cells. Lymphocytes from a leukaemia patient in remission, treated with allogeneic leukaemia-cell immunotherapy and stimulated in vitro with immunizing leukaemia cells, developed strong anti-leukaemic CMC. A non-immunized patient's lymphocytes did not respond in this way, despite comparable levels of CMC on K562 in both patients. Dual stimulation of unprimed normal lymphocytes and remission lymphocytes with allogeneic or autologous leukaemias and various cell lines, amplified anti-leukaemic CMC, but did not markedly alter CMC or CCL. These data do not formally exclude the mediation of in vitro-stimulated anti-leukaemic CMC by NK-like cells, but suggest that such effector cells differ qualitatively from NK-like cells detected in the absence of anti-leukaemic CMC.
Potential pitfalls of [3H]thymidine techniques to measure cell proliferation.	Pitfalls and artifacts in the use of [3H]thymidine in the measurement of cell proliferation kinetics in vitro and in vivo are reviewed. These pitfalls are of particular significance for the study of inhibitors of cell proliferation including chalones.
Hydroxyurea-sensitive thymidine incorporation in rat liver and kidney following administration of dimethylnitrosamine.	In rats treated with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), the sensitivity of [3H] thymidine incorporation to inhibition by hydroxyurea was determined in the liver and kidney. A 70% inhibition was produced in control animals with doses of hydroxyurea from 50 to 250 mg/kg body wt. Twelve hours after administration of DMN, hepatic thymidine incorporation was unaffected by 50 mg/kg hydroxyurea, progressive reduction in incorporation occurred as the dose of inhibitor was increased. A similar result was obtained in kidney only by dietary conditioning of rats to ensure a high renal metabolism of the DMN. In contrast, at 72 h after DMN treatment thymidine incorporation in both liver and kidney was rapidly inhibited by administration of 50 mg/kg hydroxyurea. The data, assessed together with various parameters of DMN-induced repair and replicative DNA synthesis, suggest the use of hydroxyurea as a means to study DNA repair in intact animals.
Inhibiting effect of caffeine on spontaneous and urethan-induced lung tumors in strain A mice.	The i.p. injection of caffeine (8, 20, and 40 mg/kg) 3 times weekly for 8 weeks suppressed the development of spontaneous pulmonary adenomas in strain A mice. The same caffeine injection scheme suppressed urethan (0.25 and 1.0 mg/g)-induced lung tumor development when caffeine treatment started 1 week before urethan administration, but this suppression was not significant when caffeine treatment was initiated 1 week after urethan injection. The most pronounced suppression of lung tumor formation occurred when caffeine was given as only two injections 3 hr before and 3 hr after urethan administration. The incorporation of [3H]thymidine into lung tissue DNA of caffeine-treated mice was impaired at the time of urethan administration. Also, caffeine partially antagonized the effects of urethan on lung tissue, as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation studies. One interpretation of these results is that caffeine-induced suppression of DNA synthesis interferes with pulmonary adenoma induction by decreasing the affinity of lung tissue DNA for urethan. The finding that chronic caffeine treatment produced continued suppression of [3H]thymidine incorporation into lung tissue DNA suggests that caffeine-induced inhibition of spontaneous pulmonary adenoma formation is due to a general suppression of lung DNA-synthetic activity.
Effect of ovarian steroids on DNA synthesis in explanted human adult resting mammary tissues.	A study has been made on the selective influence of the ovarian steroids, estradiol and progesterone, on three distinct parts of cultured, explanted human adult resting mammary tissue: lobules, interlobular and large ducts. The addition of estradiol elicited the highest stimulation of 3H-thymidine incorporation in large ducts. When progesterone was added DNA synthesis occurred mainly in interlobular ducts. The isolated action of both steroids on lobules was quantitatively comparable, but the time sequence of DNA synthesis was different. The possible significance of these findings is discussed.
Radioautographic investigation of gliogenesis in the corpus callosum of young rats. I. Sequential changes in oligodendrocytes.	The corpus callosum of young rats was examined to clarify the behavior of the three subtypes of oligodendrocytes (the large organelle-rich "light oligodendrocytes," the smaller and more densely stained cells referred to as "medium oligodendrocytes," and the even smaller and denser "dark oligodendrocytes"). It was hoped to find out whether cells of the three subtypes undergo division and how they are related to one another. 3H-thymidine was given intraperitoneally as single or three shortly spaced injections to a first group of 19- to 20-day old rats weighing about 40 g, and to a second group of 25-day old rats weighing about 80 g. The animals were sacrificed at various time intervals from 2 hours to 35 days after 3H-thymidine administration. Pieces of corpus callosum were taken near the superior lateral angle of the lateral ventricles; and semithin sections were radioautographed and stained with toluidine blue. Two hours after 3H-thymidine injection, label is virtually absent from light, medium and dark oligodendrocytes, from microglia, and probably from astrocytes, but is present in about 10% of the immature glial cells, which include the poorly differentiated glioblasts and the partially differentiated oligodendroblasts and astroblasts. Hence, the cells undergoing DNA synthesis and mitosis in the corpus callosum are these three types of immature cells. During the week that follow the administration of 3H-thymidine, label appears in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, which presumably have arisen from the initially labeled immature cells. The oligodendrocytes acquire label in a sequential manner: the light cells show label first and their labeling index reaches a peak at the seven-day interval; the medium oligodendrocytes become labeled next with a labeling peak toward the 14- and 21-day intervals and, finally, the dark oligodendrocytes with a peak around the 28-day interval. Analysis by the method of Zilversmit et al. ('42-'43) provides precise details on the sequence: immature cells presumed to be oligodendroblasts give rise to light oligodendrocytes which, after four to seven days, transform into medium oligodendrocytes which, after another 11 to 18 days, transform into dark oligodendrocytes. The dark cells may persist indefinitely or turn over at a very slow rate. It is concluded that oligodendrocytes arise from the last division of oligodendroblasts and develop in three main periods: a light stage lasting less than a week, a medium stage lasting about two weeks, and a very long lasting dark stage.
Radioautographic investigation of gliogenesis in the corpus callosum of young rats. II. Origin of microglial cells.	Microglial cells are absent from the corpus callosum of newborn rats. In the hope of finding out when and how microglial cells appear with age, 3H-thymidine was given intraperitoneally as single or three shortly spaced injections to 5-day-old rats weighing about 15 g; and these animals were sacrificed at various time intervals from 2 hours to 35 days later. Pieces of corpus callosum were taken near the superior lateral angle of the lateral ventricles; and semithin sections were radioautographed and stained with toluidine blue. The corpus callosum of 5-day-old rats is composed of loosely arranged unmyelinated fibers and scattered cells. Among these cells, microglia are rare; there are a few astrocytes, many immature glial cells, rare pericytes, and 6--7% of phagocytic "ameboid cells" consisting of a few monocytes and many macrophages. In the animals sacrificed two hours after 3H-thymidine administration, label is present only in immature cells and "ameboid cells." As time elapses and the fibers of corpus callosum become myelinated, oligodendrocytes and, later, microglial cells appear. At the age of 12 days, microglial cells are present in substantial number; and by 19 days, the number doubles to reach a plateau. Many of the new microglial cells are labeled, e.g., 78.1% in 12-day-old animals (7 days after 3H-thymidine administration). The labeled microglial cells must have come from the transformation of cells that acquired label early, that is, from the immature cells or the "ameboid cells." The height of the peaks of labeling--59.8% at nine days for immature cells and 77.8% at 12 days for "ameboid cells"--points to the latter as precursors of the highly labeled microglial cells. Furthermore, the "ameboid cells" disappear as microglial cells appear and there are transitional elements between these two cell types. Cell counts suggest that about a third of the "ameboid cells" transform into microglial cells, while the others degenerate and die. Thus, the microglial cells which appear in the corpus callosum during the first three weeks of life result from transformation of the "ameboid cells"--a group of macrophages showing various stages of transition from monocytes. As for the occasional microglial cell appearing after the third week or in the adult, they presumably come directly from monocytes. In either case, monocytes would be the initial precursors.
Tissue specificity for incorporation of [3H]thymidine by the 10- to 12-somite mouse embryo: alteration by acute exposure to hydroxyurea.	Radioautograms from 10- to 12-somite mouse embryos labeled for 30 min in vitro with [3H]thymidine were examined for frequency and intensity of incorporation. Results from ten tissues showed that values ranged from 82% of nuclei with a mean of 16.6 grains for visceral yolk sac to 17% of nuclei labeled with a mean of 4.4 grains for epithelium of the anterior gut tube. Labeling in the ten tissues indicated (1) a tissue-specific spectrum of incorporation of [3H]thymidine, (2) close correlation between frequency and intensity of labeling within a tissue and (3) asymmetrical quantities of incorporation between right and left somatopleure. Treatment with hydroxyurea in vitro reduced the frequency of labeled nuclei by 85% to 12% of control values. Mean numbers of grains over treated nuclei, 3.3-4.6 grains, were well above background but were clustered below the low end of the control range. Tissues exposed to hydroxyurea showed (1) labeling of significant numbers of nuclei, (2) inhibition of labeling in selected tissues and (3) equalization of bilateral asymmetry in quantity (frequency and intensity) of incorporation in somatopleure. The selective reduction of thymidine incorporation and equalization of asymmetrical rates of proliferation may constitute mechanisms by which hydroxyurea causes abnormal morphogenesis.
Both hypoxanthine and adenosine stimulate DNA synthesis independently in serum-starved L cells treated with platelet protein.	The effect of human platelet factors and purine derivatives on DNA synthesis has been investigated in mouse fibroblast-like L cells whose growth was arrested by serum starvation. When such cells were exposed to diluted platelet extract (e.g., 35 micrograms of protein per ml), a stimulatory effect on net DNA synthesis was observed. This effect was almost abolished by dialysis of the extract. The stimulation was, however, recovered by supplementing the diluted and dialyzed extract with hypoxanthine or adenosine. Similar phenomena were observed in pulse-labeling experiments performed with [3H]thymidine. In this case, however, there was a marginal stimulatory effect of adenosine or hypoxanthine alone. When the cells were treated with saturating concentrations of pure platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), a stimulatory effect on pulse labeling was again obtained by the simultaneous presence of hypoxanthine or adenosine. In serum-starved cells of a mutant line of L cells deficient in hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase, there was, however, no stimulatory effect on pulse labeling by hypoxanthine when it was added alone or together with either PDGF or diluted dialyzed platelet extract. It is suggested that the stimulation of DNA synthesis by the purine derivatives in the presence of a certain type of platelet proteins, probably involving PDGF, may be explained by their function as precursors for a purine ribonucleotide pool that is specifically related to DNA synthesis. Treatment of serum-starved L cells with high concentrations of dialyzed platelet extract (e.g., 240 micrograms of protein per ml) showed that platelets contain an additional type of factor that may substitute for the requirement of adenosine or hypoxanthine for DNA synthesis to take place. It is suggested that the effect of this type of factor may be to activate the catabolic activity of the purine salvage pathway.
A biochemical study of the phagocytic activities of tuftsin and its analogues.	The effects of tuftsin and one of its analogues (4 [lys]-tuftsin) on phagocytosis of Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans were investigated in mice and rabbits. Mice were intravenously or orally administered 1-25 mg of 4 [lys]-tuftsin per kg daily for 4 to 7 days. After the mice were further treated with cyclophosphamide, they were intravenously challenged with C. albicans. More than 50% of the mice infected with C. albicans were killed within 7 days, although only 20% to 40% of those infected with the same microbes after 4 [lys]-tuftsin treatment died. A combination of 4 [lys]-tuftsin and an antibiotic was found to be somewhat more effective than either one alone. Further, pretreatment with 4 [lys]-tuftsin depressed microbial growth in the kidneys of mice bearing S-180 tumors. Rabbit peritoneal macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes were harvested by intraperitoneal injection of liquid paraffin and of glycogen solution, respectively. For in vitro study of phagocytosis, rabbit macrophages of polymorphonuclear leukocytes were incubated in Hanks solution together with S. aureus and the number of survivors was determined. Enhanced engulfing activity of macrophages and increased bactericidal activity of polymorphonuclear leukocytes were shown by the in vitro phagocytosis experiments. It is expected that 4 [lys]-tuftsin will be effective against infectious disease, especially in immunocompromised hosts such as patients with malignant tumors.
A mechanism for the stimulation by inorganic mercury of [3H] thymidine incorporation into DNA in cultured Molt-4F cells.	Mercuric chloride at a narrow range of concentration (2 to 2.5 X 10(-5)M) facilitated [3H]thymidine incorporation into acid-insoluble material (DNA fraction) of cultured human T lymphoid cells, Molt-4F, after 72-hr culture with the metal. This effect by mercury was observed in spite of the decrease in growth rate and DNA contents of the cells. Thymidine kinase activity in Molt-4F cells treated with 2 X 10(-5)M mercury decreased to 50 to 60% of the control activity. The stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into the cells by mercury, therefore, might be independent of the increase in thymidine kinase activity. 3H-Thymidine incorporation by the control cells decreased as culture time passed. In contrast to the control, [3H]thymidine incorporation by mercury-treated cells increased until 72-hr culture. [3H]Thymidine uptake by the control cells after 24, 48, or 72-hr culture increased until 20 min of incubation period, but thereafter no increase in the uptake was observed until 60 min. On the other hand, [3H]thymidine uptake by the cells treated with mercury for 24 to 72 hr increased linearly until 60 min of incubation period. These results seemed to indicate that the mercury stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation might be attributable not to the actual increase of DNA synthesis but to the suppression of the culture time-dependent decrease in the incorporation by the control cells.
Effects of (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine on proliferation of human fibroblasts, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and granulocyte-monocyte progenitor cells in vitro.	Inhibition of human fibroblasts, granulocyte-monocyte progenitor cells, and lymphocytes was observed at (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine concentrations ranging from 21 to 197 micrograms/ml. These concentrations were 10- to 100-fold above usual serum concentrations after oral administration. (E)-5-(2-Bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine compares favorably with currently used antivirals in terms of in vitro myelotoxicity and immunotoxicity.
Estradiol and 3 H-thymidine incorporation in cultured human cancer cells (breast-endometrium)]	Nuclear incorporation of 3 H-Thymidine is widely used as a measure of DNA synthesis and cell proliferation. We have studied by this way the growth-stimulating action of estrogens on a human breast cancer cell line (FAM). We have observed discrepancies between 3 H-Thymidine incorporation and true cell proliferation: after estradiol treatment, we have noted increased incorporation of DNA precursor but no change in the cell number. Our preliminary results show that there was no increase of the size of nuclei, no increase of the DNA content. So, there is a need for a cell number control of results recording a growth promoting activity when only based on 3 H-Thymidine incorporation. A biochemical explanation of this discrepancy is submitted.
Viability of human chorionic villi in organ culture]	The method and technique of organ culture of human chorionic villi was elaborated in our laboratory. In this report, placental specimens obtained at 15 to 18 weeks of gestation were studied in organ culture for 7 days in terms of the maintenance of morphological integrity and the preservation of functions. The morphological aspect of the viability of the various villous elements with special emphasis on the trophoblast cells was described histologically and ultrastructurally. The functional aspect of the viability was discussed by analysis of the suppressive effect of the cultivated villi on plasminogen activator (PA) secretion by OK-432 elicited mouse peritoneal macrophages, by analyses of the activity of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase coupled with delta 5-delta 4-isomerase (HSD) and of the radioactivity of [125I]-Iododeoxyuridine ( [125I]-IUdR) retained in the DNA of the trophoblast cells. Specimens of normal placenta were obtained at the time of induced abortion. The gestational ages were 15, 16 and 18 weeks. Specimens for organ culture were prepared under sterile conditions within one hour after expulsion of the placenta. Through gross dissection, the villi were isolated and minced into fragments of approximately 1 to 2 mm3. Incubation was carried out at 37 degrees C in a conventional static chamber with a gas mixture of 95% air, 5% CO2. The culture dishes and culture media were renewed every day. Data are the mean values of the duplicate incubations. In the first series of organ culture, placental fragments were removed at the end of each day of incubation, washed thoroughly and transferred to the new dishes with a culture medium freed from fetal bovine serum, where further incubation was performed for 24 hours. After this, placental fragments were fixed in 4% neutral buffered formalin, processed through paraffin embedding, serially sectioned at 5 micron and stained by periodic-acid Schiff (PAS) procedure. Culture medium obtained in this series at each end of incubation was put into a "macrophage plate" with the addition of plasminogen in the concentration of 2 IU/m1, in which OK-432 elicited mouse peritoneal macrophages with the capacity to secrete PA were cultured. Reaction was terminated at 24 hours unless otherwise indicated. Ten microliters of the medium in the "macrophage plate" was applied to the fibrin plate, and reaction was performed for 18 hours. PA activity was expressed by plasmin activity converted from plasminogen measured by the single radial immuno-diffusion method.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cell cycles of cancer cells and chemotherapy--flow cytometric observation of the effects of chemotherapeutic agents on cell kinetics of cultured human lung cancer cells]	The necessity to assess the influence of chemotherapeutic agents on cell cycle kinetics has been stressed for development of effective cancer chemotherapy. Effects of these agents on cell cycle progression in cultured human lung cancer cells, PC-3 (adeno) and PC-6 (small cell), were studied by flow cytometry (FCM) with computer analysis. DNA distributions of the cells stained with propidium iodide were expressed numerically. Firstly the influence of adriamycin (ADR), then methotrexate (MTX), and finally, sequential combined chemotherapy with ADR and MTX on cell cycle kinetics were examined. The results are summarized as follows. Exposure to ADR induced concentration dependent cell killing effect in PC-3 and PC-6, while exposure to MTX showed mainly time dependent cell growth inhibition. By FCM, difference of effect of ADR between those two cell types was certified. Namely, in PC-3 low ADR concentration lead to G2 accumulation with decrease of G0/G1, polyploization, and high ADR concentration to S accumulation due to S-G2/M delay. Furthermore, in the highest ADR concentration (10 micrograms/ml), G1, G1-S boundary accumulation were observed. On the contrary, exposure of PC-6 to ADR remained to show only G2 accumulation with a slight decrease of G0/G1. Exposure of PC-6 to MTX lead to G2/M decrease with delay of G0/G1-S progression followed by S accumulation which was ascribed to delay of S-G2/M progression. Sequential combined chemotherapy showed superiority of MTX-ADR to ADR-MTX and other regimens in cytocidal effect, and the difference might be attributable to induction of partial synchronization to G0/G1-S boundary with MTX exposure. It was emphasized that FCM is a indispensable method for analysis of the influence of chemotherapeutic agents on cell cycle kinetics.
The effect of steroids on the circulating lymphocyte population. V. Effect of prednisolone treatment on cell size and life span of the thoracic duct lymphocyte population in normal and neonatally thymectomized rats. A radioisotope study.	Using 3H-TdR isotope labelling in vivo, the effect of a high corticosteroid dose was correlated to cell size and life span of thoracic duct lymphocytes in rats. The lymphocytopenia in thoracic duct lymph during the involution phase (3 hrs after treatment) was a marked depletion of small lymphocytes, followed by a restitution to pretreatment cell levels within one day. The original lymphocyte population had a higher per cent of labelled small lymphocytes (50%) in comparison to the returning population which contained fewer (35%) small labelled cells. Label index (i.e. labelled cells of a certain cell size in percent of total cell number) was unchanged for all cell sizes during both involution and restitution phases. This unchanged label index profile as well as an earlier described unchanged cell size distribution support the hypothesis of lymphocyte trapping and redistribution as a major effect of a single prednisolone dose. The decrease of labelled small lymphocytes in the returning cell population can, however, also agree with a minor lymphocytolytic effect on circulating small lymphocytes. Our data do not support the hypothesis of two different lymphocyte populations with different life span. Neither could a redistribution of lymphocytes be found in any lymphoid tissue compartment or in femur bone marrow, during the involution phase after corticosteroid treatment.
Purines stimulate chick neuroblasts proliferation in culture.	Neuroblasts from cerebral hemispheres of 6-day-old chick embryo are able to divide to a certain extent under suitable culture conditions. It was found that addition of purine bases to the culture medium induced an increase of tritiated thymidine incorporation into the cells, resulting from a stimulation of neuroblast proliferation. Most purines elicited a stimulation, but guanine compounds were the most active. Inosinic acid (IMP), the first purine synthesized, was also active. Folic acid was inactive. These results suggest that neuroblasts in culture are defective in the biosynthesis of purines and that this deficiency is not due to a lack of folic acid. Some other cell types were also tested including glial cells, meningeal cells, whole embryo fibroblasts and heart fibroblasts. Only the latter did not respond to purine bases. These observations show that different cell types in primary culture need exogenous purines for maximal growth.
Partial characterization of the gastrointestinal weight changes produced in the female rat by 16,16-dimethylprostaglandin E2.	Oral and subcutaneous administration of 16,16-dimethylprostaglandin E2 (16,16-dimethyl PGE2) resulted in an increase in the dry weight of the stomach and small intestine of the female rat. This weight response was rapid, controlled rather than continuously progressing, dose dependent and reversible. The dry weight of the colon also increased but this was not studied in detail. Two-day treatment with 16,16-dimethyl PGE2 caused an increase in the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into the duodenum, jejunum and colon suggesting an increase in cell number. Incorporation into the stomach and ileum was not changed. The number of goblet cells per crypt was increased by prostaglandin treatment in all parts of the small intestine. Since these are mucus producing cells, the small intestine may have increased in cell number and mucus production. Both anti-secretory and cytoprotective doses of 16,16-dimethyl PGE2 caused weight increases in the stomach and small intestine. However, the weight gain by itself was not sufficient to protect the stomach or small intestine from necrotic agents after the prostaglandin was discontinued.
Assessment of mitogenesis of the hormone-responsive NMU rat mammary tumor grown in culture in soft agar, using 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA.	We have recently shown that the soft agar clonogenic assay is suitable for growing the hormone-responsive N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU) rat mammary tumor and for evaluating the factors affecting its growth. In order to improve our assessment of tumor mitogenesis beyond simple colony counting, we have validated and characterized in our system the use of 3H-thymidine (3H-ThD) incorporation of DNA. In time-course studies, we observed that in most tumors an initial peak of 3H-ThD uptake occurred on day 1 after plating followed by a decline in counts on day 2 and a second peak on day 3. 3H-ThD incorporation was markedly diminished on day 4 and 6 when maximal colony formation occurred. In experiments where NMU rat mammary tumors were plated at different cell concentrations, we observed that increasing the number of cells plated resulted in a parallel increase in counts on day 1 and colonies on day 6. Overall, a highly significant correlation was observed between 3H-ThD uptake and colony formation (r = 0.86, p less than 0.001). These results demonstrate that the 3H-ThD incorporation assay is a fast and effective method for assessing mitogenesis of hormone-responsive NMU mammary tumors grown in the soft agar clonogenic assay.
Influence of mitoxantrone on nucleic acid synthesis on the T-47D breast tumor cell line.	Mitoxantrone exerts growth inhibitory effects, suppresses [3H]-thymidine as well as [3H]-uridine incorporation, and induces ultrastructural alterations in T-47D human breast tumor cells. At low concentration (10(-9)M) the drug induced little effect on cell proliferation; cell growth kinetics were inhibited at a concentration of 10(-5)M. [3H]-thymidine and [3H]-uridine incorporation declined rapidly at the concentrations tested (10(-9), 10(-7), and 10(-5) M), revealing a potent effect on metabolic activity of the cultured cells. The sharpest decline in DNA and RNA synthesis occurred within the first 2 hr of drug treatment. Serial ultrastructural examinations indicated definitive alterations in chromatin structure, disintegration of nucleolar components as early as 2 hr after drug treatment, and complete segregation of nucleolar components following 8-hr exposure to concentrations of the drug between 10(-5) and 10(-7) M. A distinct increase in the density of mitochrondrial matrix was evident. The in vitro data presented in this report demonstrate the growth inhibitory and antimetabolic effects of mitoxantrone on human breast tumor cells and suggest that the drug may be a promising antitumor agent.
Brain DNA metabolism in myelin deficient mutant jp, jpmsd and qk mice.	We studied metabolism of brain DNA in three myelin deficient mutants qk, jp and jpmsd mice. The DNA content, the in vivo incorporation of [14C]thymidine in DNA and the activity of acid DNase in tissues (cerebellum and cerebrum) from normal littermates and affected mice were compared. The results showed that neither the DNA content, the incorporation of [14C]thymidine in DNA nor the activity of acid DNase in brain were altered in qk affected mice. In jpmsd mice, however, the DNA content as well as the incorporation of thymidine in DNA were reduced in both cerebellum and cerebrum, but the activity of acid DNase was reduced in cerebrum only. In jp mice, although the DNA content was reduced in both cerebellum and cerebrum, the incorporation of thymidine in DNA and the activity of acid DNase were reduced in cerebrum only. The data suggest a) that in qk mutants DNA metabolism and hence cell (glial) proliferation is not affected; b) that in jpmsd mutants DNA synthesis, and thus the cell proliferation is reduced in cerebellum as well as in cerebrum of the affected mice and c) that in jp mutants the synthesis of DNA and the cell proliferation is reduced in cerebrum but not in cerebellum.
Density-dependent inhibition of growth: fractionation of inhibitory diffusible factor(s) released by dense cultures of 3T3 cells.	Different data have suggested that the density-dependent inhibition of growth in normal 3T3 cells is due to the release of inhibitory factor(s) into the medium. The present results provide more evidence supporting this hypothesis. From conditioned medium of dense cultures of 3T3 cells, we fractionated a thermolabile inhibitory diffusible factor (I.D.F.) with a molecular weight of about 40.000 This factor decreased the [11C]-inosine incorporation into purine nucleotides and into nucleic acids of stimulated 3T3 cells. DNA synthesis, determined by [11C]-thymidine incorporation into nucleic acids, and protein synthesis (determined by the protein content of the cultures maintained in the presence or absence of I.D.F.), were also decreased. The possibility that I.D.F. is involved in density-dependent inhibition of growth is discussed.
Acute respiratory bronchiolitis: an ultrastructural and autoradiographic study of epithelial cell injury and renewal in rhesus monkeys exposed to ozone.	The pathogenesis of acute respiratory bronchiolitis was examined in rhesus monkeys exposed to 0.8 ppm ozone fpr 4--50 hours. Epithelial injury and renewal was qualitatively and quantitatively characterized by correlated techniques of scanning and transmission electron microscopy as well as by light-microscopic autoradiography following labeling with tritiated thymidine. Extensive degeneration and necrosis of Type 1 epithelial cells occurred on the respiratory bronchiolar wall during the initial 4--12 hours of exposure. Increased numbers of labeled epithelial cells were present in this region after 18 hours of exposure, and the highest labeling index (18% was measured after 50 hours of exposure. Most (67--80%) of the labeled cells and all the mitotic epithelial cells (22) observed ultrastructurally were cuboidal bronchiolar epithelial cells. Of the labeled epithelial cells, 20--33% were Type 2 epithelial cells. After 50 hours of exposure the respiratory bronchiolar epithelium was hyperplastic. The predominant inflammatory cell in respiratory bronchiolar exudate was the alveolar macrophage. Monkeys that were exposed for 50 hours and allowed to recover in unozonized air for 7 days had incomplete resolution of respiratory bronchiolar epithelial hyperplasia. The results indicate that Type 1 epithelial cells lining respiratory bronchioles are the cell type most sensitive to injury and that both cuboidal bronchiolar epithelial cells and Type 2 epithelial cells function as stem cells in epithelial renewal.
A human lymphocyte mitogen extracted from the extracellular slime layer of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Slime glycolipoprotein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa has been found to exert a mitogenic effect on human peripheral blood and cord blood lymphocytes. The optimal concentration of glycolipoprotein was shown to be in the range of 100--200 micrograms/ml, and maximal incorporation of [14C]thymidine was seen on the fourth day of lymphocyte cultures.
Drosophila nuclei replicate in Xenopus eggs.	Nuclei isolated from a permanent cell line derived from Drosophila melanogaster embryos have been injected, along with a radioactive DNA precursor [3H]TTP, into Xenopus laevis eggs. In culture, less than 7% of the cells were in S phase. After a 90 min incubation, following injection into eggs, 99% of the nuclei were shown by autoradiography to have synthesized DNA. In a similar experiment, a density label BrdUTP was injected into eggs along with the nuclei. Subsequent analysis on caesium chloride gradients showed that this DNA synthesis was semi-conservative replication. Therefore we conclude that signals present in Xenopus egg cytoplasm can initiate and sustain true semi-conservative DNA replication in nuclei from an invertebrate organism.
Early biochemical events associated with lymphocyte activation in ageing. I. Evidence that Ca2+ dependent processes induced by PHA are impaired.	The requirement for Ca2+, a divalent ion which plays a fundamental role in cell activation, has been analysed in cultures of PHA-stimulated human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PHA-PBL) from adult (range: 20-35 years) and old (over 70 years) subjects. For this purpose, increasing concentrations of Ca2+ chelators (EGTA and EDTA) were added to cultures in order to compare the effect of progressive extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+EC) depletion on [3H]-Tdr incorporation by PHA-PBL. Kinetic analysis showed that Ca2+EC requirement was restricted to the first 24 h after culture initiation. At optimal doses of PHA, the PHA-PBL from old subjects were more sensitive than those from adult subjects to increasing concentrations of both chelators. They also required larger amounts of Ca2+ supplements to restore their normal response after total inhibition by EGTA. Furthermore, the PHA-PBL from the elderly were hypersensitive to verapamil (Isoptin), a drug which instigates a reversible inhibition of Ca2+-dependent processes associated with lymphocyte transformation, by a quite similar reaction to that induced by chelators. We conclude that the Ca2+-dependent processes in lymphocyte activation are impaired with ageing. Following further experiments and recent work suggesting that lymphocytes need more than one signal to proliferate, the authors speculate on a deficiency of a late activation signal requiring cell-cell interactions in the elderly.
Inhibition of thymidylate synthase by hydroxyurea in rapidly proliferating P815 mastocytoma cells.	The incorporation of [14C]deoxycytidine, [3H]deoxyuridine, and [3H]thymidine, respectively into pyrimidine bases of DNA has been measured in rapidly proliferating P815 mouse mastocytoma cells in the presence of hydroxyurea. The incorporation of [14C]deoxycytidine-derived radioactivity into DNA cytosines is increased when compared to the incorporation into DNA thymines. The [3H]deoxyuridine-derived radioactivity is incorporated solely into DNA thymines and this incorporation is inhibited by hydroxyurea in a dose-dependent manner. This suggests an inhibitory effect of hydroxyurea on the thymidylate synthase which was proved in experiments in which the conversion of deoxyuridine monophosphate into deoxythymidine monophosphate catalysed by a crude enzyme preparation from P815 cells was inhibited in the presence of hydroxyurea. Enzymatic DNA methylation as measured by the conversion of incorporated [14C]deoxycytidine into 5-methylcytosines was not affected by hydroxyurea.
Mode of action of polyethylene glycol 6000 in potentiating the in vitro generation of antitumor cytotoxicity by MOPC-315 tumor bearer spleen cells.	Some of the possible mechanisms by which polyethylene glycol (PEG) augments the ability of MOPC-315 tumor bearer spleen cells to mediate in vitro antitumor cytotoxicity were evaluated. The level of antitumor cytotoxicity obtained in 5-day cultures of tumor bearer spleen cell suspensions correlated inversely with the percentage of Trinitrophenol (TNP)-rosettable cells (presumably metastatic tumor cells) present in the spleen. The kinetics of decrease in the percentage of TNP-rosettable cells coincided with the appearance of antitumor cytotoxicity. In addition, PEG was shown to interfere with the ability of viable tumor cells to suppress the in vitro generation of antitumor cytotoxicity in normal spleen cells cultured with mitomycin C-treated tumor cells. However, the decrease in the content of TNP-rosettable cells and the concurrent increase in the level of antitumor cytotoxicity were not due to direct cytotoxic and/or cytostatic effects of PEG on tumor cells. Spleen cells cultured in the presence of PEG had an increased rate of [3H]thymidine incorporation and proliferation compared to spleen cells cultured in the absence of PEG. However, the PEG-induced decrease in the percentage of TNP-rosettable cells either preceded or occurred at the same time that the PEG-induced increase in spleen cell number was observed. Therefore, spleen cell proliferation can at best explain only partially the PEG-induced decrease in the content of TNP-rosettable cells, and other mechanisms for the decrease must be considered.
Further evidence in support of cell-surface-associated deoxyribonucleic acid in tumor cells: an autoradiographic study.	Ascites sarcoma-180 cells, when stained with platinum-pyrimidine complexes as the sole electron dense stain, show distinct dense patches to granular appearance on the surface of the plasma membrane which has been suggested to be attributable to deoxyribonucleic acid. Swiss Webster mice, 4-5 weeks of age, weighing 24-26 g with 4 X 10(6) ascites sarcoma-180 cells when injected with 3 X 7.0 micronC of tritiated thymidine on day 5 of the tumor implant, show specific labeling on the plasma membrane surface. The photopositive silver grain distribution in both the light and electron microscope autoradiograms when followed from the nucleus outwards show a distinct peak over the nucleus and the plasma membrane. The quantity and origin and role of this surface-associated deoxyribonucleic acid is not clear.
Human endothelial cell proliferation inhibiting activity in the sera of patients suffering from 'shock' or 'sepsis'.	The response of DNA-synthesis of human endothelial cells to sera derived from twenty-five patients suffering from 'sepsis' or 'shock' was measured by autoradiographic methods. In eight cases a constant decrease in proliferative response was found compared to that of sera from healthy donors. These proliferation values were shown to lie below the '60%-of-control-line'. The difference between the means of control and of corresponding 'low-response' values was significant (P less than 0.05). In three cases a diminished response was caused only by some of several serum samples taken at different times. These results correlated well with the clinical state and outcome of patients but not with any of the over sixty clinical, therapeutic, laboratory and post-mortem parameters of investigation. Evidence is presented for a proliferation inhibiting activity in sera of patients in clinically poor states, and some physico-chemical properties of this 'factor' are described. Lethal injury to the cells or an impairment of cellular migration could not be observed within the observation periods used in this study.
Properties of a cell-culture line derived from lymphosarcoma P1798.	A cell culture line has been derived from lymphosarcoma P1798. Cells will not divide in the prescence of 10(-8) M dexamethasone. Half-maximal inhibition of proliferation occurs at about 10(-9) M. Half-maximal inhibition of [3H] thymidine incorporation occurs at somewhat higher concentrations of dexamethasone. When cells are cultured in the presence of 2 x 10(-7) M dexamethasone they remain 88% viable after 5 days. No decrease in cell number occurs. These cells can be rescued by in vivo passage, and they responded in culture to dexamethasone in exactly the same fashion as do untreated cells. Both dexamethasone rescued and untreated cultured cells contain about 104 dexamethasone receptor sites which bind with a dissociation constant of 4 x 10(-9) M. Cultured cells retain the ability to proliferate both subcutaneously and in ascites. The properties of such tumors resemble those of the parental tumor cell lines.
B-lymphocytes activation by the Fc region of IgG.	Strong stimulation of DNA synthesis (up to 150-fold) and blast transformation can be induced in mouse spleen cells by Fc fragments of human IgG. The mitogenic response is optimal on day 5 of culture and is dependent on the concentration of Fc fragments with a sedimentation rate of 3-5S. Intact IgG is also stimulatory, but only when modified by heat aggregation, and produces only a 10-fold increase in [3H]thymidine uptake. The stimulation by aggregated IgG is dependent on the Fc portion, since aggregated (or soluble) Fab or F(ab')2 fragments are inactive. The results show that the response is T-cell independent and that it is a function of nylon wool adherent, surface Ig-positive, Fc receptor-bearing B lymphocytes. Fc fragments do not induce plaque-forming cells to human IgG in normal mouse spleen cell cultures, but rather trigger polyclonal antibody synthesis (anti-goat erythrocytes, anti-2,4,6-trinitrophenyl). It is postulated that the Fc region of antibodies plays a role in the regulation of the humoral immune response by triggering clonal expansion of B lymphocytes.
The effects of alkyl-lysophospholipids on leukemic cell lines. I. Differential action on two human leukemic cell lines, HL60 and K562.	The action of an alkyl-lysophospholipid (ALP), ET180CH3, on clonogenicity, 3H-TdR uptake, and cell numbers was tested in two human leukemic cell lines, HL60 and K562, and short-term human leukemic bone marrow cultures. ALP eliminated clonogenicity in HL60 but not in K562 cultures; 3H-TdR uptake and cell numbers were depressed at low concentrations of ET180CH3 in HL60, but not K562 cultures. The action of the lysophospholipid analog on human leukemic bone marrow short-term cultures at low concentrations was similar to its action on HL60 cultures; clonogenicity and 3H-TdR uptake were depressed, but cell numbers were not significantly affected. The demonstration of differential action of ALP on two cell lines should significantly simplify the investigation of the mechanism of the reported differential action of ET180CH3 on normal and leukemic cell membranes.
Autoradiographic in vitro study of the cell kinetics of osteogenic sarcomas and Ewing's sarcomas in children.	Proliferation kinetic parameters of 9 osteogenic sarcomas (6 primary tumours, 3 lung metastases) and 3 Ewing's sarcomas were determined using an autoradiographic in vitro method (single and double labelling with 3H- and 14C-thymidine, and 3H-uridine). Osteogenic sarcomas and Ewing's sarcomas, respectively, showed clearly individual pattern of proliferation. The following values were obtained: The average 3H-thymidine labelling indices of 13.8/8.7%, the DNA synthesis times of 12.2/14.4 hours, mitosis times of 1.1/1.9 hours, and mean cell cycle times of 58.0/78.2 hours. The potential tumour doubling times determined with the inclusion of the growth fraction averaged 4.8/5.0 days. Using 3H-uridine labelling of tumours, autoradiography allowed the determination of the growth fraction fair accuracy. It is between 0.26 and 0.71 for osteogenic sarcomas, the average being 0.49. In vitro results were compared with the volume doubling times of metastases of osteogenic and Ewing's sarcomas, reported in the literature which had been determined from series of lung radiographs. The importance of cell kinetic studies of human tumours therapy is demonstrated by a "cell kinetic therapy index".
Relationship of pretreatment lymphoblast proliferative activity and prognosis in 97 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	We have analyzed the pretreatment 3H-thymidine labeling indices in blood and marrow blast cells from 97 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and circulating blasts. The median marrow labeling index (LI) was 6.2% (range 0.8%--32.7%) and the median blood LI, 3.2% (range 0.3%--20%). Blood LI was significantly correlated with leukocyte count and rosette-forming (E+) lymphoblasts but not with central nervous system leukemia or thymic mass at diagnosis. Marrow LI was related to E+ blasts only. In children with E+ leukemia, both blood and marrow LIs were significantly higher than values for other ALL subtypes (p less than 0.01) excluding undifferentiated ALL, which was characterized by an increased blood LI. Eighteen patients had a blood LI that either equaled or exceeded the marrow LI; apart from age, the clinical features, blast phenotypes, and treatment responses of this group were similar to those of patients with blood LI less than marrow LI. Among 51 patients assessed for treatment response, the estimated median length of remission was significantly shorter for those with a blood LI greater than 4% (p = 0.002) or a marrow LI greater than 6% (p = 0.011). By Cox-regression analysis, the pretreatment proliferative activity of blood and marrow blasts, unlike other initial features studied, added significant prognostic information to leukocyte count in these patients with circulating blasts. The findings provide a cogent explanation for the differential clinical responsiveness of commonly recognized ALL subclasses.
New evidences for the role of secretory ameloblasts in the removal of proline labelled proteins from young enamel as visualized by autoradiography.	Eight mice (M. musculus, albinus), two hours old, were sacrificed from 1 to 168 hours following the administration of a single dose of 1 microCi/g body weight of 3H-Thymidine. An other group of six mice received a single dose of 5 microCi/g body weight of 3H-Proline and the animals were killed from 20 min. to 120 h after the injection. The unfixed hemi-jaws containing one incisor tooth, were processed to obtain frozen cross serial sections. With time, as the tooth grows, the 3H-Thymidine labelled ameloblasts move away from the apical end of the incisor at a daily rate of 550 micrometer. By determining the silver grains content over ameloblasts and related enamel matrix in animals which received 3H-Proline, using serial sections separated from each other by 550 micrometers, it was shown that : 1) The silver grains concentration over secretory ameloblasts, which was maximum 20 min. after 3H-Proline administration, showed a decrease after 24 h and a new increase between 48 and 72 h and a further decrease at later time intervals ; 2) such second reactive peak was not observed in post-secretory ameloblasts; 3) the radioactive reaction over the enamel matrix after reaching a maximum 24 h after the injection, decreased at 48 h and another increase in radioactivity was detected at 96 h when the matrix moved incisally but was still related to secretory ameloblasts. The results were interpreted as indicative of the participation of the secretory ameloblasts in the removal of proline-containing protein, which can be considered either as one of the steps of enamel maturation, or also as evidence of a distinct process by which there would be a partial turnover of the organic matter in young enamel.
Circadian phase-dependent stimulatory effects of epidermal growth factor on deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, caecum, colon, and rectum of the adult male mouse.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) previously isolated from the submandibular salivary glands of mice was injected ip at five different circadian phases into separate sub-groups of adult male CD2F1 mice that had been standardized to 12 h of light alternating with 12 h of darkness. Comparable control groups were injected only with the carrier substance. Four, 8, and 12 h after each of the five injection times, subgroups of five mice were killed. Thirty minutes before sacrifice, each mouse was injected ip with 24 mu Ci tritiated thymidine ([3H]-TdR). Incorporation of [3H]TdR into the DNA of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, colon, and rectum was determined. The results demonstrate for the first time that EGF has a stimulatory effect on DNA synthesis in these tissues, particularly in the colon and rectum. Under the conditions of this study, the stimulatory effects of EGF on DNA synthesis in the cecum, colon, and rectum were more dramatic than those in the three regions of the small intestine; in fact, DNA synthesis in the latter was occasionally statistically significantly decreased, particularly for mice killed during the dark phase. Stimulatory effects of EGF on DNA synthesis in the cecum, colon, and rectum were noticed as early as 4 h after injection; however, maximal stimulation occurred 8 and 12 h post injection.
Variation in the synthesis of membrane proteins of human T lymphocytes during mitogenic activation: recognition of a 70,000 dalton protein with anti-p23,30 heteroantiserum and a novel 42,000 dalton protein with anti-p44,12 heteroantiserum.	Membrane proteins of [35S]methionine-labeled, human T lymphocytes were analyzed by SDS polyacrylamide gradient slab gel electrophoresis and autoradiography each day during a 6-day period of activation with phytohemagglutinin or with concanavalin A. This process was characterized by the novel appearance and limited duration of synthesis of many proteins, in particular of 30, 35, 48, 50, and 55 kilodalton molecules in the early days of blast transformation and subsequently of 120, 125, 135, and 145 kilodalton proteins. The HLAA-A,-B antigens and beta 2-microglobulin, as recognized by anti-p44,12 serum, were synthesized by both resting and mitogen-activated T cells on each day of culture. But, an additional 42-kilodalton protein was recognized with this same antiserum on days 4 and 5 of activation. A 70-kilodalton protein, immunoprecipitated by anti-p23,30 (anti-HLA-protein, immunoprecipitated by anti-p23,30 (anti-HLA-DR) heteroantiserum, was synthesized principally on days 2 and 4 of mitogenic transformation. This molecule was absent from normal, resting T cells, the T cell line, CCRF-CEM, and the B cell line, Raji. In a parallel test, the same anti-p23,30 serum detected the conventional HLA-DR bimolecular glycoprotein complex of 29 and 34 kilodaltons in nonionic detergent solubilized Raji B cell membrane preparations. This study described in detail the molecular changes in the membrane proteins of activated T lymphocytes and included the definition of novel forms of HLA-A,B and HLA-DR associated molecules.
T and B-cell activation by mitogenic factor generated from antigen-stimulated lymphocytes.	Guinea-pig mitogenic factor(s) were found capable of stimulating both normal T and B cells. Preliminary physicochemical characterization could not dissociate the mitogenic factors for respective cell populations. Furthermore, both immune T and B cells could produce mitogenic factors upon stimulation with antigen in contrast to some other lymphokines which are known to be produced only by immune T cells. While T-cell-derived mitogenic factor was active on both allogenic T and B cells, it was only mitogenic to syngeneic B cells and not to syngeneic T cells. B-cell-derived factor, on the other hand, could stimulate both T and B cells either of syngeneic or allogeneic origin.
The effect of phorbol-myristate acetate and concanavalin A on the growth of interleukin-2-dependent T-cell lines.	We tested the effect of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and of Con A on the growth of two Il-2 dependent T cell-lines. Il-2 dependent growth, as measured by 3H-TDR incorporation or viable cell counts was enhanced by PMA (5-100 ng/ml) and inhibited by Con A. These effects were only reproducible in the presence of intermediate concentrations of Il-2 containing supernatant. The enhancing effect of PMA was probably due to a positive influence on the replication rate since the drug had no visible effect on cell survival and since no evidence was found for the induction of Il-2 production by the cell-lines.
Lymphocyte recirculation in the sheep fetus.	The numbers of circulating thymus-derived and surface Ig-bearing lymphocytes in the fetal lamb increase exponentially over the last third of gestation. Experiments in which [3H]thymidine was continuously infused into fetal lambs have established that these cells are long-lived in the fetus. The migration of 51Cr-labelled autologous lymphocytes from intestinal or prescapular lymph was compared in fetal lambs and adult sheep. A subpopulation of thymus-derived lymphocytes present in intestinal lymph of adults which migrated preferentially to the small intestine was not found in fetal intestinal lymph. There were marked differences in the migration of fetal and adult lymphocytes to the lungs and liver. In spite of the absence of circulating antibodies or immunoglobulins and of extrinsic antigen in the immunologically virgin sheep fetus, the circulation of lymphocytes through the spleen and lymph nodes of fetal lambs was more intense than in the adult, indicating that the pathways of recirculation and the capacity of cells to recirculate arise as a physiological process independently of antigenic stimulation.
Measurement of mitogen stimulation of lymphocytes with a glucose consumption test.	The increase of glycolysis in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes was used to quantify lymphoblast transformation. Results correlated well with those by common methods, i.e. morphological evaluation and [3H]thymidine incorporation. The advantage of the glucose consumption test is that it registers the entire event of lymphocyte proliferation whereas other methods evaluate only viable transformed cells at the end of culture.
Studies into the mechanism of reversal of experimental acute hepatic failure by hepatocyte transplantation. 1.	The authors reported previously that single cell suspensions of syngeneic, allogeneic and xenogeneic hepatocytes can significantly improve survival in a rat model of acute hepatic failure induced by D-galactosamine. This report explores the mechanism by which hepatocyte transplantation reverses the toxin-induced hepatic necrosis. Radioautographic studies indicated that intraperitoneally administered hepatocytes labelled with tritiated thymidine did not repopulate the injured recipient liver. Hepatocytes irradiated with 10 000 rad (i.e., the cells were nonreplicating) also resulted in a significant (P less than 0.001) increase in animal survival when given to rats treated with D-galactosamine. Experiments with subcellular fractions of hepatocytes demonstrated that an intact cell was not required and that a heat stable "factor" (or factors) present in the cytosol fraction, which is not insulin or glucagon, is responsible for the increase in survival observed. This factor appears to increase the rate of endogenous regeneration of the injured recipient liver.
Effect of caffeine on nucleotide pools in Escherichia coli.	The influence of caffeine on the intracellular concentration of various nucleoside triphosphates in addition do dTMP and dTDP, in Escherichia coli has been investigated. For most of the nucleoside triphosphates the presence of 10 mM caffeine in the medium resulted in a small increase in pool size 5 min after addition, followed by a slow decrease to the initial concentration. In the case of dTTP, however, the pool size reached a maximum, 2-fold higher than the initial value, 30 min after caffeine addition. This increase in dTTP level is probably due to an effect of caffeine on the DNA synthesis process and synthesis of dTDP-sugars.
Circadian stage-dependent effects of insulin and glucagon on incorporation of [3H]thymidine into deoxyribonucleic acid in the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, caecum, colon, rectum, and spleen of the adult female mouse.	Insulin and glucagon were injected ip at four different circadian states into separate subgroups of female adult BALB/Cann mice that had been standardized to 12 h of light alternating with 12 h of darkness. Comparable control subgroups were injected with saline. Four, 8, 12, and 18 h after each of the four injections, subgroups of seven mice that had been injected 30 min earlier with tritiated thymidine ([4H]TdR) were killed; a total of 336 mice were used. The incorporation of [3H]TdR into DNA of the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, caecum, colon, rectum, and spleen was subsequently determined. The results demonstrate for the first time that both hormones affect the incorporation of [3H]TdR into DNA in all of the examined organs but in different ways and at different circadian stages. The effects of these hormones were complex, but several generalizations emerged. 1) Insulin tended to increase the incorporation of [3H]TdR into DNA in the examined organs, whereas glucagon tended to decrease it. 2) Insulin was more effective in stimulating the incorporation of [3H]TdR into DNA when injected either at the end of the dark span or the beginning of the light span, as opposed to the end of the light span or the beginning of the dark span. 3) Insulin had its greatest effect on [3H]TdR incorporation into DNA in the glandular stomach and rectum, whereas glucagon had its greatest effect on the colon and spleen. 4) The effects of both insulin and glucagon were different from those of epidermal growth factor, as revealed in a similar study done by us. Our results suggest that insulin, glucagon, and epidermal growth factor play important roles in the control of growth of various endodermally derived organs.
Restoration of allograft responsiveness in B rats by interleukin 2 and/or adherent cells.	LEW X BN)F1 cardiac allografts survive 1 wk in unmodified LEW recipients (MST +/- SD = 8.3 +/- 1.2 days) but indefinitely (greater than 100 days) in B rats, produced by 750 R sublethal x-radiation 3 to 4 wk after adult thymectomy and reconstitution with syngeneic bone marrow cells from thymectomized thoracic duct-drained donors. Graft survival appears independent of blocking antibodies and is not mediated by suppressor cells or loss of graft immunogenicity. The unresponsive state is eventually reversed by adoptive transfer of 10(8) spleen cells from  nonimmune (MST +/- SD = 27.5 +/- 4.7 days) or alloimmune (MST +/- SD = 21.5 +/- 1.9 days) syngeneic animals. In contrast, concomitant administration of 2 X 10(7) thioglycollate-stimulated peritoneal exudate adherent cells plus 10(8) alloimmune syngeneic spleen cells produced acute allograft rejection in 50% of B recipients within 10 to 12 days, while in every instance grafts underwent acute rejection (MST +/- SD = 10.0 +/- 1.4 days) in B recipients treated with interleukin 2 (IL 2) rich conditioned supernatant plus sensitized cells. In vitro studies revealed that adherent cells from B rats possessed less than 50% the capacity of adherent cells from normal animals either to support the Con A-stimulated uptake of 3H-thymidine by splenic T cells or to promote production of IL 2 by spleen cells depleted of adherent cells. Altered lymphocyte migration patterns in B recipients may also contribute to prolonged allograft survival secondary to adherent cell dysfunction.
Lysosomotropic agents. 4. Carbobenzoxyglycylphenylalanyl, a new protease-sensitive masking group for introduction into cells.	Bioactive primary and secondary amines, when acylated with the Z-Gly-Phe group, are transported into pinocytic cells, such as macrophages, P-815 mastocytoma, SV-40 3T3, and leukemia 1210, much faster than the parent compounds. Amines such as lysosomotropic detergents [R. A. Firestone, J. M. Pisano, and R. J. Bonney, J. Med. Chem., 22, 1130 (1979) and nitrogen mustard, which are deactivated by acylation, are unmasked by enzymic action intracellularly, probably in lysosomes because an acidic pH maximum in activity exists which acts only on the L isomer. The added polarity and molecular weight brought about by acylation prevents the amines' normally facile entry into cells by simple diffusion, restricting it to an active-transport mechanism.
Functional characteristics of synovial fluid and blood mononuclear cells in rheumatoid arthritis and traumatic synovitis.	The activity of blood mononuclear cells (BMC) and synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SMC) from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and traumatic synovitis (TS) was assessed by means of [14C]thymidine incorporation and production of leukocyte migration inhibitory factor (LIF). When compared with normal controls, spontaneous LIF production by BMC was found in 5 of 9 TS patients, whereas spontaneous LIF production by rheumatoid arthritis BMC and by SMC from both patient groups was infrequently seen. ConA-induced LIF production by BMC and SMC from both patient groups did not differ significantly from that of normal controls. Thymidine incorporation by unstimulated SMC and BMC was low in both patient groups. After stimulation with polyclonal activators, SMC showed significantly reduced proliferation in comparison with BMC, but the responses to microbial antigens were equal to or higher than those of BMC. The proliferative responses of stimulated SMC from TS patients were higher than the responses displayed by stimulated SMC from RA patients.
Origin of synovial type A cells during inflammation. An experimental approach.	Antigen-induced hypersensitivity arthritis in guinea pigs leads to histopathological changes in the synovial membrane similar to those seen in rheumatoid arthritis. Until recently, the characteristic lining-cell hyperplasia was believed to be mainly due to proliferation of synoviocytes. The validity of this hitherto predominating concept might be refused by our experimental cell-kinetic data, which demonstrate a pronounced participation of cells of the bone marrow-derived mononuclear phagocyte system in inner multilayer formation of the inflamed synovium. This view of the response of the synovium as a bone marrow-dependent reaction is strongly supported by whole-body irradiation experiments, which indicated that hyperplasia of the lining cell of the synovium is absent in animals with an induced cell depletion of the bone marrow.
The development of the nucleus isthmi in Xenopus: an autoradiographic study.	The time of origin of the neurons of the nucleus isthmi (NI) in Xenopus has been investigated with [3H] thymidine autoradiography. The first cells of the NI were formed at stage 20 and they continued to be formed until stage 62. The majority of the neurons of the NI were generated between stages 45 and 55. The cells in the NI were distributed in a spatiotemporal manner. Cells generated earliest were located in the rostroventral pole of the NI followed in a dorsocaudal sequence by neurons formed later.
Pretherapeutical testing of antineoplastic drugs in vitro (author's transl)]	Prediction tests were performed in vitro an organ cultures of different solid human tumors. The effectivity of the antineoplastic drugs was determined by means of the remained 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA. DNA control values of different tumors (without drug) varying in a very high degree are analyzed and correspond to drug response rate in vitro. The correlation between results of sensitivity tests in vitro and therapeutic effectivity in vivo is discussed.
In vitro metabolism of 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine and 1-beta-2'-fluoroarabino-5-iodocytosine in normal and herpes simplex type 1 virus-infected cells.	Phosphorylation of 1-beta-D-2'-F-arabino-5-iodocytosine (FIAC), a newly synthesized pyrimidine nucleoside with potent antiherpesvirus activity, was compared with that of its parent compound, 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (ara-C). While ara-C was phosphorylated extensively by homogenates of normal, rapidly proliferating mouse tissues, FIAC was a poor substrate for the nucleoside kinase occurring in such normal tissues. With cell homogenates of noninfected Vero cells, thymidine (TdR) was phosphorylated about fifty and twenty times more efficiently than FIAC and ara-C, while infection of Vero cells with Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1 (HSV-1) resulted in a 23-fold increase of TdR- and a 1270-fold increase of FIAC phosphorylation. In contrast, phosphorylation of ara-C was increased only by a factor of 2.6. While the reaction products obtained with homogenates of normal mouse tissues were 5'-mono-, di- and triphosphates of ara-C and FIAC, the reaction products with noninfected and infected Vero cell homogenates were predominantly monophosphates. In contrast, TdR was efficiently phosphorylated to its 5'-mono-, di- and triphosphates by such homogenates. In intact HSV-1-infected Vero cells. FIAC was rapidly taken up and phosphorylated to FIACMP and to an as yet unidentified metabolite. In contrast, TdR was taken up and phosphorylated to 5'-mono-, di- and triphosphates and ara-C was taken up moderately but metabolized poorly to its 5'-mono-, di- and triphosphates. Thus, in normal tissues, FIAC was a poorer substrate than ara-C for nucleoside kinases, but in intact HSV- 1-infected Vero cells FIAC was efficiently phosphorylated and thus behaved like a TdR analog, except that it was phosphorylated only to the 5'-monophosphate and a hitherto unidentified metabolite. The greatly increased phosphorylation of FIAC by HSV-1-infected Vero cells probably accounts, at least in part, for its great selectivity of action.
In vivo cell kinetic effects of vincristine on the spontaneous AKR leukemia: recruitment of non-proliferating cells.	In order to investigate the influence of a cell-cycle specific agent on the cytokinetic behavior of a leukemic cell population in vivo, labeling studies with tritiated thymidine (3HTDR) followed by administration of vincristine (VCR) were performed on thymic cells of advanced AKR leukemic mice and evaluated utilizing a combined autoradiographic-Feulgen-microspectrophotometric technique. Twelve hours after a single drug injection the stathmokinetic effect of VCR was observed as reflected by an accumulation of cells in the S/G2-M phase of the mitotic cycle. Within 28 h this effect was no longer evident, but the significant increase in % unlabeled S/G2-M cells strongly suggested an influx of previously non-proliferating cells into the proliferating compartment (recruitment).
Increased relative effectiveness of doxorubicin against slowly proliferating sarcoma 180 cells after prolonged drug exposure.	Doxorubicin (ADR) lethality was studied in Sarcoma 180 cells grown in vitro during log phase and early plateau phase. For both log phase and plateau phase cells, ADR lethality increased progressively with continuous drug exposure, and was dependent on drug concentration at every point in time. For any given level of toxicity to log phase cells, greater killing of plateau phase cells was achieved with prolonged drug exposure. The inhibition of DNA synthesis by ADR was delayed in onset, and increased gradually, both at low and high drug concentrations. The data suggest that the dependence of ADR lethality on proliferation rate and the higher therapeutic ratio in plateau phase cells with prolonged drug exposure are not directly related to the ADR effects on DNA synthesis.
Stimulation of thymidine incorporation in isolated rat intestinal mucosal cells by feeding an ethanol-containing liquid diet.	The effect of chronic ethanol administration on the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA of isolated intestinal cells in the rat was investigated. Chronic ethanol consumption increased significantly DNA synthesis in intestinal mucosal cells. Whether this enhancement of DNA synthesis as a measure for cellular regeneration is due to the local effect of ethanol via tissue injury, to a direct stimulatory effect of ethanol on enzyme activities involved in DNA metabolism or to a change in the intestinal cell population with a shift to immature crypt cells by ethanol is not known.
Corneal epithelial cell cultures on stromal carriers.	Exposure of denuded rabbit corneal stromal carriers for 24 hr at 37 degrees C to suspensions of rabbit corneal epithelial cells grown in tissue culture resulted in the establishment of a cell layer on the carriers. The cell layers persisted for at least 1 week of incubation and were one to three cells thick. They consisted of healthy-appearing cells with normal intracellular organelles and intercellular desmosomal connections. After 2 to 7 days of incubation the cells were still capable of DNA replication and produced hemidesmosomes and basement membrane. This system is useful for in vitro studies of substrate requirements for hemidesmosome and basement-membrane formation by corneal epithelial cells.
In vitro assay for phototoxic chemicals.	The photosensitizing potential of chemicals known to produce photosensitivity in humans was compared to chemicals not considered to be photosensitizers in an in vitro assay. The assay involved exposure of human lymphoid cells to UVA (320-400 nm), and in some cases UVB (280-320 nm) radiation, in the presence of the chemicals and the assessement of phototoxicity as measured by the incorporation of 3[H]-thymidine into nuclear DNA. All known photosensitizers tested were found to be phototoxic, while the nonphotosensitizing agents, with the exception of retinoic acid, were not phototoxic. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were compared to a T lymphoblastoid cell line as target cells; the latter were superior in terms of convenience, cost and reproducibility of results. This test system has potential as a predictive assay for detecting additional phototoxic chemicals.
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of cytosine arabinoside in the central nervous system.	The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of [3H] cytosine arabinoside in the central nervous system were investigated. In vitro, the ability of rabbit brain slices and the isolated choroid plexus to accumulate [3H] cytosine arabinoside from artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) containing 5 nM [3H] cytosine arabinoside was studied. Although in both tissues the uptake of [3H] cytosine arabinoside was saturable, neither brain slices nor the isolated choroid plexus achieved tissue/medium ratios greater than 1.0 in 30 min. After 15-min incubations iin artificial CSF containing 5 nM [3H] cytosine arabinoside, 8 +/- 2 (S.E.M.;N = 3)% of the 3H within the choroid plexuses was [3H] cytosine arabinoside phosphates; after comparable 30-min incubations, 4 +/- 1 (N = 4)% of the 3H within brain slices was [3H] cytosine arabinoside phosphates. In vivo, 2 hr after the i.c.v. injection into rabbits of [3H] cytosine arabinoside and 0, 2 ro 20 mumol of unlabeled cytosine arabinoside, it was shown that: 1) high concentrations of cytosine arabinoside in the CSF decreased the clearance of cytosine arabinoside from the CSF; 2) cytosine arabinoside was taken up and phosphorylated by brain cells in all regions tested; and 3) although the phosphorylation of [3H] cytosine arabinoside in brain cells was saturable, a portion of the [3H] cytosine arabinoside in brain was phosphorylated to [3H] cytosine arabinoside triphosphate even when the i.c.v. injectate contained 20 mumol of unlabeled cytosine arabinoside.
Estrogen receptor heterogeneity and the relationship between estrogen receptor and the tritiated thymidine labeling index in human breast cancer.	Tissue from 54 patients with breast cancer was analyzed for estrogen receptor (ER). From 38 patients, tissue from multiple tumor sites was analyzed to determine ER heterogeneity. In 13 patients (34%) both positive and negative ER values were obtained. ER negative (ER-) results were observed more frequently in metastatic lesions. In 28 patients both the ER and [3H]-thymidine labeling index (LI) were measured in the metastatic lesion. [3H]-Thymidine was administered in vivo. There was a positive correlation between ER positivity and low LI. The mean LI of 8 ER positive (ER+) tumors was 3.4 in contrast to a mean LI of 10.0 for 14 ER- tumors (p less than 0.01). LI of 6 mixed ER tumors (ER+/-) was intermediate (mean 5.7). High LI (greater than or equal to 8) was associated with decreased survival regardless of the stage of disease at the time of study. ER with LI may provide an improved basis for treatment selection.
Cytotoxic material released from Staphylococcus epidermidis. I. Effects on [3H]thymidine incorporation of human lymphocytes.	Incorporation of [3H]thymidine ([3H]TdR) into tonsil lymphocytes was inhibited by native Staphylococcus epidermidis while Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I caused stimulation. The inhibitory effect of S. epidermidis was abolished by formalin treatment but not by heat killing. A toxic agent was released from S. epidermidis on gentle water extraction without lysing the bacteria. The extract contained protein and other UV-absorbing material, but did not exhibit haemolytic, lysozyme, catalase or protease activity. The heat-resistant, formalin-sensitive inhibitor present in the aqueous extract of S. epidermidis inhibited [3H]TdR incorporation of lymphocytes in a dose-dependent manner and decreased the viability of lymphocytes.
Epiretinal membrane formation after vitrectomy.	Our experimental model of epiretinal membrane formation in the rabbit eye after lensectomy and vitrectomy provides a way of studying pharmacologic and surgical approaches to inhibiting epiretinal cellular proliferation and contraction in the eye that has undergone vitrectomy. We injected 400,000 tissue-cultured retinal pigment epithelial cells onto the retinal surface of rabbit eyes that had undergone lensectomy, vitrectomy, and fluid-gas exchange. By one week, a funnel-shaped detachment of the medullary rays had occurred in 100% of the injected eyes. Histologically, the cells formed an epiretinal membrane by six hours after injection and caused major wrinkling of the inner retina after 24 to 48 hours. The percentage of tritiated-thymidine-labeled epiretinal cells increased dramatically 24 hours after injection and then declined. Cellular membranes bridging the optic nerve, followed by growth and contraction of the epiretinal cells on the detached internal limiting membrane, were responsible for the closed funnel appearance of the medullary rays.
Triiodothyronine stimulation of in vitro growth and maturation of embryonic chick cartilage.	We studied the direct effect of T3 on cartilage growth and maturation in vitro. Pelvic cartilages from 9-day-old chick embryos were incubated in a serum-free organ culture system which supported cartilage growth over a 5-day interval. The addition of T3 (15 nM) to the medium increased cartilage wet weight (approximately 100%), dry weight (77%), length (35%), and total soluble protein (67%) over 3 days compared to cartilage incubated in medium alone. The DNA content was only slightly increased (2%) by T3 over the interval. T3 stimulated the same parameters of growth similarly after 5 days of incubation. In addition, T3 increased the incorporation of [14C]leucine into protein (82%) and 35SO4 into proteoglycan (53%). A dose-dependent increase in cartilage wet weight was seen with T3 (0.0015-15 nM) over 3 days of incubation. Cartilage incubated with T3 demonstrated microscopic changes in maturation, with development of large numbers of hypertrophied chondrocytes, and biochemical evidence of maturation, with increased alkaline phosphatase activity (130%). The dose-response range for T3 stimulation of alkaline phosphatase activity (0.015-0.15 nM) was considerably more restricted than that for stimulation of growth (0.0015-15 nM). These studies demonstrate that T3 in physiological concentrations directly affects cartilage growth and maturation, primarily through stimulating chondrocyte hypertrophy.
Changes in the total number of dentate granule cells in juvenile and adult rats: a correlated volumetric and 3H-thymidine autoradiographic study.	The total number of granule cells in the dentate gyrus was estimated in 17 male rats, four each aged 30, 120, and 200 days, and five aged 365 days. There is a substantial 35-43% linear increase between 1 month and 1 year. Two parameters of the granular layer are involved in the numerical change. First, total granular layer volume grows linearly with age. Second, average volume of a single granule cell nucleus in the ventral dentate gyrus decreases with age. Older rats tend to have a larger granular layer filled with more and smaller cells. In another group of 21 male rats, 3H-thymidine injections were given on four consecutive days during juvenile (30-33, n = 6) and adult life (60-63, n = 5; 120-123, n = 6; 180-183, n = 4). All animals survived to 200 days of age. The proportion of labeled mature granule cells and labeled presumptive granule cell precursors were determined in anatomically-matched slices. With older ages at injection, there is a decline in labeled mature granule cells and a concurrent increase in labeled precursors. These data are compatible with the constant level of granule cell increase determined volumetrically. Most of the late granule cells originate nearly simultaneously along the base of the main bulk of the granular layer; very few are found in the dorsal tip (septal extreme) and ventral tip (temporal extreme). This study is the first demonstration of a net numerical gain in a neuronal population during adulthood in the mammalian brain. Since the granule adulthood in the mammalian brain. Since the granule cells play a pivotal role in hippocampal function, these data suggest that their influence grows with age.
In vitro proliferation of mononuclear phagocytes from murine and human bone marrow.	Techniques for liquid culture of proliferating mononuclear phagocytes from bone marrow of mice and men are described. Mouse bone marrow must be cultured in the presence of colony-stimulating factor, whereas proliferation of human mononuclear phagocytes occurred in medium with 50% serum but without colony-stimulating factor. The number of mononuclear phagocytes that can be determined in mouse bone marrow cultures is higher than that in cultures of human bone marrow. However, the number of mononuclear phagocytes found for the human system is an underestimation, because the immature mononuclear phagocytes cannot be recognized at the light-microscopical level. These precursor cells (monoblasts and promonocytes) can be recognized with the electron microscope. The characteristics of the various types of mononuclear phagocyte, especially in cultures of murine bone marrow, are reviewed.
Influence of a bovine spleen extract on immunological responses in mice.	The presence of immunological stimulatory and inhibitory activities has been detected in a bovine spleen extract F prepared by acetic extraction of an acetonic powder. F was fractioned after water dilution, by ultrafiltration on an Amicon PM-10 membrane. Two successive ultrafiltrates (mol. wt. less than 10,000) are obtained: U1 which contained the largest pool of the low molecular weight substances, and U2 which was shown previously to be enriched in an immunosuppressive peptide. The biological activities of U1 have been studied compared to those of U2: 1. Added to mouse spleen cells culture, U1, at low dose, stimulated 3H-thymidine incorporation into the DNA of the cells, but inhibited it when large dose was added. In this test, U2 was devoid of stimulatory action. 2. When injected into mice sensitized with sheep red blood cells, three distinct activities were detected: U1 was inhibitory at the sensitization period; at the last step of differentiation of the lymphocyte, U1 was stimulatory at low dose and inhibitory at large dose. As assessed by Biogel P-2 chromatography, this last activity was attributed to the presence in fraction U1 of the immunosuppressive peptide previously characterized in U2.
Lymphoid suppression by cis-platinum(II) amines. What are the active agents?	Cisplatin and its various hydrolysis products were tested in vitro for their effects on the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into lymphocytes isolated from thymuses, spleens and stimulated lymph nodes of rats. Neither cisplatin nor the mu-hydroxo-bridged oligomers formed after hydrolysis significantly inhibited thymidine incorporation at pH 7.4. However, freshly neutralised cis-diaquodiammineplatinum(II) was a potent inhibitor of thymidine incorporation by all three lymphocyte populations. In other experiments, rats were given either cisplatin or one of its hydrolysis products i.p. Cells isolated 17 hr later from the thymuses of all of these animals incorporated much less [3H]thymidine into DNA in vitro than thymocytes from saline-injected control animals. None of the platinum species significantly affected either [3H]uridine incorporation or the oxidation of [14C]octanoate to 14CO2 by the thymocytes. Evidence for anation of di- and tri-nuclear mu-hydroxo-bridged platinum(II)amines by chloride has been obtained from spectrophotometric analyses and 195Pt-NMR studies. Thiols also reacted with these platinum complexes at different rates (cis-[(NH3)2Pt(H2O)2]2+ much greater than derived oligomers greater than cisplatin). Various mechanisms for lymphoid suppression by cisplatin and its hydrolysis products are considered. It is proposed that cisplatin and its mu-hydroxo-bridged derivatives owe their lymphotoxic activity primarily to their in vivo transformation to platinum species containing aquo ligands.
Pregnancy stimulates DNA synthesis in R3230AC mammary adenocarcinoma.	The transplantable R3230AC mammary adenocarcinoma was grown in virgin, pregnant and lactating rats and in vivo rates of [3H]-thymidine incorporation into DNA and acid-soluble dTTP were compared between tumor and host mammary glands. The tumor differed from the host gland in that the rates of uptake and phosphorylation of the injected thymidine remained unchanged throughout the lactation cycle, but the dTTP pool increased greatly during pregnancy and declined during lactation. In both tumor and host gland, DNA labeling rates were higher during pregnancy than during lactation. Tumor DNA synthesis rates, in terms of incorporated dTMP, increased markedly during pregnancy and returned to pre-pregnant rates following parturition and during lactation. This pattern was similar to host mammary glands, but the change was of a greater magnitude. The data illustrate the usefulness of growing a transplantable mammary tumor in rats of varying physiological states. This way, similarities and differences between a mammary tumor and the host mammary gland regarding their responses to the hormonal milieu of pregnancy and lactation can be assessed.
Origin of outgrowth from isolated glomeruli in culture.	The primary cellular outgrowth from isolated glomeruli was identified by examinations of the ultrastructural changes occurring in the three glomerular cell types during culture and by light and electron microscopic autoradiographic preparations of isolated glomeruli incubated with 3H-thymidine. It is demonstrated that the visceral epithelial cells constitute the majority of cells in the primary glomerular outgrowth and that another cell type probably originates from the mesangial cells. A method is described to obtain rather pure cultures of proliferating visceral epithelial cells suitable for further studies of their metabolic properties.
Somatomedin-A bioactivity in rabbit serum after hypophysectomy.	Hall's bioassay was used to determine the somatomedin (Sm) activity pattern after hypophysectomy in young (40 days) and adult (180 days) rabbits. In the young animals, Sm activity decreased a little, but the serum remained slightly active. The serum of the older rabbits progressively lost its sulphation activity and inhibited SO4 uptake after 2 weeks following hypophysectomy. The inhibitory activity could not be destroyed by heating. Concomitantly, the same serum continued to stimulate thymidine uptake. From the present results on bioactivity, it appeared that Sm generation was only partially pituitary-dependent, that the pituitary might control inhibitor synthesis, and that the SO4 and thymidine factors were separate entities, each having its own inhibitor(s).
The effect of variations in vitamin C intake on the cellular immune response of guinea pigs.	The uptake of tritiated thymidine by isolated peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from male guinea pigs immunized with bovine serum albumin was studied in animals maintained on various amounts of Vitamin C for 28 days. Animals were pair-fed on ascorbate-free diet and were supplemented intraperitoneally with 0, 25, or 250 mg Na-ascorbate per day. Scorbutic animals lost weight rapidly during the final 2 experimental weeks. Their daily food intake averaged only 4 g/day during the last week; thus, pair-fed ascorbate-supplemented groups were also subjected to acute nutritional stress. Lymphocytes from guinea pigs receiving 250 mg Na-ascorbate per day incorporated in vitro the highest amounts of tritiated thymidine both in the absence of nonspecific mitogen and in the presence of concanavalin A or phytohemagglutinin. Responses to lipopolysaccharide were not conclusive. Total circulating white cells counts and relative numbers of T and B lymphocytes were assessed in a second study made under identical constraints. In scorbutic animals the percentage of B lymphocytes increased and that of T lymphocytes decreased continuously over the 4-week period. The opposite effect was observed in vitamin C-supplemented animals. These studies suggest that very high doses of ascorbate support elevated mitotic activity after 4 weeks of much reduced food intake.
Effect of hypogravity on human lymphocyte activation.	Cultures of human lymphocytes were exposed to the mitogen concanavalin A in a low-G environment generated by a fast rotating clinostat. DNA-synthesis was determined by incorporation of 3H-thymidine as the parameter for activation, cell ultrastructure was analyzed by electron microscopy, and cell movements were recorded by a cinecamera. The results were compared with 1-G controls. The cells cultured at low G show: (i) depression of activation by 50%, (ii) appearance of "mitochondria-rich" cells, and (iii) enhanced formation of pseudovilli and uropods. Our investigations in vitro at low and high G and reports on the effect of spaceflights on lymphocytes from cosmonauts and astronauts suggest that hypogravity depresses, whereas hypergravity enhances, lymphocyte activation by mitogens. This study is complementary to an experiment which will study the in vitro activation of lymphocytes in weightlessness during the first Spacelab mission.
Influence of tumour volume and cell kinetics on the response of the solid Yoshida sarcoma to hyperthermia (42 degrees C).	The cytokinetic response of the solid Yoshida sarcoma to hyperthermia was examined at two tumour volumes, 1.0-1.5 ml and 3.0-3.5 ml. The tumour, growing on the feet of rats, was heated at 42 degrees C for 1 h by water-bath immersion. The larger tumour grew more slowly than the smaller one (doubling time 144 h vs 36 h) due to a halving in growth fraction from 67.8 to 39.6% and an increase in cell-loss factor from 59 to 75.9%. Cell cycle and phase times were similar at both volumes. The effect of heat on the population kinetics at both volumes was similar but complex, and involved delayed cell death after up to 10 mitoses. Initial cell killing and blockade of cell-cycle progression (0-24 h) was followed by recovery of proliferation due to recruitment of cells from the non-proliferative compartment, cell cycle and phase times remaining unaltered. From 48 h, the proliferation rate declined progressively, and tumours were completely necrotic 7-8 days after heat. The damaging effects of heat were at least as severe in the large tumours with a low labelling index and small growth fraction as in the smaller tumours with a much larger compartment of proliferating cells and shorter doubling time. The results imply that there may be no simple relationship between proliferative status and thermosensitivity of a tumour, and illustrate the difficulty in predicting tumour response to heat on the basis of cytokinetic studies.
Rates of DNA and protein syntheses by fibroblast cultures in the presence of various glucose concentrations.	Fibroblast cells derived from human derm used between the 5th and 10th passage and submitted to an increase of over 16.5 mM in the glucose concentration of the medium, react by a decrease in the incorporation of [3H] thymidine into DNA. The intracellular proline pool is largely increased by the rise in glucose concentration while the incorporation of [U-14C] proline into total proteins and proteins digested by purified bacterial collagenase is also significantly enhanced. There is no specific effect on collagen synthesis and the apparent activation of total protein synthesis may depend on the enhancement of the free proline pool.
Phytohemagglutinin-stimulated normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes in folate-depleted medium: an in vitro model for megaloblastic hemopoiesis.	Normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured with phytohemagglutinin in folate-free RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with normal human serum exhibit megaloblastic maturation. These changes are accompanied by a decrease in intracellular folate content, and when compared to folate-replete cells, reveal increased 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA together with a decreased inhibitory effect of deoxyuridine on 3H-thymidine incorporation. This in vitro system of cellular folate deficiency is a convenient model for analysis of biochemical events accompanying megaloblastic maturation.
Inactivation of methionine synthase by nitrous oxide.	Exposure of rats to a 50% N2O/oxygen mixture led to a rapid loss of methionine synthase activity in both liver and brain. This enzyme has vitamin B12 as a cofactor. There was impaired conversion of deoxyuridine to deoxythymidine by bone marrow cells and this defect followed loss of methionine synthase activity. There was no homocystinuria. Withdrawal of N2O was followed by a relatively slow recovery of methionine synthase activity over four days. The inactivation of vitamin B12 by N2O promises to be a valuable tool in the study of vitamin B12 metabolism.
Rohon-beard cells and other large neurons in Xenopus embryos originate during gastrulation.	The time of origin (birthday) of Rohon-Beard cells in Xenopus laevis was studied by 3H-thymidine autoradiography. Rohon-Beard cells were selected because they are a morphologically identifiable population of neurons in which the development of chemical and electrical excitability has been studied. A single injection of a radioactive DNA precursor was given to animals in successive stages of development from blastula to late tail bud (Nieuwkoop and Faber stages 8--33/34). The label was available throughout the stage of injection and longer. The labeling pattern was examined when animals had reached stage 42, when Rohon-Beard cells are easily recognized. All neurons including Rohon-Beard cells were labeled in animals injected with 3H-thymidine before stage 10 1/2 (early gastrula). Unlabeled Rohon-Beard cells were observed in animals injected with 3H-thymidine in and after stage 10 1/2. The percentage of unlabeled Rohon-Beard cells increased as development progressed. About 80% were born by the completion of gastrulation (stage 13). The other approximately 20% were born during neurulation and early tail bud stages. By stage 27, no Rohon-Beard neuron incorporated 3H-thymidine. In addition to Rohon-Beard neurons, five other neuronal populations begin generation during gastrulation: Mauthner neurons (Vargas-Lizardi and Lyser, '74), trigeminal ganglion cells, large basal plate cells of the medulla, extramedullary neurons, and primary motor neurons. The first birthdays in any of the six populations are temporally close to but appear to be independent of the others.
Glucocorticoids and lymphocytes. I. Increased glucocorticoid receptor levels in antigen-stimulated lymphocytes.	Recently a 2- to 3-fold increase in the number of glucocorticoid receptors in human peripheral lymphocytes has been noted after in vitro mitogen stimulation. Here, we extend these observations to in vivo immunization. After unilateral immunization of adrenalectomized male rats, a 50% increase in glucocorticoid receptor sites per cell, determined by binding of dexamethasone, was observed in cell suspensions of homolateral lymph nodes over those from the contralateral nonimmunized side of the same animal. The association constant for dexamethasone was similar in both groups, as was the stereospecificity for various steroids, the time course of cytoplasmic and nuclear association, and cytoplasmic-to-nuclear translocation. Despite a 50% increase in the number of glucocorticoid receptor sites per cell, the cells from the homolateral and controlateral lymph nodes were equally sensitive to the inhibitory effects of dexamethasone, as determined by measurements of the incorporation of radiolabeled precursors of protein, RNA, and DNA, or measurements of in vitro cell survival.
Acetaminophen toxicity in human lymphocytes in vitro.	Studies of drug toxicity in humans are limited by the paucity of noninvasive approaches for assessing individual susceptibility to toxicity. An in vitro system for examining acetaminophen toxicity has been developed by using human lymphocytes and a mouse microsomal drug metabolizing system. Acetaminophen metabolites produced by the microsomes caused a dose-dependent depletion of lymphocyte glutathione content. No depletion was seen with heat-inactivated microsomes or in the absence of the metabolizing system. Toxicity to the lymphocytes was assayed by trypan blue dye exclusion, release of lactic dehydrogenase to the culture medium and loss of ability to respond to concanavalin A with [3H]thymidine incorporation into deoxyribonucleic acid. Toxicity was marked at concentrations of acetaminophen causing greater than 80% depletion of glutathione, similar to plasma concentrations  associated with hepatotoxicity in vivo. The method may serve as a means of examining individual differences in cell defenses against electrophilic drug metabolite toxicity.
Action of carminomycin on the structural integrity, primary damage susceptibility and postradiation regeneration of the DNA from Erhlich's ascitic carcinoma]	Carminomycin added to the cell culture of Ehrlichs ascites carcinoma (EAC) induced single breaks in DNA whose number increased proportionally to the amount of the antibiotic and the incubation time with it (up to 1 hour). The relationship between the incubation time and DNA injury is first of all defined by the necessity for the antibiotic metabolic activation or the properties of endonucleases. No increase in the number of one-thread breaks during the incubation period of 60 to 120 minutes indicated a possible reparation of DNA injury induced by the antibiotic in the late periods. The exposure of the EAC cells to carminomycin before gamma-irradiation did not result in any increase in the primary radiation injury to DNA but suppressed DNA postradiation reparation.
Changes in adipose tissue of the rat due early undernutrition followed by rehabilitation. 3. Changes in cell replication studied with tritiated thymidine.	1. Well-nourished rats were injected with tritiated thymidine at 15, 22, 28 or 84 d of age. At 1, 6, 11 and 16 d after injection animals from each group were killed, samples of adipose tissue were removed from two subcutaneous sites (abdominal and scapular) and separated, using collagenase (EC 3.4.24.3), into 'fat cell' and 'stromal cell' fractions. The specific (radio)activity of DNA isolated from each fraction was measured. The specific activity of DNA isolated from two 'deep body' sites (perirenal and epididymal) was measured only in the animals injected at 84 d of age. 2. Animals undernourished from birth up to 84 d of age were injected with tritiated thymidine at 22, 28 or 84 d of age. Animals were killed 1 and 11 d after injection, adipose tissue removed, and the specific activity of DNA measured. Other undernourished animals were rehabilitated from 84 to 107 d and injected at 91 d of age with tritiated thymidine. The animals were killed 1, 6, 11 and 16 d after injection, adipose tissue was removed from the subcutaneous and deep body sites and the specific activity of DNA determined as before. 3. In well-nourished animals fat cell replication had largely ceased by 12 weeks of age in the subcutaneous depots. There were differences between the various sites of adipose tissue regarding the period of hyperplastic growth, its timing or rate of replication or both. 4. In undernourished animals replication was slow in the subcutaneous depots compared with well-nourished animals of the same age. Rehabilitation from undernutrition stimulated replication which resulted in higher rates in all four depots examined compared with those in well-nourished animals. 5. The findings are discussed in relation to the concept of a finite period of hyperplasia for adipose tissue.
The fractionation of suspensions of isolated hepatocytes by rate zonal centrifugation.	Parenchymal cells, isolated from rat liver by a simple non-enzymic technique, were fractioned according to ploidy class by rate zonal centrifugation on sucrose density gradients. This method of fractionation applied to liver cells prelabelled in vivo with tritiated thymidine separated different size classes of cells synthesising DNA.
Dynamic histology of a rat hepatoma and the response to 5-fluorouracil.	The cellular response of the rat hepatoma 3924A to a single intraperitoneal injection of 5-fluorouracil has been measured in respect of the spatial relationship of the cells to the tumour microvasculature. In this tumour the parenchyma is arranged in cords approximately 150 micron thick around central capillaries. For untreated tumours, those cells at distance less than 80 micron from the capillary had a mean [3HTdR labelling index of 39% and a mitotic index of 2.1%, while for those cells more than 80 micron away the values were 14% and 0.8% respectively. Two days after 150 mg/kg of 5-fluorouracil, mean cord thickness was reduced by 25% and did not recover to the control level until 11 days after treatment. This was also true for the mitotic index. Recovery of the labelling index was complete 2 days earlier. Although absolute values of parameters were different in the populations adjacent to and remote from the capillary, the time course of recovery was similar, with a 'growth spur' 7 to 9 days after treatment. The results from this histologically-based assay have been compared with those from biochemical/biophysical assays that sample the overall tumour population.
Proliferation kinetics of the mouse bladder after irradiation.	The proliferation response of the mouse bladder was investigated, using continuous labelling with tritiated thymidine, at various times after a single dose of radiation. Bladder epithelial and vascular endothelial cells were studied. The cell turnover rate in unirradiated epithelium and endothelium was found to be extremely slow (in excess of 1 year). Irradiation with a single dose of 25 Gy resulted in compensatory proliferation of the epithelium but the response was not initiated for many months. At 3 months after irradiation there was little difference from the control proliferation rate, but from 6 to 22 months after irradiation (the end of the study) there was a period of sustained rapid proliferation with the cell turnover time reduced to approximately 1 week. The increase in proliferative activity observed at 22 months was found to be dose-dependent. Endothelial cells in the blood vessels of the submucosa also showed an increased turnover rate after irradiation and the timing this response was found to be similar to that of the epithelium. The onset of compensatory proliferation in both cell types was found to coincide with marked histological and functional changes in the bladder. In this slowly proliferating tissue, the onset of rapid compensatory proliferation after irradiation is delayed and occurs at the time that functional impairment is observed. This supports the postulate that proliferation is unlikely to contribute much to the sparing effect of prolonged fractionated radiotherapy in slowly dividing tissues.
Comparison of DNA renewal in germ-free and conventional mice using [125I]iododeoxyuridine and [3H]thymidine.	Germ-free (GF) and conventional (CV) C3H mice received a single injection of 1 muCi [3H]thymidine and 3 muCi [125I]iododeoxyuridine to provide simultaneous labeling of DNA with the two precursors. Thymus, spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, bone marrow (femora), small intestine, colon and skin were examined for total organ activity and rate of DNA renewal 1-8 days after injection. Precursor incorporation, assayed on day 1, was lower in the thymus, mesenteric lymph nodes and femora (and, to a lesser extent, in the spleen and colon) of GF mice as compared to CV animals. The opposite was observed in the small intestine and skin, i.e. total organ activity was higher in GF animals. Differences in precursor incorporation were partly due to differences in organ weights between the two groups of mice. In comparison to CV animals, DNA renewal rates were diminished in the mesenteric lymph nodes, bone marrow, colon (following a 3-day plateau) and spleen of GF mice. Little, if any, difference was observed between the two groups with respect to the rate of DNA turnover in the thymus and skin. Radioactivity of the small intestine remained constant for 2 days. Thereafter intestinal activity in GF mice declined at an initial slow rate between days 2 and 5 followed by a rapid decrease between days 5 and 8. In CV mice the first phase of activity loss was short with the rapid decline in intestinal activity beginning on day 3. From the slopes of the regression lines, the percentage thymidine reutilization was estimated. Reutilization varied from 0 to 63% in the various organs examined, with the greatest difference between GF and CV mice occurring in the mesenteric lymph nodes.
An in vivo double labelling study of the subsequent fate of cells arrested in metaphase by vincristine in the JB-1 mouse ascites tumour.	The fate of cells arrested by Vincristine (VCR) in metaphase is of interest because of the wide use of this substance in cancer chemotherapy and, particularly, in relation to its use in so-called 'synchronization' therapy. The present study was designed to answer the question of whether cells blocked in metaphase by VCR subsequently proliferate further or whether they become infertile and die. By means of a double labelling technique with [3H] and [14C]thymidine (TdR) it was shown that all VCR-arrested metaphases in the JB-1 ascites tumour subsequently became necrotic. These cells did not re-enter a viable G2 phase following arrest and thus could not take part in a wave of synchronous proliferation. In agreement with earlier studies, VCR was found to lead to arrest in metaphase, not only of cells in or shortly prior to mitosis at the time of VCR administration, but also of the majority of cells which had at this time been in the S and G2 phase.
Existence of an endogenous inhibitor of DNA synthesis in rabbit small intestine specifically effective on cell proliferation in adult mouse intestine.	Aqueous extracts from rabbit organs were prepared by homogenization and centrifugation at 105,000 g. After precipitation with ammonium sulphate, the 0-50 fraction was separated by ultrafiltration through Amicon XM 100 and XM 300 membranes yielding two filtrate fractions (U1 and U2) and one retentate fraction (U3). Only U1 and U3 inhibited thymidine incorporation into DNA. After a single injection of U1 from rabbit small intestine, the uptake of tritiated thymidine was decreased in mouse jejunal and colonic DNA. This effect, totally reversible after 7 hr, was found in neither the kidney nor the testis. The U1 fractions of colon and non-digestive organs (kidney, testis) were found not to exert a significant inhibition on thymidine incorporation into intestinal DNA in vivo. The U3 fraction from rabbit small intestine also decreased the uptake of tritiated thymidine in mouse jejunal and colonic DNA in vivo. However, this inhibition was irreversible and not tissue-specific. Slowing of cell migration was also noticed in the jejunum of mice injected with U1 or U3, as ascertained radioautographically by determining the position of the leading edge of the labelled cells in U1- or U3-injected mice compared with controls. A decrease of mitotic activity in U1- and U3-injected mice was recorded 8.5 hr after a single injection of small intestinal fractions. Our results suggest that U1 and U3 from rabbit small intestine contain one or more substances which may act on the G1-S transition of the cell cycle in the mouse intestine. However, only the effect of U1 is reversible and tissue specific. Our data suggest the existence of a factor, having a low molecular weight, which regulates intestinal cell proliferation.
Conditions for measuring DNA synthesis in PHA stimulated human lymphocytes in 20 microliters hanging drops with various cell concentrations and periods of culture.	We have studied conditions for measuring the uptake of [3H]thymidine ([3H]Tdr) by human lymphocytes in inverted microcultures, varying cell concentrations and periods in culture. Analysis of variance of the log values for [3H]Tdr uptake may be used to separate effects of variables and their interactions. A pulse time of 2 h, a total thymidine concentration of about 1 microgram/ml and a specific activity of [3H]Tdr of 2 Ci/mmole were optimal. Variables such as cell concentration, period of culture, type of serum and dose of PHA were shown to interact, suggesting that these variables should be examined together especially when comparing different samples of lymphocytes. Conditions for doing this simply in small volumes are now available for culturing, thymidine pulsing, harvesting and analysis of data.
Hydroxyurea: effect on growth, structure, and [3H]thymidine uptake of Trypanosoma brucei procyclic culture forms.	Hydroxyurea (HU) in concentrations above 50 micrograms/ml reversibly inhibited cell division of Trypanosoma brucei brucei stock STIB 336 procyclic culture forms, but not growth of individual cells. The volume of the nucleus and of the cytoplasm increased in the presence of the drug as did the percentage of cells with 2 kinetoplasts. Electron microscopy revealed that the nuclear membrane was extended forming protrusions which surrounded areas of the cytoplasm. Replication of the kinetoplast DNA did not seem to be affected by HU. The uptake of [3H]thymidine increased in the presence of 25 micrograms/ml HU 3-fold compared to control cells. The nuclear volume and the dry weight of the culture forms increased proportionally to the amount of label incorporated.
Autoradiographic studies of the rat renotropic system.	Rat sera, 10-30 h after unilateral nephrectomy (UNI), enhance 3H-thymidine ("3H-Tdr) incorporation into DNA of incubating renal tissue from control rats. Stimulation is even greater when extracts from remaining growing kidneys 20 h after UNI are combined with sera from rats after UNI. UNI extracts, i.e., extracts from the kidney remaining after uninephrectomy, are nonstimulatory alone. UNI sera and UNI sera plus UNI extracts could theoretically augment 3H-Tdr incorporation into renal DNA via dilutional means rather than enhanced DNA synthesis. To determine if our results were secondary to enhanced DNA synthesis, we performed our in vitro assay using the labelling of nuclei via autoradiography as another index. The addition of UNI sera compared to sera from sham-operated rats (SHAM) in seven paired experiments enhanced incorporation of 3H-Tdr into DNA by 30% (p less than 0.02) and the addition of both UNI sera and UNI extracts compared to SHAM sera and SHAM extracts enhanced incorporation by 48% (p less than 0.001). Unlike a dilutional effect, nuclear labelling also increased in these same seven experiments: UNI sera versus SHAM sera increased 25% (p less than 0.05) and UNI sera + UNI extracts versus SHAM sera + SHAM extracts increased 37% (p less than 0.01). We conclude that UNI sera and UNI sera + UNI extracts enhance 3H-Tdr incorporation into DNA by augmenting DNA synthesis, driving cells into the "S" phase. The use of 3H-Tdr incorporation into DNA in our assay does estimate DNA synthesis.
Immunosuppression in bovine trypanosomiasis. The establishment of "memory" in cattle infected with T. congolense and the effect of post infection serum on in vitro (3H)-thymidine uptake by lymphocytes and on leucocyte migration.	Cattle infected with Trypanosoma congolense were intravenously immunized with Leptospira biflexa 15 days after trypanosomal infection. The primary immune response to L. biflexa was considerably reduced as compared to uninfected controls. The infected cattle mounted a secondary response when they were cured of trypanosomes by treatment with Berenil 25 days after infection and re-immunized 8 days later. The mean secondary response in these previously infected animals was lower tha, but not significantly different from that of the uninfected control animals. Serum collected 15, 20 and 25 days after infection was inhibitory to the migration of both autologous and isologous (control) peripheral blood leucocytes. The migration inhibitory activity was abolished by heating the serum at 56 degrees C for 30 minutes implying the involvement of a heat labile serum component(s). The same serum did not modify the mitogenic effect of PHA on autologous peripheral lymphocytes.
The growth fraction of human myeloma cells.	Greater reductions of tumor load in patients with multiple myeloma may result from therapeutic strategies that are based on a better knowledge of growth kinetics. We have previously shown that the labeling index of myeloma cells remains unchanged when tumor mass is reduced and that the cells of relapsing patients have differnt biologic properties than the cells present before melphalan-prednisone therapy. This study investigated the growth fraction (GF) of myeloma cells at various disease stages using continuous i.v. infusions of tritiated thymidine. We studied 17 patients on 22 occasions (4 untreated, 2 unresponsive, 6 in remission, and 10 in relapse). All untreated an unresponsive patients and 5 of 6 patients in remission had a GF of less than 4%. GF was defined in these studies as the maximum percentage of labeled plasma cells exposed continuously to tritiated thymidine. Relapsing patients, with the most rapid tumor doubling times, had GF ranging from 14% to 83%. The plasma cell transit time through the proliferative compartment for all of the relapsing patients ranged from 6.6 to 11.9 days and the calculated intrinsic cell loss ranged from 50% to 86%. These findings support our model for the growth kinetics of multiple myeloma that assumes that the entire tumor mass issues from a small proportion of proliferating cells and that the growth kinetics of myeloma cells in relapsing patterns differ from those in untreated and unresponsive patients. Therapeutic trials with cycle-active agents need further investigation in selected relapsing patients who are likely to have a high growth fraction.
Purification and properties of estrogen-responsive cytoplasmic thymidine kinase from human breast cancer.	The effect of 17 beta-estradiol on cytoplasmic thymidine kinase activity was studied in MCF-7, a human breast cancer cell line in culture which responds to estrogens with an increase in the rate of growth. Levels of 17 beta-estradiol which maximally stimulate [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA also maximally stimulate thymidine kinase activity. The Vmax for thymidine increased while the Km was not affected by estrogen stimulation when performed on nonpurified enzyme. Tamoxifen, an antiestrogen, decreased the specific activity of the enzyme. To further study its hormonal regulation, cytoplasmic thymidine kinase was purified greater than 2000-fold by affinity column chromatography. The purified preparation migrated in one band to a pI of 8.5 on an isoelectric focusing gel. The purified thymidine kinase was further characterized by examining its molecular weight, pH optimum, heat stability, utilization of phosphate donors, inhibition by nucleotides, and the effect of pyrimidine nucleoside analogs.
Dichotomies in the reactivity to worm antigen in human schistosomiasis mansoni.	3H-thymidine incorporation was studied using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 41 Egyptians with Schistosoma mansoni infection. The individuals were preselected to fall into 3 age-matched categories: asymptomatic with light and heavy infections and those with schistosomal hepatosplenomegaly. Seven uninfected individuals served as controls. PBMC from all groups were comparable in their responsiveness to phytohemagglutinin (PHA), streptokinase-streptodornase (SKSD), and the schistosome soluble egg antigen (SEA). However, DNA synthesis induced by soluble worm antigenic preparation (SWAP) differed significantly among these groups. The mean response to SWAP (delta cpm = experimental cpm minus control cpm +/- standard error) was markedly decreased in individuals with heavy infections (1,963 +/- 509) compared with those with light to moderate egg excretion (4,646 +/- 790; p  less than 0.01). Moreover, 2 subgroups were discernible among patients with hepatosplenomegaly. Seven were unresponsive to SWAP (7659 +/- 231), whereas 13 had vigorous responses (14, 617 +/- 2263; p < 0.01). This is the first demonstration of an inverse relationship between specific immune responsiveness to adult worm antigens and intensity of infection in humans with schistosomiasis mansoni. The depressed lymphocyte reactivity in patients with heavy infection, whether cause or consequence of the parasite load, may perpetuate large worm burdens. Furthermore, the observations on patients with hepatosplenomegaly may reflect differing pathogenetic mechanisms.
In vitro assay of erythropoietin in fetal mouse liver cultures. I. Comparison of radioactive tracers and evidence of assay specificity.	In a 13 d fetal mouse liver tissue culture system for assay of erythropoietin, stimulation of incorporation of 3H-thymidine and of 125I-iodo-2'-deoxy uridine into DNA and of 59Fe iron into haem were compared as metameters of erythropoietin effect. With both DNA and haem tracers, log-dose response curves given by two preparations of human urinary erythopoietin purified to different extents (respectively 2 and 1300 IU, by bioassay in vivo, per mg of protein) were essentially identical at low dose levels although at high dose levels the less pure preparation decreased stimulation of both DNA and haem synthesis. Pre-incubation of erythropoietin with an antiserum to human erythropoietin abolished the effects of the hormones on both DNA and haem synthesis.
In vitro assay of erythropoietin in fetal mouse liver cultures. II. Effects of human transferrin bound iron and of serum on the stimulation of incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA.	Iron bound to human transferrin but not apotransferrin, increases the effect of erythropoietin in stimulating incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA in fetal mouse liver cells in vitro. The effect of erythropoietin, with or without transferrin-iron is blocked by pre-incubation of the erythropoietin with rabbit anti erythropoietin serum. Human sera contain factors in addition to erythropoietin and transferin-iron which may modify the stimulation of incorporation of 3H-thymidine into fetal mouse liver DNA induced by erythropoietin. Heat treatment of sera at 56 degrees C for 30 min does not necessarily destroy these factors. Acid heat treatment of sera (pH 5.5 and 100 degrees C for 5 min) may destroy inhibitory factors and can result in an apparent increase in serum erythropoietin activity assessed in this fetal mouse liver system.
Genetic regulation of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity in cultures of mouse fetal liver cells.	Primary cultures of fetal liver cells were established from six inbred strains of mice to determine whether the genes regulating the induction of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) in adult livers in vivo also function in fetal liver cells maintained in culture. Fetuses were 19 days old and were derived from three inbred mouse strains (A/J, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J) which are classified genetically as aromatic hydrocarbon responsive and three strains (AKR/J, DBA/2J, SWR/J) which are classified as aromatic hydrocarbon non-responsive. Cells were induced with 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) and harvested for measurement of AHH activity, DNA content and amount of [3H]thymidine incorporated. The time course of induction of AHH activity by 3-MC was followed from around 60 h after cells were plated until 190 h when cells were at the end of exponential and at the start of stationary growth phase. Both basal and induced AHH activities generally rise to a peak value during exponential growth and then decline as cells reach stationary phase. During late exponential growth to early stationary growth phase, cells derived from responsive strains have higher induced enzyme activity than cells derived from non-responsive strains. Cells from aromatic hydrocarbon responsive mice attained maximal AHH activity with inducer concentrations of 0.05--0.10 micrograms 3-MC/ml. Cells from aromatic hydrocarbon non-responsive strains were maximally induced at 0.50 micrograms 3-MC/ml. The 5--10-fold difference between cells from responsive and non-responsive mice in concentration of 3-MC needed to induce AHH maximally is taken to indicate that genes controlling aromatic hydrocarbon responsiveness in adult mouse livers in vivo also function in fetal mouse liver cells maintained in culture.
The kinetics of murine peritoneal macrophage replication.	The percentage of peritoneal macrophages synthesising DNA in the unstimulated mouse peritoneum was found to be 0.4 per cent. after a 30 min in-vivo pulse label of 3H Tdr. This percentage was found to rise to 4.0, 24 hr after stimulation of the cavity with thioglycollate. Using BrdU incorporation as an indicator of DNA synthesis it was found that in the unstimulated animals S + G2 lasted 12-15 hr while the same functions in stimulated animals took 7-10 hr. A small proportion of much more rapidly dividing cells was found in both stimulated an unstimulated animals. These findings possibly reflect differences between resident and exudate macrophages, or alterations in the kinetics of macrophage division as a result of inflammation. It was concluded that as the increase in the number of cells synthesising DNA and their rate of division was too low, the increase in the number of cells in the  stimulated cavity could not be solely the result of cell division within the cavity.
The relationship of blood vessel proximity and time after radiolabeled thymidine administration to tumor cell population kinetics in a transplanted mouse mammary tumor.	The relation between the time of administration of tritiated thymidine and the proximity of cells to blood vessels and their labeling index, grain density per labeled cells, mitotic index, and growth fraction have been determined autoradiographically in a transplanted mammary tumor of mice. The tumor was rich in blood vessels, and the cells were densely packed, showing a few glandular structures. Shortly after tritiated thymidine administration, cells closer to the blood vessels (0-70 mu) showed a higher percentage of labeled and mitotic cells, more grains per labeled cells, and a higher growth fraction than the cells located in the outer zone (70-140 mu). Eight days later the values of these parameters were similar in both areas. The cell cycle time, the duration of mitosis, the S phase, the G1 phase and the G2 phase were essentially the same in both zones. These results could be attributed either to reutilization of nucleic acid metabolites or release of the original precursor from cells. It is suggested that label redistribution, which may perturb the measurement of the apparent turnover of labeled proliferating cellular systems in the body should be considered in all cases of autoradiographic or labeled purine-pyrimidine turnover studies.
Human megakaryocyte stimulation of proliferation of bone marrow fibroblasts.	Human marrow cells were processed sequentially by density centrifugation and by velocity sedimentation in serum-free Percoll gradients in order to purify megakaryocytes and to determine if these cells are the source of the growth factor derived from platelets. Cell homogenates were made from the resulting fractions and tested for growth-promoting activity(ies) in 3T3 cells and in well characterized human marrow fibroblasts. Growth was evaluated by 3H-TdR incorporation and changes in DNA cell content, as measured by flow microfluorometry. The highest mitogenic activity was derived from homogenates of low density (less than 1.050 g/cu cm), rapidly sedimenting cells. This fraction contained the highest percentage of megakaryocytes. The assessment of growth-promoting activity(ies) derived from various megakaryocyte-enriched marrow cell homogenates containing different proportions of megakaryocytes demonstrated a positive correlation between the number of megakaryocytes and their stimulatory capacity as determined by 3H-TdR uptake. The growth-promoting activities elicited from homogenates of platelets and marrow fractions enriched for megakaryocytes were similar. The dose--response curves for both were parallel, and they were both temperature resistant and trypsin sensitive. These findings implicate megakaryocytes as a source of the growth factor derived from platelets and suggest that megakaryocytes may play a role in the pathogenesis of the marrow fibrosis observed in myeloproliferative disorders by stimulating fibroblast proliferation and collagen secretion.
Inhibition of growth of human osteosarcomas by antagonists of growth hormone-releasing hormone.	Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) may be involved in the proliferation of human osteosarcomas. Most of the IGF-I found in blood is produced in the liver, where transcription of the IGF-I gene is regulated by growth hormone (GH). Recently, we synthesized various potent antagonists of GH-releasing hormone (GH-RH), including [Ibu0, D-Arg2, Phe(4-Cl)6, Abu15, Nle27]hGH-RH(1-28)Agm, which is also called MZ-4-71.
Gangliosides have a bimodal effect on DNA synthesis in U-1242 MG human glioma cells.	GM1, GD1a, and GT1b inhibit both PDGF-stimulated and serum-stimulated DNA synthesis in Swiss 3T3 cells and the human glioma cell line U-1242 MG in a dose-dependent manner. The ganglioside inhibitory effect is counteracted in a dose-responsive fashion by serum such that ganglioside-induced inhibition is essentially abolished in 10% serum. Because of the potentially important role that gangliosides play in growth regulation of human gliomas, this phenomenon was studied in detail using U-1242 MG cells. Stimulation of DNA synthesis by low doses of serum in U-1242 MG cells is inhibited in a dose-responsive fashion by ganglioside GM1. However, serum itself counteracts the inhibitory effect of ganglioside in a dose responsive way. Kinetic analyses demonstrate that GM1 competes with some components of serum for sites on U-1242 MG cells (Kb of GM1 = 12.5 microM). On the other hand, GM1, GD1a, and GT1b stimulate DNA synthesis in quiescent U-1242 MG cells in both sparse and confluent conditions, indicating that ganglioside-stimulated DNA synthesis is dependent on the phase of cellular growth rather than cellular density. This growth stimulatory effect of gangliosides is more potent on quiescent, confluent cells than quiescent, sparse cells. These results demonstrate that exogenously added gangliosides can have opposite (bimodal) effects on progression of human glioma cells through the cell cycle depending upon the growth phase of the cells.
Activation of thromboxane and prostacyclin receptors elicits opposing effects on vascular smooth muscle cell growth and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling cascades.	Thromboxane A2 stimulation of smooth muscle cells contributes to the development of vascular lesions after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. In view of this, we examined the signaling pathways stimulated by a thromboxane receptor agonist, U-46619, in cultures of rat aortic smooth muscle cells. Treatment of rat aortic smooth muscle cells with U-46619 induced cellular hypertrophy ([14C]leucine incorporation) without stimulating mitogenesis ([3H]thymidine incorporation). Analysis of signaling pathways elicited by U-46619 revealed enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation and increased enzymatic activity of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase (Erk2). U-46619 also activated signaling proteins upstream of p21-ras, inducing tyrosine phosphorylation on Shc and complex formation between Shc and growth factor receptor binding protein-2 (GRB2). Exposure of cells to a stable prostacyclin analogue, ciprostene calcium, attenuated U-46619-induced cellular hypertrophy and MAP kinase activity. Ciprostene treatment elevated cellular cAMP and inhibited U-46619-induced tyrosine phosphorylation on Shc and Shc/GRB2 complex formation. These results demonstrate that stimulation of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin receptors have opposing effects on smooth muscle cell hypertrophy and the signaling pathways associated with this process. We conclude that inhibition of Shc/GRB2 complex formation and MAP kinase activity by ciprostene may contribute to its ability to limit restenosis injury.
Effect of hyperthermia on intracellular pH in human U-87 MG glioblastoma cells.	The effect of hyperthermia at 43 degrees C on intracellular pH (pHi) in human U-87 MG glioblastoma cells was studied by using the fluorescent probe 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein-pentaacetoxymethyl ester. The presence of Na+/H+ antiporter activity in the cells were demonstrated by the Na(+)-dependent increase in intracellular pH (pHi) after cellular acidification in the absence of HCO3-. Hyperthermia at 43 degrees C caused significant decrease in pHi. The acidification was readily reversible by cooling the cells back down to 37 degrees C. The pHi change was inhibited by the addition of 1 mM amiloride in the incubation medium. Amiloride and hyperthermia exhibited a synergistic effect in suppressing thymidine incorporation into the cells.
Diminished capacity for p53 in mediating a radiation-induced G1 arrest in established human tumor cell lines.	It has been reported that the p53 gene mediates an ionizing radiation-induced G1 arrest in mammalian cells. To further characterize this important phenomenon, a panel of seven human diploid fibroblast cell strains and 14 human tumor cell lines from a variety of sources with both wild-type and mutant p53 status were assayed for their susceptibility to G1 arrest after gamma-ray irradiation by a continuous labeling [3H]thymidine incorporation technique. An irreversible G1-block involving 20-70% of the cell population was observed in diploid fibroblasts irradiated with 4 Gy. The block was abolished by transfection with the Human Papilloma Virus E6 gene and in an ataxia telangiectasia (AT) cell line, indicating a role for the AT and p53 genes respectively in this process. In contrast to wild-type normal fibroblast cell strains, the G1-block in all tumor cell lines was significantly reduced, irrespective of their p53 status. None of the nine human tumor cell lines with mutant p53 genes showed a significant G1-block following irradiation with 4 Gy. Among the five tumor cell lines expressing wild-type p53, two showed no apparent G1-block. The remaining three showed a G1-block involving only 8-15% of the cell population, a block much smaller in magnitude than that seen in diploid fibroblasts. Finally, a diploid fibroblast cell strain and a tumor cell line, both showing a normal p53 and p21/WAF1 expression pattern, were examined for pRb phosphorylation before and after irradiation. The diploid fibroblast cell strain showed a significant G1-arrest and a clear inhibition of pRb phosphorylation by irradiation whereas the tumor cells showed no G1-arrest and no inhibition of pRb phosphorylation. These results suggest that (1) multiple genetic factors may modulate the occurrence and magnitude of the G1-arrest induced by exposure to ionizing radiation, (2) the capacity for p53 to mediate a radiation-induced G1 arrest is significantly reduced in tumor cells, (3) the disruption of G1-block modulating factor(s) other than p53 may be an important step in carcinogenesis.
Characterization of MCSF-induced proliferation and subsequent osteoclast formation in murine marrow culture.	To clarify events involved in 1,25(OH)2D3-stimulated osteoclast-like cell (OCLC) formation in primary murine marrow culture, we have characterized kinetics of precursor proliferation and fusion and their dependence on macrophage colony-stimulating factor (MCSF). 3H-thymidine nuclear incorporation in tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase positive multinucleated cells (TRAP+ MNCs) was assessed: 3H-thymidine incorporation was greatest when tracer was added during day 4 or 5, with labeled nuclei in 81% (day 4) and 90% (day 5) of the TRAP+ MNCs counted at the end of day 7. The percentage of total nuclei labeled was highest when 3H-thymidine was dosed on day 4 (58%), decreasing to 2% by day 7. Final TRAP+ MNC numbers were depleted by 80% when treated for 24 h with hydroxyurea on either day 3 or 4; this inhibition dropped to 57% and 12% when hydroxyurea was pulsed during days 5 or 6, respectively. The absence of 1,25(OH)2D3 during days 1-4 caused 70% attenuation of TRAP+ MNC formation; however, exposure to 3H-thymidine during day 4 in this experiment resulted in subsequent labeling of 81% of the TRAP+ MNCs formed, indicating that precursor proliferation occurred in the absence of 1,25(OH)2D3. To demonstrate that proliferation required MCSF, cultures were exposed to a monoclonal anti-MCSF antibody during days 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7. Inhibition of TRAP+ MNC formation was 85% when antibody was added during day 3. Antibody treatment after day 5 had little effect on the OCLC number. Fusion of precursors showed steady progression with OCLCs containing 4.8 +/- 0.3 nuclei at the end of day 4, 8.3 +/- 0.5 nuclei after day 5, 12.0 +/- 1.3 after day 6, and 13.7 +/- 1.5 at the end of day 7. This steady accretion of nuclei was unaffected by doses of MCSF antibody which blocked proliferation. In conclusion, we have shown that OCLCs arise from an MCSF-dependent expansion of the precursor pool occurring during days 3 and 4. Fusion of these precursors, which begins as proliferation diminishes, is able to progress in the presence of anti-MCSF antibody. These results should help refine the analysis of factors affecting proliferation and fusion of osteoclasts in murine marrow culture.
The novel cyclic dinucleotide 3'-5' cyclic diguanylic acid binds to p21ras and enhances DNA synthesis but not cell replication in the Molt 4 cell line.	1. The effect of the novel, naturally occurring nucleotide 3'-5' cyclic diguanylic acid (c-di-GMP) on the lymphoblastoid Molt 4 cell line was studied. When exposed to this guanine nucleotide. Molt 4 cells exhibited a marked increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation, up to 200-fold at 50 microM c-di-GMP. Correspondingly, the DNA content of the treated cells was 9-fold higher than untreated cells. Stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into the cells was time- and concentration-dependent. This effect was specific and was not observed with GMP or cyclic GMP, nor with the unhydrolysable GTP analogues, guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate and guanosine 5'-[beta gamma-imido]-triphosphate. C-di-GMP entrance into the cells was experimentally verified and occurred without using any means of cell permeabilization. SDS/PAGE analysis of cells exposed to [32P]c-di-GMP, followed by autoradiography, revealed the labelling of three low-molecular-mass proteins at 18-27 kDa. The labelling is highly specific to c-di-GMP and its extent was not affected by other guanine nucleotides. 2. One of the c-di-GMP-binding proteins was found to be the p21ras protein, by immunoprecipitation with the anti-Ras monoclonal antibody Y13-259. The effects described appear to be unique for c-di-GMP and, taken together, raise the possibility that an irreversible binding of this guanine nucleotide to the growth-promoting p21ras protein results in a fixed active conformation of this protein affecting DNA synthesis. Strikingly, although at 48 h of growth markedly high DNA levels were found in Molt 4 cells treated with c-di-GMP, this guanine nucleotide had no effect on cell replication during this period. Thus Molt 4 cells exposed to c-di-GMP enter the S phase uncoordinated with their overall replication rate.
TPO/c-mpl ligand induces tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple cellular proteins including proto-oncogene products, Vav and c-Cbl, and Ras signaling molecules.	Thrombopoietin (TPO)/c-mpl ligand is a hematopoietic growth factor that stimulates proliferation and maturation of megakaryocytes. To analyze the signaling pathway downstream of the c-mpl product, we used a human megakaryoblastic cell line, Mo7e, that has been proved to be responsive to TPO in terms of DNA synthesis. In this study, we found that TPO treatment resulted in tyrosine phosphorylation of Jak-2 kinase. Moreover, it was revealed that several functional molecules involved in the Ras signaling pathway, Shc and Sos, were phosphorylated by treatment with TPO. Finally, tyrosine phosphorylation of the proto-oncogene products, Vav and c-Cbl, has been proved to be induced by TPO. These results suggest that TPO could activate several signaling pathways including the Jak/Stat pathway, the Ras pathway and possibly another pathway involving the c-Cbl proto-oncogene product.
Apoptosis of human glioma cells in response to calphostin C, a specific protein kinase C inhibitor.	Calphostin C acts at the regulatory domain as a highly selective inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC), and staurosporine acts at the catalytic domain as a nonspecific PKC inhibitor. The authors investigated the capacity of calphostin C and staurosporine to promote apoptotic fragmentation of DNA in four human glioma cell lines. The exposure of glioma cell lines to 100 nM calphostin C for 2 to 8 hours induced a decrease in particulate PKC activities and exposure for 16 to 24 hours produced a concentration-dependent increase in internucleosomal DNA cleavage on agarose gel electrophoresis. In addition, the human glioma cells showed the classic morphological features of apoptosis: cell shrinkage, nuclear condensation, and the formation of apoptotic bodies. A 24-hour exposure to staurosporine failed to induce internucleosomal DNA fragmentation at concentrations generally used to achieve maximum inhibition of enzyme activity (50 nM) but promoted fragmentation at considerably higher concentration (more than 200 nM). Deoxyribonucleic acid fragments obtained from cells exposed to 100 nM calphostin C for 16 to 24 hours possessed predominantly 5'-phosphate termini, consistent with the action of a Ca++/Mg(++)-dependent endonuclease. Northern and Western blot analyses revealed that the exposure to 100 nM calphostin C for 4 hours failed to alter bcl-2 transcript and protein, but exposure for more than 8 hours decreased the amount of bcl-2 transcript and protein. Together, these observations suggest that calphostin C is capable of inducing apoptotic DNA fragmentation and cell death in a highly concentration dependent manner in human glioma cells and that the apoptosis is closely associated with the decrease in transcription and translation of bcl-2.
Macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha receptors are present on cells enriched for CD34 expression from patients with chronic myeloid leukemia.	The response of normal and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), CD34+ cells to human macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha or LD78) was assessed. In tritiated thymidine incorporation assays, stem cell factor plus granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor stimulated thymidine incorporation in normal CD34+ cells was reduced to 72% of control values in the presence of MIP-1 alpha, whereas incorporation by CML CD34+ cells exposed to the same factors was not altered. In clonogenic assays, the presence of MIP-1 alpha gave a level of colony formation that was 71% of control values for normal progenitor cells, whereas for CML CD34+ cells colony formation was enhanced by 25%. These results suggest that, in vitro, CML progenitor cells are relatively refractory to the growth inhibitory effects of MIP-1 alpha. Using flow cytometry, the specific binding of a biotinylated human MIP-1 alpha/avidin fluorescein (FITC) conjugate to normal and CML mononuclear and CD34+ cell populations was quantified. The data indicate that (for both normal and CML CD34+ cells) there was a single population of cells that express cell surface receptors for MIP-1 alpha and this receptor expression was independent of cell cycle status. CML progenitor cells may be refractory to the effects of MIP-1 alpha as a result of events downstream from receptor expression.
Behavior of embryonic chick heart cells in culture. 2. Cellular responses to epidermal growth factor and other growth signals.	Muscle cell-enriched primary cell cultures were prepared from 8-day embryonic chick heart ventricles (74% of these cells showed positive staining with anti-cardiac myosin antibody). To determine if Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) affects cardiac muscle cells, immunostaining and autoradiography were performed to find the Muscle Cell Labeling Index (MLI). MLI represents the proportion of cardiac myosin-positive cells that specifically incorporated [3H]thymidine. The MLI for EGF-treated cells was 51%. Controls in Serum-free Nutrient Medium (SFNM) had a MLI of 34.5%. Combinations of growth signals also were tested. EGF, IGF-I (Insulin-like Growth Factor-I), or PDGF (Platelet-derived Growth Factor) alone increased [3H]thymidine incorporation in the cells. Adding IGF-I or PDGF simultaneously with EGF enhanced the response of the cells to EGF by increasing [3H]thymidine incorporation. TGF-beta (Transforming Growth Factor-beta) alone was shown to have an inhibitory effect on [3H]thymidine incorporation, and when TGF-beta was added together with EGF, it attenuated the stimulatory effect of EGF on [3H]thymidine incorporation. Phorbol 12-Myristate 13-Acetate (PMA), a tumor promoter, alone had no effect on [3H]thymidine incorporation, but its addition suppressed the stimulatory effect of EGF when they were added simultaneously in the presence of 5% FBS. Developmental response of the heart cells to growth signals also was tested. Heart cells from 18-day embryos were used to test the effect of insulin and EGF. Although both insulin and EGF increased [3H]thymidine incorporation in heart cells from 8-day embryos, different responses to insulin and EGF occurred with heart cells from 18-day embryos. Whereas the heart cells from 18-day embryos still responded to EGF by increasing [3H]thymidine incorporation, they did not show a response to insulin as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation, suggesting that the loss of response of the heart cells to growth signals may occur at the receptor level. Further studies show that EGF, TGF-alpha, aFGF, and PDGF increased the total numbers of heart cells, and that aFGF and PDGF also increased the percentages of heart muscle cells.
Differences between thymic and splenic cells of the rat: biochemical and physico-chemical investigations in vitro on DNA topoisomerase II--inhibitors and thiyl radicals.	Interactions of novobiocin (NB) and nalidixic acid (NA) with thiols were investigated in vitro in thymic (T-) and splenic (S-) cells of the rat, by determining nucleic acid synthesis as well as nucleoid sedimentation and viscosity of alkaline cell lysates. In T-cells NB, at concentrations of 0.35-1.4 mM, increased unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) and RNA synthesis (RNS), whereas S-cells underwent a dose-dependent inhibition of UDS and RNS following exposure to NB at concentrations > 0.7 mM. Combining NA and thiols (e.g., dithiothreitol) resulted in a slight stimulation of UDS in S-cells and in a highly significant increase of UDS in T-cells ascribed to a depletion of the cellular thymidine pool. In both cell types, neither NB nor NA exerted a significant effect on thiol-induced DNA damage. At a concentration of 1.4 mM, NB increased the viscosity of alkaline T-cell lysates; the opposite effect was observed in S-cells. From these results as well as from previous investigations we conclude that T- and S-cells differ in their state of chromatin conformation. This interpretation offers a simple model for the study of the influence of chromatin structure on cell-specific physico-and/or chemico-biological interactions.
Effects of insulin-like growth factor-I and its analogues on bovine hydrogen peroxide release by neutrophils and blastogenesis by mononuclear cells.	The biological potencies of recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and two of its analogues were examined for hydrogen peroxide release by neutrophils and blastogenesis by mononuclear cells. The binding affinities of these peptides for bovine serum IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) and IGF-I receptors on bovine neutrophils and mononuclear cells were also investigated. Relative to control treatment containing no IGF-I, preincubation of neutrophils with 12.5 micrograms/l of IGF-I, des(1-3)IGF-I (an analogue of human IGF-I lacking the N-terminal tripeptide Gly-Pro-Glu) and long R3 IGF-I (an analogue of human IGF-I with arginine replacing glutamate at position 3 of human IGF-I and the N-terminal extension Met-Phe-Pro-Ala-Met-Pro-Leu-Ser-Ser-Leu-Phe-Val-Asn) increased the release of H2O2 by 65%, 64% and 32% respectively. However, the difference in stimulating the release of H2O2 between long R3 IGF-I and other two (IGF-I and des(1-3)IGF-I) was reduced at a dosage of 100 micrograms/l. In the absence or presence of 2.5% fetal calf serum (FCS), 100 micrograms/l of IGF-I, des(1-3)IGF-I but not long R3 IGF-I significantly stimulated thymidine incorporation into mononuclear cells. In addition, des(1-3)IGF-I was more potent than IGF-I in stimulating thymidine incorporation into mononuclear cells in the presence of 2.5% FCS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Substitution of glutamine for arginine 1131. A newly identified mutation in the catalytic loop of the tyrosine kinase domain of the human insulin receptor.	We studied a patient with severe insulin resistance and a remarkable decrease in the in vivo autophosphorylation of the insulin receptor. Using a polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism method and direct sequencing, we identified a heterozygous mutation substituting Gln for Arg1131 in the putative "catalytic loop" of the tyrosine kinase domain of the insulin receptor gene. The Gln1131 mutant receptor was expressed by transfection in Chinese hamster ovary cells and compared with cells expressing the wild-type insulin receptor. Both mutant and wild-type receptors were expressed on the cell surface and displayed similar insulin-binding affinity. The Gln1131 mutation impaired the activity of the receptor tyrosine kinase and inhibited the ability of insulin to phosphorylate the endogenous substrate insulin receptor substrate-I. In addition, the Gln1131 mutant receptor exhibited diminished tyrosine-phosphorylated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and myelin basic protein kinase activities compared with the wild-type cells. It also demonstrated a defective mediation of the insulin signal stimulating 2-deoxy-D-glucose transport and thymidine incorporation, resistance to endocytosis, and insulin-induced down-regulation. Unlike a previously described mutation in the putative catalytic loop of the receptor that substituted Glu for Ala1135, the Gln1131 mutation retained proteolytic cleavage of the proreceptor into separate subunits. Our results demonstrate that a naturally occurring mutation (R1131Q) in the putative catalytic loop of the insulin receptor results in severe impairment of the tyrosine kinase function in our patient. In addition, our results indicate that Arg1131 is important for receptor-mediated insulin action in vivo and suggest that the amino acids constituting the catalytic loop of protein kinases may possess different modes in order to retain kinase function.
Product of the steel locus suppresses apoptosis in hemopoietic cells. Comparison with pathways activated by granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor.	Steel factor (SF), also referred to as Kit ligand, stem cell factor, or mast cell growth factor, is essential for the development of hematopoietic stem cells in vivo. It is shown here that SF is mainly a survival factor for hemopoietic cells with little if any proliferative effect. In contrast, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) acts both as a survival factor and as a potent growth factor. We have probed the pathways activated by SF and GM-CSF in suppression of active cell death (apoptosis) using two classes of inhibitors: Tyrphostins that are specific inhibitors of protein tyrosine kinase, and amiloride derivatives (5-(N,N-ethyl-n-isopropyl)amiloride and 5-(N,N-hexamethylene)amiloride) that have been designed as specific inhibitors of the Na+/H+ antiporter. Both SF-dependent and GM-CSF-dependent pathways are sensitive to inhibition by Tyrphostins with, nonetheless, a quantitative difference. All Tyrphostins tested are more potent inhibitors of c-Kit than of GM-CSF receptor triggered pathways, the most striking being Tyrphostin B42 that is 10 times more potent. In contrast to the discrepancy in Tyrphostin dose-response curves, titration curves for 5-(N-ethyl-n-isopropyl)amiloride and 5-(N,N-hexamethylene)amiloride are comparable in SF- or GM-CSF-stimulated cells. Furthermore, SF induces a rapid and sustained alkalinization of the intracellular pH, as assessed with the pH-sensitive probe 2',7'-bis(2-carboxyethyl)-5-carboxyfluorescein. Taken together, our data indicate that input from two distinct pathways with discrepancy in immediate early events, that of c-Kit and GM-CSF receptor, results in a common output, activation of the Na+/H+ antiporter and suppression of apoptosis by the two ligands.
Effects of epidermal growth factor receptor blocking in cultured glioma spheroids.	A concentration as high as 1 microgram/ml of non-radioactive epidermal growth factor, EGF/was necessary to inhibit effectively the binding of 125I-EGF in glioma U-343MGaC12:6 cells. This concentration blocked the available EGF receptors within 30 minutes in monolayers, while 24 hour treatments were required in spheroids. The effects on growth, incorporation of radioactive thymidine, cell density and on extracellular pH were analysed in spheroids after exposure to 1 microgram/ml EGF. The high EGF concentration did not significantly modify the growth curves for monolayers and small spheroids but increased the volume growth of large spheroids. The increase was partly due to lower cell density and partly to increased proliferation. The EGF treatment gave an increased incorporation of thymidine in spheroids, for at least up to 5 days after the administration, while no effect was seen in monolayers. The cell density decreased after the EGF treatment as seen from morphometric analysis in histological sections and by counting the number of cells per volume unit after trypsinization. The capacity to take up radiolabelled dextran increased, probably due to the decreased cell density. Other EGF-induced changes were also recognized, such as a reduction in extracellular pH by 0.1 units in the central regions of spheroids and an increase in intracellular pH by 0.47 units in analysed monolayer cells. The results showed that it is not possible to block the EGF-receptors without imposing changes in growth and metabolism.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc is induced by IL-3, IL-5 and GM-CSF.	The receptors for IL-3, IL-5 and GM-CSF belong to the hematopoietic receptor superfamily and have no intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity but nevertheless indirectly induce protein tyrosine phosphorylation. In order to directly compare the effects of IL-3, IL-5 and GM-CSF on protein tyrosine phosphorylation we analyzed the murine cell line FDCP-1 which proliferates equally well in response to IL-3 and GM-CSF and the cell line B13 which responds to both IL-3 and IL-5. The protein tyrosine phosphorylation pattern induced by IL-3, IL-5 and GM-CSF in these cell lines was shown to be remarkably similar and all three cytokines induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc, a src homology domain-2 containing protein which has been shown to be involved in Ras activation by tyrosine kinase receptors.
Pretherapeutic cytostatic agent sensitivity testing of breast cancer.	With and without addition of cytostatic agents, incorporation of radiolabeled precursors into the nucleic acid of breast cancer cells was determined in short-term culture. The labeling index, a measure of tumor proliferation, depended largely on cytologic differentiation. Incorporation of radiolabeled precursors in moderately and low differentiated breast cancers was significantly high, whereas only in a part of these tumors was incorporation inhibited by adriamycin and cyclophosphamide. Therefore a group of drug sensitive and metabolic drug resistant tumors could be defined in vitro. Primary resistance against the tested cytostatic agents has been proved in low proliferating and high differentiated breast cancer cells.
Inclusion of labeled precursors of macromolecular compounds in the mycobacterial cells in the presence of DP-2 preparation]	The changes in the inclusion of 3H-phenylalanine, methyl-3H-thymidine, [2-14C]-thymidine and [5-3H]-uridine in the cells of pathogenic M. bovis-8, opportunistic M. fortuitum and saprophitic M. phlei, M. B-5 were comparatively investigated in introduction of 0.01 and 0.10% concentrations of the drug DP-2. It is shown that 0.10% DP-2 completely stops the radionuclides supply to the cells. It is suggested that the target of the drug may exist in the sphere of amino acid biosynthesis. The presence of DP-2 is capable of disturbing transport of substances to the cells.
The involvement of insulin-like growth factor-I in local control of steroidogenesis and DNA synthesis of Leydig and non-Leydig cells in the rat testicular interstitium.	Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) peptide, receptors and binding proteins are present in the rodent testis, which strongly implies that IGF-I has one or more testicular functions. In the present study we provide further information to support the concept that IGF-I is an important local mediator in the testis. High concentrations of IGF-I were measurable in interstitial fluid by radioimmunoassay, and IGF-I-binding proteins (IGFBPs) were readily detectable in interstitial fluid by ligand blotting, the predominant type being IGFBP-2. In vitro, IGF-I bound to testicular interstitial cells which did not have 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) activity and which were resistant to ethane dimethanesulphonate treatment. In vitro, IGF-I receptor-mediated actions increased both steroidogenesis and DNA synthesis. Insulin stimulated DNA synthesis at concentrations appropriate to cross-react with the IGF-I receptor, and this effect was greater in a testicular interstitial Leydig cell-depleted cell population compared with a Leydig cell-enriched cell culture. Furthermore, combinations of epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor -alpha together with insulin appeared to act synergistically, causing extremely large increases in [3H]thymidine incorporation in the interstitial cells. These results support a paracrine and/or autocrine role for IGF-I in interstitial cell growth and development.
Phospholipid metabolism of 3T3 mouse fibroblasts after serum stimulation and through the G1 and S cell cycle phases : incorporation and disappearance of 32P.	Phospholipid metabolism of 3T3 mouse fibroblasts has been studied after serum stimulation of arrested cells. The study of [32Pi] incorporation shows : a) in the case of PE and PC an early peak of incorporation in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, 6 hours after serum addition; b) in the case of PI an intense initial increasing of the incorporation which continues up to a S phase peak. The study of the disappearance of [32P] Phosphate from the different phospholipids points out: a) at the beginning of serum stimulation, an intense breakdown of PI, that continues through the G1 and S phases. Except at the onset, the breakdown of PI, is at any time exactly compensated for by synthesis : the two phenomena are closely linked; b) a synthesis of PE, from PC probably, at the G1 phase, 4 hours after the serum addition and the beginning of the chase experiment.
Insulin-like growth factor-I and -II binding and action on DNA synthesis in rainbow trout spermatogonia and spermatocytes.	Radio-labeled recombinant human insulin-like growth factor (125I-rhIGF-I) bound specifically to total testicular cells and to spermatogonia plus primary spermatocytes (Go+CI) that had been prepared from trout testes at various maturation stages by centrifugal elutriation and then cleared of somatic cells by preculture in the presence of 2% Ultroser G. Binding sites showed high affinity (Ka = 0.5 +/- 0.2 x 10(10) M-1) and low capacity (1.1 +/- 0.8 fmol/10(6) testicular cells) for 125I-IGF-I. (Gln3, Ala4, Tyr15, Leu16)IGF-I ([QAYL]IGF-I) was equipotent to IGF-I in competing with 125I-IGF-I for site occupancy on Go+CI. Insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) was to 10-fold less potent than IGF-I or (QAYL)IGF-I, while bovine insulin competed only about 300-fold higher concentrations. Go+CI were cultured for 3 days in the presence or absence of mammalian IGF-I, IGF-II, (QAYL)IGF-I, and salmon or bovine insulin. All these molecules stimulated the incorporation of [3H]thymidine (added during the last 24 h in culture) by Go+CI in a dose-dependent manner. The mean ED50, independent of testicular maturation stage, was 5.9 +/- 4.9 ng/ml and 29.1 +/- 15.8 ng/ml for IGF-I and IGF-II, respectively. (QAYL)IGF-I was as potent as IGF-I. Concentrations of salmon or bovine insulin 100- to 300-fold higher were required to produce effects similar to those of IGF-I. While recombinant human IGF binding protein (IGFBP-3) had no effect by itself of basal [3H]thymidine incorporation, it inhibited the effect of IGF-I in a dose-dependent manner; however, it had no effect on the stimulation by (QAYL)IGF-F. Although combinations of low concentrations of IGF-I and IGF-II or salmon insulin had additive effects, combinations of maximum concentrations did not. We conclude that, in vitro, IGFs stimulate DNA synthesis of trout male germ cells by interacting directly with these cells through one IGF receptor.
Biochemical effects of neonatal testosterone treatment on the female rat hypothalmus during postnatal development. I. DNA synthesis.	The effect of 1 mg testosterone propionate (TP) administered on the 2nd day of life was studied on DNA synthesis in the anterior and posterior pats of the hypothalamus, in the forebrain, anterior pituitary and liver in 5, 7, 14 and 21 days old female rats. As an index of DNA synthesis the rate of 2-14C-thymidine (40 muCi/100 g body weight) incorporation into DNA was measured 1 hr after a subcutaneous injection . As an effect of TP treatment in both hypothalamic regions the rate of thymidine incorporation into DNA, markedly decreased during the first two weeks of life, while at 21 days no difference from the control value was found. In the anterior pituitary too therate of DNA synthesis decreased at 5 and 7 days but at 14 and 21 days the values were similar to the controls. TP treatment had no effect on the rate of DNA synthesis in the forebrain or in the liver.
Intratesticular retention of sperm and premature decline in fertility in the domestic rooster, Gallus domesticus.	In domestic roosters, which were originally seasonal breeders and that are now kept under unnatural and unchanging conditions throughout the year, fertility peaks at 32 weeks of age (96%) but it subsequently declines rapidly to only 5% at 110 weeks despite the fact that roosters can live for about 10 years. Roosters exhibiting this low-fertility syndrome have reduced levels of spermatozoa in the ejaculate. Concomitantly, however, superabundant but apparently normal spermatozoa are found attached to Sertoli cells and, in addition, the seminiferous epithelium fails to show evidence of the regression of atrophy that characterizes both aging non-seasonal breeders and true seasonal breeders during non-reproductive periods. This syndrome of premature low fertility appears to stem from impaired spermiation with resultant retention of spermatozoa by Sertoli cells. To examine this problem, we compared intratesticular incorporation of 3H-thymidine between high-fertility (32-week-old) and low-fertility (82-week-old) roosters. Radioactivity associated with spermatozoa, 33 days post-injection, was almost 50% higher in the low-fertility roosters than in the high-fertility ones. By contrast, both groups showed similar characteristics with respect to a) intratesticular incorporation of 3H-thymidine, b) dynamics of spermatogenesis, c) intratesticular level of radioactivity just before the initiation of spermiation, and d) the duration of both spermatogenesis and the time required for sperm to pass through the genital tract. Our results confirm that intratesticular retention of sperm occurs in roosters with premature low-fertility syndrome and suggest new possibilities for the study of the complex relationship between Sertoli cells and spermatozoa and the effects of this relationship on fertility.
Estrogens and non-estrogenic ovarian influences combine to promote the recruitment and decrease the turnover of new neurons in the adult female canary brain.	The higher vocal center (HVC) of the songbird forebrain exhibits persistent neurogenesis in adulthood, particularly in a region of the mediocaudal neostriatum that is associated with a subventricular layer of estrogen receptive cells. We asked whether estrogens might influence adult neurogenesis, by assessing the effect of ovariectomy on HVC neuronal production in the adult female canary. Fifteen 1-year-old females were separated into groups of ovariectomized, estradiol-replaced ovariectomized, and gonadally intact birds. To label dividing cells and their progeny, the birds were given [3H]thymidine for 8 days, killed 32 days later, and their brains autoradiographed. A significant rise was noted in the number of HVC neurons per section in estradiol-treated birds relative to the untreated control birds. The number of [3H]thymidine-labeled HVC neurons was also higher in the estrogen-treated birds; however, the neuronal labeling index (LI) did not vary as a function of estradiol replacement, as the total number of HVC neurons rose in parallel with the added new neurons. In contrast, the neuronal LI did rise as a result of ovariectomy, and this ovariectomy-associated increase in the LI was not reversed by estradiol. Among non-neuronal cell types, the endothelial LI was higher in estrogen-treated birds than in their untreated counterparts, suggesting estrogen-associated angiogenesis. Radioimmunoassay confirmed that serum estradiol was reduced in the castrated birds. Since estrogen appeared to promote the survival of [3H]thymidine+ neurons, we next sought to determine whether estrogen acted directly on the newly generated neurons, or rather indirectly through an intermediary cell population. To this end, we asked whether the new neurons or their precursors expressed estrogen receptor immunoreactivity (ER-IR). Five adult male canaries were given [3H]thymidine for periods ranging from 2 to 28 days, killed at varying times up to 3 weeks thereafter, then probed for ER-IR and autoradiographed. [3H]thymidine+ cells displayed no detectable ER-IR within their first 4 weeks of postmitotic life. Rather, during migration from the ventricular zone (VZ), the new neurons traversed a layer of mitotically quiescent, ER+ subventricular cells. Double labeling for ER-IR and cell-type selective antigens confirmed that these ER+ cells were neurons. These results indicate that the early survival of new neurons in the adult songbird HVC is promoted by estrogen, and may be mediated by the estrogen-stimulated paracrine release of neurotrophic agents by ER-IR subventricular neurons. Our data suggest that estrogen's promotion of neuronal survival may operate concurrently with an estrogen-independent ovarian suppression of neuronal mitogenesis.
Pharmacokinetics of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in children after intravenous and subcutaneous administration.	Despite its widespread use, only limited pharmacokinetic data exist for recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF), especially in children. We evaluated the pharmacokinetics of rhGM-CSF in children who had undergone intensive multiagent chemotherapy: 11 children with refractory solid tumors received 500-1500 micrograms/m2 of rhGM-CSF (sargramostim) as a daily 2-h intravenous (iv) infusion, and seven children received subcutaneous (sc) rhGM-CSF at 1500-2000 micrograms/m2/d in two daily injections for 2 weeks. Serum samples obtained before and after rhGM-CSF administration were analyzed for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) by a bioassay and by ELISA. Concentrations measured by the two methods were highly correlated (r2 = 0.89, p < 0.001). Following 2-h iv infusions, the concentration-time data were best described by a two-compartment, first-order elimination model. The median (range) for rhGM-CSF systemic clearance (CI) was 49 mL/min/m2 (range, 15-118 mL/min/m2), terminal half-life (t1/2) was 1.6 h (range, 0.9-2.5 h), and the time the GM-CSF concentration was > 1 ng/mL was 9 h (range, 6-13 h). The CI was not dose dependent or related to patient age. The absolute neutrophil count day 14 of GM-CSF was significantly related to GM-CSF dosage and platelet count on day 1. There was a weak correlation between AUC and duration of neutropenia (p = 0.05). The sc concentration-time data were best described by a one-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination. Median apparent clearance was 72 mL/min/m2 (range, 27-231 mL/min/m2) and t1/2 was 2.3 h (range 0.7-3.8 h).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The proliferation of epidermal cells in mouse ear organ culture.	Mouse ear fragments were cultured for up to 1 day in a chemically defined fluid medium and for 2-3 days in a solid Agar medium. Within 24 h of incubation, the epidermal cells were found to migrate towards the cut edges, a process which led to an epithelialization of the denuded surface. Concomitantly, the epidermal cell proliferation was enhanced: an entry of increasing numbers of interfollicular cells into S phase occurred after 7-10 h of incubation and was maximal around the 20th h. Correspondingly, the mitotic rate rose after 20 h. During an incubation period of 48-72 h in solid medium, the mitotic activity of the proliferating tissues in mouse ear skin continued, and the interfollicular epidermis in the proximity of the cut edges became hyperplastic. Thus, mouse ear epidermis kept in this organ culture seems to resemble a wounded epidermis in vivo. Epidermal cell proliferation was studied by determining (a) the mitotic rate and (b) the incorporation of tritiated thymidine by means of liquid scintillation spectrometry and autoradiography. Various factors affecting the incorporation of tritiated thymidine were investigated, and it was concluded that liquid scintillation spectrometry proves to be a rapid and suitable method for determining the effects of both growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting agents on epidermal cell proliferation.
Neonatal rat islets of Langerhans and fetal rat pancreas. Isolation, immunohistochemical, functional, and autoradiographic evaluation.	The aim of this study was to develop an optimal isolation technique for neonatal rat islets of Langerhans, to perform functional evaluation in vitro, to evaluate immunohistochemically isolated rat islets and fetal rat pancreata after a variable period of culture, and to study growth potentials by means of autoradiography. The islets were isolated using minor modifications of standard procedures including collagenase and DNase. Islets were separated on a discontinuous Percoll gradient. The maximum yield of islets amounted to 240 per pancreas. Fetal pancreata from rats were cultured under similar conditions as neonatal islets to compare their insulin secretory capacity after different periods of culture. The insulin secretion increased gradually, and isolated islets achieved a similar secretion potential to adult rat islets. The mitotic activity of both islets and fetal pancreata was confirmed using tritiated thymidine. The isolation procedure was found suitable for producing well-functioning islets, which could be kept in culture for a period of about 1 month without deterioration in their insulin secretory capacity. The gradual increase in insulin secretory capacity of islets and fetal pancreata was due, in part, to hyperplasia and not just hypertrophia. Autoradiographical evaluation revealed a high mitotic activity after culture, in particular of fetal pancreata. Fetal pancreata cultured for about 10 days showed a phenomenon of budding endocrine cells at the organ surface. A high mitotic activity was found in these buds.
Metformin attenuates agonist-stimulated calcium transients in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Metformin, an antidiabetic agent that increases insulin sensitivity, has been shown to lower blood pressure. However, the mechanism of action of metformin in vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cell is not fully understood. We have tested the hypothesis that metformin produces vascular changes by direct interaction with VSM cells by investigating its effect on platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)- and angiotensin II (ANG II)-stimulated intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and VSM cell proliferation in response to PDGF in cultured cells. VSM cells were cultured from rat thoracic aorta and [Ca2+]i was estimated in single cells by image analysis. Treatment of VSM cells with 1 or 2 microgram/ml metformin significantly decreased (p < 0.05) PDGF- or ANG II-stimulated [Ca2+]i. Treatment of VSM cells with 1, 2, 5, or 10 micrograms/ml metformin had no significant effect on PDGF-stimulated [3H]-thymidine incorporation. However, metformin at pharmacological doses of 20 and 50 micrograms/ml significantly reduced (p < 0.05) PDGF-stimulated thymidine incorporation. We conclude that metformin mediates its vascular effects by attenuating agonist-stimulated [Ca2+]i.
Effects of 22-oxacalcitriol on bone metabolism in vitro: comparison with calcitriol--effects of 22-oxacalcitriol on osteoclast-like cell formation and bone-resorbing activity.	22-Oxacalcitriol (OCT), a synthetic vitamin D3 analog, can mimic the ability of calcitriol to differentiate leukemia and skin cells, to enhance the immune response and to suppress parathyroid hormone secretion, but has much less calcemic activity than that of calcitriol. The mechanism of this selective action remains not fully understood, and the actions of OCT on bone metabolism are little known. The present study was, therefore, designed to investigate the effects of OCT and calcitriol on: the proliferation and functions of osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells; osteoclast-like cell formation from hemopoietic blast cells in the absence of stromal cells as well as from unfractionated bone cells in the presence of stromal cells; bone resorption; and the proliferation of MC3T3-E1 cells via monocytes. 22-Oxacalcitriol and calcitriol inhibited [3H]thymidine (TdR) incorporation, alkaline phosphatase activity and collagen synthesis of MC3T3-E1 cells to a similar degree. Both OCT (10(-10)-10(-8) mol/l) and calcitriol significantly and similarly stimulated osteoclast-like cell formation from both hemopoietic blast cells and unfractionated bone cells. 22-Oxacalcitriol (10(-10) and 10(-8) mol/l) significantly stimulated bone resorption, although to a slightly lesser degree than did calcitriol. Human monocyte-conditioned medium (CM) significantly stimulated TdR incorporation into MC3T3-E1 cells. On the other hand, CM obtained from monocytes treated with calcitriol (10(-10)-10(-8) mol/l) significantly inhibited TdR incorporation in a dose-related fashion, whereas CM obtained from monocytes treated with OCT (10(-10)-10(-8) mol/l) significantly stimulated TdR incorporation in a dose-related fashion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calmodulin and in vitro regenerating frog sciatic nerves: release and extracellular effects.	Although calmodulin (CaM) is commonly considered to be an intracellular protein, it has been suggested lately that it is released and exerts functions extracellularly. In the present investigation this was studied in in vitro regenerating adult frog (Rana temporaria) sciatic nerves. Using a multi-compartment incubation chamber, the non-neuronal cells in the outgrowth region of such nerves were radiolabelled with amino acid precursors. Based on immunological criteria, these cells were shown to release CaM. When the nerves were treated with CaM, both the outgrowth of sensory axons and the injury-induced proliferation of non-neuronal cells were partially inhibited. The inhibitory effects occurred even when the incubation medium contained as little as 30 pM CaM. Furthermore, treatment with anti-CaM antibodies resulted in reduced outgrowth, which suggested that during normal conditions extracellular CaM is kept at an optimal concentration. Finally, conditioned medium was found to contain several CaM-binding proteins. The present findings may reflect an earlier unknown function of extracellular CaM in controlling various growth mechanisms in integrated tissues.
Effects of adrenochrome and epinephrine on human arterial endothelial cells in vitro.	The effects of adrenochrome and epinephrine were investigated in cultured human umbilical arterial endothelial cells. The cells were exposed to either adrenochrome or epinephrine at levels of 50 and 200 microM, respectively, up to 24 hrs. At 3, 5, 7 and 24 hrs of the designed harvesting time, [3H]thymidine incorporation, protein content, [3H]cholesterol uptake, prostacyclin production and lipid peroxidation were measured. We found that adrenochrome at a level of 200 microM inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation, decreased protein content, stimulated [3H]cholesterol uptake, and decreased prostacyclin production after 3, 5, 24 and 5 hrs of exposure, respectively, compared with control. It took 24 hrs however for epinephrine at a level of 200 microM to inhibit [3H]thymidine incorporation and prostacyclin production. When the concentration was reduced to 50 microM, only adrenochrome inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation after 24 hrs of treatment. Both adrenochrome and epinephrine had no effect on lipid peroxidation. We suggest that atherogenic changes found in severe hypertension may be due to abnormal high concentration of epinephrine, especially oxidized epinephrine, on endothelial cell functions, such as DNA synthesis, cholesterol uptake and prostacyclin production.
Characterization of a mutant mouse lymphoma cell with deficient transport of purine and pyrimidine nucleosides.	A clone (AE1) of cells resistant to adenosine cytotoxicity was isolated from a mutagenized population of mouse T-lymphoma (S49) cells. These adenosine-resistant cells cannot transport adenosine or any other purine or pyrimidine nucleoside tested, but their transport of purine bases is intact. The AE1 cells also have an impaired ability to salvage thymidine. Kinetic analyses of the uptake of purine and pyrimidine nucleosides further substantiate the evidence that the facilitated transport of purine and pyrimidine nucleosides in S49 cells is mediated by the same carrier. Growth rate and transport studies indicate that the lack of expression of the nucleoside transport in AE1 cells is recessive in intraspecies cell-cell hybrids.
Relaxin activates the L-arginine-nitric oxide pathway in human breast cancer cells.	Recently, we demonstrated that relaxin (RLX), a peptide hormone of ovarian origin, inhibits growth and promotes differentiation of MCF-7 breast adenocarcinoma cells. We also showed that RLX stimulates the production of nitric oxide (NO) in several cell types. NO has been reported to have antitumor activity by inhibiting proliferation, promoting differentiation, and reducing the metastatic spread of some tumor cell types. In this study, we aimed at evaluating whether RLX influences the L-arginine-NO pathway in MCF-7 cells. The cells were grown in the absence or presence of RLX at different concentrations, and cell proliferation, constitutive and inducible NO synthase activities, nitrite production, and intracellular levels of cyclic GMP were investigated. The results obtained indicate that RLX increases inducible NO synthase activity and potentiates NO production. This was accompanied by an elevation of intracellular cyclic GMP, which is known to mediate the cell response to NO. The RLX-induced activation of the L-arginine-NO pathway in the MCF-7 cells was inversely related to the rate of cell proliferation. These results suggest that the cytostatic effect of RLX on MCF-7 breast cancer cells may rely on its ability to stimulate endogenous production of NO.
T-cell lymphokines, interleukin-4 and gamma interferon, modulate the induction of vascular smooth muscle cell tissue plasminogen activator and migration by serum and platelet-derived growth factor.	Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced smooth muscle cell (SMC) fibrinolysis is necessary for SMC migration. In order to determine whether the T-cell lymphokines interleukin-4 (IL-4) and gamma interferon (gamma-IFN) affect SMC fibrinolysis and migration, we examined the effects of human recombinant IL-4 and gamma-IFN on human aortic SMC tissue-type plasminogen activator (TPA), urokinase-type plasminogen activator (UPA), and plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) antigen production, as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Although IL-4 had no direct effect on SMC TPA antigen, IL-4 potentiated SMC TPA antigen levels and activity in conditioned media and cellular lysates in media containing 2% fetal bovine serum but did not change UPA or PAI-1 production. gamma-IFN attenuated IL-4 augmentation of SMC TPA antigen production in conditioned media, although gamma-IFN itself had no direct effects on SMC TPA and PAI-1 antigen production. IL-4 augmented PDGF induction of SMC TPA antigen. gamma-IFN inhibited PDGF induction of SMC TPA antigen and IL-4 potentiation of this process. gamma-IFN diminished the promigratory effects of both IL-4 and PDGF on in vitro SMC migration. Tranexamic acid, a plasmin inhibitor, abrogated the stimulation of SMC migration by IL-4. Therefore, IL-4 and gamma-IFN modulate the induction of SMC TPA and SMC migration by 2% fetal bovine serum and PDGF.
Activin stimulates Sertoli cell proliferation in a defined period of rat testis development.	The action of activin-A on Sertoli and spermatogonial cell proliferation during early postnatal life was studied by using in vitro organ culture of testis fragments from 9-day-old rats. Activin significantly stimulated 3H-thymidine incorporation into testis fragments cultured for 3 days in the presence of FSH, whereas it had no effect in the absence of the hormone. This effect was dose dependent in the range 10-200 ng/ml and was specifically inhibited by the activin-binding protein, follistatin. The effect of activin upon proliferation of different testicular cells was studied in detail by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeling fragments at the end of in vitro culture and then determining percentages of different labeled cells on immunostained histological sections. Concomitant treatment with FSH and activin, but not with FSH or activin alone, significantly stimulated Sertoli cell proliferation but markedly depressed that of differentiating type A spermatogonia. In contrast, proliferative activity of undifferentiated type A spermatogonia was independent of activin, irrespective of the presence of FSH. The effect of donor animal age was then investigated by culturing fragments derived from 3- and 18-day-old rats for 3 days. An age-related response was evident. Sertoli cell proliferation was stimulated by FSH alone in fragments from 3-day-old rats, activin having no apparent effect at this age. In contrast, none of the hormones tested either alone or in combination was effective in 18-day-old animals. These results demonstrate that activin acts with FSH in maintaining mitotic potentiality of Sertoli cells in a defined phase of their maturation path, when their proliferative activity is approaching the final arrest. These findings suggest that activin may be an important local factor in regulating Sertoli cell number and that the mitosis of differentiating spermatogonia subsides during Sertoli cell proliferation.
Formation of cartilage-like spheroids by micromass cultures of murine C3H10T1/2 cells upon treatment with transforming growth factor-beta 1.	Formation of cartilage during both embryonic development and repair processes involves the differentiation of multipotential mesenchymal cells. The mouse cell line, C3H10T1/2, has been shown to be multipotential and capable of differentiating into various phenotypes normally derived from embryonic mesoderm, including myocytes, adipocytes and chondrocytes. In this study, we have analyzed the induction of chrondrogenesis in C3H10T1/2 cells by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta 1, human recombinant form). Treatment of high-density micromass cultures of C3H10T1/2 cells with TGF-beta 1 resulted in the formation of a three dimensional spheroid structure, which exhibited cartilage-like histology. Extracellular matrix components characteristic of cartilage, type II collagen and cartilage link protein, were demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. TGF-beta 1 treatment increased collagen synthesis, and immunoblot analysis showed the presence of type II collagen in TGF-beta 1-treated micromass cultures, but not in TGF-beta 1-treated monolayer cultures nor in untreated cultures. An increase in radioactive sulfate uptake relative to DNA synthesis was also seen in TGF-beta 1-treated micromass cultures forming spheroids, indicating the increased synthesis of sulfated proteoglycans. These observations indicated that the spheroids formed are of a cartilaginous nature, and that multipotential C3H10T1/2 cells, which do not spontaneously enter the chondrogenic pathway, can be induced to undergo cellular differentiation towards chondrogenesis in vitro through culture in a favorable environment.
Effect of visible light on some cellular and immune parameters.	The biological effect of visible light of low energy density was investigated in this study. The effects of diffuse (DL) and linearly polarized (LPL) light were compared on models in vitro and in vivo. Experiments in vitro were performed on human lymphocytes to study their blast-transformation and rosette-formation abilities. Both DL and LPL increased the number of blast-transformed cells even in a lymphocyte culture without PHA, and reduced rosette-formation of T lymphocytes. LPL had a more pronounced effect. In vivo exposure to DL and LPL of the spleens of tumour-bearing mice caused the appearance of factor(s) in their serum, inhibiting the incorporation in vitro of [3H]-thymidine into the tumour cells obtained from non-exposed animals. In the other series of experiments serum samples were taken from tumorous animals after the exposure of their spleens to LPL. Following the daily administration of these sera to another group of non-exposed tumorous mice a decreasing tendency of the mitotic kinetics of ascites tumour was observed. The application of visible (preferably linearly polarized) light for the stimulation of human immune competent cells, and clinical trials with extracorporeal irradiation of blood for the promotion of natural defences of an immune-repressed organism are suggested.
The effect of carbamazepine and its reactive metabolite, 9-acridine carboxaldehyde, on immune cell function in vitro.	Carbamazepine, a widely used anticonvulsant, is associated with a wide range of adverse reactions including agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and drug-induced lupus. It has also been reported to alter immune function in a variety of ways. We had previously demonstrated that carbamazepine is oxidized by activated neutrophils to several metabolites and this leads to covalent binding of the drug to the cells. It appears that the major metabolite responsible for this binding is 9-acridine carboxyaldehyde. In this study the effects on leukocyte function of carbamazepine and its leukocyte-generated metabolites were compared. Incubation of lymphocytes with 100 microM 9-acridine carboxaldehyde resulted in 40% cell death while carbamazepine at this concentration had no effect on viability. The effect on the immune cell function was investigated using the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction (AMLR), allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR), lymphocyte transformation test (LTT) and mitogenesis assays. Alteration of immune cell function by the reactive metabolite, 9-acridine carboxyaldehyde, was demonstrated by an increased proliferation at low concentrations (0.08-1.0 microM) and inhibition at high concentrations (20-100 microM) in the allogeneic MLRs. Carbamazepine had no measurable effect. 9-Acridine appears to have more of an effect on B-cells since this augmentation-suppression phenomenon was also observed in mitogenesis assays with Staphylococcus aureus, a B-cell mitogen, in contrast to mostly inhibition observed in the mitogenesis assay with phytohemagglutinin, a T-cell mitogen. Again, carbamazepine had no measurable effects at comparable concentrations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of muscle cell proliferation by extracts from crushed muscle.	Cell culture studies were conducted to determine whether myotrophic factors were released from mature murine or bovine muscle following a crush injury. Murine crushed muscle extract (mCME) was added to C2 muscle (satellite) cell cultures at concentrations of 0, 50, 100, 200, and 400 micrograms of total protein/mL. Bovine crushed muscle extract (bCME) was added at concentrations of 0, 100, 200, 400, and 500 micrograms/mL. Murine CME and bCME at each concentration caused an increase (P < .01) in [3H]TdR incorporation into muscle cells compared to control cultures. The saturating concentrations (P < .01) of CME in the presence of 2% FBS were approximately 200 and 400 micrograms/mL for murine and bovine extracts, respectively. Murine CME or bCME acted in an additive fashion with independent, saturating concentrations of the insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and IGF-II), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) to increase (P < .01) C2 muscle cell proliferation. Subsequently, in separate experiments, mCME or bCME acted additively with a combination of all growth factors to increase (P < .01) cell proliferation. Combining mCME and bCME at saturating levels in one treatment was not (P > .05) additive to that elicited by either CME alone. These results suggest that myotrophic factors are released following injury in mature skeletal muscle, and they are not species-specific.
Effect of copper depletion and repletion on lymphocyte blastogenesis and neutrophil bactericidal function in beef heifers.	Thirty-two beef heifers were used to examine the effect of dietary copper depletion and repletion on neutrophil and lymphocyte functions. Heifers allotted to the control group (C+; n = 8) were fed a basal roughage/concentrate diet with Cu-sulfate supplementation (Cu > or = 8 ppm). To induce a Cu deficiency (depletion phase d 0 to 60), treated (T; n = 24) heifers received a diet supplemented with sulfur (.3% of diet) and sodium molybdate to achieve a Cu:Mo ratio of 1:1.5. Liver biopsies were collected on d 0, 27, and 60. Despite random allocation, T heifers had lower initial liver Cu concentrations (P < .01) than C+ heifers. At the start of the repletion phase (d 0, equal to d 60 of depletion), treated heifers were allotted by liver Cu concentration to three treatments (n = 8/treatment): Cu sulfate (S; Cu = 10 ppm), Cu proteinate (P; Cu = 10 ppm), or a negative control (C-) that remained on Mo and S supplementation. During the repletion phase, livers were biopsied on d 0, 14, and 45. By d 45, both S and P heifers had greater (P < .05) liver Cu concentrations than C- heifers. For both depletion and repletion phases, no treatment differences were detected in liver Mo or S concentrations. Jugular blood was collected on d 0, 27, and 55 of the depletion phase and d 0, 13, and 42 of the repletion phase. Neutrophils were isolated and incubated with Staphylococcus aureus to determine neutrophil bactericidal capacity (NBC).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Active cyclin B-cdc2 kinase does not inhibit DNA replication and cannot drive prematurely fertilized sea urchin eggs into mitosis.	Feedback mechanisms preventing M phase occurrence before S phase completion are assumed to depend on inhibition of cyclin B-cdc2 kinase activation by unreplicated DNA. In sea urchin, fertilization stimulates protein synthesis and releases eggs from G1 arrest. We found that in the one-cell sea urchin embryo cyclin B-cdc2 kinase undergoes partial activation before S phase, reaching in S phase a level that is sufficient for G2-M phase transition. S phase entry is not inhibited by this level of cyclin B-dependent kinase activity. Inhibition of DNA replication by aphidicolin suppresses nuclear envelope breakdown, yet it does not prevent the microtubule array from being converted from its interphasic to its mitotic state. Moreover, mitotic cytoplasmic events occur at the same time in control and aphidicolin-treated embryos. Thus unreplicated DNA only prevents mitotic nuclear, not cytoplasmic, events from occurring prematurely. These results together show that the inhibition of cyclin B-cdc2 kinase activation is probably not the only mechanism that prevents mitotic nuclear events from occurring as long as DNA replication has not been completed. In contrast, cytoplasmic mitotic events seem to be controlled by a timing mechanism independent of DNA replication, set up at fertilization, that prevents premature opening of a window for mitotic events.
Stimulation of proliferation and inhibition of function of xenotransplanted human thyroid tissue by epidermal growth factor.	A stimulation of thyroid epithelial cell proliferation by epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been repeatedly reported in different in vitro systems. Furthermore, a suppression of thyroid epithelial cell function by EGF has been described in vitro. In order to investigate the effects of EGF on the thyroid in vivo, human Graves' disease tissue was transplanted to 59 nu/nu mice. EGF was given once, and over a period of 7 days 7 times intermittently or continuously by osmotic mini pumps to mice. 3-H-thymidine histoautoradiography of transplants showed an increased 3-H-thymidine incorporation of thyroid epithelial cells and mesenchymal cells, following each form of EGF application. Thyroid epithelial cell nuclear volume, which has previously been shown to be a parameter for thyroid epithelial cell function showed a decrease following EGF application. There was a tendency to a more intensive proliferation and differentiation following intermittent EGF application compared to continuous stimulation. These results demonstrate that EGF does stimulate proliferation of thyroid epithelial as well as mesenchymal cells in vivo. The growth stimulating effect of EGF is linked with a concomitant decrease of thyroid function in vivo. The latter is most likely due to the dedifferentiating action of EGF previously shown in in vitro systems.
Local and systemic reduction by topical finasteride or flutamide of hamster flank organ size and enzyme activity.	The hamster flank organ is a widely used model of the control of sebaceous gland activity by androgens and anti-androgens. Finasteride, a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, was administered locally on the surface of the right flank organ and right ear twice daily for 4 weeks. The treatment caused similar 12% to 30% reductions in the size of the sebaceous glands in both flank organs. Moreover, relative mRNA levels of the androgen-regulated FAR-17a gene measured by in situ hybridization as well as [3H]-thymidine incorporation and 5 alpha-reductase activity were similarly decreased in the two flank organs after topical application. The pure anti-androgen flutamide, at the same doses, exerted a more potent effect on all the same parameters, and the effect was also comparable on both the treated and untreated sides of flank organs. Finasteride and flutamide significantly decreased ventral and dorsal prostatic weights after topical application. The present data show that the topical administration of finasteride, in analogy with flutamide, causes local inhibition of sebaceous gland growth in both the costovertebral organs and ears. However, as demonstrated by the similar inhibitory effect in the contralateral untreated side and the reduced weight of the dorsal and ventral lobes of the prostate and seminal vesicles, finasteride and flutamide both exert significant systemic effects.
The role of H-2 and H-2-like determinants in syngeneic and allogeneic cytostasis.	Specific sensitization against H-2 determinants was affected by immunizing allogeneic mice with spleen and lymph node cells in H-2 congenic combinations. Lymph nodes from the sensitized and non-sensitized mice were respectively cultured together with H-2 syngeneic tumour cell lines. The growth and viability of the tumour cells was subsequently measured by the amount of radiothymidine incorporation. If the tumour cells incorporated less isotope when cultured with the immune cells than with the normal cells this was termed 'cytostasis'. To identify the H-2 genes controlling the sensitization phase in the cytostasis assay, we studied the effect on different transplantable tumour target cells of lymphoid cells from mice sensitized against different congenic spleen cells. The results suggest that the cytostasis assay can can measure an in vitro specific response to H-2-incompatible sensitizing antigens, and that I--B incompatibility, together with K and/or D, is essential to produce effectors. Furthermore, H-2 allogeneic sensitization could induce cytostasis even against tumour cells syngeneic for the H-2 halotype of the responder strain. The implications of these findings are discussed.
The early stages of the morphogenesis and tissue lineage of an experimental malignant fibrous histiocytoma]	Morphologically atypical cells were first detected on the 98th day after subcutaneous implantation to rats of a paraffin pellet containing 2 mg of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). These cells subsequently formed groups and finally gave rise to malignant fibrous histiocytomas. Early atypical cells were located between proliferating fibroblasts and histiocytes in the center of a fibrous capsule surrounding the DMBA-pill. They exhibited a smooth cell surface, dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum, multiple Golgi complexes, and were often associated with newly formed collagen. These cells incorporated 3H-thymidine and 3H-proline intensively, and showed weak acid phosphatase activity, but no features typical for macrophages (microvilli, numerous lysosomes, high activity of acid phosphatase, nonspecific esterases, antigens recognized by monoclonal antibodies ED1 and OX-42, vital staining with trypan blue). Atypical cells also did not differentiate into muscle cells (no expression of desmin and the alpha-sarcomeric form of actin), nor into Schwann cells (no expression of S-100 protein). No point mutation of the neu gene at nucleotide 2007, which is specific for N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea and DMBA-induced malignant rat schwannoma cells, was detected by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses of microscopically selected regions of individual 7 micron cryostat sections. These results support the view that malignant fibrous histiocytoma is derived from immature fibroblasts exhibiting pronounced phenotypic diversity during later stages of carcinogenesis.
Immunohistochemical determination of nuclear antigens by colour image analysis: application for labelling index, estrogen and progesterone receptor status in breast cancer.	The immunohistochemical evaluation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labelling index, estrogen (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) status was carried out on the automated computer-assisted image analysis station BIOCOM 500. Special software has been developed to measure nuclear antigens using the immunoperoxidase method with the Harris hematoxylin counterstain. The analysis was based on the different light adsorption spectra of the chromogen diaminobenzidine and Harris's hematoxylin coloration when exposed to light of differing wavelengths. The results obtained by image analysis were compared to previously validated methods. The thymidine labelling index performed by manual procedures and BrdU incorporation performed by image analysis were comparable (linear correlation coefficient r = 0.76, P < 0.001). Comparison of image analysis and dextran coated charcoal assay for ER and PR content revealed excellent sensitivities and specificities (linear correlation coefficient r = 0.87, P < 0.001 for ER and r = 0.93, P < 0.001 for PR). These data suggest that automated image analysis offers a reliable and reproducible procedure for measuring nuclear antigens.
Role of calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of elongation factor 2 in the proliferation of rat glial cells.	Calmodulin (CaM) is believed to play an important role in the regulation of cellular proliferation. The mechanism of regulation, although unknown, may involve CaM-binding proteins, particularly CaM-dependent protein kinases. Previously, we have shown that CaM-dependent protein kinase III phosphorylates elongation factor 2 (EF-2) in proliferating, C6 glioma cells but not in normal white matter, a tissue rich in nonproliferating glia. To determine whether CaM-dependent phosphorylation of EF-2 is linked, in general, to cellular division, we studied the phosphorylation of EF-2 in proliferating and growth-arrested C6 cells and in proliferating, primary cultures of normal glia. Phosphorylation of EF-2 was not detectable in C6 cells arrested in their growth by serum deprivation. When serum-deprived cells were stimulated to proliferate by the re-addition of serum, the amount of phosphorylated EF-2 correlated with levels of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. Primary cultures of dividing, normal glia, obtained from neonatal rats, also demonstrated phosphorylation of EF-2. Therefore, the CaM-dependent phosphorylation of EF-2 appears to be associated with cellular proliferation in normal and malignant glia in the rat.
CGRP in the serum of endotoxin-treated rats suppresses lymphoproliferation.	Mouse mesenteric lymph node cells were incubated with concanavalin A (Con A) with or without the rat form of calcitonin gene-related peptide (rCGRP) (0.1 fM-1 microM) +/- human (h)CGRP8-37 (1 microM) for 48 h. DNA synthesis was assessed by [3H]thymidine incorporation. Con A-stimulated DNA synthesis was suppressed by 13, 20, and 30% at 10 fM, 1 pM, and 100 pM of rCGRP, respectively. hCGRP8-37 (1 microM), a selective blocker of CGRP1 receptor, completely inhibited the suppression of DNA synthesis by rCGRP (10 fM-100 pM). rCGRP caused concentration-dependent elevations of cAMP levels, which were potentiated by pretreatment with 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (0.3 mM, 10 min), an inhibitor of cAMP-phosphodiesterase. hCGRP8-37 (1 microM) significantly inhibited cAMP elevations induced by rCGRP at the lower concentrations, but not at the highest concentrations of rCGRP. These data suggest that rCGRP, at circulating levels (1-10 pM), appears to directly interact with receptors on mouse mesenteric lymph node cells that are coupled to cAMP generation, ultimately inhibiting lymphocyte proliferation. To test the involvement of CGRP in suppression of lymphocyte proliferation by serum from endotoxin-treated rats, mouse mesenteric lymph node cells were stimulated with Con A with or without dilutions of endotoxin treated rat serum. At a 1:20 dilution, DNA synthesis was suppressed 30%, at a 1:40 dilution, DNA synthesis was suppressed by 34%, and at a 1:80 dilution, DNA synthesis was suppressed 25%. At all serum dilutions, coincubation with hCGRP8-37 (1 microM) significantly inhibited the suppressive effect of the endotoxin treated rat serum. These data suggest that the immunosuppression observed during endotoxin shock may be due, at least in part, to CGRP in serum.
The role of catecholamines in muscular growth.	This paper reports on an experiment concerning the involvement of catecholamines in the biosynthesis of nucleic acids and proteins at muscular levels, using various types of skeletal muscles (psoas, diaphragm, soleus) and heart muscles from male Wistar rats treated with adrenalin. Assessment of the biosynthetic processes was made by the uptake level of 3H thymidine, 3H uridine, and 3H triptophan in the muscles. The experiment showed the followings: a) nucleic acids and protein synthesis stayed unchanged in the psoas; b) adrenalin stimulated the uptake of the radioactive precursors in the diaphragm and soleus, and c) the biosynthetic processes were inhibited in the myocardium by adrenalin administration. Though adrenalin is known to stimulate proteic synthesis in the skeletal muscle, our study showed that this process occurs only in certain types of muscles (with slow contraction). Inhibition of proteic synthesis in the myocardium in the presence of adrenalin might be one of the cellular mechanisms involved in cardiac failure.
Triflavin, an Arg-Gly-Asp-containing peptide, inhibits human cervical carcinoma (HeLa) cell-substratum adhesion through an RGD-dependent mechanism.	Triflavin, a 7.5-kDa cysteine-rich polypeptide purified from Trimeresurus flavoviridis snake venom, belongs to a family of RGD-containing peptides, termed disintegrins, that have been isolated from the venoms of various vipers and shown to be potent inhibitors of platelet aggregation. The interaction of tumor cells with extracellular matrices such as fibronectin, vitronectin, and collagen has been shown to be mediated through a family of cell surface receptors that specifically recognize an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) sequence within each adhesive protein. In this study, we show that triflavin dose-dependently inhibited adhesion of human cervical carcinoma (HeLa) cells to extracellular matrices (ECMs; i.e., fibronectin, fibrinogen, and vitronectin). On the other hand, triflavin exerted a limited inhibitory effect on cell adhesion to laminin and collagen (type I and IV). On a molar basis, triflavin is approximately 800 times more potent than Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser (GRGDS) at inhibiting cell adhesion. When immobilized on plate, triflavin significantly promoted HeLa cell adhesion, and this attachment was inhibited by GRGDS. Furthermore, FITC-conjugated triflavin bound to cells in a saturable manner and its binding was inhibited by GRGDS. In addition, triflavin did not affect [3H]thymidine uptake of HeLa cells during a 3-day incubation. These results suggest that triflavin probably binds to integrin receptors expressed on HeLa cell surface via its RGD sequence within its molecule, thereby inhibiting the adhesion of extracellular matrices to HeLa cells.
In vitro neuronal production and differentiation by precursor cells derived from the adult human forebrain.	It has traditionally been held that the adult brain is incapable of significant self-repair, due in part to its inability to generate new neurons. Nevertheless, rodents and birds have been found to harbor neural precursor cells in adulthood. We asked whether the adult human brain might retain such precursors, by culturing samples of temporal lobe under conditions permissive for neuronal differentiation, while exposed to 3H-thymidine. Adult human temporal lobe cultures, derived from cortex, subcortex, and periventricular subependymal zone (SZ), were incubated for 7-28 d, stained for neuronal and glial antigens, and autoradiographed. Neuron-like cells were found in explant outgrowths and monolayer dissociates of SZ and periventricular white matter, but not cortex; they expressed neuronal antigens including MAP-2, MAP-5, NF, and N-CAM, and were GFAP-. Neurons responded to K+ depolarization with rapid and reversible increases in intracellular Ca2+, with much greater increments than those noted in glia. Although most neurons were not 3H-thymidine labeled, a small number of MAP-2+ and MAP-5+/GFAP- cells did incorporate 3H-thymidine, suggesting neuronal production from precursor mitosis. Rare 3H-thymidine+ neurons were also found in cultures of subventricular white matter; in these, GFAP+ astrocytic mitogenesis was common, while O4+ oligodendrocytes, although the predominant cell type, were largely postmitotic. Thus, the adult human forebrain harbors precursor cells that retain the potential for neuronal production and differentiation in vitro.
The mating behaviour of Zygocotyle lunata adults grown in mice.	Zygocotyle lunata adults grown in mice were treated in vitro with 3-H-adenosine to label sperm and then transplanted to the caecum of mice singly or with 6 to 8 unlabelled adults. After 6 to 10 days, worms were recovered, processed for autoradiography, and observed for radioactive sperm in their seminal receptacles. Adults would not incorporate radioactive thymidine into dividing cells. Tyrosine was utilized only by juvenile worms and then not enough to label germinal cells for mating studies. Four of 13 (31%) worms transplanted singly self-inseminated, whereas 9 of 10 (90%) labelled worms in multiple infections self-inseminated. When in groups, the labelled worms cross-inseminated with 14 of 43 (33%) unlabelled worms. This mating pattern was unrestricted in that both self- and cross-insemination took place in multiple infections, much like the mating pattern in another paramphistomatid, Megalodiscus temperatus, but unlike the restrictive pattern shown by three species of eyeflukes.
Epidermla cell kinetics in hairless mice after bleomycin. I. Perturbations after different single doses.	Three different doses of bleomycin (BLM) (2,1, and 0.01 mg/animal) were injected ip into groups of hairless mice. Cell kinetic alterations in the basal layer of the epidermis were studied up to 10 days after BLM administration. The two highest doses of BLM affected the epidermal cell kinetics in a similar way but with different time courses. Only a moderate depression of the labeling index was observed during the first 24 hours. The results indicate that cells affected by BLM in the middle of the G1 phase are arrested in their subsequent S phase, and that thereafter an increase in the rate of DNA synthesis may occur in the arrested cells without increasing the number of cells in S phase. The percentage of cell accumulated in S and G2 phases as determined by flow cytofluorometry never exceeded 130% of control values with any of the doses. Phase durations were determined from percentage of labeled mitoses curves after the highest dose of BLM and were not significantly different from normal values, indicating that the accumulated cels are probably out of cycle and unable to proliferate again. Calculations based on cell counts and mitotic rate showed that the cells had a prolonged lifespan. No block and subsequent release of cells specifically caused by BLM were observed. BLM has a complex effect on the epidermis, and therefore does not seem to be a promising agent for cell synchronization as a basis for combination chemotherapy in vivo.
Hyperproliferation of aortic smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts from young SHR rats is not shared by endothelial cells.	1. To study the hypertensive genotypic influence on growth kinetics of the three aortic wall cell types. 2. Using young spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats weighing 160-180 g, we compared the proliferative properties of endothelial cells (EC), smooth muscle cells (SMC) and fibroblasts that were isolated from the thoracic aorta of each strain and cultured. Growth-arrested cells were exposed to P < -thymidine after stimulation with 150 micrograms/mL endothelial cell growth supplement. Proliferation assays were performed by cell seeding on decellularized aortic explants and cell counting 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 days after seeding. The influence of SMC from SHR on the growth kinetics of EC was evaluated by co-cultures in transwell systems. 3. After stimulation, SMC from SHR exhibited a greater P < -thymidine incorporation rate than those from WKY rats (ratios over controls: 3.90 +/- 0.48 [7] vs 1.85 +/- 0.25 [7] respectively, P < 0.05). This was also true for adventitial SHR fibroblasts: (13.1 +/- 0.6 [6] vs 9.9 +/- 1.0 [6] WKY P < 0.05). On the contrary, there was no difference in the P < -thymidine incorporation rates between EC of each strain, regardless of the passage and the time considered. Cell proliferation on matrix explants confirmed the hyperproliferation of SMC and fibroblasts from SHR, while EC of each strain proliferated equally. Smooth muscle cells from SHR did not influence the growth kinetics of EC in co-culture and vice versa. 4. The changes in growth patterns of aortic cells isolated from young prehypertensive SHR seem to be restricted to SMC and fibroblasts.
Changes of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA and thymidine kinase activity in rat thyroid lobes, following their exposure to neuropeptide Y.	The effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA of rat thyroid lobes in a 4 h incubation, and on the activity of thymidine kinase (TK) in the homogenates of thyroid lobes in vitro, as well as the influence of thyrotropin (TSH), applied alone or together with NPY, were investigated. The effects of NPY were dependent on the concentration used. Neuropeptide Y, in the lowest and the highest concentrations, decreased both the incorporation of 3H-thymidine to DNA and TK activity, and when used in intermediate concentrations NPY did not significantly affect the processes examined. Thyrotropin decreased TK activity and revealed a tendency towards lowering 3H-thymidine uptake, the latter effect being not statistically significant. NPY (10(-10) M) used together with TSH, produced an increase of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA, when compared with controls and the TSH-exposed group. Following the joint exposure to NPY and TSH, TK activity declined.
Diltiazem inhibits DNA synthesis and Ca2+ uptake induced by insulin, IGF-I, and PDGF in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) has been shown to play a key role in the atherosclerotic lesions. It has been demonstrated that serum-derived peptidic growth factors, such as insulin, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), or epidermal growth factor (EGF), provide mitogenic signals in VSMC and that the interplay of Ca2+ and other messengers is necessary for triggering proliferation. Since Ca2+ channel blockers act on the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel to inhibit Ca2+ influx, it is conceivable that they affect the proliferative action of growth factors. In this study we have evaluated the effects of diltiazem, a 1,5-benzothiazepine-derived Ca2+ channel blocker, on [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA stimulated by insulin, insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I), or PDGF in cultured VSMC from rat aorta. We have also investigated the effects of insulin, IGF-I, and PDGF on Ca2+ uptake in VSMC. After exposure to insulin (10(-10) to 8 x 10(-6) M) or IGF-I (10(-10) to 10(-7) M) for 48 hours, VSMC incorporated [3H]thymidine to 200-280% of maximum (with insulin or IGF-I alone) compared to control. The effect of IGF-I was approximately 10-100 times more potent than that of insulin. PDGF (0.5-15 ng/ml) also induced an increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA of VSMC. Additivity is observed between PDGF with insulin or IGF-I, but not between insulin and IGF-I. Sixty minute treatment with insulin (5 x 10(-8) to 10(-6) M), IGF-I (10(-8) to 10(-6) M), or PDGF (1.0-15.0 ng/ml) increased the unidirectional 45Ca2+ uptake during a 5 minute period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Synthesis and biological evaluation of phosphate triester alkyl lysophospholipids (ALPs) as novel potential anti-neoplastic agents.	Phosphate triester derivatives of the anti-neoplastic alkyl lysophospholipids (ALP) have been prepared as novel potential therapeutic agents. In particular, simple, symmetrical phosphate triesters have been prepared, using phosphorochloridate chemistry. The compounds have been fully characterized by a range of techniques, and assayed for their inhibition of DNA synthesis by mammalian cells in culture. The compounds are generally inhibitory towards DNA synthesis in the micromolar range. However, the magnitude of the effect varies greatly with the phosphate structure. In particular, there is a clear trend towards decreasing activity with increasing alkyl chain length. Thus, short-chain dialkyl phosphate esters appear more effective than the reference compound hexadecyl phosphatidyl choline.
Involvement of protein kinase C and arachidonate signaling pathways in the alteration of proliferative response of senescent IMR-90 human fibroblasts.	The proliferative response of IMR-90 fibroblasts at low and high population doubling level (PDL) to protein kinase C activation has been investigated to clarify whether the reduced mitogenic responsiveness of senescent cells can be ascribed to an alteration in protein kinase C signal transduction pathway. The results show that the signaling pathway leading to DNA synthesis through protein kinase C activation, appears to be modified in senescent IMR-90 human fibroblasts. High PDL fibroblasts exhibit a different sensitivity to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and dioctanoylglycerol (diC8); high glucose reduced responsiveness to PMA only in these cells. In addition, high PDL fibroblasts are characterized by an increase in diacylglycerol (DAG) cellular mass that could contribute to the different regulatory properties of the signaling pathway. On the other hand, the ability of the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin to strikingly improve the proliferative response of high PDL cells to PMA indicates that an altered overall metabolism of arachidonate may represent a crucial step in the reduced mitogenic response involving protein kinase C activation.
Zidovudine induces the expression of cellular resistance affecting its antiviral activity.	We have previously shown that multidrug-resistant cells expressing the multidrug transporter P-glycoprotein are less sensitive to the antiviral activity of AZT. Subsequently, we addressed the question whether AZT itself is able to induce cellular resistance to the drug. Indeed, CEM cells propagated in the presence of increasing concentrations of AZT become resistant to the antigrowth and antiviral activity of AZT but do not express detectable level of P-glycoprotein. Sensitivity of these cells to other compounds, such as vinblastine, vincristine, ddI, and ddC remained unchanged, indicating that, in contrast to P-glycoprotein-positive cells, AZT-induced resistance is specific for AZT. Interestingly, in AZT-induced resistant cells the intracellular accumulation of AZT and exogenous deoxythymidine, as well as thymidine kinase activity, are significantly reduced when compared with the parental cell line. Our findings show that AZT itself may directly induce the expression of cellular mechanisms leading to the acquisition of specific cellular resistance that can affect its antiviral activity.
Analogues of the thrombin receptor tethered-ligand enhance mesangial cell proliferation.	Thrombin stimulates cytosolic calcium mobilization and tritiated thymidine incorporation in rat glomerular mesangial cells. This effect may be mediated by a thrombin receptor similar to the receptor found in human platelets. In order to test this possibility, a series of analogues of the thrombin receptor peptide, SFLL-RNPNDKYEPF, was evaluated for their effects on mesangial cells. Analogues of the thrombin receptor peptide containing five, six, seven and 14 amino acids were as efficacious as thrombin with respect to calcium mobilization and thymidine incorporation, although they were significantly less potent. The dissimilarity in potency between thrombin and the thrombin receptor peptides is consistent with the kinetics of the proposed mechanism of action of the enzyme, since the cleavage by thrombin of its receptor results in a tethered ligand which is at a relatively high concentration compared to the free peptides in solution. Those thrombin receptor peptide analogues which showed decreased activity in platelets were tested in mesangial cells. Removal of serine at position one, N-acetylation, or replacement of the phenylalanine at position two with alanine resulted in analogues which were inactive in stimulating mesangial cell proliferation or calcium mobilization. In addition, those analogues which had no stimulatory effects in mesangial cells were not antagonists of SFLLRN-mediated calcium mobilization and thymidine incorporation in mesangial cells.
Steroidogenic and morphogenic characteristics of human peritubular cells in culture.	We have explored the morphogenic and functional characteristics of human peritubular cells originating from seminiferous tubule (ST) fragments isolated from the testes of two prepubertal patients with the androgen insensitivity syndrome. These ST were cultured in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium-Ham's F-12 supplemented with antibiotics, transferrin, hydrocortisone, vitamin E, and 3% fetal bovine serum. A centrifugal growth of elongated fibroblast-like cells peripheral to the ST explants was observed. Muscle-specific actin and 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase were evident in the peritubular area and in the elongated cells growing from the tubules. Histochemistry was negative in the tubules themselves, revealing the mixed nature of these cultures. The ST fragments were lost after subculturing, leaving a homogeneous monolayer of fibroblast-like cells. The steroidogenic potential of these cells was demonstrated by the secretion of testosterone (T) to the culture medium. T secretion was stimulated by hCG in a time-dependent fashion (patient 1: Day 11, 84% and Day 15, 200%; patient 2: Day 8, 73% and Day 11, 32% over basal). FSH also stimulated T secretion (patient 1: Day 5, 136% and Day 8, 89%; patient 2: Day 8, 117% and Day 11, 129% over basal). Furthermore, T secretion by these cultures was 100% higher than that observed in mesenchymal cells obtained from the testicular intertubular space in the same patient. Spontaneous T secretion and hormone responses declined progressively to cease by 25 days in culture. These results suggested the involvement of Sertoli cell (SC)-secreted factor(s) in the regulation of T secretion by peritubular cells. In order to further explore possible paracrine interactions between peritubular and Sertoli cells, we carried out heterologous cocultures with rat SC. After 72 h a striking redistribution of both cell types was observed with the formation of cord-like structures. Ultrastructural examination of these cords showed the formation of a basement membrane between epithelial (Sertoli) and mesenchymal cells of peritubular origin. No resumption of T secretion was observed, but an increase in androgen-binding protein (ABP) production by rat SC under basal (37%) and FSH-stimulated (52%) conditions was evident. Our results show that in the human peritubular compartment, cells exist that can alternatively express steroidogenic functions, associate with SC in a specific mesenchymal-epithelial interaction, and exert regulatory influences on ABP secretion by SC. In addition they indicate that communicating events in the testis are preserved throughout evolution.
Stimulation by extracellular ATP and UTP of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade and proliferation of rat renal mesangial cells.	1. Extracellular ATP and UTP have been reported to activate a nucleotide receptor that mediates phosphoinositide and phosphatidylcholine hydrolysis by phospholipases C and D, respectively. Here we report that ATP and UTP potently stimulate mesangial cell proliferation. 2. Both nucleotides stimulate phosphorylation and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase and a biphasic phosphorylation of the up-stream mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase. 3. When added at 100 microM, ATP gamma S, UTP and ATP were the most potent activators of mitogen-activated protein kinase. beta gamma-imido-ATP was somewhat less active and ADP and 2-methylthio-ATP caused a weak induction of enzyme activity. Activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase by both ATP and UTP is dose-dependently attenuated by the P2-receptor antagonist, suramin. 4. The protein kinase C activator 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, but not the biologically inactive 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, increased mitogen-activated protein kinase activity in mesangial cells, suggesting that protein kinase C may mediate nucleotide-induced stimulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase. 5. Down-regulation of protein kinase C -alpha and -delta isoenzymes by 4 h or 8 h treatment with phorbol ester partially inhibited ATP- and UTP-triggered mitogen-activated protein kinase activation. Moreover, a 24 h treatment of mesangial cells with phorbol ester, a regimen that also causes depletion of protein kinase C-epsilon did not further reduce the level of mitogen-activated protein kinase stimulation. 6. The specific protein kinase C inhibitor, CGP 41251, which displayed a selectivity for the Ca2+-dependent isoenzymes, as compared to the Ca2+-independent isoenzymes did not inhibit nucleotide stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation, thus implicating the involvement of a Ca2+-independent protein kinase C isoform.7. In summary, these results suggest that ATP and UTP trigger the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling cascade in mesangial cells and this may be responsible for the potent mitogenic activity of both nucleotides.
Modifications of the dermis during scale regeneration in the lizard tail.	During scale morphogenesis in the regenerating tail of lizards (Anolis and Lampropholis) the structure of the dermis undergoes changes in relation to the ingrowth of epidermal papillae to form the new scales. Cell proliferation in the dermis, as revealed by the uptake of 3H-thymidine, is high in the prescaling region of the regenerating tail but lower than the proliferation in the epidermis. Under the epidermis of the scaling region dermal cell proliferation rapidly drops down under the distal (apical) and proximal (caudal) sides of the infolding epidermal papillae. Dermal fibroblasts take up 3H-proline in high amounts, especially in the forming deep dermal layer, where many collagen fibrils are laid down forming dense connective. Electron microscopic study revealed that "anchoring filaments" link the basement membrane of the epidermis with the deep dermis, in particular in the sinking hinge region. As a result of the higher proliferation of the epidermis with respect to the dermis (heterochrony) and the presence of dermo-epithelial "anchoring filaments", the superficial laminar epidermis sinks into the dermis to produce new scales. The epidermal downpushing is evidenced by a characteristic distortion of the dermal fibrils under the distal and the proximal sides, and in the hinge region of the forming scales.
Chemical synthesis and biological activity of the EGF-like domain of heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF).	Heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) is a recently discovered member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family. This novel growth factor possesses the EGF-like domain in the carboxyl portion. In order to evaluate the biological function of the EGF-like domain in HB-EGF, human HB-EGF(44-86) corresponding to the EGF-like domain was synthesized by the solid-phase procedure using the Fmoc strategy. It was confirmed by amino acid microsequencing of cysteine-containing fragments derived from thermolytic digestion that the pattern of three disulfide bond pairings in synthetic HB-EGF(44-86) was consistent with that of EGF and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha). The homogeneity of the synthetic peptide was confirmed by analytical RP-HPLC, amino acid analysis and fast atom bombardment mass spectrometer (FAB-MS). Compared with h-EGF, the EGF-like domain of human HB-EGF showed a comparable mitogenic activity in the proliferation of NIH/3T3 fibroblast cells. These results suggest that the EGF-like domain of human HB-EGF may play an important role in mitogenic activity.
Activity of different revertant agents on multidrug resistance: in vitro evaluation of their combination.	The revertant activity of different compounds has been assayed on a multidrug-resistant human breast-cancer cell line (MCF 7/Dx). The calcium-channel blocker nicardipine showed the higher revertant ability when compared to cefoperazone or cyclosporin A at concentrations close to the pharmacological range. Interestingly, nicardipine was able to increase the revertant activities of both cefoperazone and cyclosporin A, but these latter were not able to enhance each other over a plateau. However, a limit of about 70% of growth inhibition of the line cultured in the presence of 60 microM doxorubicin seems to be insuperable at the concentrations employed. The combination of the three drugs brings the concentrations of drugs to the point at which the maximum possible inhibition is reached in the pharmacological range, but the complete reversion of chemoresistance is not reached when the doxorubicin is added at the concentration capable of reducing the cell proliferation by 50%.
Detection of P-glycoprotein in solid tumors by flow cytometry.	P-glycoprotein (P-gp) detection by FCM (flow cytometry) was correlated with P-gp detection by immunohistochemical staining or Western blotting in K562 cell lines variably resistant to doxorubicin (DOX). A strong correlation was noted between the flow cytometric data and the degree of resistance assessed by thymidine incorporation assay (TIA). Of the human carcinomas tested, 37.5% were P-gp positive by flow cytometry. The flow cytometry data correlated strongly with the immunohistochemical staining (p < 0.001). Thirteen of the 15 P-gp positive tumors were resistant to DOX and vincristine (VCR) on TIA. Thus, P-gp detection by FCM correlates strongly with tumor sensitivity to DOX and VCR (p < 0.001).
CD4+ T cells recovered from a mixed immune lymphocyte-tumor cell culture induce thymidine incorporation by naive rat lymphocytes in response to tumor cells.	Spleen cells from tumor-immune rats incorporate thymidine when co-cultured for 4 days with syngeneic cancer cells. Non-adherent cells, recovered from a 7-day mixed culture with cancer cells, had lost their capacity for incorporating thymidine when exposed again to the same tumor cells; however, in these conditions, the non-adherent cells induce thymidine incorporation by fresh naive spleen cells. This response is restricted to tumor lines which originate from the same tumor as the cells used for immunization and is due to memory and/or activated CD45RC- CD4+ T cells. Our results indicate that tumor-specific T cells maintain their capacity to respond to tumor antigens, even after an extended culture time with tumor cells. In another study, in the same conditions, spleen cells from normal or tumor-bearing rats did not evoke significant responses.
Effects of IFN-beta on growth of human prostatic JCA-1 cells.	Addition of IFN-beta resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of growth, a drop in [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA, and a concurrent 69% and 15% increase in the S and G2/M phases, of the human prostatic JCA-1 cells. No correlation existed between the antimitogenicity of IFN and increases in the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase activity. Although IFN elicited a large increase in 2-5A synthetase activity, activation of the 2-5A-dependent RNase L could not be demonstrated in JCA-1 cells rendered permeable to 2-5A, implying that the 2-5A pathway is not involved in the anti-proliferative effects of IFN. Analysis of endogenous proteins phosphorylated in vitro show that some IFN-inducible phosphoproteins were dependent upon the presence of double-stranded DNA.
Effect of cadmium pretreatment on liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy in rats.	Cadmium is a rare element that is nevertheless widely distributed throughout the biosphere and its toxic effects are becoming potentially more serious due to industrialization. Liver regeneration can be considered as a spectacular example of controlled tissue increase. In this study we examined the effect of cadmium pretreatment, administered 24 h before partial hepatectomy, on the liver regenerative process in rats, at different time intervals. The rate of 3H thymidine incorporation into hepatic DNA and the activity of the enzyme thymidine kinase were used as indices of liver proliferative capacity. Thymidine kinase, the rate-determining enzyme of DNA biosynthesis, was suppressed during the first hours following partial hepatectomy in the liver of cadmium pretreated animals. DNA biosynthesis was also strongly decreased in cadmium pretreated animals, by delaying the first peak of liver regeneration, compared with the partially hepatectomized ones. Biochemical parameters, mitotic index and proliferating cell nuclear antigen staining were also coestimated. The above data suggest that cadmium pretreatment suppressed the hepatic regenerative process, probably due to the inhibition of thymidine kinase.
Retrospective assessment of liver cell proliferation via PCNA: a comparison with tritiated thymidine.	Cell proliferation (S phase response) in archival liver tissues of partially hepatectomized rats was determined via proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) immunohistochemistry. These results were compared with the S phase response assessed previously in the same tissues via tritiated thymidine (Tdr) autoradiography. The effect of prolonged tissue fixation on PCNA immunohistochemistry was compared in two studies: study A, the liver was fixed for a maximum of 7 days and then embedded in paraffin and stored for approximately 18 months, while in study B, the liver was fixed in formalin for 7 years and then embedded in paraffin and stored for approximately 18 months until sectioning and immunostaining. PCNA immunostaining was successful in the liver sections of both studies, irrespective of the length of formalin fixation. Furthermore, the S phase labeling indices (LI) determined via PCNA and Tdr were comparable, although not identical, in the two studies. Therefore, use of PCNA immunohistochemistry should allow retrospective staining of rodent tissues for the assessment of cell proliferative activity in formalin-fixed organs from previously conducted toxicity and carcinogenicity studies.
Vitamin E, glutathione S-transferase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activities in cultured hepatocytes of rats treated with carcinogens.	1. The effects of alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol on glutathione S-transferase (GST) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) activities in cultured hepatocytes prepared from rats treated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) were investigated. 2. Both the alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol treated hepatocytes showed significantly higher (P < 0.05) GST activities than untreated hepatocytes prepared from the carcinogen treated rats in the first 3 days of culture. Treatment with alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol generally resulted in a tendency to increase the GST activities above that in the untreated hepatocytes. 3. Treatment with high doses (125-250 microM) of alpha-tocopherol and low doses (12.5-25 microM) of gamma-tocotrienol generally resulted in a significant reduction in gamma-GT activities at 1-3 days. gamma-GT activities are reduced as the dose of alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol are increased.
Comparison of proliferating cell nuclear antigen to tritiated thymidine as a marker of proliferating hepatocytes in rats.	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), an endogenous nuclear protein, has recently been used to identify replicating cells. PCNA was compared to tritiated thymidine ([3H]-TdR), a reliable and accurate exogenous labeling agent, to ascertain if PCNA gives comparable results for quantitative cell proliferation. Male F344 rats were treated with a single dose of 500 mg/kg 4-acetylaminofluorene (4-AAF), a known liver mitogen. Rats (n = 5) were euthanized and necropsied at 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, 96, or 192 hr after treatment. Two hours before necropsy, rats were pulsed-dosed with [3H]-TdR (2 mCi/kg body weight). Livers were sectioned, autoradiography performed, and labeling indexes (LI), a measurement of the percentage of S-phase hepatocytes, determined. One and a half years after the completion of this study, the archival paraffin blocks of the liver tissue were sectioned and stained for PCNA by an immunohistochemical procedure. Immunocytochemical staining patterns of proliferating cell nuclear antigen antigen expression permitted the recognition of G1, S, G2, M, and quiescent cells. PCNA LI, generated by scoring only cells exhibiting S-phase staining patterns, was compared to the pulse [3H]-TdR LI for each animal. Similar periportal staining patterns of S-phase nuclei were detected by both markers. The [3H]-TdR LI and the PCNA LI exhibited a peak at 24 hr of approximately the same magnitude. However, while the [3H]-TdR LI had returned to near baseline at the 48-hr time point, the PCNA LI remained elevated until the 96-hr time point. This sustained elevation of the PCNA index cannot be explained at this time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of monensin on DNA synthesis in cultured human thyroid cells.	Monensin is a carboxylic ionophore which perturbs the structure and function of the Golgi apparatus and lysosomes. In the present study, we investigated the functional significance of these organelle in the growth factor-mediated cell proliferation in cultured human thyroid cells from normal and Graves' disease. DNA synthesis was estimated by [3H]-thymidine uptake and flow cytometric analysis. Monensin inhibited both [3H]-thymidine uptake in a dose-dependent manner and the transition of G1 to S phase determined by flow cytometric analysis. Monensin partially blocked the effect of bovine TSH in normal thyroid cells. [3H]-thymidine uptake was suppressed to 56.7 +/- 37.3% of the control value with bTSH and monensin, but it was still higher than those with monensin alone (21.9 +/- 15.0% of the control). The percentage of cells in the S phase was also increased from 7.64 +/- 1.91% with monensin alone to 11.54 +/- 2.82% with bTSH at t = 24h. Forskolin or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) could not mimic the action of TSH. On the other hand, insulin and EGF most effectively counteracted monensin-induced inhibition of DNA synthesis in Graves' thyroid cells. [3H]-thymidine uptake was not completely inhibited, being 73.5 +/- 24.0% with EGF, 105.0 +/- 25.4% with insulin, and 49.2 +/- 6.6% with monensin alone, respectively. The percentage of cells in the S phase also increased from 8.31 +/- 2.61% with monensin alone to 11.25 +/- 4.27% with EGF and 12.86 +/- 3.12% with insulin. In conclusion, the functional maintenance of the Golgi apparatus and lysosomes is necessary for DNA synthesis in both normal and Graves' thyroid cells, in which bTSH, insulin, and EGF might be differently involved in the regulation of DNA synthesis.
Comparison of biological aspects among ovine luteinizing hormone isoforms with charge heterogeneity.	Ovine luteinizing hormone (oLH), a pituitary hormone with sulfated asparagine-linked oligosaccharides, was examined with regard to how its isoforms having different isoelectric points (pIs) modulate in vivo biological activity. oLH was separated into five fractions by means of an isoelectric focusing (IEF) column, i.e., IEF fr 1 (pI > 10.78), IEF fr 2 (pI 10.78-10.26), IEF fr 3 (pI 10.22-10.07), IEF fr 4 (pI 9.99-9.84), and IEF fr 5 (pI 9.76-9.48). Of these, we studied the three major fractions, IEF fr 2, 3 and 4. The binding of 125I-oLH to rat testis homogenates was inhibited most strongly by IEF fr 4, followed by 2 and 3. The ability to stimulate cyclic AMP release from dispersed rat Leydig cells followed the same sequence. After bolus injections of IEF fractions, the plasma immunoreactive oLH levels of male rabbits were measured. IEF fr 4 and 3 had longer plasma half-lives than 2. As expected, plasma testosterone levels after injections increased with the additive effects of in vitro activity and the rate of clearance from the circulation, i.e., IEF fr 4 > 3 = 2. In vivo renotropic activity, 3H-thymidine incorporation into the renal DNA of hypophysectomized, castrated rats, was found only in IEF fr 4. Our study indicates that an oLH isoform with a lower alkali pI had stronger LH receptor binding and in vitro bioactivity and a longer plasma half-life, resulting in stronger in vivo bioactivity.
Prostaglandin E2 suppresses phytohemagglutinin-induced immune responses of normal human mononuclear cells by decreasing intracellular glutathione generation, but not due to increased DNA strand breaks or apoptosis.	Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) at concentrations more than 1 x 10(-8) M markedly suppressed the cell proliferation and release of soluble molecules of interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R), CD4 (sCD4) and CD8 (sCD8) from phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated normal human mononuclear cells (MNC) in a dose-related manner. To further elucidate the subcellular mechanism of the inhibitory effect of PGE2 on PHA-stimulated MNC, intracellular concentration of glutathione (GSH) in PHA-stimulated MNC was sequentially measured from day 1 to day 3 by enzymic method. Furthermore, the effect of PGE2 on nuclear DNA including DNA strand breaks in alkali treatment and DNA fragmentation (apoptosis) of PHA-stimulated MNC were also measured. We found intracellular GSH levels were significantly decreased in the early stage of lymphocyte activation (day 1), but no evidence of increased DNA strand breaks or apoptotic process appeared in 3-day culture. In addition, butathione sulfoximine (a specific GSH inhibitor) and dibutyryl cyclic AMP also exhibited both proliferation inhibition and GSH-decreasing effects on PHA-stimulated MNC as well as PGE2. These results suggest that the immunosuppressive effect of PGE2 is mediated by the decreased generation of intracellular GSH, but not by the increased DNA strand breaks or apoptotic mechanism in the cells.
The effects of auranofin on activation and interleukin-2 release from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	Auranofin, 30-300 nM causes a concentration-dependent potentiation of phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-induced interleukin-2 (IL-2) release from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in culture. At concentrations of auranofin between 1 and 3 microM, PHA-stimulated IL-2 release was inhibited, and the drug is cytotoxic at these concentrations. At concentrations of auranofin which potentiated PHA-induced IL-2 release, it had no effect on [3H]-thymidine incorporation. Auranofin, 3 to 300 nM caused a concentration-dependent increase in the population of peripheral blood mononuclear cells bearing the IL-2 receptor (Tac positive cells). Auranofin, 300 nM caused an increase of approximately 100% in the glutathione level within the resting cells, and also increased the glutathione level in PHA-stimulated cells. We conclude that auranofin acts early in the cell cycle, selectively to increase the release of IL-2 and the expression of Tac. The action of auranofin on cellular glutathione levels may alter the redox state of the cell which is known to be important in the control of transcription factor activation.
Inhibition of fibroblast hyaluronic acid production by suramin.	Hyaluronic acid (HA) is an extracellular matrix glycosaminoglycan localized in the stroma of solid tumors, where it facilitates cell movement and thus tumor invasion and metastasis. This localization of HA is due to its synthesis by stromal fibroblasts in response to paracrine factors produced by the tumor. Such tumor-stromal interactions have been shown to be crucial to the development and progression of prostate cancer. Suramin is an effective antitumor agent in hormone-refractory prostate cancer, but its mechanism(s) of action is not well understood. However, the properties of suramin as an agent which disrupts growth factor action, and the importance of tumor-stroma interactions in prostate tumor development and in HA synthesis led us to study the effect of suramin on HA synthesis. Suramin inhibited HA synthesis by calf serum-stimulated Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts at clinically relevant concentrations (IC50 = 183 micrograms/mL). Increasing the serum concentration from 10 to 20% did not change the IC50 for HA synthesis, but increased the IC50 for [3H]thymidine incorporation from 206 to 342 micrograms/mL, indicating that the antiproliferative effect of suramin can be dissociated from its effect on HA synthesis. Suramin did not alter the cellular concentrations of the two precursors for HA synthesis (UDP-glucuronic acid and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) at early time points and did not inhibit the HA synthetase activity of isolated membranes at concentrations up to 800 micrograms/mL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Buthionine sulfoximine spares intracellular glutamate: a possible mechanism for cell growth stimulation.	Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), a selective inhibitor of glutathione (GSH) synthesis, has a dual effect on proliferation of human lung carcinoma A549 cells, i.e., at low concentrations it stimulates and at higher concentrations it inhibits A549 cell proliferation. This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that BSO, by inhibiting the synthesis of GSH, spares its constituent amino acids, particularly glutamate, and thereby stimulates cell proliferation. Treatment of A549 cells with BSO significantly increased intracellular glutamate levels, while it decreased cellular GSH levels. To determine whether the increased glutamate level is responsible for the BSO-stimulated cell proliferation, A549 cells were cultured in glutamine-deficient Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium. These cells did not proliferate in this medium unless glutamine (4 mM) was supplemented. When glutamine was replaced by glutamate in the medium the cells were also stimulated to proliferate, although this stimulation was not as effective as that of glutamine. Cysteine and its cellular delivery system L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate did not stimulate cell proliferation even though BSO would also increase cellular cysteine levels. The results obtained suggest that the BSO-increased cellular glutamate level is likely responsible for the BSO growth-stimulating effect.
Cogeneration of neurons with a unique molecular phenotype in layers V and VI of widespread lateral neocortical areas in the rat.	Monoclonal antibody PC3.1 detects a unique subpopulation of neurons located mainly in layer VI and, to a lesser extent, in layer V within the lateral neocortical areas in the rat. In an attempt to characterize these neurons, we determined the time of their generation in selected neocortical areas by a double-labeling experiment combining quantitative long-survival 3H-thymidine autoradiography and immunohistochemistry for the PC3.1 antigen. We found that the vast majority of PC3.1-positive neurons in both layers V and VI were generated concurrently at embryonic day 15 in all areas examined, demonstrating a strict correlation between the molecular identity of neurons and the time of their generation, irrespective of their final positions along the radial and tangential axes. In contrast, PC3.1-negative neurons, which should represent more diverse phenotypic identities, were generated during a more extended period of cortical development and tended to exhibit radial (inside-to-outside) and tangential (ventral-to-dorsal and rostral-to-caudal) neurogenetic gradients. Our findings indicate that laminar and tangential locations of cortical neurons are not established solely by a combination of mechanisms for the inside-out movement of newly generated neurons in each cortical area and for the broad tangential neurogenetic gradients. The results of this study suggest a distinct way of cortical development in which neurons with a common molecular phenotype are generated concurrently and migrate toward their eventual positions, which are not necessarily located in a single lamina. In addition, our results suggest some kind of tangential heterogeneity in the mechanism involved in neocortical histogenesis, supporting the concept of early regional specification within the neocortex.
Prognostic significance of in vitro thymidine uptake in patients with colorectal carcinoma.	In 127 patients with colorectal carcinoma, we measured thymidine uptake by tumor cells cultured in a semisolid medium and compared the influence of various parameters on survival by univariate and multivariate analysis. Fifty-four of the 127 carcinomas (42.5%) incorporated > 1,000 cpm of tritiated thymidine per culture dish and were designated as the high-uptake group, while the other tumors (57.5%, 73/127) were designated as the low-uptake group. There was no significant correlation between high or low thymidine uptake and most of the clinicopathological characteristics of the patients. Patients in the high-uptake had a poor prognosis and a 7-year survival rate of 32.6%, which was significantly different from the rate of 69.3% in the low-uptake group (P < 0.0005). Multivariate analysis showed that thymidine uptake was one of the variables strongly associated with survival in our study population. Thus, it is concluded that thymidine uptake by tumor cells has a high capacity of predicting prognosis, independent of its relationship to other variables. Furthermore, it seems to us that thymidine uptake can help in selecting those patients with colorectal carcinoma who are most likely to benefit from perioperative adjuvant therapy.
Erythropoietin enhances recovery from cisplatin-induced acute renal failure.	Acute renal failure (ARF) is associated with erythropoietin (EPO) deficiency anemia. The present study was designed to determine whether the course of ARF can be altered by preventing EPO deficiency and the associated anemia. Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a single dose of cisplatin (CP), 7 mg/kg intraperitoneally, and randomized into recombinant EPO-treated (EPO), placebo-treated (control), recombinant EPO-treated pair-fed (EPO-PF), and EPO-treated anemic (EPO-anemic) groups. They were then treated with daily injections of recombinant EPO, 100 U/kg, or placebo for 9 days. Animals in the EPO-anemic group received daily phlebotomies gauged to maintain hematocrits equal to those in the control group. Rats in the EPO-PF group were pair fed with the controls. The control and EPO-anemic groups showed a fall, whereas the EPO and EPO-PF groups showed a rise in hematocrit on day 9. Although blood volume on day 9 was significantly greater in the EPO group than in either the EPO-anemic group or the control group, it was comparable in the latter groups. An equally severe reduction in creatinine clearance (CCr) was found in all groups on day 4. However, measurements of CCr and inulin clearance on day 9 revealed a significantly greater functional recovery in the EPO, EPO-PF, and EPO-anemic groups than in the controls. The enhanced functional recovery with EPO administration was accompanied by an increased tubular regeneration and [3H]thymidine incorporation in the cortical tissue. No significant difference was found in either cortical tissue iron content or arterial blood pressure in the study groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin inhibit the production and secretion of endothelin from cultured endothelial cells.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is the most potent endogenous vasoconstrictor yet identified. This peptide plays an important role in the regulation of arterial tone, in part through its interaction with endogenous vasodilator compounds. To understand the interactions of endothelin with the vasoactive prostaglandins (PGs), we determined the effects of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), prostacyclin (PGI2), and thromboxane A2 on ET-1 synthesis and secretion from cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells and on ET-1 action in aortic smooth muscle cells. Both PGE2 and PGI2 (vasodilator prostaglandins) caused an approximately 40% inhibition of basal ET-1 secretion and a 50% inhibition of serum-stimulated ET-1 secretion in a dose-related and time course fashion. In contrast, the vasoconstrictor prostaglandin, thromboxane A2, had no effect on ET-1 secretion. PGE2 and PGI2 similarly inhibited the basal production of new ET-1 protein (translation) by 40-50% and inhibited the basal steady-state mRNA expression of ET-1 in bovine aortic endothelial cells by 60-70%. Both prostaglandins also caused an approximately 55% inhibition of ET-1 transcription, as shown by chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter studies. PGE2 and PGI2 strongly stimulated cGMP generation; both the PG stimulation of cGMP and the inhibition of ET-1 secretion and translation were reversed by LY83583, a general inhibitor of cGMP generation. The PG-induced inhibition of ET-1 secretion and translation was also reversed by KT5823, an inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase, but not by (Rp)-adenosine cyclic 3':5'-monophosphate, an inhibitor of protein kinase A activation. PGE2 and PGI2 also inhibited both basal and ET-1-stimulated DNA synthesis in aortic smooth muscle cells by approximately 45% through a cGMP-dependent mechanism. Therefore, two endogenous PGs, known to be important vasodilators in vivo, significantly inhibit the transcription, translation, secretion, and action of ET-1. We propose that the vasodilator action of the PGs results, in part, from their ability to inhibit the production of this potent vasoconstrictor.
Role of cell density/cell-cell contact, and growth state in expression of differentiated properties by the LLC-PK1 cell.	Populations of the renal epithelial cell line, LLC-PK1, acquire many properties characteristic of the proximal tubular cell at confluence. At confluence cells both enter a nonproliferative state and develop extensive cell-cell contacts. To determine if one or both factors is responsible for acquisition of the differentiated phenotype, growth arrest was initiated in populations of varying densities by two procedures (serum deprivation and thymidine block) and expression of several differentiated properties (Na-hexose symport activity, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity, alkaline phosphatase activity, and villin protein) was examined. Induction of growth arrest resulted in expression of all differentiated properties even in subconfluent populations. The level of expression in a population was proportional to cell density at the initiation of growth arrest; higher density was associated with increased expression. Evidence indicated the existence of some minimal density below which cells could not express detectable levels of differentiated properties in response to induction of growth arrest. The procedure used to initiate growth arrest did not affect this behavior, indicating that initiation of cell growth arrest rather than hormone deprivation was the inducing factor. These results indicate that both cell growth state and cell density independently modulate expression of differentiated properties by the LLC-PK1 cell. These results are incorporated into a model in which cells in the absence of "appropriate" cell-cell contact arrest at a differentiation-incompetent cell cycle point. In the presence of appropriate cell-cell contact (as yet undefined) cells arrest at a distinct differentiation-competent cell cycle point and initiate expression of the differentiated phenotype.
Amadori glucose adducts modulate mesangial cell growth and collagen gene expression.	Diabetic serum contains increased concentrations of glycated proteins, which are preferentially transported into the renal glomerulus. We investigated effects of Amadori glucose adducts in serum proteins, the predominant form in which circulating glycated proteins exist in vivo, on glomerular mesangial cells, where the lesion of diabetic nephropathy originates. [3H]-thymidine incorporation by murine mesangial cells was significantly inhibited when cells were grown in the presence of serum glycated by incubation for four days with 28 mM glucose or when cells were cultured in microtiter plates that had been precoated with glycated serum. This effect was prevented by a monoclonal antibody immunoreactive with Amadori adducts in glycated albumin, and unreactive with other glycated serum proteins or with advanced glycation end (AGE) products. Glycated serum stimulated Type IV collagen gene expression and increased Type IV collagen secretion, an effect also prevented by monoclonal antibodies reactive with Amadori adducts in glycated albumin. The glycation-induced changes in proliferation, collagen synthesis and collagen gene expression were observed in media containing normal glucose concentration and were exaggerated in media containing high glucose concentration. The data indicate that Amadori products of glycated serum proteins induce mesangial cell abnormalities that are highly relevant to the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy, and that these effects are accentuated when glycated serum proteins are presented in a hyperglycemic milieu. The data also suggest that mesangial cells specifically recognize Amadori adducts in glycated albumin.
Interactions between TGF-beta and adrenocorticotropin in growth regulation of human adrenal fetal zone cells.	The factors that regulate growth and function of the human adrenal gland during intrauterine development and thereafter are ill defined. Whereas others have reported that adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) augments the inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) on growth of fetal zone (FZ) cells of the human fetal adrenal, we recently found that ACTH interferes with TGF-beta's inhibition of growth of fetal adrenal neocortex cells. In this study we sought to assess independently the effects of TGF-beta in the absence and presence of ACTH on growth of FZ cells. TGF-beta, in a time- and dose-dependent manner, inhibited growth (i.e., [3H]thymidine incorporation) of FZ cells. ACTH (Cortrosyn), at 90 pM to 90 nM, was found to interfere with the TGF-beta inhibition of FZ growth. ACTH 1-24 and human ACTH 1-39, both from Sigma Chemical, also were found to blunt the response of FZ cells to TGF-beta. Growth inhibition due to TGF-beta action and the reversal by ACTH of TGF-beta effects on FZ cell growth were confirmed by the results of immunohistochemical analyses of 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation into nuclei of FZ cells and by indirect evaluations of cell numbers. Both forskolin (10 microM) and dibutyryl adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (1 mM), but not phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (1 or 100 mM), were able to mimic ACTH actions in blunting the inhibitory effects of TGF-beta on DNA synthesis. We conclude that ACTH, possibly via activation of adenylate cyclase, interferes with, rather than augments, the growth-inhibitory effect of TGF-beta on FZ cell growth.
Comparison of glucose-consumption and thymidine-incorporation endpoints in histocultured human superficial bladder tumors.	Glucose consumption and tritiated thymidine incorporation were monitored for 54 days in histocultured human superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, indicating that long-term histoculture of human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder is feasible. The glucose-consumption rate was relatively similar among the histocultured specimens and depended on the size of the explant in histoculture. Tritiated thymidine incorporation, on the other hand, varied greatly between the histocultured specimens. In addition, [3H]thymidine incorporation varied in single histocultures between cells in the original explant and those invading the gel. From these results, we conclude that the glucose consumption rate in histocultured human superficial bladder tumor is more reliable and sensitive than thymidine incorporation. The glucose-consumption endpoint is simple to measure and nondestructive, allowing multiple measurements on a single culture, unlike the thymidine incorporation endpoint.
Accurate processing and secretion in the baculovirus expression system of an erythroid-cell-stimulating factor consisting of a chimaera of insulin-like growth factor II and an insect insulin-like peptide.	A synthetic gene encoding the signal peptide and the N-terminal sequence of bombyxin, an insect insulin-like peptide, and the 58 amino acids of the C-terminal sequence of human insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II) has been expressed using the baculovirus system. This synthetic chimaera was obtained by amplification of four overlapping oligonucleotides using Taq polymerase and cloning into the transfer vector pBluebac. The construct was integrated by homologous recombination into the Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis genome. Spodoptera frugiperda Sf9 insect cells infected with the recombinant baculovirus secreted an accurately processed peptide consisting of the ten N-terminal amino acids of bombyxin and the 58 C-terminal amino acids of IGF II. The N-terminal glutamine of bombyxin was changed to asparagine to facilitate sequencing of the synthetic peptide. The chimaera was five times more potent than human recombinant IGF II in its capacity to stimulate thymidine incorporation into erythroid cells of fetal bovine liver in a serum-free medium. It stimulated erythroid colony formation in the presence of 2 microunits/ml erythropoietin in cells cultured over a monolayer of stromal cells of fetal liver. Artificial chimaeras as described here may prove useful for the production of insulin, IGF I and other peptides as secreted proteins in insect cells.
Decline of protein kinase C activation in response to growth stimulation during senescence of IMR-90 human diploid fibroblasts.	We have studied the activation of protein kinase C (PKC) during senescence of human IMR-90 fibroblasts by analyzing the phosphorylation of its in vivo substrate MARCKS (myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate). It was found that the extent of TPA-induced phosphorylation of MARCKS was not significantly different between young and old IMR-90 fibroblasts. In contrast, the increase of MARCKS phosphorylation after serum stimulation was 4.5-fold in young fibroblasts as compared to 1.8-fold in old fibroblasts. Analysis of PKC by Western blotting showed that the levels of PKC were not changed during senescence of IMR-90 fibroblasts. However, the generation of diacylglycerol in response to serum stimulation declined in old fibroblasts. These results suggest that the efficiency of signal transduction mediated by diacylglycerol generation and PKC activation during the mitogenic response is age-dependent in human IMR-90 fibroblasts.
Apoptosis in dog thyroid cells.	Apoptosis, a physiological cell death, has been shown to be involved in tissue homeostasis as well as in tissue regression due to hormone deprivation. The cell population slowly turns over, with cell loss compensating mitogenicity. In the absence of thyrotropin, the cell population decreases. The possible involvement of apoptosis in this loss has been studied. We show in this report that deprivation of serum, epidermal growth factor and thyrotropin triggers internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and morphological modifications characteristic of apoptotic cell death in dog thyroid cells in primary culture; cycloheximide treatment has the same effect. This indicates that thyrocytes are endowed with a constitutive apoptosis "program" and that the latter might be involved in the thyroid regression observed in vivo in the absence of full growth stimulation of the gland.
(R,R)-2,2'-[1,2-ethanediylbis[imino(1-methyl-2,1-ethanediyl)]]- bis[5-nitro-1H-benz[de]isoquinoline-1,3-(2H)-dione] dimethanesulfonate (DMP 840), a novel bis-naphthalimide with potent nonselective tumoricidal activity in vitro.	(R,R)-2,2'-[1,2-ethanediylbis[imino(1-methyl-2,1-ethanediyl)]]- bis[5-nitro-1H-benz[de]isoquinoline-1,3-(2H)-dione] dimethanesulfonate (DMP 840), is a bis-naphthalimide anticancer tumoricidal agent currently in phase I clinical trials. DMP 840 exhibits curative activity in human tumor xenografts, where it shows selectivity for human solid tumors over murine leukemias. In contrast to the selectivity found for DMP 840 in vivo, DMP 840 exhibits potent antiproliferative activity in vitro against a variety of human and murine leukemia and solid tumor cell lines in culture, with inhibitory doses that reduce the number of treated cells to one half (IC50) values ranging from 2.3 to 53 nM. DMP 840 was growth inhibitory to three doxorubicin-resistant cell lines with IC50 values also in the nanomolar range. Clonogenic survival experiments showed that DMP 840 was equally cytotoxic to both exponentially growing and quiescent human clone A colon carcinoma cells. A 1-h incubation of DMP 840 (1.22-12 microM) caused 5-log cell kill in KB-3-1 human epidermoid carcinoma, clone A human colon carcinoma, and L1210 murine leukemia cell lines. The rapid cell killing by DMP 840 in clonogenic survival experiments and initial mechanism of action studies was consistent with a DNA-interactive mechanism for DMP 840 cytotoxicity. Mechanism of action studies in L1210 leukemia cells demonstrated that DMP 840 inhibited the incorporation of thymidine and uridine into DNA and RNA with IC50 values of 0.55 and 0.08 microM, respectively. DMP 840 produced DNA single-strand breaks in a dose-dependent manner. Double-strand breaks were not observed with DMP 840 treatment, even at higher concentrations of compound. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and P388 cells resistant to camptothecin and containing a mutant form of topoisomerase I were also used to evaluate whether DMP 840 was cross-resistant with agents active against topoisomerase I. While the CHOR line was 163-fold resistant to camptothecin, the CHOR line was only 1.7-fold resistant to DMP 840. In summary, DMP 840 is a DNA-interactive agent that demonstrates excellent antiproliferative activity in vitro against cultured tumor cells from both human and murine sources. Its mechanism of tumoricidal activity may be novel.
Retinoblastoma protein is rapidly dephosphorylated by elevated cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels in human B-lymphoid cells.	Elevated cyclic AMP levels induce a rapid block in the mid-G1 phase of the cell cycle in B-lymphoid Reh cells, accompanied by a transient block in G2. The retinoblastoma (Rb) gene product has been implicated as a key regulator of eukaryotic cell growth. The Rb protein enforces its growth-suppressive effect in early G1, where it is underphosphorylated and firmly bound in the nucleus. A possible link between the cyclic AMP-mediated growth arrest and regulation of Rb protein phosphorylation was explored by Western blot analysis. We found that both forskolin and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate induced a rapid (within 3 h) dephosphorylation of Rb protein. These data were confirmed by flow-cytometric analysis of isolated nuclei costained with anti-Rb antibodies and propidium iodide. The percentage of cells containing underphosphorylated Rb protein (i.e., G1 nuclei with bound Rb protein) increased from 9 to 87% after 4 h of forskolin treatment. During the first 4 h of forskolin treatment, the cells were transiently blocked in the G2 phase of the cell cycle, and virtually no cells had passed through mitosis. The increased level of dephosphorylated Rb protein at 4 h was therefore not due to an accumulation in early G1 of cells containing underphosphorylated Rb protein. Instead, our data indicated that dephosphorylation of Rb protein occurred in cells that had already passed the point in G1 of Rb protein phosphorylation. Dephosphorylation of Rb protein was prevented by high concentrations of the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid, indicating that activation of a phosphatase is involved in the cyclic AMP-mediated dephosphorylation of Rb protein. We suggest that the dephosphorylation of Rb protein is required for the forskolin-mediated arrest of the Reh cells in mid-G1.
Effect of calcium supplementation on rectal epithelial hyperproliferation in intestinal bypass subjects.	Fatty acids and bile acids are tumor promoters of experimental colon cancer in rats. Calcium can inhibit their effects. After intestinal bypass (IB), fecal bile acid and lipid levels increase markedly. In rats, IB increases colonic cell proliferation and carcinogen-induced colon tumor incidence. Whether fecal bile acids and lipids influence rectal epithelial proliferation in humans is uncertain. This study compared rectal epithelial proliferation in IB subjects and in controls matched for age, sex, and body mass index and investigated the effects of calcium carbonate supplementation (2400 or 3600 mg Ca2+/day for 12 weeks) on proliferation indices in IB subjects.
Full-thickness skin grafts from flaky skin mice to nude mice: maintenance of the psoriasiform phenotype.	Flaky skin (fsn) is an autosomal recessive mouse mutation with papulosquamous disease features similar to human psoriasis. In fsn/fsn skin, one sees marked acanthosis and hyperkeratosis with focal parakeratosis, subcorneal pustules, dermal capillary dilation, and a marked diffuse dermal infiltration of mixed inflammatory cells, predominantly lymphocytes. To determine if these pathologic features are a characteristic of the skin or a chronic autoimmune attack, we placed full-thickness skin grafts from affected homozygous (fsn/fsn) and normal littermate control (+/?) mice on the dorsal skin of genetically athymic nude (nu/nu) mice. After 10 weeks of observation, the grafts maintained the histologic phenotype of the donor animal. In the fsn/fsn grafts, there was persistence of both epidermal proliferation and dermal inflammation, characteristics of the mutation. The fsn/fsn phenotype was also confirmed by immunohistochemical evaluation for specific mouse keratinocyte marker expression. Based on tritiated thymidine uptake, we found DNA synthesis rates elevated threefold or more in fsn/fsn epidermis compared to littermate control mouse skin. Elevated rates of DNA synthesis remained a feature of the fsn/fsn grafts but not that of littermate control skin grafts. This study demonstrates that the psoriasiform phenotype of this mouse mutation can persist independent of the host thymic-derived immune system.
Morphological changes and cellular proliferation in mouse colon during fetal and postnatal development.	To document regional structural and cellular proliferation changes in the developing mouse colon, tissues from fetal, suckling, and weanling mice were analyzed by light microscopy (LM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), [3H]-thymidine incorporation studies, and radioautography. The proximal and distal colon were studied independently at all ages. At 17-18 days of gestation, the mouse proximal colonic mucosa was projected into high and low longitudinal folds disposed in a V-shaped pattern. From birth up to 9 days, the mucosal folds observed by SEM can easily be misinterpreted as being a succession of high and low villus-like structures at LM level. TEM study confirmed the presence of highly specialized absorptive cells in the upper halves of the mucosal folds during this period. No recognizable crypts were noted at birth. Instead, LM and radioautography showed the presence of cell aggregates developing at the base of the epithelium at all levels of the mucosal folds. These cell aggregates evolved into rudimentary crypts giving fully differentiated crypts by day 16 with radiolabeled cells located in the midcrypt portion. As opposed to the proximal segment, a flat mucosa interspersed with well defined short crypts at birth was observed in the distal colon. During the following days, crypts further developed and by 16 days, the radiolabeled epithelial cells were still exclusively located at the base of the crypt. TEM observations illustrated that specialized cells as those found in the proximal segment did not differentiate in this segment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Homodimeric murine interleukin-3 agonists indicate that ligand dimerization is important for high-affinity receptor complex formation.	Homodimeric murine interleukin 3 (mIL-3) agonists were generated by intermolecular cystine-bonding. Steady-state binding assays and association kinetics performed at 4 degrees C using these agonists revealed specific binding to both the high- and low-affinity receptor. DSS-mediated crosslinking studies performed at 4 degrees C with agonist concentrations compatible with high-affinity receptor complex formation allowed to detect protein complexes of the alpha chain, the beta chain(s) and the high-affinity receptor complex migrating with apparent molecular weights of 90 kDa, 140 kDa, and above 180 kDa, respectively. In contrast, monomeric mIL-3 was crosslinked to the alpha chain receptor only unless high concentrations were used. Binding studies performed at 4 degrees C revealed a positive cooperative interaction of monomeric mIL-3 with the low-affinity receptor. Proliferation studies and association kinetics performed at 37 degrees C showed that under physiological conditions these agonists were at least 2- to 3-fold more potent than monomeric mIL-3. We therefore propose that dimerization of mIL-3 may be involved in high-affinity receptor complex formation.
Regulated expression of Wnt family members during proliferation of C57mg mammary cells.	At least six members of the Wnt gene family are expressed in the murine mammary gland during growth and differentiation, whereas several other Wnt family members participate in malignant transformation of this tissue. We have used the C57mg mammary cell line, which naturally expresses the Wnt-4 and Wnt-5a genes, to examine Wnt gene expression during proliferation. The data show that the growth factors basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor beta 1, and epidermal growth factor are mitogenic for C57mg cells, and partial transformation by Wnt-1 can substitute for the proliferative signal provided by these factors. Several different mitogenic stimuli selectively down-modulate the levels of endogenous Wnt-4 and Wnt-5a RNA in C57mg cells. Partial transformation by either Wnt-1 or Wnt-2 is accompanied by a dramatic decrease in Wnt-4 RNA and a small decrease in Wnt-5a RNA. Mitogenic stimulation by basic fibroblast growth factor or partial transformation by Int-2, a fibroblast growth factor family member, also leads to a selective decrease in the levels of endogenous Wnt RNA. No expression of the Wnt-4 and Wnt-5a genes is detectable in C57mg cells that are fully transformed by the activated tyrosine kinase oncogene Neu. In contrast, overexpression of Wnt-5a in C57mg cells does not lead to a transformed phenotype and is not accompanied by a decrease in endogenous Wnt-4 RNA levels. Overexpression of Wnt-5a does lead to a small decrease in endogenous Wnt-5a levels, perhaps through autoregulation. These data indicate that Wnt-4 and Wnt-5a expression in mammary cells is responsive to growth regulatory signals, and the down-modulation of expression of either or both genes correlates with cell proliferation. The inverse correlation between expression of the endogenous Wnt genes and cell proliferation suggests that Wnt-4 and Wnt-5a may participate in restricting the proliferation of C57mg cells.
Retinoic acid differentially affects platelet-derived growth factor and epidermal growth factor-regulated cell growth of mouse osteoblast-like cells.	Retinoic acid (RA) plays an important role in the control of cell growth and differentiation. To elucidate the effects of RA for osteoblasts, we examined here the responsiveness of normal osteoblast-like MC3T3-E1 cells treated with RA for two growth factors, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF). The transcripts of alpha- and gamma-RA receptors were constitutively expressed in MC3T3-E1 cells, and the expression of the beta-RA receptor mRNA was induced by RA. The PDGF-induced mitogenicity of MC3T3-E1 cells was significantly enhanced by 1 microM RA pretreatment, whereas the EGF-induced mitogenicity was suppressed by the same treatment. The expression of both alpha- and beta-PDGF receptor gene products detected by RNA blot and immunoblot analyses was significantly increased by RA. The increased expression of PDGF receptors was accompanied by the augmentation of PDGF-induced receptor autophosphorylation following the enhancement of inositol phosphate hydrolysis. In contrast, EGF-induced receptor autophosphorylation was suppressed in RA-treated cells, whereas the expression level of EGF receptor was not affected. These findings demonstrate that RA could control the cell growth of osteoblast-like MC3T3-E1 cells not only by regulating the gene expression of growth factor receptors, but also by modulating the ligand-induced receptor autophosphorylation.
Progressive dysfunction of twitcher Schwann cells is evaluated better in vitro than in vivo.	The twitcher mutant (twi/twi) is an authentic murine model of globoid cell leukodystrophy, a genetic demyelinating disorder, where normally formed myelin degenerates due to a metabolic perturbation of myelin forming cells. We investigated the rate of Schwann cell proliferation in vivo and in vitro using thymidine autoradiography to evaluate cellular function of homozygous twitcher (twi/twi), and heterozygous (+/twi) and normal littermate (+/+) mice. At day 10 prior to onset of demyelination in twi/twi, the thymidine uptake by Schwann cells from sciatic nerves was similar regardless of genotype. In +/twi or +/+, the rate of proliferation in sciatic nerves sharply declined after day 10 and remained low at day 20 and thereafter. In contrast, in twi/twi nerve, in which myelin degeneration became progressively severe after day 10, Schwann cell proliferation persisted. Reflecting the in vivo status of Schwann cells as described by Clemence et al., thymidine uptake in vitro by Schwann cells from older twi/twi mice was transiently higher for the first 24 h in culture. When the rate of proliferation was determined for Schwann cells 1 to 8 days in vitro (DIV), twi/twi Schwann cells proliferated generally less than that of +/twi or +/+ and the rate progressively declined with age. The results of this study suggest that progressive dysfunction of twi/twi Schwann cells is better demonstrated in vitro than in vivo. We suggest that in vitro kinetic studies would provide useful methodology to evaluate the Schwann cell function in genetic or hereditary neuropathies in humans, in which intrinsic Schwann cell dysfunction is suspected as cause of demyelination and contribute to the understanding of their pathogenesis.
Partial characterization of the proliferative activity for fetal lung epithelial cells produced by silica-exposed alveolar macrophages.	The proliferation of lung epithelial cells is a prominent feature of lung tissue response following silica-induced lung injury and alveolar macrophages are recognized as a major contributing cell to the lung inflammatory processes. In previous studies, a growth-promoting activity for fetal rat lung epithelial cells was observed in silicotic alveolar fluids and in supernatants from in vitro and in vivo silica-exposed alveolar macrophages. In the present work, the biological and physicochemical properties of the macrophage-derived growth-promoting activity for fetal lung epithelial cells were explored. Four peaks of growth-promoting activity for lung epithelial cells ranging from 32 to 7 kDa were found in both in vitro and in vivo silica-exposed macrophage supernatants. The investigations were coupled with biochemical treatments of the mitogenic peaks and blocking antibodies or antisera were used to specify further the nature of the proliferative activities. Among the established growth factors, alveolar macrophage-derived growth fractions had characteristics consistent with platelet-derived growth factor-, insulin-like growth factor 1-, and fibroblast growth factor-like molecules. The cytokine production following in vitro exposure, which reflects very early events in the pathogenesis of silicosis, was more strongly related to the high-molecular-weight PDGF-like molecules, whereas the cytokine production following in vivo exposure, which reflects later events in the pathogenesis of silicosis, was more influenced by intermediate-molecular-weight FGF- and IGF-like molecules.
Senescence-like growth arrest induced by hydrogen peroxide in human diploid fibroblast F65 cells.	Human diploid fibroblast cells lose replicative potential after a certain number of population doublings. We use this experimental system to investigate the role of oxidative damage in cellular aging. Treating cells with H2O2 at < 300 microM did not affect the viability of the majority of cells when judged by morphology, trypan blue exclusion, and protein synthesis. However, the treatment caused a dose-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis. After a 2-hr treatment with 200 microM H2O2, the cells failed to respond to a stimulus of serum, platelet-derived growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, or epidermal growth factor by synthesizing DNA, and the loss of response could not be recovered by 4 days. Subcultivation showed that, as in senescent cells, division of the treated cells was inhibited. The life-time cumulative growth curve showed that the loss of replication due to H2O2 treatment was cumulative and irreversible. The H2O2 treatment decreased the number of the population doublings in the rest of the life span by 35.3 +/- 10.3%. Enzymatic assays indicated that, like the cells in their senescent state, the treated cells were less able to activate ornithine decarboxylase and thymidine kinase. Furthermore, subcultivation after the H2O2 treatment showed that the cells developed the morphology of senescent cells. In conclusion, sublethal treatment of H2O2 "stunned" F65 cells and caused the cells to enter a state resembling senescence.
Further characterization of retinoblastoma gene-mediated cell growth and tumor suppression in human cancer cells.	We have transfected the osteosarcoma cell line Saos2 and the bladder carcinoma cell line 5637 with additional retinoblastoma (RB) expression plasmids. The RB-reconstituted Saos2 and 5637 cells showed only slightly lower ratios of cells undergoing DNA synthesis compared to their parental RB- tumor cells, and there were no noticeable changes in cell morphology. Furthermore, we have isolated long-term RB+ clones from Saos2, 5637, and the retinoblastoma cell line WERI-Rb27 after transfection/transduction with a RB expression plasmid or retrovirus. These clones were similar to their parental cell lines in terms of morphology and growth rates, and they all expressed functional RB protein (p110RB) as evidenced by its potential of phosphorylation, simian virus 40 large tumor antigen binding, and nuclear tethering. No mutation or deletion of the exogenous RB gene was detectable by PCR and single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. In addition, either the individual or pooled RB+ clones did form malignant tumors in nude mice but usually with a longer latency period and lower frequency. Such tumors also retained normal RB expression, suggesting that at least a portion of the RB-reconstituted tumor cells were still tumorigenic. This phenomenon is referred to by us as tumor suppressor resistance (TSR).
Protein kinase C is not involved in the cytotoxic action of 1-octadecyl-2-O-methyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphocholine in HL-60 and K562 cells.	We studied the effects of the alkyllysophospholipid 1-octadecyl-2-O-methyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphocholine (ET-18-OCH3) on membrane associated protein kinase C (PK-C) activity in ET-18-OCH3 sensitive HL-60 cells and in two resistant cell types, Me2SO differentiated HL-60 cells and K562 cells. HL-60 cells expressed a lower PK-C activity level compared with both resistant cell types. However, membrane-bound PK-C activity in the sensitive HL-60 cells was approximately 3-fold increased in the presence of ET-18-OCH3, whereas in differentiated HL-60 cells and K562 cells PK-C was not influenced by ET-18-OCH3. The increase in PK-C activity in HL-60 cells was not due to translocation of cytosolic PK-C or synthesis de novo. The effect of ET-18-OCH3 on kinetic parameters of PK-C in all three cell types was investigated in order to elucidate the nature of the ET-18-OCH3 effects on PK-C activity in both sensitive and resistant cell types. A functional relationship between PK-C level and effect of ET-18-OCH3 on PK-C activity in the different cell types could not be found. Moreover, cells depleted of PK-C activity showed similar sensitivity or resistance to ET-18-OCH3 as cells expressing PK-C activity. These results suggest that a role of PK-C in the cytotoxic action of ET-18-OCH3 is very unlikely.
Cytotoxic activity of N1- and N8-aziridinyl analogs of spermidine.	Two isomeric aziridine-containing analogs of spermidine, a polyamine, were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxic activity against cancer cell lines. Replacement of one of the primary amino groups of spermidine with an aziridinyl functionality yielded either N1-aziridinylspermidine [N-(3-aziridinylpropyl)-1,4-diaminobutane] or N8-aziridinylspermidine [N-(4-aziridinylbutyl)-1,3-diaminopropane]. N1-Aziridinylspermidine was cytotoxic in vitro against L1210 murine leukemia cells (IC50 0.15 microM) and HL60 human leukemia cells (IC50 0.11 microM). N8-Aziridinylspermidine was slightly less potent against L1210 (IC50 0.31 microM) and HL60 (IC50 0.30 microM) cells. When screened by the Developmental Therapeutics Program of the National Cancer Institute, these compounds proved cytotoxic against a wide variety of tumor types. Both compounds inhibited incorporation of radiolabeled thymidine, uridine, and valine into tricholoracetic acid-precipitable material by L1210 cells. Aminoguanidine did not affect the potency of the aziridinylspermidines.
DNA synthesis after combined treatment with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil of a mouse ascites tumor growing in vivo.	We examined whether an increase in the salvage and/or the de novo synthesis of thymidine (TdR) can explain the elevated DNA synthesis rate found up to 15-20 h after combined treatment with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), compared with single-drug regimen. The salvage and the de novo pathways of TdR in Bp8 mouse ascites tumor cells were reduced equally after the combined treatment and the single-drug treatments. The inhibition of the de novo pathway of TdR was confirmed by a reduced thymidylate synthase activity, as measured in cell extract. A marked imbalance of the deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates were found, in particular between the deoxypyrimidines. These imbalances were similar between the 5-FU single-drug treatment and combined treatment. We conclude that neither the extracellular TdR salvage nor the de novo synthesis of TdR explain the relatively elevated DNA synthesis rate after combined treatment. We suggest that the supra-additive effect of the combined treatment is due to an interaction between the elevated DNA synthesis, the imbalanced deoxyribonucleotides and the cisplatin-induced DNA cross-links, and possibly also due to a higher concentration of 5-FU incorporated into DNA.
Proliferative response of rabbit and rat gastric epithelial cells to human epidermal growth factor.	The effect of human epidermal growth factor (hEGF) on gastric epithelial proliferation was studied in vitro and in vivo. In the first study, subconfluent gastric epithelial cells derived from fetal rabbit stomach were incubated with hEGF at doses of 0, 1, 10, 50, 100, 500 ng/ml and tritiated thymidine incorporation into DNA was determined. In the second study, fasted rats were given intraperitoneal injections of 100 micrograms/kg hEGF and ornithine decarboxylase activity was quantitated. In the third study, hEGF at doses of 0, 5, 10, 25, 50 micrograms/kg was administered perorally 3 times a day for 7 days. During the experiment, rats were allowed ad libitum intake of food and water. After 7 days, all rats were injected with tritiated thymidine 1 microCi/g body weight and sacrificed 1 h later. Sections from fundic and antral mucosae were processed for autoradiography. While hEGF stimulated tritiated thymidine incorporation into DNA by gastric epithelial cells in vitro, neither parenteral nor peroral administration of hEGF affected the proliferative measurements as assessed by ornithine decarboxylase activity or autoradiography in adult rat gastric fundic and antral mucosae in vivo. These results indicate that although hEGF has a direct proliferative effect on fetal rabbit gastric epithelial cells, exogenously administered hEGF has little effect on adult rat gastric mucosal steady state cell proliferation under physiological conditions.
Effects of phorbol ester on protein kinase C activity and effects of depletion of its activity on thyrotrophin, forskolin and 8'-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-induced [3H]thymidine incorporation in rat FRTL-5 cells.	Protein kinase C (PKC) activity was measured in rat FRTL-5 cells cultured in medium containing insulin and transferrin (2H medium), in cells treated with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), an activator of PKC, and in cells treated with 4 alpha-12,13-phorbol didecanoate (4 alpha-PDD), an inactive phorbol ester, in order to study the translocation and down-regulation of its activity. Provided the PDBu induced translocation and down-regulation of PKC activity, we used the down-regulated cells to study the roles played by PKC in DNA synthesis induced by stimuli which increase cyclic AMP (cAMP) and a cAMP analogue. Cytosolic preparations obtained from cells cultured in 2H media were fractionated on a DEAE-cellulose column, and fractions were assayed for PKC activity. PKC activity was eluted at concentrations between 0.06 and 0.15 mol NaCl/l with a peak at 0.1 mol/l. Exposure of cells to PDBu (100 ng/ml) resulted in 53% loss of initial PKC activity in the cytosolic fraction in concert with reciprocal augmentation of PKC activity in the particulate fraction that peaked at 321% of the initial level at 15 min of exposure. When cells were stimulated with 100 ng PDBu/ml for 15 min, three- and 1.9-fold greater PKC activity appeared in the particular and total cellular (cytosol plus particulate) fractions respectively than was the case for stimulation with 10 ng PDBu/ml. The total cellular PKC activity transiently increased at 15 min to 137% and subsequently decreased to 74, 40 and 25% of the initial level at 1, 12 and 24 h respectively. However, translocation of PKC activity to the particulate fraction was not observed in cells treated for 15 min with either 10 or 100 ng 4 alpha-PDD/ml and total cellular PKC activity was modestly reduced, to 97% of the initial level in cells exposed to 4 alpha-PDD (100 ng/ml) for 24 h. [3H]Thymidine incorporation was measured in cells whose PKC activity was stimulated by TSH, forskolin or 8-bromoadenosine cAMP simultaneously with PDBu (100 ng/ml), and also in cells whose PKC activity had been down-regulated by pretreatment with PDBu prior to the addition of each stimulant. The [3H]thymidine incorporation induced by each of the stimulants was inhibited in cells whose PKC activity was subjected to simultaneous stimulation, but was enhanced in cells whose PKC activity had previously been depleted. This potentiating effect of PDBu pretreatment on subsequent TSH-induced [3H]thymidine incorporation was not observed in cells exposed to PDBu for less than 12 h, but was observed in cells exposed for 24 h or longer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Age-related changes in replication of myogenic cells in mdx mice: quantitative autoradiographic studies.	Cell replication in muscle was measured by tritiated thymidine (3H-TdR) incorporation and autoradiography, in mdx mice from 2-44 weeks of age. Pre-mitotic labelling (within 1 h of 3H-TdR injection) was determined in 16 mice aged from 15 to 300 days. In 30 further mdx mice, one leg was irradiated 1 h after 3H-TdR injection to block DNA synthesis. Post-mitotic labelling was measured in both legs 10-15 days later. Between 20 and 60 days of age a very high proportion (up to 2%) of muscle (satellite cell) nuclei were replicating pre-mitotically; from 80-300 days cell replication was detectable but at much lower levels. Centrally placed nuclei within muscle fibres appeared at 24 days, increased rapidly to 50% by 50-100 days, declining thereafter to 25% at 300 days. In post-mitotic samples, labelled myotubes and labelled peripheral muscle nuclei (satellite cell nuclei and myonuclei) appeared at 28 days and were present in the mdx muscles through to 310 days, indicating continued cell replication and muscle regeneration. Myogenic cell replication was both retarded and inhibited by irradiation. These data demonstrate that muscle cell replication in mdx mice commences at about 3 weeks of age, is maximal at 4-8 weeks, but continues at lower levels until at least 44 weeks.
Both low- and high-affinity CCK receptor states mediate trophic effects on rat pancreatic acinar cells.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) stimulates the growth of pancreatic acinar cells. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in this trophic action are unknown. CCK binds to both high- and low-affinity receptor states, and these two states appear to activate separate sets of intracellular messengers and have opposite effects on amylase release. JMV-180 is a CCK analogue that interacts in the rat with the high-affinity state as an agonist and the low-affinity state as an antagonist. In the current study, CCK octapeptide (CCK-8) and JMV-180 were tested for their ability to stimulate the growth of rat pancreatic acinar cells in primary culture. CCK-8 stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA in a dose-dependent manner. Effects were observed with 0.3 nM, and maximal increases were seen at 3 nM CCK-8 (442 +/- 53% of control, n = 5, P < 0.01). JMV-180 also stimulated DNA synthesis. Effects were noted with 10 nM, and a maximal increase of 267 +/- 82% (n = 4, P < 0.01) of control was stimulated by 100 nM JMV-180. These data with JMV-180 indicate that the high-affinity receptor state for CCK is capable of stimulating DNA synthesis. However, within the same experiment the effects of CCK were always significantly greater than those of JMV-180. To test whether CCK has an additional effect through interactions with the low-affinity state, the effects of a combination of JMV-180 with a maximal dose of CCK-8 were examined. JMV-180 inhibited the maximal effect of CCK-8 in a dose-dependent manner with a maximal inhibition occurring with 1 microM JMV-180. The effects of the combination of 3 nM CCK-8 and 1 microM JMV-180 were no greater than those of JMV-180 alone. Taken together these data indicate that CCK-mediated increases in DNA synthesis in rat pancreatic acinar cells in vitro occur by interactions with both high- and low-affinity receptor states.
Bovine articular chondrocytes do not undergo hypertrophy when cultured in the presence of serum and osteogenic protein-1.	Osteogenic protein-1 (hOP-1, BMP-7) is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. We have recently shown that hOP-1 induces and promotes maturation and hypertrophy of chick sternal chondrocytes, cultured in monolayer or suspension in the presence or absence of serum. In the present study we demonstrate that bovine articular chondrocytes, grown for up to 5 weeks in the presence of 0.5% or 10% serum in combination with 30 ng/ml hOP-1, do not undergo hypertrophy, as determined by cell size, the absence of type X collagen expression and synthesis, and of alkaline phosphatase activity. Treatment with hOP-1 (30 ng/ml) resulted in increased matrix synthesis as measured by [35S]sulfate incorporation and by collagen type II synthesis and expression, without influencing cell proliferation. These data suggest that primary mammalian articular chondrocytes are not able to undergo hypertrophy in conditions previously shown to be permissive for hypertrophy of both chick sternal and chick articular chondrocytes.
Synchronous replication of SV 40 DNA in virus infected TC 7 cells induced by transient hypoxia.	We transiently exposed SV 40 infected TC 7 cell cultures to a reduced O2 tension (4-8 h, about 200 ppm relative to 10(5) Pa total pressure). Under the hypoxic conditions, 'working' viral replication forks were greatly retarded or stopped, and initiation of daughter strand synthesis in further SV 40 DNA molecules was suppressed. Reoxygenation released an immediate burst of SV 40 replication which mainly consisted of a synchronous viral replication round. This synchronous in vivo replication began at the known origin of replication and proceeded at normal rates to the known termination region. Viral replicons seemed to accumulate under hypoxia in a state fully prepared to begin replication immediately after recovery of a normal pO2. The shut-down and sudden reactivation of DNA synthesis under hypoxia and reoxygenation, respectively, were not accompanied by changes of the phosphorylation state of large T antigen. The described synchronization procedure can be applied to optionally large SV 40 infected cell cultures.
Effects of parathyroid hormone-related peptide on chick growth plate chondrocytes.	Parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP) and parathyroid hormone (PTH) have similar biological effects in vitro that are mediated through the PTH receptor. PTH receptors have been demonstrated in the zone of provisional calcification and the hypertrophic zone of the cartilaginous growth plate. The current study examined the biological effects of PTHrP on chick growth plate chondrocytes. Chondrocytes were exposed to varying doses of PTHrP for 24 h, and the incorporation of radioactive thymidine into DNA was used as an index of proliferation. A dose-dependent stimulation of proliferation was seen, with a maximal 27-fold increase at 50 nM PTHrP. A dose-dependent stimulation of cAMP was seen, with a maximal effect at a dose of 50 nM. Proteoglycan synthesis, measured by incorporation of radioactive sulfate, was stimulated, with a maximal effect of 65% at 1 nM. Collagen synthesis and alkaline phosphatase activity from both cellular and matrix vesicle sources decreased in a dose-dependent fashion, with a maximal inhibition of approximately 50% of the control value. The physiologic significance of the PTH and PTHrP-responsiveness of growth plate chondrocytes is uncertain at the present time. It is possible that PTH or PTHrP, or both, act as a systemic, developmental modulator of cellular proliferation and differentiation in the growth plate.
Intrathymic regulation of proliferation of medullary thymocytes in CBA mice]	The action of non-peptide mitogenic factor (NMF) on the following thymocytes populations: common cortisone-resistant (CR); cortisone-resistant cells without macrophages (CR-M) and mature (PNP-) thymocytes was studied. It has been shown, that NMF shifts the catabolism of (8-(14) C) AMP towards hypoxanthine accumulation as well as stimulates the (2(-14) C) Thd incorporation in DNA of thymocyte populations to an increasing degree when comparing CR with PNA- cells. The action of NMF is not mediated by macrophages. It has been concluded that mature PNP- population is the target for NMF.
Toxoplasma gondii: susceptibility and development of resistance to anticoccidial drugs in vitro.	Anticoccidial drugs were evaluated for activity and for the development of resistance in a model of Toxoplasma gondii growing in human fibroblast cultures. Of 13 anticoccidial drugs tested, 9 had selective antitoxoplasma activity (50% inhibitory concentration, in micrograms per milliliter): decoquinate (0.005), arprinocid-N-oxide (0.015), robenidine (0.03), the aryl triazine CP-25,415 (0.2), toltrazuril (0.4), clopidol (1), dinitolmide (Zoalene; Dow) (10), and the carboxylic acid ionophores monensin (0.001) and salinomycin (0.04). Glycarbylamide, amprolium, nicarbazin, and the 6-(p-bromophenoxy)-7-chloro analog of halofuginone (Stenorol; Roussel-UCLAF) (CP-63,567) were toxic for the fibroblasts. Since Eimeria tenella has a similar drug susceptibility profile, anticoccidial drugs can be viewed as a potential source of new antitoxoplasma therapies. The development of resistance has limited the usefulness of most of these drugs as anticoccidial agents; in coccidia, resistance to all except the ionophores occurs readily in vivo. We explored the development of resistance in T. gondii by attempting to select mutants in vitro from parasites mutagenized with ethylnitrosourea. Mutants that had 20- to 50-fold-reduced susceptibility to decoquinate, arprinocid-N-oxide, and CP-25,415 were obtained. Ionophore-resistant T. gondii mutants were also selected in vitro; however, there was only a twofold difference in susceptibility between these mutants and the wild type. For three drugs (clopidol, robenidine, and toltrazuril), we were unable to select resistant mutants. For experimental anticoccidial drugs, there is currently no in vitro method for assessing the risk of development of resistance in Eimeria species. Our results suggest that T. gondii may offer a useful surrogate for this assessment.
Epidermal growth factor and insulin induce the proliferation of guinea pig endometrial stromal cells in serum-free culture, whereas estradiol and progesterone do not.	Guinea pig endometrial stromal cells were cultured in serum-free medium to assess the effects of growth factors and ovarian steroids on cell proliferation. When the cells were made quiescent by serum depletion, [3H]thymidine incorporation was increased by the addition of insulin plus epidermal growth factor (EGF), reaching a peak after 24 h of stimulation. This effect was dose-dependent. Both factors acted synergistically. Estradiol-17 beta (E2), either alone or with various concentrations of growth factors, had no mitogenic effect. Thus, cell proliferation appeared to be estrogen-insensitive, despite a high level of estrogen receptors (19,000 sites per cell). The integrity of these receptors was checked by transfecting cells with a plasmid containing an estrogen-responsive element linked to a CAT gene: E2-induced CAT activity was reduced by the antiestrogen ICI 164,384. Despite the presence of progesterone receptors, the cells, either primed with E2 or not, were not growth-stimulated by progesterone. E2 had no effect on cells cultured in the presence of dextran-coated charcoal-stripped serum. Thus, whatever the culture conditions, stromal cells with functional estrogen receptors were insensitive to the putative mitogenic effects of E2 and progesterone. However, they were highly responsive to the mitogenic effects of insulin and EGF.
Localization of transforming growth factor alpha in the human placenta and decidua: role in trophoblast growth.	Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) is an important growth regulatory molecule, the location and function of which at the human fetomaternal interface remain to be determined. The present study examined the presence of TGF alpha in the human placenta, decidua, and fetal membranes throughout gestation (from a total of 29 subjects) as well as its functional role in the proliferation of first trimester trophoblasts. The peptide was localized immunocytochemically with a monoclonal anti-TGF alpha antibody (Ab) (MF9) on paraffin-embedded tissues via the avidin-biotin complex-peroxidase technique with diaminobenzidine (DAB) as the chromogen. Omission or TGF alpha absorption of the primary Ab served as negative controls. Specific (cytoplasmic) staining was noted in typical stromal-type decidual cells, including cells of the decidua basalis and parietalis and chorionic decidua, throughout gestation. Villous trophoblast cells (syncytiotrophoblast and to a minor extent cytotrophoblast) at all gestational ages as well as extravillous cytotrophoblast cells (intermediate and cytotrophoblastic shell) also showed specific cytoplasmic staining. Chorionic trophoblasts showed variable staining, and little or no immunoreactivity was seen in the amniocytes. Second-passage first trimester human trophoblast cells (characterized by their expression of cytokeratin as well as other markers) were cultured in the presence of TGF alpha or neutralizing anti-TGF alpha Ab (TAb-1) or no additive for 18 h prior to exposure to 3H-TdR for 6 h to measure 3H-TdR uptake. TGF alpha (0-100 ng/ml) caused a dose-dependent stimulation of proliferation, reaching a near plateau at 6-100 ng/ml to slightly more than double the basal level. The presence of anti-TGF alpha Ab alone (25 micrograms/ml) did not significantly influence the proliferation of the cells, indicating the absence of significant endogenous TGF alpha in these cultures; however, the Ab was able to abolish the stimulatory function of exogenous TGF alpha. Exogenous TGF alpha also increased the number of trophoblast nuclei immunoreactive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen and reduced the incidence of multinucleate cells in culture. These results indicate that TGF alpha is present in the cells of the fetomaternal interface throughout human gestation and may function as a stimulator of trophoblastic growth in situ.
Modulation of thymidine incorporation by kappa-opioid ligands in rat spinal cord-dorsal root ganglion co-cultures.	beta-Endorphin, met-enkephalin and several mu-selective opioid agonists were shown to decrease thymidine incorporation into DNA in various neural cell cultures. We now report that the kappa-selective opioid agonists U50488, U69593 and MR2034 modulate [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA in rat spinal cord-dorsal root ganglion co-cultures. U50488 at 10 microM increased by 60% thymidine incorporation in 6-day-old cultures. The thymidine incorporation induced by U50488 was blocked by the kappa-selective antagonist nor-binaltorphimine, as well as by pertussis toxin and LiCl. U50488 treatment stimulated phosphatidylinositol turnover by three-fold compared with untreated controls. These findings suggest that kappa-opioid agonists modulate DNA synthesis in spinal cord-dorsal root ganglion co-cultures through a mechanism which involves pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins, as well as activation of phosphatidylinositol turnover.
Surgical preparation induces injury and promotes smooth muscle cell proliferation in a culture of human saphenous vein.	The aim was to investigate the influence of vessel wall injury, incurred during routine vein preparation, on smooth muscle cell proliferation.
The dynamics of cell death in the olfactory epithelium.	Adult vertebrate olfactory epithelia are unique in their continual sensory neuron turnover and replacement. This paper describes studies of various aspects of the death of these receptor neurons in unoperated rats and at 12 days and 7 weeks after unilateral ablation of the olfactory bulb, the receptor neuron synaptic target. Particular attention has been focused on the lifespan of the dying cells using tritiated thymidine/autoradiography to examine their "birthdates." We show that in control epithelia 25-30% of the degenerating (pyknotic) cells were located in the basal quarter of the epithelium, the location of the least mature sensory neurons and of neuronal stem cell proliferation. Birthdate analysis shows that 2-5% of the degenerating cells were dying within a day or less of their "birth." Thus, a sizeable proportion of these cells were dying precociously, before achieving full neuronal maturation. A further 65% of the dying cells occurred in the middle half and 7% in the apical quarter of the epithelium. Following unilateral olfactory bulbectomy, a two- to threefold increase in the number of degenerating cells occurred in ipsilateral versus contralateral tissue. This was maintained through the 7-week experimental period. A shift of 10-15% of the total degenerating cell numbers from the basal to middle region of the epithelium also occurred. Despite the increased degenerative activity ipsilaterally, the proportion of dying cells labeled autoradiographically remained the same on both sides at most labeling periods. However, a striking wave of enhanced cell death of 6- to 7-day-old neurons over the contralateral levels occurred ipsilaterally in both the 12-day and 7-week postbulbectomy animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nucleoside transport by perfused human placenta.	Nucleoside transport and metabolism by human placenta was studied using the dual perfusion technique. With [3H] thymidine added to the maternal perfusate and neither perfusate recirculated (steady-state studies) around 40 per cent of the thymidine in the maternal outflow and 50 per cent of the transferred thymidine was degraded. In similar studies with adenosine, over 95 per cent of the nucleoside was degraded. Even with the bolus technique which sharply limits the duration of contact with the placenta, degradation of adenosine was over 95 per cent. Uptake as calculated by the dual-tracer method ([3H] adenosine/[14C] L-glucose) was equally rapid from the maternal and fetal perfusates, was saturable and inhibited by nitrosobenzylthioinosine, consistent with the facilitated diffusion system for nucleosides. Thymidine was taken up at one-third the rate of adenosine. Thymidine in large excess (500 microM) reduced adenosine uptake suggesting a common transporter. Zidovudine, a thymidine analogue used for the treatment of AIDS in which the ribose is modified at the 2' 3' position, did not compete with adenosine for uptake consistent with previous reports that zidovudine is transferred across the placenta by simple diffusion.
Atherogenic potential of blood serum in patients with type I diabetes mellitus]	The task of this research was to study exogenous insulin effect on blood serum atherogenic potential in patients with type I diabetes mellitus. Under study were relationship between blood serum atherogenic potential in diabetics and daily insulin dose and duration of therapy, as well as exogenous insulin effect on the major atherosclerotic manifestations in tissue cultures, such as intracellular cholesterol content in cultured cells and labeled thymidine incorporation in cellular nuclei DNA. Blood serum atherogenicity did not correlate with insulin dose and duration of insulin therapy both in adult patients and children. Insulin prescription to newly detected patients with type I condition did not influence blood serum atherogenic potential. Exogenic insulin did not influence the major atherosclerotic manifestations at the cellular level, namely, on intracellular cholesterol content in cultured cells and these cells proliferative activity; it had no influence on blood serum atherogenic potential of the patients with type I condition.
Complementation assay of primer protein: gene expression systems of plasmid vectors support the infection of suppressor sensitive mutant phages M2 and phi 29.	Two different expression systems of genes of primer proteins (pE for phage M2, and p3 for phi 29) were constructed to study the protein primed DNA replication of Bacillus phages M2 and phi 29. In one system, expression of the genes was under the control of the inducible spac promoter, whereas in the other system, the expression was under the control of the constitutive promoter in plasmid pUB110. Complementation tests in vivo were performed between the primer proteins expressed by these systems and mutant phages having suppressor sensitive mutations in the genes of the primer proteins. The phages M2 susE and phi 29 sus3 were complemented by pE and p3 expressed by the systems, respectively. However, the complementation and apparent phage DNA synthesis were not detected in the combinations between susE of phage M2 and p3 of phage phi 29, and vice versa. Although pE and p3 proteins exhibited structurally and functionally similar characteristics, these proteins showed species specificity in the protein primed DNA replication of bacteriophages M2 and phi 29.
Penetration and binding of L- and D-carboranylalanine in human melanoma spheroids.	The principle of boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) is that a cell-specific 10B-containing substance binds to tumour cells and irradiation with thermal neutrons is performed when the 10B concentration, in relation to the levels in critical normal tissues, is at a maximum. Some boron compounds have recently been proposed for BNCT of malignant melanomas; the synthesized L- and D- forms of carboranylalanine and the previously tested compound L-p-boronophenylalanine are candidates. Human melanoma, IGR1, spheroids were used as models of melanoma nodules in this study. The spheroids developed central necrosis when they were about 480 microns in diameter and the volume doubling time was 2.6 +/- 0.3 days. The tritiated thymidine labelling index decreased rapidly as a function of distance from the periphery and was, at a depth of 175 microns, close to zero. The penetration patterns showed, for L- and D-carboranylalanine and L-p-boronophenylalanine, a homogeneous distribution of 10B throughout the spheroids by 5 min. L-Carboranylalanine gave a more or less even binding of 10B throughout the spheroids and large amounts were present also in the central necrotic regions. D-Carboranylalanine also gave a homogeneous 10B binding in the viable cell layers while the binding in the central necrotic area was lower and a similar, but somewhat lower, binding was found for L-p-boronophenylalanine. Thus, there were no penetration barriers for the boron compounds and binding of 10B was found also in the deeper regions of the viable cell layers. The results showed that the new carboranylalanine compounds are of interest for further analysis, including toxicological and pharmacological studies in vivo.
Origin of the avian glycogen body. II. Observations in support of a glial nature in the chick embryo.	Stem cells of the glycogen body in chick embryos at 7-8 days of incubation (stages 31-34) were studied by light microscopy autoradiography, immunocytochemistry, and following induced spina bifida to discern their nature and origin. Glycogen cells displayed the presence of glial fibrillar acid protein and vimentin at the time of their appearance at 7-8 days of incubation (stages 31-34). Displayed also were indications of DNA synthesis by thymidine incorporation during that period of development. Observations suggest that glycogen body cells are glial in nature, possibly radial glia which arise from neuroepithelium that comprises the ependyma and roof plate of the avian lumbosacral spinal cord.
Inhibitory effect of tannin in green tea on the proliferation of mesangial cells.	The effect of green tea tannin on the proliferation of mesangial cells was determined in terms of [3H]thymidine uptake. When green tea tannin was added to the medium of mesangial cell cultures, it suppressed the proliferation of mesangial cells markedly. In particular, (-)-epigallocatechin 3-O-gallate, the predominant component of the green tea tannin mixture, exerted an inhibitory effect at a relatively low concentration, suggesting a direct corroboration of the renal effects.
Fibroblast behavior in the embryonic chick heart.	Intracardiac fibroblasts (mesenchymal cells) of Hamburger and Hamilton stage 36 chick heart reside in the epicardium and atrioventricular valves. The characteristics of the epicardial fibroblasts include segregation from the myocytes of the heart wall myocardium, voluminous extracellular matrix production, and some cell proliferation activity. The atrioventricular fibroblasts intermingle with myocytes at the mutual border between these tissues, produce smaller amounts of extracellular matrix, and show very active cell proliferation. Is the behavior of each population of fibroblasts predetermined or is each responding in a reversible fashion to local environment? A cell aggregate culture system, which permits 3-dimensional cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, is used to study the behavior of each isolated population of fibroblasts in vitro. In the presence of serum-free medium, each population produces very little extracellular matrix, has relatively low mitotic activity, and does not segregate from myocytes when the aggregate is composed of randomly intermixed myocytes and fibroblasts. In the presence of chicken serum, each population increases matrix production, increases cell proliferation, and sorts from myocytes. Thus, we suggest that the two populations of fibroblasts in the developing heart are responding to local environments and the differences observed in vivo are not the consequence of irreversible states of cellular differentiation.
The role of cytotoxic macrophages in non-obese diabetic mice: cytotoxicity against murine mastocytoma and beta-cell lines.	The cytotoxicity of macrophages from non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice against murine mastocytoma (P-815), and murine beta-cell lines having the NOD gene background (MIN6N-9a), were examined. Peritoneal exudate cells from 20-week-old mice showed higher cytotoxicity, measured as inhibition of thymidine uptake into P-815, than those from 12-week-old mice (p < 0.01). In cyclophosphamide-injected mice, cytotoxicity of peritoneal exudate cells had increased at 8 days post-injection, at which time the mice were not diabetic. To confirm macrophage cytotoxicity against pancreatic cells and examine its cytolytic mechanism, the cytotoxicity of peritoneal exudate cells from cyclophosphamide-injected NOD mice against MIN6N-9a cells was measured by the chromium release assay. These peritoneal exudate cells showed higher cytotoxicity as compared to those of saline-injected mice (p < 0.001). Macrophages were demonstrated to be the major component of peritoneal exudate cells (50%) by flowcytometric analyses. Cytotoxicity increased with macrophage enrichment by adhesion (p < 0.01). Furthermore, a macrophage toxin, silica, completely blocked the cytotoxicity (p < 0.001). Cytokines (interleukin 1 and tumour necrosis factor) and a nitric-oxide-producing vasodilator, sodium nitroprusside, were cytotoxic to MIN6N-9a cells but only sodium nitroprusside showed cytotoxicity when incubated for the same period as peritoneal exudate cells. Thus, macrophages play an important role in beta-cell destruction and soluble factors other than cytokines (e.g. nitric oxide) may be mediators of this early cytolytic process.
Alkylation damage and repair in Alzheimer's disease lymphocytes.	We have previously shown that lymphocytes from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are hypersensitive to ionising radiation, as revealed by their higher levels of dicentrics than those from age-matched, normal individuals. We have now examined the sensitivity of these cells to N-methyl-N-nitrosourea or methyl methanesulphonate, using a variety of assays, namely unscheduled DNA synthesis, viability, sister chromatid exchange and, via high performance liquid chromatography, level of methylation and repair of the adducts, 7-methylguanine, 0(6)-methylguanine and 3-methyladenine. We have found that AD lymphocytes and age-matched normal lymphocytes respond similarly to methylation damage, as assessed by all these techniques.
Protein kinase C-dependent and -independent pathways of signal transduction in prostate cancer cells: fibroblast growth factor utilization of a protein kinase C-independent pathway.	To examine the possibility that differences in protein tyrosine phosphorylation contributed to differences in fibroblast growth factor (FGF) responsiveness of clonally derived C3 (modestly responsive) and T5 (highly responsive) rat prostate cancer cells, we evaluated the ability of orthovanadate to affect prostate cancer cell thymidine incorporation. These analyses showed that C3 cell FGF insensitivity was not attributable to enhanced protein phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity. Analyses of acidic FGF (aFGF)-mediated protein phosphorylation showed mitogen-caused, time-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of C3 and T5 cell FGF receptors (FGFRs) and other proteins having a mass of 190, 150, 120, 100, 90, 80, 74, 60/62, 50, 42, or 28 kilodaltons. Although marked differences characterized aFGF mediated intensity of tyrosine phosphorylation, the notable commonality of tyrosine phosphorylation and the mass of the phosphorylated proteins suggested that C3 and T5 cells may use the ras and/or protein kinase C (PKC) pathways for FGF-mediated signal transduction. The PKC agonist 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) caused concentration-dependent increases in T5 cell thymidine incorporation. In contrast, TPA did not enhance thymidine incorporation of C3 cells or mitogen-sensitive NRK cells included as a nonneoplastic control. TPA also significantly enhanced T5 cell proliferation, whereas identical treatment did not affect proliferation of either C3 or NRK cells. Either 12 or 24 h treatment with 200 or 2000 ng/ml TPA caused complete PKC alpha and partial PKC delta down-regulation in C3, T5, and NRK cells. Consequently, the failure of TPA to affect C3 or NRK cell thymidine incorporation or proliferation was not attributable to potential TPA ineffectiveness in these cells. Survey immunological analyses showed that all three cell lines lacked PKC beta, PKC eta, and PKC theta. In contrast, T5 cells contained abundant amounts of PKC epsilon, whereas the PKC epsilon content of C3 and NRK cells was near the limit of detection. TPA treatment of T5 cells evoked only partial PKC epsilon down-regulation. Both aFGF and basic FGF (bFGF) promoted concentration-dependent enhancement of TPA-pretreated T5 cell thymidine incorporation, and the effects of combined TPA and either aFGF or bFGF treatment were additive. Neither aFGF nor bFGF was able to enhance thymidine incorporation of TPA-pretreated C3 cells beyond the modest effects elicited by FGF treatment of C3 controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of acetaminophen and hydroxyurea on spermatogenesis and sperm chromatin structure in laboratory mice.	High doses of acetaminophen (400 mg/kg) or hydroxyurea (200 mg/kg) given intraperitoneally daily for 5 d caused reduction in relative testicular weight in mice (B6C3/F1/BOM M). Testicular atrophy of several tubules was seen in the hydroxyurea-treated mice 5 d after the last exposure, whereas acetaminophen did not lead to such changes. Exposure to acetaminophen caused neither a depletion of glutathione in the testis nor a marked increase in covalent binding. In contrast, significant decreases in the incorporation of thymidine into the testis were observed during the first 3 h following a single treatment with acetaminophen (100 to 400 mg/kg) or hydroxyurea (100 to 200 mg/kg). In mice treated with acetaminophen (400 mg/kg) or hydroxyurea (200 mg/kg) daily for 5 d, flow cytometric analysis revealed large reductions in one of the tetraploid populations of testicular cells (mostly early pachytene spermatocytes) on days 5 and 10. Changes in the populations of the various spermatid stages occurred later; thus, both compounds appeared to cause a delay in spermiogenesis. Indications of abnormal chromatin structure were seen in an increased frequency of vas deferens sperm on days 27 and 33 after the last exposure, when measured as increased susceptibility towards DNA denaturation in situ. In conclusion, high doses of acetaminophen or hydroxyurea inhibit DNA synthesis in the testis. The present data indicate that this leads to reduced testicular weight, a reduction in the number of early pachytene spermatocytes, changes in the proportions of the various spermatid stages, and an apparent alteration in sperm chromatin structure.
DNA rearrangements in Euplotes crassus coincide with discrete periods of DNA replication during the polytene chromosome stage of macronuclear development.	Macronuclear development in Euplotes crassus begins with polytenization of micronuclear chromosomes and is accompanied by highly precise excision of DNA sequences known as internal eliminated sequences and transposon-like elements (Tecs). Quantitation of radiolabeled-precursor incorporation into DNA indicates that DNA synthesis during formation of polytene chromosomes is not continuous and occurs during two distinct periods. We demonstrate that the timing of Tec excision coincides with these replication periods and that excision can occur during both periods even at a single locus. We also show that Tec and internal eliminated sequence excisions are coincident in the second replication period, thus providing further evidence for similarity in their excision mechanism. Inhibition of DNA synthesis with hydroxyurea diminishes Tec element excision, indicating that replication is an important aspect of the excision process.
Mitogenic signals and transforming potential of Nyk, a newly identified neural cell adhesion molecule-related receptor tyrosine kinase.	Nyk/Mer is a recently identified receptor tyrosine kinase with neural cell adhesion molecule-like structure (two immunoglobulin G-like domains and two fibronectin III-like domains) in its extracellular region and belongs to the Ufo/Axl family of receptors. The ligand for Nyk/Mer is presently unknown, as are the signal transduction pathways mediated by this receptor. We constructed and expressed a chimeric receptor (Fms-Nyk) composed of the extracellular domain of the human colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (Fms) and the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of human Nyk/Mer in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts in order to investigate the mitogenic signaling and biochemical properties of Nyk/Mer. Colony-stimulating factor 1 stimulation of the Fms-Nyk chimeric receptor in transfected NIH 3T3 fibroblasts leads to a transformed phenotype and generates a proliferative response in the absence of other growth factors. We show that phospholipase C gamma, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/p70 S6 kinase, Shc, Grb2, Raf-1, and mitogen-activated protein kinase are downstream components of the Nyk/Mer signal transduction pathways. In addition, Nyk/Mer weakly activates p90rsk, while stress-activated protein kinase, Ras GTPase-activating protein (GAP), and GAP-associated p62 and p190 proteins are not activated or tyrosine phosphorylated by Nyk/Mer. An analysis comparing the Nyk/Mer signal cascade with that of the epidermal growth factor receptor indicates substrate preferences by these two receptors. Our results provide a detailed description of the Nyk/Mer signaling pathways. Given the structural similarity between the Ufo/Axl family receptors, some of the information may also be applied to other members of this receptor tyrosine kinase family.
Liver regeneration following partial hepatectomy and stimulation by hepatic stimulatory substance in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic rats.	The effects of hepatic stimulatory substance (HSS) on cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic rats were studied after 70% partial hepatectomy. Liver cirrhosis was produced by weekly intragastric infusion of chloroform for 12-16 weeks. The HSS was prepared by extraction from the livers of weanling mice. Rats in the experimental group were injected with 5 ml HSS after 70% partial hepatectomy, and those in the control group received normal saline. The results showed that the 3H-thymidine incorporation was higher in the HSS group 24 h after partial hepatectomy in both cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic rats, and persistently higher in the non-cirrhotic rats at 48 h. Total DNA was significantly higher in the HSS group of non-cirrhotic rats 24 and 48 h after partial hepatectomy. The restituted liver volume and weight was significantly higher in non-cirrhotic rats 48 h after partial hepatectomy, while there was no significant difference between the HSS and the control groups in the cirrhotic rats. The HSS induced significant effects on 3H-thymidine incorporation in the non-cirrhotic liver, resulting in increasing liver weight, volume and total DNA 48 h after partial hepatectomy. In cirrhotic rats, the 3H-thymidine incorporation was higher in the HSS group at 24 h after partial hepatectomy, though not showing any increase at 48 h, but the regeneration of liver weight, volume and total DNA at 48 h showed no difference between the HSS group and the control group.
Polyamines and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase expression in KM 3 pre-B cell line during phorbol ester induced differentiation.	The aliphatic polyamines, putrescine, spermine and spermidine belong to a category of molecules implicated in DNA replication. Their synthesis is strongly activated during the G1 period and they have been implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. Terminal transferase is a DNA polymerase present in pre-T and pre-B cells and its expression can be modulated by phorbol ester treatment. In this study we have monitored the relationship of intracellular polyamine levels with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase down-regulation induced by 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol myristate 13-acetate treatment in the human pre-B KM-3 cell line. Phorbol myristate acetate can cause an increase, at 4 and 8 hours of differentiation, of intracellular levels of putrescine as well as a decrease in terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase synthesis showing the probable involvement that polyamines have in the differentiation process.
Steroidal and growth factor regulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation by cultured endosalpingeal cells of the bovine oviduct.	Cultured cells from the bovine endosalpinx were used to evaluate effects of estradiol-17 beta, progesterone, epidermal growth factor, and insulinlike growth factors I and II on [3H]thymidine incorporation. Cells were treated with hormones and growth factors when approximately 50% confluent. After 24 h, DNA synthesis was quantified by pulsing cells with [3H]thymidine for 12 h and determining uptake into DNA. Cells prepared by mechanical dispersal incorporated more [3H]thymidine than cells dispersed with collagenase. However, hormonal responses were the same for both types of cells. As compared to plastic, cells on a Matrigel substratum exhibited lower incorporation of [3H]thymidine and were unresponsive to hormones. Estradiol-17 beta increased [3H]thymidine incorporation slightly at 10(-10) mol/liter and higher. Epidermal growth factor, insulinlike growth factor-I, and insulinlike growth factor-II also stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation. Effects of insulinlike growth factor-I were greater for cells treated with estradiol-17 beta. In the absence of estradiol, progesterone inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation at 1, 10, and 100 ng/ml. When estradiol-17 beta was present, progesterone stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation at 1 ng/ml and reduced incorporation at 100 ng/ml. In conclusion, [3H]thymidine incorporation by cultured oviductal endosalpingeal cells can be regulated by ovarian steroids and growth factors. These molecules may represent signals through which the ovary, embryo, and oviduct regulate oviductal growth.
Antiproliferative effect of multiple autocrine loop blockade in human malignant glioma cell lines.	The effects of specific antibodies against growth factors and receptors on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis in two established human glioma cell lines, A172 and TM-1, were examined. Anti-platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), anti-basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) antibodies inhibited thymidine incorporation by both cell lines in serum-free medium. Antibody specific to transforming growth factor-alpha only slightly suppressed DNA synthesis by both cell lines. Although the antiproliferative effects of anti-PDGF and anti-bFGF antibodies decreased in serum-supplemented medium, the effect of anti-EGF-R antibody was little changed. The combination of anti-PDGF, anti-bFGF, and anti-EGF-R antibodies significantly inhibited thymidine incorporation by the two cell lines even in serum-supplemented medium. This preliminary study suggests that simultaneous blockade of multiple autocrine loops may provide a new approach to the treatment of human malignant gliomas.
Basic fibroblast growth factor is hepatotropic for rat liver in regeneration.	A role for fibroblast growth factor in liver regeneration has recently been suggested. In this study we followed the intravenous delivery of recombinant human [125I]basic fibroblast growth factor to the liver of rats following 68% partial hepatectomy. The concentration of [125I]basic fibroblast growth factor was higher in the liver (mean +/- SD, 6.8 +/- 0.89% of injected dose) and the kidney (6.7 +/- 0.2%) of sham-operated rats than in the spleen (2.8 +/- 0.45%). It increased threefold in the liver only, soon after 68% partial hepatectomy (20.3 +/- 5.3%, p < 0.001), and remained high for the first 24 h. We also studied the effect of basic fibroblast growth factor injection on the rate of [3H]thymidine incorporation into liver DNA in rats subjected to either 21% or 68% partial hepatectomy. A significant increase was seen after intramesenteric injection of 500 ng basic fibroblast growth factor into rats subjected to 21% partial hepatectomy (23.5 +/- 7.3 cpm/micrograms DNA) compared to saline-injected rats (14.5 +/- 6.4 cpm/micrograms DNA, p = 0.034). A dose of 5000-25,000 ng injected into a peripheral vein resulted in higher thymidine incorporation than in saline-injected control rats (36.9 +/- 12.7 and 9.7 +/- 6.1 cpm/micrograms DNA, respectively; p < 0.0001). No significant effect was seen after 68% partial hepatectomy. Autoradiography showed that the hepatocytes were the predominant labelled cells early after hepatectomy and basic fibroblast growth factor injection. We conclude that basic fibroblast growth factor uptake by the liver is increased after 68% partial hepatectomy and that basic fibroblast growth factor is mitogenic to liver parenchymal cells early after 21% partial hepatectomy.
Thymidine incorporation is less sensitive to lack of zinc in human than in rodent cells.	The inhibition of thymidine incorporation by inadequate availability of zinc induced by adding a chelator to the culture medium was significantly less in human cell lines than in rodent cell lines. In contrast, zinc uptake into the human cells was inhibited by the chelator to a greater extent than with rodent cells. The possible implications of these observations for the dietary zinc requirements of humans and rodents are discussed.
Effect of N-nitroso-N'-methylurea on the cellular kinetics in tumors]	Single intrafemoral injection of NMU in the dosage of 80 mg/Kh in mice with ascites leucemia L1210 induced considerable disorders in the tumor cell cycle. The passage of phase S by cells was markedly retarded during the period from 1 hour to 6 days, while after injection of the substance under study a maximum duration of phase G2 increased from 4 to 12 hours. Inhibition of phase S onset was provisional, and already 6 hours following NMU injection all cells entered phase S. In mice mammary tumors the  label index fell markedly (by 90%) during the period from 6 hours to 8 days after NMU injection. The intensity of 3H-thymidine incorporation during the whole period of observation was approximately twice reduced.
Autoradiographic study of mesothelial proliferation in white mice under experimental conditions]	The proliferative activity (mitotic cycle, proliferative pool) of the mesothelium of the parietal peritoneum of white mice acted upon by distilled water was studied autoradiographically with H3-thymidine. The mesothelium regenerated due to high mitotic activity and increased amount of polynuclear cells. The latter are formed as a result of amitotic and mitotic division of the nucleus without plasmotomy. The distribution of cells at the stage of DNA synthesis and mitosis in all the parietal peritoneum speaks of the absence of special proliferation zones.
Characterization of a functional angiotensin IV receptor on coronary microvascular endothelial cells.	A new class of angiotensin receptors has recently been identified that exhibits both high specificity and affinity for the hexapeptide (3-8) fragment of angiotensin II, angiotensin IV (AngIV). Here, utilizing radioligand binding, we fully characterize AngIV binding at the AT4 receptor on cultured bovine coronary venular endothelial cells (CVEC), and report that when AngIV and bFGF are presented simultaneously an enhancement of DNA synthesis results that is significantly greater than that produced by bFGF alone. The level of DNA synthesis was determined by the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into quiescent CVEC monolayers following exposure to 10 nM AngIV and 10 ng/ml bFGF for 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, or 11 days. A significant enhancement of DNA synthesis (P < 0.01) was seen following 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 days exposure. In addition, AngIV does not bind to bFGF or heparin, and conversely, bFGF is unable to compete for AngIV binding which suggests that this synergistic response is mediated by independent receptors for these ligands. Results of this study indicate that microvascular endothelial cells are significantly more responsive to bFGF in the presence of nanomolar concentrations of AngIV.
Effects of copper-based dental casting alloys on two lymphocyte cell lines and the secretion of interleukin 2 and IgG.	In the oral environment, gingival lymphocytes are involved in maintaining the local immune defense of periodontal tissues. The corrosion rates of copper-based dental casting alloys and the accumulation of corrosion products in host gingiva raise concerns about the effects of these corrosion products on immune responses in the oral cavity. The aim of this study ws to investigate the hypothesis that immune function may be altered by copper dental alloy corrosion products. In vitro cell culture studies were used to analyze the effects of three copper-based dental alloys on a T-cell and B-cell line and their secretion of soluble immune mediators (IL-2) and effectors (IgG), respectively. Results of this study revealed that corrosion products released from copper alloys in 24 h have the ability to reduce cellular viability, alter proliferation, and modulate the production of soluble immune mediators. These results support the hypothesis that copper dental ally corrosion products may alter immune responses and thereby contribute to a variety of dental pathological conditions.
In vivo cell synchrony in the L1210 mouse leukaemia studied with 5-fluorouracil or 5-fluorouracil followed by cold thymidine infusion.	[3H]-TdR and [3]-udR labelling indices and mitotic indices were followed in tumour-bearing mice after application of either 5-fluorouracil (FU) alone or of FU followed by cold TdR infusion. With FU alone, accumulation of cells at the beginning of S was found, but there was no indication of a synchronous passage of the accumulated cells further round the cycle. When FU injection was followed by cold TdR infusion, a synchronous passage of the accumulated cells through the cycle was observed. However, there was a large variation in the response of individual mice to this treatment.
Induction of serum stimulation and plasma cell proliferation during chemotherapy of multiple myeloma.	Sequential sera from 45 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and from 6 patients with solid tumors but normal bone marrows who received cyclophosphamide, 15 mg/kg/day for 4 days, were assayed for their effects on tritiated thymidine (3H-TdR) incorporation by normal bone marrow cells and malignant plasma cells. Pretreatment sera from 23 of the 45 patients with MM inhibited normal marrow cell proliferation relative to the effects of normal sera. Of these 45 sera, 30 inhibited plasma cell proliferation. This humoral inhibition was overcome by the induction of humoral stimulation at a predictable time during chemotherapy. The sera obtained sequentially from patients with MM and patients with  normal bone marrows increased 3H-TdR uptake by both cell types by days 12-15 of therapy. Sequential changes in malignant marrow plasma cell 3H-TdR labeling indices paralleled the changes in serum activity, with an increased tumor cell growth fraction occurring at the time of peak serum stimulatory activity. The relationship between serum stimulation and malignant plasma cell proliferation was confirmed in vitro.
Measurement of 'unscheduled' DNA synthesis in HeLa cells by liquid scintillation counting after carcinogen treatment.	HeLa cells, conditioned in an arginine-deficient medium to reduce DNA S-phase synthesis, were treated with one of four ultimate carcinogens (MNNG, BrMBA, N-acetoxy AAF and EMS) and one precarcinogen, AFB1. All treated cells preferentially incorporated [3H] thymidine as a result of DNA repair monitored by liquid scintillation counting of the extracted DNA. The cells showed some capacity to activate AFB1, but repair synthesis was much increased if a rat liver mixed function oxidase preparation was also present. At equimolar concentrations the various carcinogens stimulated different amounts of DNA repair; this variation was not proportional to the carcinogenic potency of the chemicals tested. Reasons for this are discussed as is the use of this technique as a screen for chemical carcinogens.
Differential cytotoxicity between transformed and normal human cells with combinations of aminonucleoside and hydroxyurea.	Normal human WI-38 cells can be protected from killing by hydroxyurea if proliferation is arrested during drug treatment. This protection was demonstrated both in cells arrested by density-dependent inhibition and by 3'-amino-3'deoxy-N6,N6-dimethyladenosine (puromycin aminonucleoside). In contrast, VA-13 cells (a simian virus 40-transformed clone of WI-38) were not arrested under these conditions, and continued to be sensitive to hydroxyurea. These results suggest that a search for agents that selectively and reversibly inhibit normal cycling human cells might lead to an enhancement of differential tumor toxicity.
Stimulation of DNA synthesis by human placental lactogen or insulin in organ cultures of benign human breast tumors.	Twenty biopsy specimens of benign human breast tumors obtained from 20 patients were processed into small slices and individually cultured for 2 days in Medium 199. The medium was supplemented with bovine insulin (5.0 microgram/ml), human placental lactogen (HPL) (10.0 microgram/ml), or ovine prolactin (10.0 microgram/ml). Four hr prior to termination, [3H]thymidine was added to the culture medium to determine DNA synthesis. The addition of insulin to the culture medium consistently increased: (a) the mean incorporation of [3H]thymidine into chemically extracted DNA (p less than 0.05); (b) the mean number of [3H]thymidine-radiolabeled epithelial cells (p less than 0.05), and (c) the mean number of epithelial cells bearing mitotic figures. The addition of HPL increased the mean number of [3H]thymidine-radiolabeled epithelial cells (p less than 0.05) and the mean number of epithelial cells bearing mitotic figures (p less than 0.05). [3H]Thymidine incorporation into chemically extracted DNA was also increased when HPL was added to the medium, although this increase did not quite achieve the 5% level of significance. The addition of ovine prolactin to the culture medium did not have any significant effect on DNA synthesis. This study provides evidence that insulin and HPL are direct stimulants of DNA synthesis of the epithelium contained in benign human breast tumors.
Application and efficiency of scintillation autoradiography for Drosophila polytene chromosomes.	A rapid method of autoradiography using the scintillation cocktail (Toluene and scintillation fluid, Omnifluor) has been described earlier. Its application and efficiency have been tested using both 3H-thymidine and 3H-urine. The optimum time required for processing the autoradiograms has been found to be 24 h dry exposure followed by 48 h in the scintillation mixture. Detailed analysis of the autoradiograms with 3H-uridine reveals that with the rapid method the 100% level of labelling index is reached by 48 h while with the conventional method the same level is reached by 10 to 12 days of dry exposure. The maximum grain density is reached by 16 to 17 days by the conventional method. While by the rapid method, the maximum grain density is approximately 80% of the control, this grain density is reached by 48 h (plus 24 h of dry exposure) and thereafter forms a plateau. With Toluene alone the grain density never exceeds 20%. The background is also relatively low and less variable in the O-T-processed autoe scintillation fluid plays the key role in augmenting the labelling. Furthermore, although the maximum grain density by the rapid technique is 80% of the control, the grain density obtained by the rapid method gives less coincidence and superimposition of grains. On the other hand, with 3H-thymidine, although all labelling patterns could be resolved, the labelling index (i.e., percent of labelled cells) is about 40% at 48 h (plus 24 h) and about 79.5% at 96 h with the rapid method, as compared to about 30% and 44% with the conventional method at the two time points, respectively. Only with 16--17 days' dry exposure the 3H-thymidine labelling index increases to 67%. The frequency of the initial patterns (DD-2C) which are usually less frequency, has been found to have increased with the rapid method. No difference in grain density of labelling of 3H-thymidine could be detected between the rapid method and the conventional method. The resolution of grains also seems to be better by the rapid method, due probably to smaller size and lack of superimposition of grains. Other applications, advantages and limitations have been discussed.
Effect of polyene macrolide antibiotics on invertebrate tissue culture cells.	The effect of amphotericin B (AB) and amphotericin B methyl ester (AME) on viability and DNA synthesis in three insect cell lines, Trichoplusia ni (Tn) Carpocapsa pomonella 169 (Cp) and Aedes aegypti (Aa), has been evaluated. In all cases AME was less toxic than AB and inhibited DNA synthesis to a lesser degree than AB. However, the three cell lines differed in their response to the two polyene macrolide antibiotic preparations. Tn and Aa cell responded in a similar manner when exposed to either AME or AB, whereas Cp cells were more sensitive to both antibiotics than Tn or Aa cells.
Differential interleukin-6 (IL-6) responses of three established myeloma cell lines in the presence of soluble human IL-6 receptors.	We investigated the possible influence of recombinant (r) sIL-6R on the growth of three IL-6 non-responsive or weakly IL-6 responsive long-term myeloma cell lines. The three cell lines chosen for the study (U266, L363 and Fravel) all expressed gp130 but differed in their expression of IL-6R and IL-6. mRNA analysis by northern blot and reverse transcriptase polymerase reaction showed that the cell line U266 was the only one that expressed IL-6 mRNA. Only U266 and L363 expressed IL-6R mRNA. 125I-rIL-6 binding studies and FACS analysis, using biotinylated IL-6 and antibodies directed against the IL-6R and gp130, showed corresponding results on the protein level. Addition of rsIL-6R resulted in induction of IL-6 responsiveness in L363 cells, whereas the 3H-thymidine incorporation of the cell lines U266 and Fravel was unaffected by rsIL-6R addition. In conclusion, the IL-6 unresponsive growth of several long-term myeloma cell lines in vitro can in some, but not all cases, be due to a deficiency in exogenous sIL-6R.
Lymphoproliferative responses to antigens mediated by human pulmonary alveolar macrophages.	We evaluated the ability of human pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAMs) to mediate (3H)-thymidine incorporation by blood lymphocytes severely depleted of monocytes when stimulated with soluble microbial and allogeneic lymphocyte antigens. Low (less than 2%) concentrations of PAM's from nonsmokers or blood monocytes did not support optimal responses. Over all, at greater than or equal to 10% concentrations, PAM's from nonsmokers supported higher responses than monocytes. At less than or equal to 10% concentrations, PAM's from heavy cigarette smokers mediated significantly less incorporation than did similar concentrations of PAM's from nonsmokers (p less than 0.05). The findings indicate that PAM's from healthy nonsmokers are functionally competent macrophages in terms of mediating lymphoproliferation in cultures stimulated with antigens. This classical macrophage function is impaired with cigarette smoking.
Differences in agonist-independent and -dependent 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor-mediated cell division.	Previous studies have shown that agonist activation of the 5-hydroxytryptamineC (5-HT2C) receptor expressed in NIH-3T3 fibroblasts results in development of a transformed phenotype. In light of recent evidence from our laboratory demonstrating constitutive 5-HT2C receptor activity, we examined the contribution of this agonist-independent activity to basal cell division. 5-HT2C receptor ligands modulated [3H]thymidine incorporation, DNA amounts, and cell number in serum-starved NIH-3T3 fibroblasts transfected with 5-HT2C receptor cDNA. Three classes of 5-HT2C receptor ligands were distinguished in transfected, but not nontransfected, fibroblasts. Basal [3H]thymidine incorporation was increased by agonists and decreased by inverse agonists, whereas neutral antagonists had little or no effect alone. Neutral antagonists did, however, block the effects of both agonists and inverse agonists. The rank order of potencies of inverse agonists to decrease basal [3H]thymidine incorporation was consistent with their rank order to decrease basal 5-HT2C receptor-mediated phosphoinositide hydrolysis. However, two antagonists previously classified as inverse agonists based on their ability to eliminate basal phosphoinositide hydrolysis did not elicit comparable reductions in basal [3H]thymidine incorporation. For example, mesulergine had no effect on basal cell division, even though it eliminates the phosphoinositide hydrolysis response. Pertussis toxin, which inactivates G proteins in the Gi and Go families, had no effect on basal [3H]thymidine incorporation or basal phosphoinositide hydrolysis but partially inhibited these responses when elicited by an agonist. Thus, agonist occupation of the 5-HT2C receptor apparently activates different or additional G proteins compared with constitutive 5-HT2C receptor activation. In conclusion, our findings suggest that constitutively active 5-HT2C receptors stimulate cell division in transfected fibroblasts in the absence of an agonist. In addition, the 5HT2C receptor may use multiple signaling pathways to mediate its effects.
Effect of age on nodule induction by azaserine and DNA synthesis in rat pancreas.	The efficacy of various azaserine treatment durations was evaluated with respect to induction of atypical acinar cell nodules in Wistar rat pancreas and was related to animal age and rate of pancreatic DNA synthesis during growth. The sensitivity to nodule induction was maximal in postnatal rats when the rate of pancreatic DNA synthesis was high, whereas treatment of weanlings was less effective and treatment of mature rats was least effective. When weaned growing rats were given 1, 3, or 5 weekly injections of 30 mg azaserine/kg, the number of nodules induced was proportional to the number of injections. A single dose at this level did not induce detectable pancreatic necrosis or inflammation; therefore, DNA synthesis due to regeneration was probably not a major factor in the initiation of nodules. We concluded that multiple daily injections of [3H]thymidine during the first or second postnatal week provided DNA of sufficiently high specific activity for use in DNA repair and biochemical toxicity studies.
Stimulation of DNA synthesis in the lungs of hamsters exposed intermittently to nitrogen dioxide.	Stimulation of [3H] thymidine incorporation in the lungs of hamsters exposed singly and repeatedly to 10 ppm NO2 was studied. Within 24 hr of the first exposure to NO2, the response was characterized by a marked increase in [3H] thymidine labeling in the bronchi, bronchioles, and alveolar ducts, but not in the trachea or the peripheral alveoli. If, after the first NO2 exposure, subsequent exposures were repeated daily, no further stimulation of [3H] thymidine incorporation was observed in any part of the respiratory tract. However, if the interval between the first and subsequent exposures was 2-3 days rather than 1 day, stimulation of [3H] thymidine incorporation was observed in the bronchi, bronchioles, and alveolar ducts for up to 21 NO2 exposures. A significantly greater increase in [3H] thymidine incorporation was observed when the interval between subsequent exposures was extended to 7 days. However, no repeated exposure, whether at 2-3 or 7 day intervals, was as effective as the first NO2 exposure in stimulating incorporation of [3H] thymidine.
A common amino acid polymorphism in insulin receptor substrate-1 causes impaired insulin signaling. Evidence from transfection studies.	Insulin receptor substrates-1 (IRS-1) is the major cytoplasmic substrate of the insulin and IGF-1 receptors. Recent studies have identified multiple sequence variants of IRS-1, especially in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. In the present study, we have examined insulin-stimulated processes in 32D(IR) cells, a myeloid progenitor cell stably overexpressing the insulin receptor, transfected with wild-type human-IRS-1 or the most common human variant of IRS-1 in which glycine 972 is replaced by arginine. As compared to wild-type IRS-1, insulin stimulation of cells transfected with mutant IRS-1 exhibited a 32% decrease in incorporation of [3H]thymidine into DNA (P = 0.002), a 36% decrease in IRS-1 associated phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase activity (P = 0.004) and a 25% decrease in binding of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI 3-kinase to IRS-1 (P = 0.002). There was also a tendency for a decrease in Grb2 binding to IRS-1 and insulin-stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase activity, however, these were not statistically significant. The changes occurred with no change in insulin receptor or IRS-1 tyrosine phosphorylation. These data indicate that the mutation in codon 972 in IRS-1 impairs insulin-stimulated signaling, especially along the PI 3-kinase pathway, and may contribute to insulin resistance in normal and diabetic populations.
Macromolecular synthesis in human fibroblasts at 37 degrees and 42 degrees C during aging in vitro.	A normal strain of human skin fibroblasts was pulse labelled at 42 degrees and 37 degrees C during intervals of the in vitro lifespan with 3H-thymidine, 3H-uridine and 14C-phenylalanine, precursors of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis, respectively. No increased heat lability could be detected in the relative profiles of precursor incorporation at the two temperatures until terminal stages of passage when a minor increase in heat lability appeared in RNA and protein synthesis. Early passage cells, grown in the presence of the substrate analogues, p-fluorophenylalanine or 5-fluorouracil, showed a moderate increase in relative heat lability but comparable patterns were not evident in drug-free cultures, even at terminal stages of passage. Although the results indicate that defects exist in enzyme pathways for macromolecular synthesis at terminal stages of growth and in the presence of analogues, they do not support the hypothesis that such defects are causal to the onset of cellular aging in vitro.
Effect of maternal malnutrition on matrix cell proliferation in the cerebrum of mouse embryo: an autoradiographic study.	Thirty pregnant mice were undernourished by providing low protein diets (PM) or providing approximately one-third their normal diets (PCM) for 9 days from the 8th to the 16th day of gestation. Another 15 pregnant mice, which were fed a normal diet, served as the control. On the 16th day of gestation, all animals were injected with a single does of [3H]thymidine and were killed one by one at 1- or 2-hr intervals. Mean litter size was statistically insignificant between the control group and two malnourished groups. There was, however, a significant difference in mean body weight between the control group and two malnourished groups (P less than 0.005). The cerebral cortex at this stage of development consisted of three different layers, i.e., the cortical plate, the migratory zone, and the matrix layer. The width of the cortical plate of the malnourished embryos was significantly smaller (P less than 0.001). There was, however, no significant difference in width of the migratory zone between the control and the malnourished groups. The width of the matrix layer in PM was significantly smaller (P less than 0.001), but that of PCM showed no significant difference from the control (P greater than 0.1). Coronal section of the brains of the embryos were processed for autoradiography. Labeled cells were found almost exclusively at the matrix layer surrounding the lateral ventricels. Labeling index counted in the matrix layer after 1 or 2 hr of [3H]thymidine injection indicated that more than 30% of the cells in this layer were always synthesizing DNA in each group of embryos. The generation times of the matrix cell, precursor of the neurons, in the matrix layer were approximately 18.5 hr in the control and 21.5 hr and 21.8 hr in the malnourished embryos, thus indicating about 3 hr of prolongation in the latter. DNA synthetic time was about 6.5 hr in the control and 7.0 hr and 7.0 hr in the two malnourished groups. The postduplication time was about 2.5 hr in the control and 3.0 hr and 3.5 hr in the malnourished. The preduplication time was about 8.8 hr in the control and 10.6 hr and 10.3 hr in the malnourished.
C-type natriuretic peptide as an autocrine/paracrine regulator of osteoblast. Evidence for possible presence of bone natriuretic peptide system.	C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is a local regulator in the brain and vascular wall. We present data to demonstrate the production and action of CNP in the osteoblast. CNP increased cGMP production, far more potently than atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in an osteoblastic cell line, MC3T3-E1. Since ANP and CNP are the ligands for two particulate guanylate cyclases, guanylate cyclase-A (GC-A) and guanylate cyclase-B (GC-B), respectively, these results reveal the expression of GC-B in MC3T3-E1. In addition, CNP mRNA and CNP-like immunoreactivity were detected in cell extracts from MC3T3-E1 and its culture medium, respectively. Both CNP and 8-bromo cGMP dose-dependently decreased [3H]thymidine uptake, without affecting alkaline phosphatase activity. These results indicate that CNP is a novel autocrine/paracrine regulator of osteoblast and suggest the presence of "bone natriuretic peptide system."
Heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor is an autocrine growth factor for rat gastric epithelial cells.	We examined the biological action and expression of heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF) in a rat gastric mucosal cell line, RGM1. HB-EGF stimulated DNA synthesis of RGM1 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Mitogenic effect of HB-EGF was as potent as that of other known mitogens for gastric epithelial cells, such as hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha. Northern blot analysis showed that RGM1 cells as well as rat gastric mucosal tissue expressed a 2.5-kilobase transcript of HB-EGF. Not only HB-EGF and TGF-alpha but also HGF caused a rapid induction of HB-EGF mRNA in the cells. Treatment with heparitinase which destroys heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) or with chlorate which inhibits sulfation of HSPG diminished [3H]thymidine incorporation of RGM1 cells in serum-free medium. In addition, a synthetic peptide corresponding to the heparin-binding domain of HB-EGF inhibits the DNA synthesis of RGM1 cells in serum-free medium in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that HB-EGF is an autocrine and paracrine growth factor for gastric epithelial cells and may play significant roles in mucosal repair of the stomach in cooperation with other growth factors.
Characterization of foldback sequences in hamster DNA using electron microsocpy.	Foldback sequences in nuclear DNA from cultured Hamster fibroblasts (BHK-21/C13 cells) have been characterized by electron microscopy. One half of the structures observed when denatured hamster DNA is allowed to anneal in the range O less than Cot1 less than 1 x 10(-4) M sec result from the annealing of inverted sequences forming foldback DNA. The remainder have a probable bimolecular origin.  arising from rapidly-annealing sequences of satellite-like complexity. The average length of the inverted sequences in the foldback molecules is about 0.9 kilobases. There  is estimated to be about 42,000 such sequences (21,000 pairs) in the hamster genome, approximately 45% of which form looped structures with a mean loop length of 1.74 kilobases. Contrary to previous reports, binding of the renatured duplex molecules to hydroxyapatite results in a poor recovery of structures containing identifiable foldback sequences, due to preferential enrichment of the bound fraction with duplexes formed by intermolecular annealing.
Dexamethasone enhances the osteogenic effects of fluoride in human TE85 osteosarcoma cells in vitro.	The in vitro osteogenic effects of fluoride have not always been consistently observed in human bone cells. The present study sought to test if dexamethasone (Dex) could potentiate the action of fluoride to increase the detectability of the stimulatory effects of fluoride on [3H]thymidine incorporation, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) specific activity, collagen synthesis, and osteocalcin secretion in human TE85 osteosarcoma cells. Neither Dex at 10(-10)-10(-6) M or fluoride at a mitogenic dose (100 microM) had any consistent stimulatory effects on thymidine incorporation. When the cells were treated with both agents simultaneously, significant and highly reproducible stimulations were observed. The mitogenic effects of the two agents were confirmed with cell number counting. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed a significant interaction (P < 0.001) between fluoride and Dex on cell proliferation. The enhancing effect of Dex on [3H]thymidine incorporation was not due to a shift of the optimal dose response of fluoride. Though fluoride alone or Dex alone also had no consistent effect on ALP specific activity, the co-treatment with fluoride and Dex for 24 hours produced significant (P < 0.001, ANOVA) stimulation in ALP specific activity. Fluoride alone had no consistent effect on collagen synthesis and on 1, 25(OH)2D3-dependent osteocalcin secretion, whereas Dex treatment consistently inhibited these two osteoblastic parameters in a dose-dependent manner. However, both the collagen synthesis and osteocalcin secretion rates were significantly higher (P < 0.001 ANOVA for each) when the cells were co-treated with Dex and fluoride (100 microM) than when they were treated with Dex alone. Thus, these data indicate that the response in collagen synthesis and osteocalcin secretion to fluoride stimulation was more readily observed in the presence of Dex than in its absence. ANOVA analysis revealed that the interaction between fluoride and Dex on collagen synthesis, but not the 1,25(OH)2D3-dependent osteocalcin secretion, was significant (P < 0.02). In summary, we have demonstrated for the first time that in TE85 cells (1) Dex potentiated the effects of fluoride on cell proliferation, ALP specific activity, and collagen synthesis; (2) while Dex at 10(-7)-10(-6) M alone inhibited the collagen synthesis and at 10(-9)-10(-6) M reduced osteocalcin secretion, Dex at 10(-8)-10(-6) M significantly stimulated the proliferation of TE85 cells; and (3) Dex interacted with fluoride to increase the percentage of experiments showing an osteogenic action of fluoride. In conclusion, the in vitro osteogenic actions of fluoride in human TE85 cells are more consistently observed in the presence than in the absence of Dex.
Selective up-regulation of alpha 1-chimaerin mRNA in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells by K+/-induced depolarisation.	The expression of alpha 1-chimaerin, which encodes a neuron-specific GTPase-activating protein for p21rac, is spatially and temporally regulated in vivo. In vitro, expression of the mRNA of both alpha 1-chimaerin and its alternative spliced form, alpha 2-chimaerin, was up-regulated when human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells underwent neuronal-type differentiation in a serum-free medium. KCl-induced membrane depolarisation also specifically up-regulated alpha 1-chimaerin mRNA expression in SK-N-SH cells at the transcriptional level. The up-regulation of alpha 1-chimaerin expression by membrane depolarisation is not an immediate early event, and occurs 3 h after KCl treatment. It does not require de novo protein synthesis. The increase in calcium influx via the L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel as the result of depolarisation is a key event leading to the up-regulation of alpha 1-chimaerin mRNA. alpha 1-Chimaerin expression was also found to respond positively to the hypertonic osmolarity changes. These results suggest that in vivo expression of alpha 1-chimaerin, a potential signal transduction molecule, may be regulated by neuronal/synaptic activity.
Whey protein stimulated the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells.	We examined the effects of whey protein on osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells. This protein caused dose-dependent increases in [3H]thymidine incorporation and DNA content in the cells. It also increased the total protein and hydroxyproline contents in the cells. These activities were heat resistant when the protein was heated at 75 degrees C to 90 degrees C for 10 min. Heat-treated whey protein was first fractionated on a Mono S column, and the active fraction (basic protein fraction) was then applied to Superose 12. The molecular weights of the active components were approximately 10,000 and 14,000 Da, as determined with gel filtration. The inner solution of an everted gut-sac incubated in a solution of intact BP (basic protein), pepsin-digested BP or pepsin/pancreatin-digested BP also stimulated the [3H]thymidine incorporation. Thus these active components can possibly permeate or be absorbed by the intestines. We propose the possibility that the active component in the whey protein plays an important role in bone formation by activating osteoblasts.
Collagen synthesis and cell growth in chick embryo fibroblasts: influence of colchicine, cytochalasin B and concanavalin A.	Culturing of chick embryo fibroblasts in the presence of colchicine or cytochalasin B with and without concanavalin A (Con A) demonstrated that colchicine induces greater neosynthesis of endocellular type I collagen, whereas cytochalasin B boosts secretion. The effects are modified by the addition of Con A, which increases alpha 2 more than a1 chain production. 3H-thymidine incorporation is unaffected by cytochalasin B, but stimulated by colchicine. Con A neutralizes the stimulatory action of colchicine. It would therefore seem that Con A exerts transmembrane control of effects induced by colchicine and cytochalasin B by binding to cell surface receptors and so triggering rearrangement of the cytoskeleton.
Application of laser cytometry to the analysis of immunologically induced in vitro lymphocyte responsiveness.	This study defines an assay (laser analysis) that is a significant advance in our ability to quantitate and analyze immunologically induced in vitro lymphocyte responsiveness. Laser analysis is demonstrated to parallel radionucleotide incorporation (3H-thymidine) in terms of kinetic pattern, dose response characteristics, and statistical accuracy while exeeding radionucleotide incorporation in sensitivity. Direct quantitation of lymphocyte responsiveness, in terms of cellular proliferation, disclosed that substantial numbers of small lymphocytes were produced during in vitro stimulation with mitogen (concanavalin A) or antigen (streptokinase-streptodornase) in addition to the expected increase in lymphoblasts. The magnitude of this "total cellular response" (lymphocytes plus lymphoblasts) was found to be similar for antigen and mitogen stimulation, a finding not suggested by routine radionucleotide incorporation or morphological assays.
Application of a chromogenic bioassay procedure for the measurement of the proliferation of endothelial cells in vitro under the influence of the effects of steroid hormones and growth factors.	Development of in vitro procedures which permit the measurement of the synergistic biological influences of polypeptide growth factors and steroid hormones on cellular processes represents an important objective in reaching an understanding of the molecular basis of many physiological events, including those associated with the proliferation of endothelial cells and the subsequent angiogenesis which occurs, for example, during the estrous cycle and wound repair. The present investigations were undertaken to examine the use of nonradioisotopic procedures for the bioassay of polypeptide growth factors, such as basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), known to exert effects on the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells, and to overcome some of the recognised sensitivity limitations with endothelial cell proliferation assays based on the [3H]thymidine uptake methods due to the cell passage number and culture conditions. The experimental results confirm these objectives with establishment of a simplified chromogenic procedure for the sensitive determination of the effects of the steroid hormones, estradiol and progesterone, on the proliferation of endothelial cells in culture, either directly or via mediation of the effects of bFGF at low concentration levels. This procedure has provided experimental data suggesting that a hitherto unrecognised synergy may exist between these steroids and bFGF, with both estradiol and progesterone significantly antagonising the bFGF-stimulated proliferative response with bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC) in culture. Progesterone alone was also capable of directly stimulating BAEC proliferation, albeit transiently. Neither estradiol or progesterone affected the proliferation of the control 3T3 fibroblast cell population, in the presence or absence of a stimulatory dose of bFGF.
Triplex DNA in the nucleus: direct binding of triplex-specific antibodies and their effect on transcription, replication and cell growth.	Jel 318 and Jel 466 are triplex-specific monoclonal antibodies which previously have been shown to bind to cell nuclei and chromosomes by immunofluorescence. Their interaction was further characterized by two methods. First, isolated intact nuclei were encapsulated in agarose. Both antibodies showed significant binding to the nuclei which could be inhibited by adding competing triplex DNA but not by adding Escherichia coli DNA to which the antibodies do not bind. Both triplex-specific antibodies inhibited replication and transcription in the nuclei by about 20%. Secondly, the antibodies were introduced into synchronized myeloma cells by osmotic shock of pynocytic vesicles. Cell-cycle studies showed that the myeloma cells had an S phase of about 10 h and a doubling time of about 20 h. The cells were synchronized with thymidine and both cell growth and cell death were monitored. Introduction of the triplex-specific antibodies caused a marked decrease in cell growth without a significant increase in cell death. The effectiveness of the antibodies was improved by the addition of chloroquine diphosphate which inhibits degradation in the lysosomes. As a control, introduction of an antibody specific for a bacterial protein had little effect. In synchronized cells, inhibition of proliferation reached a maximum at 7 to 13 h after the release from the thymidine block. Thus, cells are most sensitive to the triplex-binding antibodies at the end of S phase and during G2. This result is consistent with the view that triplexes are involved in chromosome condensation/decondensation.
Regulation of proliferation of LLC-MK2 cells by nucleosides and nucleotides: the role of ecto-enzymes.	1. Using the incorporation of [methyl-3H]thymidine as a proliferation marker, the effects of various nucleosides and nucleotides on endothelial LLC-MK2 cells were studied. We found that ATP, ADP, AMP and adenosine in concentrations of 10 microM or higher stimulate the proliferation of these cells. 2. Inhibition of ecto-ATPase (EC 3.6.1.15), 5'-nucleotidase (EC 3.1.3.5) or alkaline phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1) significantly diminished the stimulatory effect of ATP, indicating that the effect is primarily caused by adenosine and not by adenine nucleotides. Also, the effect depends only on extracellular nucleosides, since inhibition of nucleoside uptake by dipyridamole has no influence on proliferation. 3. Other purine nucleotides and nucleosides (ITP, GTP, inosine and guanosine) also stimulate cell proliferation, while pyrimidine nucleotides and nucleosides (CTP, UTP, cytidine and uridine) inhibit proliferation. Furthermore, the simultaneous presence of adenosine and any of the other purine nucleosides is not entirely additive in its effect on cell proliferation. At the same time any pyrimidine nucleoside, when added together with adenosine, has the same inhibitory effect as the pyrimidine nucleoside alone. 4. Apparently these proliferative effects are neither caused by any pharmacologically known P1-purinoceptor, nor are they mediated by cyclic AMP, cyclic GMP, or D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate as second messenger, nor by extracellular Ca2+. 5. Therefore, we conclude that various purine and pyrimidine nucleosides can influence the proliferation of LLC-MK2 cells by acting on putative purinergic and pyrimidinergic receptors not previously described.
Concanavalin A binding to the epithelial surface of the developing mouse olfactory placode.	Concanavalin A (Con A), a lectin binding to mannosyl and glucosyl residues of glycoproteins and glycolipids, was used to study the appearance of carbohydrate-rich cell surface material on the olfactory placode and nasal processes which contribute to formidine was also used in an attempt to correlate changes in labeling index with formation of the olfactory placode and nasal processes. The cell surface of the early frontonasal epithelium binds Con A very little, if at all, but Con A binding was observed when the olfactory placode could be identified as a plate of cuboidal cells that exhibited a reduced labeling index. During the period of formation of the nasal processes, Con A binding was observed on the facial epithelium including the presumptive contact region. There was also a decline in the labeling index throughout primary palate formation. This study provides three criteria by which the olfactory placode can be identified: a morphological change of placode cells to a cuboidal shape, a synthesis or rearrangement of surface coat material that binds Con A, and a reduced labeling index.
Myogenic cell formation in regenerating rat skeletal muscle injured by mincing. II. An autoradiographic study.	Myonuclei and satellite cell nuclei were differentially labelled with 3H-thymidine in uninjured skeletal muscle of young rats and then traced autoradiographically at intervals after mincing the radioactive hindlimb muscles to determine the source of regenerating presumptive myoblasts. Labelled nuclei were detected by light microscopic examination of 1-micron thick autoradiographs and identified by electron microscopic examination of an adjacent section. Repeated injections of 3H-thymidine during fetal and neonatal development, followed by a 4- to 5-week maturation period, resulted in labelling of 20% of the myonuclei. Satellite cells were not observed to be labelled in this series. Eight to sixteen hours after mincing, 20% of the pyknotic myonuclei were labelled, whereas none of the regenerating presumptive myoblasts appeared labelled. A single injection of 3H-thymidine administered to 18-day-old rats, followed by sacrifice within ten hours, resulted in labelling of 23% of the satellite cell nuclei. Myonuclei were not observed to be labelled in this series. Eight to sixteen hours after mincing, silver grains were detected over both pyknotic and regenerating cell nuclei. These experiments indicate that many satellite cells survive muscle injury and transplantation to become regenerating myogenic cells at a time when most, if not all, myonuclei are undergoing pyknosis.
Stimulation of human lymphocytes in vitro by purified autologous DNA.	Addition of increasing concentrations of autologous DNA, but not of allogeneic DNA, in culture media of human lymphocytes induces a parallel increase of thymidine incorporation into leucocytes and of lymphocytes transformation into blast cells. Specificity of DNA action was analysed by different DNase and RNase treatments. DNase or RNase alone neither stimulates blastic transformation of lymphocytes and incorporation of thymidine into leucocytes, nor inhibits PHA-induced stimulations of these cells. However Dnase--but almost not RNase--clearly inhibits thymidine incorporation and blast transformation induced by autologous DNA.
Antitumor activity of menogaril alone, and in combination against human mammary cancer models in mice and rats.	Menogaril is an antitumor agent different from other anthracyclines in being active after oral administration. To predict its clinical effectiveness by this route against human breast cancer, we compared its antitumor activity against breast cancer in experimental animals with that of injected Adriamycin. Menogaril had half the much antitumor activity of Adriamycin against human mammary cancer cell lines. Menogaril given orally also had a antitumor activity against mammary cancer caused by 7,12-dimethyl-benz[a]anthracene in rats comparable with that of Adriamycin. The high concentration of menogaril in tumor tissue seemed to contribute to its effectiveness. Of several combinations of cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, menogaril, and 5-fluorouracil, the combination of cyclophosphamide, menogaril, and 5-fluorouracil was most effective against mouse leukemia L1210 and human breast cancer xenografts in mice. This combination might have antitumor activity against breast cancer superior to that of the therapy currently of first choice (cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, and 5-fluorouracil) in the clinic.
Regulation of cartilage glycosaminoglycan synthesis in the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, by 3,3',5-tri-iodo-L-thyronine and IGF-I.	The actions of 3,3',5-tri-iodo-L-thyronine (T3) and recombinant human IGF-I (rhIGF-I) as well as their interaction on cartilage growth in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were examined. Uptake of 3H-methyl thymidine and 35S-sulfate by isolated branchial cartilage was measured as a marker for chondrocyte proliferation and sulfated glycosaminoglycan synthesis respectively. When T3 (1.0 microgram/g) was injected intraperitoneally, plasma T3 levels reached a transient peak after 1 day and decreased rapidly thereafter. Sulfate and thymidine uptake were not affected by T3 at 1 and 3 days post-injection, but at 6 days post-injection both were significantly higher in T3-injected fish than those in controls. The stimulatory effects of a T3 injection on sulfate and thymidine uptake were dose-dependent over the range of 0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 micrograms/g. In vitro exposure of cartilage to T3 (0.075, 0.75, 7.5, 75 and 750 nM) for 6 days resulted in dose-dependent stimulation of sulfate uptake, with a maximum response at 7.5 nM and higher. T3 exposure (7.5 nM) for 2 or 3 days also increased sulfate uptake, but only slightly. Thymidine uptake was not clearly affected by T3. In vitro addition of rhIGF-I (0.075, 0.75 and 7.5 nM) increased sulfate uptake, but not thymidine uptake, dose-dependently. Compared with T3, rhIGF-I induced a greater maximum level of sulfate uptake: at 7.5 nM rhIGF-I increased the uptake 17-fold whereas T3 increased the uptake fourfold. When T3 (0.075, 0.75 or 7.5 nM) and rhIGF-I (0.1 or 1.0 nM) were added together, stimulative actions of T3 on sulfate uptake were largely additive to those of rhIGF-I. The results indicate that T3 as well as IGF-I are important modulators of sulfated glycosaminoglycan synthesis in rainbow trout cartilage.
Stabilization of triple-stranded oligonucleotide complexes: use of probes containing alternating phosphodiester and stereo-uniform cationic phosphoramidate linkages.	Pyrimidine oligonucleotides containing alternating anionic and stereo-uniform cationic N-(dimethylamino-propyl)phosphoramidate linkages [e.g. d(T+T-)7T, d(T+T-)2(T+C-)5T and (U'+U'-)7dT, where U' is 2'-O-methyluridine)] are shown to bind to complementary double-stranded DNA segments in 0.1 M NaCl at pH 7 to form triple-stranded complexes with the pyrimidine.purine.pyrimidine motif. For each of the sequences investigated, one stereoisomer bound with higher affinity, and the other stereoisomer with lower affinity, than the corresponding all-phosphodiester oligonucleotide. The stereoisomer of d(T+T-)7T that interacted weakly with a dT.dA target in 0.1 M NaCl formed a novel dA.dA.dT triple-stranded complex with poly(dA) or d(Al5C4A15) in 1 M NaCl; in contrast, the stereoisomer that bound strongly to the dT.dA target failed to form a dA.dA.dT triple-stranded complex.
Cobalamin dependent methionine synthesis and methyl-folate-trap in human vitamin B12 deficiency.	The activity of methionine synthetase (MS) is important for the rapid growth of human haematopoietic cells and cultured lymphoblastoid cells. The MS reaction is the only known metabolic step in which both vitamin B12 and folate are essential in a single enzyme reaction. In vitamin B12 deficiency the MS activity in bone marrow cells is significantly lower than that in normal bone marrow. Free tetrahydrofolic acid (H4PteGlu) is normally liberated from its metabolically inactive storage form, 5-methyl-H4PteGlu (CH3H4PteGlu), in the cobalamin-dependent MS reaction. Thus, in vitamin B12 deficiency H4PteGlu is not available in sufficient concentration to maintain the de novo synthesis of thymidylate and purines, and accords with the methyl-folate-trap hypothesis. After treatment with amethopterin (Methotrexate), the incorporation of 3H-deoxyuridine into cellular DNA is reduced. In proliferating normal cells this effect of methotrexate can be prevented (and the cells rescued) with CH3-H4PteGlu or with CHO-H4PteGlu (5-formyl-H4PteGlu; Leucovorin). On the other hand, in vitamin B12 deficient bone marrow cells this so-called rescue-effect could only be achieved with CHO-H4PteGlu and not with CH3-H4PteGlu. These observations also support the hypothesis of the methyl-folate-trap in vitamin B12 deficiency. Decreased MS activity in vitamin B12 deficiency seems to be the essential metabolic fault, which is responsible for secondary alterations of folate metabolims. Thus, measurement of MS activity may allow direct functional assessment of vitamin B12 deficiency, at least with regard to DNA metabolism.
Scleroderma fibroblast phenotype is modulated by endothelial cell co-culture.	We established a co-culture system to investigate endothelial cell-fibroblast interaction in scleroderma (systemic sclerosis, SSc). Such a system allows reciprocal interaction between these cells. The pattern of phenotypic modulation for normal and SSc fibroblasts in co-culture was compared.
Earthworm coelomocytes in vitro.	Contamination and low viability of earthworm coelemocytes in tissue culture have delayed in vitro studies. Using penicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline and Amphotericin B, Lumbricus terrestis coelomocytes were maintained viable and uncontaminated for 10 days at 15degreesC in medium L-15 supplemented with 5 to 10% fetal bovine serum. The coelomocytes survived for at least 10 days with 85% viability as assessed by trypan blue exclusion assays and phagocytosis of heat-killed yeast. Studies on the thymidine uptake, however, were negative. With the involvement of coelomocytes in tissue graft rejection, in vitro techniques can now be applied to study their capacity in the immune response.
Cell proliferation in human cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.	Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin, a fairly slow-growing locally invasive tumor that occasionally matastasizes, was studied in 12 patients in vivo with the use of intralesional tritiated thymidine as a marker for cell proliferation kinetics. Analysis of the cell cycle of the germinative population revealed that the duration of S-phase was 12.5 hours; G1-phase, 28.8 hours; mitotic period (M-phase), 2 hours; G-pahse, 6.9 hours; and the total germinative cell cycle, 50.2 hours. The application of cell kinetics to programming chemotherapy for skin cancer with phase-specific cytotoxins was discussed.
A comparison of the mechanisms of action of VP-16-213 and podophyllotoxin.	A comparison of the mechanism of action of VP 16-213 and podophyllotoxin has revealed that although both drugs inhibit nucleoside uptake in HeLa cells, they exhibit other biological properties which are quite distinct. Podophyllotoxin inhibits microtubule assembly in vitro while VP-16-213 has no effect in this system. VP-16-213 induces single-stranded breaks in DNA in HeLa cells, an effect which may explain the cytoxicity of VP-16-213. In contrast to VP-16-213-treated cells, cells treated with podophyllotoxin maintain DNA integrity and show no evidence of single-stranded breaks.
Inhibitory effect of BQ-123 on endothelin-1-stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase and cell growth of rat vascular smooth muscle cells.	Studies have suggested that endothelin-1 (ET-1) activates cellular contraction and proliferation in rat vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). We examined whether an ET(A) receptor antagonist, BQ-123, inhibits the following cellular actions of ET-1 in rat VSMC: cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]i) mobilization, cellular contraction, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation, [3H]thymidine incorporation, and MTT reduction. [Ca2+]i was measured by the fluorescent method. MAP kinase activity was measured by the phosphorylation of a synthetic peptide of a specific substrate for MAP kinase. The specificity of BQ-123 for ET-1-activated MAP kinase was checked by Western blotting analysis. [3H]thymidine incorporation and MTT reduction studies were performed using the cells incubated for 12 h with serum-free medium containing effectors. BQ-123 inhibited ET-1 receptor binding and blocked [Ca2+]i mobilization, cellular contraction, MAP kinase activation, [3H]thymidine incorporation, and MTT reduction in response to ET-1. BQ-123 did not affect the arginine vasopressin (AVP)- and angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced increases in [Ca2+]i mobilization or in MAP kinase activity. Preincubation with BQ-123 did not enhance its inhibitory effects but these effects of BQ-123 were diminished by washing after preincubation. Receptor studies revealed that the washing procedure decreased the inhibitory effect of BQ-123 on ET-1 binding to receptors. These results indicate that BQ-123 is a potent and specific ET(A) receptor antagonist that blocks the ET-1-induced cellular contraction and proliferation in rat VSMC.
Effect of size, concentration, surface area, and volume of polymethylmethacrylate particles on human macrophages in vitro.	This study investigated effects of different sizes, concentrations, volumes, and surface areas of polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) particles on human macrophages. Adherent peripheral blood monocytes isolated from five healthy individuals were exposed for 48 h to phagocytosable (0.325 micron and 5.5 microns) and nonphagocytosable (200 microns) spherical particles. Each particle size was tested over a range of concentrations (10(4)-10(11) particles per milliliter [0.325 micron], 10(2)-10(7) particles per milliliter [5.5 microns], 10(1)-10(4) particles per milliliter [200 microns]) to provide overlap in number, volume, and surface area. Primary human monocyte/macrophages were cultured in macrophage serum-free medium and 5% fetal calf serum. Macrophage viability was assessed by 3H-thymidine uptake and activation was quantified by release of interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and the lysosomal enzyme hexosaminidase. Medium alone served as a negative control; lipopolysaccharide (10 micrograms/mL) was also tested. PMMA particles were not toxic to human macrophages at any concentration tested. The smallest phagocytosable particles (0.325 micron) stimulated the release of interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, prostaglandin E2, and hexosaminidase at concentrations of 10(10)-10(11) particles/mL. The release of cytokines, PGE2, and hexosaminidase depended on the size, concentration, surface area, and volume of the phagocytosable particles. This study demonstrates that PMMA particle load Mi.e., the concentration of phagocytosable particles per tissue volume, characterized by size, surface area, and volume, rather than simply particle number-determines the degree of macrophage activation.
Estradiol effect on rate of proliferation of rat carotid segments: effect of gender and tamoxifen.	Using organ culture of carotid artery segments from sexually mature male and female rats, we examined the effect of estradiol 17 beta on proliferation. The index of cell proliferation was [3H]thymidine uptake. Estradiol 17 beta (0.18-0.36 microM) inhibited the uptake of thymidine in a concentration-dependent manner (p < 0.05). Estradiol 17 beta inhibited [3H]thymidine uptake only in the absence of the weak estrogen receptor agonist phenol red and in carotid artery segments from sexually mature female (p < 0.01) but not male rats. Tamoxifen (0.1 and 1 microM), a partial agonist of estrogen receptors, significantly inhibited thymidine uptake (p < 0.01). However, preincubation of the segments with tamoxifen (0.1 and 1.0 microM) for 4 h before the exposure to estradiol, blocked estradiol 17 beta-induced inhibition of thymidine uptake (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01 for 0.1 and 1.0 microM, respectively). The cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (5 microM) did not affect either the basal [3H]thymidine uptake or the estradiol 17 beta-induced inhibition of that uptake. This latter finding suggests that prostacyclin or prostaglandin E2 does not mediate the inhibitory response to estradiol 17 beta. The results of these experiments suggest that estradiol 17 beta-induced inhibition of proliferation of rat carotid artery segments is mediated through activation of estrogen receptors.
Cell cycle related inhibition of mouse vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation by prostaglandin E1: relationship between prostaglandin E1 and intracellular cAMP levels.	Elucidation of the cellular and molecular mechanisms which regulate vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation is critical to the understanding of atherogenesis. The present studies were conducted to evaluate the relationship between prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and cAMP in the regulation of DNA synthesis in mouse vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Quiescent cultures of SMCs were challenged with 10% fetal bovine serum to initiate cell cycle transit and PGE1 (10 microM) or dibutyryl cAMP (1, 10, 100 microM) added at 0, 8, 16, 24, and 32 h. DNA synthesis as measured by [3H] thymidine incorporation and intracellular cAMP levels were measured 24 h following individual treatments. PGE1 modulated DNA synthesis in a cell cycle related fashion, with inhibition only observed in cells challenged 16 h or longer following initiation of cell cycle transit. The decrease in DNA synthesis induced by PGE1 was associated with increased intracellular cAMP levels at 16 and 24 h, but not 32 h. Exposure of SMCs to dibutyryl-cAMP also inhibited DNA synthesis in a cell cycle related fashion, with the most pronounced effect seen at 16 h. These results demonstrate that the effects of PGE1 are restricted to a defined period within the cell cycle following S phase entry and implicate modulation of intracellular cAMP levels in the inhibitory response.
The control of cell division in articular chondrocytes.	Our objective was to investigate the factors that control chondrocyte division, namely, (1) steric hindrance caused by the surrounding matrix, (2) growth factors and (3) cell shape. Bovine articular cartilage explants and isolated chondrocytes were cultured in medium containing [3H]-TdR to measure DNA synthesis. The effect of enzyme treatment, growth factors and cell shape was investigated. Proteoglycan (PG) depletion did not stimulate DNA synthesis whilst disruption of the collagen architecture promoted incorporation of [3H]-TdR into DNA. DNA synthesis was also stimulated by IGF-1 in flattened chondrocytes but not in rounded cells. It was found that the control of chondrocyte division depends on several variably related factors that may act singly or together to induce cell division and that PG depletion alone is insufficient to induce DNA synthesis, but division was noted when PG depletion was accompanied by matrix disruption and cell shape changes. Cell shape appears to alter the chondrocytes ability to respond to IGF-1 as a mitogen.
Avian germinal disc region secretes factors that stimulate proliferation and inhibit progesterone production by granulosa cells.	Microscopic analysis of ovarian follicles in the domestic hen has revealed differences in the cellular structure of granulosa cells that are dependent upon the location of granulosa cells relative to the germinal disc, which contains the female gamete. These differences appear as a morphological gradient, which implies variations in granulosa cell function. This observation prompted us to hypothesize that the germinal disc region (GDR) of the avian preovulatory follicle participates in the process of follicular growth by producing factors that act in a paracrine manner to stimulate proliferation of and inhibit steroidogenesis in the granulosa layer, establishing a gradient in the morphology and physiology of the granulosa layer. To test our hypothesis, we asked two questions: 1) Are physiological gradients of proliferation and steroidogenesis present within the granulosa layer of a preovulatory follicle? 2) Does the GDR secrete factors that affect granulosa cell proliferation and/or steroidogenesis? Incorporation of 3H-thymidine was used as a measure of proliferation, and production of progesterone was used as a measure of steroidogenesis. In the first experiment, 8-mm-diameter sections were obtained from three morphologically distinct regions of the granulosa monolayer: 1) the GDR, 2) granulosa cells distal to the GDR (distal granulosa) and 3) granulosa cells midway between the GDR and distal granulosa cells (proximal granulosa cells). The GDR incorporated the most 3H-thymidine and produced the least progesterone. Distal granulosa cells incorporated the least 3H-thymidine and produced the most progesterone. Proximal granulosa cells incorporated an intermediate amount of 3H-thymidine and produced an intermediate amount of progesterone. To answer the second question, conditioned medium was prepared from GDRs and distal granulosa cells (control) obtained from the F1 (largest preovulatory follicle) and F3 (the third-largest preovulatory follicle) follicles. Sections (8-mm in diameter) of the distal granulosa layer (F3 for 3H-thymidine incorporation, F1 for progesterone production) were incubated in GDR-conditioned medium or granulosa cell-conditioned medium to determine whether factors secreted into the medium by the GDR and distal granulosa cells affect granulosa cell proliferation and/or steroidogenesis. Certain samples of GDR-conditioned medium and granulosa cell-conditioned medium were boiled, protease-treated or charcoal-stripped. F3 and F1 GDRs produced heat- and protease-sensitive factors that promoted proliferation and inhibited progesterone production by granulosa cells. These data indicate that diametrically opposed gradients of proliferation and steroidogenesis are present within the granulosa layer of an individual preovulatory follicle. Furthermore, the GDR produces proliferation-stimulating and steroidogenesis-inhibiting factors that may act in an autocrine or paracrine manner to influence proliferation and steroidogenesis in granulosa cells.
Stimulation of macrophage DNA synthesis by polyanionic substances through binding to the macrophage scavenger receptor.	We previously demonstrated that ligands of macrophage scavenger receptors such as acetylated low density lipoprotein (LDL), oxidized LDL and advanced glycation-end products (AGE) of the Maillard reaction induce the growth of peritoneal exudate macrophages, and that the activity of AGE is inhibited by the presence of an antibody for granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). To evaluate the suggested role of the scavenger receptor in the induction of macrophage growth, we compared the effect of various polyanionic compounds which were reported to either have or not to have competent activity for the binding of acetylated LDL to scavenger receptors on macrophage DNA synthesis. Among the polyanions exhibiting such activity, polyguanilic acid (poly G) and dextran sulfate strongly augmented macrophage DNA synthesis, although they did not increase macrophage cell number. On the other hand, polyanions which are not ligands for the scavenger receptors did not show a significant augmenting effect, suggesting that the binding of polyanions to the scavenger receptor is important but not, by itself, sufficient. The augmentation of DNA synthesis in macrophages cultured with dextran sulfate or poly G was inhibited by the co-presence of anti-GM-CSF antibody, suggesting that the reaction is mediated by GM-CSF. However, dextran sulfate did not augment the production of GM-CSF in macrophages. Therefore, GM-CSF spontaneously present in macrophages might be a prerequisite for the induction of DNA synthesis.
Growth response of adult germ cells to rat androgen-binding protein and human sex hormone-binding globulin.	Androgen-binding protein (ABP) is produced by Sertoli cells depending on the development and the stage of the spermatogenic cycle. Germ cell proliferation is at its peak when ABP is at its peak and secreted towards the testicular basal compartment containing spermatogonia and premeiotic spermatocytes. Rat isolated adult germ cell DNA synthesis was studied in vitro in the presence of ABP with and without steroids and in the presence of pure or recombinant sex steroid hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) using thymidine incorporation. Results are: SHBG is able to promote DNA synthesis in the absence of cofactors. Testosterone reacted negatively to the stimulatory effect of SHBG. We conclude that ABP, the physiological steroid-binding protein, should be considered as a paracrine regulator of spermatogenic DNA synthesis in the adult rat.
Mechanical loading and sex hormone interactions in organ cultures of rat ulna.	The separate and combined effects of loading and 17 beta-estradiol (E2) or 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) on [3H]thymidine and [3H]proline incorporation were investigated in cultured ulna shafts from male and female rats. Ulnae were cultured and loaded to produce physiological strains in the presence or absence of 10(-8) M E2 or DHT. Loading engendered similar increases in incorporation of [3H]thymidine and [3H]proline in male and female bones. E2 engendered greater increases in incorporation in females than in males, and DHT greater increases in males than in females. In males E2 with loading produced increases in both [3H]thymidine and [3H]proline incorporation, which approximated to the arithmetic addition of the increases due to E2 and loading separately. In females E2 with loading produced increases greater than those in males, and substantially greater than the addition of the effects of E2 and loading separately. Loading with DHT in males also showed additional [3H]thymidine and [3H]proline incorporation. In females there was additional incorporation of [3H]proline, but not [3H]thymidine. The location of incorporation of [3H]thymidine and [3H] proline was consistent with their level of incorporation reflecting periosteal osteogenesis, in which case the early osteogenic effects of sex hormones are gender-specific when acting alone and in combination with loading. In males the effects of estrogen and testosterone add to, but do not enhance, the osteogenic responses to loading. In females testosterone with loading produces an additional effect on [3H]proline incorporation but no greater effect than loading alone on that of [3H]thymidine. In contrast, estrogen and loading together produce a greater effect than the sum of the two influences separately. Because premenopausal bone mass will have been achieved under the influence of loading and estrogen acting together, these findings suggest that the bone loss which follows estrogen withdrawal may result, at least in part, from reduction in the effectiveness of the loading-related stimulus on bone cell activity. This stimulus is normally responsible for maintaining bone mass and architecture.
Comparison of isotopic and immunohistochemical methods of studying epithelial cell proliferation in hamster tongue.	Our purpose was to validate different approaches to the study of cell proliferation in stratified squamous epithelia, using oral mucosa as a model. Dorsal and ventral tongue from the hamster were examined following in vivo labelling with tritiated thymidine and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd), and in vitro labelling with BrdUrd. These were compared with direct immunolabelling of fixed tissue sections with monoclonal antibody PC10. For the former methods S phase cells were quantified following autoradiography or immunohistochemistry. We conclude that the proliferative status of simple, flat, lining mucosae such as ventral tongue can be derived by all three pre-labelling methods and, on average, 18-19 cells per surface millimetre length were in DNA synthesis. On the other hand dorsal tongue epithelium, which is thicker, has an undulating morphology and a complex cell renewal pattern, gives different results with the three labelling methods. In both sites the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) index was fourfold that obtained by nucleotide labelling. This is consistent with PCNA marking proliferative cells in other phases of the cell cycle in addition to the S phase. Thus, there are potential differences between the information on proliferative status derived by PCNA immunohistochemistry and other established cell cycle markers, which need to be taken into account in the interpretation of epithelial cell kinetic data in health and disease.
Effect of vitamin A acid on the growth of keratinocytes in culture.	The effect of vitamin A acid on the culture of guinea pig ear keratinocytes was investigated. Use of this agent and treatment of the plastic dishes with collagen solution facilitated attachment and growth. Vitamin A acid elicited a wave of DNA synthesis which was studied by incorporation of tritiated thymidine and quantitation of cellular DNA, particularly during the period 24--45 h after plating. During this period, thymidine incorporation into DNA was increased ten-fold by vitamin A acid and showed a complex pattern of peaks and shoulders which may represent the S phase of synchronous keratinocytes.
Proliferative effects of oxidized low-density lipoprotein on vascular smooth muscle cells: role of dietary habits.	The effects were studied of native, partially-oxidized and totally-oxidized human low-density lipoprotein (LDL) on the proliferation of cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells (VSMC), measured as an altered DNA synthesis. The LDL was obtained from three different human long-term diet groups (a control diet rich in saturated fats, a vegetarian diet, and a fish diet). The oxidized LDLs were prepared by oxidizing the LDL with copper sulfate. The DNA synthesis was measured by [3H]-thymidine incorporation into the DNA. The partially-oxidized LDL was the most potent promoter of DNA synthesis compared to the native or totally-oxidized LDL of the same diet group. The partially-oxidized LDL had a true mitogenic effect in the absence of exogenous growth factors. The native and totally-oxidized LDL induced a significant increase in DNA synthesis, if they were obtained from the fish diet group. This study suggests an enhanced proliferative effect of partially-oxidized LDL on VSMC growth.
NF-kappaB inactivation converts a hepatocyte cell line TNF-alpha response from proliferation to apoptosis.	Toxins convert the hepatocellular response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) stimulation from proliferation to cell death, suggesting that hepatotoxins somehow sensitize hepatocytes to TNF-alpha toxicity. Because nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation confers resistance to TNF-alpha cytotoxicity in nonhepatic cells, the possibility that toxin-induced sensitization to TNF-alpha killing results from inhibition of NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression was examined in the RALA rat hepatocyte cell line sensitized to TNF-alpha cytotoxicity by actinomycin D (ActD). ActD did not affect TNF-alpha-induced hepatocyte NF-kappaB activation but decreased NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression. Expression of an IkappaB superrepressor rendered RALA hepatocytes sensitive to TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis in the absence of ActD. Apoptosis was blocked by caspase inhibitors, and TNF-alpha treatment led to activation of caspase-2, caspase-3, and caspase-8 only when NF-kappaB activation was blocked. Although apoptosis was blocked by the NF-kappaB-dependent factor nitric oxide (NO), inhibition of endogenous NO production did not sensitize cells to TNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity. Thus NF-kappaB activation is the critical intracellular signal that determines whether TNF-alpha stimulates hepatocyte proliferation or apoptosis. Although exogenous NO blocks RALA hepatocyte TNF-alpha cytotoxicity, endogenous production of NO is not the mechanism by which NF-kappaB activation inhibits this death pathway.
NG-hydroxy-L-arginine and nitric oxide inhibit Caco-2 tumor cell proliferation by distinct mechanisms.	The objective of this study was to elucidate the role and mechanism of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) in modulating the growth of the Caco-2 human colon carcinoma cell line. The two novel observations reported here are, first, that NG-hydroxy-L-arginine (NOHA) inhibits Caco-2 tumor cell proliferation, likely by inhibiting arginase activity, and, second, that NO causes cytostasis by mechanisms that might involve inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity. Both arginase and ODC are enzymes involved in the conversion of arginine to polyamines required for cell proliferation. Cell growth was monitored by cell count, cell protein analysis, and DNA synthesis. NOHA (1-30 microM) and NO in the form of DETA/NO (1-30 microM) inhibited cell proliferation by 30-85%. The cytostatic effect of NOHA was prevented by addition of excess ornithine, putrescine, spermidine, or spermine to cell cultures, whereas the cytostatic effect of NO (DETA/NO) and alpha-difluoromethylornithine (ODC inhibitor) was unaffected by ornithine but was prevented by putrescine, spermidine, or spermine. The cytostatic effect of NOHA appeared to be independent of its conversion to NO, and the effect of NO appeared to be independent of cGMP. NOHA inhibited urea production by Caco-2 cells and inhibited arginase catalytic activity (85% at 3 microM), whereas NO (DEA/NO and SNAP) inhibited ODC activity (>/=60% at 30 microM) without affecting arginase activity. Coculture of Caco-2 cells with lipopolysaccharide/cytokine-activated rat aortic endothelial cells markedly slowed Caco-2 cell proliferation, and this was blocked by NOS inhibitors. These observations that NOHA and NO may inhibit sequential steps in the arginine-polyamine pathway suggest a novel biological role for NOS in the inhibition of cell proliferation of certain tumor cells and possibly other cell types.
An Escherichia coli system expressing human deoxyribonucleoside salvage enzymes for evaluation of potential antiproliferative nucleoside analogs.	Deoxyribonucleoside salvage in animal cells is mainly dependent on two cytosolic enzymes, thymidine kinase (TK1) and deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), while Escherichia coli expresses only one type of deoxynucleoside kinase, i.e., TK. A bacterial whole-cell system based on genetically modified E. coli was developed in which the relevant bacterial deoxypyrimidine metabolic enzymes were mutated, and the cDNA for human dCK or TK1 under the control of the lac promoter was introduced. The TK level in extract from induced bacteria with cDNA for human TK1 was found to be 20,000-fold higher than that in the parental strain, and for the strain with human dCK, the enzyme activity was 160-fold higher. The in vivo incorporation of deoxythymidine (Thd) and deoxycytidine (dCyd) into bacterial DNA by the two recombinant strains was 20 and 40 times higher, respectively, than that of the parental cells. A number of nucleoside analogs, including cytosine arabinoside, 5-fluoro-dCyd, difluoro-dCyd, and several 5-halogenated deoxyuridine analogs, were tested with the bacterial system, as well as with human T-lymphoblast CEM cells. The results showed a close correlation between the inhibitory effects of several important cytostatic and antiviral analogs on the recombinant bacteria and the cellular system. Thus, E. coli expressing human salvage kinases is a rapid and convenient model system which may complement other screening methods in drug discovery projects.
Expression of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and GnRH receptor mRNA in prostate cancer cells and effect of GnRH on the proliferation of prostate cancer cells.	The purpose of this study was to determine the production of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), the co-occurrence of GnRH receptors in prostate cancer cells, and the effect of GnRH on prostate cancer cell proliferation. Four human prostate cancer cell lines were studied. LNCaP is an androgen sensitive prostate cancer cell line, DU-145 and PC-3 are androgen resistant, and TSU-Pr1 is uncharacterized. The expression of GnRH and GnRH receptor mRNAs were assessed by in situ hybridization and the effect of exogenous GnRH on proliferation of prostate cancer cells was measured by thymidine incorporation assay. GnRH mRNA expression, determined by in situ hybridization, was found in 83.48% of the LNCaP, 89.7% of the TSU-Pr1, 86.2% of the PC-3 and 95.3% of the DU-145. Signals of GnRH receptor mRNA were detected in more than 95% of the cells of all four cell lines. The proliferation of the prostate cancer cells grown in media supplemented with peptide hormone lacking charcoal-stripped serum was significantly (P < 0.05) suppressed. No significant effect of GnRH on the proliferation of all four prostate cancer cells was observed. In summary, prostate cancer cells produced GnRH and its receptors, and exogenous GnRH treatment did not affect the prostate cancer cell proliferation. The existence of GnRH and GnRH receptor mRNA in the same cell suggests that the role of GnRH produced by prostate cancer cells would be autocrine.
Superoxide scavenging effect of Ginkgo biloba extract on serotonin-induced mitogenesis.	We have reported previously that serotonin (5-HT) stimulates the mitogenesis of bovine pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (SMCs) through active transport of 5-HT and cellular signaling that includes elevation of superoxide (O2.-) and enhancement of protein tyrosine phosphorylation. Ginkgo biloba extract 501 (EGb 501), which has been demonstrated to act as an antioxidant, was found to block both the elevated O2.- and the proliferative and hypertrophic influences of 5-HT on SMCs, but not to directly inhibit the associated activation of NAD(P)H oxidase or the stimulation of phosphorylation of GTPase-activating protein (GAP). A similar effect of Ginkgo biloba extract 501 occurred on Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts (CCL-39), where 5-HT receptor, as opposed to transporter, action has been associated with mitogenesis. We conclude from these studies that Ginkgo biloba extract 501 quenches O2.- formation by 5-HT, thereby blocking its mitogenic effect. Stimulation of protein tyrosine phosphorylation of GAP by 5-HT appears to precede the elevation of O2.-.
Selection and extended growth of murine epidermal stem cells in culture.	Continuously renewing epithelia contain small undifferentiated stem cells capable of self-renewal and maintenance of the differentiating cell population. In murine epidermis stem cells have been identified as label-retaining cells (LRCs) by long-term retention of tritiated thymidine or BrdU. It has been suggested that epidermal stem cells adhere to basement membranes through differential expression of specific integrins. To determine whether we could use a specific integrin to enrich for murine epidermal stem cells, we tested adherence of LRCs to several substrates. Regardless of the substrate used, approximately 10% of total basal cells and 100% of LRCs adhered in 10 min. In our medium specifically formulated for murine keratinocytes, rapidly adherent stem cells formed large colonies and could be used to form a structurally complete epidermis in organotypic culture. They showed a fivefold greater transient transfection efficiency than total basal cells, and when individual adherent cells were transduced with a retroviral vector, they formed large clones. Although these stem cells grew more slowly than the total basal cell population, they could be subcultured more times. Our results indicate that murine epidermal stem cells can be selected by rapid attachment to a substrate, but not by one specific integrin, and that they can be expanded in culture if the appropriate conditions are maintained.
Alpha-adrenergic inhibition of proliferation in HepG2 cells stably transfected with the alpha1B-adrenergic receptor through a p42MAPkinase/p21Cip1/WAF1-dependent pathway.	Activation of alpha1B adrenergic receptors (alpha(1B)AR) promotes DNA synthesis in primary cultures of hepatocytes, yet expression of alpha(1B)AR in hepatocytes rapidly declines during proliferative events. HepG2 human hepatoma cells, which do not express alpha(1B)AR, were stably transfected with a rat alpha1B(AR) cDNA (TFG2 cells), in order to study the effects of maintained alpha(1B)AR expression on hepatoma cell proliferation. TFG2 cells had a decreased rate of growth compared to mock transfected HepG2 cells as revealed by a decrease in [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. Stimulation of alpha(1B)AR with phenylephrine caused a further large reduction in TFG2 cell growth, whereas no effect on growth was observed in mock transfected cells. Reduced cell growth correlated with increased percentages of cells found in G0/G1 and G2/M phases of the cell cycle. In TFG2 cells, phenylephrine increased p42MAPkinase activity by 1.5- to 2.0-fold for up to 24 h and increased expression of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor protein p21Cip1/WAF1. Treatment of TFG2 cells with the specific MEKI inhibitor PD98059, or infection with a -/- MEK1 recombinant adenovirus permitted phenylephrine to increase rather than decrease [3H]thymidine incorporation. In addition, inhibition of MAP kinase signaling by PD98059 or MEK1 -/- blunted the ability of phenylephrine to increase p21Cip1/WAF1 expression. In agreement with a role for increased p21Cip1/WAF1 expression in causing growth arrest, infection of TFG2 cells with a recombinant adenovirus to express antisense p21Cip1/WAF1 mRNA blocked the ability of phenylephrine to increase p21Cip1/WAF1 expression and to inhibit DNA synthesis. Antisense p21Cip1/WAF1 permitted phenylephrine to stimulate DNA synthesis in TFG2 cells, and abrogated growth arrest. These results suggest that transformed hepatocytes may turn off the expression of alpha1B(ARs) in order to prevent the activation of a growth inhibitory pathway. Activation of this inhibitory pathway via alpha1B(AR) appears to be p42MAPkinase and p21Cip1/WAF1 dependent.
Zinc deprivation of murine 3T3 cells by use of diethylenetrinitrilopentaacetate impairs DNA synthesis upon stimulation with insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1).	Growth failure in zinc-deficient animals is associated with decreased DNA synthesis; zinc deprivation of 3T3 cells, by use of diethylenetrinitrilopentaacetate (DTPA), impairs thymidine incorporation when the cells are stimulated with fetal bovine serum (FBS). The purpose of this study was to determine the step of cell cycle progression that is affected by zinc deprivation. Swiss murine 3T3 cells were cultured for 3 d in complete media and then for 2 d in low serum media. Cells were then placed in serum-free media and stimulated in sequence with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF; 3 h), epidermal growth factor (EGF; 0.5 h) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I; 16 h). The combination of growth factors stimulated thymidine incorporation to the same extent as 10% FBS, and DTPA or EDTA (0.6 mmol/L) inhibited thymidine incorporation. Inhibition was prevented by addition of zinc, but not calcium, iron or cadmium (0.4 mmol/L). When DTPA was present during all stages with no addition of zinc, or zinc added during the competency-priming (PDGF and EGF) step, the IGF-I step, or both steps, the zinc effect occurred at the IGF-I step. Zinc addition 4 h before the measurement of thymidine incorporation had no ameliorative effect, but the presence of zinc during the prior 12 h increased incorporation. Thus zinc exerts its major effect on DNA synthesis during the IGF-I stimulatory phase of the cell cycle. The total zinc concentration of 3T3 cells treated with DTPA for 16 h was not different from that of untreated cells; hence only a small compartment of the cell is affected by DTPA.
The transport of the anti-HIV drug, 2',3'-didehydro-3'-deoxythymidine (D4T), across the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers.	1. The brain is a site of infection, viral replication and sanctuary for HIV-1. The treatment of HIV-1 infection therefore requires that an effective agent be delivered to the brain. 2',3'-Didehydro-3'-deoxythymidine (D4T) is a nucleoside analogue which has been shown to have beneficial clinical effects in the treatment of HIV infection. However, although D4T has been detected in human CSF, the ability of this drug to cross both the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barriers and gain entrance into the brain tissue is not known. 2. This study examined the CNS entry of D4T by means of the bilateral vascular brain perfusion technique in the anaesthetized guinea-pig. 3. The results indicated that [3H]-D4T had a limited ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which was not significantly greater than D-[14C]-mannitol (a slowly penetrating marker molecule). Although D4T was found to cross the blood-CSF barrier, the presence of D4T in the CSF did not reflect levels of the drug in the brain tissue. 4. These results can be related to the measured low lipophilicity of D4T, the higher paracellular permeability characteristics of the choroid plexus (blood-CSF barrier) compared to the BBB, and the sink action nature of the CSF to the brain tissue. 5. In conclusion, these animal studies suggest that D4T may only penetrate the brain tissue to a limited extent and consideration should be given to these findings in the clinical situation.
Beta1C integrin in epithelial cells correlates with a nonproliferative phenotype: forced expression of beta1C inhibits prostate epithelial cell proliferation.	The expression of the beta1C integrin, an alternatively spliced variant of the beta1 subunit, was investigated in human adult and fetal tissues. In the adult, beta1C immunoreactivity was found in nonproliferative, differentiated simple, and/or pseudostratified epithelia in prostate glands and liver bile ducts. In contrast, beta1C was undetectable in stratified squamous epithelium of the epidermis and/or in hepatocytes. Luminal prostate epithelial cells expressed beta1C in vivo and in vitro, but no beta1C was seen in basal cells, which are proliferating cells. Fetal prostate expressed beta1C in differentiated glands that had a defined lumen, but not in budding glands, indicating that beta1C is a marker of prostate epithelium differentiation. The beta1C and the common beta1A variants are differentially distributed: beta1A was found in luminal and basal epithelial as well as in stromal cells in the prostate. In the liver, beta1C and beta1A were coexpressed in biliary epithelium, whereas vascular cells expressed only beta1A. Because we found beta1C in nonproliferative and differentiated epithelium, we investigated whether beta1C could have a causal role in inhibiting epithelial cell proliferation. The results showed that exogenous expression of a beta1C, but not of a beta1A, cytoplasmic domain chimeric construct, completely inhibited thymidine incorporation in response to serum by prostate cancer epithelial cells. Consistent with these in vitro results, beta1C appeared to be downregulated in prostate glands that exhibit regenerative features in benign hyperplastic epithelium. These data show that the presence of beta1C integrins in epithelial cells correlates with a nonproliferative, differentiated phenotype and is growth inhibitory to prostate epithelial cells in vitro. These findings indicate a novel pathophysiological role for this integrin variant in epithelial cell proliferation.
Liver regeneration is transiently impaired in urokinase-deficient mice.	To test the hypothesis that urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) plays an important role in liver regeneration in vivo, partial hepatectomy was performed on wild-type and uPA-deficient (uPA-/-) mice. Mice were studied at 24, 44, and 96 h and at 8 days and 4 wk post-partial hepatectomy for evidence of regeneration, as measured by mitotic indexes and [3H]thymidine incorporation. In wild-type mice, thymidine incorporation peaked at 44 h and this index was reduced by 47% in uPA-/- mice (P = 0.02). By 8 days, however, liver mass was comparable in both groups. Histological analysis revealed the presence of focal areas of fibrin deposition and cellular loss by 24 h that were more severe and prevalent in uPA-/- mice than in wild-type mice (62 and 23%, respectively; chi2 = 3.939, P = 0.047). In contrast, regeneration was not impaired in uPA receptor (uPAR)-deficient mice at 24 and 44 h. Taken together, these data indicate that uPA, independent of its interaction with the uPAR, plays an important role in liver regeneration in vivo.
Hypoxia enhances cellular proliferation and inositol 1,4, 5-triphosphate generation in fibroblasts from bovine pulmonary artery but not from mesenteric artery.	When pulmonary hypertension occurs in the face of hypoxia there is remodeling of all three layers of the pulmonary vessels, but in particular, there is an increase in number of adventitial fibroblasts. Hypoxia causes vasoconstriction in the pulmonary circulation and vasodilation in the systemic circulation. We hypothesized that there are fundamental differences in oxygen sensing and cell signaling between systemic and pulmonary artery cells in response to hypoxia. Here, we determined the effect of hypoxia either alone or in combination with known growth factors such as serum, endothelin-1 (ET-1), and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) on the proliferative responses of bovine pulmonary artery and mesenteric artery fibroblasts. Fibroblasts were obtained from primary cultures. Growth was assessed by [3H]thymidine incorporation. Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) generation was measured using a competitive binding assay. Hypoxia alone increased proliferation of pulmonary artery fibroblasts (611 +/- 24%), but not in those from the mesentery. Furthermore, hypoxia had the effect of increasing the replicative response of pulmonary fibroblasts to serum and PDGF, but no change was observed in the mesenteric cells. ET-1 had no effect on growth of either cell type. PDGF gave rise to a significant elevation in IP3 production under hypoxic conditions in the pulmonary artery cells (234%), but not in the mesenteric cells. ET-1 caused no change in IP3 production in any cell type. These data suggest that hypoxia sensitizes pulmonary artery fibroblasts to the proliferative effect of mitogens through a pathway that is not present, or is present but repressed, in the mesenteric cells.
Effects of soy-protein supplementation on epithelial proliferation in the histologically normal human breast.	A high dietary intake of soy products (eg, as in Japan and Singapore) has been associated with a reduction in the incidence of breast cancer in premenopausal women. Phytoestrogens present in soybeans inhibit human breast cancer cell proliferation in vitro and breast cancer development in animal models, but no data exist on the effects of phytoestrogens on histologically normal human breasts. This study examines the effects of dietary soy supplementation on the proliferation rate of premenopausal, histologically normal breast epithelium and the expression of progesterone receptor. Women (n = 48) with benign or malignant breast disease were randomly assigned to receive their normal diet either alone or with a 60-g soy supplement (containing 45 mg isoflavones) taken daily for 14 d. Biopsy samples of normal breasts were labeled with [3H]thymidine to detect the number of cells in S phase and were immunocytochemically stained for the proliferation antigen Ki67. The phytoestrogens genistein, daidzein, equol, enterolactone, and enterodiol were measured in serum samples obtained before and after supplementation. Serum concentrations of the isoflavones genistein and daidzein increased in the soy group at 14 d. Results showed a strong correlation between Ki67 and the thymidine labeling index (r = 0.868, P < or = 0.001). The proliferation rate of breast lobular epithelium significantly increased after 14 d of soy supplementation when both the day of menstrual cycle and the age of patient were accounted for. Progesterone receptor expression increased significantly in the soy group. Short-term dietary soy stimulates breast proliferation; further studies are required to determine whether this is due to estrogen agonist activity and to examine the long-term effects of soy supplementation on the pituitary gland and breast.
Expression of thrombomodulin in atherosclerotic lesions and mitogenic activity of recombinant thrombomodulin in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Thrombomodulin (TM), a thrombin receptor protein found on the endothelial cell surface, contains 6 tandem epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like structures. Recombinant human TM peptide containing these 6 EGF-like domains (rTME1-6) exhibits mitogenic activity in Swiss 3T3 cells. We examined the localization of TM in atherosclerotic lesions and the effects of rTME1-6 on the growth of cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that TM antigen was localized on monocytes, macrophages, and vascular SMCs. In cultured vascular SMCs, rTME1-6 accelerated [3H]thymidine uptake into DNA in a dose-dependent manner up to 3.4 times the control level. This mitogenic activity was abolished by addition of polyclonal anti-human TM antibody. The rTME1-6-induced mitogenesis was enhanced by EGF. However, a neutralizing monoclonal antibody against the EGF receptor (monoclonal antibody 225) did not inhibit the mitogenic activity of rTME1-6. Calphostin C, a specific protein kinase C inhibitor, and lavendustin-A, an inhibitor of EGF receptor-specific protein tyrosine kinase, inhibited the mitogenic activities of both rTME1-6 and EGF. Finally, rTME1-6 treatment increased the level of phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase in SMCs. Together, these results suggest that TM expression in atherosclerotic lesions may be associated with promotion of atherosclerosis through its mitogenic activity in vascular SMCs.
The box-1 region of the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor alpha-chain cytoplasmic domain is sufficient for hemopoietic cell proliferation and differentiation.	Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is a pleiotropic cytokine that acts on a variety of cell types and regulates cell proliferation and differentiation. The functional receptor for LIF is composed of LIFR alpha-chain (LIFRalpha) and gp130 both of which are shared in the functional receptors for oncostatin M, ciliary neurotrophic factor, and cardiotrophin-1. By using stable transfection of wild-type or cytoplasmic deletion mutants of LIFRalpha together with full-length gp130 into Ba/F3 cells, we found that cells expressing gp130 and an extensively deleted mutant LIFRalpha containing only the box-1 region were capable of proliferating in response to LIF, although LIF-dependent long term growth of these cells was seriously impaired. Using a similar strategy to generate WEHI-3BD+ cells expressing gp130 and wild-type or truncation mutants of LIFRalpha, studies revealed that the box-1 region of the LIFRalpha was also sufficient for LIF-dependent induction of different aspects of differentiation, including up-regulation of macrophage surface marker expression, morphological change, and cell migration in agar culture. However, the C-terminal region of the LIFRalpha, although not essential for intracellular signaling, was important for efficient receptor-mediated ligand internalization. In summary, the membrane-proximal box-1 region plays a dominant role in LIF-induced signal transduction of both proliferation and differentiation.
Programmed changes of cell cycle regulators by serum deprivation regardless of skeletal myocyte differentiation.	Permanent withdrawal of skeletal myoblasts from the cell cycle precedes differentiation. We examined the changes of protein levels of cell cycle regulators and the activities of CDKs in differentiating (by serum deprivation) or in differentiation-inhibited (by serum deprivation + TGF-beta1 treated) C2C12 skeletal myocytes. Regardless of differentiation, protein levels of most cyclins declined over time while this effect was delayed slightly by TGF-beta1 for cyclins D1 and F. Although the protein levels of CDKs gradually decreased over time, the activities of CDK2 and cdc2 decreased dramatically between 0 and 12 h after serum deprivation in both groups. Decreased CDK2 and cdc2 activities were temporally related to decreased DNA synthesis. While the p27KIP1 protein increased in both groups, the p21CIP1 protein increased only in differentiating cells. In vivo, protein expressions of cyclins, CDKs, and p21CIP1 were high in fetal, but almost undetectable in adult skeletal muscle. In contrast, the levels of p27KIP1 protein in skeletal muscle were high throughout development. Thus, changes of cell cycle regulators in differentiating C2C12 myocytes paralleled those during skeletal muscle development of mice. These results suggest that the rapid reduction of DNA synthesis and activities of CDKs slow reduction of protein levels of cyclins and CDKs, and that the increase of p27KIP1 are programmed mechanisms upon mitogen deprivation regardless of differentiation in skeletal myocytes.
Differential effects of IFN-beta1b on the proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells.	The effect of human interferon (IFN)-beta1b (Betaseron) on the proliferation of cultured human vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells was tested in vitro. IFN-beta1b inhibited thymidine incorporation and growth of primary cultures of human aortic and coronary artery smooth muscle in a concentration-dependent manner. The same concentrations of IFN-beta1b did not inhibit thymidine incorporation or growth of primary cultures of human aortic or coronary artery endothelial cells. IFN-beta1b induced the expression of MxA (an antiviral protein induced by type I IFNs) in both smooth muscle and endothelial cells, suggesting that both cell types express receptors for type I IFNs. The growth-inhibitory effect of IFN-beta1b could be mimicked by commercially available human IFN-beta, but not by IFN-alpha2 or IFN-alpha8. The effect of IFN-beta1b was species specific, as it did not inhibit thymidine incorporation in aortic smooth muscle cells derived from pig, rabbit, rat, or mouse. The action of IFN-beta1b on smooth muscle cells persisted for at least 4 days following a 24 h preincubation with IFN-beta1b. Human vascular smooth muscle cells treated with IFN-beta1b did not release lactate dehydrogenase, nor did they show any morphologic change, suggesting that IFN-beta1b was not toxic to the human vascular smooth muscle cells. IFN-beta1b inhibited vascular smooth muscle growth while having no growth-inhibitory effect on endothelial cells obtained from the same blood vessel, making it a potential candidate for treating pathologic conditions where abnormal vascular smooth muscle proliferation is implicated, such as restenosis following balloon angioplasty or smooth muscle proliferation following vascular stenting.
In vitro inhibition of human malignant brain tumour cell line proliferation by anti-urokinase-type plasminogen activator monoclonal antibodies.	A brain tumour-associated marker, urokinase (UK), was investigated using rabbit anti-UK polyclonal and murine anti-UK monoclonal antibodies, which were prepared by immunization with low molecular weight UK (LMW-UK) and high molecular weight urokinase (HMW-UK) synthetic peptide respectively. The polyclonal antibody cross-reacted with both LMW-UK and HMW-UK, whereas the murine MAbs were specific for HMW-UK. These immunological probes were used to study urokinase in glioma extracts, tissues, sera and cell lines that had been prepared from primary cultures of freshly dissected gliomas. Radioimmunoassays showed that glioma extracts had much higher level (5- to 44-fold) of UK than normal human brain extracts. This result was confirmed by immunoblotting of electrophoresis gels of glioma and human brain extracts. Immunohistochemical study using anti-UK MAb demonstrated much higher levels of UK in glioma tissue than normal brain tissue. Immunohistochemical study using anti-UK MAbs localized UK on the cell surface of glioma cells. Anti-UK MAbs inhibited the proliferation of AA cell lines and GB cell lines (50% to > 90%) and exerted minor effects (< or = 20%) on normal human liver, intestine and lymphocyte cell lines. Taken together, these results suggest that anti-UK MAbs may have therapeutic potential for human gliomas and cancer metastasis.
Light-induced photoactivation of hypericin affects the energy metabolism of human glioma cells by inhibiting hexokinase bound to mitochondria.	Glucose-dependent energy required for glioma metabolism depends on hexokinase, which is mainly bound to mitochondria. A decrease in intracellular pH leads to a release of hexokinase-binding, which in turn decreases glucose phosphorylation, ATP content, and cell proliferation. Thus, intracellular pH might be a target for therapy of gliomas, and a search for agents able to modulate intracellular pH was initiated. Hypericin, a natural photosensitizer, displays numerous biological activities when exposed to light. Its mechanism and site of action at the cellular level remain unclear, but it probably acts by a type II oxygen-dependent photosensitization mechanism producing singlet oxygen. Hypericin is also able to induce a photogenerated intracellular pH drop, which could constitute an alternative mechanism of hypericin action. In human glioma cells treated for 1 h with 2.5 microg/ml hypericin, light exposure induced a fall in intracellular pH. In these conditions, mitochondria-bound hexokinase was inhibited in a light- and dose-dependent manner, associated with a decreased ATP content, a decrease of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and a depletion of intracellular glutathione. Hexokinase protein was effectively released from mitochondria, as measured by an ELISA using a specific anti-hexokinase antibody. In addition to decreased glutathione, a response to oxidative stress was confirmed by the concomitant increase in mRNA expression of gamma-glutamyl cysteine synthetase, which catalyzes the rate-limiting step in overall glutathione biosynthesis, and is subject to feedback regulation by glutathione. Hypericin also induced a dose- and light-dependent inhibition of [3H]thymidine uptake and induced apoptosis, as demonstrated by annexin V-FITC binding and cell morphology. This study confirmed the mitochondria as a primary target of photodynamic action. The multifaceted action of hypericin involves the alteration of mitochondria-bound hexokinase, initiating a cascade of events that converge to alter the energy metabolism of glioma cells and their survival. In view of the complex mechanism of action of hypericin, further exploration is warranted in a perspective of its clinical application as a potential phototoxic agent in the treatment of glioma tumors.
The effect of chloditan on synthetic processes in the adrenal gland cells of newborn piglets]	In experiments with a primary culture of adrenal cells, it has been studied the influence of chloditane, as a specific inhibitor of adrenocortical function, on the synthetic processes in the newborn pig adrenal cells, whose organ and cell cultures are more and more used as transplantation material for the treatment of adrenal insufficiency. It has been shown that incubation of adrenocorticocytes with chloditane (final concentration in culture medium: 1 to 10,000 ng/ml) during 24 hours had a marked negative dose-dependent effect on the indices of inclusion of 3H-thymidine and 3H-uridine into the nucleic acids. In the presence of a maximum chloditane concentration, inclusion made, respectively, 16.9 and 46.0% from control. A trustworthy effect of chloditane on the indices of 3H-leucine inclusion (protein synthesis) has been established only for concentration 10 to 100 ng/ml and made near 70% from control. It has been discussed a possible mechanism of chloditane action on the synthetic processes in adrenal cells.
The inhibitory effect of glabridin from licorice extracts on melanogenesis and inflammation.	Glabridin is the main ingredient in hydrophobic fraction of licorice extract affecting on skins. In this study, we investigated inhibitory effects of glabridin on melanogenesis and inflammation using cultured B16 murine melanoma cells and guinea pig skins. The results indicated that glabridin inhibits tyrosinase activity of these cells at concentrations of 0.1 to 1.0 microg/ml and had no detectable effect on their DNA synthesis. Combined analysis of SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and DOPA staining on the large granule fraction of these cells disclosed that glabridin decreased specifically the activities of T1 and T3 tyrosinase isozymes. It was also shown that UVB-induced pigmentation and erythema in the skins of guinea pigs were inhibited by topical applications of 0.5% glabridin. Anti-inflammatory effects of glabridin in vitro were also shown by its inhibition of superoxide anion productions and cyclooxygenase activities. These data indicated that glabridin is a unique compound possessing more than one function; not only the inhibition of melanogenesis but also the inhibition of inflammation in the skins. By replacing each of hydroxyl groups of glabridin with others, it was revealed that the inhibitory effect of 2'-O-ethyl glabridin was significantly stronger than that of 4'-O-ethyl-glabridin on melanin synthesis in cultured B16 cells at the concentration of 1.0 mg/ml. With replacement of both of two hydroxyl groups, the inhibitory effect was totally lost. Based on these data, we concluded that two hydroxyl groups of glabridin are important for the inhibition of melanin synthesis and that the hydroxyl group at the 4' position of this compound is more closely related to melanin synthesis.
The effect of intermittent injections of CCK-8S and the CCK-A receptor antagonist devazepide on cell proliferation in exocrine rat pancreas.	Intermittent injections of sulfated cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8S) or devazepide caused long-lasting effects on cell proliferation in exocrine pancreas in contrast to continuous infusion. The acinar cells responded to both treatments with changes in the labeling index (LI) during the whole study period. When studying the influence of stimulation and inhibition of the CCK-A receptor on cell proliferation in the exocrine pancreas, not only are the drugs and doses of importance but also the mode of administration.
Ethanol inhibits mitogen activated protein kinase activity and growth of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro.	The aim of this study was to determine the effect of ethanol on vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. Rat aortic smooth muscle cell growth in vitro was determined by measuring cell counts and [3H]thymidine incorporation. MAPK signaling was determined by assessing MEK (also referred to as MAPK kinase) activity by measuring phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pp44ERK - 1 and pp42ERK - 2) expression, and ERK activity by measuring ERK-2-dependent phosphorylation of myelin basic protein (MBP). In quiesced smooth muscle cells, ethanol treatment (24 h) inhibited serum-stimulated mitogenesis in a dose-dependent manner, (IC50 = 60 mM), in the absence of any effect on smooth muscle cell viability. In addition, ethanol treatment caused a significant shift to the right in the smooth muscle cell growth curve, extending the population doubling time from approximately 48 h (control) to approximately 70 h (ethanol). Acute (15 min) ethanol treatment reduced serum-stimulated pp44ERK - 1 and pp42ERK - 2 expression in a dose dependent fashion; 24.5+/-1.5% and 77.6+/-3.2% inhibition for 20 mM and 160 mM ethanol, respectively. Furthermore, there was a significant dose-dependent decrease in ERK2 activity in ethanol treated smooth muscle cells as compared to control smooth muscle cells. These data demonstrate an inhibitory effect of ethanol on smooth muscle cell proliferation and MAPK signalling in vitro. It is tempting to speculate that these actions of ethanol may contribute to its cardiovascular effects in vivo.
Short-term macrophage interleukin-1 response to injected silicone in a rat model.	The short-term effects of silicone particles on the ability of splenic and peritoneal macrophages to produce Interleukin-1 (IL-1) were assessed. Lewis rats were divided into three groups. Group 1 animals (n=12) were injected subcutaneously with 2.5 ml of sterile saline; Group 2 animals (n=12) received 2.5 ml of Freund's Complete Adjuvant (FCA); Group 3 animals (n=12) received subcutaneous injections (2.5 ml) of a sonicated slurry comprised of equal parts of FCA and silicone. At days 1, 4, and 7 single-cell suspensions of splenic (10(8) cells/ml) and peritoneal (10(6) cells/ml) macrophages of four animals from each group were prepared. The supernatants from macrophages cultured in the presence or absence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were added to IL-1 dependent mouse thymocytes for 72 hrs, and subsequently pulsed with 3H-thymidine. Radioactivity incorporation was determined after 18 hrs. Peritoneal macrophage culture supernatants had significantly higher activity than splenic macrophages and all macrophages stimulated with LPS had significantly higher activity. At days 1 and 7, there were no significant differences in 3H-thymidine uptake. At day 4 there was an elevation of 3H-thymidine uptake from supernatant of peritoneal macrophages treated with FCA/silicone suggesting subcutaneous silicone injection has short-term effects.
