A case of gastric carcinoma treated effectively with 5'-DFUR]	A 79-year-old male was admitted to our hospital for further examination on gastric carcinoma (1' type) in the cardia. The histology of biopsied tissue was moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma (tub2). The patient refused a gastrectomy and received three cycles of local injection therapy with OK-432 + Beriplast into the tumor. However, the tumor showed no decrease in size. Considering the quality of life, the patient was given out patient treatment with 5'-DFUR (Furtulon, 800 mg/day). Three months later, the patient showed a partial response (PR) on the basis of gastric X-ray and endoscopic findings. No adverse reactions to the drug were seen. The patient has been receiving the same drug since then, and has continued to show PR for 15 months. Biopsied tissues were checked immunohistochemically for expression of thymidine phosphorylase (TdRPase), and changes in tissue TdRPase level were examined by ELISA. The TdRPase level decreased with shrinking of the tumor. These results suggest that the shrinking of tumor following 5'-DFUR therapy is closely related to TdRPase.
Prognostic significance of platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor/thymidine phosphorylase expression in stage pT1 G3 bladder cancer.	The management of patients with pT1 G3 bladder cancer remains controversial because of the high incidence of recurrence with muscle invasion. Thymidine phosphorylase (dThdPase) is identical to platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF) and has angiogenic activity. The aim of this study was to determine whether the expression of PD-ECGF/dThdPase in bladder cancer tissue was associated with tumor progression and recurrence in patients with pT1 G3 bladder cancer.
Thymidine phosphorylase expression in hepatic metastasis from colorectal carcinoma]	Thymidine phosphorylase (dThdPase) is identical to platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF), and has angiogenic activity. It has been reported that a higher level of dThdPase activity is associated with an unfavorable patient prognosis. The activity of dThdPase was investigated in 15 patients who underwent hepatectomy for hepatic metastasis from colorectal carcinoma, and an assessment was made as to whether its expression was correlated with the prognosis. The dThdPase activity was significantly higher in the patients with extrahepatic metastasis after hepatectomy (n = 5) than in those without extrahepatic metastasis (n = 10) (168.2 +/- 50.8 vs 95.1 +/- 35.2 Unit/mg prot., p < 0.05). This dThdPase activity could be a significant prognostic indicator, and was useful in predicting the extrahepatic recurrence after hepatectomy for hepatic metastasis from colorectal carcinoma.
Effect of peroral doxifluridine plus hepatic arterial infusion for synchronous liver metastasis of colorectal cancer--correlation with the expression of thymidine phosphorylase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary colorectal cancer lesions]	We investigated whether the efficacy of peroral doxifluridine and hepatic arterial 5-FU infusion on synchronous liver metastasis of colorectal cancer could be predicted based on the expression of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) in the primary colorectal lesions. Ten patients with synchronous liver metastasis of colorectal cancer were given doxifluridine (600-800 mg/body/day) orally and 5-FU (500 mg/body, once or twice a week) through the hepatic artery following resection of the primary lesions between June 1996 and July 2001. The levels of TP and DPD in the primary lesions were determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The level of TP, DPD, and the ratio of TP/DPD in patients with partial response (n = 4) were 89.8 +/- 30.0 U/mg protein, 23.5 +/- 25.7 U/mg protein, and 3.8 +/- 1.4, respectively, while those in patients with no response or progressive disease (n = 6) were 41.8 +/- 9.7 U/mg protein, 25.8 +/- 15.8 U/mg protein, and 2.2 +/- 1.6, showing significant difference (p < 0.01) in the level of TP between the groups. These results indicate that determining the level of TS in primary colorectal lesions may be useful for predicting the efficacy of this regimen for patients with synchronous liver metastasis of colorectal cancer.
Upregulated hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha and -2alpha pathway in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.	The pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) remains obscure, although angiogenesis appears to play an important role. We recently confirmed an overexpression of two angiogenic factors, namely vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF), by the lining and stromal cells of the synovium in both conditions. Because hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and HIF-2alpha are essential in regulating transcription of the VEGF gene, active participation of HIF-alpha molecules in the pathogenesis of these arthritides is anticipated. We investigated the immunohistochemical expression of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha in the synovium of 22 patients with RA, 34 patients with OA and 22 'normal' nonarthritic individuals, in relation to VEGF, VEGF/KDR (kinase insert domain protein receptor) vascular activation, PD-ECGF and bcl-2. A significant cytoplasmic and nuclear overexpression of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha was noted in the synovial lining and stromal cells of both diseases relative to normal. Overexpression of HIF-alphas was related to high microvessel density, high PD-ECGF expression and high VEGF/KDR receptor activation, suggesting HIF-alpha-dependent synovial angiogenesis in OA. By contrast, the activation of the angiogenic VEGF/KDR pathway was persistently increased in RA, as indeed was microvessel density and the expression of PD-ECGF, irrespective of the extent of HIF-alpha expression, indicating a cytokine-dependent angiogenesis. In all cases, the VEGF/KDR vascular activation was significantly lower in OA than in RA, suggesting a relative failure of the HIF-alpha pathway to effectively produce a viable vasculature for OA, which is consistent with the degenerative nature of the disease. The activation of the HIF-alpha pathway occurs in both RA and OA, although for unrelated reasons.
Significance of thymidine phosphorylase in HCC with chronic liver disease for long-term postoperative recurrence.	Little is known about the significance of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) levels in HCC. The authors investigated the TP activity of HCC and adjacent normal liver tissue in 70 HCC patients, and the prognostic significance of the TP levels.
Clinical significance of angiogenesis in gastrointestinal cancers: a target for novel prognostic and therapeutic approaches.	To review the current data on the prognostic and therapeutic implications of tumor angiogenesis in gastrointestinal cancers.
Cellular metabolism of (-) enantiomeric 2'-deoxy-3'-thiacytidine.	The metabolism of (-) enantiomeric 2'-deoxy-3'-thiacytidine (3TC) was examined in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected and mock-infected human cells. 3TC 5'-triphosphate levels accumulated comparably in HIV-1-infected and mock-infected phytohaemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and reached 40% or more of total intracellular 3TC metabolites after 4 hr. The rate of decay of 3TC triphosphate in HIV-1-infected and mock-infected PBL measured as a half-life (T1/2) ranged from 10.5 to 15.5 hr. 3TC did not significantly affect metabolism of deoxynucleotides in the U937 cell line, and was shown to be resistant to the action of human platelet pyrimidine nucleoside phosphorylase.
Comparative analysis of thymidine phosphorylase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase expression in gastric and colorectal cancers.	Thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are considered to be key enzymes affecting the prognosis for patients with gastric and colorectal cancers. We tried to prove the correlation of TP and DPD expressions in gastric and colorectal cancers. The present study was designed to quantify TP and DPD levels by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in tumors and normal tissues obtained from 16 gastric and 20 colorectal cancer patients. TP and TP/DPD ratio in the tumor specimens were almost all higher than those in each normal tissue, especially for tumors in the progressive state. In the early stage of the colorectal cancer group, DPD in the normal tissues were higher than those in the tumor specimens. There were no significant differences between TP levels in the tumor specimens of the two groups, whereas in stages III and IV, those of the gastric cancer group tended to be higher than those of colorectal cancer group. In stages I and II, DPD levels in the tumor specimens tended to be higher in the gastric cancer group than in the colorectal cancer group. DPD T/N was higher in the gastric cancer group than in the colorectal cancer group. There were no significant differences between TP/DPD ratios in the tumor specimens of the two groups, whereas those in normal tissue were higher in the gastric cancer group than in the colorectal cancer group. We may be able to achieve the successful effects or reduction of side effects of anticancer chemotherapy for gastric and colorectal cancer using the results of this study.
Expression of thymidine phosphorylase in human superficial bladder cancer.	The purpose of the present paper was to investigate the expression level of thymidine phosphorylase (TPase) in superficial bladder cancer tissues obtained by transurethral resection, and determine whether its expression correlates with tumor recurrence.
Real-time RT-PCR (TaqMan) of tumor mRNA to predict sensitivity of specimens to 5-fluorouracil.	5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is still a key drug in the treatment of various kinds of advanced cancer, including breast and gastrointestinal carcinomas. To predict the sensitivity of colorectal cancer to 5-FU, mRNA is extracted from surgically obtained cancer specimens and expression of thymidylate synthetase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), uridine phosphorylase (UP), es-nucleoside transporter (NT), and E2F1 are detected by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (TaqMan). Previous results have shown that the catabolic rate-limiting enzymes DPD and NT, which are important membranous transporter of nucleosides, may regulate the sensitivity to 5-FU.
Thymidine phosphorylase expression in tumour cells and tumour response to capecitabine plus docetaxel chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer.	Thymidine phosphorylase (TP) is the key enzyme for capecitabine activation in tumour cells.
A Phase I study of weekly intravenous oxaliplatin in combination with oral daily capecitabine and radiation therapy in the neoadjuvant treatment of rectal adenocarcinoma.	We conducted a Phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of neoadjuvant capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and radiation therapy (RT) in Stage II to III rectal adenocarcinoma.
Angiogenesis in colorectal cancer: prognostic and therapeutic implications.	Angiogenesis is important for tumor growth and metastasis. This account reviews the clinicopathological studies conducted in the field of angiogenesis in colorectal cancer, the methods of assessing vascular-related characteristics in tissue sections and provides a background for the usefulness of antiangiogenic policies along with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Highly angiogenic colorectal tumors are associated with aggressive histopathological features and poor patients' survival. Similarly, factors stimulating angiogenesis, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and others, are commonly related to increased vascular density (VD) and, therefore, to an unfavorable clinical course. Anti-VEGF agents have improved prognosis in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, when added to standard chemotherapy. It is expected that, in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy, agents blocking the stimulatory effect of VEGF on endothelial cells would prove beneficial to the patient.
Tezacitabine enhances the DNA-directed effects of fluoropyrimidines in human colon cancer cells and tumor xenografts.	Tezacitabine is a nucleoside analogue characterized by a dual mechanism of action. Following intracellular phosphorylation, the tezacitabine diphosphate irreversibly inhibits ribonucleotide reductase, while the tezacitabine triphosphate can be incorporated into DNA during replication or repair, resulting in DNA chain termination. In the present study we have investigated the effect of the combination of tezacitabine and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine (FUdR) on HCT 116 human colon carcinoma cells and xenografts. We used response surface analysis (RSA) and clonogenic assay to evaluate combination effects of tezacitabine and 5-FU. Tezacitabine is antagonistic when combined with 5-FU in the RSA assay and does not effect the clonogenicity of HCT 116 cells when compared with cells treated with 5-FU alone. However, when combined sequentially with FUdR, tezacitabine leads to potentiation of cell killing in the clonogenic assay, additivity in the RSA assay, and increased apoptosis when compared to FUdR alone, suggesting that cytotoxicity of fluoropyrimidines such as FUdR that have more DNA-directed effects can be potentiated by tezacitabine. We also report that oral administration of the fluoropyrimidine capecitabine, an oral prodrug of 5-FU, in combination with tezacitabine shows statistically significant additivity in the HCT 116 xenograft model. This interaction may be explained by the finding that tezacitabine elevates activity of thymidine phosphorylase (TP), the enzyme required for activation of the capecitabine prodrug in tumors. Our results provide evidence that tezacitabine enhances the DNA-directed effects of fluoropyrimidines in human colon cancer cells and may modulate the antitumor activity of fluoropyrimidines.
Gliostatin/thymidine phosphorylase-regulated vascular endothelial growth-factor production in human fibroblast-like synoviocytes.	Gliostatin/thymidine phosphorylase (GLS/TP) is known to have angiogenic and arthritogenic activities. The purpose of this study was to elucidate whether GLS/TP is involved in the regulation of the angiogenic cytokine vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) from patients with RA were cultured and stimulated with recombinant human GLS (rHuGLS) and interleukin (IL)-1beta. Immunohistochemistry showed that GLS/TP and VEGF were detectable in the synovial lining cells. In cultured FLSs, both VEGF mRNA and protein levels were markedly increased by rHuIL-1beta treatment. rHuGLS increased VEGF mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner. We detected high concentrations of VEGF165 protein in culture supernatants from FLSs treated with rHuGLS (300 ng/ml), which were comparable to GLS levels found in synovial fluid of RA patients. These findings indicate that GLS/TP and VEGF have synergistic effects on angiogenesis in rheumatoid synovitis, and that GLS/TP has a role in regulating VEGF.
A possible role of thymidine phosphorylase expression and 5-fluorouracil increased sensitivity in oropharyngeal cancer patients.	Thymidine Pi deoxyribosyltransferase (TP) is an enzyme involved in DNA synthesis up-regulated in tumours and it is also a pro-angiogenic factor. TP cannot activate capecitabine, because capecitabine first needs conversion by carboxylesterase and cytidine deaminase into 5-deoxy-fluorouridine. This compound can be activated by TP to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Although TP is not necessary for 5-FU toxicity, experimental data suggest that high levels of TP correlate with an enhanced response to 5-FU therapy. In this study, we have analysed by immunohistochemistry CD34, CD68 and TP positive cells in bioptic samples from 53 patients with T(1-3) N(0-1) M(0) oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OSC) and from 24 patients with non-dysplastic oropharyngeal leukoplakia (NDOLP). Results showed that the mean of TP-positive cells, CD68 positive macrophages and CD34 positive endothelial cells eval-uated as microvessel density (MVD) was significantly higher in OSC than in NDOLP. Moreover, at a median follow-up of 19 months, patients with TP expression and higher MVD showed a better survival rate as compared to those with low MVD, probably as a consequence of 5-FU-based therapy.We hypothesized a role for TP in oropharyngeal tumourigenesis and 5-FU activation in the adjuvant setting of OSC patients.
Modified Irinotecan/5FU/Leucovorin therapy in advanced colorectal cancer and predicting therapeutic efficacy by expression of tumor-related enzymes.	To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a regimen using Irinotecan, 5FU and Leucovorin for patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
Thymidine salvage changes with differentiation in human keratinocytes in vitro.	We compared the capacity of proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes to salvage and catabolize extracellular thymidine. Both populations of cells catabolized thymidine to thymine and possessed thymidine phosphorylase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate, thymidine phosphorylase activity ultimately increased twofold. In contrast, proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes differed markedly in their capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine. Proliferating keratinocytes readily salvaged extracellular thymidine to form nucleotides, whereas differentiating cells rapidly lost this capacity. The inability of differentiating cells to form nucleotides from thymidine was not attributed to reduced availability of thymidine due to catabolism but rather was the result of the rapid loss of thymidine kinase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate in suspension culture, they lose 41% of thymidine kinase activity in 8 h and over 90% of activity in 12 h. Our data indicate that loss of capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine for synthesis of nucleotides closely parallels the onset of differentiation in keratinocytes.
The therapeutic efficacy of S-1 against orthotopically implanted human pleural mesothelioma cells in severe combined immunodeficient mice.	Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a highly lethal neoplasm. S-1 has been developed as a novel oral antineoplastic agent based on the modulation of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) bioactivity. This study was conducted to investigate the preclinical therapeutic effect of S-1 on MPM.
Heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein K and thymidine phosphorylase are independent prognostic and therapeutic markers for oral squamous cell carcinoma.	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is the major cancer of head and neck with increasing incidence and mortality in Taiwan. We investigate hnRNP K, TP and FLIP expression and assess the prognostic and therapeutic potential of these markers in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). We analyzed hnRNP K, TP, and FLIP expression in 110 OSCC patients by immunohistochemistry. Statistical analyses were applied to correlate nuclear and cytoplasmic hnRNP K with elevated TP and FLIP, and to determine the associations of these three markers with clinicopathological manifestations, and assess their prognostic and therapeutic significance. The therapeutic implication of elevated TP was determined by measuring the sensitivity of OSCC cells to the TP-targeting drug, 5-fluoro-5'-deoxyuridine (5'-DFUR). We found that each of these proteins was overexpressed in OSCC tumors. Nuclear hnRNP K and cytoplasmic hnRNP K were strongly associated with TP (r(2)=0.344, P=0.0004) and FLIP (r(2)=0.201, P=0.035), respectively. High hnRNP K and TP levels were associated with clinicopathological parameters predictive of poorer treatment outcome. Multivariate analyses indicated that cytoplasmic hnRNP K and TP are independent predictors of overall survival (P=0.022 and 0.009, respectively) and disease-free survival (P=0.012 and 0.005, respectively). OSCC cells expressing high levels of TP were more sensitive to treatment with 5'-DFUR. Elevated cytoplasmic hnRNP K and TP overexpression are associated with poorer survival in OSCC patients. In vitro experiments suggest that OSCC tumors with high levels of TP are more sensitive to 5'-DFUR treatment. Thus, cytoplasmic hnRNP K and TP may be potential prognostic and therapeutic markers for OSCC.
Characterization of pyrimidine nucleoside phosphorylase of Mycoplasma hyorhinis: implications for the clinical efficacy of nucleoside analogues.	In the present paper we demonstrate that the cytostatic and antiviral activity of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues is markedly decreased by a Mycoplasma hyorhinis infection and show that the phosphorolytic activity of the mycoplasmas is responsible for this. Since mycoplasmas are (i) an important cause of secondary infections in immunocompromised (e.g. HIV infected) patients and (ii) known to preferentially colonize tumour tissue in cancer patients, catabolic mycoplasma enzymes may compromise efficient chemotherapy of virus infections and cancer. In the genome of M. hyorhinis, a TP (thymidine phosphorylase) gene has been annotated. This gene was cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli and kinetically characterized. Whereas the mycoplasma TP efficiently catalyses the phosphorolysis of thymidine (Km=473 μM) and deoxyuridine (Km=578 μM), it prefers uridine (Km=92 μM) as a substrate. Our kinetic data and sequence analysis revealed that the annotated M. hyorhinis TP belongs to the NP (nucleoside phosphorylase)-II class PyNPs (pyrimidine NPs), and is distinct from the NP-II class TP and NP-I class UPs (uridine phosphorylases). M. hyorhinis PyNP also markedly differs from TP and UP in its substrate specificity towards therapeutic nucleoside analogues and susceptibility to clinically relevant drugs. Several kinetic properties of mycoplasma PyNP were explained by in silico analyses.
DCA increases the antitumor effects of capecitabine in a mouse B16 melanoma allograft and a human non-small cell lung cancer A549 xenograft.	Capecitabine is one of the few chemotherapy drugs with high oral availability. Recently, sodium dichloroacetate (DCA) has shown great potential as an anticancer agent. In the present study, we assessed the anticancer effect of DCA in combination with capecitabine for cancers that modestly expressed TP.
Pyrimidine metabolism in Tritrichomonas foetus.	The pyrimidine metabolism of Tritrichomonas foetus (KV 1) was studied using whole cells and cell homogenates. Pyrimidines and pyrimidine nucleosides were readily incorporated into nucleic acids. Orotate and aspartate were not incorporated into pyrimidine bases. Enzymes of the pyrimidine salvage pathway (i.e., thymidine and uridine phosphorylases and uridine kinase) were detected in trophozoite homogenates, but the activities of de novo pyrimidine synthesis enzymes (i.e., carbamoylphosphate synthase, aspartate transcarbamoylase, dihydroorotase and dihydroorotate dehydrogenase) were below the level of detection in these same homogenates. The evidence presented supports the proposal that T. foetus is incapable of synthesizing pyrimidines de novo but is capable of salvaging preformed pyrimidines and pyrimidine nucleosides from the growth medium and that enzymes of this parasite's pyrimidine salvage pathway are not organelle-associated.
Correlation of substrate-stabilization patterns with proposed mechanisms for three nucleoside phosphorylases.	Substrate-stabilization of uridine phosphorylase (uridine:orthophosphate ribosyltransferase, EC 2.4.2.3), thymidine phosphorylase (thymidine:orthophosphate deoxyribosyltransferase, EC 2.4.2.4) and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase (purine-nucleoside:orthophosphate ribosyltransferase, EC 2.4.2.1) from Escherichia coli was investigated by heat-inactivation experiments. Nucleoside substrates stabilized uridine phosphorylase and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase, but not thymidine phosphorylase. Aglycone substrates stabilized only uridine phosphorylase. Phosphate or pentose-1-phosphate ester substrates stabilized all three enzymes. The appropriate pentose-1-phosphate ester was a more effective stabilizer than was phosphate with all three enzymes. In previous reports dealing with the kinetic analysis of these phosphorylases, sequential mechanisms were proposed. Each enzyme appeared to have different sequence of substrate addition. The substrate-stabilization patterns reported here are consistent with the proposed mechanisms.
High concentrations of immunoreactive gliostatin/platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in synovial fluid and serum of rheumatoid arthritis.	Since neovascularization plays an important role in the propagation of rheumatoid synovitis, we analyzed the concentration of gliostatin/platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (GLS/PD-ECGF), a potent angiogenic and chemotactic factor, in the synovial fluid and serum of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. The immunoreactive GLS/PD-ECGF concentrations (mean value +/- S.D.) in synovial fluid, measured by a sandwich enzyme immunoassay, were significantly higher in RA patients than in osteoarthritis (OA) patients (233.02 +/- 219.40 vs. 9.09 +/- 14.86 ng/g, P < 0.001), and the serum concentrations were also higher in RA patients than in age-matched controls (8.77 +/- 7.60 vs. 3.74 +/- 2.61 ng/ml, P < 0.005). These results suggest that GLS/PD-ECGF may participate in the endothelial proliferation resulting in initiation of the extensive emigration of mononuclear cells and proliferation of the synovial tissues in rheumatoid arthritis, and that the immunoreactive GLS/PD-ECGF in serum as well as synovial fluids may be a useful diagnostic marker of RA.
De novo synthesis of thymidylate via deoxycytidine in dcd (dCTP deaminase) mutants of Escherichia coli.	dcd (dCTP deaminase) mutants of Escherichia coli were reported not to require thymidine for growth even though most of the thymidylate that is synthesized de novo arises from cytosine nucleotides through a pathway involving dCTP deaminase. We found, however, that the fresh introduction of dcd mutations into many strains of E. coli produced a requirement for thymidine for optimum aerobic growth, but the mutants readily reverted to prototrophy via mutations in other genes. One such mutation was in deoA, the gene for deoxyuridine phosphorylase. However, a dcd deo mutant became thymidine dependent once again if a cdd mutation (affecting deoxycytidine deaminase) were introduced. The results indicate that dcd mutants utilize an alternative pathway of TMP synthesis in which deoxycytidine and deoxyuridine are intermediates. A cdd mutation blocks the pathway by preventing the conversion of deoxycytidine to deoxyuridine, whereas a deoA mutation enhances it by sparing deoxyuridine from catabolism. The deoxycytidine must arise from dCTP or dCDP via unknown steps. It is not known to what extent this pathway is utilized in wild-type cells, which, unlike the dcd mutants, do not accumulate dCTP.
The expression of platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in human bladder cancer.	Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF) is an angiogenic factor and in some studies PD-ECGF/dTdRPase expression levels in several kind of cancers were higher than in their surrounding normal tissues. In this study, we evaluated PD-ECGF/dTdRPase expression in bladder cancer by an immunohistological method and determined whether it correlated with tumor stage, grade and recurrence. PD-ECGF/dTdRPase expression was correlated with tumor grade and stage. Furthermore, among the superficial tumors, PD-ECGF/dTdRPase expression was correlated with a recurrence-free rate and thus it might be a prognostic factor for the recurrence of superficial bladder cancer.
Bioactive factors affect proliferation and phenotypic expression in progenitor and pluripotent stem cells.	Progenitor and pluripotent stem cells reside within connective tissue compartments. They are also present in granulation tissue. This study examined the effects of treating these two cell populations with eight bioactive factors. Cells were assayed for DNA content as a measure of proliferation and for tissue-specific phenotypic markers as measures of lineage progression and lineage commitment. Platelet-derived endothelial growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-II did not induce proliferation in either population. However, dexamethasone, insulin, insulin-like growth factor-I, muscle morphogenetic protein, platelet-derived growth factor-AA, and platelet-derived growth factor-BB stimulated proliferation in one or both cell populations. Platelet-derived growth factor-BB was the most potent stimulator of proliferation in either population. Phenotypic expression markers were induced in the progenitor cells by insulin, insulin-like growth factor-I, insulin-like growth factor-II, dexamethasone, and muscle morphogenetic protein. However, only dexamethasone and muscle morphogenetic protein induced phenotypic expression markers in the pluripotent cells. Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor-AA, and platelet-derived growth factor-BB did not induce phenotypic expression markers in progenitor or pluripotent cells. This study suggests the potential for using progenitor and pluripotent cells as an in vitro model to ascertain the effects of various bioactive factors on stem cells potentially involved in tissue maintenance and repair.
Expression of two angiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in human pancreatic cancer, and its relationship to angiogenesis.	Tumour angiogenesis, as assayed by microvessel density (MVD), and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF) have become established as important prognostic indicators for many tumour types. In this study, MVD and the expression of VEGF and PD-ECGF were examined by immunohistochemical staining of 50 pancreatic cancer tissues, and the relationships between either MVD or the expression of these two angiogenic factors and the clinicopathological features, including survival, were analysed. The expression of VEGF and PD-ECGF proteins were confirmed by Western blot analysis and VEGF mRNA isoforms were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in five pancreatic cancer cell lines. Twenty-eight (56%) of 50 pancreatic cancers were positive for VEGF protein in cancer cells, and 16 (32%) showed strong PD-ECGF staining in cancer and infiltrating cells. VEGF121 and VEGF165 were identified as the predominant species produced in pancreatic cancer cells. The overexpression of VEGF and PD-ECGF protein significantly correlated with high MVD (P = 0.002, 0.044, respectively). Advanced stage of disease was significantly more frequent in patients with high MVD (P = 0.025). No significant association was found between the expression of VEGF or PD-ECGF and clinicopathological features, except for tumour histology. The expression of PD-ECGF correlated with poor survival (P = 0.011), but MVD and VEGF expression were not found to be useful for the prediction of overall survival. This study suggests that VEGF and PD-ECGF may play an important role in tumour angiogenesis, and that PD-ECGF expression seems to be useful for establishing prognoses for pancreatic cancer.
Design of a novel oral fluoropyrimidine carbamate, capecitabine, which generates 5-fluorouracil selectively in tumours by enzymes concentrated in human liver and cancer tissue.	Capecitabine (N4-pentyloxycarbonyl-5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine) is a novel oral fluoropyrimidine carbamate, which is converted to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) selectively in tumours through a cascade of three enzymes. The present study investigated tissue localisation of the three enzymes in humans, which was helpful for us to design the compound. Carboxylesterase was almost exclusively located in the liver and hepatoma, but not in other tumours and normal tissue adjacent to the tumours. Cytidine (Cyd) deaminase was located in high concentrations in the liver and various types of solid tumours. Finally, thymidine phosphorylase (dThdPase) was also more concentrated in various types of tumour tissues than in normal tissues. These unique tissue localisation patterns enabled us to design capecitabine. Oral capecitabine would pass intact through the intestinal tract, but would be converted first by carboxylesterase to 5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5'-dFCyd) in the liver, then by Cyd deaminase to 5'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5'-dFUrd) in the liver and tumour tissues and finally by dThdPase to 5-FU in tumours. In cultures of human cancer cell lines, the highest level of cytotoxicity was shown by 5-FU itself, followed by 5'-dFUrd. Capecitabine and 5'-dFCyd had weak cytotoxic activity only at high concentrations. The cytotoxicity of the intermediate metabolites 5'-dFCyd and 5'-dFCyd was suppressed by inhibitors of Cyd deaminase and dThdPase, respectively, indicating that these metabolites become effective only after their conversion to 5-FU. Capecitabine, which is finally converted to 5-FU by dThdPase in tumours, should be much safer and more effective than 5-FU, and this was indeed the case in the HCT116 human colon cancer and the MX-1 breast cancer xenograft models.
