Retinoic acid repressed the expression of c-fos and c-jun and induced apoptosis in regenerating rat liver after partial hepatectomy.	Retinoic acid (RA), which was injected within 4 h after partial hepatectomy (PH), inhibited DNA synthesis in regenerating liver. The inhibition was accompanied by apoptosis, evidenced by in situ end labeling and gel electrophoresis of DNA fragmentation. Characteristic DNA fragmentation was obvious at 4 h and reached a maximum at 8 h after injection. Northern blot analysis revealed that RA repressed the expression of c-fos and c-jun at 15 and 30 min with the up-regulation of retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARgamma) and RARbeta at 2 h after PH. The transglutaminase II mRNA level and activity were increased by RA injection at 4 h and 8 h after PH, respectively. The mRNA levels of thymidylate synthase and thymidine kinase, which are rate determining enzymes of DNA synthesis, decreased in RA injected rats. No change was seen in the expression of p53 and p21WAF1/CIP1 which have been suggested to participate in the apoptosis process. These results suggest that RA exerts the antiproliferative activity only on the early stage of liver regeneration accompanied by the repression of c-fos and c-jun expression and induction of apoptosis.
Comparative analysis of HPLC profile of cytosolic thymidine kinase activity between hepatoma and regenerating liver in rat with reference to phosphorylation.	Thymidine kinase (TK) activity in rat hepatoma JB1 and AH136B was mainly due to cytosolic TK and was much higher than that in rat regenerating liver. Two forms of cytosolic TK, designated as TK-I and TK-II, were revealed in addition to mitochondrial TK in anion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of the enzyme extract from hepatoma JB1. During incubation of the enzyme extract at 20 degrees C in the presence of phosphatase inhibitor NaF, TK-II activity remained while TK-I activity almost disappeared. Thus, TK-II appeared to be more stable than TK-I. In Western blot analysis, TK-II was much more phosphorylated and exhibiting higher specific activity than TK-I. Meanwhile, regenerating liver derived from the rat 24 h after partial hepatectomy showed only TK-I activity, which completely disappeared after incubation at 20 degrees C even in the presence of NaF. Consequently, the presence of TK-II might account for the higher TK activity in hepatomas than in regenerating liver.
Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase/ganciclovir-induced apoptosis involves ligand-independent death receptor aggregation and activation of caspases.	Suicide gene therapy systems such as the herpes simplex thymidine kinase/ganciclovir system (TK/GCV) may kill cancer cells by apoptosis through as yet undefined mechanisms. Here we show that TK/GCV treatment induces p53 accumulation and increases cell surface expression of CD95 and tumor necrosis factor receptor, which is likely to involve p53-mediated translocation of CD95 to the cell surface. TK/GCV-induced apoptosis involves CD95-L-independent CD95 aggregation leading to the formation of a Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD) and caspase-8-containing, death-inducing signaling complex. Dominant negative FADD, the caspase-8 inhibitor zIETD-fmk [Z-Ile-Glu(OMe)-Thr-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethylketone], and zVAD-fmk (Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone) partially abrogate TK/GCV-induced apoptosis. In addition to apoptosis induction, TK/GCV treatment strongly sensitizes for CD95-L-, TNF-, and TNF-related, apoptosis-inducing, ligand (TRAIL)-induced cell death in constitutively resistant cells. These findings may be used to increase the efficacy of TK/GCV and other suicide gene therapy systems for the treatment of cancer.
Zidovudine phosphorylation and mitochondrial toxicity in vitro.	Zidovudine (ZDV) is a thymidine analogue activated to its triphosphate (ZDVTP) by the host's intracellular enzymes. The initial phosphorylation step is conversion to ZDV monophosphate (ZDVMP). The poor affinity of ZDVMP for thymidylate kinase results in intracellular accumulation of ZDVMP. Clinical use of ZDV is associated with cytotoxicity, thought to be mediated through mitochondrial damage. It has been suggested that ZDV cytotoxicity correlates with intracellular ZDVMP. Here we have further studied the role of ZDVMP in cytotoxicity and some of the mechanisms involved. Intracellular metabolism of ZDV in five lymphocyte/monocyte cell lines, U937, BSM, MOLT 4, JJAHN, and RAJI (4 x 10(6) cells), was investigated following 24 h incubation with [(3)H]ZDV (1.2 microCi; 0.1 microM) and cytotoxicity was determined by the MTT assay. Cytotoxicity was closely related to intracellular concentrations of the major metabolite (ZDVMP) but not with the active metabolite ZDVTP. ZDVMP was the only metabolite detected following incubation of viable mitochondria isolated from U937 cells with ZDV (1.2 microCi; 0.1 microM; 24 h) with mitochondrial levels of 0.27 +/- 0.11 pmol/microg protein (mean +/- SD; n = 3). No MTT toxicity was seen in isolated mitochondria. Following phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells there was an increase in ZDV cytotoxicity compared to unstimulated cells. The results suggest that the mitochondrial isozyme of thymidine kinase (TK2) plays only a minor part in ZDVMP formation. Following PHA stimulation, activation of the cytosolic thymidine kinase isozyme (TK1) is associated with increased toxicity of ZDV. We conclude that ZDVMP responsible for mitochondrial toxicity is formed in the cytosol.
Involvement of proteasome alpha-subunit PSMA7 in hepatitis C virus internal ribosome entry site-mediated translation.	Ribozymes are small catalytic RNA molecules that can be engineered to enzymatically cleave RNA transcripts in a sequence-specific fashion and thereby inhibit expression and function of the corresponding gene product. With their simple structures and site-specific cleavage activity, they have been exploited as potential therapeutic agents in a variety of human disorders, including hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. We have designed a hairpin ribozyme (Rz3'X) targeting the HCV minus-strand replication intermediate at position 40 within the 3'X tail. Surprisingly, Rz3'X was found to induce ganciclovir (GCV)-resistant colonies in a bicistronic cellular reporter system with HCV internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-dependent translation of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (TK). Rz3'X-transduced GCV-resistant HeLa reporter cells showed substantially reduced IRES-mediated HCV core protein translation compared with control vector-transduced cells. Since these reporter systems do not contain the HCV 3'X tail sequences, the results indicate that Rz3'X probably exerted an inhibitory effect on HCV IRES activity fortuitously through another gene target. A novel technique of ribozyme cleavage-based target gene identification (cleavage-specific amplification of cDNA ends) (M. Krüger, C. Beger, P. J. Welch, J. R. Barber, and F. Wong-Staal, Nucleic Acids Res. 29:e94, 2001) revealed that human 20S proteasome alpha-subunit PSMA7 mRNA was a target RNA recognized and cleaved by Rz3'X. We then showed that additional ribozymes directed against PSMA7 RNA inhibited HCV IRES activity in two assay systems: GCV resistance in the HeLa IRES TK reporter cell system and a transient transfection assay performed with a bicistronic Renilla-HCV IRES-firefly luciferase reporter in Huh7 cells. In contrast, ribozymes were inactive against IRES of encephalomyocarditis virus and human rhinovirus. Additionally, proteasome inhibitor MG132 exerted a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on HCV IRES-mediated translation but not on cap-dependent translation. These data suggest a principal role for PSMA7 in regulating HCV IRES activity, a function essential for HCV replication.
Transcription enhancer factor 1 binds multiple muscle MEF2 and A/T-rich elements during fast-to-slow skeletal muscle fiber type transitions.	In adult mouse skeletal muscle, beta-myosin heavy chain (betaMyHC) gene expression is primarily restricted to slow type I fibers; however, its expression can be induced in fast type II fibers in response to a sustained increase in load-bearing work (mechanical overload [MOV]). Our previous betaMyHC transgenic and protein-DNA interaction studies have identified an A/T-rich element (betaA/T-rich -269/-258) that is required for slow muscle expression and which potentiates MOV responsiveness of a 293-bp betaMyHC promoter (beta293wt). Despite the GATA/MEF2-like homology of this element, we found binding of two unknown proteins that were antigenically distinct from GATA and MEF2 isoforms. By using the betaA/T-rich element as bait in a yeast one-hybrid screen of an MOV-plantaris cDNA library, we identified nominal transcription enhancer factor 1 (NTEF-1) as the specific betaA/T-rich binding factor. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis confirmed that NTEF-1 represents the enriched binding activity obtained only when the betaA/T-rich element is reacted with MOV-plantaris nuclear extract. Moreover, we show that TEF proteins bind MEF2 elements located in the control region of a select set of muscle genes. In transient-coexpression assays using mouse C2C12 myotubes, TEF proteins transcriptionally activated a 293-bp betaMyHC promoter devoid of any muscle CAT (MCAT) sites, as well as a minimal thymidine kinase promoter-luciferase reporter gene driven by three tandem copies of the desmin MEF2 or palindromic Mt elements or four tandem betaA/T-rich elements. These novel findings suggest that in addition to exerting a regulatory effect by binding MCAT elements, TEF proteins likely contribute to regulation of skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle gene networks by binding select A/T-rich and MEF2 elements under basal and hypertrophic conditions.
Effects of carcinogenesis on colonic thymidine kinase activity in familial adenomatous polyposis.	Thymidine kinase (TK) activity of polyp tissue from patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) was measured and compared with that of non-tumorous colon, sporadic polyp and colorectal carcinoma tissues. Total TK activity in colonic carcinoma was 3-fold that of non-tumorous colon; its increase seems attributable mainly to increased activity of cytosolic TK isozyme activity. By using DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, the colorectal TK isozymes were separated into two types, i.e. two isozymes, referred to as the fetal (predominantly cytosolic) and adult (predominantly mitochondrial) types. However, FAP polyp samples from 15 patients showed an average elevation of only 1.8-fold over non-tumorous region of colon. Examined individually, only 5 of the 15 FAP samples showed significant elevations in total TK activity. Furthermore, TK isozyme analysis revealed variable patterns of the cytosolic isozyme activity, which was elevated in some cases (8/15) and remained low in others. Thus FAP polyps seem to be a heterogeneous population with respect to DNA replicative activity, and cytosolic TK isozyme activity may constitute a biochemical marker for the subsequent development of colorectal carcinoma in FAP.
Synthesis and antiviral activity of 1-cyclobutyl-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil nucleoside analogues and related compounds.	A series of racemic (1 alpha (E), 2 beta, 3 alpha)-1-[2,3-bis(hydroxymethyl)cyclobutyl]-5-(2-halovinyl)uracils was synthesized and evaluated in cell culture. The bromovinyl, iodovinyl, and chlorovinyl analogues, 13, 15, and 16, respectively, are all potent inhibitors of varicella zoster virus (VZV), but are less inhibitory to the replication of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2 (HSV-1, HSV-2). The excellent anti-VZV activities of 13, 15, and 16 coupled with their virtual inability to inhibit WI-38 cell growth indicate high in vitro therapeutic indices. VZV thymidine kinase readily converts these compounds to their respective monophosphates but not to their corresponding diphosphates. Compound 13a, the (1'R) enantiomer of the bromovinyl analogue 13, was also synthesized, and its potency is comparable to that of the racemate. A lower homologue 14, (1 alpha (E),2 beta, 3 alpha)-1-[2-hydroxy-3-(hydroxymethyl)cyclobutyl]-5- (2-bromovinyl)uracil, was found to be inactive against VZV, HCMV, HSV-1, and HSV-2.
Negative selection using thymidine kinase increases the efficiency of recovery of transformants with targeted genes in the filamentous fungus Leptosphaeria maculans.	A vector system was constructed that is designed to decrease the number of transformants required to be screened when looking for gene disruption events in filamentous fungi. This vector was used to mutate two genes, an ATP-binding cassette transporter ( LmABCt4) and a two-component histidine kinase gene ( LmHK1) in the ascomycete Leptosphaeria maculans. The system uses the thymidine kinase gene from the herpes simplex virus as a negative selectable marker. Thymidine kinase expression is regulated by the TrpC regulatory elements from Aspergillus nidulans and should be applicable to other ascomycetous fungi. When thymidine kinase is expressed in the presence of particular thymidine analogues, these analogues are converted to toxic compounds which kill the cell. We also report the transformation of L. maculans using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated DNA delivery.
Synthesis and evaluation of 2'-deoxy-2'-18F-fluoro-5-fluoro-1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyluracil as a potential PET imaging agent for suicide gene expression.	2'-deoxy-2'-(18)F-fluoro-5-fluoro-1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyluracil ((18)F-FFAU) has been synthesized and evaluated in HT-29 cells as a potential PET agent for herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV1-tk) gene expression.
Using higher-order crossings to distinguish liver regeneration indices in hepatectomized diabetic and non-diabetic rats.	Diabetes mellitus is implicated in several liver diseases; hence, its potential affection to liver regenerative capacity is an open research question. So far, only sporadic studies have addressed this issue, mainly using basic statistical techniques. The current study evaluated the ability of a novel technique, namely higher-order crossings (HOC), based on liver DNA biosynthesis and thymidine kinase (TK) enzymatic activity data, to discriminate liver regeneration processes between hepatectomized diabetic and non-diabetic rats.
Opposite responses of nuclear spermidine N8-acetyltransferase and histone acetyltransferase activities to regenerative stimuli in rat liver.	Experiments performed in different models of hepatic regeneration at the time of maximal DNA synthesis, determined by thymidine kinase activity assay, demonstrated that spermidine N8-acetyltransferase activity increased 48 hr after CCl4 administration (2-fold), 72 hr after CCl4 plus phenobarbital (3-fold) and 24 hr after partial hepatectomy (4.5-fold). On the contrary, at these times histone acetyltransferase activity diminished (approximately twofold) and was unchanged compared with control values in the liver of hepatotoxin-treated and hepatectomized rats, respectively. Histone acetylation was, however, enhanced 1.5-fold before the onset of DNA replication (14 hr), and 3.4-fold after the peak of DNA synthesis (32 hr) in the liver of hepatectomized rats. alpha-Difluoromethylornithine, a specific and irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase that was administered to hepatectomized rats, blocked polyamine synthesis, thymidine kinase activity and consequently liver regeneration 24 hr after the surgery. In those conditions, spermidine N8-acetyltransferase activity was decreased approximately twofold, whereas histone acetyltransferase activity was elevated approximately twofold. All these effects were reversed by putrescine coadministration. Altogether, these findings showed that nuclear spermidine N8-acetyltransferase and histone acetyltransferase activities were regulated in opposite ways during the processes associated with liver regeneration. Moreover, they suggested that the polyamines themselves might have a direct or indirect role in this regulation.
Simultaneous determination of thymidylate and thymidine diphosphate by capillary electrophoresis as a rapid monitoring tool for thymidine kinase and thymidylate kinase activities.	A simple and rapid capillary electrophoretic method was developed for the simultaneous determination of thymidylate (TMP) and thymidine 5'-diphosphate (TDP) in enzyme assays without using radioactive-labeled substrates. Prior to electrophoretic separation, addition of acetonitrile and sodium chloride to the assay solution and brief centrifugation are recommended for the purpose of sample cleanup and sample stacking. The separation of micromolar TMP and TDP from millimolar adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) was performed at 25 degrees C using sodium tetraborate as the background electrolyte. Under the optimal condition, a good separation with high efficiency was achieved in 6 min. Several parameters affecting the separation were studied, including the pH of electrolyte, the applied voltage, and acetonitrile-salt sample stacking. The fronting of the ATP peak resulting from the interference of magnesium ion in the enzyme assay buffer was suppressed by the addition of sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate to the sample solution. Using deoxyadenylate as an internal standard, the linear range of the method was 5-200 microM, and the concentration limits of detection of TMP and TDP were 2.6 and 3.8 microM, respectively. Application of the proposed method for simultaneous determination of TMP and TDP in enzyme assays was demonstrated by the activity assays of thymidine kinase and thymidylate kinase from white spot syndrome virus. This is a sensitive, nonradioactive method for thymidine kinase and thymidylate kinase assays.
Thymidine and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine metabolism in human peripheral blood lymphocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages. A study of both anabolic and catabolic pathways.	3'-Azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) is HIV-inhibitory in human macrophages, which is surprising in view of the low AZT phosphorylation reported in macrophage extracts. To elucidate the mechanism of AZT activation, we studied AZT anabolism as well as catabolism in human lymphocytes and macrophages, and compared it to that of thymidine. Thymidine kinase (TK)-specific activity in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes was 15 times higher than in macrophages. However, the TK activity per cell was only 1.3 times higher, because of the large macrophage cell volume. Total cellular TK activity, but not specific activity, matched the level of intracellular AZT anabolism. The substrate specificity of TK in macrophages strongly suggests that mitochondrial TK2 was the enzyme phosphorylating thymidine and AZT in these cells, whereas it was cytosolic TK1 in stimulated lymphocytes. In vivo thymidine catabolism was extensive, forming thymine and dihydrothymine. In macrophages more than 95% of the added thymidine (0.5 microM) was degraded within 60 min. AZT, in contrast, was not catabolized, which explains the high AZT nucleotide accumulation, a process opposed only by AZTMP excretion. The lack of catabolism together with phosphorylation by TK2 clarifies how AZT can inhibit human immunodeficiency virus in macrophages. The fact that TK2 and not TK1 phosphorylates AZT in macrophages should have important implications for combination chemotherapy.
P-glycoprotein content and mediation of vincristine efflux: correlation with the level of differentiation in luminal epithelium of mouse small intestine.	Luminal epithelium from mouse small intestine was fractionated into four distinct components ranging from the most differentiated (absorptive epithelial cells, fraction I) to the least differentiated (proliferative crypt cells, fraction IV). Immunoblot analysis of these fractions with monoclonal antibodies to P-glycoprotein, C219, and HYB-241, indicated that the amount of P-glycoprotein increased in cells as they progressed in level of differentiation from crypt to the villar surface of the lumen of the small intestine. P-glycoprotein in these normal intestinal cells functioned as a transporter of vincristine, one of a group of cancer chemotherapeutic agents to which cells can develop multidrug resistance. Transport ability was shown by efflux studies with vincristine as substrate. Efflux increased with differentiation and correlated with the increase in the amount of P-glycoprotein. Fraction I cells effluxed vincristine about seven times more rapidly than fraction IV cells. Efflux of vincristine was almost entirely inhibited from fraction I cells after treatment with antibody HYB-241, which recognizes an external epitope of P-glycoprotein. This finding would appear to demonstrate that P-glycoprotein was directly responsible for at least the majority of efflux of vincristine in these cells. The observed Mr of P-glycoprotein in fraction I cells was 140,000 when cells were solubilized with sodium dodecyl sulfate at room temperature before electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. When solubilized fraction I protein was heated with 2-mercaptoethanol before electrophoresis, P-glycoprotein was seen by immunochemical procedures as an Mr 50,000-55,000 protein. No Mr 170,000 or 180,000 forms of P-glycoprotein (forms that are found in multidrug-resistant cell lines and are stable to heat or sulhydryl agents) were detected in any fraction of these epithelial cells under the conditions used. Functional P-glycoprotein was, therefore, associated with differentiation of luminal epithelium in small intestine, and the P-glycoprotein produced by these cells may be a type not previously described.
Interferon alpha in the establishment of latency by herpes simplex virus type 1 strain tr.	The effect of interferon (IFN) alpha on the establishment and maintenance of neuronal latency and viral reactivation is still not known. Using cell culture methods and sensitive RT-PCR methods, we show that the presence of antiserum to IFN alpha promotes the establishment of HSV-1 tr latent infection. We suggest that IFN alpha is an important tool not only for the control of productive but also latent HSV-1 infection.
The diverse effects of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine on enzyme activities in cultured H35 hepatoma cells.	Reuber (H35) hepatoma cells were grown in medium containing 10(-5)M bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), which was incorporated into their DNA. Cell growth rate was unaffected by BrdU for the first two generations, after which it was reduced by about 50%. The effect of BrdU incorporation on the activities of several enzymes with rapid turnover rates was examined to test the hypothesis that the synthesis of such enzymes will be preferentially inhibited by BrdU. Tyrosine amino-transferase (TAT) activity decreased by 70% within two generations whereas thymidine kinase activity remained at control values. PEP carboxykinase activity was unchanged during the first generation in BrdU-containing medium but, during the second, its activity increased by at least 30%. Ornithine decarboxylase levels decreased by about 50% only after two generations in the presence of BrdU. There appeared to be no simple relationship between turnover rates and the effect of BrdU on enzyme activity. Incorporation of BrdU was found to inhibit the induction of both TAT and PEP carboxykinase by dexamethasone and to enhance the inhibition of cell growth by this steroid. These results are discussed with respect to possible mechanisms of gene expression and development in both normal and neoplastic cells.
Thymidine salvage changes with differentiation in human keratinocytes in vitro.	We compared the capacity of proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes to salvage and catabolize extracellular thymidine. Both populations of cells catabolized thymidine to thymine and possessed thymidine phosphorylase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate, thymidine phosphorylase activity ultimately increased twofold. In contrast, proliferating and differentiating keratinocytes differed markedly in their capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine. Proliferating keratinocytes readily salvaged extracellular thymidine to form nucleotides, whereas differentiating cells rapidly lost this capacity. The inability of differentiating cells to form nucleotides from thymidine was not attributed to reduced availability of thymidine due to catabolism but rather was the result of the rapid loss of thymidine kinase activity. As keratinocytes differentiate in suspension culture, they lose 41% of thymidine kinase activity in 8 h and over 90% of activity in 12 h. Our data indicate that loss of capacity to salvage extracellular thymidine for synthesis of nucleotides closely parallels the onset of differentiation in keratinocytes.
(S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonyl-methoxypropyl)cytosine in the therapy of thymidine kinase-positive and -deficient herpes simplex virus experimental keratitis.	The phosphonylmethoxyalkyl derivative, (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonyl methoxypropyl)cytosine (HPMPC), was evaluated for its efficacy in the topical treatment of experimental keratitis caused by thymidine kinase-positive (TK+) or thymidine kinase-deficient (TK-) herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) strains. The HPMPC 0.2% eyedrops were as effective as the reference compound, (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine, (BVDU) 0.2% eyedrops in stimulating the healing of epithelial disease caused by the HSV-1 TK+ strain. Both drugs achieved a significant (P less than 0.005) healing effect compared with placebo eyedrops. No significant differences were noted in the efficacy of HPMPC 0.2% eyedrops when instilled one, three, or nine times a day. In the treatment of keratitis caused by the HSV-1 TK- strain, 0.2% BVDU eyedrops were similar to placebo; 0.2% HPMPC eyedrops again had a brisk and significant healing effect (P less than 0.005).
Thymidine kinaseless revertants of Ltk- cells transformed by herpes simplex virus type 1 are resistant to retransformation by homologous virus.	Mouse L cells lacking thymidine kinase (Ltk-) that had been transformed to the thymidine kinase-positive (tk+) phenotype by herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) were cultured in medium containing tritiated thymidine. Six clonal lines of cells surviving this treatment were found to have the following properties: (i) the cells were tk- and had spontaneous back-reversion frequencies to the tk+ phenotype of 10(-5) or less, (ii) the cells contained HSV antigens, although in lesser amounts than in the parental transformed cells, and (iii) the cells were retransformable to the tk+ phenotype by HSV-1 at frequencies of about 1 to 13% of the frequency of the primary transformation of LtK- cells. HSV-1 plaqued as efficiently on monolayers of these cells and replicated in them to the same extent as it did in Ltk- cells. These results indicate that HSV-1-transformed L cells surviving selection with tritiated thymidine are unlike the parental Ltk- cells in that they are damaged in such a way that the cells are resistant to retransformation by homologous virus, although they remain fully permissive for virus replication.
Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase imaging in mice with (1-(2'-deoxy-2'-[18F]fluoro-1-β-D-arabinofuranosyl)-5-iodouracil) and metabolite (1-(2'-deoxy-2'-[18F]fluoro-1-β-D-arabinofuranosyl)-5-uracil).	FIAU, (1-(2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro-1-β-D-arabinofuranosyl)-5-iodouracil) has been used as a substrate for herpes simplex virus thymidine kinases (HSV-TK and HSV-tk, for protein and gene expression, respectively) and other bacterial and viral thymidine kinases for noninvasive imaging applications. Previous studies have reported the formation of a de-iodinated metabolite of 18F-FIAU. This study reports the dynamic tumor uptake, biodistribution, and metabolite contribution to the activity of 18F-FIAU seen in HSV-tk gene expressing tumors and compares the distribution properties with its de-iodinated metabolite 18F-FAU.
Cell-free synthesis of herpes simplex virus proteins.	Polyribosomes isolated from herpes simplex virus type I (HSV-1)-infected cells have been used to program a eucaryotic cell-free translation system. At least 10 HSV-specific polypeptides, with apparent molecular weights of 25,000 to 160,000, are synthesized by wild-type HSV-infected polyribosomes. Polyribosomes prepared from thymidine kinase-negative mutants of HSV direct the synthesis of three putative nonsense termination polypeptides. HSV-specific polypeptides synthesized in vitro are precipitated with antiserum to HSV-infected cell proteins.
Protective effect of vitamin A against the methotrexate-induced damage to small intestine: a study on the crypt cells.	Vitamin A (VA) protects the small intestine from the methotrexate (MTX)-induced damage. The in vivo effects of MTX and/or VA on crypt cells of small intestine were investigated using rats orally administered MTX (15 mg/kg body weight) and/or VA (5,000 IU/kg body weight). The thymidine kinase activity of crypt cells separated from villus cells of small intestine of MTX plus VA-treated rats was lower than that from control rats but higher than that from MTX-treated rats. VA-treated rats showed almost the same activity of thymidine kinase as control rats. The amounts of the end products, adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and guanosine monophosphate (GMP), contained in crypt cells of treated rats were determined to investigate the in vivo effects of MTX and/or VA on de novo purine synthesis. MTX treatment significantly decreased the amounts of both AMP and GMP but both amounts were not affected by MTX plus VA treatment. Treatment with VA alone appeared to increase their amounts slightly. Thus, although the oral administration of MTX to rats inhibited DNA synthesis in crypt cells, VA coadministration protected the salvage pathway of pyrimidine synthesis and the de novo purine synthesis in crypt cells.
Progestin stimulation of thymidine kinase in the human breast cancer cell line T47D.	Our laboratory has previously reported that progestins stimulate growth of the human breast cancer cell line T47D. In an attempt to probe further into this stimulation, we are investigating progestin effects on thymidine kinase (EC 2.7.1.21), an enzyme known to be involved in growth regulation. This report relates our finding that progestins stimulate thymidine kinase activity, at physiological progestin concentrations, in a dose-responsive manner. Estradiol-17 beta also stimulates, but testosterone, hydrocortisone and aldosterone do not. The antiprogestin RU486 inhibits progestin stimulation, but also stimulates on its own. Maximal by 24 h, the progestin stimulation then falls off with time. Experiments with actinomycin D and cycloheximide suggest that the thymidine kinase stimulation depends on new RNA and protein synthesis. These data shed further light on progestin stimulation of the growth of human breast cancer. To our knowledge, this is the first report of progestin stimulation of thymidine kinase in human breast cancer cells.
Liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy in rats with defective bilirubin conjugation or biliary excretion.	The role of conjugated bilirubin in liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy (PH) was studied in Gunn rats, in transport-mutant (TR-) rats, and in rats with extrahepatic biliary obstruction. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and thymidine kinase (TK) activities in liver homogenates and immunohistochemistry of in vivo bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation in hepatic DNA were followed as regeneration parameters at 24 and 48 hr after PH. The results relative to TK activity and BrdU incorporation were consistent with significantly delayed hepatic DNA synthesis in Gunn rats in comparison to control Wistar and TR- rats. This delay in DNA synthesis was not reflected in the hepatic ODC activity. After one week of complete common bile duct obstruction (CBO), an increased TK activity and BrdU incorporation was seen. PH following CBO resulted in a further increase in ODC activity and BrdU incorporation. TK activity did not change, however. These data relative to the regulation of hepatic DNA synthesis after PH in Gunn rats and in rats with extrahepatic biliary obstruction suggest a possible stimulatory role for conjugated bilirubin in hepatic regeneration; however, the normal hepatic DNA synthesis in TR- rats studied before PH and the subnormal DNA synthesis seen 24 hr after PH in TR- rats and in rats with CBO indicate that conjugated bilirubin does not stimulate hepatic DNA synthesis.
Cell cycle related studies on thymidine kinase and its isoenzymes in Ehrlich ascites tumours.	Thymidine kinase (TK) activity was measured in relation to the cell cycle of in vivo growing ascites tumour cells. The cells were synchronized by means of centrifugal elutriation and the cell cycle composition of the cell fractions was determined by flow cytometry. TK activity was low in G1, increased during S phase and declined in G2. A half-life of TK activity of about 45 min was found throughout the cell cycle. Four isoenzymes at pI values of 4.1, 5.3, 6.9 and 8.3, denoted as isoenzymes 1-4, were identified using isoelectric focusing. Isoenzymes 3 and 4 were responsible for the profound cell cycle related changes in the TK activity. Corresponding isoenzymes were also found in the fetal mouse liver. In the adult mouse liver isoenzyme 2 was the dominating isoenzyme. The half-life of the isoenzymes was in the same range as for the total TK activity. We conclude that the low TK activity in G1 is due to degradation of the enzyme in G2 at a normal rate combined with an arrest in the synthesis of TK. We also conclude that isoenzyme 4 and the intermediate isoenzyme 3, which had earlier been suggested to be a mitochondrial form of TK, in fact represent cytoplasmatic forms of TK. According to cell cycle and pI studies, isoenzyme 2 belongs to the mitochondrial form. Studies with various phosphor donors and specific substrates, however, indicate that it also contains a cytoplasmic component.
High catabolism of BrdU may explain unusual sister chromatid differentiation and replication banding patterns in cancer cells.	Two T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cell lines, PEER and CCRF-CEM, were studied by various chromosome banding techniques, including 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation methods. Although of very similar origin, these two cell lines behave quite differently. In particular, CEM cell line exhibited an abnormal replication banding pattern (RBP) and poor sister chromatid differentiation (SCD). Study of their thymidylate synthase and thymidine kinase activities indicated that CEM had a more active salvage pathway for thymidylate synthesis than did PEER cell line, which may suggest an efficient BrdU incorporation and its fast decrease in culture medium, resulting in the observed peculiarities. However, this was contradictory to the fact that CEM need a higher dose of BrdU than do PEER cells to induce SCD and RBP. Finally, the radioactivity from 3H-thymidine decreased in the culture medium much faster for PEER cell line than for CEM cell line, and about 50% of the remaining radioactivity was due to 3H-thymidine for CEM cell line. Thus, the abnormal SCD and RBP are explained by an active catabolism of thymidine and BrdU in CEM cell line.
Nonpolar nucleoside mimics as active substrates for human thymidine kinases.	We describe the use of nonpolar nucleoside analogues of systematically varied size and shape to probe the mechanisms by which the two human thymidine kinases (TK1 and TK2) recognize and phosphorylate their substrate, thymidine. Comparison of polar thymidine with a nonpolar isostere, 2,4-difluorotoluene deoxyriboside, as substrates for the two enzymes establishes that TK1 requires electrostatic complementarity to recognize the thymine base with high efficiency. Conversely, TK2 does not and phosphorylates the hydrophobic shape mimic with efficiency nearly the same as the natural substrate. To test the response to nucleobase size, thymidine-like analogues were systematically varied by replacing the 2,4 substituents on toluene with hydrogen and the halogen series (H, F, Cl, Br, I). Both enzymes showed a distinct preference for substrates having the natural size. To examine the shape preference, we prepared four mono- and difluorotoluene deoxyribosides with varying positions of substitutions. While TK1 did not accept these nonpolar analogues as substrates, TK2 did show varying levels of phosphorylation of the shape-varied set. This latter enzyme preferred toluene nucleoside analogues having steric projections at the 2 and 4 positions, as is found in thymine, and strongly disfavored substitution at the 3-position. Steady-state kinetics measurements showed that the 4-fluoro compound (7) had an apparent V(max)/K(m) value within 14-fold of the natural substrate, and the 2,4-difluoro compound (1), which is the closest isostere of thymidine, had a value within 2.5-fold. The results establish that nucleoside recognition mechanisms for the two classes of enzymes are very different. On the basis of these data, nonpolar nucleosides are likely to be active in the nucleotide salvage pathway in human cells, suggesting new designs for future bioactive molecules.
Inhibition of DNA synthesis and alteration of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate levels in RSa cells by human leukocyte interferon.	Human leukocyte interferon inhibits the proliferation of the virus-transformed human embryonic cells RSa. Incorporation of [3H]thymidine (TdR) into an intracellular pool and the activity of TdR kinase were reduced in the interferon-treated RSa cell culture. High-degree (90%) inhibition of [3H]TdR incorporation was associated with concentrations of added interferon that produced more than a twofold increase in the intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) level, and low-degree inhibition was associated with smaller increases in cAMP. In the IFr cell culture, which is relatively resistant to the anticellular action of interferon, considerably less inhibition of TdR incorporation and a slight increase in cAMP were observed. Extracellularly added dibutyryl-cAMP inhibited the proliferation of both RSa and IFr cells to almost the same degree. A decrease in cAMP level and the initiation of DNA synthesis of G1-phase-arrested RSa cells by serum addition were prevented when cells were pretreated with interferon. These results indicated that intracellular cAMP may mediate the inhibitory effect of interferon on DNA synthesis and cell growth.
Human placental cells transformed by tsA mutants of simian virus 40: a model system for the study of placental functions.	Human placental cells were transformed with wild-type simian virus 40 (SV40) and temperature-sensitive SV40 mutants of the A and B classes. Four criteria for transformation were used: decreased generation time, increased saturation density, increased efficiency of growth on plastic, and ability to overgrow a nontransformed monolayer. Cell lines transformed by tsA mutants lost the transformed phenotype at the restrictive temperature (40 degrees); therefore, the A function of SV40 is required for the maintenance of the transformed phenotype activity, an inhibition of human chorionic gonadotropin synthesis, and an increase in thymidine kinase activity were seen when human placental cells transformed by wild-type or tsB mutants of SV40 were grown at 33 degrees or 40 degrees and when tsA transformants were grown at 33 degrees. When tsA transformants were grown at 40 degrees, alkaline phosphatase activity and human chorionic gonadotropin synthesis were greatly stimulated and thymidine kinase activity was greatly reduced, approximating their levels in the placenta.
Determinants of individual variation in intracellular accumulation of anti-HIV nucleoside analog metabolites.	Individual variation in response to antiretroviral therapy is well-known, but it is not clear if demographic characteristics such as gender, age, and ethnicity are responsible for the variation. To optimize anti-HIV therapy and guide antiretroviral drug discovery, determinants that cause variable responses to therapy need to be evaluated. We investigated the determinants of intracellular concentrations of nucleoside analogs using peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 40 healthy donors. We observed individual differences in the concentrations of the intracellular nucleoside analogs; the mean concentrations of the triphosphate metabolite of ethynylstavudine (4'-Ed4T), zidovudine (AZT), and lamivudine (3TC) were 0.71 pmol/10(6) cells (minimum and maximum, 0.10 and 3.00 pmol/10(6) cells, respectively), 0.88 pmol/10(6) cells (minimum and maximum, 0.10 and 15.18 pmol/10(6) cells, respectively), and 1.70 pmol/10(6) cells (minimum and maximum, 0.20 and 7.73 pmol/10(6) cells, respectively). Gender and ethnicity had no effect on the concentration of 4'-Ed4T and 3TC metabolites. There was a trend for moderation of the concentrations of AZT metabolites by gender (P = 0.17 for gender·metabolite concentration). We observed variability in the activity and expression of cellular kinases. There was no statistically significant correlation between thymidine kinase 1 (TK-1) activity or expression and thymidine analog metabolite concentrations. The correlation between the activity of deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) and the 3TC monophosphate metabolite concentration showed a trend toward significance (P = 0.1). We observed an inverse correlation between the multidrug-resistant protein 2 (MRP2) expression index and the concentrations of AZT monophosphate, AZT triphosphate, and total AZT metabolites. Our findings suggest that the observed variation in clinical response to nucleoside analogs may be due partly to the individual differences in the intracellular concentrations, which in turn may be affected by the cellular kinases involved in the phosphorylation pathway and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transport proteins.
Tumoricidal bystander effect in the suicide gene therapy using mesenchymal stem cells does not injure normal brain tissues.	In our previous rat study, an established intracranial C6 glioma was successfully treated using intratumoral injection of mesenchymal stem cells transduced with the herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase gene (MSCtk) and systemic administration of ganciclovir (GCV). In the present study, effect of the "bystander effect" associated with the MSCtk/GCV strategy on the background normal brain tissues was examined in both in vitro and in vivo conditions. Rat MSCtk and C6 glioma cells were mixed and seeded on the rat primary neuron and glia co-culture in the medium containing GCV to generate the bystander effect and the numbers of background cells were counted on day 0, 2 and 7. Though the number of MSCtk and C6 cells decreased rapidly due to the bystander effect, most of the neurons and glias survived on day 7. Next, rats were intracranially injected with the MSCtk and C6 cells and then intraperitoneally administered with GCV for 7days. No remarkable histological abnormality including apoptosis was observed in the background brain tissues near the injection site. The present study has demonstrated that the tumoricidal bystander effect does not injure the background normal brain tissue significantly and that the suicide gene therapies are sufficiently safe.
LigSeeSVM: ligand-based virtual screening using support vector machines and data fusion.	Ligand-based in silico drug screening is useful for lead discovery, in particular for those targets without structures. Here, we have developed LigSeeSVM, a ligand-based screening tool using data fusion and Support Vector Machines (SVMs). We used Atom Pair (AP) structure descriptors and Physicochemical (PC) descriptors of compounds to generate SVM-AP and SVM-PC models. Sequentially, the two models were combined using rank-based data fusion to create LigSeeSVM model. LigSeeSVM was evaluated on five data sets. Experimental results show that the performance of LigSeeSVM is better than other ligand-based virtual screening approaches. We believe that LigSeeSVM is useful for lead compounds.
Synthesis and evaluation of nucleoside radiotracers for imaging proliferation.	Uncontrolled proliferation is a fundamental characteristic of cancer, and consequently, imaging of tumor proliferative status finds interest clinically both as a diagnostic tool and for evaluation of response to treatment. Positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracers based on a nucleoside core, such as 3'-[18F]fluoro-3'-deoxythymidine ([18F]FLT), have been extensively studied for this purpose. However, [18F]FLT suffers from poor DNA incorporation leading to occasional poor correlation of [18F]FLT tumor uptake with other proliferation indicators such as Ki-67 immunostaining.
Initiation of genome instability and preneoplastic processes through loss of Fhit expression.	Genomic instability drives tumorigenesis, but how it is initiated in sporadic neoplasias is unknown. In early preneoplasias, alterations at chromosome fragile sites arise due to DNA replication stress. A frequent, perhaps earliest, genetic alteration in preneoplasias is deletion within the fragile FRA3B/FHIT locus, leading to loss of Fhit protein expression. Because common chromosome fragile sites are exquisitely sensitive to replication stress, it has been proposed that their clonal alterations in cancer cells are due to stress sensitivity rather than to a selective advantage imparted by loss of expression of fragile gene products. Here, we show in normal, transformed, and cancer-derived cell lines that Fhit-depletion causes replication stress-induced DNA double-strand breaks. Using DNA combing, we observed a defect in replication fork progression in Fhit-deficient cells that stemmed primarily from fork stalling and collapse. The likely mechanism for the role of Fhit in replication fork progression is through regulation of Thymidine kinase 1 expression and thymidine triphosphate pool levels; notably, restoration of nucleotide balance rescued DNA replication defects and suppressed DNA breakage in Fhit-deficient cells. Depletion of Fhit did not activate the DNA damage response nor cause cell cycle arrest, allowing continued cell proliferation and ongoing chromosomal instability. This finding was in accord with in vivo studies, as Fhit knockout mouse tissue showed no evidence of cell cycle arrest or senescence yet exhibited numerous somatic DNA copy number aberrations at replication stress-sensitive loci. Furthermore, cells established from Fhit knockout tissue showed rapid immortalization and selection of DNA deletions and amplifications, including amplification of the Mdm2 gene, suggesting that Fhit loss-induced genome instability facilitates transformation. We propose that loss of Fhit expression in precancerous lesions is the first step in the initiation of genomic instability, linking alterations at common fragile sites to the origin of genome instability.
Glial scar borders are formed by newly proliferated, elongated astrocytes that interact to corral inflammatory and fibrotic cells via STAT3-dependent mechanisms after spinal cord injury.	Astroglial scars surround damaged tissue after trauma, stroke, infection, or autoimmune inflammation in the CNS. They are essential for wound repair, but also interfere with axonal regrowth. A better understanding of the cellular mechanisms, regulation, and functions of astroglial scar formation is fundamental to developing safe interventions for many CNS disorders. We used wild-type and transgenic mice to quantify and dissect these parameters. Adjacent to crush spinal cord injury (SCI), reactive astrocytes exhibited heterogeneous phenotypes as regards proliferation, morphology, and chemistry, which all varied with distance from lesions. Mature scar borders at 14 d after SCI consisted primarily of newly proliferated astroglia with elongated cell processes that surrounded large and small clusters of inflammatory, fibrotic, and other cells. During scar formation from 5 to 14 d after SCI, cell processes deriving from different astroglia associated into overlapping bundles that quantifiably reoriented and organized into dense mesh-like arrangements. Selective deletion of STAT3 from astroglia quantifiably disrupted the organization of elongated astroglia into scar borders, and caused a failure of astroglia to surround inflammatory cells, resulting in increased spread of these cells and neuronal loss. In cocultures, wild-type astroglia spontaneously corralled inflammatory or fibromeningeal cells into segregated clusters, whereas STAT3-deficient astroglia failed to do so. These findings demonstrate heterogeneity of reactive astroglia and show that scar borders are formed by newly proliferated, elongated astroglia, which organize via STAT3-dependent mechanisms to corral inflammatory and fibrotic cells into discrete areas separated from adjacent tissue that contains viable neurons. 
Mechanism of selective inhibition of varicella zoster virus replication by 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-E-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil.	To investigate the mechanism of action of 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-(E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil (BV-araU) on varicella zoster virus (VZV) replication, we examined the metabolism of the drug in VZV-infected cells using 14C-labeled BV-araU. [14C]BV-araU was taken up by the cells infected with thymidine kinase-positive (TK+)VZV, but not so much by TK- VZV-infected or mock infected cells. Most of the radioactivity in TK+ VZV-infected cells that were incubated with [14C]BV-araU was recovered from their acid-soluble fraction, and little from their acid-insoluble fraction. By high performance liquid chromatographic assay of the acid-soluble fraction, it was proved that BV-araU was metabolized to its 5'-monophosphate, diphosphate, and triphosphate only in TK+ VZV-infected cells. The radioactivity was not detected in VZV nucleocapsids or in VZV DNA and cellular DNA isolated from TK+ VZV-infected cells, even if BV-araU was added at a 1000 times higher concentration than the 50% inhibitory dose for VZV replication in vitro. Furthermore, it was enzymatically proved that [14C]BV-araU was selectively and effectively phosphorylated to BV-araU monophosphate by VZV TK and that affinity of BV-araU triphosphate for VZV DNA polymerase was the quite strong. From these results, it can be concluded that marked inhibition of VZV replication by BV-araU is due to selective phosphorylation of BV-araU in the TK+ VZV-infected cells and strong inhibition of VZV DNA synthesis by BV-araU triphosphate, without detectable incorporation into VZV DNA.
Metabolic activity of microcarrier attached liver cells after intraperitoneal transplantation during severe liver insufficiency in the rat.	Short- and long-term effects of intraperitoneally transplanted microcarrier attached liver cells (MAL) have been studied in two experimental models of severe liver insufficiency in the rat: subtotal hepatectomy (HX) and acute liver ischemia. Intraperitoneal transplantation of MAL immediately after subtotal hepatectomy resulted in a significantly lower plasma ammonia level, a higher caffeine clearance, a higher urea production and a significantly smaller loss in body weight in comparison to sham transplanted control rats. Since thymidine kinase activity in the regenerating host liver was only significantly stimulated at t = 48 h it is concluded that the observed metabolic effects are mainly due to the metabolic activity of the transplanted MAL, although a small stimulative effect of MAL-TX on host liver regeneration cannot be excluded. In the course of acute liver ischemia, MAL transplantation results in delayed development of acute hepatic encephalopathy (HE), judged by clinical grading, EEG spectral analysis and Visual Evoked Response (VER) parameters. Furthermore, MAL transplantation is associated with less increased levels of plasma ammonia during acute liver ischemia.
Maintenance of dihydrofolate reductase enzyme after disappearance of DHFR mRNA during muscle cell differentiation.	Terminally differentiating mouse muscle cells were used to examine the relationship between myogenic withdrawal from the cell cycle and the levels of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) mRNA and DHFR activity. Differentiation was induced by removal of fibroblast growth factor activity from the medium. DHFR mRNA was measured by a RNase protection assay. DHFR activity was measured by a spectrophotometric assay and by a [3H]methotrexate binding assay. Proliferative myoblasts contained four DHFR mRNA molecules and 1.8 X 10(5) DHFR enzyme molecules. By 12.5 h after induction, when [3H]thymidine labeling indices showed all cells had withdrawn from the cell cycle, DHFR mRNA levels had declined to 0.7 copies per cell. In contrast, myogenic withdrawal did not result in reduced DHFR activity. Qualitatively similar results, i.e. down-regulation of mRNA and constitutive expression of activity, were observed in a methotrexate-selected muscle cell line with greater than 50-fold amplification of the DHFR gene. Enzyme synthesis rate and stability measurements indicated that persistence of DHFR activity in postreplicative cells was due to a long enzyme lifetime rather than to continued synthesis from residual normal DHFR mRNA or an alternative mRNA species not detected by the RNase protection assay. Unlike DHFR, thymidine kinase (TK) activity disappeared rapidly as muscle cells differentiated. Both DHFR mRNA and TK mRNA are expressed in a replication-dependent manner; however, the enzymes encoded by these messages are subject to different fates in postreplicative cells.
Failure of dideoxynucleosides to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus replication in cultured human macrophages.	Primary human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) were shown to have diminished deoxynucleoside kinase activities compared to T lymphoblasts, and a reduced ability to phosphorylate dideoxynucleosides with anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. These drugs, azidothymidine (AZT), dideoxycytidine (ddC), and dideoxyadenosine (ddA), which are potent anti-HIV agents in CD4 lymphocytes, did not inhibit HIV replication in MDM, even at concentrations of 100 microM. This drug concentration of AZT is approximately 100-fold higher than the levels attained in the serum of treated patients and the levels required to inhibit HIV replication in lymphocytes. These observations may explain the failure of AZT therapy to clear viremia, consistent with the presence of a drug-resistant reservoir of infected cells in vivo. New therapeutic approaches to inhibit the replication of HIV in MDM may be needed.
Differential affinities of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues for deoxythymidine and deoxycytidine kinase determine their incorporation into murine leukemia L1210 cells.	A number of 5-substituted pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside (dThd or dCyd) derivatives have been evaluated for their effects on the incorporation of dThd and dCyd into the nucleotide pool and nucleic acids of murine leukemia L1210 cells. Several observations indicate that the dThd kinase and dCyd kinase activity of the cells and the differential affinities of these enzymes for the pyrimidine deoxyribonucleosides determine the incorporation of dThd and dCyd into the cells: (i) dThd and dCyd were not incorporated into mutant L1210 cells deficient in either dThd kinase or dCyd kinase activity; (ii) for a series of 5-substituted dThd and dCyd analogues a strong correlation was found between their inhibitory effects on the incorporation of dThd or dCyd into cell material and their Ki/Km for dThd kinase and dCyd kinase (r = 0.92 and 0.97, respectively); (iii) inhibitors of DNA synthesis (i.e. araC) and RNA synthesis (i.e. actinomycin D) suppressed the incorporation of dThd, most likely due to an inhibitory activity at the dThd kinase level (through the allosteric action of dTTP or slow regeneration of dThd kinase).
Characterisation of acyclovir-resistant and -sensitive clinical herpes simplex virus isolates from an immunocompromised patient.	A detailed study was made of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) isolates from an immunocompromised patient whose infection became resistant to acyclovir (ACV) during a prolonged course of oral treatment. Three HSV isolates and 33 virus clones derived from them were characterised. The development of clinical resistance correlated with the emergence of thymidine kinase (TK) defective strains. The ACV-sensitive strains studied contained a small proportion of insensitive virus. The resistant isolate contained 0.6% of TK-positive virus which was sensitive to a relatively low concentration of ACV.
Anti-retrovirus activity of 3'-fluoro- and 3'-azido-substituted pyrimidine 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside analogues.	The 3'-fluoro-and 3'-azido-substituted derivatives of 2',3'-dideoxythymidine (ddThd), 2',3'-dideoxyuridine (ddUrd), 2',3'-dideoxy-5-ethyluridine (ddEtUrd) and 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddCyd) have been synthesized and evaluated for their anti-retrovirus activity [against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and murine Moloney sarcoma virus (MSV)]. Based on their 50% effective doses the most potent inhibitors of HIV replication in human MT4 lymphocytes were: FddThd (0.001 microM), AzddThd (0.004 microM), FddUrd (0.04 microM) and AzddUrd (0.36 microM). Their selectivity indexes were 197, 5000, 500 and 677, respectively. In contrast, none of the 3'-substituted ddEtUrd derivatives had a marked antiviral effect. The 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside analogues showed poor, if any, substrate affinity for (bacterial) dThd phosphorylase. AzddThd and FddThd inhibited human dThd kinase to a much greater extent (Ki/Km: 0.66 and 3.4, respectively) than did AzddUrd or FddUrd (Ki/Km: 71 and 171, respectively). The Ki/Km values of FddCyd and AzddCyd for human dCyd kinase were about 60. Although phosphorylation is a prerequisite for the anti-retrovirus activity of the 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside derivatives, there is no close correlation between the anti-retrovirus potency of the 3'-fluoro- and 3'-azido-substituted ddUrd, ddThd, ddEtUrd and ddCyd derivatives and their affinity for dThd kinase or dCyd kinase.
Alanine enhances jejunal sodium absorption in the presence of glucose: studies in piglet viral diarrhea.	We measured the response of jejunal sodium (Na) absorption to neutral amino acid (L-alanine) and to dipeptides (L-alanyl-L-alanine, glycylsarcosine) in normal piglets and in piglets with acute viral diarrhea after experimental infection with transmissible gastroenteritis (TGE) virus. In the TGE jejunum villi were blunted, crypts were deepened, and the epithelium was composed of relatively undifferentiated cells with reduced disaccharidase, decreased sodium-potassium-stimulated ATPase, and elevated thymidine kinase activities. The response of Na absorption to a maximal concentration of L-alanine (20 mM) or D-glucose (30 mM) was significantly blunted in TGE jejunum in Ussing chambers. However, the addition of L-alanine together with D-glucose caused a significantly greater increment of Na absorption than either L-alanine or D-glucose alone in control and TGE tissue. The effect of Na absorption of the dipeptide L-alanyl-L-alanine (10 mM), which was rapidly hydrolyzed by control and TGE mucosa, was similar to that of L-alanine (20 mM), while glycylsarcosine, a poorly hydrolyzed dipeptide, did not change net Na absorption in the jejunum. Our data support the concept of separate carrier systems for neutral amino acid and hexose in the crypt-type intestinal epithelium characterizing viral enteritis. We speculate that a sodium-cotransporting amino acid, if added to oral glucose-electrolyte solutions, could benefit oral rehydration therapy in acute viral diarrhea; neither of the dipeptides tested here can be expected to enhance absorption to any greater extent than its constituent amino acids.
A rapid and automated colorimetric assay for evaluating the sensitivity of herpes simplex strains to antiviral drugs.	A rapid and sensitive colorimetric assay has been developed to evaluate the sensitivity of herpes simplex viruses (HSV) to antiviral agents. The chessboard titration of viruses and antiviral drugs and the automatic reading and analysis of the data allows objective and accurate results to be rapidly obtained. Virus sensitivity was expressed as an ED50 value which was the concentration of drug (micrograms/ml) reducing viral cpe by 50%. The ED50 values of antiviral drugs [acetylguanosine (ACV), idoxuridine (IDU), deoxycytidine (IDC) and bromovinyl deoxyuridine] for several HSV reference strains were determined and the method was then applied to clinical specimens. The selection of ACV and IDU resistant mutants was performed on a cloned sensitive HSV 1 ocular strain. We observed cross-resistance between ACV and IDU for the mutants isolated. The resistance to thymidine-kinase-dependent antiviral agents varied in inverse ratio to the thymidine kinase activity induced by HSV strains.
Incorporation of (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine into deoxyribonucleic acids of varicella-zoster virus (TK+ and TK- strains)-infected cells.	The incorporation of (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (IVDU) into DNA of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-infected human embryo fibroblasts was studied, using thymidine kinase-positive (TK+) and thymidine kinase-negative (TK-) VZV strains. [125I]IVDU was taken up by cells infected with TK+ VZV-, but not by TK- VZV- or mock-infected cells. [125I]IVDU was incorporated into both VZV DNA and cellular DNA of TK+ VZV-infected cells. When the cells were exposed to 0.3 microM IVDU, a more marked shift was noted in the buoyant density of viral DNA than of host DNA. In contrast, the DNAs isolated from TK- VZV- or mock-infected cells did not exhibit a detectable incorporation of [125I]IVDU. [125I] IVDU-labeled VZV DNA was purified from the viral nucleocapsids of TK+ VZV-infected cells. Substitution of no more than 0.1-1% of the thymidine residues in the VZV DNA by IVDU seemed to suffice to inhibit the replication of VZV.
Relationship between structure and antiviral activity of 5-methoxymethyl-2'-deoxyuridine and 5-methoxymethyl-1-(2'-deoxy-beta-D-lyxofuranosyl)uracil.	5-Methoxymethyl-1-(2'-deoxy-beta-D-lyxofuranosyl)uracil (MMdLU) was not active against the herpes simplex viruses. The relationship between molecular conformation and antiviral activity for the two epimers, 5-methoxymethyl-2'-deoxyuridine (MMdUrd) and MMdLU, is discussed. MMdUrd was phosphorylated by the virus-induced deoxythymidine kinase. In contrast, MMdLU did not serve as a substrate for the kinase. The geometry and distance between the 5'-CH2OH and 3'-OH groups of the furanose ring appear to be key factors in determining the efficiency of phosphorylation by the virus-induced deoxythymidine kinase, and hence antiviral activity.
Chromosomal and enzymatic patterns provide evidence for two types of human colon cancers with abnormal nucleotide metabolism.	Correlated chromosomal and enzymatic studies are reported in a series of 13 human colon cancers. Two distinct chromosomal patterns are found: one with many losses, called monosomic type and another with many gains, called trisomic type. Chromosome 18, which carries the gene for thymidylate synthase (TS) is always missing in the monosomic type, in which TS activity is low. On the contrary, TS activity is high in the trisomic type on the average. The long arm of chromosome 17, which carries the gene for thymidine kinase (TK), is frequently duplicated in both monosomic and trisomic types, in which TK activities are high. It is found that most other deletions affect chromosomes carrying genes for enzymes of the de novo pathways whereas most other gains affect chromosomes carrying genes for enzymes of salvage pathways for synthesis of nucleotides. The importance of this finding is discussed.
Association of non-viral proteins with recombinant vaccinia virus virions.	Evidence is presented which suggests that recombinant vaccinia virus particles (VV:CAT), containing the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyl transferase gene, are capable of encapsidating both the foreign protein which they encode (CAT) as well as cellular enzymes such as thymidine kinase. These results are discussed with respect to using VV to passively introduce biologically-active proteins into cells or organisms.
An experimental study of a splenic inhibitory factor influencing hepatic regeneration.	The effect of splenectomy on hepatic regeneration after 70 per cent partial hepatectomy was studied in rats. Compared with nonsplenectomized rats, preliminarily splenectomized rats showed significantly increased weights of the liver in the early stage (up to four days) after hepatectomy and significantly promoted deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in the regenerating liver in terms of high levels of 3H-thymidine uptake, thymidine kinase activity and mitotic index in the residual liver 24 hours after hepatectomy. The splenic factor inhibiting hepatic regeneration, as previously suggested, was investigated by using primary cultures of rat hepatocytes. At 48 hours when the 3H-thymidine uptake by cultured hepatocytes reached maximum, the group containing a splenic extract showed significantly lower levels (p less than 0.005) of uptake than did the group without the extract and the group containing splenic venous serum also showed lower levels. This splenic factor was labile against heat and lost activity by trypsinization. Furthermore, gel filtration by the use of Sephadex G-75 column suggested the factor to be a protein-like substance with a molecular weight of 50,000 to 60,000. It is likely that a protein-like substance inhibiting hepatic regeneration after hepatectomy is present in the spleen.
A comparison of the conformations adopted by some 5-bromovinyl-2'-deoxyuridines and a correlation with their antiviral properties: an X-ray study.	Crystal structures of (Z)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine, 3',5'-di-O-acetyl-(E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine and 3',5'-di-O-p-chlorobenzoyl-5-(2-dibromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine are compared with each other and with that of the most potent antiviral agent (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (E-BVDU) reported earlier. A comparison of the conformation of 3',5'-di-O-acetyl-pyrimidine nucleoside structures in which intermolecular hydrogen bond network formation is minimized, with those of their parent compounds has shown that the greatest change in rotation about the glycosyl bond and in the sugar ring pucker is exhibited by E-BVDU. Upon acylation this molecule changes from C2'-endo/C3'-exo conformation to C3'-endo/C4'-exo conformation. The relevance of these structures upon the biological activity of the nucleosides and in particular to their ability to be a substrate for thymidine kinase is discussed.
Relation between cell cycle stage and the activity of DNA-synthesizing enzymes in cultured human lymphoblasts: investigations on cell fractions enriched according to cell cycle stages by way of centrifugal elutriation.	Undifferentiated human lymphoblasts (culture LS-2) were separated according to cell size during their exponential growth phase by way of centrifugal elutriation. The cell fractions thus obtained were characterized in terms of different cell cycle stages by flow cytometric measurement of their deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA histogram), the [3H]thymidine labeling index, and by determining the rate of [3H]thymidine incorporation. In these cell fractions the activities of thymidine kinase, thymidylate synthase, DNA polymerase, dihydrofolate reductase, methionine synthase, and hexokinase were determined. The results showed that all the enzymes investigated exhibited activities in all cell fractions. With the exception of DNA polymerase, all of the enzymes exhibited the lowest level of activity in the fraction containing the highest proportion of G0 + G1 phase cells (fraction 2); the activity of thymidine kinase was particularly low. This would suggest that thymidine kinase is not active in G0 + G1 phase cells and that the activity measured in fraction 2 is perhaps attributable to contamination of this fraction by S and G2 + M phase cells.
Thymidine kinase activity of ocular herpes simplex isolates resistant to IUDR therapy.	Thymidine kinase (TK) activity was examined in extracts of TK-deficient cells infected with low passage isolates of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) obtained from patients with herpetic keratitis. TK activity induced by the virus, relative phosphorylation rates of thymidine and iododeoxyuridine (IUDR), and Km values for thymidine and for IUDR were compared for TK induced by the different viral isolates. Four of the five isolates showing IUDR resistance in vitro and in vivo also exhibited alterations in properties of the viral TK. Two induced very low levels of viral TK. Three (including one with reduced TK) had increased Km values for IUDR. A fifth IUDR-resistant isolate induced TK similar to the IUDR-sensitive isolates. The results indicate that modification of viral gene for TK may be responsible for development of clinical resistance to IUDR in many occurrences of herpetic keratitis.
Thymidine kinase of rat liver. Activation by phospholipase C and subcellular distribution in the liver.	1. The thymidine kinase activity of rat liver is greatly enhanced on addition of phospholipase C to the assay mixture. 2. Most of the thymidine kinase activity of the liver is recovered in the mitochondrial and in the impure ;nuclear' fractions. No activity was detected in purified nuclei prepared in high-density sucrose. 3. A substantial thymidine kinase activity could be detected, with the aid of phospholipase C, in all rat tissues examined.
Developmental decline in DNA repair in neural retina cells of chick embryos. Persistent deficiency of repair competence in a cell line derived from late embryos.	Neural retinas of 6-day-old chick embryos synthesize DNA and are able to carry out DNA excision repair. However, in contrast to the situation in human cells, the maximum rate of repair induced by N-acetoxy acetylaminofluorene (AAAF) is no greater than that induced by methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). With advancing differentiation of the retina in the embryo, cell multiplication and DNA synthesis decline and cease, and concurrently the cells lose the ability to carry out DNA excision repair. Thus, in 15-16-day embryos, in which the level of DNA synthesis is very low, DNA repair is barely detectable. If retinas from 14-day embryos are dissociated with trypsin and the cell suspension is plated in growth- promoting medium, DNA synthesis is reinitiated; however, in these cultures there is no detectable repair of MMS-induced damage, and only low levels of repair are observed after treatment with AAAF. A cell line was produced, by repeated passaging of these cultures, in which the cell population reached a steady state of DNA replication. However, the cell population remained deficient in the ability to repair MMS-induced damage. This cell line most likely predominantly comprises cells of retino-glial origin. Possible correlations between deficiency in DNA repair mechanisms in replicating cells and carcinogenesis in neural tissues are discussed.
Inhibition of herpes simplex virus type 2-induced biochemical transformation by interferon.	The effect of interferon on the biochemical transformation of thymidine kinase-deficient cells by UV-inactivated herpes simplex virus type 2 has been studied. Transformation was much less sensitive to the action of interferon than virus multiplication. However, the continuous presence of a high dose of interferon (2,000 U) inhibited transformation almost completely. Although we could not differentiate between the effect of interferon on fixation and expression of the virus thymidine kinase gene, data suggest that the inhibitory effect of interferon on transformation might be partially due to the suppression of virus thymidine kinase expression.
Temperature-sensitive transformation by Rous sarcoma virus and temperature-sensitive protein kinase activity.	The transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus, p60src, has associated with it a protein kinase activity. We examined whether a correlation exists between the cellular concentration of enzymatically active p60src and the degree to which chick cells are transformed by mutants of Rous sarcoma virus which are temperature-sensitive for transformation. Such a correlation does exist, but cells infected with some mutants could be shown to contain, at the nonpermissive temperature, an amount of protein kinase activity equal to 30 to 40% of that in a wild-type transformed cell. We quantified the amount of virus-induced protein kinase activity by precipitation of p60src with an excess of antitumor antiserum. Our initial measurements of activity were serious underestimates, due to the lability of the protein kinase activity associated with p60src of at least four temperature-sensitive mutants. In fact, no activity at all was associated with p60src of tsLA90 when immunoprecipitation was performed by standard means. However, when immunoprecipitation was performed with procedures which minimize inactivation, it became apparent both that cells transformed by tsLA90 contained protein kinase activity and that cells infected with either NY68 or BK5 contained at the nonpermissive temperature, one-third to one-half as much activity as wild-type transformed cells. This level of activity was much more than that arising from p60sarc in uninfected cells. In uninfected cells we found an amount of protein kinase activity which varied from 3 to 5% as much as that in a virally transformed cell. The lability of the protein kinase activity of each of these mutants is a further demonstration that this activity is essential for the transformation of cells by Rous sarcoma virus. So as to explain the high protein kinase levels in cells infected with NY68 and BK5 at the nonpermissive temperature, the idea that transformation may be a response to a small quantitative change in the total activity of p60src and the possibility that there may be more than one viral function which is essential for transformation are discussed.
Identification of the herpes simplex virus DNA sequences present in six herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase-transformed mouse cell lines.	We have used a novel filter hybridization approach to detect and map the herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA sequences which are present in four HSV thymidine kinase (HSVtk+)-transformed cell lines which were derived by exposure of thymidine kinase negative (tk-) mouse cells to UV light-irradiated HSV type 2 (HSV-2). In addition, we have mapped the HSV-1 DNA sequences which are present in two HSV-1tk+-transformed cell lines produced by transfection of tk- mouse cells with sheared HSV-1 DNA. The results of these studies can be summarized as follows. (i) The only HSV DNA sequences which were common to all HSVtk+-transformed cells were those located between map coordinates 0.28 and 0.32. Thus, this region contains all of the viral DNA sequences which are necessary for the expression of HSV-mediated tk transformation. (ii) Many of the cell lines also contained variable amounts of non-tk gene viral DNA sequences located between map coordinates 0.11 to 0.57 and 0.82 to 1.00, suggesting that incorporation of the viral DNA sequences located between these map coordinates is a relatively random event. (iii) The viral DNA sequences located between map coordinates 0 to 0.11 and 0.57 to 0.82 were uniformly absent from all of the HSVtk+ cell lines tested, suggesting that there is a strong negative selective pressure against incorporation of these viral DNA sequences.
Stimulation of thymidine kinase activity by chloramphenicol in Naegleria.	In the present study, the possible association of thymidine kinase (TK) with mitochondria in Naegleria was investigated by treating growing and differentiating cells with chloramphenicol (CAP), an inhibitor of mitochondrial protein synthesis. In some systems, CAP causes an overproduction of mitochondrial proteins coded for in the nucleus. The present results show that in growing Naegleria, CAP stimulates a dramatic increase in TK activity while growth and division is gradually inhibited. CAP does not stabilize the enzyme in vivo or in vitro. The stimulation is cycloheximide (CHI)-sensitive and specific since nucleoside phosphotransferase activity does not increase. In cells stimulated to differentiate, CAP does not prevent differentiation or the expected decrease in TK activity. Using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, a comparison of TK in mitochondrial and postmitochondrial fractions of CAP-treated and untreated cells was made. Results suggest some processing of the enzyme, resulting in a slight change in electrophoretic mobility. No mitochondrial TK was found. The stimulation of a cytoplasmic enzyme by CAP suggests a form of mitochondrial control of nuclear transcription for other than mitochondrial proteins. DNA synthesis in CAP-treated cells was not stimulated, suggesting (since TK and DNA synthesis are usually tightly coupled) an uncoupling of these two events, most likely, at the beginning of the S phase.
Neurovirulence of herpes simplex virus type 1 depends on age in mice and thymidine kinase expression.	The susceptibility of mice of different ages (from four to 28 days) to infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) mutants inoculated onto scarified corneas was studied. The TK+ isolate from wild type virus was pathogenic in mice of all age groups. An HSV-1 mutant (designated TK1/4) with a less active thymidine kinase (TK) gene expressing 25 per cent of the TK activity of the TK+ isolate was pathogenic for mice up to 10 days of age. In older mice, virus pathogenicity was dependent on the inoculum dose: increasing the TK1/4 virus dose tenfold raised the level of TK activity and thus the virulence of the virus. A TK- mutant with no TK activity was pathogenic for four to eight day old mice that have TK activity in the brain, but not in older mice. Thus, resistance to HSV-1 that is age-dependent in mice can be determined by the extent to which the virus strain is liable to express its TK gene and by the amount of TK activity present in the brain.
Alterations in the recognition of nucleoside analogues as substrates by the deoxythymidine kinase of a 5-methoxymethyldeoxyuridine-resistant mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1.	Inhibition constants (Kis) were used as an estimate of the ability of various nucleoside analogues to be recognized as substrates by the deoxythymidine kinases (dTKs) of a 5-methoxymethyldeoxyuridine-resistant (MMdUr) mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and its parent wild-type (wt). It was found that the Kis for the 5-position analogues MMdU, [E]-5-(2-bromovinyl)deoxyuridine, bromodeoxyuridine and iododeoxyuridine were increased approximately three-to fivefold, suggesting that they were poorer substrates for the MMdUr dTK than for the wt dTK. With the 2' analogues arabinosylthymine and 2' fluoro 5-methylarabinosyluracil, however, the Kis were increased to a much greater extent, 80- and 240-fold, respectively. These findings suggest that the resistance of the mutant MMdUr to these analogues may be due to a mutation(s) in the viral dTK that directly affects binding at the 2' recognition site and indirectly at the 5, while still allowing substantial activity with the natural substrate deoxythymidine.
A colorimetric assay for the measurement of the sensitivity of herpes simplex viruses to antiviral agents.	A quantitative colorimetric method for measuring the inhibition of viral cytopathic effects has been adapted to the assay of antiviral compounds. Drug-treated, virus-infected cultures in microtiter plates were stained with the vital dye neutral red and the amount of dye incorporated was determined in a multichannel spectrophotometer. The technique required smaller volumes of reagents, was more easily automated than the standard plaque reduction assay and had good reproducibility. Standard conditions of 30 infectious units of challenge virus and 72-h incubation were judged to be optimal. Median inhibitory concentrations (ID50) for a number of compounds were approximately tenfold higher in the dye-uptake assay compared with the plaque reduction assay, possibly related to the higher multiplicity of infection required to give the desired level of cytopathic effect in the microtiter method.
Potential pitfalls of [3H]thymidine techniques to measure cell proliferation.	Pitfalls and artifacts in the use of [3H]thymidine in the measurement of cell proliferation kinetics in vitro and in vivo are reviewed. These pitfalls are of particular significance for the study of inhibitors of cell proliferation including chalones.
Possible reasons for decrease in the proliferating activity of the rat thymus after a single injection of glucocorticoids]	A single injection of triamcinolone-acetonide evoked multiple changes in adrenectomized rat thymuses, e.g. decrease of DNA polymerase and thymidine kinase activities, incorporation of [3H]thymidine into DNA and fragmentation of chromatin. The decrease of proliferating activity of thymus was preceded by inactivation of cytoplasmic DNA polymerase responsible for DNA replication. Fragmentation of DNA caused by double strand ruptures at the linkage sites affected primarily the non-proliferating thymocytes. Incubation of nuclei isolated from the thymuses of control and hormone-treated animals in Ca2+ and Mg2+-containing media increased the level of low molecular weight compounds in them. It was assumed that the inhibiting action of triamcinolone-acetonide on cytoplasmic DNA polymerase prevents the involvement of proliferating thymocyte subpopulation in a new generation cycle and provides for their terminal differentiation and decay, eventually resulting in fragmentation of DNA.
Thymidylate synthetase during synchronous nuclear division cycle and differentiation of Physarum polycephalum.	Thymidylate synthetase and thymidine kinase activities in wild type strain M3b and in thymidine kinase-deficient mutant TU63 of Physarum polycephalum are studied. Whenever nuclear division occurs in macroplasmodia of wild type, thymidine kinase and thymidylate synthetase activities sharply increase, although the increase of thymidylate synthetase activity is less pronounced than thymidine kinase activity. This is also true for other investigated nuclear divisions during the life cycle of P. polycephalum. It is shown for the first time that thymidylate synthetase is a periodically fluctuating enzyme during the naturally synchronous nuclear division cycle of P. polycephalum with a peak of specific activity in the S phase. In macroplasmodia, as well as after germination of microsclerotia of M3b, thymidine kinase is the dominant enzyme, whereas at the time of the precleavage mitosis in sporulating macroplasmodia thymidylate synthetase is the predominant enzyme. This study describes and compares both dTMP-synthesizing enzymes during proliferation and differentiation of the same organism.
Isolation and characterization of epithelial cell types from the normal rat colon.	Populations enriched in proliferative, mucous goblet, and absorptive cells were isolated by a method of repeated time dissociation of the colonic mucosa from the adult rat. Five sequential cell suspensions were obtained by rotating the everted colon on 0.2% trypsin solution in Eagle's minimum essential medium at 30 degrees for 20 min each time. Approximately 3.7 x 10(7) cells were obtained from each colon, and 87% of the cells were found viable. The results, based on the [3H]-thymidine-labeling index, [3H]thymidine incorporation, thymidine kinase activity, and histochemical and ultrastructural observations, indicate the Cell Suspension I, separated from the luminal surface, contains 82 +/- 9% (S.D.) absorptive cells; Suspension III, separated from the middle level of the crypts, contains 80 +/- 7% mucous cells. Suspension V, isolated from the crypt base, contains the majority of proliferative epithelial cells (85 +/- 10%). This method provides a suitable tool for a variety of studies in colon carcinogenesis.
Effect of 5-fluorouracil on the release of thymidine kinase from hepatoma cells in vitro.	Cells of the Morris hepatoma 7777 cultured in vitro have elevated levels of cytoplasmic thymidine kinase similar to those found in vivo. The cell-doubling time is slightly less than 24 hr. The addition of 5-fluorouracil to the culture medium (10 micrograms/ml) inhibits cell division, stimulates thymidine kinase production, and results in cell death which increases with time. Treated cells release significantly (p less than or equal to 0.01) more thymidine kinase into the culture medium than do untreated cells, and this effect can also be seen following a 60-min pulsed incubation of the cells with 5-fluorouracil. The total activity of thymidine kinase released is proportional to cell death and to the number of cells originally on the plate. These results suggest the possibility of monitoring tumor response to therapy in vivo by measuring serum levels of thymidine kinase.
Thymidine kinase isoenzymes in human malignant lymphoma.	The activities of thymidine kinase (TK) isoenzyme 1 and 2 were examined in extracts of human benign or malignant lymphoid tissue and correlated with degrees of morphological differentiation. TK2 activity occurred in peripheral blood lymphocytes of normal individuals, patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or solid lymphoid tissue, exhibiting either nonneoplastic histological findings or those of diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma. TK1 activity occurred in solid, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma tissue, exhibiting lesser degrees of cellular differentiation, or in peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with clinical aggressive chronic lymphocytic leukemia or lymphosarcoma leukemia. In non-Hodgkin's lymphoma tissue, the range of TK1 activities correlated broadly with the Rappaport classification, with higher values occurring in tissue exhibiting changes of diffuse poorly differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma or diffuse histiocytic lymphoma.
Retroviral vector-mediated gene transfer of antisense cyclin G1 (CYCG1) inhibits proliferation of human osteogenic sarcoma cells.	Genetic changes found in human osteogenic sarcoma cells, including loss of the p53 and Rb tumor suppressor elements and overexpression of the cyclin G1 (CYCG1) proto-oncogene, suggest the potential of gene transfer as a treatment for metastatic disease. In this study, we examined the effects of antisense cyclin G1, in comparison with antisense cyclin D1 (CYCD1) and enforced expression of the universal cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1/CIP1 on the proliferation of human MG-63 osteosarcoma cells. Retroviral vectors bearing antisense CYCG1 as well as antisense CYCD1 and WAF1/CIP1 (in sense orientation) driven by the Moloney murine leukemia virus long terminal repeat promoter inhibited the growth and/or survival of transduced MG-63 cells in 2-7 day cultures. This represents the first demonstration that cyclin G1 is essential for the survival and/or growth of human osteosarcoma cells. Cytostatic and cytopathic effects were accompanied by a significant increase in the incidence of apoptosis, as determined by immunocytochemical analysis of DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, transduction of MG-63 cells with a retroviral vector bearing the suicide gene, herpes simplex thymidine kinase (HStk), induced cell death on treatment with ganciclovir, exhibiting pronounced bystander effects. Taken together, the data affirm the feasibility of modulating inducible cell cycle control enzymes as a potential gene therapy approach in the clinical management of osteogenic sarcoma.
Changes of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA and thymidine kinase activity in rat thyroid lobes, following their exposure to neuropeptide Y.	The effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA of rat thyroid lobes in a 4 h incubation, and on the activity of thymidine kinase (TK) in the homogenates of thyroid lobes in vitro, as well as the influence of thyrotropin (TSH), applied alone or together with NPY, were investigated. The effects of NPY were dependent on the concentration used. Neuropeptide Y, in the lowest and the highest concentrations, decreased both the incorporation of 3H-thymidine to DNA and TK activity, and when used in intermediate concentrations NPY did not significantly affect the processes examined. Thyrotropin decreased TK activity and revealed a tendency towards lowering 3H-thymidine uptake, the latter effect being not statistically significant. NPY (10(-10) M) used together with TSH, produced an increase of 3H-thymidine incorporation into DNA, when compared with controls and the TSH-exposed group. Following the joint exposure to NPY and TSH, TK activity declined.
Genetically controlled pharmacomodulation: application to the treatment of HIV infection]	AZT is an inhibitor of HIV reverse transcriptase which active form is AZT-triphosphate. Its clinical efficacy is limited by its toxicity and the emergence of mutant resistant viruses. This might be due to an unfficient cellular metabolism of AZT which leads to the intracellular accumulation of AZT monophosphate. We tested a possible enhancement of this metabolism with the HSV1 thymidine kinase, an enzyme that also possesses a good thymidilate kinase activity. We show that, compared to parental cells, the proportion of AZT triphosphate is increased 3 fold in HSV1-TK expressing cells, and that inhibition of HIV replication in these cells requires 3 to 10 fold less AZT. This observation forms the basis for a new gene therapy strategy named genetically controlled pharmacomodulation.
Zidovudine induces the expression of cellular resistance affecting its antiviral activity.	We have previously shown that multidrug-resistant cells expressing the multidrug transporter P-glycoprotein are less sensitive to the antiviral activity of AZT. Subsequently, we addressed the question whether AZT itself is able to induce cellular resistance to the drug. Indeed, CEM cells propagated in the presence of increasing concentrations of AZT become resistant to the antigrowth and antiviral activity of AZT but do not express detectable level of P-glycoprotein. Sensitivity of these cells to other compounds, such as vinblastine, vincristine, ddI, and ddC remained unchanged, indicating that, in contrast to P-glycoprotein-positive cells, AZT-induced resistance is specific for AZT. Interestingly, in AZT-induced resistant cells the intracellular accumulation of AZT and exogenous deoxythymidine, as well as thymidine kinase activity, are significantly reduced when compared with the parental cell line. Our findings show that AZT itself may directly induce the expression of cellular mechanisms leading to the acquisition of specific cellular resistance that can affect its antiviral activity.
Effects of IMP dehydrogenase inhibitors on the phosphorylation of ganciclovir in MOLT-4 cells before and after herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene transduction.	We have undertaken to characterize the role of cytoplasmic 5'-nucleotidase (EC 3.1.3.5) in the phosphorylation of the anti-herpes simplex virus and anti-human cytomegalovirus agent ganciclovir (GCV) in MOLT-4 cells, a human T cell line adapted to grow in suspension culture. The rate of formation of GCV triphosphate was found to be approximately doubled by preincubation of nontransfected MOLT-4 cells with agents that cause the accumulation of IMP, such as ribavirin (20 microM) and mycophenolic acid (1 microM), and the reaction rate was found to be unaffected by high levels of thymidine (100 microM). With herpes simplex virus-1 thymidine kinase (HStk) gene-transduced MOLT-4 cells, the rate of GCV phosphorylation was approximately 40-fold faster than that in uninfected cells and, in marked contrast to uninfected cells, the reaction was significantly inhibited both by IMP dehydrogenase inhibitors and by thymidine. These latter effects appear to be the result of 1) the accumulation of high levels of dTTP in IMP dehydrogenase inhibitor-treated cells, with consequent feedback inhibition of HStk, and 2) direct competitive substrate inhibition by thymidine of the HStk-catalyzed phosphorylation of GCV. Thus, agents that enhance 5'-nucleotidase-catalyzed phosphorylation of GCV in uninfected cells do not play a similar role in HStk-transfected cells, a consequence of the quantitative predominance of the viral thymidine kinase-catalyzed reaction over that attributable to endogenous cytoplasmic 5'-nucleotidase.
Study of S phase synchronization of the human gastric cancer line HGT-1]	The growth of the human gastric cancer cell line HGT-1 is regulated by a gastrin-like peptide through an autocrine process. In order to analyse the mechanism of action of this peptide, a study at different steps of the cell cycle was considered; so, a blocking of this cell line by thymidine or hydroxy-urea was studied by cytofluorimetry. In normal growth conditions in 10% FCS medium, 57% of the cells were in G0/G1 phase and 31% in S phase. A treatment with 2 mM hydroxy-urea followed by 4 hours in 10% FCS medium led to 85% of the cells in S phase. By successive treatments with thymidine and hydroxy-urea followed by 1 hour in 10% FCS medium, 2 peaks of S phase corresponding to 86% of the cells were observed; after 24 hours, cells were distributed as found for the unconfluent cell line, whatever the treatment. On the other hand, the thymidine kinase activity of unconfluent cells which was relatively elevated as compared to other cell lines (278 mU/mg protein), was increased by synchronisation with hydroxyurea followed by 1 hour in 10% SVF medium (338 mU/mg protein); after 8 hours in 10% FCS medium, this activity decreased at the value observed for cells treated with thymidine followed by 1 hour in 10% FCS medium (214 mU/mg protein). In conclusion, a synchronisation either by thymidine or by hydroxy-urea, led to a blocking of the HGT-1 cell line at different steps of the cell cycle, leading to a better knowledge of its autocrine growth regulation.
Changes with age of mammary glands in male and female soft-furred rat, Millardia meltada, in relation to prolactin and testosterone.	The soft-furred rat, millardia (Millardia meltada), is characterized by the development of androgen-dependent mammary tumours only in males. The age-related changes of the activities of thymidylate synthetase (TS) and thymidine kinase (TK), which contribute to DNA synthesis through de novo and salvage pathways, respectively, and structure in the mammary glands were studied in both males and females of this species between 5-28 months of age. While TK activity had no relation to age, TS activity decreased with age in males. In the females, TK activity increased with age, but not TS activity. These enzyme activities were generally higher in females than in males. The mammary glands of both sexes consisted of fine ducts with small end-buds and the glands of males contained mostly black pigments at any age examined. In either males or females, serum levels of prolactin and testosterone related little with age, DNA synthesizing enzyme activities or structure of the mammary glands. Furthermore, elevation by pituitary grafting of circulating prolactin affected neither DNA synthesizing enzyme activities nor structure of mammary glands in both sexes. The histological structures of adrenal, testis, ovary, ventral prostate and uterus of millardia were essentially similar to those of mice or rats.
Divergent anti-human immunodeficiency virus activity and anabolic phosphorylation of 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside analogs in resting and activated human cells.	The mechanism of divergent anti-human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) activity of various 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside analogs (ddNs) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBM) was studied. We demonstrate that the in vitro anti-HIV-1 activity of various ddNs varies profoundly and that the divergent antiviral activity is related to the extent of anabolic phosphorylation of each ddN and its counterpart 2'-deoxynucleoside (dN). We also show that certain ddNs cause a reduction of their counterpart dNTP formation in PBM in the following order: 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) >> 2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (d4T), 3'-thia-2',3'-dideoxycytidine (3TC), 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (ddI), 2',3'-dideoxyguanosine (ddG) > 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT) > 2'-beta-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyadenosine (F-ara-ddA). Based on the phosphorylation profiles, anti-HIV-1 ddNs can be classified into two groups: (i) cell-activation-dependent ddNs such as AZT and d4T that are preferentially phosphorylated, yield higher ratios of ddNTP/dNTP, and exert more potent anti-HIV-1 activity in activated cells than in resting cells; and (ii) cell-activation-independent ddNs including ddI (and 2',3'-dideoxyadenosine), F-ara-ddA, ddG, ddC, and 3TC that produce higher ratios of ddNTP/dNTP and exert more potent anti-HIV-1 activity in resting cells. These data should provide a basis for the elucidation of the mechanism of the divergent antiretroviral activity of ddNs.
Senescence-like growth arrest induced by hydrogen peroxide in human diploid fibroblast F65 cells.	Human diploid fibroblast cells lose replicative potential after a certain number of population doublings. We use this experimental system to investigate the role of oxidative damage in cellular aging. Treating cells with H2O2 at < 300 microM did not affect the viability of the majority of cells when judged by morphology, trypan blue exclusion, and protein synthesis. However, the treatment caused a dose-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis. After a 2-hr treatment with 200 microM H2O2, the cells failed to respond to a stimulus of serum, platelet-derived growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, or epidermal growth factor by synthesizing DNA, and the loss of response could not be recovered by 4 days. Subcultivation showed that, as in senescent cells, division of the treated cells was inhibited. The life-time cumulative growth curve showed that the loss of replication due to H2O2 treatment was cumulative and irreversible. The H2O2 treatment decreased the number of the population doublings in the rest of the life span by 35.3 +/- 10.3%. Enzymatic assays indicated that, like the cells in their senescent state, the treated cells were less able to activate ornithine decarboxylase and thymidine kinase. Furthermore, subcultivation after the H2O2 treatment showed that the cells developed the morphology of senescent cells. In conclusion, sublethal treatment of H2O2 "stunned" F65 cells and caused the cells to enter a state resembling senescence.
Antiviral chemotherapy: mechanisms of action, evaluation of activity, resistance and future developments]	Antiviral chemotherapy is based on the selective inhibition of intracellular virus multiplication. Inhibitors of viral DNA polymerases perfectly exemplifies this mode of action. In spite of their selectivity, some of these drugs are cytotoxic and all remain unefficient against latent viruses. Evaluation of antiviral activity requires in vitro sensitivity tests, in vivo studies on animals and virological analyses during clinical trials. This evaluation needs well standardized assays. The emergence of in vitro resistance reflects the occurrence of mutations regarding target enzymes. Clinical significance of antiviral drug resistance needs to be assessed in many circumstances, even if its association with immunodeficiency often leads to a clear therapeutic failure. Further developments will include the synthesis of novel inhibitors, study of drug associations and improvement of virological diagnosis techniques relevant to therapy.
Impairment of DNA synthesis in Gunn rat cerebellum.	Brain DNA synthesis was developmentally investigated in Gunn rat with marked cerebellar hypoplasia due to hereditary hyperbilirubinemia. In this mutant rat, the Purkinje cell was nearly selectively affected in the cerebellar cortex by bilirubin. The impaired DNA synthesis was observed in homozygous (jj) Gunn rat cerebellum, in which the DNA content and [3H]thymidine incorporation rate into DNA decreased after 10 days of age compared to those in the heterozygous (Jj)littermate. In contrast, these impairments were not found in the non-cerebellar parts of the brain and liver of jj Gunn rat. The activity of cerebellar thymidine kinase in jj Gunn rat decreased from a very early stae, being 80% of Jj rat at 6 days, and 50% at 10 days of age. The enzyme activity was not affected in the non-cerebellar parts of the brain. Although bilirubin competitively inhibited cerebellar thymidine kinase activity in vitro (15% at 10(-5) M), such bilirubin level was found to be about 1000-fold that in vivo. Moreover, photo-degradation of bilirubin in jj cerebellum exhibited no improvement in thymidine kinase activity, and the presence of an enzyme inactivator was not suggested in jj cerebellum. These results seem to indicate that the induction of thymidine kinase might be affected in jj Gunn rat cerebellum. The possibility that the impaired DNA synthesis in the external granular cells in jj cerebellum may be due to Purkinje cell damage is discussed.
Inhibitory effect of a nucleoside analog, acyclovir, on leukemia cells.	Acyclovir (ACV), a nucleoside analog, has been demonstrated previously to suppress selectively the proliferation of NIH3T3 fibroblastic cells transformed by either v-abl or bcr-abl gene transfection. From a viewpoint of clinical application of ACV, we investigated whether ACV inhibited the growth of leukemia cells expressing either p210 BCR-ABL or p185BCR-ABL. Acyclovir exerted an inhibitory effect on OM9;22 cells, p185BCR-ABL expressing cells, in a dose-dependent manner. Despite no down-modulation of a BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase activity or its expression was observed after treatment with ACV, cell cycle analysis demonstrated synchronization of OM9;22 cells at the G0/G1 phase. This suggests that, although ACV does not directly act on BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase, ACV may exert its inhibitory effect on some leukemia cell lines via alterations of the cell cycle. Although selective inhibition of Philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemia cell growth was not apparent, our data provides a therapeutic possibility for ACV in the treatment for leukemia.
Regulation of the salvage pathway of deoxynucleotides synthesis in apoptosis induced by growth factor deprivation.	Here we describe changes in dNTP metabolism that precede DNA fragmentation in a model of apoptosis driven by deprivation of the cytokine interleukin 3 (IL-3). In haemopoietic BAF3 cells, IL-3 withdrawal leads to a rapid decrease in the size of dATP, dTTP and dGTP pools without affecting dCTP levels. This imbalance in dNTP pools precedes DNA fragmentation and is accompanied by down-regulation of enzymes controlling the de novo and salvage pathways of dNTP synthesis, ribonucleotide reductase and thymidine kinase (TK) respectively. Readdition of IL-3 results in a rapid, protein synthesis-independent restoration of normal dNTP pools, enhanced TK activity and increased precursor incorporation through the salvage pathway. Up-regulation of TK activity after IL-3 readdition is prevented by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor staurosporin, but not by tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Furthermore activation of PKC by phorbol esters mimics the stimulatory effect of IL-3 on TK activity, suggesting that PKC might be involved in regulating this effect. These results indicate that regulation by IL-3 of the salvage pathway of dNTP synthesis plays a role in the maintenance of cellular dNTP pool balance and suggests that alterations in dNTP metabolism after IL-3 deprivation could be a relevant event in the commitment of haemopoietic cells to apoptosis.
Curative potential of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene transfer in rats with 9L gliosarcoma.	The transfer of the gene coding for the thymidine kinase of the herpes simplex virus (HSV-tk), followed by ganciclovir (GCV) administration, has been described for the treatment of several types of cancer, especially brain tumors. We further studied the efficacy of this approach by using the 9L rat gliosarcoma model, and cells producing 5 x 10(3), 9 x 10(4), 3 x 10(5) HSV-tk retroviral particles per milliliter. Their stereotactic injection in 9L brain tumors and GCV treatment did not result in any increase of survival. To study a model of optimal in vivo transduction, we examined the survival of rats with tumors growing from 9L cells that had been previously transduced in vitro with the HSV-tk vectors (9LTk cells). We observed that GCV administration cured 26% (n = 42) of the animals with 9LTk brain tumors, with most of the relapsing tumors remaining HSV-tk positive. The increase of either the dose or the duration of GCV treatment did not improve the survival rate. But the cerebral localization of the tumor played an important role, because this survival rate reached 67% (n = 12) when similar tumors were growing subcutaneously. No or only marginal antitumoral responses were induced by the presence of a selectable marker gene in the HSV-tk vectors. These results demonstrate that in vitro HSV-tk gene transfer in 9L tumor cells, but not in vivo gene transfer, followed by GCV treatment, is able to cure rats at a rate that is higher for subcutaneous than for intracerebral tumors.
An Escherichia coli system expressing human deoxyribonucleoside salvage enzymes for evaluation of potential antiproliferative nucleoside analogs.	Deoxyribonucleoside salvage in animal cells is mainly dependent on two cytosolic enzymes, thymidine kinase (TK1) and deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), while Escherichia coli expresses only one type of deoxynucleoside kinase, i.e., TK. A bacterial whole-cell system based on genetically modified E. coli was developed in which the relevant bacterial deoxypyrimidine metabolic enzymes were mutated, and the cDNA for human dCK or TK1 under the control of the lac promoter was introduced. The TK level in extract from induced bacteria with cDNA for human TK1 was found to be 20,000-fold higher than that in the parental strain, and for the strain with human dCK, the enzyme activity was 160-fold higher. The in vivo incorporation of deoxythymidine (Thd) and deoxycytidine (dCyd) into bacterial DNA by the two recombinant strains was 20 and 40 times higher, respectively, than that of the parental cells. A number of nucleoside analogs, including cytosine arabinoside, 5-fluoro-dCyd, difluoro-dCyd, and several 5-halogenated deoxyuridine analogs, were tested with the bacterial system, as well as with human T-lymphoblast CEM cells. The results showed a close correlation between the inhibitory effects of several important cytostatic and antiviral analogs on the recombinant bacteria and the cellular system. Thus, E. coli expressing human salvage kinases is a rapid and convenient model system which may complement other screening methods in drug discovery projects.
Modifications of the antioxidant enzymes in relation to chromosome imbalances in human melanoma cell lines.	Five human melanoma cell lines were investigated for their antioxidant activities. These metabolic data were correlated with cytogenetic analysis giving the relative numbers of chromosomes or chromosomal segments carrying the gene encoding for each enzyme. Particular attention was focused on the expression of superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2), whose gene, located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q), has been proposed as a tumour suppressor gene. The activity of glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione reductase (GSR) and catalase appeared to be unrelated to the relative number of 3q, 8p and 11p arms which, respectively, carry their encoding genes. GPX activity paralleled that of total SOD activity, and GSR variations followed those of GPX, suggesting possible metabolic regulation. Both the activity and the amount of SOD1 immunoreactive protein correlated with the number of chromosomes 21, suggesting a gene dosage effect. The three cell lines with deletions of the 6q arm had lower SOD2 activity and less immunoreactive protein than the two cell lines without 6q deletion. In addition, they demonstrated high thymidine kinase and thymidylate synthetase activities, which are directly linked to the cell proliferation rate. These results strengthen the hypothesis that SOD2 has a function as a tumour suppressor gene, but also suggest that the expression of other antioxidant enzymes might be altered in human melanomas.
Congenital dyserythropoiesis with intererythroblastic chromatin bridges and ultrastructurally-normal erythroblast heterochromatin: a new disorder.	Two non-anaemic subjects, a father and daughter, with a new form of congenital dyserythropoiesis are reported. The features of their disorder are: (1) an abnormal blood film with basophilic stippling of red cells and oval macrocytes, (2) various dysplastic changes in the erythroblasts, including internuclear chromatin bridges, (3) ultrastructurally-normal erythroblast heterochromatin, (4) normal serum thymidine kinase activity, and (5) a probable autosomal dominant inheritance. The last three features distinguish this disorder from CDA type I.
A continuous spectrophotometric assay for thymidine and deoxycytidine kinases.	We have developed a continuous spectrophotometric assay for thymidine and deoxycytidine kinase activities by coupling nucleoside 5'-monophosphate formation to a methylation reaction which generates a product absorbing at 340 nm. With thymidine kinase, we used the alternate substrate deoxyuridine and coupled the reaction to thymidylate synthase. For deoxycytidine kinase, we coupled the reaction to a thymidylate synthase mutant which converts the product 2'-deoxycytidine-5'-monophosphate (dCMP) to m5dCMP. In both cases, the methylation reactions are accompanied by conversion of 5,10-methylene-5,6,7,8-tedrahydrofolate to 7,8-dihydrofolate and can be continuously monitored by the increase of absorbance at 340 nm. The assay should be particularly useful for kinetic studies, and for the purification of these enzymes from various sources.
