Inhibition of purified recombinant reverse transcriptase from wild-type and zidovudine-resistant clinical isolates of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 by zidovudine, stavudine, and lamivudine triphosphates.	Cross-resistance between zidovudine, stavudine, and lamivudine was studied, using purified recombinant reverse transcriptase from a zidovudine-susceptible and -resistant pair of clinical isolates of human immunodeficiency virus type 1. The zidovudine-resistant isolate exhibited low-level cross-resistance to both stavudine and lamivudine in drug susceptibility assays. Enzyme from the resistant isolate demonstrated reduced inhibition by zidovudine triphosphate and stavudine triphosphate and, to a lesser extent, lamivudine triphosphate. These findings provide additional evidence at the viral and enzyme level for cross-resistance between zidovudine and stavudine, and they suggest a possible effect of zidovudine resistance on susceptibility to lamivudine.
Use of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase recovered from human plasma for phenotypic drug susceptibility testing.	To demonstrate the use of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) recovered directly from plasma for phenotypic drug susceptibility testing.
Common features in the interaction of tetrahydroimidazo[4,5,1-jk][1,4]benzodiazepin-2(1H)-one and -thione and 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl]-6-(phenylthio)thymine derivatives with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase.	Recently, several classes of compounds have been shown to be potent, selective, and specific inhibitors of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication in vitro. These include the tetrahydroimidazo[4,5,1-jk][1,4]-benzodiazepin-2(1H)-one and -thione (TIBO) and the 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl]-6-(phenylthio)thymine (HEPT) derivatives. Both the TIBO and HEPT derivatives specifically inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase (RT). From a comparative study of the characteristics of RT inhibition by TIBO and HEPT, and from the competition between TIBO and HEPT for RT inhibition, we infer that both classes of compounds, although structurally unrelated, are targeted at the same site of the enzyme. Detailed functional and kinetic analyses indicate that this target site is functionally and possibly also spatially related to the substrate binding site.
Azidothymidine promotes free radical generation by activated macrophages and hydrogen peroxide-iron-mediated oxidation in a cell-free system.	Azidothymidine (AZT) and AZT monophosphate (AZT-MP) in concentrations as low as 10 and 50 microM, respectively, promote oxidation of chemically deacetylated 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein (DCDHF) to 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) by rat peritoneal macrophages activated with latex. Cells were incubated with AZT and AZT-MP for 18 h, washed out from residual AZT or AZT-MP and activated with latex for 30 or 60 min in the presence of DCDHF. Latex-activated cells oxidize DCDHF extracellularly due to release of hydrogen peroxide and low-molecular iron complexes, which is verified using catalase, desferal and the peroxidase inhibitor sodium azide. AZT and AZT-MP increase DCDHF oxidation due to additional release of hydrogen peroxide as demonstrated by catalase inhibition of DCDHF oxidation and direct H(2)O(2) measurement. Thymidine and thymidine phosphates did not show any effect on macrophage activation. In separate experiments we evaluated the in vitro prooxidant activity of AZT, AZT-MP, AZT triphosphate (AZT-TP), AZT glucuronide (GAZT) and 3'-amino-3'-deoxythymidine (AMT) in a cell-free system using the hydrogen peroxide-iron-mediated oxidation of DCDHF. Under these conditions, AZT and AZT phosphates exhibit a prooxidant effect in concentrations as low as 100 microM. Furthermore, GAZT is a less effective prooxidant and AMT acts like an antioxidant. Thymidine did not show any effect.
Purification and characterization of TDP-D-glucose 4,6-dehydratase from anthracycline-producing streptomycetes.	TDP-D-glucose 4,6-dehydratase, which converts TDP-D-glucose to TDP-D-4-keto-6-deoxyglucose, was purified to near-homogeneity from the daunorubicin and baumycin-producing organism Streptomyces sp. C5 (968-fold purification with a 41% recovery), and from the daunorubicin producer Streptomyces peucetius ATCC 29050 (1000-fold purification with a 37% recovery). The TDP-D-glucose 4,6-dehydratases from Streptomyces sp. C5 and S. peucetius were determined by SDS-PAGE and HPLC gel filtration to be homodimers with subunit relative molecular masses of 39,000 and 36,000, respectively. For the enzymes from both organisms, negligible activity was observed in the absence of added NAD+, or when ADP-glucose, ADP-mannose, GDP-mannose, UDP-glucose or UDP-galactose was substituted for TDP-D-glucose as substrate. For the enzyme from Streptomyces sp. C5, the K'm values for NAD+ and TDP-D-glucose were 19.2 microM and 31.3 microM, respectively. The V'max for TDP-D-glucose was 309 nmol min-1 (mg protein)-1. For the S. peucetius enzyme, the K'm values for NAD+ and TDP-D-glucose were 20.1 microM and 34.7 microM, respectively. V'max values were 180 nmol min-1 (mg protein)-1 for NAD+ and 201 nmol min-1 (mg protein)-1 for TDP-D-glucose. TDP was a good inhibitor of TDP-D-glucose 4,6-dehydratase from both organisms. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the TDP-D-glucose 4,6-dehydratase from S. peucetius and from the erythromycin producer, Saccharopolyspora erythraea, were similar, whereas the enzyme from Streptomyces sp. C5 contained a different N-terminal amino acid sequence from either of the other two enzymes.
Molecular mechanism by which the K70E mutation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase confers resistance to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.	The K70E mutation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT) has become more prevalent in clinical samples, particularly in isolates derived from patients for whom triple-nucleoside regimens that include tenofovir (TNV), abacavir, and lamivudine (3TC) failed. To elucidate the molecular mechanism by which this mutation confers resistance to these nucleoside RT inhibitors (NRTI), we conducted detailed biochemical analyses comparing wild-type (WT), K70E, and K65R HIV-1 RT. Pre-steady-state kinetic experiments demonstrate that the K70E mutation in HIV-1 RT allows the enzyme to discriminate between the natural deoxynucleoside triphosphate substrate and the NRTI triphosphate (NRTI-TP). Compared to the WT enzyme, K70E RT showed 2.1-, 2.3-, and 3.5-fold-higher levels of resistance toward TNV-diphosphate, carbovir-TP, and 3TC-TP, respectively. By comparison, K65R RT demonstrated 12.4-, 12.0-, and 13.1-fold-higher levels of resistance, respectively, toward the same analogs. NRTI-TP discrimination by the K70E (and K65R) mutation was primarily due to decreased rates of NRTI-TP incorporation and not to changes in analog binding affinity. The K65R and K70E mutations also profoundly impaired the ability of RT to excise 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine monophosphate (AZT-MP) and other NRTI-MP from the 3' end of a chain-terminated primer. When introduced into an enzyme with the thymidine analog mutations (TAMs) M41L, L210W, and T215Y, the K70E mutation inhibited ATP-mediated excision of AZT-MP. Taken together, these findings indicate that the K70E mutation, like the K65R mutation, reduces susceptibility to NRTI by selectively decreasing NRTI-TP incorporation and is antagonistic to TAM-mediated nucleotide excision.
Mutational analysis of two conserved sequence motifs in HIV-1 reverse transcriptase.	Two conserved sequence motifs, occurring in HIV-1 reverse transcriptase at residues 110-116 and 183-190, have been studied using site-directed mutagenesis of the cloned gene. In particular, aspartates at positions 185 and 186 have each been mutated to either asparagine or glutamate. The resulting mutant proteins were catalytically inactive but still able to bind the template-primer complex, poly rA-oligo dT. Other mutations in these regions resulted in reduced reverse trascriptase activity but the mutation of tyrosine-183 to serine caused a significant increase in the Km for dTTP and the Ki for inhibition by 3'-azidothymidine-triphosphate, 2',3'-dideoxythymidine-triphosphate and phosphonoformic acid.
Mutants from V79 fibroblasts exhibiting hypersensitivity to aphidicolin and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine.	One variant, aphhs-3 was previously isolated based on a hypersensitivity to nontoxic concentrations of aphidicolin, a specific inhibitor of DNA polymerases-alpha and delta. This variant was found to be more sensitive to temperatures above 35 degrees C and to 10 microM of 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (zidovudine, azidothymidine, or AZT) than the parental 743x cells. DNA polymerase activities in the cell extract or in the partially purified fraction by DEAE-cellulose (DE52) anion exchange column from aphhs-3 were active at 40 degrees C. No significant differences in deoxynucleoside triphosphate pools were observed at 34 degrees C for both the parental 743x and aphhs-3 cells. Revertants were isolated at 39 degrees C: six revertants (aphhs-3-tr1 through aphhs-3-tr6) were obtained without aphidicolin; one revertant aphhs-3-tar (the tar clone) was selected in aphidicolin (0.12 microM). The hypersensitivity to aphidicolin (Aphhs) and AZT (AZThs) was cosegregated in the revertant aphhs-3-tr5 (the tr5 clone), while the tar clone was not AZThs. There was a similar increase in the specific activity of 3H-labeled DNA in all cell lines after additions of [3H]AZT or [3H]thymidine. Additions of purine or pyrimidine arabinosides (araT, araC, and araA) to all cell lines resulted in a similar cytotoxicity, suggesting the anabolism of dTTP was not defective in the tr5 clone. The spontaneous mutation rate at the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoryltransferase locus using replating techniques and 6-thioguanine resistance selection was less than or equal to 5 x 10(-7), 2.2 x 10(-6), or 1.3 x 10(-6) per generation for the tr5, 743x, or tar cell lines, respectively. Most importantly, DNA polymerase activities in the cell extract of the revertant tr5 clone were inhibited by 0.5 microM AZTTP. In contrast, no inhibition was observed in those of the parental 743x and revertant tar cells. The cosegregation of both Aphhs and AZThs in the tr5 revertant suggests that these two phenotypes may be a result of the same mutational event.
The role of phosphoric acid residues in the formation of antigenic determinants of the structural components of DNA]	The inhibitory activity of thymidine, thymidine triphosphate and thymidyl oligonucleotides was studied in thymidine-antithymidine antibodies reaction. Thymidine was shown to have the greatest inhibitory effect, with thymidine triphosphate and thymidyl oligonucleotide inhibitory activity less expressed and reducing with the increase in oligonucleotide length. The effect of thymidine, thymidine triphosphate and thymidyl oligonucleotides on the interaction of antisera and SLE patients' sera with denatured DNA was studied. It was shown that thymidine triphosphate and particularly thymidyl oligonucleotides are characterized by greater inhibitory capacity, as compared to thymidine. It was found that only thymine dimers bound by phosphate groups can inhibit the interaction of UV-irradiated DNA with antiserum specific for UV-modified DNA. The data obtained suggest that the charge determined by phosphoric acid residues plays an essential role in the interaction of antibodies induced to charged structural DNA components.
Inhibition of HIV-associated reverse transcriptase by sugar-modified derivatives of thymidine 5'-triphosphate in comparison to cellular DNA polymerases alpha and beta.	The sugar-modified dTTP analogues 2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxy-thymidine 5'-triphosphate (ddeTTP), 2',3'-dideoxythymidine 5'-triphosphate (ddTTP), 3'-fluorothymidine 5'-triphosphate (FdTTP), and 3'-azidothymidine 5'-triphosphate (N3dTTP) are demonstrated to be very effective and selective inhibitors of the HIV-associated reverse transcriptase (HIV-RT). This conclusion is based on a comparison of the ID50 values of the compounds for the HIV-RT (ranging from 0.03 microM for ddeTTP to 0.1 microM for ddTTP) and the cellular DNA polymerase alpha (greater than 200 microM). DNA polymerase beta is partially affected by N3dTTP (ID50 = 31 microM) and by the other analogues (ID50 = 1-2.2 microM). FdTTP has proved as effective as N3dTTP (ID50 = 0.05 microM) in suppressing the HIV-RT activity. Kinetic analysis revealed for both dTTP analogues a competitive type of inhibition and the same K1 values (about 0.05 microM).
DNA synthesis in a mitochondrial lysate of Xenopus laevis oocytes. H strand replication in vitro.	Conditions for efficient replication in vitro of mitochondrial DNA L strand into H strand products have been established. Gel electrophoresis and hybridization analyses of the products show that neosynthesized H strands are progressively elongated from the D-loop region, and some of them are synthesized as full-length molecules. Evidence for initiation of these H strands de novo is presented. In contrast, there is no detectable L strand synthesis in vitro in this system. This may prove useful for analyzing the distinct molecular mechanisms operating at OH and OL. Use of specific inhibitors indicates that DNA synthesis in the mitochondrial lysate in vitro requires DNA polymerase gamma. These observations support the conclusion that replication in vitro in this system closely resembles the first steps of mitochondrial DNA replication in vivo.
Effector studies of 3'-azidothymidine nucleotides with human ribonucleotide reductase.	The 5'-mono-, di- and triphosphate derivatives (N3dTMP, N3dTDP and N3dTTP respectively) of 3'-azidothymidine (N3dThd), a new drug for the treatment of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), were synthesized. The abilities of these analog nucleotides to mimic the effector properties of the corresponding thymidine nucleotides with human ribonucleotide reductase were studied. Surprisingly, the mode of inhibition of CDP reduction by dTTP and dTDP was found to be competitive versus CDP. The Ki values were 22 and 78 microM respectively. Inhibition by N3dTTP and N3dTDP was considerably weaker, with Ki values of 1200 and 550 microM. Neither dTMP nor N3dTMP produced significant inhibition at concentrations up to 500 microM. dTTP was an essential activator for GDP reduction. In the presence of the accessory activator, ATP, the activation constant for dTTP was 7.8 microM. N3dTTP was neither an activator of GDP reduction nor an inhibitor of the activation by dTTP. In view of the intracellular concentrations of these analog nucleotides reached after incubations with N3dThd [Furman et al., Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 83, 8333 (1986)] and the weakness of their interactions with ribonucleotide reductase, it is unlikely that the antiviral or toxic effects of N3dThd can be attributed to direct effects on this enzyme. The possible indirect effects caused by alterations in the pools of the natural effectors are discussed.
Alterations in the recognition of nucleoside analogues as substrates by the deoxythymidine kinase of a 5-methoxymethyldeoxyuridine-resistant mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1.	Inhibition constants (Kis) were used as an estimate of the ability of various nucleoside analogues to be recognized as substrates by the deoxythymidine kinases (dTKs) of a 5-methoxymethyldeoxyuridine-resistant (MMdUr) mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and its parent wild-type (wt). It was found that the Kis for the 5-position analogues MMdU, [E]-5-(2-bromovinyl)deoxyuridine, bromodeoxyuridine and iododeoxyuridine were increased approximately three-to fivefold, suggesting that they were poorer substrates for the MMdUr dTK than for the wt dTK. With the 2' analogues arabinosylthymine and 2' fluoro 5-methylarabinosyluracil, however, the Kis were increased to a much greater extent, 80- and 240-fold, respectively. These findings suggest that the resistance of the mutant MMdUr to these analogues may be due to a mutation(s) in the viral dTK that directly affects binding at the 2' recognition site and indirectly at the 5, while still allowing substantial activity with the natural substrate deoxythymidine.
Analysis of competition for substrate sites in an allosteric enzyme with co-operative kinetics. Effects of dAMP and dUMP on donkey spleen deoxycytidylate aminohydrolase.	Hypotheses about the interactions of effectors with conformations of allosteric enzymes having co-operative kinetics can be tested simply and exactly without knowledge of the nature of the intersubunit co-operativity by using a linkage approach to the analysis of steady-state kinetics. Applying this approach to competition for substrate sites in the allosteric enzyme donkey spleen dCMP aminohydrolase, we show that the kinetics are consistent with the hypothesis that the substrate dCMP and the competitor dAMP, as well as the allosteric activator dCTP, bind exclusively to the same conformation of the enzyme subunits. The linkage test can be applied in the presence of other effectors without knowledge of how these interact with the enzyme. Our tests showed that dCMP and DAMP are still bound exclusively to this same conformation in the presence of the product dUMP or of the allosteric inhibitor dTTP. We give evidence that dUMP binds to the same conformation as dCMP, but that it is also bound to other conformation(s). The advantages of the linkage approach, and some general problems in steady-state kinetics of allosteric enzymes, are discussed.
Differences in the induction of thymidine kinase isozymes in estrogen-treated immature and adult rats.	Thymidine kinase activity in immature and castrated adult rat uterus has been examined in response to estrogen treatment. Following estrogen administration, it was found that immature uterine thymidine kinase activity was increased 30-fold after 24 h, but almost no effect was produced on castrated or non-castrated adult uterus. Uterine thymidine kinase activity was separated into three peaks (peak 1, 2 and 3) by means of DEAE-cellulose column chromatography. In response to estrogen, the thymidine kinase isozymes differed in adult and immature uteri. In immature uteri, marked and selective increase of the activity was found in peak I, whereas in adult only a slight increase in peak 2 activity was observed. The thymidine kinase activity in peak 1 and peak 2 were found to have different enzymatic properties and molecular weight, as determined by gel filtration of 125 000 for peak 1 and 100 000 for peak 2. From these results, it is suggested that estrogen induces specific thymidine kinase isozyme in immature uterus and that the isozyme may be involved in DNA synthesis. Such a induction mechanism seems to be lost during the development.
Stimulation of DNA polymerase gamma activity by proliferating cell nuclear antigen.	DNA polymerase was partially purified from mitochondrial extracts of rat liver by phosphocellulose, DEAE-cellulose, heparin-Sepharose CL-6B and DNA-agarose column chromatography. By these purification steps, DNA polymerase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were completely separated at the step of heparin-Sepharose CL-6B column chromatography. The isolated DNA polymerase was inhibited by ddTTP, but not by aphidicolin. The enzyme sedimented at about 8 S on 5-20% analytical sucrose density gradient centrifugation. These data showed that the DNA polymerase isolated from mitochondria is gamma in type. After the separation of DNA polymerase gamma and PCNA, the two fractions were remixed and DNA polymerase gamma activity was measured. DNA polymerase gamma activity was stimulated about three-fold or more in the presence of the PCNA fraction. This stimulation was inhibited by the addition of anti-PCNA rabbit IgG2a. In addition, highly purified human recombinant PCNA stimulated the DNA polymerase gamma activity. These results indicate that DNA polymerase gamma, like DNA polymerase delta, is activated by PCNA.
Lack of synergy in the inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase by combinations of the 5'-triphosphates of various anti-HIV nucleoside analogs.	3'-Deoxy-3'-azidothymidine (AZT) has been shown to synergistically inhibit the replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in cell culture when combined with several other 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside analogs. In an effort to understand the biochemical mechanism of this synergy, we have examined the effect of combinations of the 5'-triphosphate of AZT (AZT-TP) with either ddCTP, ddATP, or the 5'-triphosphate of the carbocyclic analog of 2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine (carbovir) on both the RNA-directed and DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. Kinetic studies, which evaluated the ability of these combinations to competitively inhibit the enzyme, showed that AZT-TP could not bind to the enzyme with either the RNA or DNA template at the same time as either of the other three inhibitors. None of these analogs could affect the incorporation of another analog into the DNA chain by the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. These results indicated that synergistic inhibition of the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase is not responsible for the synergistic antiviral activity seen in cell culture with combinations of these nucleoside analogs.
5'-Hydrogenphosphonates of anti-HIV nucleoside analogues revisited: controversial mode of action.	The monomeric and symmetrical dimeric 5'-hydrogenphosphonate derivatives of AZT were prepared and evaluated for their inhibitory properties against HIV-1 in several cell lines. The synthesis of the compounds was achieved by reaction of AZT with in situ prepared phosphorus tris(imidazolide) or with phosphonic acid in the presence of pivaloyl chloride. The two title compounds showed in vitro anti-HIV activity similar to (but not better than) that of AZT in three cell lines which were not deficient in thymidine kinase. On the other hand they were inactive in CEM-TK- cells. Pharmacokinetic studies in several media corroborate the assumption that these compounds must not be considered as 'true antiviral agents', but that they act by releasing their nucleoside entity.
A meiotic DNA polymerase from Coprinus cinereus: further purification and characterization.	A meiotic DNA polymerase that is present at a high level of activity in meiotic cells of a basidiomycete, Coprinus cinereus, was purified to near homogeneity using synthetic RNA homopolymer [poly(C)] cellulose column chromatography. This report presents the first extensive purification and characterization of any eukaryotic DNA polymerase having a role in meiosis. This enzyme is a single polypeptide with a molecular mass of 65,000. Activity in this enzyme requires magnesium ions and occurs at an optimal pH of 7.5. It is strongly inhibited by dideoxythymidine triphosphate but is relatively insensitive to aphidicolin and N-ethylmaleimide and can use poly(C)/oligo(dG)12-18 as a template-primer. Polymerase activity can be found only in cells at meiotic prophase, even though the enzyme has been identified in somatic cells in an inactive state using immunoblot analysis. Its distinctive distribution makes possible a genetic and biochemical analysis of functional role of a meiotic DNA polymerase in meiotic recombination, repair and synthesis.
Pyrimidine nucleotide-stimulated thromboxane A2 release from cultured glia.	1. Uridine triphosphate (UTP), uridine diphosphate (UDP), cytidine triphosphate (CTP), and deoxythymidine triphosphate (TTP) caused concentration-dependent increases in the release of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) from cultured glia prepared from the newborn rat cerebral cortex. Although each of the pyrimidine nucleotides displayed similar potencies, CTP and TTP were considerably less effective than either UTP or UDP. The purine nucleotide ATP was equally as potent as the pyrimidine nucleotides but was marginally less effective than either UTP or UDP. 2. The ability of UTP, UDP, TTP, and CTP to promote TXA2 release from cultured glia was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by suramin and was markedly reduced when incubations were performed either in Ca(2+)-free medium or on cultures which had been maintained in serum-free growth medium for 4 days prior to experimentation. 3. Challenges with UTP and UDP in combination were found to elicit a response which was no different from the effects of these nucleotides alone; in addition, their effects were reversed by the phospholipase A2 inhibitor ONO-RS-082. A slight reduction in UTP- and UDP-stimulated TXA2 release was observed in cultures grown in the presence of leucine methyl ester, a treatment reported to limit microglial survival. 4. These results suggest that glia are targets for extracellular pyrimidine nucleotides and that their ability to release eicosanoids from these cells may be important in the brain's response to damage.
