A thyroglossal duct node as presenting symptom of Hashimoto's thyroiditis: a report of two cases.	Two patients with thyroglossal duct nodes are described. Both patients were suffering from autoimmune thyroiditis. The tumours resembling thyroglossal duct cysts presented as palpable nodes in the midline of the neck and moved upwards on swallowing. Both patients had normal serum thyroxine levels and slightly elevated TSH. To avoid unnecessary surgery, a diagnostic work-up with echography and fine needle aspiration cytology of the tumour is recommended.
Primary papillary carcinoma of a thyroglossal duct cyst: report of a case and literature review.	Thyroglossal duct cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development. They are twice as frequent as branchial cleft abnormalities and, in children, are second only to enlarged cervical lymph nodes as the cause of neck mass. Generally, duct cysts are benign, but 1 per cent of cases may be malignant. From the world literature, 114 cases of malignant thyroglossal cysts were available for review. With the addition of our own case, we discuss 115 instances of duct cysts. The different types of neoplasia described included thyroid papillary carcinoma in 81.7 per cent, mixed papillary-follicular carcinoma in 6.9 per cent, squamous cell carcinoma in 5.2 per cent, follicular and adenocarcinoma in 1.7 per cent each, and malignant struma, epidermoid carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma in 0.9 per cent each. Of the 115 cases surveyed, 35 thyroid glands were examined microscopically; of these, four (11.4 per cent) contained malignant foci. Whether these are primary malignancies of the thyroglossal duct cysts or metastases is discussed.
Thyroglossal cysts in patients over 30 years of age.	8 patients over 30 years of age with a thyroglossal cyst, who had not been operated on before and who underwent excision of the cyst by a Sistrunk procedure, are described. In 8 additional patients, a wait-and-see policy was adopted. Follow-up data of these 16 patients are reported 1.5-14 years after their last visit to the hospital. There were no recurrences in the group of treated patients. In the group of untreated patients, the cyst remained unchanged in 1, decreased in size in 3 and disappeared completely in the remaining 4 patients. The present study indicates that removal of a thyroglossal cyst in patients over 30 years of age is not obligatory.
Vagaries of thyroglossal duct cysts.	The thyroglossal duct cyst is the most common congenital cyst found in the neck, classically presenting as a paramidline mass in a healthy young adult. Fifty-three cases managed at the Brigham and Women's Hospital and Boston's Beth Israel Hospital over the past 10 years were reviewed. The unique presentation of papillary adenocarcinoma in TGDCs and findings in the elderly population are discussed. These cases represent both diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. The existing literature is correlated with our data, providing a treatise on management.
Thyroglossal duct cysts that mimic laryngeal masses.	Thyroglossal duct cysts are the most common nonodontogenic cysts to occur in the neck, and they often are situated in close proximity to the larynx. Despite this, they almost never present as an intralaryngeal mass. Three cases are cited in which intralaryngeal examination suggested that a larynx lesion was present. In two cases, a submucosal supraglottic mass was seen, while in the third case, the thyroid cartilage was eroded and a laryngeal malignancy was suspected. The role of CT in diagnosing and mapping these tumors is discussed.
Adenocarcinoma of the thyroglossal duct]	Carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct is a rare entity. In most cases, papillary carcinomas are reported. Follicular or squamous cell carcinomas are seldom. Insofar no capsular refraction exists, the best treatment seems to be the Sistrunk operation with postoperative thyroid suppression medication.
Squamous cell carcinoma arising in thyroglossal duct remnant cyst epithelium.	The extremely rare occurrence of invasive squamous cell carcinoma arising from normal epithelial lining of a thyroglossal duct remnant cyst is documented by demonstrating the histopathologic transition from normal squamous epithelium to squamous cell carcinoma. The requirements that must be fulfilled to accept a lesion as arising de novo from the epithelial lining are outlined, and all requirements are achieved. The lesion is differentiated from the less rare papillary or papillary-follicular adenocarcinoma of residual thyroid tissue of the thyroglossal duct tract remnants. This is the sixth report in the world literature of invasive squamous cell carcinoma arising from benign thyroglossal remnant squamous epithelium, and the second demonstrating the transition from normal squamous epithelium to invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
Preoperative thyroid ultrasonography and fine-needle aspiration cytology in ectopic thyroid.	Ectopic thyroid tissue is a rare entity. The occurrence of a thyroid carcinoma in such aberrant thyroid tissue has been reported, but is very rare. Surgical excision is considered the treatment of choice in managing the lesions associated with ectopic thyroid. If the ectopic thyroid is excised, all the thyroid may have been ablated, resulting in permanent hypothyroidism. We report two cases of ectopic thyroid in emphasizing the importance of thyroid ultrasonography and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytology in evaluating ectopic thyroid before surgery.
Unusual inflamed thyroglossal cyst.	The authors report a case of an unusual inflammatory reaction in a thyroglossal cyst. It consisted of broad papillary intraluminal projections covered by histiocytes and occasional multinucleate giant cells. This benign process should not be confused with a true papillary neoplasm, a rare complication of a thyroglossal cyst.
Carcinoma arising in thyroglossal remnants.	Three patients with a papillary carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst are presented and the literature is reviewed. This rare malignancy is seen mostly in women between the ages of 20 and 50 years. The distribution of carcinoma subtypes differs from that of thyroid carcinomas and thyroglossal duct carcinoma is recognized as a primary tumour. The diagnosis is seldom made pre-operatively though especially in older patients with midline swellings in the neck the diagnosis should be considered. Sistrunk's operation is the treatment of choice. In this operation the cyst, the middle part of the hyoid bone and the thyroglossal duct are removed in continuity.
Papillary carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant with normal thyroid gland.	Carcinoma in the thyroglossal duct remnant is relatively uncommon. Since the first report by Uchermann (1915), more than 150 cases of carcinoma have been reported, and the majority have been papillary thyroid carcinomas (Li Volsi et al., 1974; McNicol et al., 1988). In this report, we present a case of papillary carcinoma in the thyroglossal duct with a normal thyroid gland.
Papillary carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant--a review of thyroglossal surgery in a regional centre in the west of Ireland.	A review of thyroglossal duct remnants presenting to a regional centre in the West of Ireland was undertaken. Over a 15 yr period, 25 patients were operated on for duct remnants. The mean age was 19.6 yr and ranged from 3 to 68 yr. There were 16 (64 per cent) males and 9 (36 per cent) females. Seventeen (68 per cent) patients were less than 20 years at the time of surgery. Four patients presented with a sinus and the remainder with a cystic lesion. Two patients experienced recurrent disease. One patient, a 41 yr old female, had a papillary carcinoma of a thyroglossal cyst. There were no clinical features distinguishing this patient from those with benign cystic remnants of the thyroglossal duct. The possibility of carcinoma in older patients, in particular females, presenting with thyroglossal cysts emphasises the importance of performing a formal Sistrunk's operation. It reduces the risk of recurrence of the cyst and may reduce the risk of recurrence of the tumour as the duct may provide a route for the spread of tumour.
