Thyroid-specific enhancer-binding protein/thyroid transcription factor 1 is not required for the initial specification of the thyroid and lung primordia.	Targeted disruption of the homeobox gene T/ebp (Ttf1) in mice results in ablation of the thyroid and pituitary, and severe deformities in development of the lung and hypothalamus. T/ebp is expressed in the thyroid, lung, and ventral forebrain during normal embryogenesis. Examination of thyroid development in T/ebp homozygous null mutant embryos revealed that the thyroid rudiment is initially formed but is eliminated through apoptosis. Absence of T/EBP expression in the lung primordium does not activate apoptosis since a lung tissue, albeit dysmorphic, is nevertheless formed in T/ebp-/- embryos. These results demonstrate that T/EBP is not required for the initial specification of thyroid or lung primordia, but is absolutely essential for the development and morphogenesis of these organs.
Effects of iodine repletion on thyroid morphology in iodine and/or selenium deficient rat term fetuses, pups and mothers.	It has been suggested that selenium deficiency aggravates the iodine-induced thyroid inflammation and necrosis in iodine-deficient Wistar rats and possibly in man. Studies were carried out to determine whether large amounts of iodine given to iodine-deficient pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats with or without selenium deficiency would induce inflammation and necrosis in their term fetal thyroids. Iodine deficiency was induced in the dams by a low iodine diet or perchlorate in the drinking water and iodine excess was achieved by iodinated drinking water during pregnancy or daily subcutaneous injections of iodine from days 20 to 22 of pregnancy, 1 day after perchlorate was discontinued. Studies were also carried out in 30-day-old pups whose nursing mothers were iodine-deficient (perchlorate) with or without selenium deficiency from conception onward. The administration of iodine restored the morphologic changes in the thyroid induced by iodine deficiency, irrespective of selenium status, toward normal without inflammatory changes or necrosis. Possible explanations for these unexpected findings are discussed.
Expression of the genes for alpha-type and beta-type calcitonin gene-related peptide during rat embryogenesis.	Throughout rat embryogenesis we analysed the expression patterns of the three mature transcripts generated from the two calcitonin gene-related peptide genes: calcitonin, alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide, and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs. In addition, we examined in parallel the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide and calcitonin immunoreactivity. Of the three transcripts, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was first detected in sensory ganglia on embryonic day 14, and by embryonic day 15 was seen to a lesser degree in motor neurons and autonomic ganglia. Starting at embryonic day 16, however, the highest levels of beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA were found in motor neurons rather than sensory ganglia. Alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was first detected on embryonic day 16 in both sensory ganglia and motor neurons, but at lower levels than beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide, particularly in the motor neurons of the spinal cord. By embryonic day 20, transcripts for alpha- and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide were expressed in distinct brain regions. High levels of alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA were detected in hypoglossal, facial, and parabrachial nuclei, and moderate levels in the trigeminal motor and ambiguus nuclei. By contrast, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was detected at low levels in hypoglossal, ambiguus, facial, and parabrachial nuclei, and at high levels in the trigeminal nucleus. In the oculomotor-trochlear nucleus, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was the sole isotype expressed. Low levels of messenger RNA for both calcitonin gene-related peptide transcripts were appreciated in the inferior olive. Outside the nervous system, alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was weakly expressed in the thyroid gland and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in the thymus. Throughout embryogenesis, calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity usually followed the expression of either alpha- or beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA. Calcitonin messenger RNA and protein were detected only in the thyroid gland from embryonic day 18 onward. This work shows that of the three mature transcripts produced by the two calcitonin gene-related peptide genes, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA is the predominant transcript produced early in rat embryogenesis. However, by perinatal stages alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide shows the highest expression in the brain and spinal cord. In autonomic ganglia, beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide is either the sole or the predominant transcript. Unlike the chick embryo in which calcitonin messenger RNA is expressed early in the CNS, in rat it was only expressed outside the nervous system in the thyroid gland during the last days of embryogenesis.
Perturbed thyroid morphology and transient hypothyroidism symptoms in Hoxa5 mutant mice.	The Hox family of transcriptional regulators has been extensively studied for their role in axial and appendicular patterning. Genetic analyses have also unveiled Hox gene function in organogenesis and postnatal development. A phenotypical survey of the Hoxa5(-/-) mutant mice shows that the surviving mutants display symptoms of hypothyroidism, including transient growth retardation, and delayed eye opening and ear elevation. Thyroid gland morphogenesis initiates normally, but follicle formation and thyroglobulin processing are abnormal at late gestation. The expression of several molecular markers essential for thyroid gland formation and function, namely Nkx2.1, Pax8, and Titf2, is affected in the developing thyroid gland of Hoxa5(-/-) mutants. As a consequence, the expression of thyroid effector genes, including the thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase genes, is perturbed. Our characterization reveals that the loss of Hoxa5 function transiently affects thyroid development in a non-cell autonomous manner.
Thyroid gland clonality revisited: the embryonal patch size of the normal human thyroid gland is very large, suggesting X-chromosome inactivation tumor clonality studies of thyroid tumors have to be interpreted with caution.	It is widely assumed thyroid carcinomas, adenomas, and many hyperplastic nodules are monoclonal. This belief is based on X-chromosome inactivation analyses of thyroid tumors. However, X-chromosome inactivation studies of tumors are informative only when interpreted in the context of the clonal composition of the surrounding normal tissue, and in the case of thyroid tissue, such analyses have never been systematically performed in humans. The aim of this study was to determine the embryonal patch size of the human thyroid gland. We performed human androgen receptor (HUMARA) assay-based X-chromosome inactivation analysis on 20 microdissected normal thyroid specimens from 16 female subjects. Monoclonality was observed in 70% of tested specimens, and polyclonal X-inactivation patterns were present in only 30% of specimens. According to our results the monoclonal patch size of normal human thyroid tissue is between 48 mm(2) and 128 mm(2) (1-4 x 10(5) thyrocytes). Our data indicate that normal thyroid epithelium is organized into large stem cell-derived monoclonal patches. Therefore, monoclonality in neoplastic and hyperplastic lesions may just be a reflection of normal thyroid epithelium clonal composition.
Thyroid hormone receptor alpha is a molecular switch of cardiac function between fetal and postnatal life.	Thyroid hormones are involved in the regulation of many physiological processes and regulate gene transcription by binding to their nuclear receptors TRalpha and TRbeta. In the absence of triiodothyronine (T3), the unliganded receptors (aporeceptors) do bind DNA and repress the transcription of target genes. The role of thyroid hormone aporeceptors as repressors was observed in hypothyroid adult mice, but its physiological relevance in nonpathological hypothyroid conditions remained to be determined. Here we show that, in the normal mouse fetus, TRalpha aporeceptors repress heart rate as well as the expression of TRbeta and several genes encoding ion channels involved in cardiac contractile activity. Right after birth, when T3 concentration sharply increases, liganded TRalpha (holoreceptors) turn on the expression of some of these same genes concomitantly with heart rate increase. These data describe a physiological situation under which conversion of TRalpha from apo-receptors into holo-receptors, upon changes in T3 availability, plays a determinant role in a developmental process.
Changes in thyroxine, 3,3',5-triiodothyronine and 3,3'5'-triiodothyronine content in the thyroid gland and in serum to thyroid tissue iodothyronine ratios during ontogenesis in the fetal pig.	The concentrations of thyroxine (T4), 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) and 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (reverse T3; rT3) in thyroid gland tissue and serum of the fetal pig (n = 68) from day 39 to 113 of gestation were measured. Tracer quantities of iodothyronines, displaying the onset of thyroid hormone activity, were found in the thyroid tissue on day 39, i.e. before the appearance of a measurable quantity of iodothyronines in the serum. The T4 and T3 thyroidal content showed the first rise between days 56 and 76. Then, T3 was increasing sharply from day 92 till birth, while T4 content was decreasing from about day 76 to a low value between day 92 and 105, and then showing an increase shortly before birth. The rT3 content was the highest on day 39 and then it was steadily decreasing to reach a nadir on about day 76. Measurable amounts of thyroid hormones (TH) in the serum were observed not earlier than on day 46 of gestation. Near birth, the tissues of the pig fetus are in a milieu characterised by the highest blood TH concentrations. The serum to thyroid concentration ratio for rT3 and T4 was generally below 1.0 until the last trimester of gestation, when it was over 5.0 for rT3 and over 4.0 for T4. By contrast, the T3 serum to thyroid ratio was below 0.5 throughout the gestation. The results show that the fetal pig thyroid displays a low rT3 and T4 content, but the marked T3 elevation observed near term supports the view that a high production and secretion of T3 near term may be a critical factor for normal postnatal adaptation to extrauterine cooling in the pig.
Cystic tumor of the atrioventricular node of the heart appears to be the heart equivalent of the solid cell nests (ultimobranchial rests) of the thyroid.	We studied a series of 10 solid cell nests (SCNs) of the thyroid and a case of cystic tumor of the atrioventricular node (CTAVN) of the heart and reviewed the literature. The CTAVN and SCNs appeared as cystic and/or solid (squamoid) structures mainly composed of polygonal or oval cells (main cells) admixed with occasional clear cells (neuroendocrine and C cells). Main cells were immunoreactive for simple and stratified epithelial-type cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, carbohydrate antigen 19.9, p63, bcl-2, and galectin-3. Neuroendocrine (and C) cells were positive for simple-type cytokeratins, carcinoembryonic antigen, calcitonin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and thyroid transcription factor-1. Our data support the hypothesis that the CTAVN of the heart and the SCNs of the thyroid are identical structures that represent the same lesional process. The assumption that CTAVN is a ultimobranchial heterotopia fits with the known role of cardiac neural crest cells in cardiovascular development.
L-thyroxine and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine concentrations in the chicken egg and in the embryo before and after the onset of thyroid function.	The concentrations of T4 and T3 were measured by specific RIAs in chicken embryonated eggs and embryonic tissues before (at 4 and 6 days of incubation) and after the onset of thyroid function (at 10-20 days). All samples were submitted to extensive delipidation and purification. T4 and T3 were found in the yolk, as described by others, and also in the egg white, although at lower concentrations. The initial total maternal supplies per egg are 67 ng T4 and 30 ng T3 in the yolk, and 2.4 ng T4 and 1.9 ng T3 in the egg albumen. Whole 4-day-old embryos contained a total of 2.48 pg T4 and 0.65 pg T3. The head (mostly brain) of 6-day old embryos contained 4.1 pg T4 and 4.6 pg T3; T4 (but not T3) was also measurable in the carcass. The concentrations of T4 increased progressively between 10 and 20 days in the brain, eyes, liver, and heart; they were especially high in the eyes (4.8 ng/g) and liver (8.2 ng/g) at 20 days. T3 levels increased markedly in the brain (to 5.1 ng/g at 20 days) and less markedly in the eyes (to 1.3 ng/g) and heart (to 1.6 ng/g), but were low and stable in liver up to 18 days (0.3 ng/g), after which there was a sudden increase to 1.4 ng/g at 20 days. Iodothyronines are, therefore, available to the chick embryo throughout development both before and after the onset of thyroid function. T3 concentrations, especially in the brain, reach much higher levels than previously inferred from the low plasma T3 levels. These findings show similarities with those described for the fetal rat.
Fetal cell carcinogenesis of the thyroid: theory and practice.	A novel hypothesis of thyroid carcinogenesis, the "fetal cell carcinogenesis" hypothesis, in which cancer cells are derived from the remnants of three types of fetal thyroid cells, instead of normal thyroid follicular cells, is proposed. In this hypothesis, thyroid cancer cells are generated from fetal cells by proliferation without differentiation and oncogenes play an oncogenic role by preventing fetal cells from differentiating. This hypothesis explains well the clinical and biological features and recent molecular evidence of thyroid carcinoma. It underscores the importance of clarifying the molecular mechanism of thyroid development and the identification of fetal thyroid cells, especially thyroid stem cells (TSCs), since such data will lead to better understanding of thyroid carcinoma and other thyroid diseases.
Iodine intake in pregnancy in Ireland--a cause for concern?	Adequate dietary iodine intake is necessary to maintain maternal thyroid function at a level permitting normal neuropsychological development of the foetus.
Sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) gene expression is the limiting step for the onset of thyroid function in the human fetus.	Terminal differentiation of the human thyroid is characterized by the onset of follicle formation and thyroid hormone synthesis at 11 gestational weeks (GW).
Morphological studies of the foramen caecum linguae of the human and guinea pig tongue.	A three-dimensional study of the development of the thyroid gland in human and guinea pig embryos was made together with a histological investigation of the foramen caecum of the human adult tongue. In the human embryo, an epithelial depression was not seen between the first and second branchial arches except a shallow sulcus. Ciliated cells were observed on the dorsal surface of the tongue in all embryos which exceeded 18 mm in crown-rump length. The presence of a foramen caecum was observed in 18 (51%) cadavers from 35 human adults. Several circumvallate papillae were found in a 10-mm-deep foramen caecum on the side adjacent to the anterior two thirds of the tongue. In all specimens serous glands open into the foramen caecum.
Maturation of the secretion of thyroid hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone in the fetus.	Data on human fetal thyroid function have largely been derived from histologic studies or studies of cord-blood samples obtained at hysterotomy or delivery. These data may not represent true normal values. Cordocentesis (ultrasound-guided blood sampling from the umbilical cord) is a technique that allows investigation of physiologic processes in fetuses not under stress.
Multinodular goitre in lingual thyroid: case report.	We report a case of a multinodular goitre developing in a lingual thyroid.
Smoking during pregnancy: a significant cause of neonatal thyroid enlargement.	The influence of maternal smoking during pregnancy on the function and the echographic volume of the neonatal thyroid gland was examined in an area of borderline iodine intake (median maternal urinary iodine: 315 range 79-1558 nmol/l). There was a positive correlation (P less than 0.001) between cord serum thiocyanate (SCN) concentrations used as an index of maternal smoking and the maternal smoking habits. The thyroid volume/birthweight ratio increased significantly as a function of SCN values (P less than 0.005): this increase was secondary to a decrease in birthweight as well as to an increase in thyroid volume. There was also a positive correlation between cord serum thyroglobulin (Tg) and SCN levels (P = 0.001). Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and free thyroxine (FT4) values remained within the normal range for age in all newborn infants and were not significantly correlated with SCN values. These results show that smoking during pregnancy in areas with borderline iodine intake may be a significant cause of thyroid enlargement in the newborn.
Diagnostic dilemmas. Results of screening tests for congenital hypothyroidism.	The natural history of congenital hypothyroidism has changed drastically since the institution of newborn screening in North America, Europe, and Japan. Before screening was available, diagnosis of this condition was often delayed. The IQ of 65% of all patients with congenital hypothyroidism was below 85, and 19% were profoundly retarded (IQ less than 15). In two large screening programs in which long-term IQ data are available, no child has tested below the IQ of 74. Furthermore, a comparison of affected children treated within the first month of life with matched controls demonstrated no significant difference in IQ scores between the two groups. Widespread screening has lead to the evaluation of over 7 million infants annually. This represents over 1200 fewer children with subnormal intelligence, and approximately 360 children annually who are saved from the effects of profound mental retardation. There is little doubt that newborn screening is one of the greatest advances in diagnosis and treatment of endocrine disease in the newborn period to occur in the past 20 years. However, even experienced screening programs are not perfect, so the practitioner must remain alert to the possibility of undiagnosed hypothyroidism presenting in infancy.
Fetal thyroid in two-dimensional ultrasonography: nomograms according to gestational age and biparietal diameter.	To establish fetal thyroid nomograms based on gestational age and biparietal diameter and to compare obtained results with previously published data.
Maternal high-fat diet modulates the fetal thyroid axis and thyroid gene expression in a nonhuman primate model.	Thyroid hormone (TH) is an essential regulator of both fetal development and energy homeostasis. Although the association between subclinical hypothyroidism and obesity has been well studied, a causal relationship has yet to be established. Using our well-characterized nonhuman primate model of excess nutrition, we sought to investigate whether maternal high-fat diet (HFD)-induced changes in TH homeostasis may underlie later in life development of metabolic disorders and obesity. Here, we show that in utero exposure to a maternal HFD is associated with alterations of the fetal thyroid axis. At the beginning of the third trimester, fetal free T(4) levels are significantly decreased with HFD exposure compared with those of control diet-exposed offspring. Furthermore, transcription of the deiodinase, iodothyronine (DIO) genes, which help maintain thyroid homeostasis, are significantly (P < 0.05) disrupted in the fetal liver, thyroid, and hypothalamus. Genes involved in TH production are decreased (TRH, TSHR, TG, TPO, and SLC5A5) in hypothalamus and thyroid gland. In experiments designed to investigate the molecular underpinnings of these observations, we observe that the TH nuclear receptors and their downstream regulators are disrupted with maternal HFD exposure. In fetal liver, the expression of TH receptor β (THRB) is increased 1.9-fold (P = 0.012). Thorough analysis of the THRB promoter reveals a maternal diet-induced alteration in the fetal THRB histone code, alongside differential promoter occupancy of corepressors and coactivators. We speculate that maternal HFD exposure in utero may set the stage for later in life obesity through epigenomic modifications to the histone code, which modulates the fetal thyroid axis.
Size and location of thyroid gland in the fetal period.	The present study's purpose was to examine the size and location of the thyroid gland using anatomic dissection methods on fetal cadavers.
Fetal thyroïdology.	Advances in prenatal imaging techniques and in fetal hormonology now allow for identification of disorders of thyroid function in the fetus. These can potentially be treated in utero by giving drugs to the mother. This review shows the feasibility of in utero treatment of fetal thyroid disorders, either indirectly by treating the mother or by giving the necessary drugs directly to the fetus. For goitrous fetal hypothyroidism leading to hydramnios, repeated intra-amniotic injections of thyroxine have been reported to decrease the size of the fetal thyroid. Experience with such procedures is limited but positive. The risk that direct in utero treatment of the fetus may provoke premature labor or cause infection should be carefully evaluated. In women with Graves' disease, autoimmune fetal hyperthyroidism can generally be treated in a noninvasive way by optimizing treatment of the mother, such as by increasing the dose of antithyroid drugs. Follow-up of the efficacy and the possible long-term consequences of medical interventions to normalize thyroid function of the fetus are of great importance. Specialized care of the fetus should be provided by skilled teams with extensive experience in prenatal care. 
Fetal hypothyroidism and maternal thyroid status in severe endemic goiter.	The relationship between maternal thyroid function and newborn thyroid function was studied in a region of very severe endemic goiter (Ubangi, Republic of Zaïre). T4, T3, and TSH concentrations were measured in the sera of 56 mothers (at the time of delivery) and 60 newborns (in the cord). The results obtained in these groups (untreated) were compared with those obtained in two control groups, comprising 53 mothers whose iodine deficiency had been corrected by the injection of iodized oil and 68 neonates born to such mothers. The results show that the mean (+/- SEM) T4 serum concentration (micrograms per dl) was 11.5 +/- 0.7 in the untreated mothers compared with 15.7 +/- 0.7 in the treated mothers (P less than 0.001), and 9.4 +/- 0.8 in the untreated newborns compared with 12.4 +/- 0.5 in the newborns of treated mothers (P less than 0.01). The values observed for the mean T3 serum concentrations (nanograms per dl) in the same groups were 171 +/- 10 and 154 +/- 9 (mothers; P greater than 0.05) and 68 +/- 6 and 55 +/- 6 (newborns; P greater than 0.05); the mean TSH serum concentrations (microunits per ml) were 8.7 (7.6 - 9.9) and 5.4 (4.9 - 5.9; mothers; P less than 0.001) and 19.6 (16.6 - 23.2) and 6.4 (5.8 - 7.0; newborns; P less than 0.001). The proportion of untreated newborns, i.e. 40%, with individual TSH values deviating by more than 2 SDS above the mean of the treated newborns is much greater than the corresponding proportion, i.e. 15%, of untreated mothers in relation to the treated ones. In 6 out of 34 untreated newborns, definite biochemical signs of congenital hypothyroidism were observed. Correlation coefficients were calculated between the untreated subjects. A positive correlation coefficient of 0.80 (P less than 0.001) was observed between the serum T4 concentrations of the mothers and those of the newborns, and one of 0.61 (P less than 0.001) was observed between their respective serum TSH values. Significant inverse correlations were observed between maternal serum T4 and cord serum TSH (-0.79; P less than 0.001) and between cord T4 concentrations and maternal TSH concentrations (-0.57; P less than 0.01). No definite trend is observed between the variations of serum T3 on one hand, and those of serum T4 or serum TSH on the other hand. Out of 51 mothers in whom serum T4 was determined, 11 showed values below 8 micrograms /dl; the newborns of those mothers showed very low serum T4 values (5.5 +/- 1.6 micrograms/100 ml) and extremely high serum TSH levels [144 (98-210) microU/ml]. It is concluded that, contrary to the situation observed in physiological conditions, maternal thyroid function in regions of severe endemic goiter is a good indicator of newborn thyroid function. The reasons for this probably lie in the influence of environmental factors acting simultaneously on the mother and the fetus.
Thyroid function in embryonic and early posthatch chickens and quail.	Technological advances, especially radioimmunoassays, have led to good descriptive information about the timing and pattern of development of the thyroid gland (TG) and circulating thyroid hormone (TH). Immunocytochemical studies in combination with more traditional techniques such as gland ablation and hormone replacement have revealed the time of appearance of each hormone in the axis, the relative amounts of hormone present in each gland at different developmental stages, and a general picture of the pattern of maturation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Studies of the pituitary control of the TG remain limited by the lack of adequately specific techniques for measuring avian thyroid-stimulating hormone. Our understanding of peripheral TH dynamics is progressing as a result of iodothyronine deiodinase assays but full understanding will require more elaborate studies that adequately characterize the enzyme system(s) in each case. Molecular techniques have made powerful strides in identifying the gene responsible for producing a protein that appears to be the triiodothyronine receptor. Receptor assays have revealed the pattern of changes in receptor-binding capacities during development but have not yet revealed how binding of hormone to the receptor triggers cellular activity. Molecular genetic techniques are being used to reveal the mechanisms whereby some examples of developmental events (e.g., malic enzyme synthesis) are induced by TH. Although it is not yet possible to assess the value of molecular studies in this area for developing practical applications, these techniques are revealing the fundamental biological roles of TH in growth and development.
Interception of the development of self tolerance in fetal lambs.	Investigation of the nature of immunological self tolerance has usually relied upon experimental protocols in which the tolerant state is interrupted in mature animals with the production of autoimmune disease. While such research has improved the understanding of those processes operative in overt autoimmunity, it has not been informative in relation to events associated with the establishment of self tolerance. Any description of this state which is to be based on observation will necessitate the use of experimental systems that permit observation of animals during the development of self tolerance. The present experiment entailed intervention approximately one third of the way through the gestation period of fetal lambs. An earlier experiment had established that 54-day fetal lambs would accept allografts of adult skin. This indicated that the capacity to discriminate between self and non-self had not been acquired at that age. Fetuses at this stage of gestation were submitted to either partial or total removal of the thyroid gland. The excised tissue was then implanted in nude mice for periods of 5 to 9 weeks. It was subsequently replaced subcutaneously, either in the original donor or in another fetus at a comparable stage of gestation. At postmortem examination, several weeks later, self implants in lambs from which the thyroid gland had been completely removed displayed autoimmune thyroiditis of varying degrees of severity. However, self implants in partially thyroidectomized animals were uniformly free from autoimmune manifestations. This implied that these reactions had not been directed against contaminating murine tissues in the implants replaced in completely thyroidectomized lambs. All allogeneic implants were subject to vey heavy lymphocytic infiltration, usually with accompanying necrosis consistent with allograft rejection. This was taken as an indication that hypothyroid fetal lambs had become immunocompetent by the time of thyroid reimplantation. Spontaneous immunological reactivity against reimplanted self thyroid tissue by thyroidectomized lambs was interpreted as a failure to acquire the capacity for self recognition as a result of antigen deprivation.
The effect of small doses of ionizing radiation on the cAMP system in the thyroid gland of chick embryos]	Adenylate cyclase activity and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) content were studied in the thyroid gland of intact and irradiated (0.029 Gy given before incubation) embryos and chickens. The enzyme activity was stimulated and the nucleotide content increased on the 18th day of the embryo development. It is suggested that the observed stimulation of the cAMP system is associated with the increased secretion of the thyrotropic hormone which controls the functional activity of the thyroid gland.
Effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on development of the pituitary-thyroid system in fetal rats in organ culture.	Six groups of thyroid glands from 18-day fetal rats were explanted to organ culture for 2 days. In one group, thyroid was cultured alone and in the remaining five groups thyroid was cocultured with pituitaries from fetuses ranging in age from 17 to 21 days. In each of the groups, half of the cultures had thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) added to the medium. Histometric parameters of the thyroid follicle such as diameter and cell height were used as indicators of development of the thyroid gland. When 18-day thyroid was cultured alone, addition of TRH did not accelerate development. When either one 18-day or two 17-day pituitaries were cocultured with thyroid, a significant increase in diameter and cell height was seen. Addition of TRH to the medium induced little or no further change. When the thyroid was cultured with 19- to 21-day pituitaries, a marked increase in thyroid development was observed; and the addition of TRH caused further acceleration in thyroid development. These results suggest that, in organ culture, 17- to 18-day pituitary glands can release some thyrotropin (TSH) with or without additional TRH. Older pituitaries (19- to 21-day) apparently can release an amount of TSH in the presence of TRH that is greater than their own spontaneous TSH secretion.
Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen (HLA-DR, DQ, and DP) expression in human fetal endocrine organs and gut.	Monoclonal antibodies were used to analyse adrenal, pancreas, thyroid, and gut samples from human fetuses (14-19 weeks estimated gestational age; EGA) for the presence of class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens (HLA-DR, DQ, DP) by immunohistochemistry. In the adrenal definitive and fetal cortex, HLA-DR+, DP-, DQ- cells were clearly demonstrated. These DR+ cells were identified, phentotypically, as predominantly tissue macrophages and a small population of CD45R+, IgM+ lymphoid cells. Within the pancreas, numerous cells throughout the tissue were strongly DR+ but DQ-; DP+ cells were not observed until 17 weeks EGA. Using a double-labelling procedure, minor proportions of these DR+ cells were identified as macrophages or as (CD19+) B cells, while endocrine and endothelial cells were negative. Throughout the thyroid, small numbers of DR+ macrophages and small lymphoid cells were detected, although the thyroid epithelial cells were DR-, DP-, and DQ-. Large numbers of DR+, DP+, DQ- cells were observed in the stomach wall and mucosa. In the intestine, DR+, DP+, DQ+ cells positive for all MHC class II loci products were abundant throughout the lamina propria and lymphoid aggregates. The class II antigens appeared in the proportion DR greater than DP greater than DQ and expression was most prevalent in the mid-gut region. A small proportion of epithelial cells of the villi along the gut were weakly DR+ but DQ-, DP-. These results show that DR+ cells in fetal endocrine tissue are mainly 'passenger leucocytes' and that, in contrast to recent reports concerning normal adult tissue, the adrenal and pancreatic endothelial cells are DR-.
Acquisition of immunological self-recognition by the fetal rat.	Rats in which normal development of the thyroid gland had been interrupted by the injection of 131I during fetal life are liable to mount autoimmune responses against grafts of syngeneic thyroid tissue transplanted in adult life. Although autoimmune thyroiditis developed spontaneously in grafted tissue, the recipients' own thyroid glands remained free from autoimmune changes, showing only irradiation damage. Other syngeneic endocrine grafts transplanted to these rats were not susceptible to autoimmune attack. This experiment demonstrates that contact of self-determinants with the developing mammalian immune system is required if autoimmunity is to be prevented.
Levels  of triiodothyronine and reverse triiodothyronine in the thyroid glands of man and swine at different stages of development]	3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) and 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (rT3) were measured by radioimmunoassay in saline extracts of neonates and human adult thyroid tissues and of fetuses, Piglets and adult Swine thyroid tissues. In all these extracts, T3 content was higher than rT3 content whatever the period of development. Both triiodoamino acids represent a small percentage of the iodinated protein in thyroid tissues.
Antagonistic effects of retinoic acid and triiodothyronine in the expression of corticoid-binding globulin (CBG) by cultured fetal hepatocytes.	Cultures of rat fetal hepatocytes were used to investigate the effects and interplay of triiodothyronine (T3) and retinoic acid (RA) in the regulation of gene expression of CBG, compared to that of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). The cultured cells showed cytological features typical to hepatocytes and actually synthesized CBG and AFP, as evidenced from in situ hybridization with specific radioactive probes. Time course studies indicated that CBG (but not AFP) binding capacity in culture medium and cell mRNA levels disappeared with a half-life of about 2 days, thereby reflecting the decrease previously seen in hepatic CBG mRNA contents during embryonic life. The Kd values for CBG binding were unchanged under these conditions. Culturing of hepatocytes in the presence of T3 resulted in dose-dependent stimulations of both medium CBG and cell mRNA levels, with an EC50 concentration of about 10(-9) M. In sharp contrast, RA caused a reduction in CBG biosynthesis (IC50 = 1.7 x 10(-7) M) and, in addition, antagonized the stimulatory influence of T3. Under the same experimental conditions, AFP synthesis failed to be affected in a similar fashion. We conclude that thyroid hormones and RA directly act on hepatocytes to specifically regulate the expression of CBG in an antagonistic way.
The ultrastructural characteristics of the formation of the thyroid in fetuses of the pied lemming Dicrostonyx torguatus during its dynamic population cycle]	Thyroid formation in lemmings takes place at earlier embryonic stages as compared to that in laboratory rodents. Two modes of follicle formation in the thyroid gland are described, i.e. by means of formation of intracellular follicules and by transformation of the apical surface of future thyrocytes. Significance of each of these ways depends on the rate of formation of the thyroid gland, which in its turn is related to the density of population. At the stage of the increase in population density, differentiation of the thyroid gland begins before the 15th day of prenatal life. Follicle formation is associated with polarization of thyrocytes and transformation of future apical surface. The definite structure of the organ is complete to the 17th day. At maximum population density, significant inhibition of cyto- and histodifferentiation of the thyroid gland is observed, folliculogenesis being accomplished to the 3rd-6th day of postnatal life. At low population density, follicular structure of the thyroid gland is achieved already in 14-day foetuses. At the 19-20th day of prenatal life, the decrease in secretory activity of the organ together with inhibition of thyroglobulin iodination are observed.
Chronic placental insufficiency and histogenesis of fetal thyroid in late spontaneous abortions]	The role of chronic placental insufficiency in the ontogenetic maturation of fetal thyroid gland was studied in 75 cases. The second trimester of physiologically normal and complicated by premature delivery pregnancies showed correlations between organometric and histiostereometric indices of placenta and thyroid gland. In case of chronic placental insufficiency depression of placental metabolic processes was found associated with discoordination of histogenesis of fetal thyroid gland, a decrease of specific capacity of its parenchyma and vessels, as well as with growth of stroma component value. These prove reduced histiofunctional properties and adaptive reactions of placenta.
The effect of thyroidectomy on growth hormone regulation in the ovine fetus.	To test the hypothesis that growth hormone gene messenger RNA abundance in the fetus is subject to the same effects of thyroid hormone previously demonstrated in other situations, we evaluated the effect of thyroidectomy on pituitary GH mRNA content at three gestational ages in the ovine fetus. One of each twin pair of fetal lambs underwent thyroidectomy at 90, 100 or 110 days gestation. Fetal pituitaries were collected 25-30 days later. Plasma GH and IGF-I were measured as well as pituitary GH mRNA content. Serum growth hormone in the thyroidectomy group was less than in the control twins (129.8 vs 187.6 micrograms/l, P = 0.0. GH mRNA was likewise decreased in pituitaries of thyroidectomy fetuses compared to controls (1.01 vs 1.80 units, P = 0.0006). Serum IGF-I and body weight were similar in the thyroidectomy and control twins. We conclude that the ovine fetus in the final trimester of gestation exhibits effects of thyroid hormone on serum GH and mRNA abundance similar to those seen in postnatal animals.
