The value of ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) and frozen section examination (FS) in the diagnosis of thyroid cancer.	Although only a small minority of thyroid nodules are malignant, a large proportion of operations are performed to exclude malignancy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of preoperative ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) and intraoperative frozen section examination (FS) in the management of thyroid cancer.
Long-term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with solitary autonomously functioning toxic thyroid nodules.	To investigate the long-term effects of radioiodine (131I) on thyroid function and size in patients with a solitary toxic thyroid nodule.
Sclerosing Mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia of the thyroid glands: a case report with clinical manifestation of recurrent neck mass.	Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia (SMECE) is a recently recognized malignant neoplasm of the thyroid gland. About 14 cases of SMECE have been reported and this is the first reported case in Korea. A 57-year-old woman presented with right neck mass for 20 years. Total thyroidectomy was performed under the impression of thyroid carcinoma. The resected thyroid gland showed a poorly circumscribed hard mass. Histologically, the tumor consisted of solid nests of large atypical cells with dense fibrous stroma. The tumor cells showed squamoid appearance with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. There were also rare mucin-containing cells within the nests. Within the hyalinized stroma, numerous eosinophils were found. The surrounding thyroid parenchyma displayed Hashimoto's thyroiditis. There was metastasis in a regional lymph node. Two years after initial surgery, she underwent a modified radical neck dissection due to recurrent neck mass. After the radiation therapy for eight weeks, laryngectomy and esophagectomy were performed due to a recurrent carcinoma in the esophageal wall. We report an additional case of SMECE, with metastasis to regional lymph nodes and esophagus. The tumor appears to be more aggressive than previously reported and a correct diagnosis can be rendered by just examining the metastatic lesions.
Combined ultrasonographic and cytological studies in the diagnosis of thyroid nodules.	Many aspects of thyroid nodule evaluation and management remain controversial. Widespread application of ultrasonography has resulted in frequent discovery of incidental nodules in the general population which has created a management dilemma for physicians. In this paper we have introduced a novel approach for evaluation of solid nodules, using an index derived from ultrasonographic and cytologic studies. Briefly thyroid nodules were classified ultrasonographically into four grades, with increasing score numbers (1-4) as progression to malignantly suspicious lesions was present. Similarly, four grades of a cytologic classification of fine needle biopsy aspirates were introduced with scores of 1-6 (benign to malignant diagnosis). The sum of the ultrasonographic and cytologic scores were the basis of a diagnostic index: benign (2-4), doubtful (5), suspicious (6) and malignant (7-10). Sixty patients with an index equal or higher than 6 were submitted to thyroidectomy and the prevalence of thyroid cancer (n = 46) in the excised nodules was 76.6%. Most series report a 10% to 30% incidence of malignancy in excised nodules with suspicious diagnosis. We concluded that using an index derived from combined ultrasonographic and cytologic studies will result in a better patient selection for surgery.
Small thyroid carcinomas: biological characteristics, diagnosis and therapy]	Small thyroid carcinomas (< or = 1.5 cm), including microcarcinomas (< or = 1.0 cm) (n = 39), were found in 53 patients (41%) with a papillary (n = 130) and in 4 cases (4%) with a follicular (n = 110) carcinoma. The tumour was clinically manifested by palpability or by the presence of nodal metastases in 1/3 of patients. Concomitant diagnoses were colloid goitre (n = 24), cellular adenoma (n = 11), Graves' disease (n = 6), and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (n = 4). Nodal involvement, multifocal tumour, and extrathyroidal extent (pT4) were present in 9%, 19%, and 8% of cases respectively. Small follicular carcinomas were minimally invasive in all instances. According to the age-related prognostic TNM-classification, 52 patients (91%) were in the low risk category. 18% of the patients underwent uni- or bilateral partial lobectomy, 35% hemithyroidectomy, and 47% total thyroidectomy, according to the extent and nature of the concomitant benign disease, whereas hemi- or total thyroidectomy was performed in the patients with known cancer. Four of 5 patients with stage pT4 cancer and all patients with nodal involvement underwent total thyroidectomy with radioiodine (n = 8 [14%]). Postoperative morbidity was 0%. During the follow-up period of 1-17 (x = 5.5) years no tumour-related death and no serious recurrence was noted. One node recurrence was removed 1 year following treatment of a stage III pT1aN1b papillary carcinoma; the patient died 4 years later accidentally without residual disease. These results confirm that cases with a potentially favourable course can be defined and treated selectively by less radical measures. Small carcinomas (< or = 1.5 cm) belong to these favourable tumours with a cancer mortality rate of virtually 0%, and the aim of treatment is to prevent curable recurrences: node positivity is an important risk factor, and therefore radioiodine is reserved for carcinomas with nodal involvement and also for the occasional small pT4-tumour.
Neonatal hemochromatosis. Report of 3 autopsy cases]	Neonatal hemochromatosis is a disease that starts in utero, characterized by severe fibrosis or cirrhosis and siderosis of the liver and other organs without affecting the mononuclear fagocytic system. The most important clinical features are severe hepatic failure at birth and hypoglycemia. The diagnosis is made excluding other diseases more frequently seen in the neonatal period and with at least two of the clinicopathologic criteria delineated by Knisely.
Loss of several cell functions including okadaic acid-induced apoptosis after multiple passages in FRTL-5 cells.	In FRTL-5 cells, cultured over a period of more than 3 years, different properties of the cells have been observed to undergo spontaneous changes in the course of aging, i.e. after an increase in the number of passages. This consists mainly in alterations in their morphological phenotype and in some of their functional properties. The morphology of the cells displayed a progressive disruption of the monolayer organization with a loss of cell-cell contacts and a marked rounding-up of the cells. The uptake of iodide was not modified nor was the expression of thyroglobulin (Tg) mRNA as determined at various time intervals in the course of the cells culturing. Estimation of the proliferation by counting the frequency of [3H]thymidine labeled nuclei revealed an age-related decline in the sensitivity to TSH mitogenic action associated with a reciprocal increase in the insulin synergistic effect. Aged cells (+/- 40 passages) lost their apoptosis sensitivity to the phosphatase inhibitor, okadaic acid (OA) but not to cycloheximide (CHX) and/or actinomycin D (act. D) exposure. Altogether these observations favor the existence of a shift towards transformed properties with only partial loss of differentiated functions.
A rare case of pituitary hyperplasia with suprasellar extension due to primary myxoedema: case report.	The development of pituitary tumours as a consequence of primary target organ failure is rare. We report here a rare case of pituitary hyperplasia with suprasellar extension due to primary myxoedema. This case presentation suggested the importance of detailed endocrine investigation and repeated magnetic resonance imaging for the differential diagnosis of pituitary enlargement to avoid unnecessary surgery.
Implantation metastasis of head and neck cancer after fine needle aspiration biopsy.	One possible complication of the aspiration biopsy of malignant tumors is dissemination of tumor cells along the needle track. However, a search of the literature revealed few definite reports of implantation metastases of head and neck tumors after fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB). Here we report two cases of skin metastasis of head and neck cancer after FNAB, including a patient with papillary adenocarcinoma of the thyroid and one with adenoid cystic carcinoma of the submandibular gland. Surgical treatment prevented the spread of the tumor in both cases and there have been no evidence of recurrence to date. This report should alert head and neck surgeons to the possibility of implantation metastasis after FNAB.
Unifocal autonomy and carcinoma of the thyroid gland]	Two cases operated upon with the clinical diagnosis of unifocal autonomous functioning thyroid nodules (AFTN) are reported where the histological diagnosis revealed a well differentiated thyroid carcinoma (follicular, papillary) without metastasis. The pathogenesis of differentiated thyroid carcinomas in cases of AFTN may be coincident. Alternatively it may evolve from thyroid epithelial cells of the hot nodule, resulting in a "hot" well differentiated thyroid carcinoma. These cases show that under the clinical diagnosis of AFTN a differentiated thyroid carcinoma can be hidden occasionally.
Prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis and non-immune thyroid disease in multiple sclerosis.	Since multiple sclerosis (MS) and autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) are presumed to be of autoimmune origin the correlation of these two diseases is of special interest. The aim of this study was to determine whether there are differences in the prevalence of thyroid disease with special emphasis on AIT compared with MS and normal subjects and whether the presence of thyroid disease correlates with disability, disease course, age, and disease duration. 353 consecutive patients with clinically definite MS, without interferon-beta treatment and 308 patients with low back pain or headache were extensively examined for the presence of non-immune or autoimmune thyroid disease. We found a significantly higher prevalence of AIT in male MS patients (9.4 %) than in male controls (1.9 %; p = 0.03). The prevalence of AIT in female MS patients (8.7 %) did not differ from female controls (9.2 %). Hypothyroidism, caused by AIT in almost all cases, showed a tendency to be more severe and more often present in patients with MS. There was no association between relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive disease course of MS and the prevalence of AIT. MS patients with AIT were significantly older but did not differ in disease duration and expanded disability status scale (EDSS). Further studies are warranted, to see if there is a difference in sex-hormone levels between MS patients with and without AIT and healthy controls. Longitudinal studies comparing MS patients with or without AIT could show whether there is an influence of AIT on the disease course or progression.
Relation between clinical presentation and prognosis of patients with papillary thyroid microcarcinoma]	We aimed to analyze patients with papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTM) in order to establish the prognosis according to the differences observed between those diagnosed before surgery and those diagnosed postoperatively.
Evaluation of rat thyroid gland morphophysiological status after three months exposure to 50 Hz electromagnetic field.	Objective of our study was to use morphophysiological criteria in order to determine the sensitivity of male rat thyroid gland to an extremely low frequency electromagnetic field (ELF-EMF) influence and the ability of the gland to repair after period of exposure. Animals were exposed to 50Hz, 50-500 microT ELF-EMF for 3 months when a part of them (group I) were sacrificed, while the rest of animals were subjected to recovery evaluation of the gland and sacrificed after 1 (group II), 2 (group III) and 3 (group IV) weeks. Histological and stereological analyses were performed on paraffin and semifine thyroid gland sections. Serum T3 and T4 were also determined. Histological and stereological analyses showed that the volume density of follicular epithelium and thyroid activation index decreased, while the volume density of colloid and capillary network increased in group I, II and III. The values of all these parameters in group IV were similar to corresponding controls. Serum T3 and T4 concentrations were significantly lower in all exposed animals, except in group I. Results of this study demonstrate that after significant morphophysiological changes caused by ELF-EMF exposure thyroid gland recovered morphologically, but not physiologically, during the investigated repair period.
The thyrotropin receptor autoantigen in Graves disease is the culprit as well as the victim.	Graves disease, a common organ-specific autoimmune disease affecting humans, differs from all other autoimmune diseases in being associated with target organ hyperfunction rather than organ damage. Clinical thyrotoxicosis is directly caused by autoantibodies that activate the thyrotropin receptor (TSHR). The etiology of Graves disease is multifactorial, with nongenetic factors playing an important role. Of the latter, there is the intriguing possibility that the molecular structure of the target antigen contributes to the development of thyroid-stimulatory autoantibodies (TSAb's). Among the glycoprotein hormone receptors, only the TSHR undergoes intramolecular cleavage into disulfide-linked subunits with consequent shedding of some of the extracellular, autoantibody-binding A subunits. Functional autoantibodies do not arise to the noncleaving glycoprotein hormone receptors. Recently, TSAb's were found to preferentially recognize shed, rather than attached, A subunits. Here we use a new adenovirus-mediated animal model of Graves disease to show that goiter and hyperthyroidism occur to a much greater extent when the adenovirus expresses the free A subunit as opposed to a genetically modified TSHR that cleaves minimally into subunits. These data show that shed A subunits induce or amplify the immune response leading to hyperthyroidism and provide new insight into the etiology of Graves disease.
The role of FNA in the initial management of thyroid lesions: 7-year experience in a district general hospital.	Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology plays a major role in the diagnosis of the thyroid lesions in university hospitals and tertiary referral institutions. Our aim was to find out if this was possible in small district hospitals with limited resources. Over a 7-year period, from October 1994 to April 2002, 303 patients with thyroid swellings underwent FNA with an overall adequacy rate of 97.7%. FNAs were performed specifically by the pathologists, so that our inadequacy rate, 2.3% was far lower than 11-29% reported elsewhere. The FNA findings were compared with subsequent histology results in 67 cases. The diagnosis of benign and neoplastic lesions was predicted accurately by FNA in 93% and 94.7% of cases, respectively. The latter reached 100% if results of FNA in follicular neoplasms were excluded. Sensitivity and specificity were 85.6% and 97.6%, respectively, which is comparable with results from tertiary institutions. The commonest thyroid lesions in our hospital were nodular goitre (52.4%), followed by thyroiditis (17.6%) and neoplasia (13.9%). We conclude that, with the availability of appropriate personnel, FNA is feasible as the major modality in district general hospitals. FNA in follicular lesions remains challenging but could be overcome in part by recognizing the criteria to differentiate follicular variant of papillary carcinoma and other follicular proliferations. Aspiration, smearing, staining and interpretation should be left to pathologists or other well-trained personnel to ensure good quality and consistency.
Pretreatment with a single, low dose of recombinant human thyrotropin allows dose reduction of radioiodine therapy in patients with nodular goiter.	In patients with nodular goiter, radioiodine ((131)I) therapy results in a mean reduction in thyroid volume (TV) of approximately 40% after 1 yr. We have demonstrated that pretreatment with a single, low dose of recombinant human TSH (rhTSH) doubles 24-h radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) in these patients. We have now studied the safety and efficacy of therapy with a reduced dose of (131)I after pretreatment with rhTSH. Twenty-two patients with nodular goiter received (131)I therapy, 24 h after im administration of 0.01 (n = 12) or 0.03 (n = 10) mg rhTSH. In preceding diagnostic studies using tracer doses of (131)I, 24-h RAIU without and with rhTSH pretreatment (either 0.01 or 0.03 mg) were compared. Therapeutic doses of (131)I were adjusted to the rhTSH-induced increases in 24-h RAIU and were aimed at 100 micro Ci/g thyroid tissue retained at 24 h. Pretreatment with rhTSH allowed dose reduction of (131)I therapy by a factor of 1.9 +/- 0.5 in the 0.01-mg and by a factor of 2.4 +/- 0.4 in the 0.03-mg rhTSH group (P < 0.05, 0.01 vs. 0.03 mg rhTSH). Before and 1 yr after therapy, TV and the smallest cross-sectional area of the tracheal lumen were measured with magnetic resonance imaging. During the year of follow-up, serum TSH, free T(4) (FT(4)), T(3), and TSH receptor antibodies were measured at regular intervals. TV before therapy was 143 +/- 54 ml in the 0.01-mg group and 103 +/- 44 ml in the 0.03-mg rhTSH group. One year after treatment, TV reduction was 35 +/- 14% (0.01 mg rhTSH) and 41 +/- 12% (0.03 mg rhTSH). In both groups, smallest cross-sectional area of the tracheal lumen increased significantly. In the 0.01-mg rhTSH group, serum FT(4) rose, after (131)I treatment, from 15.8 +/- 2.8 to 23.2 +/- 4.4 pM. In the 0.03-mg rhTSH group, serum FT(4) rose from 15.5 +/- 2.5 to 23.5 +/- 5.1 pM. Individual peak FT(4) levels, reached between 1 and 28 d after (131)I treatment, were above the normal range in 12 patients. TSH receptor antibodies were negative in all patients before therapy and became positive in 4 patients. Hyperthyroidism developed in 3 of these 4 patients between 23 and 25 wk after therapy. In conclusion, in patients with nodular goiter pretreatment with a single, low dose of rhTSH allowed approximately 50-60% reduction of the therapeutic dose of radioiodine without compromising the efficacy of TV reduction.
Analysis of inconclusive fine-needle aspiration of thyroid follicular lesions.	To evaluate all inconclusive fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens from thyroid follicular lesions with subsequent histologic diagnosis at St John Hospital and Medical Center, Detroit, MI. The criterion for specimen adequacy used in our institution was also reexamined to determine whether it was too stringent. We reviewed 45 inconclusive FNAB samples. Only cases that underwent surgical intervention were considered. Specimen adequacy was determined by the presence of at least 8-10 tissue fragments of well-preserved follicular epithelium on at least two slides; each tissue fragment should have a minimum of 8-10 cells. Different cytologic characteristics-cellularity, cellular architecture, nuclear pleomorphism, inclusion/grooves, chromatin, Hürthle cell change, lymphocytes, macrophages, colloid, and multinucleated giant cells-were scored and compared with final surgical diagnosis. The surgical procedure performed was also analyzed. Review of these 45 surgical specimens found 28 (62.2%) multinodular goiters, 14 (31.1%) nodular hyperplasias, 2 (4.4%) follicular adenomas, and one (2.2%) with invasive follicular carcinoma. Forty-three (95.6%) of these cases were female and 2 (4.4%) were male. Cytologic review showed 2 acellular samples, 10 cases containing macrophages only, 10 aspirates with macrophages and an inadequate number of follicular cells, and 23 specimens with an inadequate number of follicular cells. Twenty-three patients underwent total thyroidectomy; 20, lobectomy; and 2, isthumusectomy. Almost 98% of the patients with inconclusive FNAB had benign lesions. This finding encouraged us to continue using our criteria for adequacy because of the importance of a negative report. Patients in our series, who underwent thyroidectomy after an inconclusive or nondiagnostic aspirate, had a malignancy rate of 2.2%, which was no worse than patients with a benign preoperative diagnosis. A balanced approach with careful follow-up for nondiagnostic cytology is prudent.
Fine needle aspiration in the management of benign thyroid cysts.	Resolution of cystic thyroid lesions after aspiration occurs in 8-45% of cases, the remainder require treatment for residual tumour or recurrent cysts. The aim of this study was to identify patient characteristics that predict cyst recurrence to enable these patients to undergo early surgery.
Fine-needle aspiration cytology of thyroid nodules: how useful is it?	Thyroid nodules are common and the principal method of diagnosis is fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC).
Concurrent adrenal pheochromocytoma and papillary adenocarcinoma of the thyroid in a 20-year-old man.	A 20-year-old man was admitted to Kyushu University Hospital with complaints of severe headache and episodic hypertension (200/100 mmHg). Ultrasonograms and computed tomographs revealed tumors in the left adrenal region and in the right lower lobe of the thyroid gland. Total thyroidectomy and left adrenalectomy were performed. The excised thyroid tumor and adrenal tumor were pathologically diagnosed as papillary adenocarcinoma and pheochromocytoma, respectively. A chromosome analysis revealed no karyotypic abnormality. Whereas the world literature records such occurrences in women, this is the first report of a simultaneous occurrence of pheochromocytoma and papillary adenocarcinoma of the thyroid in a young man.
Ki-ras mutational analysis in rat follicular-cell proliferative lesions of the thyroid gland induced by radioactive iodine and potassium perchlorate.	Although in both human and experimental pathology ras mutations have been related to the origin and progression of follicular-cell tumours, reports differ considerably with respect to the frequency of such mutations. The present paper reports, using direct sequencing, the incidence of Ki-ras mutations (codons 12 and 13) in follicular-cell carcinomas of the thyroid gland in Wistar rats induced by administration of radioactive iodine and potassium perchlorate. Direct sequencing revealed no mutations in the amplified gene segment of any of the 72 carcinoma samples studied. This absence of mutations agrees with some and is in sharp contrast with other previous reports in the literature, both for experimental animals and in studies of human thyroid follicular-cell carcinoma. Our results suggest that Ki-ras activation via mutations at codons 12 and 13 is neither a constant event nor an early event in the development of rat thyroid follicular-cell carcinoma.
Postoperative endocrine function in patients with surgically treated thyrotoxicosis.	Endocrine function after surgery for thyrotoxicosis is difficult to predict. The operative morbidity and long-term thyroid function of patients surgically treated for thyrotoxicosis is presented, and factors postulated to affect long-term function are correlated with outcome.
A comparison of Thinprep and conventional smears]	To analyze ThinPrep (TP) application by comparing TP slides with conventional smear (CS) slides in fine needle aspiration cytology.
Thyroid tuberculosis.	The aim of this article is to collect and to review reference data about thyroid tuberculosis from all-over the world and to analyze urgency and changeability of this problem since 19th century until now. Data show that there are cases of thyroid tuberculosis still occurring in many countries of the world, including highly developed countries. It turned out that the disease can manifest in various ways and that it does not have specific symptoms characteristic only to thyroid tuberculosis. The main method for establishing diagnosis is fine-needle aspiration with subsequent bacterioscopical, bacteriological or biological investigation. Still, for verification of diagnosis, ultrasonography, even computerized tomography and the newest serological diagnostic methods of tuberculosis may be necessary. In conclusion, thyroid tuberculosis should be differentiated from other diseases of thyroid: various types of thyroiditis, Graves disease and nodular goiter. It is particularly vital to distinguish thyroid tuberculosis from thyroid cancer, in attempt to avoid unnecessary thyroid surgery. While treating thyroid tuberculosis, there is a choice of thyroid surgery, antituberculous drugs and repeated puncture drainage procedures. Sometimes these methods can be combined.
Accuracy of three-dimensional ultrasound for thyroid volume measurement in children and adolescents.	The aim of this study was to estimate accuracy, intraobserver variability, and repeatability of thyroid volume measurement by ultrasound using conventional two-dimensional ellipsoid model (2D US) and manual planimetry of three-dimensional images (3D US). The sonographic images of 47 children with thyroid nodular pathology who were referred for thyroid surgery in Belarus were evaluated prospectively. Two-dimensional images were acquired using the ultrasound scanner with 7.5-MHz linear probe. Three-dimensional data sets were created using three-dimensional system, FreeScan. For each patient thyroid volume was measured three times using both two- and three-dimensional methods. Results of volume estimation were then compared to the volume of thyroid gland determined after surgery. Standardized difference between thyroid volume estimated by ultrasound and surgery (mean +/- standard deviation (SD), %) for 3D and 2D US methods was 1.8 +/- 5.2% and 3.2 +/- 15.3%, respectively. The 3D US has lower intraobserver variability (3.4%) and higher repeatability (96.5%) than 2D US with 14.4% variability and 84.8% repeatability (p < 0.001). In conclusion, three-dimensional sonography allows accurate measurement of thyroid volume with low intraobserver variability and high repeatability.
The radiotoxicity of 131I therapy of thyroid cancer: assessment by micronucleus assay of B lymphocytes.	We investigated cytologic radiation damage in thyroid cancer after (131)I therapy using micronucleus assay (MNA) of B lymphocytes exclusively, as opposed to our previous study in which MNA of all lymphocyte subsets was used.
Pulmonary Langerhans cell granulomatosis with extrapulmonary involvement.	Pulmonary Langerhans cell granulomatosis is defined as an abnormal Langerhans cells infiltration in the lungs. Multifocal involvement is unusual, however. We report 3 cases of pulmonary Langerhans cell granulomatosis combined with either rib, thyroid or hypothalamus involvement.
Pattern of thyroid malignancy at a University Hospital in Western Saudi Arabia.	The aim is to study the incidence of thyroid cancer in surgically treated nodular thyroid disease, clinicopathological characteristics and treatment results.
Hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto thyroiditis post struma ovarii excision.	Struma ovarii is a rare ovarian teratoma that may produce hyperthyroidism. The association with Hashimoto thyroiditis HT, however is rare and has been reported in only one case. We report a case of HT following the resection of struma ovarii tumor, after which the patient became frankly, hypothyroid with elevated thyroid stimulating hormone and low thyroxin levels. Her thyroid peroxidase antibodies were positive. She improved after initiation of levothyroxine replacement therapy. We believe her euthyroid status preoperatively was due to thyroid hormone secretion by struma ovarii itself.
The Na+/I- symporter mediates iodide uptake in breast cancer metastases and can be selectively down-regulated in the thyroid.	The Na(+)/I(-) symporter (NIS) is a key plasma membrane protein that mediates active iodide (I(-)) transport in the thyroid, lactating breast, and other tissues. Functional NIS expression in thyroid cancer accounts for the longstanding success of radioactive iodide ((131)I) ablation of metastases after thyroidectomy. Breast cancer is the only other cancer demonstrating endogenous functional NIS expression. Until now, NIS activity in breast cancer metastases (BCM) was unproven.
Changing trends in thyroid practice: understanding nodular thyroid disease.	To describe changes that have occurred between 1952 and 2002 in the evaluation and management of nodular thyroid disease.
Histopathological changes at the surgical site in experimental animals following partial cricoid resection and thyrotracheal anastomosis]	To study in an animal model the local healing process after partial cricoid resection with thyrotracheal anastomosis.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B syndrome due to codon 918 mutation: clinical manifestation and course in early and late onset disease.	More than 50% of patients with typical MEN-2B have a de novo M918T germline mutation of the RET protooncogene. However, even in typical MEN-2B, extrathyroidal manifestations of MEN-2B can be found to be differently expressed. We analyzed the clinical manifestation and course in 21 patients harboring a de novo RET M918T mutation. Mean age at MEN-2B diagnosis was 14.2 years (range: 1-31 years). All patients had medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). At the time of syndrome diagnosis, oral manifestations (bumpy lips, ganglioneuroma), ocular manifestations (corneal fibers, conjunctivitis sicca), intestinal dysfunctions, musculoskeletal manifestations, and pheochromocytoma were found in 86%, 90%, 74%, 79%, and 19% of the patients, respectively. At the time of follow-up examination, the symptoms were found at higher frequency. Severe intestinal manifestation was predominantly found in patients with prepubertal onset (< or = 12 years) of MTC (n = 4/10) compared with patients with late onset (> 12 years) of MTC (n = 0/11) (40% versus 0%; p = 0.019). Although biochemical cure was found only in four patients with early onset of MTC, the long-term prognosis for patients with early onset of MTC was poorer than for patients presenting with late onset of MTC (p = 0.005). During mean follow-up of 55.8 months (range: 3-161 months), seven patients (33%) died from MTC. In conclusion, whereas most typical MEN-2B symptoms were found to be age-related, severe intestinal manifestation was found to be predominantly expressed in patients with early onset of MTC. Furthermore, in patients with early onset of MTC who could not be biochemically cured, the long-term prognosis was found to be worse than that of non-cured patients with late onset of MTC, suggesting an additional pathological process in the younger subgroup reinforcing the very high transforming in vitro activity of the M918T RET mutation.
Clonal B cell populations in a minority of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is a risk factor for thyroid lymphoma, and clonal B cell populations in HT support this link. The literature on B cell clonality in HT is controversial.
Functional and morphological characterization of rat thyroid gland at remote periods following single high and low dose radiation exposure]	A study of the morphological structure and functional activity of the rat thyroid gland was carried out after 22 months following a single exposure to external radiation. The 3-month-old animals were irradiated with doses of 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 5.0 Gy. Blood was assayed for thyroxin (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) levels, while liver tissue--for NADP-MDH activity and thyroid tissue--for thyroperoxidase activity. The thyroid was studied histologically, morphometrically and by electron microscope. The decreased T4 concentrations 2.59-fold in the 5.0 Gy group, the increased T3/T4 in the 2.0 and 0.25 Gy groups, the reduced diameter of cellular nuclei and follicles, the flat follicular epithelium and diminished number of thyrocyte ultrastructures indicate thyroid hypofunction in the irradiated animals. The morphological changes are characterized by enhanced diffuse and focal sclerotic changes in thyroid, most pronounced at high irradiation doses (1.0-5.0 Gy), whereas the hemosiderosis foci suggest that the structural changes are consequences of radiation-induced destructive injuries in the gland parenchyma. Two of the thyroids (0.5 Gy) demonstrate foci with pronounced lymphoid infiltration, while follicular carcinomas were detected in 4 thyroids (2.0 Gy), and in one thyroid (0.5 Gy) in one thyroid (5.0 Gy). The remote effects of radiation were dose-dependent destructive, sclerotic and atrophic processes, decreased functional activity, stimulation of development of autoimmune aggression and carcinogenesis in thyroid.
Combined parathyroid adenoma and an occult papillary carcinoma.	Although the pathological association of thyroid and parathyroid disease is common, the association of both parathyroid adenoma and thyroid cancer is rare. We report here a case of a 45-year-old Saudi woman who was diagnosed to have primary hyperparathyroidism due to a single parathyroid adenoma as confirmed biochemically and radiologically. At operation, the adenoma was found to be an intrathyroid and therefore a thyroid lobectomy was performed. Histology of the excised lobe revealed in addition to the intrathyroid parathyroid adenoma a concurrent occult thyroid papillary carcinoma. This interesting association is discussed based on a literature review.
Role of intraoperative frozen section in the management of thyroid nodules.	The role of intraoperative frozen section in the management of thyroid nodules is controversial. Its potential benefit is to facilitate one-stage total thyroidectomy. Most literature on this topic originates from overseas tertiary referral centres with a high percentage of cancer cases and a fully resourced frozen section service. The aim of the present study was to review all patients undergoing frozen section at a typical general surgical department in New Zealand (North Shore Hospital, Auckland) to see how often frozen section altered surgical strategy.
Morphologic spectrum of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid: role of cytology in identifying the variants.	To evaluate the efficacy of fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) in the diagnosis of morphologic variants of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid (PCT) and to determine the reasons for misdiagnosis in discrepant cases on cytology.
Fine-needle aspiration of an unusual case of poorly differentiated insular carcinoma of the thyroid.	Poorly differentiated insular carcinoma of the thyroid is a rare thyroid malignancy that is intermediary in biological behavior between well-differentiated and undifferentiated thyroid carcinoma. We used fine-needle aspiration (FNA) to diagnose a poorly differentiated insular carcinoma with unusual cytological features in a 53-yr-old woman with a history of goiter and hypothyroidism, who presented with a massively enlarged thyroid gland and a large liver metastasis. The hypercellular aspirates were comprised predominantly of individually dispersed tumor cells. The tumor cells were small, monotonous, round to oval, and often plasmacytoid with eccentric hyperchromatic nuclei and occasional binucleation; finely granular, ill-defined cytoplasm; and smooth nuclear contours, with hyperchromasia, and small to inconspicuous nucleoli. There were no identifiable microfollicles, necrosis, and mitotic figures. The differential diagnosis included poorly differentiated insular carcinoma, medullary carcinoma of the thyroid, and low-grade lymphoma. Immunocytochemical staining for thyroglobulin, calcitonin, and CD45 yielded negative findings. The insular pattern and scattered microfollicles were appreciated only focally in the specimen from the total thyroidectomy, which also showed other histological patterns including solid, trabecular, and papillary forms. In addition to small, uniform cells, Hurthloid, columnar, and clear cells were focally noted. Thyroglobulin immunoreactivity was recognized only in areas with well-formed follicles. In view of the aggressive nature of insular carcinoma, preoperative recognition is important in planning appropriate therapy. Familiarity with the cytomorphological features, a high index of suspicion, and consideration of appropriate differential diagnoses can greatly aid in reaching a definitive preoperative diagnosis. The limitations of FNA in the sampling of a large tumor with heterogeneous patterns should be kept in mind when interpreting the cytomorphological and immunocytochemical results.
Thyroid surgery in Rogaland]	Thyroid surgery is performed at both hospitals in Rogaland county. In this retrospective study we compare clinical features, including preoperative diagnostics, type of surgery, and recorded postoperative complications.
Characterization of accelerated iron-ion-induced damage in gap junction-competent and -incompetent thyroid follicular cells.	Early- and late-passage cultures of Fischer rat thyroid cells differ in their growth properties and gap junction competency. Previous studies comparing early- and late-passage cultures exposed to gamma rays and proton beams revealed that differences in growth rate did not influence their responses; however, the presence of connexin 32 gap junctions conferred resistance to gamma radiation. To further assess differences in radiation quality, suspension cultures of early- and late-passage cells were exposed to accelerated iron ions, and their comparative biological responses were measured. The iron-ion-irradiated cells displayed sustained levels of incorporated dUTP, reflecting persistent DNA damage. These results were supported by the frequency of chromosomal damage measured by micronucleus formation. Iron-ion irradiation induced micronuclei at a rate of eight per gray per 100 binucleated cells scored in early-passage cells and nine per gray per 100 binucleated cells scored in late-passage cells. Relative to photons, the calculated radiobiological effectiveness for frequency of micronuclei was 5.7 and 6.4 for the early- and late-passage cultures, respectively (P > 0.05). Levels of apoptosis fluctuated as a function of dose, and modest increases above basal levels persisted throughout the 48-h period. The comparison of retained follicular structures revealed differences in the alpha components of the linear-quadratic dose-response curves (0.60 Gy(-1) for early-passage and 0.71 Gy(-1) for late-passage cultures, P < 0.014). Cell cycle phase redistribution resulted in a G2 arrest (P < 0.001) for both early- and late-passage cultures. In conclusion, the response of thyroid follicular cells to high-LET radiation was not influenced by the presence of gap junctions or the proliferative status of the target cells.
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy findings suspicious for papillary thyroid carcinoma: a review of cytopathological criteria.	The objective was to evaluate the usefulness of standard suspect cytological features on fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) in predicting papillary thyroid carcinoma.
Reversible primary hypothyroidism and elevated serum iodine level in patients with renal dysfunction.	Recovery of thyroid function in patients with both thyroid and renal dysfunction was studied. Among 245 patients with primary hypothyroidism (serum TSH greater than 10 mU/l), 36 had mild to severe renal dysfunction (serum urea nitrogen greater than 7.1 mmol/l and creatinine greater than 106 mumol/l). Of these 36 patients, recovery of the thyroid function after iodine restriction was observed in 30 (83%), in whom an elevated serum non-hormonal iodine level (median 236, range 67-15,591 micrograms/l, N = 19) and a high thyroidal radioactive iodine uptake (51.5 +/- 29.3% at 24 h, N = 26) were observed. The perchlorate discharge test was positive in 7 of 13 patients examined, suggesting an iodide organification defect rather than an atrophic or destructive change in the thyroid. Antithyroid antibodies were negative in 22 patients (73%) and an almost normal thyroid gland or colloid goitre was confirmed histologically in 8 of them. After a 13.2 mg potassium iodide loading test, 24 h urinary excretion of iodine was about 60% in normal controls, but only 10% in a different group of six euthyroid patients with renal dysfunction. These findings suggest that impaired renal handling of iodine rather than autoimmune mechanism may have a significant role in the pathogenesis of reversible hypothyroidism found in patients with renal dysfunction, probably through a prolonged Wolff-Chaikoff effect.
Hypoplastic thyroid, growth hormone deficiency, corneal opacities, cataract and hyperkeratotic skin disease: a possible new ichthyosis syndrome associated with endocrinopathies.	A 56 year old man presented with ichthyosis vulgaris since early childhood, clinically characterised by fine scaling of the trunk and hyperkeratotic scales on the exterior surfaces of the upper and lower extremities. The patient also showed hypothyroidism due to hypoplastic thyroid, cataract, hypercholesterinemia with concommitant arcus cornealis and biliary concrements. Renal lithiasis caused by calcio-oxalate was additionally present. Endocrinological screening revealed growth hormone deficiency in the 1.55 m tall man-(secondary) osteoporosis was observed. The clinical symptomatology indicates that this case cannot be considered as a subtype of the inherited ichthyosis group, but suggests a new syndrome as a separate nosologic entity.
Quantitative changes in thyroid lymphoid cells as a marker of malignancy.	To investigate the possibility of using morphometric changes in lymphoid cells in thyroid tissue as a marker of malignant tumors.
Ewing's sarcoma of the cavernous sinus: case report.	The Ewing's sarcoma (ES) family of tumors is a relatively rare entity, presenting most commonly in children. While the most common sites for this group of tumors are the trunk and the extremities, this case is unique in that we describe a long-term follow-up with an ES presenting in the cavernous sinus.
Importance of the intraoperative identification of the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve during thyroidectomy: electromyographic evaluation.	To establish the frequency and degree of postthyroidectomy injury of the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve (EBSLN) by means of electromyography and to assess whether intraoperative identification of the nerve and the presence of malignancy influence morbidity.
Pathology and immunohistochemistry of thyroid in severe acute respiratory syndrome]	To study the pathological characteristics of thyroid gland and the changes on hormone content of thyroid cells in severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) patients.
Reoperative thyroid surgery.	Patients with thyroid cancer are sometimes denied repeat thyroid operations for fear of an increased risk of complications.
Contribution of fine needle aspiration cytology to diagnosis and management of thyroid disease.	To determine the role of fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) in the diagnosis and management of thyroid disease.
Annexin-1 downregulation in thyroid cancer correlates to the degree of tumor differentiation.	We investigated the expression of annexin-1 (ANXA1) in thyroid carcinoma cell lines and in thyroid cancers with a different degree of differentiation. The highest level of ANXA1 expression examined by Western blotting was detected in the papillary carcinoma cells (NPA) and in the follicular cells (WRO). On the other hand, the most undifferentiated thyroid carcinoma cells (ARO and FRO) presented the lowest level of ANXA1 expression. In surgical tissue specimens from 32 patients with thyroid cancers, we found high immunoreactivity for ANXA1 in papillary (PTC) and follicular (FTC) thyroid cancers while in undifferentiated thyroid cancers (UTC) the expression of the protein was barely detectable. Control thyroid tissue resulted positive for ANXA1. In summary, 70% of UTC examined weakly expressed ANXA1, whereas 65% of PTC or FTC specimens tested showed high expression of the protein. Thus ANXA1 expression may correlate with the tumorigenesis suggesting that the protein may represent an effective differentiation marker in thyroid cancer.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia.	The multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndromes are well-defined disorders characterized by familial inheritance of specific endocrine tumors. The parathyroid, endocrine, pancreas, and pituitary tumors of MEN-1 are described by frequency and symptomatology. The effectiveness of surgery, symptomatic therapy, and panendocrine suppression by the somatostatin congener octreotide are discussed. Evidence indicates that the MEN-1 gene is located on chromosome 11 and tightly linked markers can help identify family members at risk for inheriting the gene. In MEN-2, the effectiveness of biochemical screening for thyroidal C-cell neoplasms and early thyroidectomy are described. New imaging techniques have been developed to identify medullary thyroid carcinoma and pheochromocytoma in MEN-2. Genetic analysis has identified markers on chromosome 10 closely linked to the MEN-2a gene, allowing better identification of family members likely to develop the syndrome.
Solitary fibrous tumor of the thyroid gland: report of two cases and review of the literature.	Presented herein are the first two Japanese cases of solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) of the thyroid gland. The patients were 64- and 41-year-old men, who underwent hemithyroidectomy for thyroid tumors. Histopathologically, the tumors were well circumscribed, and were composed of spindle cells, collagen bundles and entrapped thyroid follicles. Spindle cells and collagen bundles were mostly in a patternless arrangement with an admixture of hypo- and hypercellular areas. Proliferating spindle cells were bland, slender, and occasionally wavy without any atypia and increased mitotic figures. Immunohistochemically, they were strongly positive for CD34, CD99, and bcl-2, but negative for epithelial membrane antigen, keratin, thyroglobulin, calcitonin, thyroid transcription factor-1, alpha-smooth muscle actin, desmin, S-100 protein and CD117. Based on these findings, the two patients were diagnosed as having thyroid SFT. Neither local recurrence nor metastasis has been observed in 5 years in patient 1 or in 4 years in patient 2. Thyroid SFT is extremely rare, and only 20 cases have been reported in the English-language literature including hemangiopericytoma. Although recurrence or metastasis has not been described in any reported cases, the clinical behavior of SFT is still undetermined, therefore long-term follow up seems necessary at present.
Utility of millipore filter and cell block in thyroid needle aspirates: which method is superior?	The main goal of thyroid fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is to distinguish nodules that require surgery from those that do not, thereby decreasing the number of diagnostic thyroidectomies. Several cytologic preparations are used to reach a definitive diagnosis, including smears using conventional stains, such as Diff-Quik (DQ) and Papanicolaou (Pap), millipore filters (MF), and cell blocks (CB). This study is undertaken to study the efficacy and adequacy to reach a definitive diagnosis of two cytologic preparations, MF and CB, in thyroid aspirates. All thyroid needle aspirates performed at Emory University Hospitals from January 2003 to April 2005 that had both MF and CB preparations for microscopic evaluation were studied. Conventional stains (DQ and Pap) were prepared. An initial aliquot of the specimen was divided for MF, and the remaining specimen submitted for CB preparation. All MF and CB slides were reviewed blindly. Adequacy criteria were assessed as 6-8 groups of follicular cells, with each containing 10 or more cells. Patient demographics, cytologic diagnoses, and follow-up information were retrieved. A total of 218 cases met our criteria; 21 of these cases were excluded due to lack of available diagnostic slides. Thus, a total of 197 cases were studied. Approximately two-third of the cases (57.9%) were diagnosed on DQ- and Pap-stained smears only, in which both CB and MF were inadequate. About 4.6% of the cases were diagnostic on both CB and MF; 36.0% on MF only, and 1.5% on CB preparation only. In more than half the cases (57.9%), diagnosis of thyroid FNA was rendered only on conventional stained smears. MF smears appeared to be superior for diagnostic yield (40.6%) than CB (6.1%), which is dependent on specimen cellularity. Therefore, MF rather than CB should be added to conventional stained smears (DQ and Pap) to supplement the diagnostic yield, especially in specimens of low cellularity.
Dual ectopic thyroid: case series and review of the literature.	Ectopic thyroid tissue is an uncommon congenital aberration. It is further unusual for ectopic thyroid to be present at 2 different sites simultaneously. Only 19 cases of dual ectopic thyroid have been reported in the English literature. Most of the patients were adolescents and presented with anterior neck swelling with or without altered metabolic status. Lingual/sublingual thyroid was the most common ectopic location. Subhyoid was the most common site of a second ectopic thyroid in these patients. The thyroid scan has been used successfully to diagnose ectopic thyroid tissue. We report 4 such cases in which ectopic thyroid tissue was simultaneously present at 2 different locations using thyroid scanning. The literature of already reported cases is reviewed in detail.
Needle track dissemination of follicular thyroid carcinoma following fine-needle aspiration biopsy: report of a case.	Few reports have been concerned with the risk of needle track dissemination of tumor cells following fine-needle aspiration biopsy, especially for follicular thyroid nodules. A 61-year-old woman who underwent fine-needle aspiration biopsy and surgery 5 years previously for follicular thyroid adenoma presented with nodules that had developed in the sternocleidomastoid and omohyoid muscles of the anterior neck. These nodules were located along a line from the skin to the thyroid that coincided with the needle track of the previous biopsy. Following surgical resection, histological diagnosis determined the nodules to be follicular carcinoma. The clinical course and linear arrangement of the lesions were highly suggestive of needle track dissemination of tumor cells following fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Although fine-needle aspiration biopsy is a useful tool for the diagnosis of thyroid nodules, it is important to consider the risk of tumor cell dissemination.
The significance of FDG uptake in bilateral thyroid glands.	To evaluate the significance of bilateral fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in the thyroid glands.
Induction of stimulating thyrotropin receptor antibodies after radioiodine therapy for toxic multinodular goitre and Graves' disease measured with a novel bioassay.	Radioactive iodine therapy (RaI) in toxic multinodular goitre (TMNG) has been associated with the occurrence of Graves'-like hyperthyroidism. It has been postulated that pre-existing autoimmunity may contribute to this phenomenon.
Combined clinical, thyroid ultrasound and cytological features help to predict thyroid malignancy in follicular and Hupsilonrthle cell thyroid lesions: results from a series of 505 consecutive patients.	The cytological patterns of follicular and Hupsilonrthle cell nodules are included among the indeterminate results of fine-needle aspiration cytology, because distinction between benign and malignant lesion can only be made on histological criteria. The diagnostic value of atypia at cytology, clinical parameters and echographic patterns were examined to establish the risk of malignancy in 505 patients with follicular and Hupsilonrthle cell thyroid nodules at cytology.
US diagnosis of cervical recurrence in patients operated on thyroid cancer: sonographic features and clinical significance.	To describe the sonographic features of cervical recurrence in patient with thyroid cancer and review clinical significance.
Levothyroxine in euthyroid autoimmune thyroiditis and type 1 diabetes: a randomized, controlled trial.	Patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) have an increased risk of autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT).
Malignant struma ovarii: false positive PET image for suspected metastasis due to sarcoidosis]	Struma ovarii is an ovarian teratoma mainly composed of thyroid tissue, which can become malignant with possible peritoneal dissemination or even distant metastases. Therapeutic management follows protocols used for thyroid cancer. We report the first use of (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) in the follow-up of malignant struma ovarii with persistently elevated serum thyroglobulin level and negative diagnostic iodine 131 whole body scan after thyroidectomy and four courses of 131 iodine. Hilar and mediastinal lymph node uptake was detected but histological verification concluded that there was a false-positive localization corresponding to sarcoidosis lesions without malignant aspect.
Sir Victor Horsley (1857-1916) and the birth of English neurosurgery.	Modern surgery developed in the second half of the 19th century, at the end of which neurosurgery was established as a profitable region of operative intervention. In the British Isles, the first exponent was Sir William Macewen (1848-1924) in Glasgow. But neuroscience had advanced in London due to the excellence of the neurologists in the several hospitals there. Foremost among English neurosurgeons was Victor Horsley whose career had a worldwide influence on the speciality. Initially, operations were carried out for cranial trauma, the removal of displaced bone or blood clot, and the drainage of abscesses arising from infection of the middle ears and air sinuses. The diagnosis of brain and spinal tumours by neurologists encouraged removal by surgeons, of which Horsley was among the earliest. Horsley performed many operations on animals, experiments opposed by the anti-vivisectionists whose campaigns Horsley countered. Horsley had many other interests, some of which displeased the establishment, and in World War I his experience in neurosurgery was not used. He served as a general surgeon, visiting Egypt, India and Mesopotamia where, in Amara, he died from hyperpyrexia complicating bacillary dysentery.
Ectopic intrathyroidal nonfunctioning parathyroid cyst.	To describe a rare case of ectopic intrathyroidal parathyroid cyst (PC) in a 29-year-old woman who had been referred to us because of a multinodular goiter.
Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis in a cynomolgus macaque (Macaca fascicularis).	Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis characterized by multifocal follicular lymphoid cell infiltrates with germinal centers, thyroid acinar atrophy and pituitary cell hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the adenohypophysis was detected in a vehicle control, 4-year-old female Cynomolgus macaque in a routine toxicology study. Lymphoid cells of germinal centers were positive for the B-cell marker CD20 by immunohistochemistry (IHC), while remaining lymphocytes were positive for the T-cell marker CD3. Hypertrophied/hyperplastic pituitary cells were positive for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) by IHC, consistent with an adaptive response due to removal of hormonal negative feedback from the diseased thyroid gland. Features of this case are similar to chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis in humans, an autoimmune disorder also known as Hashimoto's disease. Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis with compensatory pituitary changes may occur spontaneously in young, clinically normal cynomolgus macaques and its presence in drug treated animals should be interpreted with caution.
The analgesic efficacy of lidocaine/prilocaine (EMLA) cream during fine-needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid nodules.	Pain is one of the few drawbacks of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) in patients with nodular thyroid disease (NTD). Lidocaine/prilocaine cream, an eutectic mixture of local anaesthetics (EMLA), is a frequently used topical anaesthetic. Despite its well-documented efficacy for the relief of pain associated with other cutaneous procedures that involve needle insertion, the analgesic role of EMLA has not been previously reported in patients with NTD who are undergoing FNAB. The aim of this study was to determine the analgesic efficacy of EMLA for FNAB-associated pain in patients with NTD.
Absence of RET gene point mutations in sporadic thyroid C-cell hyperplasia.	Progression from C-cell hyperplasia (CCH) to medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) has been demonstrated to date only in familial forms, whereas in nonfamilial MTC, such hypothesis is suggested by the rare concurrence of both lesions, although no epidemiological and molecular data are available to prove or disprove this event. Therefore, the clinical management of patients with sporadic CCH is controversial. To evaluate the malignant potential of sporadic CCHs, pure laser-microdissected C-cell populations of 24 CCH cases, either reactive or associated with nonfamilial MTC, were analyzed for MTC-associated protein neural cell adhesion molecule expression and RET point mutations in exons 10, 11, 15, and 16, by using immunohistochemistry and polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism/heteroduplex electrophoresis/direct sequencing, respectively. No RET mutations were found in any of the 24 CCH cases, whereas M918T mutation was detected in three concomitant MTCs. Neural cell adhesion molecule was immunoreactive in the majority of CCH associated with MTC even in the absence of morphological atypia, but not in reactive forms. The absence of RET alterations in all cases of CCH examined supports the hypothesis that the development of MTC is independent of pre-existing CCH in the nonfamilial setting; thus, sporadic CCH should not be considered a risk factor for nonfamilial MTC.
Evaluation of the reliality of an oncotropic drug in diagnostics of the retrosternal lesions]	Aim of this research is the evaluation of an oncotropic drug in diagnostics of substernal goiter. We used the SESTA-MIBI in 26 patients with cervico-mediastinal goiter and evaluated the pre and intra operating data with the histopathological specimen. The radiodrug has noticed profit in the differential from neoplastic and colloidal tissue, even if in a few cases it has also demostrated affinity for the benign adenomas. When the fine aspirated needle biopsy has turned out inadwisable or not setting, the MIBI methodical has been of special help. The extent of the use of this radiodrug also to parathyroid and cardiac pathology has made the economical costs cheaper and promoted the routine use of the methodology.
Graves' disease and papillary thyroid cancer--coincidence or association?]	A 41-year-old woman presented with hyperhydrosis, tremor, restlessness, sleeplessness and diarrhea. She had a tachycardia and later she developed soreness of her conjunctives. A tender goitre could be palpated.
A case of primary malignant lymphoma of thyroid in young man]	The aim of this study is to present a case of a 36-year old male with a rare thyroid malignancy--a primary thyroid lymphoma. The patient was admitted to the Department of Endocrinology due to a rapidly enlarging left-sided tumor of the neck and hoarseness lasting for 2 weeks. The only abnormality found on biochemical testing was a slightly elevated titre of anti-TPO antibodies. On X-ray examination, both a compression and deviation of the trachea was found. Ultrasound examination of the neck revealed a left-sided thyroid lesion and fine needle aspiration (FNA) was performed under ultrasound guidance. A monotonous population of mid-size lymphoid cells was found with negative immunocytochemistry for thyroglobuline and CD 68. After hematological and pathological evaluation the FNA report was considered as non-diagnostic. Taking into consideration the presence of rapidly occurring compressive symptoms caused by a tumor of unknown cytological origin, the patient was referred to urgent thyroid surgery. Pathological report of postoperative specimen allowed for the final diagnosis of a malignant lymphoma originating from non-Hodgkin B cells of the thyroid gland; diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLCL) according to WHO classification. L-thyroxin substitution therapy, chemo- and radiotherapy were used after the operation. The described case of a very rare type of primary thyroid malignancy illustrates difficulties which can be encountered in diagnostic approach and therapeutic decision making in patients with rapidly enlarging thyroid tumors.
Intrathyroidal parathyroid carcinoma as cause of hypercalcemia and pitfall of localization techniques: clinical and biologic features.	To describe an unusual case of intrathyroidal parathyroid carcinoma (PC), which was retrospectively diagnosed in a woman who underwent surgical treatment of a recurrent nodular goiter.
Atypical thyroid gland adenoma. Experiences during 12 years struma surgery]	In a period of 12 years atypical adenomas were found in 82 cases and thyroid carcinomas were diagnosed in 93 patients in the main group of 2176 patients undergoing a thyroid resection. Mean age was 46.5 years for atypical adenomas and 48 years for carcinomas. In 76.8% of the cases with atypical adenomas the postoperative course and long term results were followed up. None of these patients developed a recurrence or malignancy. 93.3% of the patients were treated with Levothyroxin for prevention. Hyperthyroidism did not occur pre- or postoperatively.
Metastatic cervical carcinoma to the thyroid gland: a case report and review of the literature.	Although metastases within the thyroid gland are rare, they are not as infrequent as generally believed. Asymptomatic breast, lung, and renal cell carcinomas may metastasize to the thyroid. When they become symptomatic, diagnosis relies upon fine needle aspiration cytology. We report the case of a squamous cell cervical cancer that presented metastatic lesions to the thyroid gland four years after the initial diagnosis. The procedures used to confirm the diagnosis, stage, and subsequently manage the patient are described. We present both a review of the necessary clinical investigation and the therapeutic options open to these patients. We conclude that patients who present swelling or palpable nodules in the thyroid side and have a history of a previous malignancy must be considered for metastatic disease.
Parathyroiditis in the non-obese diabetic mouse--a new finding.	Autoimmune reactions to parathyroid cells have been observed in human autoimmune polyendocrinopathy, but such findings have not been described in animal models of polyendocrine autoimmunity. We report here three cases of lymphocytic infiltrations in 12 parathyroid glands identified in a total of 18 thyroid glands studied in the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse. The majority of parathyroid-infiltrating lymphocytes possessed the helper/inducer phenotype as defined by the L3T4 monoclonal antibody. Parathyroiditis was accompanied by lymphocytic thyroiditis only on one occasion, whereas in other cases of thyroiditis, lymphocytic infiltration of the parathyroid was undetectable. We conclude that parathyroiditis in the NOD mouse is part of the wide spectrum of autoimmunity observed in this animal model of diabetes.
Ultrasound-guided biopsy of the thyroid: a comparison of technique with respect to diagnostic accuracy.	Ultrasound-guided sampling of the thyroid represents a standard diagnostic procedure in the evaluation of thyroid nodules. The two techniques typically used are fine-needle aspiration and fine-needle capillary biopsy. Each has been used with success in various body sites. Recently, a comparison of these two techniques showed no significant difference with regard to specimen adequacy. In this study, the type of technique was correlated with diagnostic accuracy. For each technique, the preoperative cytology diagnosis was compared with the surgical pathology diagnosis in 46 resected thyroid nodules. No false-positive diagnoses were identified. No significant difference in diagnostic accuracy was found on comparison of the two techniques. Therefore, either technique may be used according to the operator's preference.
Cytologic features of mixed papillary carcinoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma of the thyroid gland.	We report a case of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma of the thyroid gland. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first such case to be reported in the cytology literature. An 81-year-old male with known CLL presented for routine physical examination and was found to have a left-sided thyroid nodule. Thyroid ultrasound showed a calcified nodule. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) was performed and revealed PTC and an atypical lymphoid infiltrate that was suspicious for lymphoma. A partial thyroidectomy was performed and confirmed PTC with concurrent gland involvement by chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the thyroid gland showing marked ciliation suggestive of its pathogenesis.	Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the thyroid gland is a rare tumor first described by Rhatigan et al. in 1977. Its pathogenesis is still controversial. With regard to its most likely origin, some authors have suggested that it arises directly from follicular epithelium whereas others have proposed that it arises from ultimobranchial body (diverticulum from the fourth pharyngeal pouch) remnants, also known as solid cell nests (SCN). Herein is reported a unique case of thyroid mucoepidermoid carcinoma. The patient, a 67-year-old man, presented with a non-tender thyroid mass and vocal cord fixation. The tumor was poorly defined, necessitating subtotal thyroidectomy with composite resection of the adjacent structures. Pathologically, the tumor cells had characteristics of mucoepidermoid carcinoma, along with layers of columnar cells showing marked ciliation resembling respiratory-type epithelium, suggesting that this rare tumor had originated from SCN. p63 immunopositivity in the tumor provided additional evidence for the pathogenesis.
Drainage in thyroid surgery--prospective randomized study]	During the period of 2003-2004 years 100 consecutive thyroid surgeries was done in the clinic. Despite of clinical diagnosis or type of surgery they were separated into two groups. The first one (43) patients with post operative drainage, and the second one (57) with no drains. Patients with neck dissections were excluded from the study. There were no hematoma or seroma in patients without drains. In the other group two of them were reoperated because of drain insertion into the operative wound in post op. The difference in mean hospital stay for the two groups of patients is not statistically significant.
Thyroid epithelial cell proliferation in xenotransplanted human toxic nodular goitre is increased by Graves' IgG.	Human toxic nodular goitre tissue was xenotransplanted to athymic mice. Transplant function was analysed as 18-h thyroid transplant uptake of iodide-125 at day 21 and again at 10 weeks after transplantation. Graves' IgG or IgG from healthy donors was given intraperitoneally daily day 22-35. Epithelial cell proliferation in thyroid tissue transplants from human toxic nodular goitre and from normal thyroid glands was analysed by continuous [3H]thymidine administration for 4 days between day 21 and 24 and for 12 days between day 21 and 33 in separate series given daily injections of Graves' IgG or normal IgG during the same period. After administration of Graves' IgG, the 18-h iodide-125 uptake by the toxic nodular tissue transplants was 7 times higher at 10 weeks than at 3 weeks. Control IgG gave a corresponding 1.6-fold increase. The fraction of labelled cells after [3H]thymidine incorporation was 18 and 56% in toxic nodular goitre transplants and 4 and 48% in normal thyroid tissue transplants after daily Graves' IgG administration for 4 and 12 days, respectively, but only 1.3% in both types of tissue transplants after administration of normal IgG. Graves' IgG therefore seems to be able to stimulate cell proliferation in toxic nodular goitre tissue.
Ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region.	This report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue. A growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised, and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter. Because this entity cannot be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor, ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area.
Erythrocyte dyscrasia, anemia, and hypothyroidism in chronically underweight llamas.	A syndrome characterized by anemia, erythrocyte dyscrasia, low body weight, and hypothyroidism was observed in 8 llamas (Lama glama). At initial examination (1 to 23 months of age; median, 7.5 months), llamas (3 males, 5 females) were markedly underweight (29 to 55 kg; median, 36 kg) and anemic (PCV, 12.9 to 25.5% [median, 19%]). Five of the llamas became progressively more anemic over time; in 2 of them, PCV decreased to less than 10%. Erythrocyte changes included severe poikilocytosis, anisocytosis, asymmetric distribution of hemoglobin within the cytoplasm, and cytoplasmic extensions from one or both poles. Six llamas had moderate to severe valgus deformities of the carpus. All llamas had low baseline serum thyroxine concentration and diminished response to thyrotropin administration. Baseline and post-thyrotropin triiodothyronine concentrations did not have consistent patterns. Five llamas were hypophosphatemic and 7 had low serum iron concentration (iron concentration was not determined in 1 llama). Orally administered iron supplementation did not induce clinical improvement. Because 3 of the affected llamas were full sisters, a genetic basis for the problem has to be considered. It was not possible to evaluate the familial relationship of the other 5 affected llamas. Although the underlying cause of the problem was not established, the prognosis for affected llamas is guarded to poor.
The use of computed tomography in the evaluation of large multinodular goitres.	This study reports one unit's experience of the value of computed tomography (CT) in the evaluation of 24 patients with large cervical and retrosternal goitres. Of these patients, 17 were thought clinically to have symptoms of tracheal compression, but the CT demonstrated significant narrowing in only 12 cases. In the other five patients, surgery was deferred and other causes for their symptoms sought and treated. Seven patients were asymptomatic and CT failed to reveal any evidence of tracheal compression in six. In the remaining patient, however, CT revealed gross narrowing and urgent surgery was performed. When compared with CT, chest/thoracic inlet radiographs were misleading in 48% of patients, with tracheal narrowing being overestimated and underestimated. We conclude that CT gives useful information about tracheal compression in patients with large multinodular goitres, and is more accurate than chest/thoracic inlet radiographs.
Thyroid volume and goitre prevalence in the elderly as determined by ultrasound and their relationships to laboratory indices.	In 569 unselected elderly subjects over 60 years from the general population of an iodine-deficient area, a palpation and an ultrasound investigation of the thyroid were performed. Additionally, thyroid hormone values were determined in 466 of the 569 subjects (81.9%) and urinary iodine excretion in 491 subjects (86.3%). By palpation, no thyroid enlargement was noticed in 302 subjects (54.2%), goitre Ia in 98 (17.6%), goitre Ib in 94 (16.9%), goitre II in 53 (9.5%), and goitre III in 10 (1.8%). The thyroid volumes (medians) by ultrasound were 18.6 ml in the entire group, in women (N = 489) 19.2 ml, and in men (N = 80) 16.6 ml. One hundred and one subjects had a thyroid nodule (17.6%), 43 persons cystic lesions (7.6%). If, according to the literature, a goitre is defined as a thyroid enlargement of more than 18 ml in women and more than 25 ml in males, a goitre prevalence of 54.2% in females and of 22.5% in males was obtained. The goitre prevalence in the entire group was calculated as 49.7%. Thyroid hormone measurements showed in subjects with goitre a significant lower TSH value (p less than 0.001) and a higher thyroglobulin value (p less than 0.001). In summary, the study shows a high prevalence of goitre in elderly subjects, a high prevalence of nodules in these thyroids, a negative correlation of goitre volume with TSH, and a positive correlation of goitre volume with the thyroglobulin concentration.
Papillary endothelial hyperplasia in the thyroid following fine-needle aspiration.	A 74-year-old woman was found to have exuberant papillary endothelial hyperplasia within her thyroid gland subsequent to multiple fine-needle aspiration biopsies of a Hürthle cell neoplasm. To our knowledge, this histologic alteration in the thyroid has not been previously reported. We describe this unusual complication following fine-needle aspiration, and we delineate the clinicopathologic and differential diagnostic features.
Florid capsular and pericapsular papillary endothelial proliferation associated with poorly differentiated thyroid carcinoma.	Papillary endothelial hyperplasia (PEH) occurring within or around the capsule of thyroid neoplasms is rare. Such Masson-like lesions, which have been attributed to fine needle aspiration-induced injury and thrombosis, can mimic tumor angioinvasion or vascular neoplasms. This study reports the case of a poorly differentiated carcinoma of the thyroid that was accompanied by more than 10 foci of pericapsular and peritumoral papillary endothelial hyperplasia, one of which contained a tumor embolus. The vessels within the papillary fronds had CD31- and CD34-staining blood vessels but were lined by D2-40 staining endothelial cells, which were continuous with the lining of the spaces within which PEH had developed. This suggests that, in contrast to Masson's lesions that develop within blood vessels as a result of thrombosis, pericapsular PEH associated with thyroid neoplasms develops within lymphatics, possibly related to lymphangiogenic factors secreted by the thyroid neoplasms.
Benign thyroid hyperplasia presenting as bilateral vocal cord paralysis. Complete remission following surgery.	A 52-year-old woman developed respiratory arrest on two separate occasions that required mechanical ventilation. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy demonstrated bilateral vocal cord paralysis, and a CT scan of the neck demonstrated a right neck mass. On surgical exploration, the mass was found extending from the thyroid gland and was identified as benign thyroid tissue. Thyroid hyperplasia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of bilateral vocal cord paralysis.
Tall-cell variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma: a matched-pair analysis of survival.	The tall-cell variant (TCV) of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is considered a more aggressive variant of PTC, with a poor prognosis. This is largely due to the tendency for TCV to present at an older age and with extrathyroidal extension (ETE). When these two variables are controlled for, it is unclear whether tall-cell histology alone portends a poor prognosis. Because previous studies have been underpowered to adequately answer this question, we hypothesized that TCV may have poorer prognosis than PTC. Our objective was to utilize a large cancer registry to obtain sufficient power to differentiate between outcomes in cases of TCV and PTC.
An autoradiographic study of cochlea and organs of guinea pigs after intraperitoneal injection of 125I-labelled bFGF.	The results of our research indicate that 125I-labelled basic fibroblast growth factor (125I-bFGF) has some difficulty in getting across the blood-labyrinth barrier (BLB). Therefore, it is necessary to carry out further study on the route of bFGF administration.
Small (<10 mm) thyroid nodules; how aggressively should they be managed?	Most commonly, an aggressive management (including surgery) is recommended for thyroid nodules measuring >10 mm. The aim of this review is to present currently available data regarding indications for aggressive treatment of small (<10 mm) thyroid nodules. Clinical factors (history of neck irradiation; extremes of age, i.e. children or elderly patients; family history of thyroid cancer, specifically medullary thyroid cancer, and MEN 2 A or B or familial medullary thyroid cancer; rapid growth of nodule), findings from routine laboratory investigation (increased thyroglobulin or calcitonin levels) or genetic testing (specific RET gene mutations), echomorphological characteristics of the suspicious nodule, and the result of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) should be combined to select those patients with small thyroid nodules, who should be treated surgically. In conclusion, nodule size per se is not an absolute criterion of safety. Aggressive treatment may be indicated in the presence of suspicious clinical/laboratory and/or ultrasound (US) findings. US-guided FNA should be performed when malignancy is a concern, regardless of nodule size, to avoid missing or undertreating a curable cancer.
Wegener's granulomatosis with splenic involvement and Hashimoto's lymphomatous thyroiditis]	A case of a 37-year old female patient suffering from Wegener's granulomatosis is reported. The chest x-ray showed a tumorous consolidation of the right upper lobe and of the apical segment of the right lower lobe. The histological examination of the lung, the kidney and the spleen revealed necrotising granulomas typical of Wegener's granulomatosis. Additionally, a thyroiditis lymphomatosa Hashimoto was diagnosed. So far, coincidence of thyroiditis Hashimoto and Wegener's granulomatosis has not been reported in the literature. The involvement of the spleen was a rare manifestation of Wegener's granulomatosis.
Sclerosing mucoepidermoid thyroid carcinoma with eosinophilia. A distinctive low-grade malignancy arising from the metaplastic follicles of Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	Eight cases of a distinctive low-grade carcinoma of the thyroid gland occurring in a background of Hashimoto's thyroiditis are reported. The patients were women presenting with a painless thyroid mass. Grossly, the tumors were white, homogeneous, firm, and usually ill defined. Histologically, strands and small nests of squamoid tumor cells exhibiting mild to moderate nuclear pleomorphism, distinct nucleoli, and pale cytoplasm infiltrated an abundant, dense fibrohyaline stroma. Foci of definite squamous differentiation and small pools of mucin were often found within the tumor nests. The neoplastic cells were immunoreactive for cytokeratin, but not for thyroglobulin or calcitonin. The stroma and many of the tumor islands were infiltrated by eosinophils in all cases. Extrathyroidal extension occurred in five cases and lymph node metastases in one. This tumor seems to arise from the benign squamous nests sometimes associated with mucin deposition found in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and thought to be the result of metaplastic changes of the follicular epithelium. It shares several morphologic features with cases previously reported as mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the thyroid, but it differs from them in other respects. The differential diagnosis includes undifferentiated/squamous cell carcinoma, intrathyroidal thymic carcinoma, and direct extension or metastasis of carcinoma from other organs.
Follicular lesions of the thyroid: a retrospective study of 1,348 fine needle aspiration biopsies.	Fine needle aspiration (FNA) has proven to be an effective tool in management of patients with thyroid nodules. However, the diagnosis of follicular patterned lesions can be challenging. The surgical and cytopathology computer database at a large referral medical center was searched for cases that had both cytologic and histologic thyroid accessions from January 2004 to November 2008. A total of 1,255 histologic thyroid specimens and 2,776 thyroid FNA biopsies were retrieved for review. Histologically, 272 overt malignancies were identified; 20 (7.4%) were follicular carcinomas. Cytologically, 1,348 cases were follicular-patterned lesions, comprising 1,044 cases of "benign follicular nodules" (BFN), 137 cases of "follicular lesions of undetermined significance" (FLUS), and 167 cases of "suspicious for follicular neoplasm" (SFN). Seventy-nine (7.5%) of BFN, 23 (16.8%) of FLUS, and 65 (38.9%) of SFN cases had histologic follow-up. Overt malignancy, a cystic papillary carcinoma, was identified histologically in only one case of BFN, for a negative predictive value of 98.7%. Overt malignancy was identified histologically in two cases of FLUS, both follicular variant of papillary carcinoma, for a positive predictive value of 8.7%. Overt malignancy was identified histologically in 14 cases of SFN, for a positive predictive value of 21.5%. Five follicular carcinomas were identified histologically in the SFN category, all minimally invasive. Incidental ("occult") papillary microcarcinoma were identified histologically in all three categories. In this study, the risk of overt malignancy increases from 1.3%, to 8.7%, to 21.5% for BFN, FLUS, and SFN, respectively. All follicular carcinomas identified histologically occurred in the SFN category and all were minimally invasive. Papillary microcarcinomas can occur in any of the three diagnostic categories.
A solid thyroid benign nodule that showed a significant decrease in size and ultrasonographic findings mimicking papillary carcinoma during 16-year follow-up.	Recent advances in ultrasonography and fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) have facilitated accurate diagnosis of thyroid carcinomas that require treatment. However, we often encounter nodules evaluated as malignant on ultrasonography but diagnosed as benign on cytology, for which the optimal treatment strategy remains uncertain. A 28-year-old female had solitary and solid thyroid nodule measuring 6 cm in maximal diameter in February 1994. The lesion was cytologically diagnosed as benign. From September 1998, the nodule spontaneously decreased in size but ultrasonographic findings suspicious of malignancy such as peripheral and intra-tumoral calcification, low internal echo and irregular border gradually appeared. In July 2010, the volume of her nodule showed 97% decrease but was evaluated as papillary carcinoma on ultrasonography. FNAB was performed again and the nodule was diagnosed as benign. When we encounter a nodule showing ultrasonographic findings suggestive of malignancy with negative cytology, we should consider the possibility of a benign nodule degenerating over time.
Symptomatic calcification of a thyroid lobe and surrounding tissue after radioactive iodine treatment to ablate the lobe.	Fine-needle aspiration diagnosis of follicular carcinoma presents a dilemma because malignancy is confirmed when vascular or capsular invasion is present. Completion thyroidectomy may be necessary when the diagnosis of follicular carcinoma is made following hemithyroidectomy. Ablation of the remaining lobe with radioactive iodine has been used as an alternative to completion thyroidectomy. Here we report an unusual apparent complication of this treatment.
Thyroid pathology in PTEN-hamartoma tumor syndrome: characteristic findings of a distinct entity.	Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN)-hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS) is a complex disorder caused by germline inactivating mutations of the PTEN tumor suppressor gene. PHTS includes Cowden syndrome (CS), Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRRS), and Proteus-like syndromes. Affected individuals develop both benign and malignant tumors in a variety of tissues, including the thyroid. This study is to better characterize and describe the thyroid pathology within the different entities of this syndrome, and examine whether there is an association between specific thyroid findings and different PTEN mutations.
Systematic review and meta-analysis of sentinel node biopsy in thyroid cancer.	Sentinel node biopsy (SNB) is employed as standard treatment in some solid organ cancers to assess lymph node spread and enable targeted treatment. Several studies have investigated the role of SNB in thyroid cancer. This is a systematic review and meta-analysis of the role of SNB in the management of thyroid cancer.
Microdeletion of 17q22q23.2 encompassing TBX2 and TBX4 in a patient with congenital microcephaly, thyroid duct cyst, sensorineural hearing loss, and pulmonary hypertension.	Microdeletions of the long arm of chromosome 17 are being reported with increasing frequency. Deletions of 17q22q23.2 may represent a genetically recognizable phenotype although its spectrum of genomic abnormalities, clinical manifestations, and critical regions are not fully delineated. Isolated reports and small case series suggest that deletions of 17q22q23.2 result in haploinsufficiency of dosage sensitive genes NOG, TBX2, and TBX4, which may be responsible for many aspects of the phenotype. Shared clinical features in this group of patients include microcephaly, prenatal onset growth restriction, heart defects, tracheoesophageal fistula, and esophageal atresia (TEF/EA), skeletal anomalies, and moderate to severe global developmental delay. We describe a female patient who presented with severe congenital microcephaly, thyroglossal duct cyst, sensorineural hearing loss, mild tracheomalacia, abnormal auricles, pulmonary hypertension, developmental delay, and postnatal onset growth delay. She had no TEF/EA or heart defects. Using a high density oligonucleotide microarray, we identified a microdeletion at 17q22q23.2, resulting in the heterozygous loss of several genes, including TBX2 and TBX4 but not NOG. The breakpoints did not lie within known segmental duplications. This case helps to further delineate the critical region for TEF/EA, which is likely confined to the chromosomal region proximal to 17q23.1, and suggests that genes in 17q23.1q23.2 may be associated with thyroglossal duct cysts. The role of TBX2 and TBX4 in pulmonary hypertension warrants investigation.
To ablate or not to ablate: issues and evidence involved in 131I ablation of residual thyroid tissue in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma.	Ablation of residual thyroid tissue after total or near-total thyroidectomy is widely accepted by many practitioners and endorsed by relevant professional societies in the United States and the international community for patients with defined risk factors, including age greater than 45 years, large tumors; tumors with undesirable histopathology; lymph node involvement; positive surgical margins; gross and possibly microscopic extrathyroidal extension; and, of course, evidence or suspicion of distal metastases, including mediastinal lymphadenopathy, pulmonary or osseous metastases or involvement of other organs. (131)I therapy doses of 3.7-5.5 GBq (100-150 mCi) should be used, and additional activity should be used in the event there are additional findings on pretreatment whole-body scans. Depending upon the patient's age, general medical condition, and renal function, nuclear medicine practitioners should be prepared to perform whole body (blood or bone marrow) dosimetry in the event doses >5.5 GBq (150 mCi) are being considered to assure patient safety. Still unresolved is the role of (131)I ablation in the so-called "low risk" patient--particularly in a patient who has undergone a near-total thyroidectomy in the hands of a skilled surgeon. If an ablative dose is to be administered, 0.9-1.8 MBq (25-50 mCi) appears to be sufficient to eliminate most if not all thyroid tissue. The problem is defining the "low-risk" patient. After review of the extensive literature on this subject, it appears that the thoughtful and informed practitioner must make a patient specific decision in this setting on the basis of his/her experience and review of the details in each case and continue to review the evidence on this subject as it becomes available.
Thyroid stunning: fact or fiction?	Stunning of thyroid tissue by diagnostic activities of (131)I has been described by some investigators and refuted by others. The support both for and against stunning has at times been enthusiastic and vigorous. We present the data from both sides of the debate in an attempt to highlight the strengths and deficiencies in the investigations cited. Clinical, animal, and in vitro studies are included. There are considerable differences in clinical practice, such as the administered activity for diagnostic whole-body scan, delay between diagnostic scan and treatment, time between treatment and posttherapy scanning, and timing of follow-up studies, that have to be analyzed with care. Other factors that often cannot be judged, such as levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone and serum iodine at time of diagnostic testing versus treatment could have an influence on stunning. Larger diagnostic doses and longer delays to therapy appear to increase the likelihood of stunning. The stunning effect of early-absorbed radiation from the therapy should also be considered.
Sorafenib induced thyroiditis in two patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.	Sorafenib is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor licensed for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma. Thyroid function test abnormalities have been reported for different tyrosine kinase inhibitors, but only limited data on thyroid function test abnormalities related to sorafenib are available, demonstrating the occurrence of hypothyroidism in patients treated with sorafenib.
The minimally-invasive thyroidectomy incision: a histological analysis.	Minimally invasive thyroidectomy (MIT) has gained popularity in the surgical management of benign and malignant pathology of the thyroid. One of the main benefits of utilizing this technique is the use of smaller incisions resulting in increased cosmetic satisfaction. Unfortunately, the retraction required for adequate exposure during MIT may lead to skin damage, impaired wound healing and poor cosmetic outcomes. Some have proposed that excising incision edges prior to closure may improve cosmesis. A review of the literature does not reveal any histologic evidence to support this technique.
Malignancy rate in sonographically suspicious thyroid nodules of less than a centimeter in size does not decrease with decreasing size.	We evaluated the malignancy and nondiagnostic rates using fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) results in thyroid nodules smaller than 1 cm according to the subdivided size. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all subjects underwent FNAC from 2003 to 2009 in our hospital, and 2,756 patients of subcentimeter thyroid nodules with one or more suspicious sonographic features and 7,105 with nodule sized 1 cm or more were included. The malignancy rate was higher in those subcentimeter nodules with suspicious sonographic findings than the nodule sized 1cm or more (19.7% vs 7.8%, P < 0.001). We grouped the nodules based on size with mm interval and observed that the malignancy rate did not decrease but the nondiagnostic results increased its size decrement. When we divided the subjects arbitrarily into a 5 mm or smaller and a 6-9 mm sized group, nondiagnostic cytology findings were reported more frequently in the smaller group (24.3% vs 18.1%, P = 0.001), while the rate of "malignant" was similar (18.3% vs 15.5%, P = 0.123) and the rate of "suspicious for malignancy" was higher (6.8% vs 2.9%, P < 0.001). Therefore when we decide to perform FNAC or not in subcentimeter-sized nodules, we should consider sonographic findings and other clinical risk factors but not the nodular size itself.
The role of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in thyroid neoplasms.	(18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) has established itself as an important imaging modality in many oncological and nononcological specialties and, as a consequence, it is increasingly being used in clinical practice. Since the first report of FDG being taken up by metastatic differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) cells >20 years ago, various groups of investigators have explored the potential role of FDG-PET scanning in patients with benign and malignant thyroid neoplasms. With the increasing demand for FDG-PET scanning, clinicians are faced with the challenge of managing an increasing number of FDG-PET-detected thyroid incidentalomas because their significance remains unclear. The aims of this review are to address some of these issues, specifically, the clinical significance of FDG-PET-detected thyroid incidentalomas, the ability of FDG-PET to characterize thyroid nodules, especially those with indeterminate fine needle aspiration cytology results, and the role of FDG-PET in patients with confirmed primary DTC and with suspected recurrent DTC, by reviewing the current literature.
Ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology for thyroid nodules: an emphasis on one-sampling and biopsy techniques.	The aim of this study was to assess the adequacy and efficacy of ultrasonography (US)-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology (US-FNAC) with one-sampling technique (only one specimen through a single needle pass was obtained during the procedure on each thyroid nodule in each study patient) for the cytological diagnosis of thyroid nodules. In this study, US-FNAC techniques, including "free two-hand," "mixed sampling," "flipping-extraction," and "single-needle-pass" procedures were used to collect thyroid cells from July 2007 to June 2009. The cytopathology results and patients' complications were reviewed retrospectively. Of the 1456 thyroid-nodule samples obtained from 977 patients (1.49 per patient), the incidence of adequate and inadequate samplings was 88.5% (1289/1456) and 11.5% (167/1456), respectively. After thyroid surgery in 396 patients, 568 nodules were confirmed as 353 papillary thyroid carcinomas including one diffuse sclerosing variant, five follicular thyroid carcinomas, three medullary thyroid carcinomas, one anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, one metastatic renal cell carcinoma, two poorly differentiated carcinomas, 17 follicular adenomas, two nodular thyroiditis, two pseudonodules related to thyroiditis, and 182 cases of nodular hyperplasia. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, accuracy, false-negative rate, and false-positive rate for the US-FNAC were 94.3%, 91.9%, 96.2%, 88.3%, 93.6%, 3.9%, and 2.6%, respectively. There were no significant patients' complications, but 87 patients (8.9%) reported mild pain during or after the procedure. This study showed a good adequacy and efficacy of US-FNAC for thyroid nodules despite one-sampling.
Papillary carcinoma with extensive squamous metaplasia arising from thyroglossal duct cyst in an 11-year-old girl: significance of differentiation from squamous cell carcinoma: a case report.	We report a case of papillary carcinoma (PC) with extensive squamous metaplasia arising from a thyroglossal duct cyst (TDC) that required differential diagnosis from squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). An 11-year-old Japanese girl presented with a 9-month history of an anterior-midline neck mass that was clinically diagnosed as TDC. Open neck biopsy revealed nested proliferation of atypical squamous cells within the cystic structures, and SCC arising from TDC was initially suspected. Further examination, however, including immunohistochemistry, revealed the tumor to be of thyroid cell origin. The patient underwent wide local resection of the thyroglossal duct carcinoma by Sistrunk procedure and cervical lymph node dissection. Microscopically, the diagnosis was of PC with extensive squamous metaplasia and metastasis to the medial submandibular lymph node. Distinction of squamous metaplasia in PC from SCC is sometimes difficult, but has a significant effect on postoperative management.
Benign hereditary chorea.	Benign hereditary chorea (BHC) is a hyperkinetic movement disorder that historically has been characterized as a nonprogressive, dominantly inherited, childhood-onset chorea with normal intelligence. However, in some cases, atypical features were described such that controversy arose regarding whether BHC was a single syndrome. In 2002, a candidate gene, thyroid transcription factor (TITF-1), was identified to cause at least some cases of BHC. Since that time, the classical phenotype has expanded further to include "brain-thyroid-lung syndrome," which, in addition to the neurological symptoms, also manifests variable degrees of thyroid and lung abnormalities. Pathophysiologic mechanisms by which symptoms can occur are postulated to include haploinsufficiency (loss of function) and/or dominant negative effect on wild-type protein. However, genotype-phenotype correlations are complex and there is no clear relationship between mutation size, location or type of mutation, and severity of phenotype. Gross and microscopic pathology has been unremarkable, though immunohistochemistry suggests that BHC may manifest as a result of a reduced complement of migratory interneurons to the striatum and cortex. This chapter reviews the historical literature and current understanding regarding this familial, developmental disorder.
Significance of repeatedly nondiagnostic thyroid fine-needle aspirations.	Nondiagnostic thyroid fine-needle aspirations are associated with a risk of malignancy that can be reduced with repeated aspiration. However, the significance of repeated nondiagnostic aspirates is less well studied. This study assessed the risk of malignancy for repeated nondiagnostic aspirates from a large series of cases using the results of histologic follow-up. From a series of 7,089 aspirates, there were 1,671 nondiagnostic aspirates (23.6%), and 235 of these (14.1%) had histologic follow-up. The risk of malignancy for a single nondiagnostic aspirate was 20.0% (47/235). A total of 51 cases had repeated aspiration. The risk of malignancy for cases with a second nondiagnostic aspirate was 0% (0/23), which was significantly less than for patients with a single nondiagnostic aspirate (20.0%; P = .03). Patients with 2 sequential nondiagnostic thyroid aspirates have a very low risk of malignancy. Cytologists should strive to better convey this risk in their reports.
Clinical outcome for atypia of undetermined significance in thyroid fine-needle aspirations: should repeated fna be the preferred initial approach?	In the Bethesda System for reporting thyroid fine-needle aspirations (FNAs), atypia of undetermined significance (AUS) is a category with limited reported follow-up and outcome data. We report a retrospective analysis of our institution's experience during nearly 4.5 years with a tiered classification scheme conforming to the Bethesda System in which repeated FNA was recommended for most patients with an initial AUS diagnosis. Of 4,691 thyroid FNAs, 512 (10.9%) had a diagnosis of AUS. Cytologic or histologic outcome data were available for 331 cases (64.6%), of which 240 (72.5%) were benign and 91 (27.5%) were malignant. Of patients with a surgical diagnosis, there was no statistically significant difference in malignancy rate among patients who went directly to surgery after a single AUS diagnosis (37/90 [41%]), patients having 2 successive AUS FNA diagnoses (22/51 [43%]), and patients with a benign aspirate after AUS (2/7 [29%]). Although AUS confers an intermediate risk of malignancy, guidelines recommending repeated FNA for most cases should be reevaluated.
The triage efficacy of fine needle aspiration biopsy for follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma using the Bethesda reporting guidelines.	Diagnosis of follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (FVPTC) by ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is challenging. In this retrospective review, we evaluated triage efficacy (i.e., potential for triggering surgical intervention) in 44 archived FNA biopsies of surgically confirmed FVPTC obtained between December 2006 and December 2008. We compared the original FNA diagnoses with reclassified diagnoses based on 2007 National Cancer Institute (NCI)/Bethesda recommendations, and reviewed FNA cytologic features. Original FNA diagnoses included colloid nodule (7%, 3/44), atypical follicular cells (5%, 2/44), follicular lesion (11%, 5/44), follicular neoplasm (16%, 7/44), suspicious for malignancy/PTC (27%, 12/44), and papillary thyroid carcinoma (34%, 15/44). Reclassified diagnoses included indeterminate (5%, 2/44), colloid nodule (7%, 3/44), atypical cells of undetermined significance [ACUS] (7%, 3/44), Hurthle cell neoplasm (2%, 1/44), follicular neoplasm (7%, 3/44), suspicious for malignancy/PTC (25%, 11/44), and PTC (48%, 21/44). Triage efficacy was 77% (34/44) for original diagnoses versus 82% (36/44) for reclassified FNA diagnoses. We frequently observed cytologic features of PTC, such as nuclear grooves and fine chromatin; conversely, intranuclear inclusions, though present in 77% cases, were scant. Our review findings suggest that lack of characteristic cytologic features of PTC,coexistence with other thyroid lesions, and small tumor size arethe major obstacles to FNA diagnosis of FVPTC. Reclassification of thyroid FNA diagnoses does not significantly improve triage efficacy. Furthermore, FNA diagnoses of follicular neoplasm and suspicious for malignancy are valuable in patients with FVPTC because they trigger triage toward surgical intervention.
A simplified Bethesda System for reporting thyroid cytopathology using only four categories improves intra- and inter-observer diagnostic agreement and provides non-overlapping estimates of malignancy risks.	Our previous study utilizing the 2008 NCI six-category system (also known as The Bethesda System) for reporting thyroid fine-needle aspirations (FNA) identified considerable overlap in diagnosis and in assigned malignancy risk estimates for the "follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS)" and "follicular neoplasm (FN)" categories and for the "suspicious for malignancy (Susp)" and "malignant" categories. We proposed a simplified Bethesda System for reporting thyroid FNAs that provided four non-overlapping, statistically significant, and more clinically relevant diagnostic categories: unsatisfactory, benign, FLUS/FN, and Susp/malignant. In the current study, six cytopathologists participated in a blinded retrospective review of 60 thyroid FNAs and kappa statistics were utilized to compare the intra- and inter-observer diagnostic agreements obtained using the six-category and the simplified four-category schemes. Surgical follow-up was used to determine which scheme provided more discrete malignancy risk estimates. Use of the simplified four-category scheme significantly improved intra- and inter-observer diagnostic agreement levels, significantly increased the sensitivity of FNA for a diagnosis of carcinoma in the subsequently resected thyroid glands, and provided non-overlapping malignancy risk estimates for each diagnostic category.
Potential pitfalls for false suspicion of papillary thyroid carcinoma: a cytohistologic review of 22 cases.	To evaluate the diagnostic pitfalls attributing to false suspicious interpretation of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), we performed a retrospective cytohistologic review of thyroid nodules diagnosed as suspicious for papillary carcinoma with histology-proven false suspicion of PTC. A total of 22 thyroid fine needle aspirates along with the corresponding surgical specimens were reviewed. The presence and/or absence of PTC-associated morphologic features and their mimics were evaluated. One aspirate showed papillary-like fragments with honeycomb architecture. One aspirate contained rare syncytial-type fragments which were accompanied by honeycomb sheets of follicular cells and moderate amount of colloid. Intranuclear grooves presented occasionally in virtually all 22 aspirates. The grooves were noted mainly within round nuclei and appeared thin and/or incomplete. Rare intranuclear pseudoinclusions were detected in one otherwise benign-appearing aspirates. Eight aspirates contained various numbers of histiocytes, as well as atypical polygonal, epithelioid, elongate, or spindle cells in which intranuclear grooves were occasionally seen. Conspicuous fragments of fibrocollagenous tissue with entrapped follicular cells were detected in one aspirate. The corresponding histological specimen revealed counterpart of the cytological findings described. Other features associated with PTC were inconspicuous. The findings demonstrated that the following factors may contribute to the false suspicion of PTC: (1) misinterpretation of papillary-like tissue fragments with honeycomb arrangement and fragments offibrocollagenous tissue with entrapped follicular cells; (2) overinterpretation of suboptimal intranuclear grooves and rare intranuclear pseudoinclusion in the absence of the other features of PTC; (3) misinterpretation of the polygonal, epithelioid, elongate, or spindle cells that actually represented atypical cyst lining cells.
Does a small difference in iodine status among children in two regions of Belgium translate into a different prevalence of thyroid nodular diseases in adults?	To explore whether there are regional differences in iodine status and in prevalence of thyroid diseases in the two main regions of Belgium.
Serum thyrotropin as a risk factor for thyroid malignancy in euthyroid subjects with thyroid micronodule.	An elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level is a risk factor for differentiated thyroid cancer. The present study investigated whether TSH is a risk factor for thyroid microcarcinoma (TMC) in euthyroid subjects with a micronodule.
IgG4-related disease of the thyroid glands.	Recent reports on Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) with increased numbers of IgG4-positive plasma cells suggest that this type of HT may have a close relationship to IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD).  This unique subgroup of HT is termed as IgG4 thyroiditis and reveals distinct clinical, serological, and sonographic features from the non-IgG4 thyroiditis group.  On the basis of immunostaining for IgG4, HT was divided into an IgG4 thyroiditis group and a non-IgG4 thyroiditis group.  Clinically, IgG4 thyroiditis was associated with younger age group, lower female-male ratio, higher levels of thyroid autoantibodies, diffuse low echogenicity, more rapid progress requiring surgical treatment and more subclinical hypothyroidism.  Serum IgG4 concentrations elevated in IgG4 thyroiditis and decreased significantly after a thyroidectomy.  Histopathologically, IgG4 thyroiditis showed a higher grade of stromal fibrosis, lymphoplasmacytic infiltration, and follicular cell degeneration than non-IgG4 thyroiditis.  IgG4 thyroiditis may represent IgG4-RD of thyroid gland, because it shares common histopathological characteristics with IgG4-RD in other organs.  The identification of IgG4-RD of the thyroid gland opens new insights not only for patient's treatment with HT but also for the development of new therapeutic approaches for this rapidly progressive destructive subtype of HT.  This article mainly focuses on reviewing the unique histopathological, clinical, and serological features of IgG4 thyroiditis group of HT.  The etiology and genetic changes of HT are also discussed.
Thyroid-specific ablation of the Carney complex gene, PRKAR1A, results in hyperthyroidism and follicular thyroid cancer.	Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy in the population, and the incidence of this cancer is increasing at a rapid rate. Although genetic analysis of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) has identified mutations in a large percentage of patients, the genetic basis of follicular thyroid cancer (FTC) is less certain. Thyroid cancer, including both PTC and FTC, has been observed in patients with the inherited tumor predisposition Carney complex, caused by mutations in PRKAR1A. In order to investigate the role of loss of PRKAR1A in thyroid cancer, we generated a tissue-specific knockout of Prkar1a in the thyroid. We report that the resulting mice are hyperthyroid and developed follicular thyroid neoplasms by 1 year of age, including FTC in over 40% of animals. These thyroid tumors showed a signature of pathway activation different from that observed in other models of thyroid cancer. In vitro cultures of the tumor cells indicated that Prkar1a-null thyrocytes exhibited growth factor independence and suggested possible new therapeutic targets. Overall, this work represents the first report of a genetic mutation known to cause human FTC that exhibits a similar phenotype when modeled in the mouse. In addition to our knowledge of the mechanisms of human follicular thyroid tumorigenesis, this model is highly reproducible and may provide a viable mechanism for the further clinical development of therapies aimed at FTC.
Predictive factors of failure in a fixed 15 mCi 131I-iodide therapy for Graves' disease.	To investigate the factors influencing the success rate in a fixed, 15 mCi approach for treatment of Graves' hyperthyroidism.
Histologic follow-up of nondiagnostic thyroid fine needle aspirations: implications for adequacy criteria.	There is limited histologic follow-up for adequacy criteria in thyroid fine needle aspirations. We correlated the number of benign follicular cells in nondiagnostic aspirates (excluding atypical and Hurthle cells) and the results of histologic follow-up. A total of 170 cases with only benign follicular cells were reviewed. The sensitivity and specificity for 60 benign follicular cells was 97% and 42%. If the threshold for adequacy was lowered to 10 cells, the specificity of a benign diagnosis increased significantly (42% to 50%, P < 0.001) without a significant change in sensitivity (97% to 96%, P = 0.45). An additional 63 cases were diagnosed as adequate with three false negative cases. Lowering the threshold to 30 cells had no change in sensitivity (97%), increased specificity to 45% but this was not significant (P = 0.08). An additional 26 aspirates could be diagnosed as adequate without any false negative cases. Histologic follow-up suggests that the current criteria for adequacy can be lowered to improve specificity while retaining excellent sensitivity.
Correlation of thyroid nodule fine-needle aspiration cytology with corresponding histology at Mayo Clinic, 2001-2007: an institutional experience of 1,945 cases.	Following the National Cancer Institute Thyroid Fine Needle Aspiration State of the Science Conference, the thyroid fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) practice at Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, conducted retrospective analyses correlating cytologic and histologic evaluations of thyroid nodules. Cytologic and histologic reports were retrieved for patients with thyroid nodules who underwent thyroid FNAB between January 2001 and December 2007, with subsequent surgical thyroid resection. Cases were classified by major cytologic and histologic diagnosis and specific diagnostic subcategories. Of 1,945 FNAB cytologic results, 180 (9.3%) were nondiagnostic; 512 (26.3%) were negative for malignancy; 27 (1.4%) were atypical; 729 (37.5%) were suspicious for malignancy; and 497 (25.6%) were positive for malignancy. Histology was benign in 1,179 (60.6%) and malignant in 766 (39.4%). For thyroid malignancy as the disease outcome, at cytologic thresholds of atypical, suspicious, and positive, overall sensitivity of thyroid FNAB was 94.5%, 94.1%, and 65.0%, respectively, and specificity was 46.0%, 48.3%, and 98.5%, respectively. Positive predictive value for all malignancies was 97.0%, and negative predictive value was 92.0%. When separated by specific malignant outcomes, diagnoses of papillary carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, and lymphoma had specificity of suspicious FNAB diagnoses ranging from 90.5% to 99.6%; positive predictive value ranged from 87.5% to 91.4%. For follicular or Hürthle carcinoma, suspicious FNAB diagnoses had a specificity of 52.5% and a positive predictive value of 5.9%. Sensitivity of indeterminate FNAB diagnoses ranged from 72.7% to 95.3%. For follicular or Hürthle pattern malignancies, indeterminate cytologic diagnoses should be interpreted with caution by the clinician considering surgical management. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2012;40:E27-E32. © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Fine-needle aspiration in the evaluation of thyroid lesions in children.	The role of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytology in the evaluation of thyroid lesions in not as well established in children when compared with adults. Hence we aimed to ascertain the utility and limitations of FNA in childhood thyroid lesions. This was a retrospective analysis of all thyroid FNA performed in children less than 14 years of age over a 4-year period (2005-2009). Histopathological follow-up was available in six cases. A total of 77 cases were included in the analysis. The most common cytological diagnosis was lymphocytic thyroiditis (49.3%), followed by colloid goiter (18.2%), hyperplasia (10.4%), and benign aspirate (7.8%); malignancy was identified in six cases (7.8%). Of these six cases, three were papillary thyroid carcinoma. There was one false-positive case reported as a Hurthle-cell neoplasm, which on histology showed Hashimoto's thyroiditis. One case each of rhabdomyosarcoma and spindle epithelial tumor with thymus like differentiation was wrongly diagnosed as thyroid neoplasm, NOS, and medullary carcinoma (spindle variant), respectively. The overall diagnostic accuracy was 98.6% with 100% sensitivity, 98.6% specificity, 80% positive predictive value, and 100% negative predictive value. FNA is extremely valuable in the initial evaluation of thyroid swelling in children. Rare neoplasms masquerading as thyroid nodules in children can pose difficulties in diagnosis; however, papillary carcinoma is easily recognized. In lymphocytic thyroiditis, it provides a tissue diagnosis, thereby avoiding more invasive procedure for merely diagnostic purposes.
Diagnostic usefulness of fragments of crushed cells in autoimmune thyroiditis.	Fine-needle aspiration cytology has emerged as an important diagnostic tool in cases of autoimmune thyroiditis. However, the patchy nature of this disease and its coexistence with other thyroid pathologies, with only subtle demonstrable cytologic features in many cases can lead to misdiagnosis. Of 313 thyroid aspirates, 62 were diagnosed as autoimmune thyroiditis. Fragments of crushed cells were observed in 51 (82.11%) of autoimmune thyroiditis (P < 0.001). The presence of "crush artifact" that can be easily picked up on low magnification should be used as an important criterion for the diagnosis of thyroiditis. It is particularly helpful in cellular smears from thyroiditis to avoid misdiagnosis of neoplasia.
Hemithyroidectomy is the preferred initial operative approach for an indeterminate fine needle aspiration biopsy diagnosis.	Fine needle aspiration biopsy represents the critical initial diagnostic test used for evaluation of thyroid nodules. Our objectives were to determine the cytological distribution, the utility of clinicopathologic characteristics for predicting malignancy and the true proportion of cancer among individuals who presented with indeterminate cytology and had undergone thyroid surgery for suspicion of cancer.
Cytotechnologist-attended on-site adequacy evaluation of thyroid fine-needle aspiration: comparison with cytopathologists and correlation with the final interpretation.	Recent increases in the number of thyroid fine-needle aspiration (FNAs) biopsies and the popularity of on-site evaluation for adequacy (OSEA) have led many practices, including ours, to rely on cytotechnologists for performing OSEA. We retrospectively analyzed the accuracy of a cytotechnologist against that of a cytopathologist in performing OSEA and making the final diagnosis. Of 2,261 thyroid FNA specimens evaluated over a 33-month period under ultrasound guidance with OSEA, the cytotechnologist attended 64.7% (1,462/2,261) of the procedures whereas the cytopathologist attended 35.3% (799/2,261). There was no difference in the adequacy downgrade rate for cytotechnologists compared with that for cytopathologists during this study period (4.1% vs 5.0% downgrade rate, P = .33). Regardless of who rendered the OSEA, subadequate specimens had a higher rate of indeterminate diagnosis (25.2%) than those specimens deemed adequate at the time of OSEA (11.9%, P = .00001). These results indicate that the accuracy of cytotechnologists is comparable with that of cytopathologists in conducting OSEA of the thyroid.
Insular thyroid carcinoma in a Filipino woman.	A 30-year-old Filipino woman presented with goitre of 4 years' duration. The right thyroid lobe was enlarged with no palpable lymph nodes. She had no thyrotoxic signs and symptoms. Free thyroxine and thyrotropin were normal. Ultrasound revealed a cystic nodule on the right lobe. Fine needle aspiration biopsy was consistent with colloid nodule. She underwent right lobectomy with extended isthmusectomy. Microscopic examination of the 6.5 cm mass showed well-defined, round, nests of tumour cells surrounded by a rim of collagen. Mitotic figures and necrosis were absent. There was capsular invasion. Immunohistochemical staining was positive for thyroglobulin and negative for calcitonin. These findings gave the diagnosis of insular thyroid carcinoma. She underwent complete thyroidectomy with central node dissection. Five weeks after, she received 3700 MBq of radioactive iodine 131. Post-treatment, whole body scan revealed functioning thyroid tissue limited to the thyroid bed. The patient is on regular follow-up 2 years after diagnosis with no evidence of disease.
Scintigraphic thyroid volume calculation in hyperthyroid cats.	A successful, euthyroid outcome after radioiodine therapy in hyperthyroid cats ranges from 83% to 95%. Thyroid volume has been reported as one of the factors influencing radioiodine therapy outcome in man and cats. The goal of this study was to describe the most reliable and practically applicable formula to determine thyroid volume using scintigraphy. The volume of each thyroid lobe of 32 hyperthyroid cats was determined by ultrasound and scintigraphy. The ultrasonographically determined volume (ellipsoid formula) for each thyroid lobe was compared with the scintigraphic volume that was calculated using eight different formulas: F1 [(π/6) × L × H × W], F2 [(π /2) × L × W(2)], F3 [0.33 × (area cm(2))(3/2)], F4 [1.08 × (π /6) × L × W(2)], F5 (area × H), F6 (0.27 × area × L), F7 (π × L × W(2)) and F8 [π × (4/3) × W(3)]. F1, F3, F4 and F6 did not differ statistically from the volumes measured on ultrasound, while F2, F5, F7 and F8 did. Subjective shape assessment of the thyroid lobes, assigned as cylindrical or spherical, and the use of corresponding formulas, did not appear to be useful.
The BRAF(V600E) mutation is an independent, poor prognostic factor for the outcome of patients with low-risk intrathyroid papillary thyroid carcinoma: single-institution results from a large cohort study.	The BRAF(V600E) mutation, the most frequent genetic alteration in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), was demonstrated to be a poor prognostic factor. The aim of this study was to evaluate its prognostic significance in a large cohort of low-risk intrathyroid PTC.
Does smoking affect thyroid gland enlargement and nodule formation in iodine-sufficient regions?	The present study aimed to investigate the effect of smoking on thyroid nodule formation and goiter development in healthy subjects living in Istanbul, an iodine-sufficient region. This study was designed as a prospective, randomized, and observational study.
Malignancy risk analysis in patients with inadequate fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) of the thyroid.	Thyroid fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is the standard diagnostic modality for thyroid nodules. However, it has limitations among which is the incidence of non-diagnostic results (Thy1). Management of cases with repeatedly non-diagnostic FNAC ranges from simple observation to surgical intervention. We aim to evaluate the incidence of malignancy in non-diagnostic FNAC, and the success rate of repeated FNAC. We also aim to evaluate risk factors for malignancy in patients with non-diagnostic FNAC.
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid bed lesions in post-thyroidectomy patients: what is the importance of nondiagnostic biopsy results?	The purpose of this study was to determine the importance of nondiagnostic fine-needle aspiration biopsy results for post-thyroidectomy bed lesions in patients with thyroid cancer.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the thyroid with abundant IgG4-positive plasma cells.	A case of thyroidal mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma mimicking IgG4-related disease is described. A 54-year-old male presented with acute swelling of the anterior neck. Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC), malignant lymphoma (ML), or acute deterioration of Hashimoto's thyroiditis were initially suspected, and an emergent tracheostomy was required for progressive airway obstruction; a simultaneous biopsy from the thyroid tissue was performed. Histopathologically, the lesion consisted of sclerotic fibrosis and diffuse and dense infiltration by small lymphoid cells without atypia and plasma cells, many of which were IgG4-positive. Blood examination also revealed high serum IgG4 levels. Riedel's thyroiditis was suspected. However, despite medical treatments, a firm swelling of the thyroid still remained. In an in situ hybridization study, IgG4-negative plasma cells showed immunoglobulin light-chain restriction (κ-monotype), and immunoglobulin heavy (IgH) chain gene monoclonal re-arrangement was detected by polymerase chain reaction. The lesion was finally diagnosed as MALT lymphoma. When IgG4-related disease is suspected, it is important to thoroughly exclude other possibilities. 
A standardized assessment of thyroid nodules in children confirms higher cancer prevalence than in adults.	Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy, but due to its rare occurrence in the pediatric population, the cancer risk of childhood thyroid nodules is incompletely defined, and optimal management of children with suspected nodules is debated.
Sex variability of fine-needle aspiration reliability in the diagnosis of malignancy in thyroid nodules ≥4 cm.	The effect of sex on fine-needle aspiration (FNA) diagnosis of thyroid cancer remains unknown. This study determines the reliability of FNA when evaluating thyroid nodules ≥4 cm in women and men.
Is 18F-FDG PET/CT useful for distinguishing between primary thyroid lymphoma and chronic thyroiditis?	This study aims to investigate the usefulness of (18)F-FDG PET/CT for distinguishing between primary thyroid lymphoma (PTL) and chronic thyroiditis.
Status of iodine deficiency in district Kangra, Himachal Pradesh after 60 years of salt iodization.	District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh(HP), India is a known endemic area for iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) since 1956. The present study was conducted in district Kangra, Himachal Pradesh with the objective to assess the prevalence of iodine deficiency in school-age children.
Risk of thyroid cancer based on thyroid ultrasound imaging characteristics: results of a population-based study.	There is wide variation in the management of thyroid nodules identified on ultrasound imaging.
Targeted next-generation sequencing panel (ThyroSeq) for detection of mutations in thyroid cancer.	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) allows for high-throughput sequencing analysis of large regions of the human genome. We explored the use of targeted NGS for simultaneous testing for multiple mutations in thyroid cancer.
Hyperthyroid state or in vitro thyroxine treatment modulates TH1/TH2 responses during exposure to HSV-1 antigens.	Increasingly in recent years, thyroid hormones (THs) have been considered to be important regulators of the immune system. However, their roles in host defense against viral infections are not clearly established. Therefore, this study was undertaken to examine proliferative activity and cytokine production by lymphocytes isolated from hyperthyroid and euthyroid Balb/c mice in response to herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1). Lymphocytes of hyperthyroid animals showed a significantly higher rate of proliferation and interferon (IFN)-γ production when compared with that by lymphocytes from euthyroid mice. In vitro thyroxine (T4) treatment was similarly effective in the potentiation of proliferation, but not IFNγ production, by euthyroid lymphocytes. Furthermore, the hyperthyroid state significantly attenuated ConA-, but not HSV-1-, induced interleukin (IL)-10 release; in vitro T4 treatment synergized this effect. These findings suggest that supra-physiologic TH levels (i.e. as occur in hyper-thyroid states) or in vitro TH treatment modulate T-helper (TH)1/TH2 lymphocyte responses and thereby amplifies host defenses against viral infections. One may also conclude that THs may have a potential application in viral immunization and/or treatment of viral infections.
Cowden syndrome and the PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome: systematic review and revised diagnostic criteria.	PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS) refers to a spectrum of disorders caused by mutations in the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) gene. Diagnostic criteria for Cowden syndrome, the principal PTEN-related disorder, were first established in 1996 before the identification of the PTEN gene and the ability to molecularly confirm a clinical diagnosis. These consortium criteria were based on clinical experience and case reports in the existing literature, with their inherent selection biases. Although it was initially reported that approximately 80% of patients with Cowden syndrome had an identifiable germline PTEN mutation, more recent work has shown these diagnostic criteria to be far less specific. In addition, increasing evidence has documented the association of a broader spectrum of clinical features with PTEN mutations. Our goal was to develop revised, evidence-based diagnostic criteria and to include features of the broader spectrum of PTEN-related clinical syndromes.
Implementation of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: observations from the 2011 thyroid supplemental questionnaire of the College of American Pathologists.	Although information about the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology (TBSRTC) has been widely disseminated since its inception in 2007, the extent of its implementation and impact on daily practice has not been formally evaluated.
Thyroid fine-needle aspiration reporting rates and outcomes before and after Bethesda implementation within a combined academic and community hospital system.	The current study compares data from our hospital system before and after the 2008 implementation of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytology (BSRTC).
Minimally invasive follicular thyroid cancer (MIFTC)--a consensus report of the European Society of Endocrine Surgeons (ESES).	This paper aims to review controversies in the management of minimally invasive follicular thyroid carcinoma (MIFTC) and to reach an evidence-based consensus.
Expression profile of endothelin 1 and its receptor endothelin receptor A in papillary thyroid carcinoma and their correlations with clinicopathologic characteristics.	The endothelin axis is a group of signaling molecules and their receptors that have been implicated in vascularization of cancers, with their expression being observed to change in different cancer types. In this research, we examined the expression of endothelin 1 and endothelin receptor A at the protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in 123 papillary thyroid carcinomas and 40 matched lymph nodes with metastatic papillary thyroid carcinomas. We found altered endothelin axis mRNA expression in several clinicopathologic parameters with increased endothelin 1 expression in thyroid papillary carcinoma showing stromal calcification, cancers in men, and primary cancers with lymph node metastases. Increased endothelin receptor A mRNA expression was noted in the larger cancers. There is a significant correlation between expression of endothelin receptor A and endothelin 1 in papillary thyroid carcinoma. Both endothelin receptor A and endothelin 1 mRNA expressions were significantly higher in metastatic carcinoma in the lymph node than in primary thyroid cancer. The metastatic carcinoma in the lymph node had increased expression compared with matched primary thyroid carcinoma. Expressions of endothelin 1 and endothelin receptor A were also documented as being high at the protein level. Our results indicate that in thyroid cancer, endothelin 1 and endothelin receptor A are associated with growth in advanced stages and lymph node metastases, likely through known angiogenic linkages. Targeting the endothelin axis may be useful in planning angiogenesis therapy for thyroid cancer. 
Distinctive renal cell tumor simulating atrophic kidney with 2 types of microcalcifications. Report of 3 cases.	We report 3 cases of primary renal cell tumor simulating atrophic kidney with distinct gross, morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic features. The tumors were retrieved out of more than 17 000 renal tumors from the Plzen Tumor Registry. Tissues for light microscopy had been fixed, embedded, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin using routine procedures. The tumors were further analyzed using immunohistochemistry, array comparative genomic hybridization, and human androgen receptor. Analyses of VHL gene and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) 3p were also performed. The patients were 2 women and 1 man, with ages ranging from 29 to 35 years (mean, 31.3 years). Grossly, the neoplasms were encapsulated and round with largest diameter of 3.5 cm (mean, 3.2 cm). Follow-up available for all patients ranged from 2 to 14 years (mean, 8 years). No aggressive behavior was noted. Histologically, akin to atrophic (postpyelonephritic) kidney parenchyma, the tumors were composed of follicles of varying sizes that were filled by eosinophilic secretion. Rare areas contained collapsed follicles. Each follicle was endowed with a small capillary. The stroma was loose, inconspicuous, and focally fibrotic. Two types of calcifications were noted: typical psammoma bodies and amorphous dark-blue stained calcified deposits. Immunohistochemically, tumors were strongly positive for cytokeratins (OSCAR), CD10, and vimentin, with weak immunopositivity for CAM5.2 and AE1-AE3. WT1 and cathepsin K were weakly to moderately focally to diffusely positive. Tumors were negative for cytokeratin 20, carbonic anhydrase IX, parvalbumin, HMB45, TTF1, TFE3, chromogranin A, thyroglobulin, PAX8, and ALK. Only 1 case was suitable for molecular genetic analyses. No mutations were found in the VHL gene; no methylation of VHL promoter was noted. No numerical aberrations were found by array comparative genomic hybridization analysis. LOH for chromosome 3p was not detected. Analysis of clonality (human androgen receptor) revealed the monoclonal nature of the tumor. We describe an unknown tumor of the kidney that (1) resembles renal atrophic kidney or nodular goiter of thyroidal gland; (2) contains a leiomyomatous capsule and 2 types of calcifications; (3) lacks mitoses, atypias, necroses, and hemorrhages and nearly lack Ki-67 positivity; and (4) so far showed benign biological behavior. 
Diagnosis of endocrine disease: thyroid ultrasound (US) and US-assisted procedures: from the shadows into an array of applications.	In patients with thyroid nodules, ultrasound (US) imaging represents an indispensable tool for assessment of the risk of malignancy. Over approximately four decades, innovative technology and successive improvements have facilitated its entry into the routine management and greatly improved its predictive value. When US features cannot reliably rule out thyroid cancer, US guidance allows a correct and safe sampling also of small or deeply located thyroid lesions. Obtained in this way, cytological or microhistological specimens may reliably define the nature of most thyroid nodules, and the information from histochemical or molecular markers shows promise in the classification of the remaining indeterminate cases. While a prompt surgical treatment can be offered in the minority of suspicious or definitely malignant cases, most individuals warrant only a follow-up. However, at initial evaluation, or over the years, a fraction of these benign lesions may grow and/or become symptomatic. Such cases may benefit from US-guided minimally invasive procedures as an alternative to surgery. Image-guided percutaneous treatments most often achieve relief of neck complaints, are inexpensive, and can be performed on an outpatient basis. The risk of major complications, after adequate training, is very low. Importantly, thyroid function is preserved. Currently, percutaneous ethanol injection for cystic lesions and thermal ablation, with laser or radiofrequency, for solid nodules are increasingly used and disseminated beyond the initial core facilities. In centres with expertise and high patient volume, their use should be considered as first-line treatment alternatives to surgery for selected patients with benign enlarging or symptomatic thyroid lesions. 
Abnormal liver function test in hydatidiform moles: a retrospective study comparing the hyperthyroid state and the euthyroid state.	The effect of a hyperthyroid or euthyroid state on liver function tests in patients with hydatidiform moles (HM) is not known. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of hyperthyroidism on liver transaminases in HM.
Surgeon-driven thyroid interrogation of patients presenting with primary hyperparathyroidism.	Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is an increasingly prevalent disease affecting all age groups. The authors sought to determine the impact of a "thyroid interrogation" practice protocol on the surgical treatment of patients with the diagnosis of pHPT referred to a single surgeon.
Evaluation of TSH-receptor antibodies as prognostic markers after cessation of antithyroid drug treatment in patients with Graves' disease.	Clinical usefulness of thyroid-stimulating antibodies (TSab) and TSH-binding inhibitor immunoglobulins (TBII) for predicting the prognosis in patients with Graves' disease after cessation of antithyroid drug treatment was evaluated, and compared with that of T3 suppression test and goitre size. Among 46 patients who had been euthyroid on a maintenance dose of antithyroid drugs for at least one year and had discontinued taking medicine, 16 relapsed within one year (group 1), 7 relapsed later than 1 year (group 2), and 23 patients remained in remission for more than 1 year (group 3). Incidence of TSab, TBII, T3 nonsuppressibility and large goitre (transverse diameter longer than means of the values for the 46 patients: greater than or equal to 4.36 cm in females; greater than or equal to 4.74 cm in males) determined at the time of discontinuation of treatment was 87.5% (14/16), 56.3% (9/16), 78.6% (11/14) and 81.3% (13/16) in group 1; 66.7% (4/6), 28.6% (2/7), 50.0% (3/6), and 57.1% (4/7) in group 2, and 56.5% (13/23), 24.1% (5/23), 35.7% (8/23), and 26.1% (6/23) in group 3, respectively. All relapsed patients showed remarkable increases in both TSab and TBII activities at the time of relapse. High incidence of TSab in patients remaining in remission suggests that a reduced functional reserve of the thyroid, probably owing to destructive changes and/or shrinkage of the gland, may cause impaired responses to TSab and is involved in the cause of remission. Development of blocking type of TBII was not considered to be a cause of remission. Remission was predictable in all patients with any two of the indices such as negative TSab, positive T3 suppressibility, and small goitre.
Meningioma like tumour of thyroid: a rare variant of follicular adenoma.	Spindle cell lesions of thyroid are uncommon. Meningioma like tumour of thyroid is a rare variant of follicular adenoma, which can easily be misdiagnosed. One such case is being reported here with detailed histological, histochemical and immunohistochemical findings.
All-trans-retinoic acid promotes iodine uptake via up- regulating the sodium iodide symporter in medullary thyroid cancer stem cells.	Recently, the main therapy of medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is surgical, but by which way there is a poor prognosis with a mean survival of only 5 years. In some cases, some researchers found that it is the medullary thyroid cancer stem cells (MTCSCs) that cause metastasis and recurrence. This study aimed to eradicate MTCSCs through administration of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). Here we demonstrate that MTCSCs possess stem- like properties in serum-free medium. The ABCG2, OCT4 and sodium iodide symporter (NIS) were changed by ATRA. Additionally, we found that ATRA can increase the expression of NIS in vivo. All the data suggested that ATRA could increase the iodine uptake of MTCSCs through NIS. 
Fine needle aspiration cytology of metastatic sarcoma involving the thyroid.	We have presented two cases of sarcoma, namely malignant fibrous histiocytoma and leiomyosarcoma, metastatic to the thyroid. Both were diagnosed clinically by fine needle aspiration cytology.
An experimental study of spontaneously diabetic Bio Breeding/Worcester (BB/W) rats--with special references to the rat MHC (RT1) in the development of the disease]	The role of rat MHC (RT1) in the development of diabetes mellitus was studied on the Bio Breeding/Worcester (BB/W) rat, an experimental model animal for human juvenile onset (Insulin-dependent, Type 1) diabetes mellitus. The rate of the development of diabetes mellitus was as follows; 35/45 (77.8%) in inbred BB/W rats (u/u haplotype), and 5/397 (1.7%) in F2 rats. Histopathological examinations demonstrated that there were lymphocytic thyroiditis, T cell depletion in the spleen and in the lymph nodes, and extramedullary hematopoiesis, in addition to typical lymphocytic insulitis in the pancreas. Immunohistochemically, the expression of class II antigens in the pancreas was shown to be highly concerned with the histopathological changes and the clinical onset of the diabetes mellitus. Analysis of subsets of infiltrating cells demonstrated that macrophages appeared in the pancreas prior to the onset of the disease. And it was suggested that the infiltrated OX 6+ macrophages functioned as antigen presenting cells, leading to expression of the class II antigens on the surface of islet cells, and finally caused severe lymphocytic insulitis. However, BB/W rats showed complete negative immunohistochemical stainings with a monoclonal antibody HOK 2B, which stained other rat strains carrying RT1u class II antigen (TO, SDJ). Moreover, differences in blocking effect of HOK 2B were found on mixed lymphocyte reactions (MLR) between BB/W and other strains with RT1u haplotype. These findings raise the possibility that minor heterogeneities exist in the structure of class II molecules in RT1u rats including BB/W, which might be closely related to the onset of the disease.
Age related correlation between serum TSH and thyroid C cell hyperplasia in Long-Evans rats.	The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether there is a correlation between the serum levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), parafollicular cell (C) population in the thyroid and calcitonin (CT) secretion in aging Long-Evans (L-E) rats. Serum TSH and CT values were determined in 50 male rats at ages 2, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months and 50 female rats at 18, 21 and 24 months. The animals were sacrificed at the end of the experiment to evaluate thyroid C cell pathology. Male rats showed an increase in the serum TSH values at 6 and 12 months of age, a decline at 18 months and a significant increase from 18 to 24 months of age. In female rats, a significant increase in serum TSH concentration was also noted from 18 to 24 months of age. In both sexes, 24 month old animals with thyroid C cell hyperplasia (CH+ group) had a significantly higher level of serum TSH as compared to animals with normal distribution of C cells (CH- group). Concentration of serum CT showed a progressive increase with age in both sexes. Male rats with thyroid C cell pathology had significantly higher levels of serum CT at 24 months of age as compared to rats with normal C cell distribution. In female rats, however, serum CT concentrations in two groups were not statistically significant. We conclude from these studies that in aged L-E rats, serum TSH concentration has an influence on thyroid C cell population.
Clinical evaluation of surgical treatment of Graves' disease]	Five hundred and thirteen surgical patients with Graves' disease from 1970 to 1983 were subjected to this study. They were divided into three groups by period in which operation was performed; 1st period from 1970 to 1974, 2nd from 1975 to 1979, and 3rd from 1980 to 1983. Postoperative thyroid function was evaluated. The weight of remnant thyroid was the greatest in the first period and the smallest in the third. There were no differences of frequency of postoperative complications among these periods in spite of remarkable decrease of weight of remnant thyroid tissue in the third period. Remission of thyroid function, was most frequently observed in the group of the remnant thyroid weight from 4 to 8 grams. Recurrence of hyperthyroidism was frequently observed in the group of the greatest weight of remnant thyroid and hypothyroid state was frequently observed in the group of the smallest remnant thyroid. These results indicate that the remnant thyroid weight may be one of the most crucial factors which influence on the postoperative functional state of patients with Graves' disease, and remnant thyroid tissue weighing from 4 to 8 grams may be the most appropriate in subtotal thyroidectomy.
Endocrine localization of Hodgkin's disease]	Among 130 patients with Hodgkin's disease hospitalized for a 13 year period were established two cases of primary extranodular localization in the thyroid gland and an extremely rare case of affection of the neurohypophysis as a manifestation of hematogenous dissemination. The clinical manifestations, therapeutic approach and the effect of the endocrine localization on the survival of the patients are presented. The prognosis was comparatively good in the patients with thyroid localization but in the patients with hypophyseal localization it was unfavourable. The diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities in Hodgkin's disease with endocrine localization are discussed.
High frequency of cancer in cold thyroid nodules occurring at young age.	In order to evaluate the risk of malignancy of cold thyroid nodules occurring in young as compared with adult patients, we studied a consecutive series of 2327 patients with a solitary cold thyroid nodule over a 6-year period. None of these patients had been previously irradiated in the neck or head. Fine needle aspiration of the nodule and cytologic examination were carried out in all patients and, on the basis of this evaluation and clinical examination 391 patients were selected for surgery; 109 patients were 4-20 years old and 2218 patients were older than 20 years. Malignancy was found in 11 (10.1%) and in 112 (5.0%) of cold thyroid nodules occurring in young and adult patients, respectively. The annual incidence of cold thyroid nodules in the population of the area studied was 5.2 vs 55.9 (per 10(5) inhabitants) in the young and in the adult group, respectively, and the annual incidence of thyroid cancer was 0.53 vs 2.82 (per 10(5) inhabitants) in the young and in the adult patients, respectively. The present study indicates, therefore, that in the absence of head or neck irradiation, cold thyroid nodules are much less frequent in young age, but that the malignancy rate of cold nodules occurring in young patients is 2-fold higher than in adults patients.
Preparation of histotopographic goiter sections and endometrium scrapes for relevant instant diagnosis]	Histotopographic examinations of goiters and scrapes taken as a whole are valuable to the emergency pathomorphological diagnosis of thyroid and endometrial diseases essential particularly for the differentiation of adenomas and well differentiated carcinomas. The examination can be carried out only by treating fresh, non-fixed materials with a deeply cooling knife of the routine cold microtome (Model X). Harris' or Ballard's hematoxylins are best used as elective dyes. The whole instant diagnosis fully described in the paper lasts 8 to 12 minutes.
The black thyroid: an unusual finding during neck exploration.	Black thyroid discolouration has been reported in post-mortem examinations on patients who have previously taken minocycline. The discovery of this phenomenon during neck exploration and a review of the possible mechanism of black thyroid discolouration are discussed in this paper.
Benign metastases from thyroid malignancies.	Two patients harbouring cervical lymph node metastases from papillary carcinoma of the thyroid have remained free of symptoms after treatment with suppressive doses of thyroid hormone for 25 and 34 years, respectively. There is evidence that these local metastases are relatively innocuous and may even exert a protective effect in the course of this low-grade malignancy. It is suggested that currently accepted modes of treatment may be unnecessarily invasive and should be reassessed.
Sonographic guidance of thyroid needle biopsy.	We describe a new technique for sonographically guided needle biopsy of the thyroid using high-resolution real-time ultrasound. It proved to be highly effective for obtaining diagnostic samples from thyroid nodules in 13 of 14 patients who otherwise could not have a diagnostic thyroid aspiration because their nodules were in difficult locations or were not palpable. We believe that sonographic guidance will be important to those physicians employing thyroid needle biopsy.
Effects of castration before and after treatment with N-bis (2-hydroxypropyl)-nitrosamine (DHPN) on the development of thyroid tumors in rats treated with DHPN followed by phenobarbital.	The effect of castration on the development of thyroid tumors was studied histologically and biochemically in Wistar rats given a single ip injection of 210 mg of N-bis (2-hydroxypropyl)-nitrosamine (DHPN) followed by phenobarbital (Pb). Castration was performed one week after, or one week before the injection of DHPN. The injection of DHPN was given at the end of the first week, and the rats were fed 500 ppm Pb in the basal diet for 38 weeks from week 3 to week 40. The incidence of thyroid adenomas and cancers was 20% (4/20) and 10% (2/20) in rats treated with DHPN alone. It was 75% (15/20) and 40% (8/20) in rats treated with DHPN and Pb; 30% (6/20) and 15% (3/20) in rats treated with DHPN and Pb, and castrated after DHPN; 20% (4/20) and 0% in rats treated with DHPN and Pb, and castrated before DHPN and Pb; and 0% and 0% in rats castrated either before or after receiving DHPN. Castration thus inhibited the development of thyroid tumor in rats treated with DHPN. The inhibition of tumor development in rats treated with DHPN and Pb, and castrated before receiving DHPN, was greater than in the rats castrated after receiving DHPN. Castration inhibited the secretion of TSH in rats treated with DHPN and Pb.
IgG-kappa-producing primary plasmacytoma of the thyroid gland with preoperative serum M protein.	A case of primary plasmacytoma of the thyroid gland which occurred in a 63-year-old woman is reported. Histologic and ultramicroscopic examination revealed that the excised thyroid tumor was plasmacytoma superimposed on lymphocytic thyroiditis. Immunohistological study showed that the tumor cells produced intracytoplasmic immunoglobulin (IgG-kappa). Electrophoretic and immunoelectrophoretic studies disclosed the presence of monoclonal immunoglobulin (IgG-kappa) in samples of the patient's serum which had been obtained preoperatively. After completion of irradiation therapy to the neck following tumor removal, the serum monoclonal immunoglobulin disappeared. The patient is currently alive and well without any evidence of the tumor three years after surgery.
Imaging procedures in the diagnosis of thyroid diseases]	The image-producing examination techniques used in the morphological diagnostics of the thyroid gland are demonstrated. Their application must deliberately be done dependent upon the clinical findings and the therapeutic questioning. For the various thyropathies in this sense a diagnostic step programme is reported with the aim of a rational application of the individual techniques. These are conventional x-ray diagnostics, computed tomography, ultrasound tomography, scintigraphy (fluorescence scintigraphy), fine needle aspiration biopsy and cytology. Most frequently a combination of ultrasound and scan is recommended for the combined assessment of morphology and function.
Thyroid diseases in advanced age]	Nearly all diseases of the thyroid, such as nodular goitre, thyroid carcinoma, non-immunogenic hyperthyroidism and idiopathic hypothyroidism, exhibit an increase in frequency with age. Their recognition is rendered more difficult by the often oligosymptomatic, ambiguous clinical picture, but it is the timely treatment that is of particular prognostic importance to an organism weakened due to polymorbidity. In all hard nodular alterations, a malignoma must be ruled out by sonography, scintigraphy and cytopuncture. In all iodine-deficient regions such as the GDR, a frequent occurrence of thyroid autonomy with manifestation of hyperthyroidism following iodine contamination has to be taken into account. Hypothyroidism is often misinterpreted as age-related changes. By employing adequately modern in vitro methods and imaging procedures it will be possible to further improve diagnosis and prognosis of the thyreopathy in the old age ranges.
Hyperparathyroidism in a pregnant woman with previous thyroid carcinoma. Case report and review of the literature.	A 29 year old woman, primipara, at 26 weeks' gestation had been undergone, five years before, a total thyroidectomy owing to a mixed papillary-follicular carcinoma of thyroid. After thyroidectomy the patient was placed on suppressive thyroxine treatment. Since she was 22 years old she suffered from recurrent renal colics and cholelithiasis. For these reasons she underwent, at the age of 27, an operation to remove bilateral renal calculi and a cholecystectomy owing to gall-stones. During her pregnancy biochemical determinations revealed slight and persistent hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, elevated urine calcium besides elevated serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. Thus a diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism was taken into consideration. It was considered, but temporarily delayed, the surgical exploration of the neck. A strict clinic overseeing of the patient, which allowed her to carry out the pregnancy happily, was undertaken. Any thyroid carcinoma repercussion on pregnancy was not noted. A left inferior parathyroid adenoma was removed five months after the woman's delivery. The child psychosomatic development, at one year of age, was absolutely normal. A review of the literature indicates that when a pregnancy is complicated by hyperparathyroidism its prognosis is improved by parathyroidectomy, if possible during the second trimester. In patients with asymptomatic hypercalcemia and/or in late pregnancy surgical treatment may be postponed until after delivery. It is also demonstrated that thyroid carcinoma is not aggravated by pregnancy and that the latter can develop without any worry for mother and fetus.
Suppressive therapy with levothyroxine for solitary thyroid nodules. A double-blind controlled clinical study.	Thyroid nodules are present in up to 50 percent of adults in the fifth decade of life. Patients are often treated with thyroxine in order to reduce the size of the nodule, but the efficacy of thyrotropin-suppressive therapy with thyroxine remains uncertain. In this study, 53 patients with a colloid solitary thyroid nodule confirmed by biopsy were randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to receive placebo (n = 25) or levothyroxine (n = 28) for six months. Before treatment, pertechnetate-99m thyroid scanning showed that 22 percent of the nodules were functional, 25 percent hypofunctional, and 53 percent nonfunctional. High-resolution (10-MHz) sonography was used to measure the size of the nodules before and after treatment. Suppression of thyrotropin release was confirmed in the levothyroxine-treated group by the administration of thyrotropin-releasing hormone; thyrotropin release was normal in the placebo group. Six months of therapy did not significantly decrease the diameter or volume of the nodules in the levothyroxine group as compared with the placebo group. We conclude that the efficacy of levothyroxine therapy in reducing the size of colloid thyroid nodules is not apparent within six months, despite effective suppression of thyrotropin.
Frozen section diagnosis and the thyroid.	The diagnostic problems arising from frozen section evaluation of thyroid lesions are complex and beclouded in controversy. Prime examples include follicular and Hurthle cell neoplasms, both of which lack standardization in classification and management. The seemingly straightforward identification of papillary carcinoma is often complicated by the frequent absence of its distinguishing features, some of which are reportedly restricted to formalin-fixed paraffin embedded material. Thyroiditides and thyroidal ectopias present unique and separate differential diagnostic considerations that at the time of frozen section may pose problems for surgeon and pathologist alike. These issues and their controversial aspects are addressed, and potential diagnostic pitfalls related to frozen section diagnosis of thyroid lesions in general are outlined. An analysis of 300 thyroid frozen sections over a 5-year period and the histologic frozen section features of 40 papillary thyroid carcinomas are also presented. The presence of optically clear nuclei was identified in frozen sections from 15 cases, and was extensive in one. Thirty-eight of 40 cases displayed optically clear nuclei within permanent sections. It is suggested that this cytologic feature is not the exclusive domain of permanent section, and when present in the frozen section may be helpful in identifying papillary carcinoma, especially when an obvious papillary component is lacking.
Reproduction study of toxaphene in the rat.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate in rats the reproductive effects of toxaphene, an insecticidal mixture which has been identified as a pollutant in the Great Lakes ecosystem. Groups of 30 female and 15 male weanling rats were given toxaphene in the diets at 0, 4.0, 20, 100 or 500 ppm in a 1 generation 2 litter reproduction study. Toxaphene treatment at the levels studied had no effects on the litter size, pup weight, fertility, or gestation and survival indices. Toxic effects in the parental rats included depressed weight gain, elevated serum cholesterol, and increased liver and kidney weight and hepatic microsomal enzyme activities. Most of these effects were associated only with 500 ppm toxaphene treatment. Treatment-related histological changes in the liver, thyroid and kidney of adult rats were observed at levels as low as 20 ppm. Based on the data presented, the no observable adverse effect dose of toxaphene was considered to be 4.0 ppm in the diet (0.29-0.38 mg/kg b.w./day depending on the amount of dietary intake).
Effect of chronic experimental Trypanosoma congolense infection on the ovaries, pituitary, thyroid and adrenal glands in female goats.	Changes in the ovaries, pituitary, thyroid and adrenal glands in Small East African normally cycling female goats chronically infected with Trypanosoma congolense are described. Marked fibrosis of the ovaries, a decrease in the number of primordial and primary follicles and atresia of growing follicles at the tertiary stage resulting in lack of corpora lutea were observed. The pituitary glands revealed reduced degranulation of the basophils and slight hypertrophy of the acidophils. The thyroids were extensively degenerated and atrophied whereas the adrenal cortices were markedly hypertrophied in some regions and atrophied in others. It is concluded that chronic trypanosomiasis causes marked reproductive lesions in females comparable to those previously described in male animals.
Technic of fine needle aspiration cytology of the thyroid gland: coagulation inhibiting and stabilizing additives]	In the fine needle aspiration cytology of the thyroid gland by the moistening of cannule and syringe with heparin or citric sodium rather disadvantages for the evaluation are the result. Artificial changes are most clearly to be seen in heparin. ACD-buffer does indeed not bring about any artefacts, does, however, also not show any provable advantages. In the fine needle biopsy the additives mentioned are entirely avoidable.
Occult carcinomas of the thyroid. Evaluation of 1,020 sequential autopsies.	In a sequence of 1,020 autopsies, all thyroid glands were thoroughly examined during a two-year period. Fifty-seven percent of the thyroid glands had no gross or histologic changes; approximately 22% were more or less goitrous. In 63 of 1,020 (6.2%) thyroid glands, a clinically latent carcinoma was detected. The greatest diameter of tumors measured microscopically ranged between 0.5 and 10.5 mm. Sixty-nine percent of the carcinomas were found by excision of a local change of tissue visible through close examination by the naked eye. All but one carcinoma were of papillary type, the one exception being a C-cell carcinoma. Multicentricity was found in 46% and regional lymph node metastases in 14%. There was no significant predilection of sex or age. It was concluded that these tumors have no propensity to increase to a clinically apparent thyroid disease.
Possibility of the neoplastic transformation of thyroid gland cells in the graft vs host reaction]	The experiments were carried out on 60 first generation hybrids. Acute systemic "graft-versus-host" reaction (GVHR) was induced in (CBA X C57B1/6) X 60 X 10(6) hybrids by intravenous administration of spleen cells from C57B1/6 parents. Thyroid glands were examined on the 3rd, 10th and 24th days of GVHR. Chronic GVHR was studied in accordance with routine model. (C57B1/6 X DBA/2) hybrids were given 50 X 10(6) spleen cells from DBA/2 parents. Thyroid glands were investigated 6 months after GVHR induction. On the 10th day of GVHR histological examination revealed that follicular-like adenoma tumours with pronounced cellular abnormalities tended to appear in thyroid gland. In a chronic form of GVHR the histological pattern corresponds to that of follicular cancer.
Computed tomography in amyloid goiter.	Two cases of amyloid goiter showed diffuse decreased density of enlarged thyroid on CT. The diffuse decreased density of amyloid goiter on CT is thought to represent large amount of adipose tissue often found in amyloid goiter. When diffuse decreased density of the enlarged thyroid is recognized on CT, amyloid goiter should enter into differential diagnosis.
Ultrastructural aspects of the goiter in cog/cog mice.	Thyroids of congenitally goitrous (cog/cog) mice were studied with light and electron microscopy. The principal alteration in follicular cells was their largely overdistended rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER). Our findings resemble the ultrastructural features of human hypothyroid goiter caused by a thyroglobulin (TG) defect and thus support the previously suggested abnormalities of TG synthesis and/or processing in cog/cog mice.
Naturally occurring lesions in some endocrine glands of laboratory maintained baboons (Papio sp.).	The pituitary gland was examined from 623 immature baboons (Papio cynocephalus and Papio anubis). Findings included microscopic cysts in the pars distalis (132), pars intermedia (two) and pars nervosa (one). In 641 necropsies five cases of unilateral thyroid glands were noted. Microscopic thyroid lesions included ectopic thymus (328), minor lymphocytic infiltrates (14) and cysts (two). Parathyroid lesions consisted of ectopic thymus (73) and cysts (24). Dilated capillaries in the islets of Langerhans was the only microscopic change seen in the endocrine pancreas. All lesions generally occurred in both untreated control and treated baboons at similar incidences. They were considered to be naturally occurring, a part of the "background" pathology of these endocrine glands in immature baboons.
Thyroid size and goitre frequency in hyperthyroidism.	Thyroid function, the clinical occurrence of goitre and thyroid gland volume, ultrasonically determined, were investigated in 310 consecutive untreated patients with hyperthyroidism. Of 173 patients with Graves' disease (39%), 67 had no goitre, while 53 patients (31%) had a normal thyroid volume. Twenty-three of 91 patients with multinodular glands (25%) had no goitre and ten patients (11%) had a normal thyroid volume. Of 46 patients with solitary autonomous nodules (7%), three had no goitre while six (13%) had a normal thyroid volume. Out of all the hyperthyroid patients (30%), 93 had no clinically detectable goitre, and 69 (22%) had a normal thyroid volume. The lack of a goitre in a large portion of patients with hyperthyroidism could be responsible for delayed diagnosis and subsequent treatment of these patients.
Morphologic relationships between thyroid carcinoma and associated thyroid lesions in thyroidectomized patients. Comparison between 60 malignancies and 40 non-malignant goiters.	Given the endemic goiter in Romania, the authors sought to evaluate the morphologic prognostic factors with histogenetic implications in the development of thyroid cancer. On this purpose, the morphologic factors that correlate the type of thyroid cancer to the host stromal alterations were studied on 3 groups of 20 patients each and 2 control lots for multinodular goiter and nodular goiter. One group consisted of cases of thyroid carcinoma associated with endemic goiter, the second group included cases of thyroid carcinoma with thyroiditis and nodular goiter and the third group, the cases of thyroid sclerosing occult carcinoma. The study showed in all the cases, that thyroid cancer evoluates as an autonomic lesion, independent of the endemic goiter which is not a risk factor.
Accuracy and significance of fine-needle aspiration and frozen section in determining the extent of thyroid resection.	The records of 46 patients were retrospectively reviewed to determine the accuracy and significance of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and intraoperative frozen section (FS) in planning the extent of thyroid resection. For all 46 patients, both FNA and FS diagnoses were available for comparison with the final pathologic diagnosis. The sensitivity value for detection of malignancy by means of FNA was 90% compared with 60% by means of FS, although FS diagnoses were more specific (97%) than FNA diagnoses (56%). FNA diagnoses of benign conditions were correct in 20 of 21 (95%) patients. FS diagnoses of benign conditions were correct in 19 of these 21 patients (90%) but, more important, it did not alter the extent of resection or improve the accuracy of diagnosis. Five patients had findings at FNAs that were positive for malignancy. Frozen section confirmed this diagnosis in all five patients but, again, did not alter the extent of resection. Twenty patients had FNA findings that were "suspicious" for malignancy, with 12 of the tumors diagnosed as benign on FS and only one of four (25%) papillary carcinomas diagnosed as positive on FS. Only four of 20 (20%) FNA results that were "suspicious"--but not diagnosed as malignant--were confirmed as malignant on permanent section, whereas 70% of the FS diagnoses were correct in these 20 patients. Overall, only 16 of 46 (35%) FS diagnoses were helpful in determining the extent of thyroid resection. If a diagnosis of a benign or definitely malignant condition has been made by means of FNA preoperatively, FNA alone provides sufficient information for determining the extent of thyroid resection. Frozen section may be helpful if FNA results are suspicious, but it does not have sufficient sensitivity for determining the extent of resection, which should be deferred until permanent sections have been analyzed.
Separation and analysis of mononuclear cells infiltrating the thyroid of patients with Graves' disease.	A simple method was established for separating lymphocytes infiltrating the thyroid from thyroid epithelial cells. Namely, suspensions of minced thyroid from patients with Graves' disease were layered on a Percoll two-step density gradient (p = 1.050 and 1.077 g/ml) and centrifuged (400g, 30 min, 4 degrees C). In this way 0.1-18 X 10(5) lymphocytes/g of thyroid tissue with a purity of 65-95% were obtained. Thyroid lymphocytes were analyzed quantitatively with monoclonal antibodies by laser flow cytometry and compared with peripheral lymphocytes. The proportion of OKT3+ cells was decreased with increase in OKIa+ cells. The percentage of OKIa+ cells was significantly correlated with that of Leu12+ cells. The percentages of OKT4+ cells and OKIa+ cells were higher when analyzed with an extended gate window, which was arranged for detection of activated, large-sized lymphocytes. The percentages of OKT8+ and Leu7+ cells were not significantly different from those in peripheral blood. From these results it was concluded that the proportion of B lymphocytes is increased and that of T lymphocytes is decreased, the proportion of activated B lymphocytes is increased, some helper/inducer T cells are activated in the thyroid gland in Graves' disease, and these activated lymphocytes may be important in local production of antithyroid autoantibodies.
Morphometric analysis of thyroid cell aspirates.	One hundred and nineteen patients with thyroid nodules underwent fine needle aspiration cytology. Fifty eight were subsequently shown to have multinodular goitre: 36 had a follicular adenoma; 12 follicular carcinoma; and 13 papillary carcinoma on paraffin section. Morphometry performed on the aspirated cells stained by Papanicolaou and Giemsa methods showed significant differences in mean nuclear area and nuclear perimeter between groups of patients with benign thyroid nodules and those with malignant nodules. The wide variation in the mean nuclear areas and perimeters, however, severely limits the diagnostic use of morphometry in individual aspirates.
Thyroid function, energy balance, body composition and organ growth in protein-deficient chicks.	Protein-deficient diets (17, 10, 6.5 or 3% protein) and a 24% control diet were fed to growing chicks. A control group was pair-fed daily with each deficient group. Energy intake was lower in the 6.5 and 3% protein groups than in the other groups. However, weight gain, bone growth and feed conversion efficiency were lower with 10% protein or less. Relative thyroid weights were unaffected by dietary protein. Plasma T3 (3,5,3'-triiodothyronine) levels were significantly higher in all deficient groups, whereas plasma T4 (thyroxine) was lower. Plasma rT3 (reverse T3) was unaffected by the protein deficiencies, suggesting that enhanced conversion of T4 to T3 rather than to rT3 had occurred. Hepatic alpha-glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (alpha-GP) shuttle activity increased markedly in protein-deficient chicks. Efficiency of energy utilization was unaltered in chicks fed 17 or 10% protein but was higher in chicks fed 6.5 and 3% protein than in controls. All deficient chicks had more fat and less protein and water in the tissues. The lower feed conversion efficiency therefore represents almost entirely a shift in body composition toward fat and does not reflect a loss of energy as heat. We conclude that elevations in plasma T3 and in thyroid-controlled alpha-GP shuttle activity, although sensitive indicators of protein deficiencies, are not good predictors of altered thermogenic activity in protein-deficient chicks.
Resistance to the effects of thyroid hormone in children.	We have described three children with serum levels of TSH that are too high for the concomitant serum T4 level. Two of them meet the criteria for combined central and peripheral resistance to thyroid hormone. The third has long-standing central resistance to TSH suppression previously reported in congenital hypothyroidism. The recognition of this syndrome by physicians is important to avoid unnecessary and potentially dangerous treatment.
Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the thyroid gland]	It is reported on a patient with low-malignant primary non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the thyroid gland with hitherto 7-year absence of recidivity after exclusive operative therapy. The course is critically discussed in the light of the literature. Conclusions relate to the diagnostic and therapeutic regimen within clinical treatment, cytology, antibody diagnostics, operation and combined therapy in lymphomas of the thyroid gland and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid. Use in an average health care facility.	Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid is suggested as an initial diagnostic procedure in the evaluation of thyroid nodules. Some proponents of the procedure, however, believe that fine needle aspiration should be restricted to centers in which each operator obtains at least 500 biopsy specimens annually. Reviewed were 155 biopsy specimens obtained over three and one-half years, and the sensitivity of fine needle aspiration was determined to be 100 percent, the specificity to be 47.4 percent, and the accuracy to be 73 percent. A review of the literature revealed the sensitivity in larger series to range between 92 and 98 percent, specificity to range between 52 and 99.5 percent, and accuracy to range between 56.1 and 91.3 percent. The surgical yield of carcinoma was 64 percent in patients evaluated with fine needle aspiration, whereas the yield was 26 percent in those who underwent surgery without fine needle aspiration. These results appear to justify the use of fine needle aspiration in the evaluation of nodular thyroid disease at average-sized health care centers.
Outcome of surgery for Graves' disease re-examined.	The outcome of surgery for Graves' disease in terms of early and late morbidity was studied in 161 patients undergoing subtotal thyroidectomy in the 10-year period 1976-1985. Eighty of these patients had a minimum follow-up of 5 years. There was a low operative morbidity and a zero mortality. The weight of thyroid tissue preserved (in the range 5-10 g) influenced the prevalence of hypothyroidism at one year and at five years. There was a cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism which could not be reliably predicted from biochemical results during the first year. Over 60 per cent of patients with subclinical hypothyroidism at 4 months (63 per cent) or 1 year (70 per cent) did not subsequently need thyroxine replacement within 5 years. Patients remained at risk of developing recurrent toxicity indefinitely and the risk was significantly greater in patients with small goitres (less than 50 g). Our results may be improved by leaving larger remnants (9-10 g) in most patients and smaller remnants (2-4 g) in those with small glands in whom alternative treatment, which is to be preferred, is not acceptable. After subtotal thyroidectomy for Graves' disease lifelong follow-up is necessary.
Cell kinetics of thyroid epithelial cells during hyperplastic goitre involution.	Thyroid epithelial cell kinetics were investigated in rats when a normal iodine diet was re-established after a long period of iodine deficiency supplemented with propylthiouracil (0.15%) for the last 2 months. In the first (prelabelling) experiment, all rats were labelled with a single injection of [3H]thymidine 2 days before iodine refeeding in order to follow the fate of the prelabelled cells. In the second experiment, the pulse-labelling index at the time of killing was measured; for this purpose the rats received [3H]thymidine 1 h before death. In these two experiments autoradiography was performed on histological sections. Thyroids were excised on day 0 and then at various intervals up to day 73 of iodine refeeding. Plasma tri-iodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) were very low until day 4 and then increased to reach control values on day 30. Thyroid concentration of iodide rose to 20 times the value on day 0, remained at this high level until day 2, and then diminished on day 4 to reach the control value on day 16. Plasma TSH concentrations were very high in iodine-deficient rats and did not vary significantly until day 8, when they fell rapidly to reach the control value on day 30. Thyroid weight, raised on day 0, decreased relatively quickly until day 4, then more slowly until day 30. Total thyroid epithelial cell number, high on day 0 (30.7 x 10(6) cells) was constant until day 16, then decreased until day 30 at which time a plateau was reached.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fine needle thyroid aspiration: university hospital experience.	Fine needle thyroid aspiration (FNTA) as a diagnostic tool of thyroid disease was started at the University District Hospital (UDH) in 1983. FNTA was performed in 54 willing patients from December 1984 through December 1985. If no medical contraindications existed, thyroid surgery was recommended in order to assess diagnostic accuracy. Surgery was done in 34 (63%) patients; while not in 20:3 for medical reasons, 2 lost to follow-up, 3 refused, 7 had inappropriate FNTA, and 5 for unknown reasons. None had complications to FNTA. Cytology was classified as Class O: inadequate; Class 1: benign; Class 2: indeterminate; and Class 3: malignant. "Non-benign" cytology was obtained in 14 patients: 7 indeterminate (class 2) and 7 malignant (class 3). Four of these had carcinoma confirmed by surgery. Of the 19 with benign FNTA (class 1) only one has thyroid carcinoma. One patient had inadequate sample (Class O). The sensitivity was 80%, specificity 65%, and diagnostic accuracy 67%. All these statistical values are within the range reported in fifteen reviewed series. Thus, FNTA at UDH had a diagnostic value comparable to that described in the literature. It may be utilized as a safe, reliable tool complementary to clinical data in order to reduce the amount of unnecessary thyroid surgery, carry out earlier diagnoses of malignant nodules and increase the yield of carcinoma among those operated.
Isolated metastasis to small bowel from anaplastic thyroid carcinoma. With a review of extra-abdominal malignancies that spread to the bowel.	Symptomatic involvement of the small bowel by isolated metastasis from an extra-abdominal primary malignancy is rare, most commonly resulting from malignant melanoma and lung cancer. A few other extra-abdominal tumors, not including thyroid cancer, have been documented on rare occasions to present with small-bowel involvement as the first evidence of metastasis. We report a case of anaplastic thyroid carcinoma with isolated symptomatic metastasis to the small intestine. We review the literature regarding the frequency and origin of extra-abdominal malignancies developing small-bowel metastases and the spectrum of clinical manifestations resulting from this syndrome.
Mycosis fungoides of thyroid diagnosed by fine needle aspiration.	Fine needle aspiration of a poorly defined thyroid nodule in a patient with mycosis fungoides revealed convoluted mononuclear cells consistent with involvement by mycosis fungoides. I have briefly reviewed the literature on extracutaneous involvement, and discussed the potential usefulness of fine needle aspiration studies in diagnosing visceral or lymphatic mycosis fungoides.
Thyroid cancer mimicking thyroiditis.	Two patients with thyroid cancer, who presented with clinical and biochemical features of subacute thyroiditis, are reported, Confusion in diagnosis delayed therapy from 3 to 8 months. The relation between thyroiditis and thyroid cancer is discussed.
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid nodules. A diagnostic method that minimizes the need for surgery.	Fine-needle aspiration biopsy is the most accurate and cost-effective method of evaluating thyroid nodules. When an experienced endocrinologist and cytopathologist are available, aspiration biopsy is the diagnostic procedure of choice. In our experience at Straub Clinic and Hospital, Honolulu, it has more than halved the number of operations for suspected thyroid cancer.
Endocrine studies in cystinosis: compensated primary hypothyroidism.	Children with nephropathic cystinosis exhibit marked growth retardation. Improved medical management and renal transplantation have increased their life expectancy beyond the second decade. We have studied endocrine function in seven patients with cystinosis and reviewed autopsy findings of four patients and medical records of 24 others. One 10-year-old boy was overtly hypothyroid. The six other patients had normal studies of peripheral thyroid function but two had borderline and two had frankly elevated serum TSH levels. Stimulation tests of cortisol and growth hormone secretion and basal levels of serum NSILA-s were normal. Postmortem histology of the thyroid glands revealed extensive destruction and infiltration of the epithelium with cystine crystals. Despite the presence of cystine crystals in other endocrine tissues, there was no destruction of epithelium in glands other than in the thyroid. We conclude that in nephropathic cystinosis "compensated" primary hypothyroidism occurs frequently and early and may be diagnosed by measurement of serum TSH concentrations.
Thyroid carcinomas arising in thyroglossal ducts.	Six cases of thyroid carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst are described and combined with previously reported cases to provide a total of 66 cases for retrospective analysis. Most presented as benign thyroglossal duct cyst, and the malignant nature of the lesion was not recognized until the permanent pathology sections were reviewed. Eight of 10 patients with metastatic disease in retrospect had preoperative indications of malignancy as manifest by clinically suspicious nodes or a thyroglossal cyst larger than the mean for the series. The primary cell type in all cases was papillary thyroid carcinoma. Local resection by the Sistrunk method and suppressive doses of thyroid are recommended for the patient with papillary thyroid carcinoma arising in a thyroglossal duct cyst when there is no evidence of extension of the malignancy beyond the confines of the cyst. The patient presenting with metastatic carcinoma should, of course, be treated with appropriate local resection, hormonal manipulation, thyroid ablation, and lymphadenectomy as indicated by his age and sex, the cell type of the tumor, and the extent of local and metastatic disease.
Experimental carcinogenesis in the thyroid follicular and C cells. A comparison of the effect of variation in dietary calcium and of radiation.	It is known that tumours of several endocrine glands can be induced by a combination of a physiological stress and radiation. It was decided to assess the effect of radiation and of changes in dietary calcium on the development of thyroid tumours in the rat. Three hundred rats were given either 0, 5 or 10 micronCi of 131I in their first day of life. Each of these groups was subdivided after weaning, and maintained on a diet that was either high, normal or low in calcium. The animals were killed at intervals up to 27 months of age, and the numbers of thyroid tumours recorded. Follicular tumours were first noted at 9 months of age, and their frequency increased steadily with age. The effect of radiation was highly significant, only one tumour occurred in a non-irradiated animal. There was a small increase in frequency in follicular tumours in the high calcium diet grown as compared to the low calcium diet group. C cell tumours were first noted at 9 months of age, and their incidence again increased with age. Significantly more tumours occurred in the radiated than in the non-irradiated animals. No significant variation occurred in relation to dietary calcium. It is concluded that an increase in dietary calcium, known to be mildly goitrogenic, may also be important in the carcinogenesis of follicular but not C cell tumours, and that radiation, known to be carcinogenic for thyroid follicular cells is also carcinogenic for C cells.
Transient hyperthyroidism in patients with lymphocytic thyroiditis.	We have studied seven episodes of transient hyperthyroidism in three men and one woman, aged 19 to 38 years. No patient had fever or neck tenderness. All had palpable thyroid glands. Elevated serum thyroxine values persisted for 1 to 3 months. Thyroid131I uptake at 6 and 24 hours was low (1 to 3%). Erythrocyte sedimentation rates were normal or only slightly increased. Needle biopsy in four patients and a thyroidectomy specimen in one patient, all taken during the hyperthyroid phase, showed lymphocyte infiltration and extensive follicular disruption without oxyphilia. There was no evidence of granulomatous thyroiditis. Thyroglobulin antibodies were normal in all. In three patients, transient hypothyroidism followed the hyperthyroid episode. In two patients, the condition was recurrent. The findings are compatible with transient unregulated discharge of thyroid follicle content in some patients with lymphocytic thyroiditis. Recognition permits avoidance of unnecessary treatment with surgery, radioiodine, or antithyroid drugs.
Cytology in single "cold" thyroid nodules (author's transl)]	The authors report their own experience about 242 histocytologic correlations of single "cold" scintiscan thyroid nodules. That is to say 70,5% in malignancies and 91,8% in benign lesions.
Fine-needle biopsy of the thyroid gland: a cytohistological comparison in cases of goiter.	At the ENT Clinic of the Regional Hospital in Orebro, cytological investigation of fine-needle biopsy specimens has been carried out to a steadily increasing extent for more than ten years as a complement to clinical methods in investigation and laboratory tests in cases of goiter. Evaluated here are the method's diagnostic accuracy and its value in investigatory work. The material consists of 303 patients with goiter who were operated from 1964 to 1971 following fine-needle biopsy. Cases where biopsy only was undertaken are not included. Assessable cytological material was obtained in 284 cases (94%). Although not less than 15 doctors carried out the fine-needle biopsies there was approximately a 93% agreement between the cytological and histological diagnoses. In 15 of 28 cases of thyroid carcinoma it was possible to make a definite diagnosis preoperatively, while in 12 of the remaining cases atypia suspected of malignancy was found. The possibility of being able to demonstrate or suspect a carcinoma preoperatively is of greate importance for the surgeon, as a more extensive intervention can be planned in advance and the patient informed before the operation.
Thyroid papillary carcinoma. Pathological and philosophical controversies.	An encapsulated thyroid tumor with a papillary architecture is statistically much more likely to be a hyperplastic follicular adenoma than a papillary carcinoma, for the latter are uncommonly encapsulated. Hyperfunction of such a tumor is diagnostic of an adenoma. Various histopathologic features are useful in the differential diagnosis, but these are more accurately termed guidelines than criteria. The presence of psammoma bodies, fibrovascular stalks of papillae and pale nuclear changes are probably the most reliable histopathologic features of a carcinoma. The value of needle biopsy as a diagnostic tool for the screening of thyroid nodules is emphasized. Encapsulated variants of papillary carcinoma are discussed, including the rare pure follicular variant and those intermixed with adenomatous components, suggesting the possibility that some papillary carcinomas might arise in a preexisting adenoma. When the histopathologic diagnosis is equivocal, a benign interpretation is favored since encapsulated papillary carcinomas are very low grade, have an unusually favorable prognosis, and need no further resection. The polarization in past years of clinicians into radical and conservative operative fractions is reviewed. This stemmed from different interpretations of the presence of lymph node metastases in a majority of cases and the high frequency of intraglandular microscopic dissemination of neoplasm. It is clear that biological behavior of this unusual cancer is more important than a literal interpretation of the pathologic findings as a determinant for patient management. The surgical pathologist should be mindful that he plays an important role in patient management, not only by providing a diagnosis but also by serving as a consultant to the surgeon in pathologic correlation.
The validity of some morphologic methods in the diagnosis of thyroid malignancy.	The diagnostic accuracy of intraoperative frozen section and imprint cytology in thyroid conditions was analyzed along with that of cytofluorimetric nuclear DNA determination. Of 149 frozen sections in a four-year period, 90% gave a correct diagnosis, while four results were false-positive and one was false-negative. The intraoperative accuracy of imprint cytology was 95% in 309 examinations, with 12 false-positive and four false-negative results. The misjudgements with both morphologic methods derived mainly from decisions on benignancy or malignancy of follicular tumor types. Neither atypical adenoma nor encapsulated follicular carcinoma can be conclusively distinguished with these methods. Their routine application nevertheless is of great help to the surgeon, in that they can considerably reduce the need for second (radical) operations and thus the risk of complications. Nuclear DNA determination was unhelpful in the intraoperative situation.
Generalized fibrosis associated with pulmonary asbestosis.	An autopsy case of pulmonary asbestosis with fibrosis of various organs was reported. Pulmonary carcinoma and glomerulonephritis were complicated. Asbestos bodies (ABs) and fibers (AFs) were identified in the organs with fibrosis such as the lung, liver, kidney, heart, and thyroid gland by electron microscopy and digestion method. Moreover, we identified AFs in the spleen by electron microscopy which had been resected due to idiopathic portal hypertension six years previously. It is suggested that AFs can be transported to various organs and persist for a long period of time to cause pathological changes there.
Hypothyroidism and antibody production in immature male chickens.	This study was conducted to determine if hypothyroidism has an effect on humoral immunity in immature male chickens. Two week old Single Comb White Leghorn male chicks were used as experimental animals. Two experiments were conducted using different methods to induce hypothyroidism. In Experiment 1, birds were surgically thyroidectomized (Tx group) and in Experiment 2, hypothyroidism was induced by supplementing the feed throughout the experiment with 0.1% propylthiouracil (PTU group). Antibody production against sheep red blood cells (SRBC) (thymus-dependent antigen) and Brucella abortus (BA) (thymus-independent antigen) was tested at 4 weeks of age. Serum concentrations of T4 and T3 were measured in birds from each treatment group at 5 and 9 weeks of age. Body weights were recorded and birds were then autopsied and thyroid gland weights were measured. Hypothyroidism was successfully induced in both Tx and PTU birds, as reflected by significant reduction in body weights in both groups, enlargement of thyroid glands in PTU birds and absence of thyroid glands in Tx birds. Though T4 and T3 were reduced in sera of treated birds, considerable amounts of these hormones were detected. Hypothyroidism did not seem to have profound or consistent effects on antibody production against SRBC or BA. The possibility that thyroid hormones play a role in antibody production was not ruled out. However, it was suggested that within the physiological range of thyroid gland activity, thyroid hormones may not significantly regulate antibody production.
Shedding of dense cell fragments into the follicular lumen early in involution of the hyperplastic thyroid gland.	Membrane-bounded fragments of thyroid epithelial cells are found in the lumen of the thyroid follicle at early stages of involution of the hyperplastic gland. To demonstrate this, thyroid glands were made hyperplastic by feeding rats a low iodine diet containing thiouracil for 3 weeks. Involution was induced by the feeding of a high iodine diet. Three types of dense cell fragments were observed in the lumen at its periphery within 5 hours after the change of diet: (1) single, relatively large fragments that contained vesicles occasionally, (2) a cluster of rounded fragments of relatively small size. Some of these had a narrow tail, and (3) elongated narrow fragments in a row parallel to the apical surface of one or more epithelial cells. The fragments are probably derived from the thyroid epithelial cells since no other cell types were generally present. By 14 hours the fragments were distributed randomly throughout the lumen. Fragments were no longer present by 12 days of involution in most follicles. Fragment formation may be a mechanism for disposal of excess plasma membrane deposited by exocytic vesicles during rapid secretion of thyroglobulin into the follicular lumen early in involution.
Mechanism of folliculogenesis in the rat thyroid in long-term hypercalcemia]	Two types of folliculogenesis specific for the peripheral and central zones of the rat thyroid gland under prolonged hypercalcemia are described. The folliculogenesis is realized via fragmentation of a large follicle into several small ones penetrated with cords of the connective tissue. The new follicles are formed with various intensity. When the folliculogenesis is intensive, a distinctly seen desquamation of the follicular epithelium is observed. Thyrocalcitonin secreted by C-cells is probably the initiative factor of the folliculogenesis. A suggestion is made on a leading role of C-cells in pathogenesis of the goiter.
Promoting effects of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole on the development of thyroid tumors in rats treated with N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine.	3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole (AT) promoted the development of thyroid tumors in rats treated with a subeffective dose of N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN) for thyroid tumorigenesis. The incidences of thyroid tumors at the end of the 20-week experiment were 91% in rats injected s.c. once a week for four weeks with 70 mg DHPN per 100 g body weight and then given diet containing 2000 p.p.m. AT for 12 weeks, 100% in rats injected s.c. once a week for eight weeks with 70 mg DHPN per 100 g body weight and then given diet containing 2000 p.p.m. AT for 12 weeks, and 58% in rats injected s.c. once a week for 8 weeks with 70 mg DHPN per 100 g body weight. Rats only injected s.c. once a week for four weeks with DHPN or only given diet containing AT for 12 weeks had no thyroid tumors at the end of the experiment.
Postirradiation carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant: follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma.	A case of carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant is presented. The tumor was a rare follicular variant of the papillary type of thyroid carcinoma. The patient had received external beam radiation to the head and neck both as a child and as an adolescent. The recently reported increased incidence of thyroid carcinoma is believed to be related to the former practice of irradiating cervical thymic and lymphoid tissue in children. Since it is normal thyroid tissue that remains in the thyroglossal duct tract, this ectopic tissue presumably has the same malignant potential as that in the thyroid gland. Therefore, more cases of carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant may be seen as those patients who underwent head and neck irradiation in childhood mature.
Very low doses of radio-iodine for hyperthyroidism. Failure to prevent a high incidence of early hypothyroidism.	One hundred and fifty-one patients with hyperthyroidism were treated with varying doses of radio-iodine (131I), and the results were analysed 1 year later. Of the patients with Graves' disease who received the lowest 131I doses (mean 2,8 mCi) 39% had persistent thyrotoxicosis and 25% were hypothyroid 12 months after therapy. Moderate doses of 131I (mean 5,9 mCi) reduced the rate of persistent disease to 19% and increased the rate of hypothyroidism by only 4% (P less than 0,05). When 131I dosages were calculated according to thyroid weight (microCi/g), patients who received the lowest doses (mean 115 microCi/g) again had significant rates of both persistent hyperthyroidism (38%) and hypothyroidism (24%). These data indicate that very low doses of 131I in the treatment of Graves's disease may result in a high incidence of persistent disease, but do not necessarily result in a very low incidence of early hypothyroidism. Low-dose 131I regimens are unsuitable for treatment of thyrotoxicosis unless very good facilities for patient follow-up are available.
Early thyroid gland cancer]	Among 338 patients operated upon for "nodes" in the thyroid in 31.4% of cases there was found small cancer (up to 1 cm in diameter), determined microscopically and visually. A clinico-morphological definition of early thyroid cancer is suggested. It is emphasized that for the recognition of early thyroid cancer being successful a complex diagnostic method is essential, which comprises clinical, roentgenological, thyroidolymphographic, radioisotope, cytological and histological studies. The method concerned makes it possible to increase considerably (up to 77.4%) the rate of recognition of early thyroid cancer, while the operations, performed after the extrafascial technic, would provide for an adequate therapy in due course and a favourable prognosis.
Reversible changes of the histological abnormalities of the thyroid in patients with painless thyroiditis.	The histological abnormalities on percutaneous needle biopsy of the thyroid were investigated in two patients (cases 1 and 2) with transient thyrotoxicosis and low radioactive iodine uptake by the thyroid and in a patient (case 3) with transient hypothyroidism which might be the consequence of transient thyrotoxicosis. The most characteristic findings of lymphocytic thyroiditis, such as extensive lymphocyte infiltration with collapsed follicles and degeneration of follicular cells of the thyroid, were found in case 1, in whom the thyroid biopsy was performed in the thyrotoxic phase. Ashkanazy cells were not present and fibrosis was not observed in this specimen. Histological examination of the thyroid biopsy specimen, which was obtained in the recovery phase in case 1, revealed well preserved thyroid follicles and slight lymphocytic infiltration. In addition, papillary infoldings of cuboidal epithelium were found in cases 2 and 3, in whom the thyroid biopsy was done in the hypothyroid phase. The follow-up biopsy of the thyroid was performed in the recovery phase in case 3. The biopsy specimen showed focal lymphocytic infiltration and the follicles lined by low cuboidal cells without papillary infoldings. In all biopsy specimens, there was no evidence of subacute thyroiditis, as characterized by granulomatous changes and breakdown of colloid follicles with foreign body giant cell reaction. The present findings revealed that the histological abnormalities, such as lymphocytic infiltration and follicular epithelial changes of the thyroid, observed in the patients with painless thyroiditis, can improve spontaneously during the course of several months.
Multifocal myxedema and mixed thyroid neoplasm in a dog.	An Old English Sheepdog developed multiple tumor-like masses bilaterally on the head, back, elbows, and hocks, and severe swelling of all digital pads. The gross lesions were the result of accumulation of myxedematous connective tissue in the dermis. Abundant glycosaminoglycan-rich ground substance was confirmed by colloidal iron, toluidine blue and alcian blue stains. The dog also had a mixed follicular-compact cellular carcinoma in the left thyroid gland. The right thyroid had a tumor composed of anaplastic mesenchymal cells forming myxomatous matrix and islands of abnormal cartilage closely integrated, and possibly contiguous, with a follicular-compact cellular carcinoma. The cellular atypism and numerous aberrant mitotic figures in the mesenchymal areas suggested malignancy, although pulmonary metastases derived only from the thyroid carcinoma. Clinically, the dog showed no signs of hypo- or hyperthyroidism, although a resting serum T-4 was slightly below normal.
Preoperative thyroid ultrasonography and fine-needle aspiration cytology in ectopic thyroid.	Ectopic thyroid tissue is a rare entity. The occurrence of a thyroid carcinoma in such aberrant thyroid tissue has been reported, but is very rare. Surgical excision is considered the treatment of choice in managing the lesions associated with ectopic thyroid. If the ectopic thyroid is excised, all the thyroid may have been ablated, resulting in permanent hypothyroidism. We report two cases of ectopic thyroid in emphasizing the importance of thyroid ultrasonography and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytology in evaluating ectopic thyroid before surgery.
The value of coarse needle biopsy in evaluating thyroid nodules.	At Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, CPMC, the incidence of thyroid cancer found at surgery (CI) has recently changed. CI prior to 1950 was 3-4%. The CI gradually increased to 29% in 1975 without the use of needle biopsy. Fine needle biopsy (FNB) was introduced in 1976. The CI did not change during the next 7 years but remained stable at 27% in patients who did not undergo coarse needle biopsy (CNB). The overall CI using both FNB and CNB in 1982 was 42% and with CNB alone, 47%. Since that time, extensive experience using both CNB and FNB has led to a CI of 51%. The CI in patients who only received FNB remains at 28%. The increase in CI seen in patients undergoing CNB are a result of better distinction between hyperplastic lesions and microfollicular neoplasms. 78 patients, referred for surgery because of suspicion of a follicular neoplasm determined on FNB alone, underwent CNB. 35 of these patients were shown to have benign macro-micro follicular lesions (hyperplastic). In a review of 1,625 patients who have undergone CNB there were 3 complications which required surgical intervention (.018%). All of these were for bleeding 6-72 hours after CNB. These 3 patients underwent total thyroidectomy for follicular cancer without complications. There were no other significant complications. These experiences demonstrate that CNB is extremely useful in evaluating thyroid nodules. The complication rate is low and is offset by a large decrease (40%) in the number of patients referred for operation. The primary value of CNB is in differentiating between true microfollicular neoplasms and hyperplastic ones.
The pathology of an inherited lysosomal storage disorder of calves.	The clinical symptoms, gross and histopathological, as well as the ultrastructural appearance of a condition in cross-bred Aberdeen Angus calves resembling the inherited lysosomal storage disease, alpha-mannosidosis, are reported. The neurones and perithelial cells in the brain and the reticuloendothelial cells in the lymph nodes and spleen were extensively vacuolated. The vacuoles were filled with a sparse, flocculated to granular material within which membranous structures were frequently seen. No specific substance could be identified within the vacuoles, either histochemically or ultrastructurally. Besides the vacuolation, cystic tubular structures were seen in the kidneys. The lining epithelial cells of the thyroid follicles were vacuolated while some of the follicles contained no colloid.
Altered thyrotropic and somatotropic responses to environmental challenges in congenitally athymic mice.	Neonatal thymectomy or congenital absence of the thymus induces morphologic alterations in pituitary somatotrophs as well as in thyroid epithelium. It was therefore of interest to assess somatotropic and thyrotropic cell morphology and the corresponding serum hormone levels in athymic nude mice under basal and stressful conditions, taking as a reference their haired counterparts. Normal (+/+), heterozygous nude (nul+) and homozygous (nu/nu) CD-1 mice were subjected to either 1-h immobilization stress or 2-h cold stress. Serum levels of growth hormone (GH), thyrotropin (TSH), thyroxine (T4), and triiodothyronine (T3) were assessed by RIA at 0, 30, and 60 min poststress. Athymic animals showed lower basal levels of serum TSH, GH, and T3, but not T4, than their heterozygous littermates. Immunohistochemical assessment of somatotropic and thyrotropic cell populations revealed a normal morphology in the athymic animals. Immobilization stress induced a marked reduction in GH and TSH levels in normal mice but had only a weak effect in athymic animals. Two hours of cold exposure caused a comparable increase in serum TSH in normal and athymic animals, whereas the serum T4 and T3 response to cold was greater in the athymic nudes. Cold exposure drastically reduced serum GH levels in normal animals but had only a weak effect in the athymic mice. We conclude that congenital athymia in the mouse is associated with decreased basal levels of serum TSH and GH in the presence of a normal somatotroph and thyrotroph morphology. The anomalous responses of athymic mice to stress do not appear to be due to primary hypopituitarism but rather, to an altered modulation of pituitary hormone secretion.
Increased serum thyroglobulin levels in patients with nontoxic goiter.	Thyroglobulin (Tg) levels were found to be elevated in 30 to 35 patients with euthyroid sporadic goiter and in 15 of 37 patients with euthyroid endemic goiter. The elevated Tg levels in the goitrous patients did not correlate with either goiter size, TSH levels, or urinary iodine excretion, but did correlate with the triiodothyronine to thyroxine ratio. It was concluded, therefore, that in both sporadic and endemic euthyroid goiters, factors other than goiter size and TSH, such as hypoiodination of Tg may be responsible for the elevated Tg secretion.
Histologic, flow cytometric, and genetic criteria in endocrine surgery.	Differential diagnosis of endocrine neoplasms as benign or malignant is frequently extremely difficult. Similarly, assessing prognosis in cases of malignancy is problematic. Traditionally, histologic criteria, including grade of the tumor, architectural features, and cytologic appearance, have been used to predict biologic behavior. In addition, clinical scoring systems may be useful in assigning prognosis in individual cases. Examination of the DNA profile of individual cells by flow cytometry may correlate with the aggressiveness of the tumor. Recent developments in molecular genetics have yielded genetic markers that may be useful in diagnosis and prognosis as well as illuminating the pathogenesis of endocrine neoplasia. This review summarizes the status of traditional and newer methods of pathologic interpretation of endocrine neoplasms. In general, the most accurate assessment of these tumors is derived from consideration of a collage of the clinical and pathologic criteria discussed herein.
Effects of radioiodine therapy in hyperthyroidism (thyroid function, thyroid volume, Graves' ophtalmopathy, thyrotoxic heart disease).	The study group consisted of 135 hyperthyroid patients--128 with Graves' disease and 7 with toxic multinodular goiter. A single dose of radioiodine was given in 110 cases (81.48%), two doses in 22 patients (16.3%) and three doses in 3 patients (2.22%); mean total dose was 6.8 mCi (range = 3-24 mCi). The main goal of radio iodine therapy is to achieve euthyroidism; after radioiodine treatment, 61 patients (45.2%) were euthyroid, 60 patients (44.4%) with permanent hypothyroidism and 14 (10.36%) with PERSISTING HYPERTHYROIDISM--the mean duration of follow-up being 4.2 years. After radioiodine therapy, goiter became absent in 30 patients (28%); in those patients, goiter was moderately enlarged or large before therapy. Around 63% (12 cases) of the patients with thyrotoxic atrial fibrillation reverted to sinus rhythm. During the last four years (1990-1994) the patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy from the study group were treated with Prednisone after radioiodine therapy; this corticotherapy contributes to the lower percentage (1.5%) of worsening Graves' ophthalmopathy after radioiodine therapy.
Tuberculous thyroiditis: report of a case with a review of the literature.	A 49-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our department for evaluation of a thyroid nodule. She underwent subtotal thyroidectomy with modified neck dissection for a follicular thyroid carcinoma, suspected on preoperative diagnosis. The histological diagnosis was tuberculous thyroiditis. She made an uneventful recovery and received antituberculous agents. At follow-up she remains well and is euthyroid. Reports on forty-four patients in the Japanese literature were read. Tuberculous thyroiditis must be differentiated from thyroid cancer and subacute thyroiditis. Surgery plus administration of antituberculous drugs is considered the treatment of choice.
Ways to decrease postoperative hypothyroidism in patients with diffuse toxic goiter]	The authors note that postoperative hypothyrosis is observed much more often than recurrences of thyrotoxicosis in patients with diffuse toxic goiter. The incidence of hypothyrosis is associated with the amount of the remnants of tissue, its functional abilities, regeneration, state of the hormonal and immune systems of the organism. The authors describe their method of determining the mass of the thyroid residue. The incidence of hypothyrosis was reduced from 43 up to 18%.
Magnetic resonance imaging of subacute thyroiditis.	Clinical, laboratory, and scintigraphic findings, and magnetic resonance (MR) images of three patients with subacute thyroiditis are presented in all three at the time of diagnosis. On T1-weighted images, regions of abnormality with irregular margins and slightly high intensity were demonstrated. On T2-weighted images, markedly increased intensity was shown in the same sites. On follow-up MRI in two patients after treatment, these findings had disappeared or become more normal.
Characteristics and clinical correlates of a novel thyroid-stimulating autoantibody.	We reported a patient who gave birth to 3 children with transient neonatal hypothyroidism. She had 3 different antibodies (Ab) to the thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) in her serum, viz., TSH binding-inhibiting (TBIAb), thyroid-stimulating (TSAb) and an additional stimulating Ab (SAb). The SAb differed from TSAb in that its in vitro stimulating effect in human thyroid and FRTL5 cells was not inhibited by TBIAb [similar data now obtained with Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with cloned human TSHR]. Because of symptomatic goiter enlargement the patient underwent subtotal thyroidectomy. About 50% of the gland was infiltrated with lymphocytes; thyroid follicles had columnar epithelium, despite suppression of TSH by thyroxine and the presence of the potent TBIAb. Fifteen months later, when all 3 Ab showed a decline of approximately 3 fold, she gave birth to hypothyroid twins. These data support the following conclusions: 1) thyroidectomy and immunosuppression of pregnancy do not prevent neonatal thyroid disease if TSHR Ab (TRAb) are of high titer; 2) the thyroid is not a major site of TRAb production; 3) SAb is a thyroid stimulator, distinct from TSAb in that it does not share binding epitopes on the TSHR with either TSH or TBIAb; 4) SAb was the probable cause of thyroid growth in this patient.
Total thyroidectomy in a young girl presenting C cell hyperplasia at the time of a family screening for medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland]	The authors report on the case of a 5,8 year-old girl whose father died of medullary thyroid carcinoma. When she was 4,5 year-old, her physical examination was normal but plasma calcitonin and katacalcin (PDN-21) levels were abnormally high in response to pentagastrin infusion. Total thyroidectomy was performed and immunohistochemical staining showed confluent C-cell hyperplasia. No recurrence occurred in this patient over four years on follow-up.
Follicular carcinoma and Hürthle cell tumor of the thyroid]	In this paper we present the current therapeutical strategies for follicular carcinoma (10-15% of all thyroid tumours) which is more common in areas of endemic goitre, and is classified according to histology into encapsulated and angioinvasive (more aggressive). The treatment of choice is total thyroidectomy, eventually associated with functional latero-cervical lymphadenectomy. Distant metastases can be treated by surgery if single and resectable, or by radiometabolic therapy in the other cases. Hürthle cell (oxyphilic) tumour, also called oncocytoma, has an unpredictable biological behaviour, even after histological examination. During the eighties the preferred treatment was total thyroidectomy, but currently many authors favour a less aggressive approach, especially with lesions considered "benign" according to the common histological parameters. We too apply an individualised strategy of treatment; follow-up must be very thorough in order to detect early any recurrence.
Thyroid cancer: anatomy and pathologic histology]	Current pathological classifications of thyroid carcinoma only partially reflect the radical changes in our knowledge of these tumors, due to a large series of clinicopathological studies carried out over the past few years. Based on a critical review of this growing body of information concerning malignant thyroid neoplasms, a working formulation for clinical usage is proposed. This scheme has been adopted to classify 1339 consecutive cases of thyroid carcinoma observed at the Pathology Institute of the University of Florence between June 1966 and December 1993. The clinical implications of newer classification systems with regard to diagnosis, treatment and outcome of thyroid carcinoma are also discussed.
Scintigraphy in the diagnosis of thyroid carcinoma]	Thyroid scans yield functional information useful in the differential diagnosis of thyroid nodules and are usually performed with TcO4-99m for its favourable physical properties, availability, low cost and good correlation with I123. Cold thyroid nodules are very frequent and generally due to benign diseases. To distinguish the minority representing carcinomas, classes of risk must be selected, according to multiple factors, including external radiation exposure, sex, age, iodine intake and thyroid morphology. These patients will undergo fine needle biopsy which can make the final diagnosis. Its accuracy is often preferred as a first line modality in the diagnostic approach to thyroid nodules. Tumour imaging agents are very useful in the staging and follow-up of thyroid carcinomas, but are rarely needed in the primary diagnosis of the disease.
Fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms]	The clinical value of fine needle aspiration biopsy cytology is discussed with reference to 4514 histologically verified cases. A good sensitivity and specificity, together with high accuracy, make this technique a method of choice in the preoperative diagnosis of thyroid disease.
Ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection in the treatment of cystic thyroid nodules.	The management of cystic lesions in the thyroid remains controversial. We examined the efficacy and safety of ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection for the treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules in euthyroid patients.
Iodine deficiency induces thyroid cancer in rats and mice]	Wistar rats and Km mice were fed with a normal diet or a diet deficient in iodine (0.12 micrograms/l iodide in drinking water and 195.3 micrograms/kg iodide in the grain, collected from an iodine deficient area). The animals were sacrificed at 4, 7 and 12 months, one-third of the animals for each, respectively, after initiation of the experiment. It was found that, under iodine deficiency, the thyroid gland increased in weight with marked epithelial hyperplasia of the follicles, and nodular, diffuse goiter, epithelial atypia which eventually progressed to carcinoma in 19 (8 rats and 11 mice) of the 122 animals studied. Histologically, papillary carcinoma was observed in 14 and follicular carcinoma in 5. No malignant tumor developed in animals on normal iodine intake. Moreover, there was marked hyperplasia of basophilic cells in the anterior pituitary with an increase in serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level. The results suggest that, the development of thyroid carcinoma is the result of feedback hypersecretion of TSH in response to hypofunction of the thyroid gland due to iodine deficiency.
Endocrine abnormalities in patients with amyloidosis.	This study was conducted to examine systematically the endocrine function in 10 patients diagnosed to have renal amyloidosis. Basal and dynamic endocrine tests (GnRh, TRH, and ACTH stimulation tests as well as modified glucose tolerance test) were performed in all patients. Eight patients had advanced renal disease (creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min). Hypofunction of the thyroid gland was present in 5 out of those 8 patients, and thyroid biopsy confirmed amyloid deposition. Of those 5 patients, pituitary and adrenal defects were present in 2. In conclusion, endocrine abnormalities were evident at a later stage of renal amyloidosis. Hypothyroidism was present in all patients who manifested endocrine defects and should be considered as an early sign of endocrine involvement with the disease.
Thyroid ultrasound in IDDM.	Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDMM) is often associated with autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) and a high prevalence of thyroid antibodies (TA). Ultrasound imaging of the thyroid may contribute to the evaluation of patients with AIT. We therefore investigated ultrasound findings of the thyroid in 83 IDDM patients (44F, 39M) with an age range of 2.3-22.3 yrs (median 11.1). Thyroid volume (ml) determined by ultrasound ranged between 1.3 and 17.9 (median 5.7). Thyroid volumes of 75 healthy children (32F, 43M) with an age range of 2.0 to 11.8 yrs (median 7.6) ranged between 1.6 and 13.2 ml (median 4.8) and did not show a significant difference from the IDDM group from age 4 to 12. TA were positive in 18.8% of the IDDM group. Thyroid volume was higher in TA (+) diabetics (p = 0.05), a finding which may be attributed to a higher percentage of cases with elevated TSH in the TA (+) group. Two diabetic patients showed non-homogeneous hypoechogenicity in the ultrasound compatible with AIT which was later confirmed in one of these cases by aspiration biopsy. Ultrasound imaging of the thyroid may contribute to the evaluation of patients with AIT in IDDM.
Thyroid pathomorphology in children of the Republic of Byelarus subjected to radiation exposure as a result of the accident at the Chernobyl Atomic Electric Power Station]	Early and late effects of short-living iodine isotopes on the thyroid of children in Byelarus are described. Early effects manifested with an increase in the thyroid functional activity in children up to one year of age during 1986. Follicular cell hypertrophy is considered as a marker of the radiation effect at a dose level from 0.1 to 1 krad. Late effects are thyroid carcinomas the incidence of which in the country rose ten-fold within the last 5 years.
Thyroid actinomycosis (actinobacteriosis)]	An extremely rare case (the 15th case reported in the literature, according to our knowledge) of the infection with Actinomyces Israeli localized at the level of thyroid gland is presented. Although the clinical and imaging data, the fine needle aspiration biopsy, and the intraoperative aspect clearly suggested the diagnosis of thyroid cancer, the microscopic examination surprisingly identified "sulfur granules", specific to actinomycosis, so that treatment and prognosis were reconsidered.
Serum thyroglobulin level and thyrotropin receptors in plasma membranes from thyroid nodular relapse.	The parameters of 125I-bTSH binding to plasma membrane as well as serum thyroglobulin (Tg) level in 13 euthyroid females, suffering from scintigraphically functioning thyroid nodule, were investigated. Thyroid tissue samples of five euthyroid patients were obtained by surgical reintervention, which was done because of scintigraphically functioning nodular goitre relapse (Group 1). Data were compared with two control groups. One of them (Group 2) consisted of 5 euthyroid females in whom partial thyroidectomy was done because of solid functioning thyroid nodule. Long-term follow-up during postoperative period confirmed normal morphofunctional status in them. The second control (Group 3) is consisted of 3 patients suffering from goitre relapse now. The percent of specific 125I-bTSH binding and the affinity of its binding to plasma membranes from nodular goitre relapse were lower (2.05% +/- 0.82; Kd1: 0.56 +/- 0.34 10(-9) M; mean and S.D., resp.) than to the membranes obtained from surrounding perinodular tissue (0.32 +/- 0.89; Kd1: 0.20 +/- 0.77 10(-9) M, resp.). However, the level of high affinity TSH receptors in plasma membranes prepared from nodular goitre relapse was higher than that in perinodular, assumed to be normal tissue (11.21 +/- 0.87 fmol/mg prot. versus 6.29 +/- 2.24 fmol/mg prot., mean and S.D.). Plasma membranes obtained from goitre relapse were characterised by high total number of receptor and binding sites (N1 + N2) for TSH. In Group 1 and 3 elevated serum Tg levels were confirmed during follow-up period with no correlation with TSH, which characterises a normal physiological status of regulation.
Protection from BB rat diabetes by the platelet-activating factor inhibitor BN50730.	The platelet-activating factor inhibitor BN50730, a hetrazepine, was injected intraperitoneally daily from 30 days of age into diabetes-prone BB rats. While 96% (22/23) Tween 80 injected control rats developed diabetes, 0.05 mg/kg BN50730 decreased the frequency to 72% (17/24; n.s.) and 0.5 mg/kg to 56% (14/25; p < 0.01). Mean onset age in controls was 81 +/- 9 days (mean +/- SD), but BN50730 delayed onset to 87 +/- 15 days in the low and 93 +/- 12. days (p < 0.01) in high dose rats. The relative degree of insulitis was reduced in both low (p < 0.01) and high (p < 0.05) dose treated groups. Serum insulin in young prediabetic controls decreased from 84 +/- 34 microU/ml to 38 +/- 20 in the 22 rats developing diabetes (p < 0.001). Serum insulin in BN50730-protected compared to unprotected rats was 114 +/- 49 and 32 +/- 22 (p < 0.001) in the low, and 91 +/- 46 and 21 +/- 15 (p < 0.001) microU/ml in the high dose group, respectively. Increased serum insulin correlated with preserved islet beta cells and decreased insulitis. Treatment did not affect thyroiditis. Thus, platelet-activating factor may be involved in insulitis pathogenesis and platelet-activating factor inhibitors may decrease autoimmune beta cell destruction.
The results of epidemiological studies concerning iodine deficiency and goiter in Poznań Region (Poznań coordinating center).	The studies concerning iodine deficiency and occurrence of goiter, being a fragment of the program covering different parts of Poland, included 2620 children of age between 7 and 12 years attending randomly chosen schools situated in towns and villages of Poznań, Pila, Leszno, Konin, Kalisz, Bydgoszcz and Zielona Góra districts. Among the children studied, 1009 children (522 boys and 487 girls) attended town schools, and 1611 (774 boys and 837 girls) country schools. All children were subjected to anamnesis by using a standard questionnaire. Also physical examination of the thyroid aimed at the evaluation of size and morphology of the gland was carried out by palpation (according to the obligatory WHO scale) and by ultrasonography. Urine samples were taken from the majority of children for the determination of urinary excretion of iodine. In 736 (28.1%) of the studied children an enlargement of the thyroid was found. Among these children 253 are inhabitants of towns (this number represents 27.8% of all urban children studied) and 483 are inhabitants of villages (30% of all rural children studied). In 92.7% of cases the goiter could be classified as type IB according to WHO and in 56 cases it was of nodular character. There was a clear relation between the incidence of goiter and the age of the children studied. Frequency distribution of goiter in the individual age groups was as follows: for urban children--21.8% in age group of 7-8 years, 23.5% in age group of 9-10 years and 29.7% in age group 11-12 years, and for rural children the corresponding values were 21.1%, 30.2% and 38.2%. Mean urinary iodine excretion was 96 micrograms/L (median 84 micrograms/L) for urban children, and 87 micrograms/L (median 64 micrograms/L) for rural children. Among 2620 answers concerning the use of iodized salt in the household, only 980 (37.1%) were positive. In towns, the use of iodized salt declared about 41% of families and in villages about 35%. Altogether, among 736 cases of goiter, 464 are children not using iodized salt. Only in 272 cases goiter appeared despite the use of iodized salt. The data concerning family occurrence of goiter and the type of iodized salt used can be treated as approximate because of subjective character. According to the results obtained, the region covered by the study falls according to the WHO and ICCIDD classification to the category of an area of mild iodine deficiency requiring more intensive iodine prophylaxis.
Iodized salt consumption, urinary iodine concentration and prevalence of goiter in children from four districts of north-western Poland (Szczecin coordinating center).	The study was aimed at evaluation of iodized salt consumption, urinary iodine concentration and incidence of goiter in children from four districts of north-western Poland: Szczecin, Koszalin, Słupsk and Gorzów Wlkp. The study was a part of the national programme: "Investigations of iodine deficite and iodine prophylaxis in Poland". The investigations were performed in ten schools randomly selected by Coordinating Centre in Kraków. Altogether 1793 children attending these schools (838 boys and 955 girls) of age between 6 ad 13 years, living in the cities and villages of coastal and lowland region were studied. The examination included interview in the form of a standard questionnaire, physical examination of the thyroid according to the WHO criteria, ultrasonographic evaluation of thyroid volume and determination of iodine concentration in single urine specimen. It appeared that only 11.2% of children used to consume iodized salt. Mean iodine concentration in urine was 76.2 micrograms/l both in children consuming and not consuming iodized salt, indicating dietary iodine deficiency. The incidence of goiter in country population of children (12.9%), indicated that the region of north-western Poland should be considered as an area of mild goiter endemy. These results suggest a need for iodine supplementation of edible salt in this region of Poland.
Ultrasound measurement of thyroid volume in the nation-wide epidemiological survey on iodine deficiency in Poland.	Thyroid size was evaluated by ultrasonography and palpation during a study performed in 1992 and 1993 by PCCIDD. Statistical analysis was carried out in 15774 cases with thyroid volume measured by trained teams of doctors. The results were evaluated in 5 age group: 6-8, 9-10, 11-12, and 13 years. The upper limit of the thyroid volume in each age group was defined as mean for stage 0 (WHO) + 1 SD. Our upper limits of thyroid volume in age groups were: 6.1, 7.2, 8.4 and 9.1 ml, respectively. The highest frequency of goitre (according to ultrasound criteria) were in the Sudeten endemia region (53.1%), the lowest in the Seaside area (14.3%). Significant influence of age, sex, height, weight, place of living, and thyroid hormone containing drugs on thyroid size was proved. The influence of iodine prophylaxis on thyroid volume was not significant.
The current management of thyroid tumors in childhood.	Thyroid cancer is a rare but intriguing malignancy when it occurs in childhood and adolescence. Although it often presents at a more advanced stage than similar adult thyroid tumors, the biologic behavior is more benign, accounting for improved survival. Therefore, pediatricians and surgeons have debated the wisdom of aggressive versus conservative surgical approaches. Although the final answers have not been achieved it has become increasingly clear that radical surgical approaches may be unnecessary. Further investigation of the tumor cell biology, genetics, and molecular biology of thyroid tumors may allow prospective classification of children so that the best operative and adjuvant management can be selected for each individual.
Routine measurement of serum calcitonin in nodular thyroid diseases allows the preoperative diagnosis of unsuspected sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma.	To assess whether routine measurement of serum calcitonin (CT) could improve the preoperative diagnosis of sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), 1385 consecutive patients presenting for nodular thyroid disease during the year 1991 were submitted to serum CT determination and fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC). The clinical diagnosis was nontoxic nodular goiter in 1197 (86.4%) patients, toxic multinodular goiter in 65 (4.7%), autonomously functioning thyroid nodule (AFTN) in 64 (4.6%), and autoimmune thyroid disease (Graves' disease or Hashimoto's thyroiditis) with nodule(s) in 59 (4.3%). As controls, 177 patients with nonnodular thyroid disease and 32 normal subjects were also studied. Patients with FNAC suspicious of any kind of thyroid carcinoma and patients with elevated basal and pentagastrin-stimulated serum CT, regardless of the results of FNAC, were submitted to surgery. Eight (0.57%) patients (7 with nontoxic nodular goiter and 1 with AFTN) had elevated basal serum CT levels, ranging between 55-10,000 pg/mL. The pentagastrin test was abnormal in all of them. FNAC was suggestive of MTC in 2, thyroid carcinoma in 1, benign nodule in 3, and inadequate in 2. By histology, immunohistochemistry, and Northern blot analysis of total tumor RNAs, MTC was confirmed in all patients, including the 1 with AFTN, who had the association of microfollicular adenoma and a small MTC in the same lobe. After surgery, serum CT decreased to undetectable levels in 7 patients and remained undetectable in 6 of them during a mean follow-up of 22 months, although 1 of them had a positive response to pentagastrin. Forty-four patients in the group with normal serum CT levels had FNAC suspicious for differentiated thyroid carcinoma and were treated by surgery. Differentiated thyroid carcinoma, mostly papillary, was confirmed at histology in 43 subjects (3.1% of all thyroid nodules). In conclusion, the results of our study indicate that serum CT measurement is useful for the screening of sporadic MTC in patients with thyroid nodule(s). The prevalence of MTC, diagnosed by serum CT measurement in a 12-month period, among an unselected series of 1385 patients with nodular thyroid disease was surprisingly high: 0.57% of all thyroid nodules and 15.7% of all thyroid carcinomas. Serum CT measurement was superior to FNAC in suggesting the diagnosis of MTC and was devoid of falsely positive results. Increasing the diagnostic accuracy helped the surgeon to perform more radical treatment of MTC, thus achieving frequent normalization of postoperative serum CT levels. Whether this result indicates definitive cure remains to be established on the basis of longer follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Morphofunctional parameters of the thyroid gland in late periods after prolonged stress in rat strains selected for nervous system excitability]	Thyroid morphology, function, and hormonal levels were studied in two rat strains with genetically determined levels of nervous system excitability immediately and in late periods after prolonged stress resulting in development of a neurosis-like state. A high resistance of the linear characteristics of thyroid morphology and function was revealed whose high functional activity was observed in the rats with a low excitability threshold. Two weeks after neurotization cessation morphofunctional status of the thyroid normalized.
Characteristics and clinical course of patients with subacute thyroiditis without typical signs and symptoms]	To determine the characteristics and clinical course of patients with subacute thyroiditis (SAT) without typical signs and symptoms, clinical and pathologic records of the patients were reviewed and compared with those of patients with typical SAT. During the past 10 years, 11 of 105 patients with SAT did not have enough typical features for a diagnosis of SAT (atypical SAT). They included one male and 10 females with the average age of 50 years. The incidence of neck pain as the initial symptom in the patients with atypical SAT was low (18%) compared with that in the patients with typical SAT (69%). Of the patients with atypical SAT, 42% had elevated thyroid hormone levels and 46% had suppressed TSH levels, whereas the percentages in the patients with typical SAT were 76% and 85% respectively. Nine of 11 patients were misdiagnosed as having papillary carcinoma by physical examination, and 4 by ultrasonography. However, aspiration cytology could make a precise diagnosis of SAT in 4 patients at the time of clinical diagnosis and 3 other patients after reevaluation. Eight patients were admitted to the hospital under the diagnosis of thyroid cancer and 4 underwent surgical resection. Differential diagnosis between atypical SAT and papillary carcinoma is important, and aspiration cytology could be a conclusive diagnostic tool to avoid unnecessary treatment.
Roles of adrenal and gonadal steroids and season in uropygial gland function in male pigeons, Columba livia.	To gauge the relative regulative roles of adrenal, gonadal, and thyroid hormones on uropygial gland of male adult pigeons, morphometric, histological, and histochemical observations have been made on a seasonal basis in normal as well as experimentally manipulated birds. Normal birds showed a parallel adrenal-gonadal-uropygial relationship and inverse adrenal-thyroid, thyroid-gonadal, and thyroid-uropygial relationships. Induced hypocorticalism by dexamethasone in the breeding season and hypercorticalism by ACTH or corticosterone treatment in the nonbreeding season were marked by inhibitory and stimulatory changes respectively in the uropygial gland and testis and by inverse thyroid activity. Further, cyproterone acetate treatment in the breeding season completely suppressed testicular functions and increased thyroid activity without affecting either adrenal or uropygial weight, structure, and functions. Based on the observations it is concluded that adrenal steroids are principally involved in regulating the uropygial gland while the gonadal steroids are involved in qualitative aspects of secretion during the breeding phase and thyroid hormones in maintaining the general metabolic profile.
Papillary carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct remnant with normal thyroid gland.	Carcinoma in the thyroglossal duct remnant is relatively uncommon. Since the first report by Uchermann (1915), more than 150 cases of carcinoma have been reported, and the majority have been papillary thyroid carcinomas (Li Volsi et al., 1974; McNicol et al., 1988). In this report, we present a case of papillary carcinoma in the thyroglossal duct with a normal thyroid gland.
Fine needle puncture biopsy and methods to image the thyroid gland in the diagnosis of nodular goiter]	A retrospective analysis of the findings of fine needle puncture biopsy of the thyroid in 256 patients operated on for nodular goiter is presented. Cytologic findings coincided with the histologic in 84.8% of cases. The coincidences were the most frequent in (multiple) nodular colloid goiter and thyroid cysts (95.7 = 100%) and the least so in solitary adenoma (65.4%) predominantly of a follicular structure. In thyroid cancer the data correlated in 75% of cases. The presence of cystous changes in adenoma made the investigation less informative. Findings of ultrasonic examination of the thyroid coincided with operative findings in 87.5% of patients with (multiple) nodular goiter and in 86.1% of those with adenomas. Ultrasonography as a method for thyroid imaging is preferable to scintigraphy (scanning) and is an optimal supplement to puncture biopsy of the thyroid.
Ultrasound and MRI findings in a case of childhood amyloid goiter.	Goiter secondary to amyloidosis is rare in clinical practice and only a few descriptions of its radiologic features have been reported. We present the ultrasound and MRI findings of thyroid amyloidosis in a 7-year-old Turkish boy with familial Mediterranean fever.
Effect of pre- and postnatal propylthiouracil administration on the propagation of cortical spreading depression of adult rats.	The effect of treatment with propylthiouracil early in life (PTU; 8 mg k-1 day-1, ip, from day 17 of gestation to postnatal day 42) on the susceptibility of the cerebral cortex to spreading depression (SD) was studied in 13 adult Wistar rats (90-100 days of age). Ten animals injected with Ringer solution served as control. Adult PTU-treated rats displayed a significant (P < 0.05) reduction in body weight (mean +/- SD: 139.9 +/- 28.9 g vs 304.9 +/- 42.8 g) as well as wet brain weight (1.39 +/- 0.12 g vs 1.86 +/- 0.13 g) and dry brain weight (247.3 +/- 24.2 mg vs 359.4 +/- 30.1 mg). Their thyroid glands presented histological changes indicative of hypofunction and SD velocity of propagation was significantly reduced all along the 6 h of the recording session (mean +/- SD ranges: 1.90 +/- 0.46 to 2.52 +/- 0.68 mm/min vs 3.49 +/- 0.57 to 3.71 +/- 0.55 mm/min). The results indicate that PTU early in life was effective in producing hypothyroidism and that in this situation cortical susceptibility to SD is impaired.
Cytologic diagnosis of thyroid lesions by fine needle aspiration]	Fine needle aspiration cytology was used for the diagnosis of 1914 cases of thyroid lesions. In 365 cases, cytologic findings were compared with pathohistologic findings. 310 benign lesions including 272 tumors and 38 other lesions and 55 malignant tumors were noted. The total correspondence rate was 97% and the rate of misdiagnosis 3%. Sampling and diagnostic technics were discussed.
Triprolidine: 104-week feeding study in rats.	The antihistamine triprolidine hydrochloride, was fed at dietary concentrations of 0, 250, 1000, or 2000 ppm (as the free base) to groups of 60 Fischer 344 (F344) rats of each sex for up to 2 years to evaluate its potential carcinogenicity. Up to 12 per sex from each group were killed at 65 weeks, and hematology, clinical chemistry, and histopathology were evaluated. A complete histopathological evaluation was performed on all other animals; survivors were killed at 2 years. Survival was significantly extended in triprolidine-treated males and females, particularly at the high dose. At the close of the study high-dose males and females had gained significantly less body weight than controls. Among rats killed at 65 weeks females in the mid- and high-dose groups weighed significantly less than controls, but weights of control and dosed males were not significantly different. The incidences of numerous lesions tended to decrease with increasing triprolidine dose. In females, clitoral gland adenomas, thyroid c-cell hyperplasia and neoplasia, mammary gland hyperplasia and fibroadenomas, and uterine stromal polyps, and in males, anterior pituitary gland adenomas, preputial gland neoplasia, thyroid c-cell pancreatic islet neoplasia, mononuclear cell leukemia, and the combination of lymphocytic, histiocytic, and undifferentiated cell malignant lymphomas and mononuclear leukemia, all exhibited negative dose trends. Cytoplasmic alterations of the parotid gland and numerous liver lesions tended to be more frequent in treated than in control animals. Liver lesions that exhibited positive dose trends include chronic inflammation and centrilobular fatty change in both sexes, mixed cell foci, and the combination of mixed cell foci and eosinophilic foci in females, and in males, basophilic foci and eosinophilic foci. Triprolidine was not carcinogenic in F344 rats.
Nondiagnostic fine needle aspiration biopsy of the thyroid gland: a diagnostic dilemma.	To evaluate all nondiagnostic fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens from the thyroid gland with subsequent histopathologic diagnoses at Ottawa Civic Hospital. The criterion for specimen adequacy used in our institution was also reexamined to determine if it was too stringent.
Recessive resistance to thyroid hormone in mice lacking thyroid hormone receptor beta: evidence for tissue-specific modulation of receptor function.	The diverse functions of thyroid hormone (T3) are presumed to be mediated by two genes encoding the related receptors, TRalpha and TRbeta. However, the in vivo functions of TRalpha and TRbeta are undefined. Here, we report that targeted inactivation of the mouse TRbeta gene results in goitre and elevated levels of thyroid hormone. Also, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), which is released by pituitary thyrotropes and which is normally suppressed by increased levels of thyroid hormone, was present at elevated levels in homozygous mutant (Thrb-/-) mice. These findings suggest a unique role for TRbeta that cannot be substituted by TRalpha in the T3-dependent feedback regulation of TSH transcription. Thrb-/- mice provide a recessive model for the human syndrome of resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) that exhibits a similar endocrine disorder but which is typically caused by dominant TRbeta mutants that are transcriptional inhibitors. It is unknown whether TRalpha, TRbeta or other receptors are targets for inhibition in dominant RTH; however, the analysis of Thrb-/- mice suggests that antagonism of TRbeta-mediated pathways underlies the disorder of the pituitary-thyroid axis. Interestingly, in the brain, the absence of TRbeta may not mimic the defects often associated with dominant RTH, since no overt behavioural or neuroanatomical abnormalities were detected in Thrb-/- mice. These data define in vivo functions for TRbeta and indicate that specificity in T3 signalling is conferred by distinct receptor genes.
Medullar breast cancer, occult papillary carcinoma, pulmonary metastases: a case report]	The authors have carried out their study on a woman who previously underwent QU.A.R.T. because of a medullar breast cancer. She also had pulmonary metastases resistant to chemotherapy which were then resected by mini-invasive video-assisted thoracic surgery: it was so discovered that such lesions came from an occult papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland originated in a multinodular goitre. This study has allowed the accomplishment of a right aetiologic and therapeutic classification of the patient.
Pseudolymphoma of the thyroid gland. A case report.	An unusual case of pseudolymphoma of the thyroid gland is presented. A well-demarcated whitish mass measuring 1.0 cm in diameter was found in the upper center of the right lobe of the thyroid gland. Microscopically, the lesion was composed of hyperplastic lymphoid tissues with many follicular centers and mixed infiltration of plasma cells and macrophages. The immunostain revealed a similar distribution of T-and B-lymphocytes to reactive lymph node and a polyclonal nature of the plasma cell infiltrates. No lymphoepithelial lesion was associated. The adjacent thyroid tissues showed chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. This finding suggests that the lesion is a pseudolymphoma of the thyroid gland. This condition is rare, but it should be considered during the differential diagnosis of lymphoproliferative lesions occurring in the thyroid gland, especially with low-grade malignant lymphoma of the thyroid gland.
Kikuchi's disease associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	We describe a unique association of histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis (Kikuchi's disease) and chronic lymphocytic (Hashimoto's) thyroiditis in a patient who presented with significant cervical lymphadenopathy and a goiter. This case illustrates the value of lymph node biopsy combined with the fine needle aspiration of the thyroid in determining the nature of the relationship between the goiter and lymphadenopathy.
Papillary thyroid cancer in Saudi Arabia. Clinical, pathologic, and management characteristics.	During a 3-year period, 233 patients with papillary thyroid cancer were seen at King Faisal Specialist Hospital (KFSH) (79% were female; 94% were national subjects). Pathology revealed 88% pure papillary carcinoma and 12% mixed papillary and follicular carcinoma, 7% microfocus, 18% well encapsulated, 24% capsular invasion, and 51% soft tissue invasion. Thirty percent of patients who had initial surgery not done at KFSH compared with 93% of patients who had initial surgery done at KFSH had an I-123 24-hour uptake < 5%. One hundred seventeen patients required completion thyroidectomy at KFSH for significant residual thyroid tissue, 56% of those had residual papillary carcinoma. The amenability of papillary thyroid cancer for cure necessitates the optimization of management at the national level. In Saudi Arabia, papillary thyroid cancer presented in an advanced stage, especially in males as manifested by the large primary tumor size, advance pathologic staging, and distant metastases at the time of presentation. Findings at second surgery, showed significant residual disease.
Malignant hemangioendothelioma of the thyroid gland: new results on pathogenesis, therapy and prognosis]	Malignant hemangioendothelioma of the thyroid is a rare tumor predominantly described in areas with endemic goiter like the Alpine regions. The estimated incidence of the disease is between 0.15 and 0.25 per 100,000 inhabitants per year for Western Austria. The prognosis is reported to be dismal.
Surgical significance of supernumerary parathyroid glands in renal hyperparathyroidism.	In secondary hyperparathyroidism (2HPT) fundamentally all parathyroid glands, including supernumerary glands, become hyperplastic, and stimulation of parathyroid glands continues after parathyroidectomy (PTx). Therefore supernumerary glands have special significance during surgery for 2HPT, whether persistent or recurrent HPT. In the present study 570 patients underwent initial total PTx with a forearm autograft. The frequency, type, location, histopathology, and clinical significance of the supernumerary glands were evaluated. At the initial operation 90 supernumerary glands were removed from 82 to 570 patients (14.4%); 12 patients (2.1%) required extirpation of supernumerary glands for persistent/recurrent HPT. Altogether 104 supernumerary glands were identified at operation in 94 of the 570 patients (16.5%). Among these 104 glands, 25 (24.0%) were of the rudimentary, or split, type and 79 (76.0%) of the proper type. Supernumerary glands were most frequently identified in the thymic tongue (53/104, 51.0%); 32 (60.4%) of these 53 glands were identified only microscopically. In 6 of the 570 cases (1.1%), reoperation was required for persistent HPT due to supernumerary glands located in the mediastinum, and 6 patients underwent neck reexploration for recurrence. Histopathologically, 61 of 104 (58.7%) supernumerary glands, including 36 glands recognized only microscopically, showed diffuse hyperplasia, and 43 (41.3%) displayed nodular hyperplasia. Residual small supernumerary glands with diffuse hyperplasia have the potential to be transformed to nodular hyperplasia during long-term hemodialysis. Therefore all parathyroid glands including supernumerary glands should, if possible, be removed at the initial operation. Routine removal of the thymic tongue and careful examination of the regions surrounding the lower poles of the thyroid, especially on the left side, are important steps in the surgical treatment.
The RET gene in thyroid pathology]	The RET proto-oncogene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase which plays a crucial role during the embryonic development of the enteric nervous system and of the kidney. Cytogenetic analyses of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), a neoplasm which originates from thyrocytes, have revealed that somatic rearrangements of the RET gene are involved in the etiology of a significant proportion of this tumour. Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) which arises from neural-crest derived C-cells is the cardinal disease feature of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2), a dominantly inherited cancer syndrome. Recent studies have provided evidence that germline mutations of the RET gene are the underlying genetic events responsible for MEN 2. This review focuses on the role of RET mutations in the pathogenesis of PTC and MTC and summarizes our present knowledge on the consequences of these alterations on the RET tyrosine kinase function. We further describe a transgenic mouse model for hereditary MTC. Mice carrying a MEN 2A allele of RET under the control of the CGRP/calcitonin promoter develop bilateral and multifocal MTC, morphologically and biologically similar to human MTC.
Transgenic mouse models. Their interest in thyroid tumors]	Mouse transgenic models that develop thyroid diseases were generated. All transgenes were driven by the thyroid specific promoter of the thyroglobulin gene. The tissue specificity of the promoter was investigated by using the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene as reporter. The expression of the adenosine A2a receptor resulted in the permanent activation of the cAMP cascade. As a consequence, transgenic mice developed severe hyperthyroidism and a large goiter, demonstrating in vivo the role of the cAMP cascade in the promotion of both function and proliferation of the thyroid cell. These mice constitute a model for autonomous hyperfunctional adenoma and non autoimmune familial hyperthyroidism, where mutant of thyrotropin receptors stimulate the cAMP cascade constitutively. The expression of a mutant of the alpha 1B adrenergic receptor resulted in the constitutive activation of both the cAMP and IP3-CA++ cascades, growth stimulation, hyperfunction, cell degeneracy attributed to the overproduction of free radicals, and development of malignancies. The expression of the SV40 large T antigen promoted the development of aggressive undifferentiated tumors mimicking the phenotype of human anaplastic carcinomas and embryonal tumors. In another transgenic model, the function of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product RB1 (and of related proteins) was inhibited by expressing the E7 oncoprotein of human papillomavirus type 16. The result was the development of a differentiated and normofunctional colloid goiter, with progressive development of differentiated malignant lesions. This model suggests the essential role of RB1 and related proteins in the negative control of proliferation that characterizes thyroid cells in the adult. Other transgenic models of thyroid diseases are discussed.
Medullary thyroid carcinoma: evolution of concepts]	This article analyses in a large overview several of the actual problems encountered by pathologist in the management of MTC whatever the diagnostic circumstances. We insist on difficulties upon C cell hyperplasia and early detected disease. Unusual MTC cases are discussed. The need for large multidisciplinary group in studying such tumors is underlined with reference to the French GETC (Groupe d'Etude des Tumeurs à Calcitonine).
Borderline lesions of the thyroid: diagnostic strategy]	Some thyroid neoplasms notoriously cause problems in the histologic diagnosis of their nature (follicular versus papillary for example) or their malignant potential (adenoma versus carcinoma) because of overlapping histologic features. Here, thyroid lesions are presented according to their histologic presentation (vesicular, papillary, trabecular, solid or cystic patterns, fibrosing thyroids and lymphoid infiltrate). For each entity, the most discriminant histologic features are described with emphasis on the diagnostic pitfalls and their histological clues.
Frozen section examination in thyroid pathology. Technique and effective indications]	Frozen section examination for intraoperative diagnosis is often difficult in thyroid pathology. Fine-needle aspiration is widely used in the patients selection for surgery. Such a selection is accompanied by an increase in difficult frozen section cases, whose diagnosis is often differed to permanent sections. Thus, frozen section sensitivity is relatively low. In the era of cost containment, an increasing number of authors suggest that frozen section examination is unnecessary, and that surgical planning could rely on preoperative cytology only. Others consider fine-needle aspiration cytological evaluation and frozen section examination as complementary tools and recommend their association. The authors describe the technical aspects and difficulties of frozen section examination in thyroid pathology, and discuss its interest in surgical planning, in the light of preoperative cytology. Each team has to estimate local thyroid cytology development and accuracy, to define new indications for frozen section examination in thyroid pathology, according to local therapeutic choices. Such an approach could consistently reduce the number of intraoperative consultation for thyroid pathology, without prejudice for the patients.
Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid]	This article precises the technical conditions of fine-needle aspiration, elements of microscopical analyses which establish the diagnostic, complementary technics, specially immunocytochemistry that could enhance the performance. Limits and worrisome histologic changes following fine needle aspiration are also discussed. Fine needle aspiration results are discussed. The text is fully illustrated.
Epithelial tumors with thymus differentiation of the thyroid gland and the neck]	Epithelial tumors with thymus-like differentiation occurring in the thyroid gland and the neck, delineate four entities with distinct histological features and different behaviour. The spindle epithelial tumors with thymus-like differentiation are potentially malignant tumors occurring in the thyroid gland of young patients. They are highly cellular with pattern of spindle cells and tubulopapillary formations and mucinous glands. Carcinomas showing thymus-like differentiation of the thyroid gland are histologically identical to some thymic carcinomas. The ectopic hamartomatous thymoma is strictly benign and occurs in the soft tissues of the lower neck. It is characterized by spindle and solid or cystic islands of epithelial cells associated with adipose cells. The ectopic cervical thymoma is usually benign and histologically similar to mediastinal thymomas. All these tumors are particularly rare and arise from ectopic thymus or remnants of branchial pouch. The differential diagnoses of these tumors can be difficult and include some other proliferations occurring in the neck.
Hamartomatous adiposity of the thyroid]	Report of one case of hamartomatous adiposity of the thyroid gland. Only eight cases have been reported. The lesion is composed of thyroid tissue and mature adipose elements. Previously reported cases are reviewed and the pathogenesis is discussed.
Marginal vacuoles in thyroid aspirates.	To report on two cases of metastatic follicular carcinoma with marginal vacuoles (MVs) and review smear results in 441 solitary nodular goiters (SNGs) for this cytologic feature.
Aspiration cytology of ectopic cervical thymoma mimicking a thyroid mass. A case report.	Ectopic cervical thymoma, first described in 1941 by Boman, is an uncommon tumor of the neck displaying the same histologic features as mediastinal thymoma. Since it is commonly located in the anterolateral part of the neck or is subjacent to or inside the lower pole of the thyroid, the mass is often confused as being of thyroid origin.
Importance of DNA fragmentation in apoptosis with regard to TUNEL specificity.	In the absence of a universal specific molecular tracer of apoptosis, structural DNA alterations provide the basis of labeling systems: double-strand fragmentation for TUNEL (terminal transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling), denaturation for poly (A) in situ hybridization, immunogenicity of single strand DNA, all methods which imply limited specificity due to the unavoidable presence of DNA breaks in virtually all cells. Thus, TUNEL application has been restrained to a narrow spectrum of sample conditions which has limited, in particular, retrospective surveys and apoptotic nuclei-protein double labelings. In the apoptotic nucleus two main obstacles intervene between TUNEL reagents and their targets: DNA hypercondensation and proteins around DNA. The former increases in the course of apoptosis and both are worsened by crosslinking and precipitating fixatives. This point out that TUNEL is an ambitious approach whose target, apoptotic DNA breaks, is less accessible than breaks occurring in non-apoptotic less compacted DNA. However, TUNEL has an advantage: the far greater degree of apoptotic DNA fragmentation. How to obtain a frank differential staining between apoptotic and non-apoptotic DNA? It appears that the answer relies on the pretreatment step and not in modifying the TUNEL staining protocol, which is optimal. Adapted pretreatments are able to circumvent accessibility obstacles and to extend TUNEL applicability to the most demanding conditions, those of archived tissue samples and of TUNEL--protein double labelings.
Iodide induces thyroid autoimmunity in patients with endemic goitre: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.	Iodine is essential for normal thyroid function and the majority of individuals tolerate a wide range of dietary levels. However, a subset of individuals, on exposure to iodine, develop thyroid dysfunction. In this double-blind trial, we evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of low-dose iodine compared with those of levo-thyroxine (T4) in patients with endemic goitre.
Comparison of intraoperative cytology with frozen sections in the diagnosis of thyroid lesions.	We retrospectively studied the usefulness of intraoperative cytology (IOC) and frozen section (FS) in the rapid diagnosis of 68 thyroid lesions. In 14 cases of papillary thyroid carcinoma, IOC correctly diagnosed 13 cases, while FS correctly diagnosed 11 cases. There was no significant difference in sensitivities, and both methods had similar specificities. In 21 cases of colloid nodule, IOC was slightly more sensitive than FS; IOC correctly diagnosed 16 cases, while FS correctly diagnosed 15 cases. However, the specificity of IOC was only 71%, but was 98% for FS. Of 17 follicular adenomas, FS diagnosed 16 as follicular neoplasms and misdiagnosed only 1 as a colloid nodule. By contrast, IOC misdiagnosed 9 follicular adenomas as colloid nodules, most of which were macrofollicular variants with abundant colloid. Of 11 follicular carcinomas, FS diagnosed all as follicular neoplasms, while IOC misdiagnosed 3 as colloid nodules. While IOC is not as accurate as FS in the diagnosis of colloid nodules and follicular neoplasms, it is highly sensitive and specific in the diagnoses of papillary carcinoma and performance of the technique is rapid and easy. In an intraoperative setting, IOC is a useful adjunct to FS in screening thyroid nodules for the presence of papillary carcinoma.
Body mass and body composition after total thyroidectomy for benign goiters.	To date there are no data available as to whether postmenopausal women who undergo total thyroidectomy for benign euthyroid goiter demonstrate changes in body mass or body composition. We prospectively evaluated 8 postmenopausal women (mean age 57 +/- 7; range 48 to 70 years) who underwent total thyroidectomy for benign goiter. All patients were euthyroid preoperatively (serum free thyroxine [FT4] 12.7 +/- 0.6 pmol/L and serum thyrotropin [TSH] 0.98 +/- 0.2 mU/L) and were commenced on adequate thyroxine replacement immediately postoperatively in order to maintain a serum TSH within the normal range (0.5-4 mU/L). Body mass, body composition, and thyroid function were assessed preoperatively, and at 4 and 12 months postoperatively. Body composition was assessed by anthropometry and dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (Lunar DPX-L scanner). Eight healthy postmenopausal women without evidence of thyroid disease matched for age, weight, and estrogen therapy who were followed over the same period were used as controls. All patients were maintained in a euthyroid status throughout the study. No significant changes in body mass or any parameter of body composition were demonstrated at 4 and 12 months postoperatively. Similar findings were recorded in our control group. We conclude that total thyroidectomy in euthyroid postmenopausal women with benign goiter does not result in a significant change in either body mass or body composition if adequate thyroxine replacement is maintained.
Diagnostic items and treatment of Plummer's disease: a study on 180 patients.	The aim of this study was to evaluate clinical data of patients who have been undergone to medical, radionuclide, surgical and percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) treatment of autonomous "hot nodule", to establish the real value of these therapeutical strategies.
The differential diagnosis of nodular formations of the thyroid]	Differential-diagnostic potentialities are considered of physical, instrumental, morphological and laboratory methods of investigation in nodular formations in the thyroid gland. Of first importance in the differential diagnosis are clinical methods that permit making an accurate diagnosis in 78% of cases; combined use of these methods with small-needle puncture biopsy, ultrasonic investigation increase the probability for the diagnosis to be correct up to 92%. Intraoperative macroscopic and rapid histological diagnosis appeared to be even more effective (95 to 97%).
Diagnosis of benign thyroid lesions: fine-needle aspiration and histopathologic correlation.	Fine-needle aspiration is now accepted as the initial procedure for diagnosing a thyroid nodule. General pathologists inevitably will be asked to interpret aspirates as this diagnostic tool continues to be more widely used. This procedure is relatively inexpensive, is safe, and nearly always provides information useful in deciding how to manage the patient. We emphasize the importance of obtaining a representative sample of good quality. This often occurs when the "interventional pathologist" performs the aspirations, but there is no reason that another practitioner cannot become expert. Both histologic and cytologic features are reviewed from normal thyroid tissue, autoimmune thyroiditis, adenomatoid nodules, and follicular neoplasms. We encourage the use of clear, simple, and uniform terminology to facilitate communication.
Fatal heatstroke in a young woman with previously undiagnosed Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	Heatstroke represents the most severe form of the heat-related illnesses. Potentially fatal, heatstroke most often affects the elderly, obese, or chronically ill. Thyroid disease, which may interfere with the normal regulation of body temperature, has not previously been reported in cases of heatstroke. A fatal case is reported in a young woman discovered unconscious in a sauna who was found to have preexisting Hashimoto's thyroiditis on subsequent autopsy. The diagnosis of hypothyroidism in heatstroke rests on clinical information and morphologic observations. This case underscores the importance of evaluating the thyroid in unusual cases of heatstroke.
Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of thyrocyte-relevant genes in fine-needle aspiration biopsies of the human thyroid.	Currently, fine-needle aspiration cytology is a valuable tool in the routine diagnosis of suspicious thyroid nodules. We present a very sensitive method for the molecular analysis of the expression of several genes important for normal thyroid function in parallel to the cytological diagnosis. We adapted reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to amplify thyroid-typical mRNAs in samples of thyroid carcinoma cells as small as those obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB), ie, 100-1000 cells, and applied this procedure to four routinely taken FNABs. Gene products such as thyroglobulin (Tg), thyroid-stimulating hormone-receptor (TSHr), sodium/iodide-symporter (NIS), type I iodothyronine-5'-deiodinase (DI), and type II iodothyronine-5'-deiodinase (DII) were analyzed. To establish RT-PCR protocols, serial dilutions of follicular thyroid carcinoma cells, FTC-133, which express these genes at low levels, were initially used for RNA isolation. Successful RNA isolation and reverse transcription were checked by the amplification of beta-actin mRNA. We detected the mRNAs coding for Tg in as little as 10 cells, for NIS in 100 cells, and for TSHr, DI, and DII in 10,000 cells. After preparing cytological smears of four routinely taken FNABs, all above-mentioned thyroid-typical mRNAs were observed by using the material remaining in the needle for RNA isolation followed by RT-PCR. This method offers the possibility of obtaining two different types of information from the same routinely taken thyroid FNAB: the cytological diagnosis and the expression pattern of several diagnostically relevant genes. Therefore, a more specific diagnosis could be rendered in the preoperative state, and may lead to more specific therapy.
Amyloid goiter due to primary systemic amyloidosis: a diagnostic challenge.	We describe a euthyroid patient who presented with a goiter that continued to enlarge despite levothyroxine administration. Three fine-needle aspirations for cytology were nondiagnostic. An open biopsy was complicated by bleeding from the surgical site. Primary systemic amyloidosis was diagnosed on the basis of the goiter histology, bone marrow aspirate, and urine immunoelectrophoresis. The patient received melphalan and steroid treatment and survived for an additional 16 months. This period was complicated by congestive heart failure, generalized seizures, and upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Our case illustrates the difficulties in making the diagnosis and in treatment of primary systemic amyloidosis.
Pediatric thyroid nodules: insights in management.	Multiple diagnostic studies are utilized to unveil malignancy in pediatric thyroid nodules and determine whether surgical therapy is needed.
