Thyroid function tests in adults with Down's syndrome.	Thyroid status was studied in 24 patients above the age of 40 years with Down's syndrome. Three patients had thyroid function tests indicating hypothyroidism. Eight patients had thyroid autoantibodies in serum and 8 patients had a higher than normal level of thyroid stimulating hormone in serum. None of the patients had figures indicating thyrotoxicosis. None of the patients showed any of the clinical signs usually seen in patients with hypothyroidism. It is concluded that biochemical tests indicating hypothyroidism are much more often seen in patients with Down's syndrome than in normal subjects and that thyroid status should be assessed in old patients with this disease.
Low-normal concentrations of free thyroxin in serum in late pregnancy: physiological fact, not technical artefact.	Free thyroxin (FT4) concentrations, total thyroxin/thyroxin-binding globulin (T4/TBG) ratios, and thyrotropin (TSH) and albumin concentrations were measured in serum in a longitudinal study in each of the three trimesters of 25 normal pregnancies. In late pregnancy, FT4 estimates by assays reputedly either affected or unaffected by albumin were in the lower half of the reference range for nonpregnant subjects. T4/TBG ratios and albumin concentrations were similarly lower. FT4 overall was significantly (P less than 0.001) correlated with these latter two values. Serum TSH concentrations increased as FT4 declined in late pregnancy. Nonesterified fatty acid (NEFA) concentrations were too low to displace T4 from its binding proteins and were not correlated with other measurements. Within any one of the trimesters, FT4 and T4/TBG were independent of variations in TBG or albumin concentrations. This implies that lower FT4 concentrations in late pregnancy are real, merely coinciding with parallel decreases in albumin. They are not artefacts of albumin-affected assays.
TBG-dependency of age related variations of thyroxine and triiodothyronine.	Thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) were determined in healthy individuals ranging in age from newborn to 95 years. T4: 10.25 +/- 1.62 microng/100 ml, T3: 1.62 +/- 0.35 ng/ml and TBG: 1.34 +/- 0.15 mg/100 ml, were found elevated until puberty compared to a middle age group with T4: 7.27 +/- 2.26 microng/100 ml, T3: 1.15 +/- 0.24 ng/ml and TBG: 0.98 +/- 14 mg/100 ml. T4 and T3 followed almost TBG concentration. In old age is dissociation between T4: 5.79 +/- 1.56 microng/100 ml, T3: 0.79 +/- 0.21 ng/ml and TBG: 1.28 +/- 0.15 mg/100 ml was found. Except for old age the ratio T4/TBG and T3/TBG minimized the age dependent variation of T4 and T3 and reduced the coefficient of variance from 26% to 17.7% for T4 and from 26.5 to 25% for T3. Age reduction of T4/TBG is 15% and of T3/TBG 13% respectively more pronounced than for T4 and T3 alone. These data indicate: 1) age related variations of T4 and T3 due to age dependency of TBG, 2) deviation of T4 and T3 values in old age from that expected by their TBG levels and 3) the importance of the routine use of hormone/TBG ratio.
Effect of thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) in patients with pituitary disorders.	The secretion and biological activity of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) were studied in 22 patients with a pituitary tumour (17 acromegalics and 5 patients with a chromophobe adenoma) and in 36 hypophysectomized patients (16 acromegalics and 20 with a chromophobe adenoma). Thyroid function was assessed by serum thyroxine (T4), serum triiodothyronine (T3), and thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) concentration. Serum TSH was measured before and after injection of TSH releasing hormone (TRH), and in 19 hypophysectomized patients the T3 response after TRH was measured. In addition a TRH test was performed 1-2 weeks after surgery in 11 patients. The basal serum TSH did not differ from euthyroid control values in any of the groups and no late effect of hypophysectomy was observed. Subnormal peak TSH values were seen in 10 out of 37 euthyroid patients, whereas 9 out of 11 hypothyroid patients responded normally. Hypophysectomy caused an immediate but transient decrease in peak TSH in patients with a chromophobe adenoma only. The rise in serum T3 after TRH was significantly lower in hypophysectomized patients than in controls. An increase in TSH was followed by a T3 response in all patients except in 4 out of 8 euthyroid acromegalics. In patients operated on for a chromophobe adenoma the T3 response was correlated with serum T4, whereas this was not the case in acromegalics.
Direct and indirect parameters for free thyroxine. II. Diagnostic accuracy in disorders of thyroid function and binding protein anomalies]	Part II of the study concerning the clinical applicability of direct and indirect parameters for free thyroxine evaluates the diagnostic accuracy of the FT4-RIAs ImmoPhase, GammaCoat, Liquisol, Amerlex and LisoPhase in relation to FT4 index and T4/TBG ratio. This comparison of methods is done on a thoroughly classified collection (n = 640) of patients with normal and impaired thyroid function including patients with binding protein anomalies (pregnancy, estrogen-medication, phenytoin therapy, renal protein loss). FT4 normal ranges of a given kit harmonize well with data of the manufacturers and of the literature. On the other hand, the normal ranges of the various kits are not comparable. The differentiation of euthyroidism from hyper- or hypothyroidism can be made without problems using any of these methods, with the exception of the FT4-RIA GammaCoat. As expected, patients with euthyroid goiter show, on the average, slightly lower parameters for FT4. In pregnancy all direct and indirect parameters for FT4 have a tendency to lower values after the first trimester. This trend is most distinct for the T4/TBG ratio. A weak negative correlation of FT4 parameters with basal TSH, which does not exceed the upper normal range, however, can be interpreted in the sense of a relative hypothyroxinemia. Under contraceptive estrogen medication FT4 parameters do not fall outside the normal range, with the exception of the FT4-RIA ImmoPhase assay which yields a significantly increased frequency of high FT4 levels. On therapy with phenytoin FT4 values are generally lower than in controls. FT4 parameters in patients with renal protein loss of more than 2 g daily do not behave uniformly. While three of the FT4-RIAs tested (ImmoPhase, GammaCoat, Amerlex) show a tendency to lower values, the results of the remaining FT4 parameters do not differ significantly from the distribution of normals. The study leads to the conclusion that indirect FT4 parameters are still useful in the diagnosis of thyroid function; currently available FT4 radioimmunoassays may yield comparable results. With regard to the varying quality of the various commercial test kits, the choice between FT4-RIAs and indirect FT4 parameters does not depend primarily on clinical but on technical viewpoints.
