Dualistic effects of thyroid hormone on a human hepatoma cell line: inhibition of thyroxine-binding globulin synthesis and stimulation of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein synthesis.	In order to examine the action of thyroid hormone on the secretory proteins of the liver, we investigated the effects of thyroid hormones on the synthesis of T4-binding globulin (TBG), alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (AGP), and albumin in a human hepatoblastoma cell line, Hep G2. Hep G2 cells grown to be confluent in medium with 10% fetal calf serum were further cultured in serum-free medium for 4 days, and followed by treatment with hormones for 2 days changing the medium every 24 h. On day 2 (the second 24 h of hormone treatment), about 30% of TBG accumulation was inhibited by 10(-12) M T3 and 50% was inhibited by 10(-8) M T3, although no change was observed on day 1 (the first 24 h of hormone treatment). This inhibitory effect of T3 closely resembled the effect of T3 on [35S]methionine-labeled TBG synthesis by the cells incubated for 3 h after 42 h of pretreatment. About 30-55% of the newly synthesized [35S]TBG immunoprecipitated with anti-TBG serum was inhibited by 10(-8) M T3. These results showed that thyroid hormone inhibited TBG synthesis in Hep G2 cells. On the other hand, T3 stimulated the accumulation of AGP in the media on day 1 (140% of control by 10(-8) M T3), and the effect increased drastically on day 2 (250% of control by 10(-8) M T3). No effect of T3 on albumin accumulation or total protein synthesis was seen. The concentrations of T4 which had significant effects on TBG and AGP accumulation were 10 and 10(3) times higher than those of T3, respectively. In conclusion, thyroid hormone has dualistic effects on the secretory proteins synthesized by a human hepatoblastoma cell line: physiological concentrations of thyroid hormones decrease the synthesis of TBG, but increase the synthesis of AGP.
Circulating thyroid hormone levels and adequacy of dialysis.	In vitro thyroid function tests were performed in three groups of patients with chronic renal failure who were receiving, on average, 15, 18 and 27 hours of maintenance hemodialysis per week. Total thyroxine levels were low and total triiodothyronine levels low to normal in those receiving the least dialysis (15 hours), and were significantly higher in those receiving longer dialysis. Free thyroxine levels, as measured by the effective thyroxine ratio, were normal and similar in all three groups, as were serum thyrotrophin levels. All patients were clinically euthyroid. As total hormone levels showed a significant inverse relationship to both urea and creatinine, this study suggests that there is a dialyzable metabolite retained in uremia which competes with thyroid hormones for protein-binding sites.
