Mimicry in primary rat hepatocyte cultures of the in vivo perivenous induction by phenobarbital of cytochrome P-450 2B1 mRNA: role of epidermal growth factor and perivenous oxygen tension.	Treatment of male rats with phenobarbital (PB) results in a perivenous and mid-zonal pattern of cytochrome P-450 (CYP)2B1 mRNA expression within the liver acinus. The mechanism of this zonated induction is still poorly understood. In this study sinusoidal gradients of oxygen and epidermal growth factor (EGF) besides those of the pituitary-dependent hormones growth hormone (GH), thyroxine (T4), and triiodothyronine (T3) were considered to be possible determinants for the zonated induction of the CYP2B1 gene in liver. Moreover, heme proteins seem to play a key role in oxygen sensing. Therefore, the influence of arterial (16% O2) and venous (8% O2) oxygen tension (pO2), and of the heme synthesis inhibitors CoCl2 and desferrioxamine (DSF) on PB-dependent CYP2B1 mRNA induction as well as the repression by EGF and, for comparison, by GH, T4, and T3, of the induction under arterial and venous pO2 were investigated in primary rat hepatocytes. Within 3 days, phenobarbital induced CYP2B1 mRNA to maximal levels under arterial pO2 and to about 40% of maximal levels under venous pO2. CoCl2 annihilated induction by PB under both oxygen tensions, whereas desferrioxamine and heme abolished the positive modulation by O2, suggesting that heme is a necessary component for O2 sensing. EGF suppressed CYP2B1 mRNA induction by PB only under arterial but not under venous pO2, whereas GH, T4, and T3 inhibited induction under both arterial and venous pO2. Thus, in hepatocyte cultures, an O2 gradient in conjunction with EGF mimicked the perivenous induction by PB of the CYP2B1 gene observed in the liver in vivo.
Microsomal long-chain acyl-CoA thioesterase (carboxylesterase ES-4) is regulated by thyroxine.	Long chain acyl-CoA thioesterase activity is mainly located in microsomes after subcellular fractionation of liver from untreated rats. The physiological function and regulation of expression of this activity is not known. In the present study we have investigated the effect of thyroxine on expression of carboxylesterase ES-4, the major acyl-CoA thioesterase of liver microsomes. Thyroidectomy of rats decreased the palmitoyl-CoA thioesterase activity to about 25% of normal activity. This decrease was accompanied by similar decreases at the protein and mRNA levels (31% and 57%, respectively, of controls). Treatment with thyroxine completely reversed the effect of thyroidectomy and resulted in elevated levels in both thyroidectomized and control rats. For reasons of comparison we also studied the possibility that ES-10 and ES-2, two other members of the same gene family, are affected by thyroxine. ES-10 was not changed at the protein or mRNA level by any of the treatments, while ES-2 expression in liver was decreased by thyroxine treatment. The data shows that changes in activity and expression of ES-4 correlate to thyroxine status in the rat suggesting a physiological regulatory role by this hormone. Since thyroxine regulates the expression of lipogenic enzymes, these results are consistent with a function for this microsomal acyl-CoA thioesterase in fatty acid synthesis and/or secretion, rather than in oxidative degradation of fatty acids.
Neurohormonal peptides, serotonin, and nitric oxide synthase in the enteric nervous system and endocrine cells of the gastrointestinal tract of neotenic and thyroid hormone-treated axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum).	Immunoreactivity against vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), neurotensin (NT), substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), gastrin/cholecystokinin (GAS/CCK), somatostatin (SOM), serotonin (SER), and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was investigated in the gastrointestinal tract of the urodele Ambystoma mexicanum, the axolotl, by the use of immunohistochemical techniques. The study also compares the distribution patterns and frequencies of the neurohormones, and NOS in neotenic and thyroxine-treated (metamorphosed) individuals. GAS/CCK, SP, NT, SOM, and SER immunoreactivities occurred in endocrine mucosal cells and VIP, SP, CGRP, NTSER, SER, and NOS immunoreactivities in the enteric nervous system. The GAS/CCK-immunoreactive (-IR) cells were restricted to the upper small intestine. NT-IR and SP-IR endocrine cells were found in the entire gastrointestinal tract and were most prominent in the distal large intestine. The density of the SOM-IR cells decreased from the stomach toward the large intestine. SER-IR endocrine cells were found throughout the gastrointestinal tract, with particularly high densities in the stomach and distal large intestine. The VIP-IR enteric nerve fibers were the most prominent ones, present in all layers of the entire gastrointestinal tract, and supplied the smooth muscle and the vasculature. The SER-IR fibers exhibited similar distribution patterns but were less numerous. Very few NT-IR but many SP-IR fibers were found in the muscle and submucosal layers. The NT-IR fibers mainly supplied blood vessels, while the SP-IR fibers were also in contact with the smooth muscle. In the muscle and submucosal layers, CGRP-IR fibers were associated to the vasculature; CGRP immunoreactivity occurred also in a minority of SP-IR fibers. NOS-IR nerve fibers were in contact with submucosal arteries but were the least frequent. After metamorphosis provoked by exogenous thyroxine, the number of SOM-IR endocrine cells in the stomach mucosa was increased as well as the density of VIP-IR, SER-IR, and SP-IR nerve fibers in the gastrointestinal tract. It is proposed that the observed increases may reflect refinements of the neurohormonal system after metamorphosis.
Modulation of liver mitochondrial NOS is implicated in thyroid-dependent regulation of O(2) uptake.	Changes in O(2) uptake at different thyroid status have been explained on the basis of the modulation of mitochondrial enzymes and membrane biophysical properties. Regarding the nitric oxide (NO) effects, we tested whether liver mitochondrial nitric oxide synthase (mtNOS) participates in the modulation of O(2) uptake in thyroid disorders. Wistar rats were inoculated with 400 microCi (131)I (hypothyroid group), 20 microg thyroxine (T(4))/100 g body wt administered daily for 2 wk (hyperthyroid group) or vehicle (control). Basal metabolic rate, mitochondrial function, and mtNOS activity were analyzed. Systemic and liver mitochondrial O(2) uptake and cytochrome oxidase activity were lower in hypothyroid rats with respect to controls; mitochondrial parameters were further decreased by L-arginine (-42 and -34%, P < 0.05), consistent with 5- to 10-fold increases in matrix NO concentration. Accordingly, mtNOS expression (75%) and activity (260%) were selectively increased in hypothyroidism and reverted by hormone replacement without changes in other nitric oxide isoforms. Moreover, mtNOS activity correlated with serum 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T(3)) and O(2) uptake. Increased mtNOS activity was also observed in skeletal muscle mitochondria from hypothyroid rats. Therefore, we suggest that modulation of mtNOS is a substantial part of thyroid effects on mitochondrial O(2) uptake.
Thyroxine prevents reoxygenation injury in isolated proximal tubule cells.	Ischemia is characterized by cessation of blood flow and oxygen delivery to tissues that results in disruption of cellular structure and organelles. However, restoration of blood flow following ischemia causes reperfusion injury, characterized by further damage in the tissues mediated by reactive oxygen species. In the kidney, reactive oxygen molecules have been implicated in ischemic, toxic and immunological glomerular damage. Thyroxine has been shown to be cytoprotective in toxic and ischemic injury. Thyroxine's cytoprotective effect is postulated to be secondary to stimulation of intracellular ATP synthesis. However, the underlying mechanism of that beneficial effect remains to be investigated. In this study we investigated the effect of thyroxine (T4) on free oxygen radical production in an in vitro model of reperfusion injury. Free oxygen radical (FOR) levels were determined by a chemiluminescence method after freshly isolated rabbit proximal tubule cells were subjected to 15 min of anoxia followed by 45 min of reoxygenation. Reoxygenation injury resulted in a significant increase in FOR levels (P<0.0001). FOR levels were significantly lower in the group treated with thyroxine (P=0.01) and cells treated with thyroxine displayed better preservation of cellular structure. We conclude that thyroxine's cytoprotective effect might be via decreased synthesis of FOR, and thyroxine treatment may confer cytoprotection in renal conditions characterized by FOR-mediated injury.
Identification of the putative MAP kinase docking site in the thyroid hormone receptor-beta1 DNA-binding domain: functional consequences of mutations at the docking site.	In CV-1 cells transfected with wild-type (wt) nuclear thyroid hormone receptor TRbeta1 (TR), L-thyroxine (T(4)) causes activation and nuclear translocation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK, ERK1/2), co-immunoprecipitation of MAPK and TR, and MAPK-dependent serine phosphorylation of TR. In the present studies, we have identified (1) the likely site of TR serine phosphorylation in the TR DNA-binding domain (DBD) by T(4)-activated MAPK, (2) the site of MAPK docking on TR induced by T(4), and (3) functional consequences of TR docking site and serine phosphorylation site mutations on co-repressor and co-activator binding and on transcriptional activation by wt and mutant receptors in T(4)-treated cells. Plasmids containing TR(wt), serine 142-substituted TR (TR(S142A) or TR(S142E)), TR(K128A), TR(R132A), or TR(R133A) were transfected into CV-1 cells, and the cells were treated with 10(-7) M T(4) for 30 min. Activated MAPK was present in nuclear fractions of all T(4)-treated cells and co-immunoprecipitated prominently with TR(wt), TR(S142A), and TR(S142E). TR(K128A) complexing with activated MAPK was minimally detectable, but no association of MAPK with TR(R132A) or TR(R133A) was seen in cells treated with T(4). Serine phosphorylation of TR(wt), but not of any mutants, occurred with T(4). In in vitro phosphorylation studies, constitutively activated MAPK phosphorylated only TR(wt). We concluded that serine 142 of the TR DBD is the likely site of phosphorylation by T(4)-activated MAPK and that the docking site on TR for activated MAPK includes residues 128-133 (KGFFRR), a basic amino acid-enriched motif novel for MAPK substrates. TR mutations in the proposed MAPK docking domain and at residue 142 modulated T(4)-conditioned shedding of co-repressor and recruitment of co-activator proteins by the receptor, and they altered transcriptional activity of TR in a thyroid hormone response element-luciferase reporter assay.
Neurobiology of molt in avian species.	Postnuptial molt is the major molt that occurs in most wild and domestic avian species each year. The process is much more than the replacement of feathers. Studies have shown that a significant increase in metabolic rate, increase in whole body protein synthesis, osteoporosis, loss of body fat, and a suppression of the immune system occur during this event of a bird's annual cycle. Several procedures have been developed to initiate feather replacement, and this review addresses hormonal and neuropeptide treatments that effected molt. The administration of thyroxine, progesterone, gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist, and prolactin were examined. Of the four, the two most effective were thyroxine and prolactin administration. The neural modulators known to release thyroxine and prolactin, respectively, are thyroid hormone releasing hormone (TRH) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). To gain insight into the possible functions of VIP and TRH, the distribution of these neuromodulators and their terminal fields were reviewed in the avian brain. It was found that VIP-containing neurons and fibers identified a neural system in birds comparable to the visceral forebrain system (VFS) described in mammals. The VFS functions to regulate the balance of the autonomic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system and, therefore, the VFS have been proposed to regulate the many behavioral and physiological events in the annual cycle of a bird, including postnuptial molt. In contrast to VIP that has an extensive brain distribution throughout the forebrain and brainstem, TRH is relatively restrictive and has a main concentration in nerve cells in and about the paraventricular nucleus, a key neural component of the VFS. Due to the roll of TRH in regulating the thyroid axis and operating within the framework of the VFS, it is proposed that the peptide functions to shift the balance of the autonomic nervous system in the direction of the sympathetic nervous system. A shift toward the dominance of the sympathetic nervous system appears to be required during this phase of a bird's yearly cycle.
Oxidative stress by inorganic arsenic: modulation by thyroid hormones in rat.	Arsenic toxicity is attributed mainly to lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. We therefore studied the modulatory effects of thyroid hormones on arsenic toxicity in rat on lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Thyroid hormones, through a mechanism unknown at present, inhibit arsenic accumulation in liver and kidney. Mobilization of arsenic apparently diminishes lipid peroxidation and improves reduced glutathione status, two biochemical demands of combating arsenic toxicity. Results are discussed in reference to the effect of thyroid hormones on microsomal metabolism of arsenic. Arsenic is less toxic in hyperthyroid than in hypothyroid rats. A physiological antagonism between arsenic and thyroxine is discussed.
The effect of thyroid hormone on generation of free radicals by neutrophils and alveolar macrophages.	We have sometimes observed the case of bronchial asthma accompanied by hyperthyroidism. But the pathophysiological mechanisms of both diseases remain obscure. In this study, we have shown that thyroid hormone directly stimulated the generation of superoxide anion by neutrophils and alveolar macrophages. In addition, neutrophils incubated with thyroid hormone became activated and generated greater amount of superoxide anion in response to f-met-leu-phe (fMLP) and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). Our study suggests, for the first time, that reactive oxygen species may play one of the most important roles in exacerbating asthma in hyperthyroid patients.
Thyroid hormone affects the hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids in the rat hypothalamus.	We have attempted to elucidate the effect of thyroid hormone on phospholipase C-linked inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in the rat hypothalamus. Hypothalamic slices of each animal, euthyroid control, hypothyroid, and thyroxine (T4)-supplemented hypothyroid rats were labeled with [3H]myoinositol in the presence of 5 mM LiCl, and then incubated for 60 min in KHG buffer containing either vehicle or 1 mM ouabain, a Na-K ATPase inhibitor. Hypothyroidism caused a significant increase in both basal and ouabain-stimulated accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphate ([3H]IP) in hypothalamic slices, whereas supplement with T4 to hypothyroid rats resulted in a complete restoration of hypothalamic [3H]IP formation to the value of euthyroid control. The present results indicate that thyroid hormone affects phospholipase C-linked inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in the hypothalamus, suggesting that negative feedback action of thyroid hormone may occur at a post-receptor site in the hypothalamus.
Effects of thyroxine and methimazolum on monamine transmitters in preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area and peripheral serum in rats]	The contents of monamine transmitters in preoptic/anterior hypothalamic (PO/AH) area and in the serum of rats injected with thyroxine (T4, 1 mg/100 g body wt/d, for 10 d, hypodermic i.) and fed with methimazolum (10 mg/100 g body wt/d, for 15 d) were assayed by high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detector (HPLC-ECD). It was found that the content of dopamine and homovanillic acid in PO/AH area showed significant increase (P less than 0.01) associated with a slight rise (P greater than 0.05) of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and with no change of norepinephrine in the thyroxine group. After fed with methimazolum, the content of norepinephrine decreased significantly (P less than 0.05), but no obvious changes occurred in dopamine, homovanillic acid, 5-HT and 5-HIAA. By synchronous analysing of monamine transmitters in peripheral serum, it was showed that there was no significant linear relationship between the changes of monamine transmitters in the brain and in the serum. The correlation between thyroxine and methimazolum on the content of monamine transmitters and on the change of body temperature was also discussed.
Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate and thyroid hormone control of uncoupling protein messenger ribonucleic acid in freshly dispersed brown adipocytes.	We intend to develop in vitro model systems to study the hormonal regulation of uncoupling protein (UCP) and its role in brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis. We report here that UCP mRNA responses to adrenergic and thyroid hormone manipulations in freshly dispersed, mature brown adipocytes mimic in vivo observations. Studies were performed in brown adipocytes obtained from interscapular brown fat of euthyroid or hypothyroid rats. The tissue was dispersed with collagenase, and cells were isolated by floatation over 4% BSA. UCP mRNA in these cells is 2-3 times more abundant than that in the whole tissue, indicating a selection of cells expressing the gene. In cells from euthyroid rats, UCP mRNA is maximally elevated within 2 h of exposure to 1 microM forskolin and 50 ng T3/ml (77 nM total, 0.43 nM free). T3 significantly enhances the effect of forskolin. In the absence of stimulation, UCP mRNA rapidly disappears from euthyroid brown adipocytes, and this can be prevented with the addition of T3 by a mechanism not requiring on-going transcription. In cells from hypothyroid rats, forskolin or isoproterenol plus phenylephrine fail to stimulate UCP mRNA, but within 3 h of exposure to T3, cells recover full responsiveness. As in vivo, a high extracellular concentration of T3 is required for maximal responsiveness of UCP mRNA to cAMP, while T4 can restore responsiveness in physiological concentrations (40 pM). This effect of T4 is prevented by iopanoic acid, a compound that blocks the type II T4 5'-deiodinase. In conclusion, 1) freshly dispersed brown adipocytes retain all of the properties concerning UCP regulation by thyroid hormone and sympathetic nervous system described for brown fat in vivo; 2) the observations made in vivo, thus, represent direct action of norepinephrine and thyroid hormone on these cells; 3) as in vivo, T4 is a better source of intracellular T3 than extracellular T3 for brown adipocytes; hence, the in vivo findings are the result of the cell biology of 5'-deiodinase type II rather than dynamic factors inherent to the in vivo condition; 4) stabilization of mature UCP mRNA by T3 is an important mechanism to maintain the levels of this mRNA elevated under sustained stimulation; and 5) dispersed brown adipocytes and UCP gene products constitute a powerful model to study interactions between the sympathetic nervous system and thyroid hormone at a cellular or molecular level.
Spatial, temporal, and hormonal regulation of epidermal keratin expression during development of the frog, Xenopus laevis.	To study the mechanism of hormone-induced keratin expression in the epidermis during Xenopus metamorphosis, a monospecific antibody was raised against a unique carboxy-terminal peptide of the 63-kDa keratin. Immunohistological analysis demonstrated that the onset of 63-kDa keratin expression showed distinct regional and temporal differences. The expression started at stage 54 in the hindlimb epidermis, at stage 57 in the head, and over 1 month later at stage 63 in the tail. The amount of 63-kDa keratin was further regulated during epidermal stratification and differentiation. The 63-kDa keratin was expressed first in basal epidermal cells before stratification began. The outer layer of the larval epidermis (periderm) did not express the 63-kDa keratin. As the cells moved out of basal layer, they stained more intensely with the anti-keratin antibody indicating that 63-kDa keratin synthesis is up-regulated during differentiation. Similar results were obtained with cultures of purified epidermal cells grown in high calcium conditions. Since we have shown that thyroid hormone (T3) induces 63-kDa keratin gene expression and hydrocortisone (HC) modulates T3 action we examined the effects of T3 and HC at the single cell level with the anti-keratin antibody. Immunostaining demonstrated that T3 alone and T3 plus HC increased the number of 63-kDa keratin-positive cells as well as the amount of 63-kDa keratin per cell. Unexpectedly these hormones had the same effects on head and tail epidermal cells even though the latter cells degenerate during metamorphosis. The major difference between tail and head cells was that the percentage 63-kDa keratin-producing cells was much greater in the head than in the tail.
Influence of thyroparathyroidectomy and thyroxine replacement on Cu and Zn cellular distribution and on the metallothionein level and induction in rats.	Thyroid hormones are involved in copper and zinc distribution in rat tissues. We examined the influence of thyroparathyroidectomy (TPTY) and of a replacement therapy by T4 on Cu and Zn organ distribution. MT levels were also measured both in basal conditions and after induction by cadmium. The results confirm that a lack of T4 modified Cu and Zn in serum and tissues. In serum, TPTY increased Cu (+15%) and ceruloplasmin (+18%), and decreased Zn (-18%). In tissues, Cu was altered in liver (+13%), kidney (-24%), heart (-16%) duodenum (-18%), and Zn in liver (+25%) and kidney (-10%). The soluble fractions (100,000 g supernatant) were mainly affected in liver and kidney, and the subcellular fractions in heart and duodenum. MT levels were modified in basal conditions only in liver (+57%) and kidney (-36%). T4 administration partially prevented the effect of TPTY on both elements and MT concentrations. Therefore, no evidence is provided for a direct role of T4 in the metabolism of MT in a way comparable to the effects of glucocorticoids. However, MT could mediate the consequences of TPTY on metal distribution in certain organs, such as liver and kidney.
Differential regulation by growth hormone (GH) of insulin-like growth factor I and GH receptor/binding protein gene expression in rat liver.	We have reported that female hypophysectomized (hypox) rats replaced with T4 and cortisone and treated for 7 days with GH injections (4 x 12.5 micrograms/day) had significantly greater growth and increase in serum insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) than did hypox rats continuously infused with GH (50 and 250 micrograms/day), whereas GH binding to liver membranes was increased only by infusion. We now report the effects of hypophysectomy, T4 and cortisone replacement, and the aforementioned continuous vs. intermittent GH treatment on liver IGF-I and GH receptor (GHR)/binding protein (GHBP) gene expression in female rats. Concentrations of IGF-I peptide were measured in acid-extracted sera and liver tissues. Total GH binding to liver membranes was determined in MgCl2-treated homogenates and serum GH binding activity was assessed by gel filtration of serum incubated with 125I-bovine GH. The abundance of messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts encoding IGF-I, the GHR, and the GHBP was quantified by Northern hybridization analysis of liver poly(A)+ RNA. Hypophysectomy in female animals decreased serum IGF-I and liver IGF-I mRNA concentrations by 95% and 87%, respectively, serum GHBP activity, and total liver GH binding by 50% (P less than 0.001 compared with intact controls), and liver GHR and GHBP mRNA abundance by 30-35% (P less than 0.05 vs. controls). These changes were not reversed by T4 and cortisone treatment. Repeated injections of GH produced a 13-fold increase in liver IGF-I peptide and a 5-fold increase in liver IGF-I mRNA concentrations (vs. saline-treated hypox rats), whereas continuous GH infusions induced only 7-fold and 2-fold increases in IGF-I peptide and mRNA, respectively. Serum GHBP activity was not changed in the GH-injected animals, but rose 2- to 3-fold in the GH-infused rats, an increase similar to that reported for their liver GH binding sites. No major change in liver concentrations of GHR and GHBP mRNAs was seen after repeated GH injections. Differential regulation of the two GHR/GHBP gene products was observed after continuous infusion of GH, with a net 60-70% increase in liver GHBP mRNA abundance contrasting with no apparent change in the GHR mRNA transcript. These results indicate that pulsatile GH administration is more effective than continuous GH infusion in stimulating liver IGF-I gene expression, and this effect is not mediated by an increase in GHR mRNA or protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cardiac myosin. Phylogenic and pathological changes.	Several proteins of the sarcomere differ from one muscle to the other, but it is also becoming evident that cardiac myosin, tropomyosin and troponin are species specific. Moreover, several properties of cardiac myosin could be modified under the influence of thyroxine, exercise, or overloading. These changes are closely related to the speed of shortening of the muscle and to the degree of stimulation of protein synthesis, but nobody is presently able to say if, in heart overloading, the modifications of myosin are a primary defect which is the origin of the failure or if they are only expressing a better adaptation of myocardial efficiency to the decrease of work.
Influence of thyroxine on serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor alpha levels in thyroid disorders.	Activation of cell-mediated immunity by soluble interleukin-2 receptor alpha (sIL-2Ralpha) release is well documented. The aim of this study was to measure serum concentrations of sIL-2Ralpha in patients with autoimmune and non-autoimmune thyroid disorders in different stages of thyroid function, before and after administration of l-thyroxine (l-T4) and its discontinuation as well as before and during methimazole administration.
Elevation in serum thyroglobulin during prolonged Antarctic residence: effect of thyroxine supplement in the polar 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine syndrome.	Extended Antarctic residence (AR) is associated with an increase in serum TSH, a decrease in free T(4), and an increase in T(3) production and clearance. It is not clear whether these adaptations reflect changes in clearance alone or whether intrinsic thyroidal synthetic activity also changes. Thyroglobulin (Tg) secretion is an independent marker of intrinsic thyroid activity whose kinetics are independent of those of T(3) and T(4). In this study we examined changes in Tg levels in healthy subjects before and during AR and their responses to thyroid supplementation to help determine whether alterations in thyroid activity, and not just kinetics of clearance, underlie the changes seen with the polar T(3) syndrome. In cohort 1, we compared measurements of TSH and Tg in 12 subjects before deployment and monthly for 11 months during AR. In cohort 2, we compared the same measurements in 12 subjects monthly for 11 months of AR. Subjects were randomized to receive either placebo or levothyroxine in cohort 1 for 7 months and in cohort 2 for 11 months. Tg increased over baseline during the first 4 months of AR by 17.0 +/- 4.6% and after 7 more months by 31.7 +/- 4.3% over baseline in the placebo group of both cohorts (P < 0.0002). When L-T(4) was taken, Tg returned to a value not different from baseline (4.5 +/- 3.9%). The percent changes from baseline in serum TSH and Tg during AR were highly correlated (P < 0.00003) in the placebo group for both cohorts. The rise in Tg with TSH and the reduction in Tg with L-T(4) provide evidence of target tissue response to TSH and further confirm the TSH rise as physiologically significant. The results also suggest that the adaptive changes in thyroid hormone economy with AR reflect TSH-dependent changes in thyroid synthetic activity, which may help explain a portion of the increases in T(3) production found with AR.
Characteristics of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3)-uptake system of tadpole red blood cells: effect of endocrine-disrupting chemicals on cellular T3 response.	We characterized the 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine (T3)- uptake system on the plasma membrane of Rana catesbeiana tadpole red blood cells (RBCs) in the presence of a variety of inhibitors and potentially competing amino acids. Saturable [125I]T3 uptake was inhibited by phloretin, monodansylcadaverine, bromosulfophthalein, sodium taurocholate and tryptophan. Saturable uptake obeyed simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics with an apparent Km of 110 nM and a Vmax of 2.5 pmol/min per 10(6) cells at 23 degrees C. These results suggested that a large proportion of T3 transported into RBCs was mediated by the aromatic amino acid transporter (System T)-linked transporter. To investigate the effect of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) on [125I]T3 uptake, RBCs were incubated with [125I]T3 in the presence of each chemical. Among the test chemicals, di-n-butyl phthalate, n-butylbenzyl phthalate and the miticide, dicofol, were the most powerful inhibitors of [125I]T3 uptake, with an IC50 of 2.2 microM, which was one order of magnitude greater than that for T3 (IC50, 0.14 microM), and diethylstilbestrol and ethinylestradiol were modest inhibitors. Tributyltin accelerated saturable initial [125I]T3 uptake by 2-fold at 3.2 microM. When RBCs were cultured with 10 nM T3 at 25 degrees C for 2 days in the presence of monodansylcadaverine, ethinylestradiol, ioxynil or dicofol at the defined concentrations, these compounds inhibited significantly the induction of the thyroid hormone receptor alpha gene by T3. However, not all chemicals competed with T3 binding to the receptor at the same concentrations. Our results raise the possibility that the T3-uptake system on the plasma membrane of the tadpole RBCs could be a candidate target site for some EDCs and can modulate cellular T3 response.
Ontogeny of epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha, epidermal growth factor receptor, and thyroid hormone receptor RNA levels in rat kidney and changes in those levels induced by early thyroxine treatment.	Ontogenic changes in the mRNA levels of epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor-alpha, EGF receptor, and thyroid hormone receptor (r-erbA) were examined in developing rat kidneys. The mRNA levels of both EGF and thyroid hormone receptor rose dramatically during the postnatal period with the rise in thyroid hormone receptor message preceding the rise in EGF message. In addition, we examined renal mRNA levels in 1-wk-old rats treated with thyroxine (T4) from birth through d 6. Neonatal T4 treatment augmented the renal mRNA levels of EGF but decreased the levels of EGF-receptor and transforming growth factor-alpha. T4 treatment did not significantly affect the levels of renal mRNA for thyroid hormone receptor. Although the EGF and transforming growth factor-alpha peptides are similar and interact with the same receptor, our findings indicate that these homologous growth factors are regulated differently during development. In addition, hormones that influence growth and development, such as T4, may function both as positive and negative regulators of growth factor expression.
Brown adipose tissue thermogenesis in T3-treated rats.	T4 treatment results in an inactivation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) which has been attributed to a reduced need of thermoregulatory heat production. Since T3 formation in brown adipocytes is governed by a type II T4 5'-deiodinase which is inhibited by T4, we analyzed the possibility that results obtained by T4 treatment were due to a lack of T3 in the tissue. Hyperthyroidism was induced in adult rats by administration of T3 (50 micrograms/kg body weight daily s.c.). Euthyroid and hyperthyroid rats were maintained at 23 degrees C or exposed at 6 degrees C for 3 weeks. Hyperthyroid rats at 23 degrees C showed an increase in BAT mass and in DNA and total lipids contents; however, BAT thermogenic activity was depressed. BAT from cold-exposed hyperthyroid rats showed the same mass and DNA content than at 23 degrees C, but it showed an increase in thermogenic activity, this increase being lower than in cold-exposed euthyroid rats. We conclude that high levels of T3 in BAT do not stimulate the thermogenic activity of the tissue. On the contrary, they inhibit it in response to lower requirements of facultative thermogenesis, both at 23 degrees C and at 6 degrees C.
Decrease of arterial stiffness at common carotid artery in hypothyroid patients by normalization of thyroid function.	This study examined the effect of hypothyroidism on arterial stiffening and the effect of levothyroxine (l-T(4)) replacement. The arterial stiffness index beta (stiffness beta) and intima-media thickness (IMT), a parameter of arterial stiffening and thickening, respectively, were determined in common carotid artery (CCA) by ultrasonography in 30 hypothyroid patients before and after 1 year of normalization of thyroid function by l-T(4) replacement. Baseline CCA stiffness beta and IMT was significantly higher in the hypothyroid patients than in age- and sex-matched normal controls [9.46 +/- 0.93 vs. 8.02 +/- 0.91 (mean +/- SE); P < 0.05, 0.635 +/- 0.018 mm vs. 0.541 +/- 0.019 mm; P < 0.005, respectively]. In multivariate analysis, baseline stiffness beta was significantly associated with baseline levels of IMT (r = 0.457, P = 0.0311), FT(4) (r = -0.413, P = 0.0169), and a plasma vascular injury marker, von Willebrand factor (vWF) (r = 0.412, P = 0.0261). During 1 year of euthyroidism, 22 and 29 out of 30 patients showed significant decreases of stiffness beta and IMT to normal respective level, from 9.46 +/- 0.93 to 7.58 +/- 0.34 and from 0.635 +/- 0.018 to 0.552 +/- 0.015 mm, respectively. Change in stiffness beta during l-T(4) therapy correlated significantly in a negative manner with baseline levels of age (r = -0.465, P = 0.011) and IMT (r = -0.406, P = 0.029). Stiffness beta after but not before l-T(4) therapy showed a tendency towards a positive correlation with age. This study suggested that increases of arterial thickening, and plasma vWF, and a reduction in serum FT(4) might have an important role independently in the increased arterial stiffening in hypothyroid patients. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that sustained euthyroidism might have the potential to reverse arterial stiffening in addition to thickening in hypothyroid patients.
Production of symmetrical flatfish by controlling the timing of thyroid hormone treatment in spotted halibut Verasper variegatus.	The thyroid hormone plays an essential role in the metamorphosis in flatfish, during which external asymmetry (for example, eye relocation and pigmentation) is established. However, no information is available on the expression mechanisms of metamorphic asymmetry. Since the presence of malformed juveniles (having either ocular or blind side characteristics on both sides) was known in spotted halibut (Verasper variegatus), the effect of the timing of thyroid hormone treatment was investigated. When thyroxine (T4, 10 or 30 ng/ml) was administered to the hypothyroid larvae (continuously receiving 30 microg/ml thiourea) from 25 days after hatching (DAH), the occurrence of one type of symmetrical juvenile (symmetrical pseudoalbino having blind side characteristics on both sides) increased to more than three times, and the occurrence was significantly greater than that observed in the control group. In the fish in which T4 treatment was initiated prior to 15 DAH or after 60 DAH, the occurrence of another type of symmetrical juvenile (symmetrical ambicolorate having ocular side characteristics on both sides) became more than two times, and its occurrence was significantly greater than that observed in the control group. These results suggest that both sides of the larval body independently possess the potential to become either the ocular or the blind side of the juvenile body and that the timing of thyroid hormone increase is the determining factor of "which side to become." Based on previous studies, since thyroid hormone is expected to induce blind side characteristics, the differential responsiveness to thyroid hormone-longer in the left side (blind side in normal juvenile) than the right-is strongly suggested as the central mechanism for metamorphic asymmetry in spotted halibut.
The pituitary-thyroid axis effects on ocular and orbital tissues: a histological, histochemical, and morphometric study.	This work tests the notion that the effect of thyroid hormone on orbital and ocular tissues is mediated through its action on their lysosomal enzymes. Hyperthyroidism was produced in guinea pigs by thyroxin and TSH; hypothyroidism was induced by thiouracil. After treatment for 10 to 21 days, several ocular and orbital tissues were taken for histological, morphometrical, and histochemical examinations. High acid phosphatase activity was demonstrated in extraocular muscles, optic nerve and the retinal pigment epithelium of thyroxine- and TSH-treated animals. The findings fit the notion that the effects of thyroid hormones are mediated through lysosomes also in ocular and orbital tissues.
Trophic effects of hypophyseal hormones on resistance vessels and the heart in normotensive and renal hypertensive rats.	Arterial pressure is an important determinant of cardiovascular structure and relates positively to it. The purpose of this study was to determine whether pituitary hormones influence the relation of pressure and structure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, aged 5 weeks, were studied in three groups: the first underwent hypophysectomy; the second was hypophysectomized but received replacement therapy with growth hormone and thyroxine; the third served as controls. Four days later half of each group underwent unilateral renal artery clipping, the other half serving as normotensive controls. For 5 weeks estimates were made of systolic blood pressure, heart rate, body weight and plasma renin activity. Rats were then killed; left ventricular, kidney and adrenal weights were determined and, using hindquarter perfusion, estimates were made of resistance at maximal dilatation (reflecting inner radius), and of maximal pressor response (reflecting wall thickness).
Abnormalities of the thyroid hormone negative feedback regulation of TSH secretion in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) are characterized by several neuroendocrine abnormalities including a chronic hypersecretion of thyrotropin (TSH) of unknown etiology. We hypothesized that the inappropriately high TSH secretion in SHR may be the result of an impaired thyroid hormone negative feedback regulation of hypothalamic thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and/or pituitary TSH production. To test this hypothesis, SHR or their normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls were treated with either methimazole (0.02% in drinking water) to induce hypothyroidism or administered L-thyroxine (T4) at a dose of 0.8 or 2.0 micrograms/100 g body weight/day to induce hyperthyroidism. All treatments were continued for 14 days after which animals were killed under low stress conditions. TSH concentrations in plasma and anterior pituitary tissue were 2-fold higher (P less than 0.01) in euthyroid SHR compared to WKY control rats while thyroid hormone (T3 and T4) levels were in the normal range. Hypothyroidism induced by either methimazole or thyroidectomy caused a significant (P less than 0.01) rise of plasma TSH levels in both WKY and SHR rats. However, relative to the TSH concentrations in control animals, the increase of plasma TSH in SHR was significantly blunted (P less than 0.01) in comparison to the WKY group. Hypothyroidism caused a significant depletion of TRH in stalk-median eminence (SME) tissue in both groups of rats. However, no differences between SHR and WKY rats were observed. The administration of thyroid hormone caused a dose dependent suppression of plasma TSH levels in both strains of rats. However, at both doses tested plasma TSH concentrations in SHR rats were significantly less suppressed (P less than 0.05) than those in WKY animals. Under in vitro conditions basal and potassium induced TRH release from SMEs derived from SHR was significantly (P less than 0.05) higher than that from WKY rats, whether expressed in absolute terms or as percent of content. These findings suggest that the thyroid hormone negative feedback regulation of TSH secretion may be impaired in SHR rats. Our data do not allow conclusions as to whether defects in the regulation of TSH production are located exclusively at the hypothalamic level. Since the overproduction of hypothalamic TRH and hypophysial TSH should lead to an increased thyroid hormone biosynthesis other defects in the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid-axis may contribute to the abnormal regulation of TSH secretion in SHR rats.
Endocrine control of Anguilla anguilla glass eel dispersal: effect of thyroid hormones on locomotor activity and rheotactic behavior.	Dispersal, one of the most important processes in population ecology, is an issue linking physiological and behavioral features. However, the endocrine control of animal dispersal remains poorly understood. Here, we tested whether and how thyroid hormones may influence dispersal in glass eels of Anguilla anguilla, by testing their influence on locomotor activity and rheotactic behavior. Glass eels were caught during their estuarine migration and treated by immersion in either a l-thyroxine (T(4)) or a thiourea (TU) solution. As measured by radioimmunoassay, T(4) and TU treatments induced, respectively, increased and decreased whole-body thyroid hormone levels relative to untreated controls. We tested a total of 960 glass eels distributed into control, and T(4) and TU treatment groups, on their swimming behavior in experimental flume tanks equipped with upstream and downstream traps that allowed us to concurrently measure both the locomotor activity and the rheotactic behavior. Compared to controls, locomotor activity significantly increased among the hyperthyroid, T(4)-treated eels, but significantly decreased among the hypothyroid, TU-treated eels. The results on rheotactic behavior suggested a more complex regulatory mechanism, since TU but not T(4) treatment significantly affected rheotactic behavior. The influence of thyroid hormones on locomotor activity suggests a central role for these hormones in the regulation of mechanisms leading to the colonization of continental habitats by glass eels. Thyroid hormones are also implicated in the control of locomotor activity in mammals and migratory behavior in birds, suggesting that these hormones represent conserved, proximate mediators of dispersal in vertebrates.
Inhibition of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mammary carcinogenesis by molecular iodine (I2) but not by iodide (I-) treatment Evidence that I2 prevents cancer promotion.	We analyzed the effect of molecular iodine (I2), potassium iodide (KI) and a subclinical concentration of thyroxine (T4) on the induction and promotion of mammary cancer induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. Virgin Sprague-Dawley rats received short or continuous treatment. Continuous I2 treated rats exhibited a strong and persistent reduction in mammary cancer incidence (30%) compared to controls (72.7%). Interruption of short or long term treatments resulted in a higher incidence in mammary cancer compared to the control groups. The protective effect of I2 was correlated with the highest expression of the I-/Cl- transporter pendrin and with the lowest levels of lipoperoxidation expression in mammary glands. Triiodothyronine serum levels and Na+/I- symporter, lactoperoxidase, or p53 expression did not show any changes. In conclusion continuous I2 treatment has a potent antineoplastic effect on the progression of mammary cancer and its effect may be related to a decrease in the oxidative cell environment.
Effects of thyroid hormone on the development of immune system in zebrafish.	Effects of thyroxine (T4) and methimazole (MMI) on the development of the zebrafish immune system were investigated using continuous immersion treatment experiments. The effects of the treatments on thymus development were determined using computer-aided thymus morphometric analyses on in situ hybridization serial sections of the thymus while the effects on immune-related gene expression levels were monitored using quantitative real-time PCR. The findings indicate that thymus development and thymopoiesis, as indicated by thymus size, thymus Rag-1-positive region, and TCRAC expression level, were affected by T4 and MMI-treatments. With the exception of Ikaros, MMI-treated fish has lower immune-related gene expression levels, although it is not certain whether the effect resulted indirectly from the concomitant growth-retardation and/or directly from an effect on lymphopoiesis itself. The findings were comparable with those in mammalian system, thus providing the first evidence that the thyroid relationship with thymus development and lymphopoiesis is likely to be conserved from fish to higher vertebrates. It suggests the possibility of using zebrafish as a model system to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in thyroid hormone-dependent disorders in the immune system.
Regulation of insulin-like growth factor I binding in the rat uterus by growth hormone and thyroxine.	The insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I)-binding sites in the rat uterus were characterized further and the effects of growth hormone and thyroxine examined. The 125I-labelled IGF-I binding sites on uterine membranes demonstrated relative binding affinity of less than 20% for IGF-II, less than 1% for insulin and no affinity for an unrelated peptide, epidermal growth factor, compared with 100% for IGF-I confirming the specificity of these binding sites. Scatchard analysis of the specific binding data revealed the presence of a single class of high-affinity binding sites (Kd = 2.50 +/- 0.68 nmol l-1, with a binding capacity of 1.02 +/- 0.13 pmol mg-1 membrane protein in the uterus of the pituitary-intact ovariectomized rat. After hypophysectomy, the uteri from these rats had significantly (P less than 0.05) increased IGF-I binding sites, without significant changes in their affinity. Administration of growth hormone with or without L-thyroxine reversed this increase in IGF-I binding. Injection of thyroxine alone to the hypophysectomized ovariectomized rats had no significant effects on the uterine IGF-I binding sites. These data show that growth hormone, but not thyroxine, can regulate IGF-I binding sites in the rat uterus, possibly through regulating IGF-I production.
Changes in antioxidant status, protein concentration, acetylcholinesterase, (Na+,K+)-, and Mg2+ -ATPase activities in the brain of hyper- and hypothyroid adult rats.	It is a common knowledge that metabolic reactions increase in hyperthyroidism and decrease in hypothyroidism. The aim of this work was to investigate how the metabolic reactions could affect the total antioxidant status (TAS), protein concentration (PC) and the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), (Na+,K+)-ATPase and Mg2+ -ATPase in the brain of hyper- and hypothyroid adult male rats. Hyperthyroidism was induced in rats by subcutaneous administration of thyroxine (25 microg/l00 g body weight) once daily for 14 days, while hypothyroidism was induced by oral administration of propylthiouracil (0.05%) for 21 days. TAS, PC, and enzyme activities were evaluated spectrophotometrically in the homogenated brain of each animal. TAS, PC, and Mg2+ -ATPase activity were found unaffected in hyperthyroidism, while AChE and Na+,K+ -ATPase activities were reduced by 25% (p < 0.01). In contrast, TAS, (Na+,K+)-ATPase and Mg2+-ATPase activities were found to be increased (approx. 23-30%, p < 0.001) in the hypothyroid brain, while AChE activity and PC were shown to be inhibited (approx. 23-30%, p < 0.001). These changes on brain enzyme activities may reflect the different metabolic effects of hyper- and hypothyroidism. Such changes of the enzyme activities may differentially modulate the brain intracellular Mg2+, neural excitability, as well as the uptake and release of biogenic amines.
Effects of growth hormone on apolipoprotein-B (apoB) messenger ribonucleic acid editing, and apoB 48 and apoB 100 synthesis and secretion in the rat liver.	Apolipoprotein-B 48 (apoB 48) and apoB 100 expression and the editing of apoB mRNA have previously been shown to be hormonally regulated in rat liver. We have investigated the effects of hypophysectomy and replacement therapy with T4, cortisol (C), and GH in vivo on the proportion of edited apoB mRNA in rat liver and cultured rat hepatocytes as well as the synthesis and secretion of apoB 48 and apoB 100 in cultured rat hepatocytes. Hypophysectomy decreased the proportion of edited apoB mRNA in intact liver from 62% in normal rats to 29% in hypophysectomized rats. Treatment of hypophysectomized rats with T4 and C did not influence the proportion of edited apoB mRNA, whereas treatment with GH, either alone or together with T4 and C, increased the proportion of edited apoB mRNA to the levels observed in normal rats. In cultured hepatocytes isolated from normal rats, the proportion of apoB 48 (percentage of total labeled apoB) was 78% and decreased to 40% in cells isolated from hypophysectomized rats. Treatment of hypophysectomized rats with T4 and C had no effect on the proportion of apoB 48 present in isolated cells, whereas it increased to 60% after treatment with GH together with T4 and C. The proportion of apoB 48 in the medium was affected by hypophysectomy and the various hormonal treatments in a similar way to that observed in the cells. Results from in vivo labeling experiments suggested that GH alone had the capacity to increase the percentage of apoB 48 in hypophysectomized rats. On the contrary, T4 and C was needed, in addition to GH, to increase the proportion of apoB 48 in isolated hepatocytes from hypophysectomized rats. Our results suggest that this discrepancy is due to a difference between the effect of GH alone on apoB mRNA editing in the intact liver and that in isolated hepatocytes. The total secretion of apoB into the cell culture medium was not affected by hypophysectomy and hormonal treatments of the rats. In conclusion, these results indicate that GH is involved in the regulation of editing of apoB mRNA and the proportion of apoB 48 synthesized and secreted in rat liver. Thus, our observations emphasize the importance of GH as a regulator of lipoprotein metabolism.
Effect of thyroxine on the activity of mitochondrial cardiolipin synthase in rat liver.	Cardiolipin is a major mitochondrial membrane lipid and plays a vital role in mitochondrial function. The effect of thyroxine on the activity of liver mitochondrial cardiolipin synthase was examined in this study. Treatment with thyroxine (250 micrograms/100 g) for 5 days increased cardiolipin synthase activity by 52%. Mitochondrial levels of cardiolipin appear to be regulated in part by the effect of thyroid hormone on the activity of cardiolipin synthase.
Rat thyroid monoamine oxidase (MAO) is regulated by thyrotrophin: evidence that the main form of the enzyme (MAO-A) is not directly involved in iodide organification.	The characteristics and regulation of monoamine oxidase (MAO) were studied in rat thyroid tissue. A measured Michaelis constant (Km) value of 102 mumol/l was similar to the Km values found in other tissues. Maximal velocity (Vmax) was 1.028 nmol/mg protein per min. It is known that MAO is present as two isoenzymes, A and B, which are sensitive to clorgyline and deprenyl respectively. The in-vitro effect of graded concentrations of these selective MAO inhibitors was used to estimate the relative proportion of A and B isoenzymes. Clorgyline strongly decreased thyroid MAO activity at concentrations as low as 1 pmol/l while the effect of deprenyl was observed only at concentrations higher than 10 mumol/l. These results indicated that MAO-A is the main form of the enzyme in the rat thyroid. In-vivo administration of L-thyroxine (5.6-224 nmol/kg) significantly reduced thyroid MAO activity at doses equal to or greater than those which have been reported to inhibit iodine output from the thyroid. Increased TSH levels, induced either by exogenous TSH or methimazole administration, resulted in a significant increase in thyroid MAO activity. Theophylline, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor and dibutyryl cyclic AMP were also able to stimulate MAO activity when administered in vivo. Iodide organification (protein-bound 131I) in vivo as well as the relative proportion of the different thyroid iodo-compounds were not affected in animals with reduced or increased thyroid MAO activity induced by clorgyline or theophylline respectively. It was concluded that rat thyroid MAO activity is under the influence of TSH.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Development of hepatic acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase in hormone-treated chicks.	It has been suggested that the carbohydrate-rich diet of chicks after hatching is responsible for the emergence of hepatic enzymes involved in lipogenesis; the injection of glucose to newly hatched chicks gives rise to an appreciable elvation on the activities of acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase and fatty acid synthetase. The present study shows that during the first hours after hatching, there is a natural elevation of glycemia which parallels the increase in acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase activity. However, the administration of hormones which alter the blood glucose levels considerably (insulin, tolbutamide, glucagon and hydrocortisone) did not influence the enzyme activity. The administration of thyroxine, estradiol and cyclic AMP, was also without effect. These results do not support the theory that the increased amount of blood glucose is the natural effector of the induction acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase. They also show that different lipogenic enzymes are not regulated via the same 'operon' since thyroxine or glucagon which alter the level of some enzymes on this pathway did not modify that of the acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase.
Hormonal regulation of rat hypothalamic neuropeptide mRNAs: effect of hypophysectomy and hormone replacement on growth-hormone-releasing factor, somatostatin and the insulin-like growth factors.	Hormonal feedback regulation of hypothalamic peptides putatively involved in growth hormone (GH) regulation has been studied by measurement of steady-state mRNA levels in male hypophysectomized rats with or without thyroid hormone, corticosterone, testosterone or GH replacement. Hypothalamic GH-releasing factor (GRF) mRNA levels increased progressively following hypophysectomy to 420% of sham levels after 15 days while hypothalamic insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) mRNA levels decreased to less than 40% of sham levels. Whole hypothalamic somatostatin mRNA levels were not significantly different from sham. One week of continuous GH infusion restored hypothalamic IGF-I mRNA to levels (95%) indistinguishable from those in sham-operated controls but had no effect on either IGF-II or GRF mRNA. Thyroid hormone, corticosterone and testosterone treatment without GH had no effect on the hypophysectomy-induced reduction of either IGF-I or IGF-II mRNA levels but reversed the elevation of GRF mRNA. We conclude that hypothalamic IGF-I may be involved in GH feedback regulation and thus may function as a hypothalamic modulator of GH. In contrast, IGF-II may be regulated by one of the pituitary trophic hormones but not by GH or the target hormones tested. Finally, hypothalamic GRF mRNA regulation appears to be complex and may include target hormone feedback.
Transactivation activity of thyroid hormone receptors in fish (Conger myriaster) in response to thyroid hormones.	We previously isolated cDNAs encoding conger eel (Conger myriaster) thyroid hormone (TH) receptors (TRs). In the present study, we investigated the transactivation activities of conger eel TRs treated with THs (3,3',5-triiodo-l-thyronine [T3], l-thyroxine [T4], and 3,3',5'-triiodo-l-thyronine [rT3]), or ligands and activators of other nuclear receptors. Following transient transfection into the Japanese eel (Anguilla japonica) hepatocyte cell line Hepa-E1, the conger eel TRs (cTRs) showed TH-dependent activation of transcription from a TH-responsive promoter. However, no transactivation activity of any of the four cTRs was observed with ligands or activators of other nuclear receptors. Although T3 activation for cTRs is stronger than other THs (T3>T4>rT3), the transactivation sensitivity was different from the activity of cTRs with THs, respectively. Therefore, we conclude that cTRs can act in concert with THs in fish metamorphosis.
Effects of neonatal hypothyroidism on rat brain gene expression.	To define at the molecular biological level the effects of thyroid hormone on brain development we have examined cDNA clones of brain mRNAs and identified several whose expression is altered in hypothyroid animals during the neonatal period. Clones were identified with probes prepared by subtractive or differential hybridization, and those corresponding to mRNAs altered in hypothyroidism were further studied by Northern blot analysis. Using RNA prepared from whole brains, no effect of hypothyroidism was found on the expression of the astroglial gene coding for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Among genes of neuronal expression, no significant alterations were found in the steady state levels of mRNAs coding for neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein-2, Tau, or nerve growth factor. N-CAM mRNA increased slightly in hypothyroid brains. In contrast a 2- to 3-fold decrease was found in the mRNA coding for a novel neuronal gene, RC3. This is the first neuronal gene known to be significantly altered at the mRNA level by thyroid hormone deprivation. The abundance of the mRNAs for the major myelin proteins proteolipid protein, myelin basic protein, and myelin-associated glycoprotein, expressed by oligodendrocytes, were also decreased in hypothyroid brains. Developmental studies on RC3 and myelin-associated glycoprotein expression indicated that the corresponding mRNAs accumulate in the brain of normal rats during the first 15-20 days of neonatal life. A similar accumulation occurred in hypothyroid brains, but at much reduced levels. The results demonstrate that thyroid hormone controls the steady state levels of particular mRNAs during brain development.
Pharmacological inhibition of TRalpha1 receptor potentiates the thyroxine effect on body weight reduction in rats: potential therapeutic implications in controlling body weight.	It has been previously reported that thyroid hormone receptor alpha1 (TRalpha1) is involved in the regulation of food intake and heart rhythm. Herein, we show that pharmacological inhibition of TRalpha1 by dronedarone, an amiodarone like compound (shown to antagonize thyroid hormone binding to TRalpha1), prevented the thyroid hormone induced increase in food intake and heart rate acceleration in rats. This resulted in a marked reduction in body weight. It is likely that thyroid analogs may prove potential therapeutic agents for controlling body weight.
Increased levels of C-reactive protein in hypothyroid patients and its correlation with arterial stiffness in the common carotid artery.	Hypothyroidism is associated with increased morbidity from cardiovascular disease. The arterial stiffness index beta (stiffness beta) in the common carotid artery (CCA), which is a parameter of arterial stiffening, is known to increase in hypothyroid patients, while normalization of thyroid function for 1 year by levothyroxine (L-T(4)) replacement therapy significantly decreases CCA stiffness beta. Since serum C-reactive protein (CRP) has recently emerged as an independent factor for cardiovascular risk, the present study was designed to examine whether hypothyroidism causes an increase in CRP and whether the serum CRP level is correlated with CCA stiffness beta in hypothyroid patients.
Identification of gene expression indicators for thyroid axis disruption in a Xenopus laevis metamorphosis screening assay. Part 2. Effects on the tail and hindlimb.	Thyroid hormones (TH), thyroxine (T(4)) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T(3)), play crucial roles in regulation of growth, development and metabolism in vertebrates and are targets for endocrine disruptive agents. Perturbations in TH action can contribute to the development of disease states and the US Environmental Protection Agency is developing a high throughput screen using TH-dependent metamorphosis of the Xenopus laevis tadpole as an assay platform. Currently this methodology relies on external morphological endpoints and changes in central thyroid axis parameters. However, exposure-related changes in gene expression in TH-sensitive tissue types that occur over shorter time frames have the potential to augment this screen. Using a combination of cDNA array and real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) analyses, this study identifies molecular markers in tissues peripheral to the central thyroid axis. We examine the hindlimb and tail of tadpoles up to 96 h of continuous exposure to T(3), T(4), methimazole, propylthiouracil, or perchlorate. Several novel biomarker candidates are indicated that include transcripts encoding importin, RNA helicase II/Gu, and defender against death protein, DAD1. In combination with previously-identified biomarker candidates, these transcripts will greatly augment the predictive and diagnostic power of the Xenopus metamorphosis assay for perturbation of TH action.
Methimazole protects lungs during hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats: an effect not induced by hypothyroidism.	Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury may lead to remote organ failure with mortal respiratory dysfunction. The aim of the present study was to analyze the possible protective effects of methimazole on lungs after hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Growth hormone regulation of insulin-like growth factor-I mRNA in rat adipose tissue and isolated rat adipocytes.	The effects of hypophysectomy and hormonal replacement therapy on insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) mRNA in rat adipose tissue and adipocytes were studied. The effects of GH and IGF-I in vitro on IGF-I mRNA and IGF-I production were also studied in cultured rat adipocytes. Male rats were hypophysectomized at about 50 days of age and given replacement therapy with cortisol (400 micrograms/kg per day) and thyroxine (10 micrograms/kg per day). GH was given as a single i.v. or s.c. injection and also as a continuous s.c. infusion for 6 days. Epididymal fat pads were excised and used either for isolation of adipocytes or for determination of IGF-I mRNA in adipose tissue. A solution hybridization assay was used. The IGF-I mRNA content of adipocytes was analysed either immediately after isolation or after short-term (2-3 days) culture with or without GH or IGF-I. Hypophysectomy resulted in a marked decrease in IGF-I mRNA in both tissue and cells. Replacement therapy (in vivo) with cortisol and thyroxine alone had no effect, whereas additional treatment with GH caused a dose-dependent increase in IGF-I mRNA. IGF-I mRNA was also increased after a continuous s.c. infusion of GH. A single i.v. injection of GH (100 micrograms) resulted in an increase in IGF-I mRNA after approximately 2 h, with maximal levels around 6 h after the injection. In cultured adipocytes, addition of GH to the culture medium increased IGF-I mRNA in a dose-dependent manner and a marked increase was observed with a concentration of GH of 1 ng/ml. Addition of IGF-I (100 ng/ml) had no effect. The increase in IGF-I mRNA after addition of GH (100 ng/ml) was detectable after 3 h. The concentration of IGF-I in the culture medium was increased 24 h after the addition of GH. These results demonstrate that GH induces IGF-I mRNA in both adipose tissue and isolated fully differentiated adipocytes and that this increase in IGF-I mRNA results in increased IGF-I production.
Differential effects of T4 and T3 on TRH- and GRF-induced GH secretion in the domestic fowl.	The in vivo growth hormone (GH) response of immature domestic fowl to thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) and GH-releasing factor (GRF) was suppressed in birds fed diets supplemented (1 ppm) with triiodothyronine (T3) or given bolus intraperitoneal (ip) injections (100 micrograms/kg for 10 d) of T3. Supplementation (ppm) of the diet with T4 had no effect on secretagogue- induced GH release. Exogenous T3 or T4 suppressed basal, TRH- and GRF-induced GH release 2 h after daily ip administration (100 micrograms/kg for 10 d). 24 h after the last injection, only T3 was effective in inhibiting basal and stimulated GH secretion in vivo. The systemic administration of T3 was followed 2 h and 24 h later by a downregulation of pituitary TRH binding sites. T4 administration had no effect on pituitary TRH binding. When chicken pituitary glands were incubated in vitro, basal GH release was unaffected by the addition of 10(-9)-10(-5) M T3 or T4 to the incubation media. The in vitro GH response to TRH (10(-6) M) or GRF (10(-6) M) challenge was, however, suppressed in a dose-related manner by T3 but was unaffected by the coincubation of T4. These results demonstrate inhibitory effects of T3 and T4 on basal and secretagogue-induced GH secretion in fowl. T4 is less active than T3 and probably exerts some of its effects via T3-independent mechanisms.
Sex-dependent inhibition by retinoic acid of thyroid-hormone action on rabbit reticulocyte Ca2(+)-ATPase activity.	The interaction was examined in vitro of retinoic acid and thyroid hormone with rabbit reticulocyte Ca2(+)-ATPase. L-Thyroxine (T4) (0.1 nM) stimulated female-source Ca2(+)-ATPase activity (+21%; P less than 0.03) and inhibited male-source enzyme (-20%; P less than 0.05). Addition of retinoic acid (10 nM-1 microM) did not influence T4-inhibitable male-source Ca2(+)-ATPase, but caused a 52% loss of T4 effect on the female-source enzyme. Incubation of female-source membranes with testosterone caused the enzyme response to T4 and retinoic acid to become that of male-source membranes, and the male-source enzyme response was converted into the 'female' pattern by exposure to 17 beta-oestradiol. We postulate that a membrane-associated sex-steroid-dependent factor imparts a gender-specific interaction of thyroid hormone and retinoic acid on Ca2(+)-ATPase, and that ultimately the factor is shed during erythrocyte maturation.
In vivo collagen turnover during development of thyroxine-induced left ventricular hypertrophy.	Cardiac fibroblasts synthesize large amounts of procollagens, yet only a small fraction of mature collagens accumulate in the extracellular matrix. To determine the roles of intracellular degradation of newly synthesized procollagens and extracellular degradation of mature collagens during normal growth and during thyroxine-induced left ventricular hypertrophy, in vivo left ventricular procollagen synthetic rates were assessed in control rats and rats treated with L-thyroxine for 1, 2, 4, and 8 wk (1 mg.kg-1.day-1). A modification of the flooding infusion method was developed using measurements of cardiac prolyl-tRNA, and tissue-free and protein-bound hydroxyproline specific radioactivities 60 min after intravenous administration of a massive dose of [3H]proline. Degradative rates of newly synthesized procollagens and mature collagens were then derived as the difference between rates of procollagen synthesis and collagen accumulation. Left ventricular procollagen synthetic rates were markedly increased after 1 wk of hormone administration (256 +/- 16 and 166 +/- 13 micrograms/day per left ventricle for thyroxine-treated and control animals, respectively; P less than 0.01). An even greater increase in procollagen synthetic rates was observed after 8 wk (438 +/- 46 and 202 +/- 18 micrograms/day for thyroxine-treated and control animals, respectively; P less than 0.01). Despite increased procollagen synthesis, disproportionate accumulation of fibrillar collagens (assessed as the relative concentration of protein-bound hydroxyproline in left ventricular tissue) did not occur. Derived left ventricular degradative rates for newly synthesized procollagens as well as for mature collagens were increased in thyroxine-treated animals. Increased procollagen synthesis, enhanced flux of newly synthesized procollagens through intracellular degradative pathways, and extensive extracellular matrix remodeling without disproportionate collagen accumulation are characteristics of this form of "physiological" left ventricular hypertrophy.
The pathogenesis of mental retardation in trisomy 21]	An adequate number of nerve cells, their connection by dendrites and axons, the transmission of information by chemical mediators are all necessary for normal brain function. Monocarbonic acid residues, purines and pyrimidines and tubulins and biopterin are essential to ensure that the necessary chemical processes can take place. In trisomy 21 the metabolism is disturbed by the enhancement of individual enzyme activities. Particular clinical effects suggest specific therapeutic interventions. The effects can be influenced by way of the monocarbonic acid metabolisms. The action of thyroxine is especially interesting, as it inhibits the disintegration of monocarbonic acids.
Nongenomic actions of thyroxine modulate intermediate filament phosphorylation in cerebral cortex of rats.	The developmental effects of thyroid hormones (TH) in mammalian brain are mainly mediated by nuclear receptors regulating gene expression. However, there are increasing evidences of nongenomic mechanisms of these hormones associated with kinase- and calcium-activated signaling pathways. In this context, the aim of the present work was to investigate the signaling pathways involved in the mechanism of action of TH on cytoskeletal phosphorylation in cerebral cortex of 15-day-old male rats. Results showed that L-thyroxine (L-T4) increased the intermediate filament (IF) phosphorylation independently of protein synthesis, without altering the total immunocontent of these proteins. Otherwise, neither 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (L-T3) nor neurotransmitters (GABA, ATP, L-glutamate or epinephrine) acted on the IF-associated phosphorylation level. We also demonstrated that the mechanisms underlying the L-T4 effect on the cytoskeleton involve membrane initiated actions through Gi protein-coupled receptor. This evidence was reinforced by the inhibition of cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate (cAMP) levels. Moreover, we showed the participation of phospholipase C, protein kinase C, mitogen-activated protein kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, intra- and extracellular Ca2+ mediating the effects of L-T4 on the cytoskeleton. Stimulation of 45Ca2+ uptake by L-T4 was also demonstrated. These findings demonstrate that L-T4 has important physiological roles modulating the cytoskeleton of neural cells during development.
Thyroxine and cortisone cooperate to modulate postnatal intestinal enzyme differentiation in the rat.	Interactions of cortisone and thyroxine (T4) in modulating jejunal sucrase and lactase expression were studied in rats during early postnatal life. Cortisone (50 micrograms/g body wt) precociously induced sucrase activity in days 5-16 rats and enhanced activity thereafter until day 22. T4 (1 microgram/g) plus cortisone evoked greater sucrase expression in day 9 or younger rats. T4 did not induce sucrase expression until day 13. Lactase activity was enhanced in rats younger than day 9 by cortisone, and this effect was abolished when T4 was added. In days 19 and 22 rats, cortisone depressed lactase; with T4, lactase activity was further decreased. T4 alone did not suppress lactase activity until day 19. Quantitation of jejunal enzyme content showed that sucrase catalytic activity was higher in day 22 than 19 or younger rats and lower in rats given T4 than cortisone. In contrast, lactase activity remained constant in all animal groups. In vivo [35S]methionine-labeling studies using day 9 rats showed that cortisone induced de novo synthesis of sucrase and increased 35S incorporation into lactase. Cortisone plus T4 increased 35S incorporation into sucrase further and significantly increased 35S incorporation into lactase. We conclude that 1) cortisone and T4 cooperatively stimulate sucrase expression and reduce lactase activity during early postnatal life and 2) reduction in lactase activity accompanied by increase in lactase synthesis suggests that cortisone and T4 regulate lactase activity at posttranslational level.
Intestinal lactase expression and epithelial cell transit in hormone-treated suckling rats.	Cortisone- and/or thyroxine (T4)-induced changes in jejunal lactase activity and epithelial cell migration were studied to determine the relationship of these two events. In suckling rats given a single dose of cortisone on day 6, jejunal lactase activity increased by 37% and cell turnover rate by 95% 3 days later, whereas T4 alone induced no changes. After cortisone plus T4, jejunal lactase activity decreased by 23% while cell turnover rate increased by 176%. Among all animal groups, the patterns of lactase expression along the crypt-villus (C-V) axis were similar, being low at the C-V junction, increasing to a high plateau at the mid- or third quarter villus level, and decreasing slightly at the villus tip. The calculated epithelial cell age at half maximum lactase expression in cortisone-treated and cortisone plus T4-treated rats was 30 and 53% younger than in control rats. Maximum lactase activity in villus cells was approximately 45% higher in cortisone-treated than in control or cortisone plus T4-treated rats. Parallel measurements of sucrase and lactase activities along C-V axis showed elevated lactase activity at higher villus positions than lead sucrase activity, suggesting that cortisone action occurs in villus cells. Thus jejunal lactase expression may be modulated by 1) adjusting villus cell age required for maximum expression, 2) altering the level of lactase activity in villus cells, and 3) changing the turnover rate of lactase containing epithelial cells.
Molecular cloning and primary structure of rat thyroxine-binding globulin.	Rat thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) cDNAs were isolated from a rat liver cDNA library by using a human TBG cDNA as a probe. From two overlapping cDNA inserts, an aligned cDNA sequence of 1714 nucleotides was obtained. There was 70% homology with human TBG cDNA over the span of 1526 nucleotides. In order to confirm that the cloned cDNA encodes rat TBG and to localize the NH2-terminal amino acid of the mature molecule, the protein was purified by affinity chromatography and subjected to direct protein microsequencing. The NH2-terminal amino acid sequence was identical with that deduced from the nucleotide sequence. The rat TBG cDNA sequenced consisted of a truncated leader sequence (35 nucleotides), the complete sequence encoding the mature protein (1194 nucleotides) and the 3'-untranslated region (485 nucleotides), containing two polyadenylation signals. It was deduced that rat TBG consists of 398 amino acids (Mr = 44,607), three NH2-terminal residues more than human TBG, with which it shares 76% homology in primary structure. Of the six potential N-glycosylation sites, four are located in conserved positions compared to human TBG. Northern blot analysis of rat liver revealed an approximately 1.8-kilobase TBG mRNA. Its amount increased markedly following thyroidectomy and decreased with thyroxine treatment in a dose-dependent manner.
Thyroxine effect upon activity of uridine kinase in developing rat cerebellum.	Experimental hyperthyroidism in the neonatal rat is known to accelerate cerebellar DNA biosynthesis resulting ultimately in a deficit in cell number at maturity. Because of the know shift to an earlier age in the developmental curve for cerebellar thymidine kinase activity in rats treated with thyroxine, we studied the activity of uridine kinase and DNA biosynthesis during rat cerebellar development under hyperthyroid conditions. Body weight and cerebellar wet weight in treated animals were noted to be significantly decreased below control values on days 4 and 12, respectively. Cerebellar DNA was significantly elevated above control values on days 4 and 6 (132 and 129% of control, respectively). Subsequently, DNA content fell significantly below control values through day 18. Uridine kinase activity was found to be increased significantly above control values at ages 2, 4, and 6 days (maximum 119% of control at age 4 days) following which activity fell significantly below control values by 15 days of age. Uridine kinase activity from both treated and control animals fell only moderately after the time of peak activity between 9 and 15 days of age, although the peak of the developmental curve for the enzyme appeared earlier in the treated animals. The data show a less pronounced early stimulation of cerebellar uridine kinase by thyroxine compared with previously reported thyroxine enhancement of thymidine kinase activity, although both enzymes are affected by thyroxine throughout cerebellar ontogenesis. The study thus provides evidence that uridine kinase is sensitive to hormonal stimulation during early stages of active cerebellar cell division, and that the enzyme may relate most closely in brain to the synthesis of RNA as well as the sustaining of cell function after the most active phase of cellular proliferation. In addition, the study emphasizes the use of enzyme-hormone relationships during development to provide information concerning critical interrelationships between metabolic pathways contributing to nucleic acid biosynthesis.
Activity of carbohydrate metabolism enzymes in loach embryos under the influence of hormones]	The activities of hexokinase, glucokinase, phosphofructokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphatase, and fructose-1,6-diphosphatase were determined in loach embryos developed in solutions of insulin, hydrocortisone, estrone and thyroxin at different stages of embryogenesis. Glucokinase and fructose-1,6-diphosphatase activties are shown not to change markedly under the influence of the above-mentioned hormones. During some periods of early development the hexokinase activity is inhibited by insulin, estrone and thyroxin. The glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity is suppressed by each of the used hormones at all the stages of early embryogenesis while the glocose-6-phosphatase activity decreased only under the influence of insulin at the cleavage, blastula and gastrula stages. Insulin increased the activity of phosphofructokinase at the cleavage, blastula and early gastrula stages and hydrocortisone, estrone and thyroxine during certain periods of these stages. From middle gastrula two last hormones decreased the phosphofructokinase activity in the loach embryos.
Regulation of rat pancreatic nuclear triiodothyronine receptor by glucocorticoid.	The nuclear T3 receptors in rat pancreas exhibit a characteristic maturation pattern during development and are subjected to autologous regulation by thyroid hormones. To see if glucocorticoids also regulate T3 receptors in the pancreas, rats at various age groups were subjected to experimental conditions that altered their glucocorticoid status and the corresponding changes in nuclear T3 receptors, and exocrine enzymes in their pancreata were evaluated. Hydrocortisone administration to normal suckling and weaning rats did not change total T3 binding capacity or the dissociation constant as measured at 30 degrees C (Kd30). A significant increase in the degree of occupancy of the T3 receptor was found at 5-10 days after treatment with hydrocortisone (42.2 + 4.1% vs. 19.2 + 2.0%). T3 binding capacity and exocrine enzyme concentrations were significantly reduced in both adrenalectomized (Adx) pups and adults, indicating a continuous dependency on glucocorticoid from preweaning to adulthood. In adrenalectomized rat pups, either T4 or glucocorticoid replacement alone restored T3 binding capacity and exocrine enzyme concentrations. T4 and glucocorticoid were given together to Adx rats, the level of stimulation of both pancreatic T3 binding capacity and exocrine enzyme concentrations was found to be equal to the sum of the stimulation by each of these hormones when given alone. Furthermore, a good correlation was found between Bmax30 (Bmax measured at 30 degrees C, representing total sites) for T3 binding and exocrine enzyme activities in different groups following various experimental treatments. These findings provide further evidence that thyroxine can act directly on the rat pancreas presumably through the T3 receptor in regulating the postnatal development of the exocrine enzymes.
Cardiac function in congenital hypothyroidism: impairment and response to L-T4 therapy.	Electrocardiograms (heart rate, QRS voltage, QRS axis in the frontal plane. Q-Tc interval) echocardiograms [left ventricular fractional shortening (LVFS); preejection period (PEP); PEP/left ventricular ejection time (PEP/LVET) ratio; end-diastolic left ventricular free wall and interventricular septum thickness; presence of pericardial effusion], and thyrotropin (TSH), thyroxine (T4), and triiodothyronine (T3) serum levels were evaluated before and 1 week, 1 and 2 months after the start of L-thyroxine (L-T4) therapy in 11 infants with congenital hypothyroidism (CH), aged 16-59 days when first seen. Before the start of therapy, infants with CH had significantly lower QRS complexes and LVFS and significantly higher values for Q-Tc, PEP, and PEP/LVET than normal infants of the same age. The QTc interval, PEP and PEP/LVET ratio of infants with CH were significantly greater before than 1 week after L-T4 therapy, and LVFS was significantly lower before than 1 month after L-T4 therapy. Four of the infants with CH had small pericardial effusions, which disappeared within the first week of therapy. QRS axis in the frontal plane, Q-Tc interval, and PEP were negatively correlated with logT4 and logT3 serum levels. PEP/LVET ratios were negatively correlated with logT4 serum values. The QRS voltage values were positively correlated with logT4 and logT3 serum values. The frontal-plane QRS axis, Q-Tc interval, and PEP/LVET ratio were positively correlated with logTSH serum levels. The QRS voltages were negatively correlated with TSH serum levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thyroxine increases epidermal growth factor levels in the mouse thyroid in vivo.	Immunoreactive epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been detected in the thyroid, which raises questions concerning the source of thyroidal EGF and what affects its levels. We therefore have examined the effects of manipulating thyroid function on the immunoreactive EGF levels in plasma, thyroid, submaxillary gland (SMG), and kidney of adult male BALB/c mice, and we also analyzed the prepro-EGF messenger RNA in these tissues. Groups of six mice received daily injection of T4 (1 microgram, 5 micrograms, or 25 micrograms) or bovine TSH (1 mU) for up to 14 days. The plasma EGF concentration was 0.31 +/- 0.01 ng/ml in control animals, and T4 (5 micrograms) decreased the plasma levels by about one-half within 1 week. The thyroidal EGF was 0.50 +/- 0.14 ng/mg protein in control animals, and T4 (5 micrograms) increased the thyroidal EGF 8-fold within 1 week. There was a negative correlation between plasma and thyroidal EGF concentration (r = -0.93, P less than 0.01). Increasing doses of T4 also increased the SMG EGF content, while plasma levels fell (r = -0.88, P less than 0.01). The TSH treatment did not significantly alter the plasma or tissue EGF levels. Studies on mRNA prepared from these three tissues, using the reverse transcription and the polymerase chain reaction, indicated that the prepro-EGF mRNA was present in thyroid, SMG, and kidney. In conclusion, it appears that at least some thyroidal EGF is synthesized in the thyroid. Our observations that T4 increases the level of intrathyroidal EGF in a dose- and time-dependent fashion, while plasma levels fall, suggest the possibility that intrathyroidal EGF represents a shortloop feedback for the autocrine and/or paracrine regulation of thyroid function.
Intracellular calcium and phospholipid turnover are not involved in the inhibition of iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase type II activity by T4.	In glial cell cultures, iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase type II is stimulated by dibutyryl cAMP. Serum-free medium increases enzyme activity and prolongs the half-life of the enzyme. T4 and rT3 specifically inhibit this activity. We tested whether enzyme inactivation by T4 was mediated by changes in cytosolic free calcium concentration and/or phospholipid turnover. Intracellular calcium concentration was decreased either by chelation of extracellular calcium or by chelation of extracellular and intracellular calcium. Neither basal hypothyroid 5'-deiodinase activity nor its inactivation by T4 were modified in such experimental conditions, compared with control cells incubated in normal calcium-containing medium. T4 by itself had no effect on the cytosolic free calcium concentration for up to 20 min. Studies on phospholipid turnover included norepinephrine in parallel to T4 as positive stimulation control. While norepinephrine clearly accelerated phosphoinositide turnover, there was no effect of T4 on any phospholipid turnover. These results suggest that neither cytosolic free calcium nor phospholipid turnover is involved in T4-dependent modulation of 5'-deiodinase type II activity in astrocytes in culture.
Thyroid hormone prevents cognitive deficit in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.	This study aimed to examine the feasibility of using thyroid hormone (TH) as a therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mice were injected intra-hippocampally aggregated amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) to produce AD animal model. Intraperitoneal administration of l-thyroxine (L-T4) into Abeta-induced AD model mice prevented their cognitive impairment and improved their memory function. The mechanisms of L-T4 treating AD might be associated with regulating cholinergic function, protecting the brains of AD model mice against damage from free radicals, and rescuing hippocampal neurons from apoptosis. The results of the present study indicate that the use of TH has some therapeutic potential in AD.
Thyroidal iodine metabolism in obese-strain chickens before immune-mediated damage.	Several studies have shown that iodine plays a role in spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis in man and other animals. In addition, abnormalities of iodine metabolism have been found in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and in chickens of the obese strain (OS), an animal model of spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis. We have examined several parameters of iodine metabolism before immune damage in this model and in the related Cornell strain (CS), a strain which develops a late-onset mild thyroiditis, to discover a possible causal relationship between altered iodine metabolism and the initiation of autoimmunity. Thyroglobulin was purified from individual chicken thyroid glands and analysed for iodine by the ceric sulphate method. Analogous to the thyroglobulin of Hashimoto's patients, the iodine content of OS thyroglobulin (27 atoms/molecule) was lower than that of normal-strain thyroglobulin (46 atoms/molecule) when the chickens were provided with a normal diet. Also, under conditions of TSH suppression, the iodine content of OS thyroglobulin (18 atoms/molecule) was lower than that of CS thyroglobulin (36 atoms/molecule) and of normal-strain thyroglobulin (32 atoms/molecule). In contrast with Hashimoto's patients, however, the OS and CS chickens had practically no inorganic iodide in their thyroid glands; electrophoretic analysis of thyroid homogenates revealed that essentially all (greater than 99.62%) 125I was organified by 16 h in all strains of birds tested. Despite the relatively poor iodination of thyroglobulin exhibited by OS chickens, they did not iodinate additional 'unique' proteins, when examined by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of thyroid proteins labelled with 125I in vivo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Increased nuclear tri-iodothyronine binding and thyroid hormone-stimulated glucose consumption in mononuclear blood cells from patients with liver cirrhosis.	Nuclear tri-iodothyronine (T3) maximal binding capacity (MBC) and thyroxine- and T3-stimulated cellular oxygen consumption and glucose consumption were examined in mononuclear blood cells from six patients with liver cirrhosis (LC), in six patients with alcoholic hepatitis (AH), and in six healthy control subjects. Serum T3 was decreased in patients with LC. The MBC of T3 was increased significantly (P less than 0.05) in cells from patients with LC compared with patients with AH and controls, whereas the equilibrium association constants did not differ. Unstimulated glucose consumption was slightly increased (P less than 0.05) in cells from patients with AH and LC compared with controls. Thyroid hormone-stimulated glucose consumption was significantly (P less than 0.05) increased in cells from patients with LC compared with controls and patients with AH. Unstimulated oxygen consumption did not differ between the groups, but thyroid hormone-stimulated oxygen consumption was depressed in cells from patients with AC (P less than 0.05) compared with patients with LC and with controls. We conclude that both thyroid hormone-stimulated glucose consumption and T3 nuclear receptor binding in cells from patients with LC are increased, and suggest that the observed changes are responsible for maintenance of euthyroidism in the face of reduced circulating T3.
Estradiol induces proliferation of peroxisome-like microbodies and the production of 3-hydroxy fatty acid diesters, the female pheromones, in the uropygial glands of male and female mallards.	During the mating season the female mallards produce sex pheromones, diesters of 3-hydroxy fatty acids, in their uropygial glands. Subcellular fractionation by sucrose and Nycodenz density gradient centrifugations and electron microscopic examination of the fractions showed that diesters of 3-hydroxy acids and the enzymes that catalyze the formation and esterification of the 3-hydroxy fatty acids are located in the catalase-containing fractions, probably peroxisomes, whereas monoester synthesizing activities are located in the endoplasmic reticulum. Fatty acyl-CoA reductase that would provide fatty alcohol needed for the synthesis of monoester and diester waxes was found both in the peroxisomal and endoplasmic reticulum fraction. Upon daily intramuscular injection of estradiol into the females in the nonmating season, the short chain monoester waxes of the uropygial glands were replaced by long chain monoester waxes, and subsequently the monoester waxes were replaced by diester waxes. Injection of thyroxine with estradiol hastened the induction of the compositional changes including diester synthesis. Similar changes, including the synthesis of the female pheromones, were induced in the uropygial glands by the hormone treatment of males that do not normally produce diesters at any time during their life cycle. The structure and composition of the diesters induced by hormone treatment of both males and females were identical to those of the female pheromones produced during their mating season. Electron microscopic examination of diaminobenzidine-treated glands showed that peroxisomes proliferated in the gland of the females in the mating season and in the estradiol-treated males that produce the diesters.
Decreased thyroid hormone-stimulated oxygen consumption and glucose uptake in mononuclear blood cells from patients with autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type I.	Nine patients, from four different families, with autosomal dominant osteopetrosis were investigated. They all had roentgenological type I disease, characterized by universal, symmetrical osteosclerosis and enlarged thickness of the cranial vault. All patients appeared clinically euthyroid. Thyroxine (T4) and tri-iodothyronine (T3) induced oxygen consumption and glucose uptake were studied in vitro in mononuclear blood cells from patients and control persons. Unstimulated oxygen consumption from patients and controls did not differ, and no difference in unstimulated glucose uptake was observed. The increase in T4 and T3 stimulated oxygen consumption was significantly lower in cells from patients with osteopetrosis (T4: 0.007 +/- 0.004 mumol/mg DNA per h, T3: 0.011 +/- 0.004 mumol/mg DNA per h) compared with controls (T4: 0.017 +/- 0.003 mumol/mg DNA per h, T3: 0.023 +/- -0.013 mumol/mg DNA per h; p less than 0.05, p less than 0.05). Cellular glucose uptake after T4 and T3 stimulation was significantly lower in patients (T4: 0.032 +/- 0.017 mmol/l per mg DNA per h, T3: 0.02 +/- 0.017 mmol/l per mg DNA per h) compared with controls (T4: 0.09 +/- 0.017 mmol/l per mg DNA per h, T3: 0.08 +/- 0.01 mmol/l per mg DNA per h; p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01). The reduced oxygen consumption and glucose uptake indicate thyroid hormone resistance which may be of pathogenetic importance for the development of autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type I.
Effect of hypothyroidism and thyroid hormone replacement on the level of protein kinase C and protein kinase A in rat liver.	We investigated the influence of the thyroid hormone status on the levels of protein kinases C (PKC) and A (PKA) in the soluble fraction of rat liver. The immunodetectable PKC level in hypothyroid liver was elevated 7.7-fold, whereas the phorbol-ester binding capacity and the immunodetectable alpha-PKC level were increased 2.4- and 2.6-fold, respectively. Conversely, in hypothyroid livers the abundance of the regulatory type I and the catalytic subunits of PKA were lowered to 42% of the euthyroid level as determined by immunoblotting and by measuring the substrate specific phosphorylation rate of PKA. These changes in the PKC and PKA levels were reversible upon treatment with 0.5 microgram T4/100 g body weight for 2-21 days. The thyroid state dependent alterations in hepatic PKC and PKA levels may be responsible for the known changes in the response of hepatocytes to other hormonal stimuli in hypothyroidism.
Age differences in the ultrastructure of the myocardium of thyroxine treated rat]	Ultramicromeasuring studies were made on different sites of thyroxine-induced hypertrophic myocardium of rats of different ages (6 and 26 months of age). In the resting stage, the area ratio of mitochondria to myofibrils was significantly smaller in old rats and also in the apex. In rats receiving thyroxine, the ratio was not increased in the young rats, but was markedly increased in the old, reaching the value in the young rat, suggesting a decrease in the reserve power of the myocardial mitochondria in the old rats.
Effect of propylthiouracil treatment during prenatal and early postnatal development on the neocortex of rat pups.	The effects of a pre- and postnatal hypothyroid environment on the development of the neocortex have been determined. Rats were treated with propylthiouracil (PTU) with or without thyroid hormone supplementation during pregnancy and throughout the early development of the pups. The Cavalieri method was used to provide an estimate of the volume of the neocortex, and a combination of the Cavalieri method and the 'disector' particle-counting method provided an unbiased estimate of the numbers of glia and neurons in the neocortex. In pups from non-treated rats the mean volume of the neocortex increased from 31.3 mm3 at 5 days postnatally to 191.5 mm3 at 20 days and then remained constant to day 48. Similarly, the mean number of glial cells increased from 5.2 x 10(6) at day 5 to 12.0 x 10(6) on day 20 and then remained constant to day 48. The mean number of neurons in the neocortex in the control condition was constant at about 14.6 x 10(6) from day 5 to day 48. PTU treatment during pregnancy and postnatal development significantly decreased the mean volume of the neocortex at all of the stages studied, for example from 31.3 to 23.3 mm3 (p less than 0.001) on day 5 and from 191.5 to 155.0 mm3 (p less than 0.001) on day 20. Supplementation with thyroxine (T4) or tri-iodothyronine partially reversed this at certain stages. For example, the mean volume of the neocortex at 48 days was 197.5 mm3 in control rats, 118.1 mm3 in PTU-treated rats and 169.3 mm3 in PTU-treated rats supplemented with T4. Within the neocortex, the volume of the neuropile was more severely affected than was the volume of the neuron cell bodies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Response to thyroxine of lamellar bodies, peroxisomes and peroxisomal enzymes in the adult rat lung.	Adult male rats were fed a standard diet containing 25 mg/kg L-thyroxine for 2 weeks. The hyperthyreotic condition of the animals was checked by monitoring the metabolic rates and liver glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. In the postnuclear fraction of the lung the activity of fatty acyl-CoA oxidase, the enzyme responsible for the rate limiting first step of peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation, showed a twofold increase. Catalase, the marker enzyme of peroxisomes, showed a similar increase. Electron microscopic examination of alveolar type II cells did not reveal changes in the number and distribution frequency of peroxisomes and lamellar bodies. Similarly the content of 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine), the main constituent of alveolar surfactant, was not altered significantly by thyroxine feeding. On the other hand the volume density of the peroxisomal compartment was found to be doubled according to the measured increase of catalase and acyl-CoA oxidase. Our data suggest that the induction of peroxisomal matrix enzymes, such as catalase and fatty acyl-CoA oxidase, does not influence the surfactant content.
Regulation of expression of antioxidant enzymes by vitamin E and curcumin in L-thyroxine-induced oxidative stress in rat renal cortex.	The present study investigates the antioxidative effects of vitamin E and curcumin against L-thyroxine (T(4))-induced oxidative stress in renal cortex of adult male rats. Rats were made hyperthyroid by administration of L-thyroxine (0.0012%) in their drinking water for 30 days. Vitamin E (200 mg/kg body weight/day) and curcumin (30 mg/kg body weight/day) were supplemented singly or in combination orally for 30 days along with L-thyroxine treatment. The elevated level of oxidative stress parameters (lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation) and decline level of small antioxidant molecules (reduced glutathione and ascorbic acid) in renal cortex of T(4)-treated rats were restored back by supplementation of vitamin E or/and curcumin. Increased superoxide dismutase and catalase activities in kidney cortex of T(4)-treated rats were ameliorated in response to vitamin E or/and curcumin treatment. The elevated translated product of Cu/Zn-SOD, Mn-SOD and catalase in T(4)-treated rats were differentially reduced by the administration of vitamin E and curcumin independently or in combination. Cu/Zn-SOD expression was ameliorated by both vitamin E and curcumin independently or in combination, whereas Mn-SOD expression was ameliorated by the supplementation of vitamin E or curcumin independently. However, the expression of catalase was alleviated by only supplementation of vitamin E to T(4)-treated rats. The results suggest that both vitamin E and curcumin may play an important role in protecting T(4)-induced oxidative stress in rat renal cortex by differentially modulating the activities of antioxidant enzymes and oxidative stress parameters.
Inverse effects of corticosterone and thyroxine on glucocorticoid binding sites in the anterior pituitary gland.	The aim of this study was to determine whether pituitary glucocorticoid binding sites are under hormonal control. It was shown that corticosterone and thyroxine exerted antagonistic effects on both the transcortin-like component and true receptor present in the hypophysis: thyroid hormones, in contrast to glucocorticoids which exhibited opposite influence, increased maximum binding without affecting significantly the apparent association constant. Thus, it seems that the concentration of glucocorticoid binding sites is regulated by the glucocorticoid ligands, as well as by a different hormone. Moreover, a striking parallelism was found between plasma transcortin and pituitary transcotin-like capacity, argueing in favour of a plasma origin for this pituitary binder.
Detrimental effects of thyroid hormone analog DITPA in the mouse heart: increased mortality with in vivo acute myocardial ischemia-reperfusion.	There is emerging evidence that treatment with thyroid hormone (TH) can improve postischemic cardiac function. 3,5-Diiodothyropropionic acid (DITPA), a TH analog, has been proposed to be a safer therapeutic agent than TH because of its negligible effects on cardiac metabolism and heart rate. However, conflicting results have been reported for the cardiac effects of DITPA. Importantly, recent clinical trials demonstrated no symptomatic benefit in patients with DITPA despite some improved hemodynamic and metabolic parameters. To address these issues, dose-dependent effects of DITPA were investigated in mice for baseline cardiovascular effects and postischemic myocardial function and/or salvage. Mice were treated with subcutaneous DITPA at 0.937, 1.875, 3.75, or 7.5 mgkg(-1)day(-1) for 7 days, and the results were compared with untreated mice for ex vivo and/or in vivo myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R). DITPA had no effects on baseline body temperature, body weight, or heart rate; however, it mildly increased blood pressure. In isolated hearts, baseline contractile function was significantly impaired in DITPA-pretreated mice; however, postischemic recovery was comparable between untreated and DITPA-treated groups. In vivo baseline cardiac parameters were significantly affected by DITPA, with increased ventricular dimensions and decreased contractile function. Importantly, DITPA-treated mice demonstrated high prevalence of fatal cardiac rhythm abnormalities during in vivo ischemia and/or reperfusion. There were no improvements in myocardial infarction and postischemic fractional shortening with DITPA. Myocardial sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA), phospholamban (PLB), and heat shock protein (HSP) levels remained unchanged with DITPA treatment. Thus DITPA administration impairs baseline cardiac parameters in mice and can be fatal during in vivo acute myocardial I/R.
Thyroid hormones (T3 and T4): dual effect on human cancer cell proliferation.	Several findings suggest that the patient's hormonal context plays a crucial role in determining cancer outcome. The exact nature of thyroid hormone action on tumour growth has not been established yet, in fact contrasting data show thyroid hormones have a promotory or an inhibitory action on cancer cell proliferation depending on the case. We hypothesized that not only tissue specificity, but also specific mutations occurring during tumoral development in different thyroid hormone cellular targets are responsible for this dual effect. To test our hypothesis we analysed, by time-course and bromodeoxyuridine assay, thyroid hormone effects on the proliferation of six cancer cell lines originating from the same tissue or organ but carrying different mutations (in phospho-inositide 3 kinase or -catenin genes). The data obtained in this study show how mutations that affect the balance between degradation and stabilization of -catenin assume a remarkable importance in determining the cell-specific thyroid hormone effect on cell growth.
The sodium iodide symporter (NIS) and potential regulators in normal, benign and malignant human breast tissue.	The presence, relevance and regulation of the Sodium Iodide Symporter (NIS) in human mammary tissue remains poorly understood. This study aimed to quantify relative expression of NIS and putative regulators in human breast tissue, with relationships observed further investigated in vitro.
The correction of lipid metabolism and microcirculation disturbances in early atherogenesis stages by thyroxine]	Thyroxine (T4) inhibits the development of lipid metabolism disorders and experimental atherosclerosis in rabbits (model N.N. Anichkov). The study of the hypothalamic-pituitary system, thyroid, and the microvascular bed also revealed a beneficial effect of thyroxine on their morpho-functional state. Thus, the role of neuroendocrine regulation and disorders of microcirculation in atherogenesis shown.
Nuclear monomeric integrin v in cancer cells is a coactivator regulated by thyroid hormone.	Thyroid hormone induces tumor cell and blood vessel cell proliferation via a cell surface receptor on heterodimeric integrin v3. We investigated the role of thyroid hormone-induced internalization of nuclear integrin v monomer. Physiological concentration of thyroxine (free T4, 10(-10) M), but not 3,5,3'-triiodo-l-thyronine (T3), induced cellular internalization and nuclear translocation of integrin v monomer in human non-small-cell lung cancer (H522) and ovarian carcinoma (OVCAR-3) cells. T4 did not complex with integrin v monomer during its internalization. The v monomer was phosphorylated by activated ERK1/2 when it heterodimerized with integrin 3 in vitro. Nuclear v complexed with transcriptional coactivator proteins, p300 and STAT1, and with corepressor proteins, NCoR and SMRT. Nuclear v monomer in T4-exposed cells, but not integrin 3, bound to promoters of specific genes that have important roles in cancer cells, including estrogen receptor-, cyclooxygenase-2, hypoxia-inducible factor-1, and thyroid hormone receptor 1 in chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. In summary, monomeric v is a novel coactivator regulated from the cell surface by thyroid hormone for the expression of genes involved in tumorigenesis and angiogenesis. This study also offers a mechanism for modulation of gene expression by thyroid hormone that is adjunctive to the nuclear hormone receptor (TR)-T3 pathway.
Effects of thyroxine treatment during lactation on the testicular function of rats across different ages.	Thyroid hormones are involved in the development of several tissues and organs and are essential for the normal growth and reproductive function. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of thyroid hormones on the development of testis and progression of spermatogenesis. Lactating mothers were treated with oral thyroxine (T4; 20 g/100 g) for 20 days after parturition. The pups were decapitated at the age of 20, 40 and 60 days post partum. Neonatal hyperthyroidism resulted in a decrease in body and testis mass, an increase of free thyroxine and a decrease of testosterone concentrations in plasma of treated rats. The treatment was associated with a significant decrease of the diameter of seminiferous tubules and a slowdown in spermatogenesis, following a delay in the maturation of germ cells. We conclude that thyroid hormones affect the progression of postnatal spermatogenesis. 
Effects of thyroxine exposure on osteogenesis in mouse calvarial pre-osteoblasts.	The incidence of craniosynostosis is one in every 1,800-2500 births. The gene-environment model proposes that if a genetic predisposition is coupled with environmental exposures, the effects can be multiplicative resulting in severely abnormal phenotypes. At present, very little is known about the role of gene-environment interactions in modulating craniosynostosis phenotypes, but prior evidence suggests a role for endocrine factors. Here we provide a report of the effects of thyroid hormone exposure on murine calvaria cells. Murine derived calvaria cells were exposed to critical doses of pharmaceutical thyroxine and analyzed after 3 and 7 days of treatment. Endpoint assays were designed to determine the effects of the hormone exposure on markers of osteogenesis and included, proliferation assay, quantitative ALP activity assay, targeted qPCR for mRNA expression of Runx2, Alp, Ocn, and Twist1, genechip array for 28,853 targets, and targeted osteogenic microarray with qPCR confirmations. Exposure to thyroxine stimulated the cells to express ALP in a dose dependent manner. There were no patterns of difference observed for proliferation. Targeted RNA expression data confirmed expression increases for Alp and Ocn at 7 days in culture. The genechip array suggests substantive expression differences for 46 gene targets and the targeted osteogenesis microarray indicated 23 targets with substantive differences. 11 gene targets were chosen for qPCR confirmation because of their known association with bone or craniosynostosis (Col2a1, Dmp1, Fgf1, 2, Igf1, Mmp9, Phex, Tnf, Htra1, Por, and Dcn). We confirmed substantive increases in mRNA for Phex, FGF1, 2, Tnf, Dmp1, Htra1, Por, Igf1 and Mmp9, and substantive decreases for Dcn. It appears thyroid hormone may exert its effects through increasing osteogenesis. Targets isolated suggest a possible interaction for those gene products associated with calvarial suture growth and homeostasis as well as craniosynostosis. 
Thyroxine-induced changes of hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase activity and glycogen, protein, RNA and DNA contents in the rat.	Thyroxine (T4) in a dose of 0.1 microgram per g body weight caused in the rat a significant increase in hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase activity, while a reduction of this enzyme activity was observed after 1 microgram of T4 per g. The hepatic glycogen content was found to be depleted and a marked elevation in protein, RNA and DNA contents were observed after both doses of T4.
Partial reversal of alpha 2u globulin gene expression by thyroxine in the liver of diabetic rats.	Synthesis of alpha 2u globulin and its mRNA has been used as an index to monitor the effect of thyroxine on specific gene expression in the liver of hypoinsulinemic male rats. Administration of a physiological dose of thyroxine can partially reverse (to approximately 30% of the normal control) the marked reduction (more than 90%) in the hepatic levels of alpha 2u globulin and its mRNA during streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Estimation of newly synthesized alpha 2u globulin RNA transcripts from the native chromatin of isolated liver nuclei by "nuclear runoff experiments" showed that thyroxine can elevate the rate of transcription of alpha 2u globulin gene in the diabetic rat. Hypoinsulinemic diabetes is also found to be associated with an approximately 35% reduction in the thyroid hormone receptor level as compared to the normal control. The stimulatory effect of thyroxine on the synthesis of alpha 2u globulin and its mRNA was also evident in spontaneous diabetic Wistar "BB" rats. From these studies it can be concluded that severe hypoinsulinemia can cause a decrease in thyroid hormone action at the level of specific gene expression.
Thyroid hormone modulates the expression of a neurofilament antigen in the cerebellar cortex: premature induction and overexpression by basket cells in hyperthyroidism and a critical period for the correction of hypothyroidism.	Neurofilament expression by basket cells of the cerebellar cortex is suppressed in hypothyroidism. By using a monoclonal antibody (mabN210) that selectively recognizes an epitope associated with the 210-kDa neurofilament subunit, we have explored the relationship between thyroid hormone levels and basket cell maturation. In animals rendered hypothyroid by inclusion of propylthiouracil in the maternal drinking water from embryo age E17, there is a complete absence of mabN210 immunoreactivity in the basket cell axons, while the other immunoreactive axons in the cerebellar cortex, primarily Purkinje cell axons and mossy fibers, are apparently unaffected. This deficit can be corrected by treatment with thyroid hormone but there seems to be a critical period for full recovery, for animals treated from birth recover normally whereas there is a gradual diminution in the efficacy of treatment the later it begins. Thyroid hormone therapy begun after postnatal day 30 (P30) leads only to very minor recovery. By contrast, animals on a hyperthyroid regime show premature mabN210-antigen induction in the basket cells and supranormal levels of expression at P25, despite the severe reduction in the number of basket cell somata. This suggests either abnormal compensatory sprouting of axon collaterals by the remaining basket cells or the occurrence, during normal cerebellar corticogenesis, of competition between basket cell axons for a limited number of Purkinje cell targets followed by the elimination of the excess collaterals.
Low mood and response to Levothyroxine treatment in Indian patients with subclinical hypothyroidism.	There is considerable controversy regarding the association of subclinical hypothyrodism (SCH) and depression. We studied the association of SCH with low mood and also investigated the effects of L-thyroxine (LT4) therapy on improvement of symptoms.
Role of beta adrenoceptors in the hypertrophic response to thyroxine.	The ability of beta-adrenoceptor blockade to reduce the hypertrophic response to thyroxine (T4, 0.5 mg/kg per day, s.c.) was tested in New Zealand white rabbits. Two beta-adrenergic blocking agents, one a full antagonist (propranolol, 9.6 mg/kg per day) and the other a partial agonist (pindolol, 0.96 mg/kg per day) were administered in combination with T4 in an effort to reduce myocardial hypertrophy. A 3 and 16 day group were generated to test the time course of the hypertrophic and receptor responses. Coronary blood flow was measured using radioactive microspheres, and beta-adrenoceptor number and affinity were measured using 125I(-) pindolol as the radioligand. T4 increased coronary blood flow to 1.95 times control values in the 3 day group and 2.2 times control levels in the 16 day group; beta-adrenoceptor number was increased similarly in 3 and 16 day groups to 1.9 times control Bmax levels. Heart weight (HW) to body weight (BW) ratios were significantly increased in only the 16 day group to 1.22 and 1.61 times control, respectively. Treatment with propranolol + T4 blunted the coronary blood flow increase, but receptor upregulation occurred to the same extent as with either substance alone. The HW/BW was increased to 1.49 times control. Pindolol + T4 did not decrease coronary blood flow but blocked beta-adrenoceptor upregulation. The HW was reduced to control levels and the HW/BW ratio was 1.40 times control and significantly decreased from T4 alone. Thus, pindolol was effective in reducing the hypertrophic response to T4, whereas propranolol was only moderately effective in doing so.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thyroid hormone regulation of neurons staining for a pro-TRH-derived cryptic peptide sequence in the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.	The influence of thyroid hormones on neurons staining for a pro-TRH-derived cryptic peptide sequence in the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus was assessed by using quantitative immunocytochemistry. The antiserum used for immunocytochemical studies recognized a cryptic fragment of pro-TRH located in the Phe 178-Ser 186 region of the precursor. Hypothyroid female rats obtained following 1 month administration of 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil (PTU) as well as euthyroid animals were treated with a low (3 micrograms/kg/day) or high (67 micrograms/kg/day) dose of L-thyroxine (T4) for 4-10 days before sacrifice. All the animals received an intraventricular injection of colchicine 2 days prior to perfusion with 4% paraformaldehyde. PTU treatment induced an increase (45% over control) in the number of immunostained neurons. The administration of a low dose of T4 to hypothyroid animals slightly increased the number of staining for a pro-TRH-derived cryptic sequence neurons, while being uneffective in euthyroid rats. In hypothyroid animals, a 4-day treatment with the high dose of T4 did not produce any changes whereas the 7-day treatment reduced the number of positive cells to 42% of control. In euthyroid rats treated with the high dose of T4 for 4 and 7 days, the number of stained neurons was reduced to 60 and 37% of control, respectively. These results indicate that thyroid hormones can modify the amounts of staining for a pro-TRH-derived cryptic sequence in hypothalamic paraventricular neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Harderian glands of golden hamsters: morphological and biochemical responses to thyroid hormones.	Manipulation of circulating levels of thyroid hormones modifies Harderian gland structure and porphyrin concentrations in male and female golden hamsters. Specifically, thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) induce the morphological conversion of the Harderian glands of females to approximate those of the male. Further, porphyrin concentrations are markedly decreased by this treatment. This effect occurs in ovariectomized animals as well, indicating that the gonads are not involved. Suppression of thyroid function by potassium perchlorate (KClO4) drastically reduces Harderian gland weight in both males and females. However, KClO4 decreases porphyrin levels in the Harderian glands of females and increases it in the male. Concurrently, KClO4 also induces a morphological conversion of the Harderian glands of males to the female type. This effect is evident in photoperiods of either 14:10 (h) or 8:16 (h).
Mass and in situ molar activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in the median eminence. Effect of thyroidectomy and thyroid hormone replacement.	The effects of thyroidectomy and thyroid hormone replacement on the mass and in situ molar activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the median eminence (ME) and superior cervical ganglia (SCG) of male rats were investigated. The tissue specificity of these effects were evaluated by comparing the ME with the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). All animals were thyroparathyroidectomized (Tx) or sham Tx. Tx rats were treated daily for 3 weeks with 0.15 M NaCl (solvent vehicle) or L-thyroxine (T4). Two doses of T4, 10 and 100 micrograms/day/kg BW, were used. Sham Tx rats were treated with 0.15 M NaCl. All animals were studied on the day following the last treatment. The mass of TH was determined using an immunoblot assay, and the in situ activity of TH was calculated from the rate of intracellular accumulation of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) after administration of an inhibitor of DOPA decarboxylase activity. In the ME, thyro-parathyroidectomy resulted in a 40% increase in the mass and a 100% increase in the in situ molar activity of TH over that of sham Tx rats. Compared to Tx animals given 0.15 M NaCl, Tx rats treated with a low dose of T4 (10 micrograms/day/kg BW) had a reduced quantity of TH in the ME, but the molar activity of the enzyme was increased. Treatment of Tx rats with a high dose of T4 (100 micrograms/day/kg BW) restored TH mass but not the in situ activity of TH in the ME to the level seen in sham Tx rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glucoregulatory function of thyroid hormones: evidence for an insulin-independent effect.	The effect of hyperglycemia on glucose kinetics was investigated in normal and T4-treated miniature pigs. 1. T4-treatment increased basal plasma glucose (G) (+ 20%) and glucose turnover (+36%). 2. Glucose infusion (2 mg/kg x min) in controls increased insulin and glucose utilization (Rd), but decreased glucagon and hepatic glucose production (Ra). After T4-treatment glucose increased insulin, decreased glucagon and Ra but only a slight effect on G and Rd were observed. 3. Infusing glucose + somatostatin resulted in hyperglycemia in both groups due to an initial fall in Ra and Rd followed by an increase in Rd, where total Ra (endogenous + exogenous exceeded Rd. Glucose intolerance was more pronounced in controls, due to a T4-induced increase in Rd. During this non-steady state the increment in Rd per increment in G was calculated and showed 1.5 in controls and 2.5 after T4-treatment. These data give evidence that thyroid hormones increase glucose utilization during hypoinsulinemia.
Influence of growth hormone and thyroxine on endochondral osteogenesis in the mandibular condyle and proximal tibial epiphysis.	Interrelationships of growth hormone and thyroxine effects on endochondral osteogenesis have been investigated. Evidence is offered that thyroxine augments the effect of growth hormone on the mandibular condyle just as at other osteogenetic centers, for example proximal tibial epiphysis in hypophysectomized rats. This contrasts with previous reports of a unique thyroxine antagonism to the effect of growth hormone on condylar development. In a further study on tibial epiphysis, special attention was given to assure absence of the endogenous thyroid hormone by adding thyroidectomy to hypophysectomy and reducing the possibility of thyroteopin residues in growth hormone. By histochemical tests, the responses of both calcified and noncalcified regions of the epiphyseal cartilage plate were measured. Graded growth hormone doses stimulated graded response in a noncalcified region. Thyroxine augmented this response eightfold. The width of the calcified region of the plate did not vary with treatment.
Developing rat cerebellum--I. Effects of abnormal thyroid states and undernutrition on sulfated glycosaminoglycans.	Sulfated glycosaminoglycans deposition during rat postnatal cerebellar developmental is affected by altered thyroid states and undernutrition. These ontogenetic alterations seem not to be specific but to be one aspect of the general acceleration, slowing down and reduction of the cerebellar development occurring in thyroid-deficient, hyperthyroid and undernourished rats, respectively.
Developing rat cerebellum--II. Effects of abnormal thyroid states and undernutrition on hyaluronic acid.	The early postnatal pattern of hyaluronic acid (HA) deposition in rat cerebellum is affected by thyroid deficiency, thyroxine treatment and undernutrition. The modification of HA ontogenesis apparently reflects the smaller number of cells formed in undernourished rats, or alterations of cell maturation (accelerated in thyroxine-treated and slowed down in thyroid-deficient rats). The developmentally regulated loss of tissue water is also affected in the three conditions; this can be correlated with the roughly simultaneous disappearance of extracellular, but not of total, HA.
Developing rat cerebellum--III. Effects of abnormal thyroid states and undernutrition on gangliosides.	Alteration of rat postnatal cerebellar development produced by undernutrition, thyroxine treatment and thyroid deficiency also involves ganglioside deposition. The distribution of the different ganglioside types is apparently unaffected but quantitative alterations are present that reflect the reduction of cell number and cell process surface in the adult, and either acceleration or slowing down or reduction of cell formation and maturation occurring during cerebellar development in the three experimental situations.
Intestinal motor activity in experimental hyperthyroidism in conscious dogs.	The small intestinal motor effects of experimental hyperthyroidism were studied in 8 conscious dogs to reveal possible mechanisms of accelerated small bowel transit in hyperthyroidism. Six strain gauge transducers were implanted on the small intestine of each dog. Long-term hyperthyroidism was induced by subcutaneous administration of 100 and 200 micrograms/kg.day of thyroxin. Application of thyroxin did not interrupt the cyclic fasting motor activity. Thyroxin (100 micrograms/kg.day) caused a slight increase in the period of the migrating motor complex (p less than 0.05). The maximum contractile frequency rose dose-dependently up to 11% (p less than 0.05). During phase 2 and the digestive state the contraction frequency increased up to 29% and 27%, respectively (p less than 0.05). More contractions occurred in groups during the digestive state in hyperthyroidism. Half of the dogs showed giant migrating contractions during thyroxin administration, whereas those contractions were not observed during the control period. We conclude that fasted and postprandial intestinal motility is changed in experimental hyperthyroidism. Acceleration of small bowel transit may be caused by changes in contractile pattern of phase 2 and the digestive state or by the increased frequency of giant migrating contractions.
The lung as a target organ for thyroxine.	The isolated perfused in situ rat lung preparation was used to investigate the chronic effect of thyroxine on the intermediary metabolism in the mammalian lung. Treatment with thyroxine caused stimulation of the rate of glucose utilization (91 +/- 11 mumol/g dry weight/hr versus 54 +/- 5 mumol/g dry weight/hr). The increase in the rate of glucose uptake was not accompanied by a similar increase in lactate output. Alanine and pyruvate release were also similar in both groups. The implication is that oxidative metabolism of glucose was increased. This study provides the first unequivocal evidence that the mammalian lung is a target organ for thyroxine.
Mechanism of action of thyroxine (T4) on the biogenesis of mitochondria using antibiotic-free system: a gerontological survey.	For the biogenesis of mitochondria from rat liver two different genetic systems are responsible, the nucleo-cytoplasmic system, covering 85-90% of the protein, and the mitochondrial system (10-15%). These data have been confirmed by experiment. Both protein fractions were separated by phosphate buffer (pH 11.5), in which only one of them is soluble. The experiments were performed with 3 age groups of rat: 1, 3 and 24 months. The ratio of both protein fractions was not dependent on rat age. The activities of the two genetic systems were examined by the in-vivo incorporation rate of 14 C-leucine. For the mitochondrial genetic system this rate was approximately equal in all of the age groups, while that for the nucleo-cytoplasmic genetic system was reduced in the 24 month group. Hence an age-dependence is demonstrated for the nucleo-cytoplasmic genetic system. The results of our investigation permit the conclusion that the role of the mitochondrial genetic system increases at senescence. To investigate the effect of T4 on the biogenesis of mitochondria, both protein fractions were estimated also in liver of rats treated with T4. The result showed that there was an increase for all the age groups for protein only of nucleo-cytoplasmic origin. Since it is known that T4 stimulates the biogenesis of mitochondria and increases its protein content, it could be inferred that the action of T4 is channelled through the nucleo-cytoplasmic system independent on age, and that the nucleus plays the major regulatory role in the biogenesis of mitochondria.
The effects of thyroid state on beta-adrenergic and serotonergic receptors in rat brain.	The effects of hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism, alone or in combination with the tricyclic antidepressant desmethylimipramine (DMI), on brain beta-adrenergic and serotonin (5HT2) receptors were studied in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Intraperitoneal administration of T3 or T4 for 7 days increased the number of cortical beta-adrenergic and 5HT2 receptors. These increases were significant at levels of 250 micrograms/kg or above for both hormones. Neither thyroidectomy nor "reverse" T3 (rT3) (500 micrograms/kg) produced an effect on either receptor type. The down-regulation of beta-adrenergic receptors produced by daily subcutaneous injections of 20 mg/kg of DMI for 7 days was partially offset by concurrent administration of T4, whereas the down-regulation of 5HT2 receptors produced by the drug was not affected by concurrent administration of either T3 or T4. Hypothyroidism (thyroidectomy) did not significantly affect the adaptation of these receptor populations to DMI. As regards brain regions other than cortex, T4 (250 micrograms/kg) produced the same changes in hippocampus as in cortex, while thyroidectomy decreased beta-adrenergic receptors only in the cerebellum. Thyroxine also elevated 5HT2 receptors in the hippocampus; thyroidectomy caused a significant decrease in 5HT2 receptors in the striatum.
The effect of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism on alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic responsiveness in rat aortic smooth muscle.	We report the role of thyroid hormones on in vitro responsiveness of rat aortic smooth muscle to alpha-adrenergic stimulation. Four groups of rats: hypothyroid, hyperthyroid, thyroxine (0.1 mg/kg) treated hypothyroid and controls were employed. Response of alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors was evoked with 6 incremental doses (10(-9) to 10(-4) M) of preferential alpha 1-agonist, phenylephrine and alpha 2-agonist, clonidine respectively. alpha 1-Adrenoceptors were also evoked by phenylephrine after blockade of alpha 2-adrenoceptors with 10(-7) M yohimbine. Similarly, alpha 2-adrenoceptors were stimulated with clonidine after blocking alpha 1-adrenoceptors with selective antagonists prazosin (10(-7) M). Aortic responsiveness to alpha-agonist norepinephrine was compared between the aortae of hypothyroid and euthyroid rats after blockade of alpha 2-adrenoceptors with 10(-4) M corynanthine. We report that in hypothyroid aortae, alpha 1-adrenergic response was significantly decreased, the dose response curve shifted to the right and the maximal response was 30% less than the normal; alpha 2-adrenergic response was completely inhibited in hypothyroid state; also, IP injections of 0.1 mg/kg thyroxine twice in 48 h to thyroidectomized rats reversed the effects of hypothyroidism on both alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic response. Hyperthyroidism did not alter alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic response. These results signify the role of thyroid hormones in the regulation of alpha-adrenergic response in rat aortae.
Aberrant growth of mossy fibers and enhanced kainic acid binding sites induced in rats by early hyperthyroidism.	Early hyperthyroidism induces an aberrant growth of hippocampal mossy fibers both in the fascia dentata (supragranular layer) and in Ammon's horn (infrapyramidal layer of CA3). Using a quantitative autoradiographic method, we found a corresponding increase in kainic acid binding sites supporting previous observations of a very close association between mossy fiber terminals and kainic acid binding sites.
Dualistic effects of thyroid hormone on a human hepatoma cell line: inhibition of thyroxine-binding globulin synthesis and stimulation of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein synthesis.	In order to examine the action of thyroid hormone on the secretory proteins of the liver, we investigated the effects of thyroid hormones on the synthesis of T4-binding globulin (TBG), alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (AGP), and albumin in a human hepatoblastoma cell line, Hep G2. Hep G2 cells grown to be confluent in medium with 10% fetal calf serum were further cultured in serum-free medium for 4 days, and followed by treatment with hormones for 2 days changing the medium every 24 h. On day 2 (the second 24 h of hormone treatment), about 30% of TBG accumulation was inhibited by 10(-12) M T3 and 50% was inhibited by 10(-8) M T3, although no change was observed on day 1 (the first 24 h of hormone treatment). This inhibitory effect of T3 closely resembled the effect of T3 on [35S]methionine-labeled TBG synthesis by the cells incubated for 3 h after 42 h of pretreatment. About 30-55% of the newly synthesized [35S]TBG immunoprecipitated with anti-TBG serum was inhibited by 10(-8) M T3. These results showed that thyroid hormone inhibited TBG synthesis in Hep G2 cells. On the other hand, T3 stimulated the accumulation of AGP in the media on day 1 (140% of control by 10(-8) M T3), and the effect increased drastically on day 2 (250% of control by 10(-8) M T3). No effect of T3 on albumin accumulation or total protein synthesis was seen. The concentrations of T4 which had significant effects on TBG and AGP accumulation were 10 and 10(3) times higher than those of T3, respectively. In conclusion, thyroid hormone has dualistic effects on the secretory proteins synthesized by a human hepatoblastoma cell line: physiological concentrations of thyroid hormones decrease the synthesis of TBG, but increase the synthesis of AGP.
Negative chronotropic effects of thyroxine on the isolated bullfrog heart.	An acute application of L-thyroxine (T4) to everted sinus-atrium preparations of bullfrog showed negative chronotropic effects consisting of two processes: an initial peak at 2-5 min and a delayed plateau at 40-60 min. The initial effect was blocked by Cd2+ and tetraethyl-ammonium (TEA). The delayed effect was suppressed by Cd2+ and NaCN.
Influence of beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxation on alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction of rat pulmonary artery to adrenaline or noradrenaline.	Concentration-response (contraction) curves to either adrenaline or noradrenaline were obtained on isolated ring preparations of pulmonary artery from rats. In preparations from young rats the curve for adrenaline was bell-shaped, unless beta-adrenoceptors were blocked with propranolol (1 X 10(-6) M). The maximum contraction to adrenaline was less in the absence than in the presence of propranolol. In preparations from aged rats the adrenaline curve was no longer bell-shaped, even in the absence of propranolol. This reflected a decrease in the beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxant responses of preparations from aged rats, seen as a separation between the concentration-response (relaxation) curves to adrenaline on preparations (phenoxybenzamine-treated, KCl-contracted) from young and aged rats. In preparations from young rats the noradrenaline curve was not bell-shaped, but if the preparations were from young rats treated with thyroxine (T4), then a bell-shaped curve for noradrenaline was obtained, unless beta-adrenoceptors were blocked by propranolol. These data could be explained by an increase in beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxant responses of preparations from T4-treated rats, seen as a separation in the concentration-response (relaxation) curves to noradrenaline on preparations from control and T4-treated rats, respectively. Thus alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated contractile responses of rat pulmonary artery preparations, to adrenaline or noradrenaline, can be attenuated by activation of beta-adrenoceptors, mediating relaxation, and the extent of this attenuation changes under the influence of factors, such as ageing or T4-treatment, which modify beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxation in this blood vessel type.
GABA uptake is inhibited by thyroid hormones: implications for depression.	Studies of the effects of thyroid hormones on the uptake of neurotransmitters by homogenates of rat cerebral cortex have revealed a significant competitive inhibition of neuronal uptake of [3H]GABA by thyroid hormones (T3 greater than T4 greater than rT3). The IC50 for inhibition of GABA uptake by T3 was estimated at 4 microM and that of T4 at 11 microns. GABA uptake in homogenates of cerebral cortex from hypothyroid rats was significantly enhanced over that of controls; however, uptake in tissues from hyperthyroid rats was not significantly diminished.
Hyperthyroidism selectively increases oxidative metabolism of slow-oxidative motor units.	The effects of thyroid hormone on the NADH-tetrazolium reductase activity (oxidative metabolism marker) of soleus (slow-oxidative) and tensor fascia lata (fast-glycolytic) motoneurons were determined and compared with changes in a variety of enzyme activities in the corresponding muscle fibers. Histochemical assays have demonstrated a selective and qualitative conversion in muscle fiber ATPase and quantitative increases of NADH-tetrazolium reductase (oxidative) and mitochondrial alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (glycolytic) activities in the soleus muscle. Paralleling the selective action upon the soleus slow muscle fibers was a selective central nervous system effect of thyroid hormone on oxidative enzymes of soleus slow-oxidative motoneurons. This indicates that either thyroid hormones act directly and specifically on slow motoneurons or that conversion of the muscle fibers by thyroid hormones produces secondary changes in the motoneuron. These data strengthen the hypothesis that oxidative enzyme activities in motoneurons are tightly matched with oxidative enzyme activities in muscle fibers.
Regulation of insulin-like growth factor II receptors by growth hormone and insulin in rat adipocytes.	The acute and long-term effects of growth hormone (GH) on the binding of insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) were evaluated in adipose cells from hypophysectomized rats given replacement therapy with thyroxine and hydrocortisone and in cells from their sham-operated littermates. After the cells were incubated with insulin and/or GH, the recycling of IGF-II receptors was metabolically inhibited by treating the cells with KCN. IGF-II binding was 100 +/- 20% higher in cells from GH-deficient animals when compared with sham-operated controls. These GH-deficient cells also showed an increased sensitivity for insulin as compared with control cells (the EC50 for insulin was 0.06 ng/ml in GH-deficient cells and 0.3 ng/ml in control cells). However, the maximal incremental effect of insulin on IGF-II binding was reduced approximately 27% by hypophysectomy. GH added to the incubation medium increased the number of IGF-II binding sites by 100 +/- 18% in cells from hypophysectomized animals. This increase was rapidly induced (t1/2, approximately 10 min), but the time course was slower than that for the stimulatory effect of insulin. Half-maximal effect of GH on IGF-II binding was obtained at approximately equal to 10 ng/ml. Thus, GH added in vitro exerted a rapid insulin-like effect on the number of IGF-II receptors. GH also appears to play a regulating role for maintaining the cellular number of IGF-II receptors and, in addition, modulates the stimulatory effect of insulin on IGF-II binding.
Calcium channel blocker inhibition of the calmodulin-dependent effects of thyroid hormone and milrinone on rabbit myocardial membrane Ca2+-ATPase activity.	The Ca2+-ATPase activity of rabbit myocardial membranes is stimulated in vitro by L-thyroxine and by milrinone, a bipyridine. These effects are concentration dependent and calmodulin requiring. The calcium channel blockers nifedipine and verapamil have been reported to have anti-calmodulin effects in other assay systems. In this study we have examined the effects of nifedipine and verapamil on rabbit myocardial membrane Ca2+-ATPase activity, in the absence (basal activity) and presence of exogenous L-thyroxine (T4), 10(-10) M, and milrinone, 10(-7) M. Basal enzyme activity was inhibited by a minimum of 10(-6) M nifedipine (IC50 of 3.4 X 10(-5) M) and 10(-5) M verapamil (IC50 of 1.5 X 10(-4) M). Both calcium antagonists inhibited enzyme stimulation by T4 and milrinone, with half-maximal inhibition of T4 and milrinone effects, respectively, at 2.9 X 10(-5) M and 9.0 X 10(-6) M nifedipine and 3.0 X 10(-5) M and 5.2 X 10(-5) M verapamil. The addition of exogenous purified calmodulin, 40 ng/micrograms membrane protein, in the presence of 10(-5) M nifedipine or verapamil restored T4-stimulated enzyme activity. Nifedipine and verapamil, each at a concentration of 10(-6) M, significantly inhibited binding of radioiodinated calmodulin to rabbit heart membranes in vitro. These studies provide evidence that nifedipine and verapamil have an anti-calmodulin effect in this myocardial enzyme system. Through interaction with calmodulin, the channel blockers inhibit thyroid hormone and milrinone stimulation of myocardial membrane Ca2+-ATPase.
Effects of neonatal undernutrition and subsequent nutritional rehabilitation or administration of thyroxine and hydrocortisone on the inositol phosphatase activities in rat intestine.	Undernutrition during the suckling period imposed by maternal protein deficiency during lactation resulted in elevated inositol triphosphatase activity (units per gram of wet tissue) in the ileum and lower phytase activity in the duodenum and jejunum. Activities of inositol triphosphatase in the duodenum and jejunum and phytase in ileum were unaffected. Postweaning nutritional rehabilitation resulted in elevated specific activities of both enzymes in all segments; however, activities of whole segments were similar to the corresponding control values. Elevation of inositol triphosphatase (ileum) and decline of phytase (duodenum and jejunum) activities due to undernutrition were reversed by the administration of hydrocortisone or thyroxine during undernutrition. These results suggest that maturation of activities of inositol triphosphatase in ileum (by hydrocortisone) and phytase in all segments (by both hydrocortisone and thyroxine) is under hormonal regulation, and the effects of neonatal undernutrition may be partly due to hormonal imbalances.
Effects of thyroidectomy and thyroxine replacement on the responsiveness of the anterior pituitaries from male rats to thyrotropin-releasing hormone in vitro.	Thyroidectomy decreased prolactin concentrations in the anterior pituitary (AP) and serum of the male rat. The amount of basal and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-stimulated release of prolactin by AP in vitro was lower in thyroidectomized (Tx) rats than in sham Tx rats. These results suggest that the inhibitory effects of thyroidectomy on pituitary and serum prolactin in male rats are mediated in part by the reduction of the production and spontaneous release of prolactin and the responsiveness of prolactin to TRH.
Role of thyroxine in releasing tissue plasminogen activators]	Experiments on animals have shown that thyroxin at doses of 10, 50 and 150 micrograms/kg promotes releasing the plasminogen tissue activator from the kidneys, liver and heart. It leads to an increase in the difference in its content in the venous and arterial blood of these organs as compared to control animals. Thyroxin at the above doses simultaneously decreases the level of the plasminogen activator in the pulmonary, renal and liver tissue as well as in the myocardium.
The effect of hydrocortisone, thyroxine, and phenobarbital on diamine oxidase activity in newborn rat intestine.	There is a reported association between administration of prenatal glucocorticoids and a decreased incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis in human infants. In rats, the degree of ischemic bowel disease correlates negatively with intestinal diamine oxidase (E.C. 1.4.3.6) activity. Since the administration of hydrocortisone, thyroxine, or phenobarbital to newborn rat pups affects the development of intestinal enzymes, we were interested in knowing whether hydrocortisone, thyroxine, or phenobarbital specifically affect intestinal diamine oxidase activity. We injected rat pups with hydrocortisone sodium succinate, 1-thyroxine pentahydrate, sodium salt, sodium phenobarbital, or the control solution on days 4, 6, 8, or 10 of life (phenobarbital, days 3, 5, 7, or 9). Pups were injected 3 days consecutively (phenobarbital, 4 days), and all were sacrificed on days 7, 9, 11, and 13. Intestinal diamine oxidase and intestinal invertase (E.C. 3.2.1.26) activities were measured. Invertase was used as a control enzyme because it is known to be induced by glucocorticoid hormones. We found that the hydrocortisone-injected pups had 10-fold higher specific activity of invertase than the saline-injected animals. Diamine oxidase activity was significantly higher in the group receiving hydrocortisone and sacrificed on days 7, 9, and 11. Enzyme activity in both the hydrocortisone-injected and saline-injected groups was equal on day 13, as was enzyme activity on all days in the thyroxine-injected and sodium hydroxide-injected groups, and the phenobarbital-injected and the saline-injected groups. Our results suggest that diamine oxidase activity may be induced by hydrocortisone, but is not affected by thyroxine or phenobarbital.
Thyroid hormones regulate the amount of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone in the hypothalamic median eminence of the rat.	The negative-feedback action of thyroid hormones on TRH in the hypothalamic median eminence was examined. Thyroidectomy caused a progressive decrease in TRH content of the median eminence, but not of the whole hypothalamus. In contrast, it did not affect the LHRH content of the median eminence. Administration of thyroid hormone prevented the decrease in TRH content of the median eminence after thyroidectomy. Destruction of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) led to a significant reduction in TRH content of the median eminence in normal and thyroidectomized rats. These data provide evidence that thyroid hormones regulate directly the amount of median eminence TRH which is derived from the hypothalamic PVN in the rat.
Neonatal hyperthyroidism alters hepatic epidermal growth factor receptor ontogeny in mice.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) liver receptor ontogeny and somatic growth were studied in mice from day 7 to day 70 postnatally to assess long-term effects of short-term postnatal thyroxine treatment. The mice were given 0.4 micrograms thyroxine/g body weight/day for the 1st wk of life. EGF receptor binding in liver tissue was studied on days 7, 15, 20, 30, and 70 postnatally. Treated animals had accelerated eyelid opening and tooth eruption, and permanent growth retardation was obvious from the second week of life. Hepatic EGF receptor-binding capacity increased markedly in control mice with increasing age in contrast to a very slow increase in treated mice, making the difference statistically significant (P less than 0.01) from day 30. The affinity of EGF receptor binding initially was similar in the two groups of animals (1.09 x 10(9) M-1 and 1.02 x 10(9) M-1) and increased by day 30 in controls (2.57 x 10(9) M-1), an increase that was not observed in treated animals either at day 30 or 70. These results suggest a sensitive period of imprinting during the first 7 days postnatally, a period when thyroxine can exert a permanent effect on later growth and later hepatic EGF receptor number.
Thyroxine and testosterone transcriptionally regulate renin gene expression in the submaxillary gland of normal and transgenic mice carrying extra copies of the Ren2 gene.	Expression of the mouse renin genes (Ren1 and Ren2) in the submaxillary gland of female mice has been analyzed following administration of thyroxine (T4) or dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Both hormones appear to act independently on mRNA accumulation which increases about 5 fold over basal level. In vitro transcription assays in isolated nuclei demonstrate that both hormones act at the transcriptional level. The effects of DHT and T4 were also analyzed in transgenic mice obtained by microinjection of the Ren2 gene. We show that T4 is as efficient as DHT in promoting renin mRNA accumulation in these transgenic animals, in spite of their low basal level of Ren2 mRNA. Structural comparison of the Ren1 and Ren2 promoters with those of other genes regulated by T4 shows the conservation of two discrete regions.
Effects of thyroidectomy and thyroxine replacement on the release of luteinizing hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone in vitro.	The effects of thyroidectomy and thyroxine (T4) replacement on the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in ovariectomized (Ovx) rats were studied. Immediately after ovariectomy, rats were thyroidectomized (Tx) or sham-Tx. The Ovx-Tx rats were injected subcutaneously with either saline or T4 (2 micrograms/100 g body weight) daily for 30 days before sacrifice. Sham-Tx rats were treated with saline only. Twenty hours after the last injection, the blood sample was obtained by decapitation. The excised anterior pituitary gland (AP) was bisected and incubated in vitro with or without 0.1, 0.5, 2.5, and 50 ng GnRH at 37 degrees C for 4 h. The mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) was bisected and incubated with or without the AP of Ovx donor rat in vitro. Concentrations of LH and GnRH in the medium and that of LH in the serum were measured by radioimmunoassay. LH in the serum of Tx rats was higher than that in the serum of sham-Tx and Tx-T4 rats. Thyroidectomy resulted in an increase of LH release by Ovx rat AP, stimulated with or without 0.1 and 50 ng GnRH, as well as in an increase of immunoreactive GnRH release from MBH of Ovx rats in vitro. After a 4-hour incubation with donor APs, the LH in the medium containing MBH obtained from Tx rats was significantly higher than that obtained from sham-Tx and Tx-T4 rats. LH concentrations, in both sera and media, as well as GnRH concentration in the media of euthyroid and T4-replaced Tx groups were nonsignificantly different. These results suggest that T4 is inhibitory to the basal and GnRH-stimulated LH release as well as to the release of GnRH in the absence of ovarian hormones.
Accumulation of newly synthesized myosin heavy chain during thyroxine-induced myofiber type transition.	Slow-tonic myofiber to fast-twitch myofiber conversion was induced in chickens by feeding thyroxine. Incorporation of newly synthesized myosin heavy chain (MHC) into myofibers and myofibrils was followed by immunofluorescence with antibodies specific for fast-twitch MHC and slow-tonic MHC. Presence of more than one type of myosin heavy chain was detected in thyroxine-induced transitional myofibers of chicken pectoralis. Myofibers undergoing a transition were histochemically identical to immunologically cross-reacting, transitional myofibers of normal anterior latissimus dorsi. Newly synthesized MHC appeared to be incorporated uniformly across the cross sectional area of transitional myofibers and incorporated homogeneously into each sarcomere of transitional myofibrils. These observations are consistent with a theory of continuous protein exchange between myofibrillar protein and a non-myofibrillar protein pool, such that every sarcomere of a myofibril, and every myofibril of a myofiber, would be turned over simultaneously.
The effect of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) upon insulin secretion from isolated rat pancreatic islets.	In order to observe the effect of triiodothyronine (T3) or thyroxine (T4) on glucose-induced insulin release from pancreatic islets, isolated pancreatic islets from Wistar male rat were incubated in modified Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate solution (0.2% BSA, pH 7.4) with 3 mM, 5 mM or 10 mM glucose for 60 min with or without exposure to T3 (2.5 micrograms/ml or 7.5 micrograms/ml) or T4 (2.5 micrograms/ml or 7.5 micrograms/ml). Direct exposure of isolated pancreatic islets to T3 or T4 did not have any effect on glucose-induced insulin release from pancreatic islets during 60 min incubation. But, in successive 60 min incubations following 60 min rest periods after exposure to T3 or T4 in the first incubation, glucose-induced insulin release from isolated pancreatic islets previously exposed to T4 was reduced at 5 mM and 10 mM glucose concentrations and previous exposure to T3 had no effect on glucose-induced insulin release. A delayed effect of T4 on the mechanism of insulin secretion from pancreatic islets was suggested.
Discordance of serum and tissue somatomedin levels in growth hormone-stimulated growth in the rat.	Although the somatomedins are believed to mediate GH-induced somatic growth, circulating levels of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) do not always correlate with growth rate. To evaluate a paracrine or autocrine effect that might explain this discordance, the concentrations of plasma and tissue IGF-I were compared with indices of growth in hypophysectomized rats treated with rat GH (rGH). The rats received a total of 250 micrograms rGH by either continuous pump infusion (P) or twice daily injections (I). After 4 days of treatment, the amounts of IGF-I present in acetic acid extracts of liver and kidney and in native serum were determined by RIA and related to proximal tibial epiphyseal plate width. Tibial epiphyseal plate width increased from 198 +/- 6 microns (mean +/- SE) in untreated controls to 339 +/- 13 microns in group P and 347 +/- 9 micron in group I; weight gain was 11.6 +/- 1.0 g in group P and 9.6 +/- 0.8 g in group I, while control animals lost 1.0 g. Serum concentrations of IGF-I were no different between control animals and those in the injection group (0.91 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.90 +/- 0.06 U/ml), whereas levels in the infusion group increased slightly (1.1 +/- 0.05 U/ml). In contrast, rGH administration caused tissue IGF-I to double in liver (control, 0.24 +/- 0.04 U/g; P, 0.51 +/- 0.03 U/g; I, 0.46 +/- 0.05 U/g) and nearly triple in kidney (control, 0.52 +/- 0.05 U/g; P, 1.51 +/- 0.09 U/g; I, 1.36 +/- 0.08 U/g). There was no detectable change in somatomedin-binding protein by gel exclusion chromatography. Since the rGH administered was sufficient to stimulate growth and increase tissue somatomedin levels without corresponding increases in circulating IGF-I, an autocrine or paracrine action of IGF-I appears to mediate GH's initial somatogenic actions in the young rat.
Role of thyroid in sexual and body weight cycles of the migratory redheaded bunting, Emberiza bruniceps.	In the male redheaded bunting, Emberiza bruniceps, kept under natural lighting in northern India (Lat 25 degrees 18'N, Long 83 degrees 01'E), testicular growth began during March/April and full spermatogenesis was achieved in May/June; thereafter, the testes regressed and remained regressed for the rest of the year. Thyroidectomy between November and April partially suppressed photoinduced testicular growth in May/June, but did not prevent testicular regression in July. The extent to which thyroidectomy suppressed photoinduced testicular growth was directly related to the time elapsed between thyroidectomy and photostimulation. Thyroidectomy in mid-late May induced testicular regression, an effect which was reversed by daily im injection of 500-2000 ng thyroxine/bird/day/30 days. Thyroidectomy or treatment of intact or thyroidectomized birds between July and March when the testes were regressed had no immediate effect on testicular growth. Body weight which was about 24 g between December and March, increased to about 28 g during the breeding season. Thereafter, it decreased to 21-22 g between August and October. Thyroidectomy between November and May caused an immediate fall in body weight, an effect which was reversed by daily im injection of 500-2000 ng thyroxine/bird/day/30 days. Neither thyroidectomy nor thyroxine treatment prevented the seasonal fall in body weight in June and July nor affected body weight between August and October. It is suggested that in the male redheaded bunting, under natural lighting, thyroid hormones are necessary for the full development of the testes and an increase in body weight during the breeding season. However, thyroid hormones do not appear to be necessary for the development of photorefractoriness or for the seasonal decrease in body weight.
Infrapyramidal mossy fibers and two-way avoidance learning: developmental modification of hippocampal circuitry and adult behavior of rats and mice.	The extent of the intra- and infrapyramidal mossy fiber projection (IIP-MF) in the hippocampus of mice and rats is strain-specific, and correlates negatively with the strain-specific capacity of avoidance learning. If variations of the IIP-MF influence the capacity for 2-way avoidance learning, then developmental modification of the IIP-MF projection in an individual member of a strain should remain correlated with its adult behavior. Pups of strains with high avoidance capacity and small IIP-MF projections (RHA rats, DBA/2 and BALB/c mice) were injected with varying doses of thyroxine during the postnatal period. This transient hyperthyroidism resulted in a strong, yet largely unpredictable, variability of the IIP-MF projection in the adult animals. Furthermore, postnatal saline injections also increased the variability of the IIP-MF projection; however, this was to a lesser degree than when using thyroxine. The animals were tested for 2-way avoidance learning at the age of 90-120 d. Many showed strain-atypical avoidance scores. These deviations from the inherited level of 2-way avoidance learning were strongly correlated with the magnitude of the IIP-MF projection, regardless of whether the structural changes resulted from thyroxine or saline injections. A multivariate analysis showed that the observed correlations could neither be explained by thyroxine-induced changes in brain weight nor by individual differences of other terminal fields in the hippocampal region CA3. These results suggest that the extent of the IIP-MF projection is influenced by several genetic and epigenetic factors. Irrespective of the underlying causes, the magnitude of the IIP-MF (or of an unknown but well-correlated variable) appears to bias the adult capacity for 2-way avoidance learning predictably.
Studies on the mode of action for thyroid gland tumor promotion in rats by phenobarbital.	A study was conducted to determine the mode of action for phenobarbital promotion of thyroid follicular cell neoplasia in rats using an initiation-promotion model established by Hiasa et al. (Y. Hiasa, Y. Kitahori, M. Ohshima, T. Fujita, T. Yuasa, N. Konishi, and A. Miyashiro, 1982a, Carcinogenesis 3, 1187-1190). Seven groups of Charles River Crl: CD(SD)BR rats (20/sex/group) were treated with either saline or 700 mg/kg DHPN [N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine] administered subcutaneously once a week for 5 weeks (Initiation Phase) followed by 15 weeks of treatment with control diet or diets containing 500 ppm of phenobarbital (Promotion Phase). Groups of rats were also treated with L-thyroxine (50 micrograms/kg/day) in the diet to determine its effect on thyroid gland tumor promotion by phenobarbital. The incidence of thyroid follicular adenomas in DHPN male rats treated with phenobarbital was markedly increased [83% (15/18 rats)] as compared to rats receiving DHPN alone [37% (6/16 rats)]. Thyroxine treatment completely blocked the tumor promoting effect of phenobarbital in that the tumor incidence [25% (5/20 rats)] was reduced back to or somewhat less than that observed with DHPN alone. In female rats no tumors were observed with DHPN nor was a promoting effect of phenobarbital observed. These results demonstrate the potential for a microsomal enzyme inducer such as phenobarbital to alter the incidence of thyroid gland neoplasia in the male rat. The inhibitory effect of L-thyroxine on tumor promotion by phenobarbital supports the hypothesis that the promoting effect of phenobarbital is mediated via increased pituitary secretion of thyroid stimulating hormone as a compensatory response to the known effects of phenobarbital on peripheral thyroxine metabolism and excretion.
Thyroxine accelerates the differentiation of granular convoluted tubule cells and the appearance of epidermal growth factor in the submandibular gland of the neonatal mouse. A fine-structural immunocytochemical study.	The effects of the administration of thyroxine (T4) on the postnatal cytodifferentiation of granular convoluted tubule (GCT) cells of the submandibular gland (SMG) of Lewiss-Webster mice were studied by light and electron microscopy. From birth, mice of both sexes were injected daily with T4 (sc 0.4 micrograms/g BW) and were sacrificed 24 h after the last injection at 7, 9, 11, 14 and 21 days of age. Control mice received vehicle only. In control mice, granulated striated duct (SD) cells were first detected at 9 days and 7 days of age by light- and electron microscopy, respectively. Furthermore, a few scattered granulated SD cells were observed by light microscopy as early as day 7 in T4-treated mice of both sexes. At 21 days of age, in mice given T4, GCT cells were larger and more numerous and the Golgi apparatus, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and secretion granules were more abundant. In control mice, immunocytochemical staining for epidermal growth factor-(EGF) was first detectable at day 21 at the light- and electron-microscopic levels. However, positively stained cells were first observed in T4-treated mice by light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry at 14 and 11 days of age, respectively. Moreover, in the 21-day-old T4-treated mice, the number of immunoreactive GCT cells, as well as the intensity of the staining per cell, was markedly increased as compared to controls. EGF immunostaining was restricted to GCT cells, and by immuno-electron-microscopy was only seen in apical secretory granules in granulated SD cells and GCT cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of thyrotrophin on epidermal growth factor receptors in monolayer cultures of porcine thyroid cells.	Primary cultures of porcine thyroid cells, grown as monolayers, showed saturable binding of epidermal growth factor (EGF). Scatchard analysis resolved the binding to a high-affinity/low-capacity site (dissociation constant = 0.17 nmol/l, maximal binding capacity = 1.67 pmol/10(6) cells) and a low-affinity/high-capacity site. Preincubation of thyroid monolayers with TSH for 3 days caused an increase in binding of 125I-labelled EGF due to an increase in the number of receptors, with the binding affinity unchanged. This effect was dose-dependent within the range of TSH concentrations 0.01-100 mu/l. The same effect was seen with dibutyryl cyclic AMP (10-1000 mumol/l). When the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide was included in the TSH preincubation, the increase in EGF binding was abolished. The TSH effect on EGF binding was not mediated by thyroid hormones, since neither thyroxine (T4) nor tri-iodothyronine (T3) at 0.1 nmol/l-10 mumol/l could mimic the effect of TSH, nor could antisera to T3 or T4 neutralize the effect of TSH. The concentration of extracellular iodide (10 nmol/l-10 mmol/l) had no effect on the binding of 125I-labelled EGF. The results demonstrate that TSH increases the number of receptor sites for binding of EGF to thyroid monolayers in vitro. This effect is dependent upon protein synthesis and is mediated by cyclic AMP but not by thyroid hormones or iodide. This effect on binding of EGF may contribute to the trophic action of TSH.
Hormonal regulation of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin and hepatic alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA in rats.	We evaluated the effects of pituitary dependent hormones on alpha 1-antitrypsin in male rats. Hepatic alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA was measured by in vitro translation and by specific hybridization with a mouse cDNA alpha 1-antitrypsin probe. Hypophysectomy caused a 50-75% decrease in serum elastase inhibitory capacity (measuring functional alpha 1-antitrypsin) and hepatic alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA content. In hypophysectomized animals, no increase in elastase inhibitory capacity or alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA levels by translation was found when met-human growth hormone alone or corticosterone, dihydrotestosterone and thyroxine were given together. Growth hormone increased alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA by hybridization to a small extent. Addition of growth hormone to the combination of corticosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and thyroxine increased serum elastase inhibitory capacity and alpha 1-antitrypsin mRNA. We conclude that growth hormone acts synergistically with the other pituitary dependent hormones to regulate serum and hepatic mRNA levels of alpha 1-antitrypsin.
Stimulation by thyroid hormone of renin mRNA in mouse submandibular gland.	Renin in the female mouse submandibular gland (SMG) is known to increase in response to thyroid hormone. In the present study a 500 base-pair renin cDNA was used to quantify renin mRNA, the product of transcription of the Ren-2 gene, in the female mouse SMG in response to thyroid hormone to assess more directly the nature of stimulation of renin biosynthesis. After daily injection for 1 wk renin mRNA increased from control values of 36 +/- 3 SE ng/g tissue to 212 +/- 41 with triiodothyronine (T3; P less than 0.005) and to 217 +/- 33 with thyroxine (T4; P less than 0.005). Treatment of mice with propylthiouracil (PTU) decreased renin mRNA to 1.2 +/- 0.3 (P less than 0.005) and after subsequent injection of T3 for 1 wk renin mRNA increased to 289 +/- 35 ng/g tissue. The time course of the response to a single injection of thyroid hormone indicated a rapid response with significant increases in renin mRNA by 1 h, reaching values 3.5 +/- 0.4 times control (P less than 0.005) by 5 h. Such rapid effects are consistent with a direct nuclear action of thyroid hormone in stimulating transcription of the Ren-2 gene in mouse submandibular gland or in stabilization of nuclear precursor renin mRNA or both.
Hormonal regulation of epithelial cell proliferation in the fetal mouse duodenum in vitro.	In adult rodents, radioautographic studies have shown that cell proliferation in the small intestinal epithelium is confined to the crypts. However, before birth DNA synthesis occurs also on villi. The role of extrinsic factors in the establishment of the adult pattern of enterocyte proliferation was studied in 17-day fetal mouse duodenal explants cultured with a completely synthetic medium. The effect of dexamethasone (30 and 300 ng/ml), thyroxine (10 nM), and insulin (125 mU/ml) on labelling indices was determined after 48 hours of culture. At the onset of the culture period close to 60% of the cells located in the first five cell positions in the intervillous areas became labelled after 4 hours of culture in presence of 3H-thymidine; 8% of the other epithelial cells found higher in the intervillous areas and on villi were also labelled. After 48 hours of culture, well differentiated crypts have developed in all the explants cultured with or without the hormones. The addition of thyroxine or insulin did not modify the labelling indices. However, after 48 hours of culture, the presence of dexamethasone (both concentrations) significantly reduced the labelling index of the cells found over cell position 5 but had no effect on the labelling index of cells located at the bottom of the crypts. When labelling index was determined for each cell position in the crypts at the end of the culture period, it appeared that dexamethasone (300 ng/ml) had no effect thereon for the first five cell positions but had a significant influence on the transitional zone from cell position 6 through 15.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thyroidal modulation of androgenic expression in mice submandibular gland.	We investigated the influence of testes and thyroid gland on the maintenance of biochemical parameters and of [3H]R1881 binding sites of adult mice submandibular gland (SMG). Castration (Cx) performed at beginning of puberty prevented sex-dependent SMG development without interfering with maximal androgen binding capacity. Thyroidectomy (Tx) had strong effects on SMG, mainly by lowering the number of androgen binding sites. All alterations could be fully reverted after treatment with testosterone (5 mg/animal, single dose) or with thyroxine (T4, 250 micrograms/animal per day during 5 days). The effects of Cx on SMG could be reverted by therapy with testosterone, T4, or with both hormones (testosterone + T4) in a non-synergistic fashion. It is shown the importance of thyroidal activity on the physiological maintenance of androgen receptors in the murine SMG; the role played by thyroid gland seems to be essential for the full expression of the androgen-dependent SMG activity in adult mice.
Circadian and pulsatile thyrotropin secretion in euthyroid man under the influence of thyroid hormone and glucocorticoid administration.	The inhibitory action of thyroid hormones (TH) and glucocorticoids on circadian and pulsatile TSH secretion was investigated in groups of five normal men by sampling blood every 10 min for 24 h (start, 1750 h). Serum TSH was measured by a sensitive immunoradiometric assay. Continuous infusion of 50 micrograms T3 or 250 micrograms T4 for 8 h (1900-0300 h) significantly suppressed serum TSH levels (T3, P less than 0.025; T4, P less than 0.05; by paired t test). Administration of 3 g sodium ipodate 7 h before TH infusion did not alter the TSH response to T3, but T4-dependent suppression was abolished. Pulsatile TSH secretion [basally, 5.8 +/- 1.3 (+/- SD) pulses/24 h, as analyzed by the PULSAR program; 6.8 +/- 1.9 by the Cluster program] was not significantly altered by any of the experimental conditions. The additional finding of blunting of the TSH response to TRH after TH alone or ipodate and T3 suggests a predominantly pituitary feedback action of TH exerted via conversion of T4 to T3. In contrast, bolus injections of 4 mg dexamethasone (dex) at 1900 and 2200 h abolished TSH pulses for at least 6 h (PULSAR, 6.6 +/- 1.6 pulses/24 h basally vs. 3.6 +/- 3.0 under dex; Cluster, 7.0 +/- 2.7 pulses/24 h basally vs. 1.6 +/- 1.6 under dex). Dex administration also resulted in a prompt, sustained, and significant suppression of basal TSH (P less than 0.0005). Together with a normal serum TSH response to TRH (in separate experiments 1, 9, and 19 h after dex administration), these data suggest that glucocorticoid feedback occurs at a suprapituitary level.
Effects of injecting growth hormone or thyroxine on milk production and blood plasma concentrations of insulin-like growth factors I and II in dairy cows.	Three cows received injections of thyroxine (T4; 20 mg/day), four cows GH (40 mg/day) and three cows saline (control; 10 ml/day) on days 5-8 of a 16-day experimental period during peak lactation. Milk yield increased 13% in cows given GH (from 14.6 to 16.5 kg/day) and 15% in cows given T4 (from 15.8 to 18.2 kg/day) but did not change in control cows. Injection of T4 increased milkfat and lactose content but reduced milk protein content. Injection of GH was without effect on milk composition during the injection period but milk protein rose after injections ceased. Injection of T4 increased plasma concentrations of T4 and tri-iodothyronine six- to sevenfold, with maxima occurring on day 9. Injection of GH increased the plasma concentration of GH five- to tenfold 5 h after injection. The plasma concentration of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) was increased in cows given GH in both morning (08.30 h) and afternoon (14.30 h) blood samples, the difference being greatest in afternoon samples in which plasma IGF-I content increased from 3.3 to 6.8 nmol/l. Injection of T4 reduced the plasma concentration of IGF-I in morning samples but the concentration in afternoon samples remained relatively constant throughout the 16-day experimental period. The plasma concentration of IGF-II rose in morning samples in all treatment groups to reach a maximum of 200-250 nmol/l by day 9. The galactopoietic response to injection of GH but not T4 was associated with an increase in plasma concentration of IGF-I. Changes in plasma concentration of IGF-II were not associated with changes in milk yield.
Influence of thyroid status on responses of rat isolated pulmonary artery, vas deferens and trachea to smooth muscle relaxant drugs.	1 Responses to relaxant drugs have been examined on isolated KCl-contracted smooth muscle preparations from rats in which thyroid status was changed by prior treatment with either thyroxine (T4) for 1 week (preparations of pulmonary artery, trachea and vas deferens) or methimazole for 10-12 weeks (pulmonary artery preparations). 2 On pulmonary artery preparations, T4 treatment caused a significant increase in the magnitude of the relaxant responses to noradrenaline and isoprenaline but not those to adrenaline. The potency of noradrenaline was increased 5.6 fold but that of isoprenaline and adrenaline was unchanged. This resulted in a change in the relative potencies from adrenaline greater than noradrenaline (controls) to noradrenaline = adrenaline (T4-treated). Methimazole treatment caused a significant reduction in the magnitude of the responses to noradrenaline and in its potency (2.8 fold). Isoprenaline and procaterol were unaffected. 3 On pulmonary artery preparations, T4 treatment did not affect the magnitude of the responses to forskolin, sodium nitrite or isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX) or their potency. In vitro treatment with the monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, iproniazid or pargyline, did not potentiate responses to either noradrenaline or isoprenaline. Therefore, it was concluded that the T4-induced changes in the magnitude of the responses to noradrenaline and isoprenaline and in the potency of noradrenaline were unlikely to be due to reduced activity of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase(s) or MAO. 4 On preparations of vas deferens and trachea, T4 treatment had no effect on the magnitude of the responses to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, adrenaline or procaterol. 5 We concluded that, on pulmonary artery T4 treatment of rats increased, while methimazole treatment reduced, the magnitude of the responses to, and/or the potency of, the beta-adrenoceptor agonists, noradrenaline and isoprenaline, by a mechanism which is specifically associated with the beta-adrenoceptors, and which is probably selective for the beta-subtype. T4 treatment caused no change in responses of vas deferens to beta-adrenoceptor agonists. On trachea the only change was a small increase in the potency of noradrenaline. The differences in the effects of T4 treatment on beta-adrenoceptormediated responses of rat pulmonary artery, vas deferens and trachea may be due to the differences in the beta-adrenoceptor populations of these three tissue types and/or differences in the effects of thyroid hormones on vascular compared with non-vascular smooth muscle.
Effects of various doses of thyroxine and triiodothyronine on the metamorphosis of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus).	Two experiments were carried out to clarify the effects of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) on flounder metamorphosis. In the first experiment, three doses of T4 were administered to premetamorphic flounder larvae together with thiourea (TU). Thiourea treatment (30 ppm in ambient seawater) alone caused metamorphic stasis in the fish, although the beginning of the right eye migration was not completely inhibited. T4 at 100 and 10 ppb in ambient seawater induced metamorphosis in the thiourea-treated larvae. The fish of these groups completed translocation of the right eye to the left side and resorption of elongated dorsal fin rays. However, 1 ppb T4 failed to induce metamorphic climax. The elongated dorsal fin rays continued to grow until the end of the experiment in the group treated with TU alone and in combination with 1 ppb T4. In the second experiment, premetamorphic flounder larvae were treated with two doses of T4 and three doses of T3. The T3 treatment was several times more potent than T4 treatment in the induction of metamorphosis. The results of the present study suggest that the metamorphic events of flounder larvae are dependent on the thyroid hormone concentration, and the relative biological potency of T4 and T3 on flounder metamorphosis is similar to that observed in mammals and amphibia.
Influence of the dwarf mouse mutation on skeletal and cardiac myosin isoforms. Effect of one injection of thyroxine on skeletal and cardiac muscle phenotype.	The dwarf mutant is an autosomal recessive mutation of the mouse which causes a defective development of those anterior pituitary cells responsible for the production of thyroid-stimulating hormone, growth hormone, and prolactin. These mice are thus genetically hypothyroid and provide a model system in which one can investigate the influence of thyroid hormone on the transitions of the myosin heavy chain isoforms. We have carried out a qualitative and quantitative investigation of the myosin heavy chain isoforms present at various developmental stages and following one injection of 1 microgram of thyroxine. Myosin heavy chains were identified by nondissociating gel electrophoresis, localized by indirect immunofluorescence, and quantitated by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique. We find that in skeletal muscle, the appearance of the adult fast myosin heavy chain is severely retarded, that the neonatal myosin heavy chain is never totally eliminated, and that there is an overall increase in the number of fibers containing slow myosin heavy chain. In cardiac tissue the adult phenotype is never attained and beta-cardiac myosin heavy chain remains the predominant isoform. A single injection of 1 microgram of thyroxine was sufficient to cause a slight acceleration in the appearance of the adult fast myosin heavy chain in skeletal muscle, but only after 6-8 days. However, in the cardiac muscle, one injection of thyroxine resulted in a more rapid but transient expression of the alpha-cardiac myosin heavy chain, suggesting that the mechanism of action of thyroid hormone is different in these two tissues.
The effects of l-thyroxine and dexamethasone on steroid dynamics in male cynomologous monkeys.	Male cynomologous monkeys (M. fascicularis) were infused with [3H]androgens, [14C]estrogens and [3H]cortisol before and after the administration of l-thyroxine, (l-T4) 150 micrograms/day for 6 wk, dexamethasone 8 mg every 8 h for 3 doses and dexamethasone 1.0 mg/day for 8 days. Blood samples were obtained before each of the infusions and analyzed for endogenous T, A, E1, E2 and F concentrations, % free T and % free E2, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and cortisol binding globulin (CBG) capacity. When l-T4 was being administered, T4 and triiodothyronine (T3) concentrations were also measured. Blood samples were obtained during the infusions and analyzed for radioactivity as testosterone (T), androstenedione (A), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), estradiol (E1), estrone (E2), and cortisol (F). All urine was collected for 96 h and an aliquot of the pooled urine was analyzed for radioactivity as estrone and estradiol glucuronide. The administration of l-T4 for 6 wk to 3 monkeys resulted in a marked rise in T4 and T3 levels, from 4.8 +/- 0.4 micrograms/dl and from 136 +/- 6 to 515 +/- 71 ng/dl, respectively. MCRT, MCRE2 and MCRE1 did not change, but MCRA values increased slightly and MCRF increased 2-3 fold. [rho]T.E2 did not change but [rho]A.E1BM showed a slight but significant increase. The inter-conversions between the androgens and between the estrogens were not altered. There was a 2-3-fold increase in SHBG and a decrease in %FT but no change in %FE2 or CBG. The concentrations of T, A and DHT rose but there was no trend in the levels of the estrogens. The administration of dexamethasone 8 mg every 8 h for 3 doses or 1 mg/day for 8 days caused no changes in the MCRs for T, A, E1 and E2 but did cause a significant decrease in MCRF. Measurement of splanchnic and peripheral tissue extractions before and after acute dexamethasone administration in 1 monkey showed that the decrease in MCRF was the result of a marked decrease, 11-2%, in splanchnic extraction of F. The extractions of T and E2 were relatively unaffected. The concentrations of T and F fell but E2 remained the same. % FT and % FE2 rose slightly and the concentrations of SHBG and CBG were unchanged. The androgen interconversions and estrogen interconversions were not affected but [rho]T,E2BM and [rho]A,E1BM showed slight decreases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neuropeptide Y and pancreatic polypeptide: effects on thyroid hormone secretion in the mouse.	Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is known to occur in adrenergic nerves within the thyroid gland and may thus be released concomitantly with noradrenaline upon adrenergic activation. In this study, the effects of combined administration of NPY and noradrenaline on thyroid hormone secretion were investigated under in vivo conditions in the mouse. Mice were pretreated with radioiodine and thyroxine: the subsequent release of radioiodine into blood upon stimulation is a reflection of the release of thyroid hormones since more than 90% of the released radioiodine is in the form of thyroid hormones. It was found that TSH enhanced the radioiodine levels in blood to 197 +/- 8% (P less than 0.01). Noradrenaline inhibited the TSH-induced thyroid hormone secretion to 168 +/- 6% (P less than 0.01), and NPY potentiated this inhibitory action of noradrenaline (P less than 0.01): the TSH-induced thyroid hormone secretion was only 19 +/- 6% after administration of both noradrenaline and NPY. Furthermore, alpha-adrenoceptor blockade by phentolamine abolished the effect of noradrenaline on TSH-induced thyroid hormone secretion and, during alpha-adrenoceptor blockade, NPY potentiated the secretory response to TSH. To study the specificity of the effects exerted by NPY, the influences of avian pancreatic polypeptide (APP) and bovine pancreatic polypeptide (BPP), which both show structural similarities to NPY, were also studied. However, in contrast to NPY, neither APP nor BPP had any effects on TSH-stimulated thyroid hormone secretion. Interestingly, an inhibitory action on non-stimulated radioiodine release (= TSH-independent thyroid hormone secretion) was seen in response to APP and BPP. This effect was not exerted by NPY.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Age and thyroid hormone as factors in the responses of BHE rats to starvation-refeeding.	The interacting effects of thyroid hormone, age, and duration of starvation on the enzyme and liver lipid responses of BHE rats to starvation-refeeding were studied. Rats were starved for 2, 4, or 7 days and refed a 65% glucose diet for 2 days. The rats were either 150 or 420 days of age and injected daily with either saline or 10 micrograms thyroxine/100 g body weight. Neither age nor duration of starvation affected the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase or malic enzyme activity or liver lipid response to starvation-refeeding. However, thyroxine treatment potentiated the response to starvation-refeeding in the 420-day-old rats when the duration of starvation increased from 2 to 7 days.
Adrenal function in hypothyroidism.	In ten patients with hypothyroidism the adrenal response to stimulation with tetracosactrin was found to be normal, and to be unchanged after they had been treated with thyroxine. Though the response to insulin hypoglycaemia was less in the hypothyroid phase, it was never outside the normal limits. Hence it seems unlikely that the adrenal response to stress is appreciably lowered in hypothyroidism.
The effects of an acute load of thyroxine on the transport and peripheral metabolism of triiodothyronine in man.	In order to examine the question of whether thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) influences significantly the peripheral metabolism of 3,3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T(3)) in vivo, paired studies of the effects of a large intravenous load of L-thyroxine (T(4)) on the kinetics of (131)I-labeled T(3) metabolism were carried out in five normal subjects. After the T(4) load, both the early distributive loss of labeled T(3) from serum and the volume of T(3) distribution, observed after distribution equilibrium had been attained, were greatly increased. These alterations were consistent with those to be expected from displacement of T(3) from its extracellular binding sites. After the T(4) load, however, the fractional rate of T(3) turnover was decreased. This finding is ascribed either to competition between T(3) and T(4) for common intracellular pathways of degradation or excretion or to displacement of T(3) from sites of more rapid to sites of less rapid metabolism. These effects of alterations in the binding activity of TBG on the peripheral metabolism of T(3), together with those previously reported by others, are consistent with the interpretation that T(3) is significantly bound by TBG in vivo. However, it is suggested that the effects of alterations in the T(3)-TBG binding interaction on the metabolism of T(3) are obscured by alterations in the extracellular-cellular partitioning of T(4) that would result from concurrent alterations in T(4)-binding by TBG.
The catecholamine content of hypothalamic nerve cells after acute exposure to cold and thyroxine administration.	1. In female rats, the intensity of the catecholamine fluorescence was determined in nerve cells of the arcuate and periventricular hypothalamic nuclei by means of a microfluorimetrical technique which is based on the fluorescence method of Falck & Hillarp. Frequency distributions were established by grouping the nerve cells according to their fluorescence intensity which was referred to that of a noradrenaline standard.2. When rats were exposed to a cold environment (4 degrees C) on dioestrous day 1, the frequency distribution of relative fluorescence intensity was shifted towards classes of higher fluorescence intensity within 10 min. The mean relative fluorescence intensity and the symmetry of the distribution did not change further during the next 20 min.3. The change in the frequency distribution was almost completely prevented by L-thyroxine (50 mug/kg) administered 3 hr before exposure to cold.4. The direction of the cold-induced change in the frequency distribution is interpreted as reflecting an increase in neuronal activity. Since it was observed in nerve cells which belong to catecholamine-containing tubero-infundibular neurones, it might be related to the release of thyrotropin. Differences in the frequency distributions of the anterior and posterior tuberal regions are discussed with regard to possible functional implications.
Hormonal effects on ontogeny of swimming ability in the rat: assessment of central nervous system development.	The maturation of swimming behavior and the evoked cortical response to sciatic stimulation were studied in newborn rats receiving thyroxine or cortisol. Compared to that of controls the maturation of swimming is accelerated or delayed 2 to 3 days by thyroxine or cortisol treatment, respectively, and this corresponds to ontogenetic shifts in the characteristics of the evoked potential. Front leg movement during swimming normally diminishes at about 16 days of age and is inhibited by day 22. Thyroxine also advances and cortisol delays the age at which this inhibitory mechanism becomes evident, and compresses (thyroxine) or expands (cortisol) the time interval over which it becomes functional. During early postnatal life certain circuilating hormones can affect the rate and chronology of central nervous system maturation. Swimming behavior may be a simple model to use in studies concerned with factors affecting the functional and behavioral development of the central nervouts system.
Harderian gland: development and influence of early hormonal treatment on porphyrin content.	The porphyrin content of the rat Harderian gland remains low until 12 days of age at which time both porphyrin content and concentration rapidly increase. Intraperitoneal administration of tetraiodothyronine (thyroxine) into newborn animals advances the appearance of porphyrin in the gland. Conversely, a single injection of cortisol acetate into newborns retards the appearance of porphyrin. The time of porphyrin appearance in the gland parallels the time for maturation of the evoked cortical response to visual stimulation in normal and hormone-treated animals.
The effect of triiodothyronine on 2-deoxy-D-(1-3H)glucose uptake in cultured chick embryo heart cells.	The uptake of 2-deoxy-D-[1-3H]glucose ([1-3H]DOG)by cultured chick embryo heart cells was stimulated by exposure to triiodothyronine (T3). The concentration of free T3 for half maximal stimulation of [1-3H]DOG uptake was 8.7 x 10(-10)M. Nuclear binding studies revealed that the Kd for T3 was 4.2 x 10(-10)M. The molar potencies of other thyroactive compounds in stimulating [1-3H]DOG uptake, relative to L-T3, were: 500% for 3'-isopropyl-3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine, 20% for L-thyroxine (T4), 17% for D-T3, 2.2% for D-T4, 0.6% for 3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine and less than 0.1% for 3',5',3-triiodo-L-thyronine and L-thyronine. These data suggest that cultured chick embryo heart cells may serve in the study of the mode of action of thyroid hormones.
The relationship between the structure and activity of rat skeletal muscle mitochondria after thyroidectomy and thyroid hormone treatment.	The fine structure of rat gastrocnemius muscle fibers has been studied after changes were induced in the basal metabolic rate (BMR) by thyroidectomy and L-thyroxine administration under anabolic conditions. Biochemical analysis of skeletal muscle mitochondrial respiration and phosphorylation from the same tissue preparations has been summarized, details having been published earlier (3). As estimated from electron micrographs, the total amount of mitochondria from thyroidectomized animals was enlarged 1.5 times over that from normal controls. The total amount of mitochondria from thyroidectomized or normal animals made hypermetabolic with thyroxine was increased 2.5 to 3.5 times over that from their corresponding controls. In all cases, there was an increase in the mitochondrial population and the profile ratio of cristae to matrix was also considerably increased, thus indicating both relative and absolute enlargements of the entire surface of the cristae per unit fiber. The major structural changes persisted for at least 3 weeks after the cessation of thyroxine treatment, by which time the elevated mitochondrial respiratory and phosphorylative activity had declined to normal values. The hypertrophy and increase in mitochondrial population was more prominent in the perinuclear and subsacrolemmic regions near blood vessels than in the interstices of the fibrils. The very long interfibrillar mitochondria found in both the hypo- and hypermetabolic tissues are more likely to be derived from outgrowths of the original mitochondria rather than from a fusion of smaller ones. These findings are compatible with the ideas expressed elsewhere (see 1, 3, 10) that, under conditions close to the physiological, thyroid hormones control mitochondrial metabolic activity by a subtle alteration in mitochondrial composition with respect to their respiratory and phosphorylative constituents. The possible application of using thyroid hormones in the study of biogenesis of mitochondria and the synthesis of mitochondrial constituents are discussed.
Pretranslational regulation of alpha 2u-globulin in rat liver by growth hormone.	Hypophysectomy is known to cause complete suppression of the hepatic synthesis alpha 2u-globulin. The effect of hypophysectomy on the synthesis of alpha 2u-globulin can be reversed by multiple hormone treatment. The role of pituitary growth hormone in the multihormonal regulation of alpha 2u-globulin in rat liver was examined in the hypophysectomized male rats with and without growth hormone supplementation. Daily treatment of hypophysectomized rats with 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, corticosterone, thyroxine, and growth hormone for 8 days caused about 80% recovery in the hepatic content of alpha 2u-globulin and its corresponding mRNA as determined by radioimmunoassay, in vitro translation, and liquid hybridization with a cloned cDNA probe. However, omission of growth hormone from the treatment regimen failed to raise hepatic alpha 2u-globulin and its mRNA to more than 5% of the normal control. The possible effect of growth hormone on the translation of the mRNA for alpha 2u-globulin was examined with cultured hepatocytes derived from growth hormone-deficient rats. Culture of these cells in the presence of growth hormone for 24 h did not turn on the synthesis of alpha 2u-globulin. These results indicate that growth hormone regulates the synthesis of alpha 2u-globulin by acting at a step antecedent to mRNA translation.
The effect of physiological doses of thyroxine on the level of cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate in pituitary and anterior hypothalamus of male rats of different age.	The levels of cAMP in the pituitary and anterior hypothalamus were determined by competitive binding to protein in male rats aged 2--2.5, 6--8 and 14--18 months. The lowest level of cAMP both in the pituitary and anterior hypothalamus (1.05 +/- 0.17 and 0.85 +/- 0.23 pM) (per mg wet weight, respectively) was found in 6--8 month-old rats. Administration of T4 (2 micrograms/100 g body weight, for 8 days) was followed by a decrease in cAMP level in the pituitary of 14--18 month-old animals, which was not the case with younger rats. The obtained results agree with the earlier observation that the threshold to homeostatic suppression in the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid system of rats decreases with aging. It is suggested that cAMP system contributes to the mechanism of changes in hypothalamic threshold and its pharmacological correction.
Investigations on myelination in vitro. Regulation of sulfolipid synthesis by thyroid hormone in cultures of dissociated brain cells from embryonic mice.	L-3,5,3'-Triiodothyronine (T3) has been shown to influence the synthesis of myelin-associated lipids in cultures of cells dissociated from brains of embryonic mice (Bhat, N. R., Sarlieve, L., Subba Rao, G., and Pieringer, R. A. (1979) J. Biol. Chem. 254, 9342-9344). This culture system was used in the present study to gain additional information on the regulation of the synthesis of myelin lipids by thyroid hormone. The rate of synthesis of the myelin associated sulfolipids remained drastically diminished throughout a 70-day developmental period when cells were grown in the presence of hypothyroid calf serum (T3 < 25 ng/100 ml; thyroxine (T4), 1.2 microgram/ml). However, the activity could be restored to normal levels after 72 h of exposure to deficient medium supplemented with exogenous T3. Half-maximal effects were obtained with 2 X 10(-9) M T3 and 6.25 X 10(-7) M T4. T3 does not alter the synthesis of sulfated mucopolysaccharides, which share adenosine 3'-phosphate, 5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS), as a common precursor, with sulfolipids. This observation argues against the hormone altering the entry of sulfate or the synthesis of PAPS. Rather, T3 acts by changing the activity of the glycolipid:PAPS sulfotransferase(s) in direct proportion to the concentration of T3 in the growth medium. The activity of 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase, another myelin marker was also found to be T3 dependent. The response of sulfolipid synthesis to varying amounts of T3 was also observed in a serum-free medium, which suggests that T3 can function independently of other hormones and serum factors in exerting a relatively specific effect on the regulation of myelination.
Cyclic AMP binding proteins in the rat thyroid cytosol. Effects of suppression and stimulation of thyroid activity.	Suppression of thyroid activity by treatment of rats with thyroxine in vivo significantly decreases the relative concentration of protein kinase regulatory subunits in the thyroid cytosol. Stimulation by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in rats previously treated by thyroxine for 5 days significantly increases the relative concentration of regulatory subunits. Two species of regulatory subunits of protein kinases were separated by ion exchange chromatography. The observed modifications after thyroxine and TSH treatment affect both species of regulatory subunits to the same extent, whereas chronic stimulation by propylthiouracil for 30 days preferentially increases the type II regulatory subunit.
ATP-synthetase activity, respiration and cytochromes of rat heart mitochondria in aging and hyperthyroidism]	The ATP-synthetase activity, the rate of oxygen uptake under different metabolic conditions, the tightness of coupling of respiration to oxidative phosphorylation and the cytochrome contents in heart mitochondria of rats from different age groups were studied under normal conditions and in hyperthyroidism. It was found that heart mitochondria of aged animals did not practically differ in terms of their functional activity from those of the young animals. Administration of thyroxin to the animals from all age groups produced no significant effects on the state of mitochondria, increasing the rate of ATP synthesis on alpha-glycerophosphate, which was especially well-pronounced in aged animals, and the cytochrome content in 1-month-old rats.
Effect of thyroid hormones on the beta-adrenergic receptor internalization in isolated rat hepatocytes]	The effect of the thyroid hormone(T4) on the internalization of beta-adrenergic receptors in isolated hepatocytes was examined. Uptake of [3H]-dihydroalprenolol(DHA) by the cells, which were prepared from untreated-rats, was increased by the time-dependent manner in vitro. The amount of incorporated-[3H]-DHA was decreased by further incubation in the presence of 10(-5) M of d, 1-isoproterenol. However, about 30% of incorporated-[3H]-DHA remained in the cells by this treatment. The amount of this [3H]-DHA remaining in the cells was lowered by pretreatment of the cells with methylamine, monodansylcadaverine, d, 1-isoproterenol or d, 1-propranolol. Then the amount of this [3H]-DHA was recognized as an internalized-receptor-hormone(or -DHA) complex. The total uptake(internalized- + membrane bound-) of [3H]-DHA by the cells was not significantly different between the thyroidectomized (TX + Saline) and T4-treated-thyroidectomized(TX + T4) rats. However, the rate of disappearance of incorporated-[3H]-DHA was greater in the TX + T4 animals compared to that in the TX + Saline animals. In the cells obtained from the TX + T4 animals, internalized-[3H]-DHA was significantly higher than that of the TX + Saline animals. The number of membrane associated beta adrenergic receptors was significantly lower in the TX + T4 group. These results suggest that the thyroid hormone induces an acceleration of internalization of beta adrenergic receptors in hepatocytes.
Thyroid hormones and EPR signals of the liver, brain and blood]	Experimental hypothyreosis was caused by thyroidectomy, hyperthyreosis developed after intraperitoneal administration of thyroxine into animals within 10 days. In liver and brain preparations amplitudes of EPR signals were decreased with g = 2.00 and g = 1.94, respectively, in hypothyreosis and were increased in hyperthyreosis. The ratio of these signals amplitudes was unaltered in brain tissue but in liver tissue it varied depending on thyroid status. In liver tissue intensity of other signals was increased in hyperthyreosis ad decreased in hypothyreosis, except for the signal with g = 2.25 (cytochrome P = 450) the intensity of which decreased in hyperthyreosis and increased in hypothyreosis. These phenomena appear to be relevant to various disorders of metabolism in pathologies of thyroid glands.
Effect of perinatal oestrogen on the pretreatment required for mouse mammary lobular formation in vitro.	Morphological differentiation was enhanced in mammary glands from mice injected with oestradiol as neonates both in vivo, after 9 days of pretreatment with oestrogen and progesterone, and in vitro, either after 6 or 9 days of pretreatment and on all hormone supplements, or after culture with oestradiol, progesterone, aldosterone, insulin and thyroxine with or without prolactin and growth hormone. These hormone combinations further enhanced development, whereas culture with insulin and thyroxine did not. Differentiation in vitro was least on medium containing insulin + thyroxine, and was greatest on the complete medium (insulin, thyroxine, growth hormone, prolactin, aldosterone, progesterone and oestradiol). An intermediate degree of differentiation occurred when growth hormone and prolactin were omitted from the complete medium. Differences in lobule formation between oestrogen-treated and control mice were probably ovary-dependent at the dose used (25 microgram/day), since pretreatment with oestradiol and progesterone was necessary to reveal them. Enhanced hormone sensitivity of murine mammary tissues exposed to oestradiol early in life may be related to subsequent enhanced dysplastic potential of the tissue and provides a further basis for caution in the administration of steroids to immature individuals.
Studies on corticoid action on the toad tadpole tail in vitro.	The effect of adrenal corticoids on the shrinkage of tail segments from Bufo bufo japonicus tadpoles was studied in vitro. Deoxycorticosterone acetate (DCA) was effective in accelerating the shrinkage of tail segments if thyroxine (T4) or triiodothyronine (T3) was present in the medium. The shrinkage caused by DCA was dose dependent. In the absence of thyroid hormone, DCA did not induce tail resorption. Shrinkage of tail segments induced by DCA and T4 was blocked by prolactin. Among the steroid hormones testes in vitro, aldosterone and corticosterone exhibited a potent activity in accelerating shrinkage of tail segments in the presence of T4. The nature of the corticoid action is discussed.
Iodine deficiency produces hypercalcemia and hypercalcitonemia in rats.	To determine the effect of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) on secretion of calcitonin by the thyroid, 50 male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly separated into seven groups. The groups received different diets, medications, or operations [propylthiouracil (PTU), iodine-deficient diet, (LID), acute or chronic thyroxine treatment, sham operation (SO), hemithyroidectomy (Htx), and total thyroidectomy (Ttx)]. two weeks to six months later, serum TSH concentrations were increased in the Htx, Ttx, and LID groups when compared with SO animals. Serum calcitonin concentrations were increased in the LID- and PTU-treated groups and were decreased in animals that chronically received thyroxine. Serum calcium concentrations were increased in the LID animals, decreased in the Ttx animals, and were similar in the other groups. These findings suggest that TSH stimulates both follicular and parafollicular cells in the rat thyroid and that iodine deficiency causes hypercalcemia and hypercalcitonemia.
Hormonal control of immunoreactive somatomedin production by cultured human fibroblasts.	Human growth hormone (hGH) is known to be a potent stimulator of somatomedin secretion in vivo. The induction of somatomedin by growth hormone has been difficult to study in vitro, however, because no organ containing a high concentration of somatomedin has been identified. Because fetal mouse explants have been shown to produce somatomedin in vitro, we have undertaken studies to determine whether postnatal human fibroblast monolayers also produce somatomedin, and if so, whether its production is regulated by other hormones. Quiescent human fibroblasts were exposed to serum-free minimum essential medium, and the medium was assayed for somatomedin concentration using a specific radioimmunoassay for somatomedin-C. A progressive rise in immunoreactive somatomedin to 0.08 U/ml per 10(5) cells per 24 h was observed over 72 h of incubation. This was an underestimation of the actual concentration of immunoreactive somatomedin since the amount measured following acid treatment was at least fourfold higher than in the untreated medium. Growth hormone stimulated immunoreactive somatomedin production in a dose-dependent manner: 5 ng hGH/ml = 0.1 U/ml per 10(5) cells; 50 ng hGH/ml = 0.25 U/ml per 10(5) cells. Platelet-derived growth factor and fibroblast growth factor were also stimulatory, but epidermal growth factor, thyroxine, or cortisol had no effect. Media that had been exposed to human fibroblasts stimulated DNA synthesis in BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts (a cell type that does not produce somatomedin). Medium-derived immuno-reactive somatomedin eluted from Sephacryl S-200 in two major peaks (150,000 and 8,000 mol wt). The higher molecular weight peak is similar to the one observed when whole serum was used. These studies provide a model system for studying the humoral and nonhumoral factors that control the biosynthesis of somatomedin by human tissues. Since immunoreactive somatomedin production may be a rate-limiting factor for fibroblast growth, the delineation of the hormonal control of somatomedin production should lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling human fibroblast growth.
The effect of thyroid hormones on rat pineal indoleamine metabolism in vitro.	The effect of TSH, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) on basic and noradrenaline (NA)-induced indoleamine metabolism was investigated in rat pineal culture based on the observation that, under the experimental system used, melatonin is formed from its amino acid precursor tryptophan. When added to the culture medium, alone or in the presence of NA, TSH in dosages of 5 and 20 mU had no significant effect on pineal tryptophan metabolism.T4 and 2.5 microgram increased the melatonin concentration and, in the presence of NA 10(-4) M, also induced an increase in N-acetylserotonin (NAS). T3, already at a dosage as low as 0.25 microgram enhanced the melatonin concentration, while 2.5 microgram produced significant increases in concentrations of all pineal indoleamines measured. The latter dosage of T3 also enhanced the NA-stimulated NAS. On adding larger quantities of T4 or T3 to the medium none of the changes encountered with the lower dosages could be seen. The results obtained may suggest a direct positive feedback between the thyroid and pineal glands.
Interactions between thyroxine, hydrocortisone and cyclophosphamide in their effects on the eruption of the rat mandibular incisor.	The effects on the unimpeded eruption rates of the rat mandibular incisor of daily doses of thyroxine (0.5 mg/kg) and hydrocortisone (12.5 mg/kg) and of a single injection of cyclophosphamide (40 mg/kg), either alone or in combination, were studied over approximately 15 days. Both the thyroxine and hydrocortisone alone produced increases in eruption, whereas a decrease was recorded with cyclophosphamide alone. When thyroxine was combined with hydrocortisone, the increase in eruption rate was greater than that with thyroxine or hydrocortisone alone. When cyclophosphamide was combined with hydrocortisone, there was no difference compared with cyclophosphamide alone. These results obtained with drug combinations are consistent with eruption having a multifactorial basis.
Effect of thyroid hormone treatment on responses of the isolated working rat heart.	Hearts from rats pretreated either with L-triiodothyronine (T3) or with L-thyroxine (T4) exhibited changed function curve characteristics on the working heart apparatus compared with hearts from vehicle-treated rats. There was no supersensitivity of the hyperthyroid myocardium to the inotropic effect of isoproterenol as estimated by pD2 values. There were significant increases in +dP/dt and -dP/dt in hyperthyroid working hearts over the entire range of the function curve. T3 hearts showed much shorter relaxation times and total contraction times throughout the function curve. T4 hearts showed significantly reduced relaxation times and total contraction times as compared with control at all left atrial filling pressures under 15 cm of water. At high filling pressures T4 heart relaxation times and total contraction times were not different from control, but were however, significantly increased from those of T3 hearts. Area under the left ventricular pressure curve was unchanged by thyroid hormone pretreatment. Heart weight increased about 15% following either T3 or T4 treatment while the increases in (+) or (-) dP/dt and the left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP) were about 20-30%. The increase in cardiac mass certainly played a role in the increased cardiac function. Potency of isoproterenol in hyperthyroid working heart preparations was unchanged from control. The pD2 values, as determined from +dP/dt data, were 8.8 +/- 0.15 for T3-treated hearts, 8.25 +/- 0.40 for T4-treated hearts, and 8.18 +/- 0.12 for euthyroid hearts. While the mechanism(s) for the altered performance of the hyperthyroid working heart are not absolutely known, possible biochemical and physiological changes which may be implicated are discussed.
Rat liver peroxisomes, II. Stimulation of peroxisomal fatty-acid beta-oxidation by thyroid hormones.	From liver homogenates of control and thyroxine-treated rats the light mitochondrial fractions were prepared by differential centrifugation. Mitochondria and peroxisomes of these fractions were further separated by isopycnic sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Analysis of the activities of the peroxisomal marker enzymes catalase and urate oxidase throughout the gradient exhibited completely corresponding distributions with that of peroxisomal palmitoyl-CoA oxidation. Thyroxine treatment did not change the proportion of mitochondria and peroxisomes present in the differential fractions of the homogenate. Consequently, the activities of peroxisomal beta-oxidation in the light mitochondrial fractions of control and thyroxine-treated animals were directly comparable with each other. A 2.5-fold increase in peroxisomal palmitoyl-CoA oxidation raising the activity from 0.089 to 0.220 U/g as estimated in the light mitochondrial fractions was found following treatment of male rats with daily doses of 25 micrograms L-thyroxine (s.c.) over a period of 10 days. Total hepatic peroxisomal fatty-acyl-CoA oxidation was calculated based on estimations in the light mitochondrial fractions. The difficulties encountered herein are discussed. The present result replenishes the broad spectrum of cellular effects exerted by thyroid hormones and indicates that both the mitochondrial and the peroxisomal system contribute to the well known hormone effects such as increase in fatty-acid oxidation, O2 consumption and heat production.
Effects of exogenous thyroxine and growth hormone on satellite cell and myonuclei populations in rapidly growing rat skeletal muscle.	We have examined the independent and combined effects of thyroxine (T4) and bovine growth hormone (bGH) on postweaning growth, satellite cell proliferation and accumulation of myonuclei in extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles in rats. Daily subcutaneous injections of T4 (1.5 micrograms/100 g BW), but not bGH (.25 IU/100 g BW) or T4 + bGH, resulted in elevated incidence of satellite cell nuclei and satellite cells per muscle fiber in transverse thin section, and a significantly (p less than .05) higher percentage of satellite cell nuclei and percentage satellite cells as a percentage of all muscle nuclei in transverse thin sections after one week of injections. The higher incidence of myonuclei per muscle fiber in transverse section in T4 injected rats at the end of the injection period (p less than .05) was interpreted to be the result of a higher concentration of satellite cells exhibiting normal or elevated mitotic activity during the early part of the injection period. The higher incidence of myonuclei per fiber was not caused by an increased mean fiber cross-sectional area in T4 injected rats. These histological observations relative to T4 injections were not accompanied by significantly greater weight, DNA content or estimates of total satellite cells per EDL muscle after either one or three weeks of hormone injections. These studies support the premise that T4 may be directly involved in the regulation of satellite cell proliferation and myonuclei accumulation, however, they do not support the premise that growth hormone exerts a similar influence during early muscle growth and development.
Functional relations of the adrenal cortex, thyroid and pineal body. II. Adrenal cortex reaction following epiphysectomy and administration of melatonin]	Histologic-cytological and morphometrical changes were investigated in the adrenal cortex of male Wistar-rats following pinealectomy and application of melatonin in eu-, hypo-, and hyperthyroid situations. A rat experiment (at an average of 45 d) to find a possible functional connection between the pineal gland and the adrenal cortex was carried out. In the literature, there are only a few of informations about the role of the pineal in regulating ACTH secretion. The results are very contrarily. We found that pinealectomy is connected with a progressive transformation and melatonin with a little regressive transformation in the adrenal cortex. But, it is not evident, that the glomerular zone is activated after both pinealectomy and application of melatonin. In our opinion, the glomerular zone and the secretion of aldosterone increased after as well pinealectomy as melatonin. Application of melatonin diminishes the function of the pineal gland (see group 4-pinealectomy plus melatonin-where was found a progressive transformation). Under these experimental conditions, one can speak of a "pharmacological pinealectomy" after application of melatonin alone. However, the effect of melatonin on the fascicular zone and the glomerular zone is different. The effects of pinealectomy or application of melatonin in combination with methylthiouracil or thyroxin are relatively unimportant.
Influence of thyroid hormone on the phospholipid composition of lung tissue and surfactant of rats.	Thyroid hormone is an important regulator of lipid metabolism in vivo. The effect of thyroid hormone on the phospholipid composition of lung tissue and surfactant has been studied in hypothyroid and hyperthyroid rats in comparison with the control rats. Rats were made hyperthyroid by administering 1 mg of L-thyroxine/kg body weight for six days. Another group of rats was rendered hypothyroid by injecting 1 mci of Na I131 to each rat. Phosphatidyl choline, lysophosphatidyl choline, lysophosphatidyl ethanolamine, phosphatidyl ethanolamine, and sphingomyclin, were estimated by thin layer chromatography. A decrease in phospholipids in hypothyroid and an increase in the hyperthyroid rats was observed. This can be attributed to the altered thyroid activity.
Effects of thyroxine on prehatching developmental rate and behavior in the chick.	Development of chick embryos was studied following injection of thyroxine or the goitrogen thiourea and compared with that in control saline-injected eggs. The three stages recorded (onset of beak clapping, clicking, and hatching movements) all occurred late in embryos treated with thiourea on the 16th day of incubation. Thyroxine-treated eggs hatched significantly early only when incubated in groups in contact. This suggests that an acceleration effect of thyroxine reported in previous work may have represented an unreliable effect of thyroxine coupled with the synchronizing effect of contact with other eggs. Changes in hatching times following hormone injection are compared with these associated with effects of clicks, which are known to regulate developmental rate and to play a part in the synchronization of hatching.
Effects of various hormone treatments on induction of lactation in the ewe.	In Exp. I and II, 52 of 68 ewes were induced into lactation with twice-daily injections of estradiol-17 beta (E2-beta) and progesterone (P4; .5 and 1.25 mg/kg body weight/day) for 7 days. Additional treatments were twice-daily injections (days 18 to 20) of hydrocortisone, growth hormone, thyroxine and thyrotropin releasing hormone alone or in various combinations. In Exp. III, 12 ewes were induced into lactation. In this experiment, all ewes were injected with E2-beta and hydrocortisone, as previously, but four ewes (III-2) had P4 injections extended to day 20, and four ewes (III-3) were not injected with P4. Across experiments, lowest milk yields during lactation and the lowest percentage of ewes induced into lactation (58%) occurred when only E2-beta and P4 were injected. Inclusion of hydrocortisone injections (50 mg/day) induced the highest percentage of ewes into lactation (86%, 38 of 44), the highest peak daily yields of milk and the highest total yields during lactation. Including injections of growth hormone, thyroxine or thyrotropin releasing hormone alone or in combinations did not produce better results than injections of E2-beta and P4 alone. Injections of E2-beta and hydrocortisone without concurrent injections of P4 were less effective. Intramuscular injections of P4 (10 mg/day) from days 8 to 20 did not inhibit lactogenesis or subsequent lactation. Across all experiments, 76% of multiparous (52/68) and 50% of nulliparous (6/12) ewes produced greater than 100 ml milk/day during their lactation (34 to 95 days). However, yields of milk for ewes that lactated were only 25 to 50% of those from postpartum ewes. The importance of including injections of hydrocortisone in the induction procedure was established, but determination of optimum time to inject and potential importance of other hormones requires additional research.
Development of responsiveness of mouse submandibular gland to androgen and thyroid hormone.	The effects of thyroxine and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone on the activities of various marker enzymes in the submandibular glands of immature mice were studied. The responsiveness to thyroid hormone appeared at latest by day five after birth, which was ten d earlier than the appearance of androgen responsiveness. The activity of trypsin-like esteroprotease, however, was not increased by these hormones until day 15 after birth.
Changes in secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone induced by hypovolaemia in rats.	Changes in levels of LH and FSH in the circulation were examined during repeated blood sampling in untreated rats and gonadectomized male and female rats treated with oestrogen, progesterone and thyroxine. Blood depletion induced a significant increase in levels of LH in steroid-treated rats but the increase was abolished when the depleted blood volume was replaced with egg albumen. The rise in LH was less dramatic in male than in female animals. In untreated rats, levels of LH either decreased or did not change with repeated phlebotomy. In contrast, the levels of FSH either did not alter or were lowered in all situations.
Thyroid hormone-induced changes in the hepatic monooxygenase system, heme oxygenase activity and epoxide hydrolase activity in adult male, female and immature rats.	In 8-day-old rat pups, pretreatment with a single injection of L-triiodothyronine or L-thyroxine decreased hepatic cytochrome P-450 content, aminopyrine N-demethylase activity and epoxide hydrolase activity but increased hepatic microsomal cytochrome c reductase, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and heme oxygenase activities without significantly altering UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity (towards o-aminophenol) or the microsomal yield. In adult rats of either sex such single injections of L-triiodothyronine failed to significantly alter these enzyme activities. However, multiple injections evoked changes similar to those observed in the pups, in all these enzyme activities, except that 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity was slightly decreased rather than increased. These findings demonstrate that: (1) The hepatic monooxygenase system in the rat pup is more responsive to thyroid hormones than that in adult. (2) Thyroid hormones can decrease rat liver cytochrome P-450 content and its dependent monooxygenase activity independently of sexual maturity. (3) Thyroid hormones also decrease hepatic epoxide hydrolase activity in both pups and adults. Thus, hyperthyroidism could render the rat pup more susceptible to hepatotoxicity from electrophilic epoxides which utilize microsomal epoxide hydrolase as the major detoxication pathway.
The renin-angiotensin system in thyroidectomized rats.	The influence of thyroidectomy on the renin-angiotensin system was studied in the rat. From 1-6 weeks after thyroidectomy, PRA and plasma renin substrate (PRS) decreased, but the plasma renin concentration remained unchanged, and the renal renin content increased. T3 injection corrected the changes in the plasma renin-angiotensin system of thyroidectomized rats within 20-40 h. After ethinylestradiol treatment, the PRS in thyroidectomized rats rose in the same proportion as that in normal rats, but remained below the normal level. After binephrectomy, on the other hand, the PRS was high, and PRS levels in normal and thyroidectomized animals were similar. Isoproterenol increased PRA and plasma renin concentration in control animals but had no effect on thyroidectomized rats. From the above results it may be concluded that angiotensinogen production is dependent on thyroid hormones and that renin release depends on beta-adrenergic receptor sensitivity to catecholamines, which is reduced by thyroidectomy. (Endocrinology 108: 647, 1981)
Decrease of blood glucose, liver glycogen, and insulin and changes in glucose tolerance in suckling rats treated neonatally with high L-thyroxine doses.	The neo-T4 syndrome was induced by sc administration of high doses (30 microgram) of L-T4 (T4) during 5 consecutive days in the early postnatal period. Rats were injected starting on the 3rd or 6th day of life. Blood glucose and insulin levels as well as liver glycogen levels were determined between the 5th and 20th days of life. This covers the critical period for brain development (the 7th to 12th day) during which most myelination takes place. Blood glucose and insulin and liver glycogen started to decrease after the second injection of T4 and remained quite low until 2 days after the last injection. Glucose tolerance testing was performed on 8- and 12-day-old neo-T4 rats; treatment was started at 3 days of age. After 70 min of fasting, 200 mg glucose/100 g BW were injected ip. Low plasma insulin levels were found after a glucose load. Plasma ketone bodies were higher in neo-T4 rats than in controls after 4 or 5 days of treatment. The rats appeared to be in a severe catabolic state and were using up their reserves. These alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in suckling rats should be considered when interpreting the brain damage produced by large doses of T4 during the early neonatal period.
Effect of thyroxine and methylthiouracil on the development of intramural ganglia in the chick embryo digestive tube]	The development of the vegetative muscular-gastric plexus ganglia has been studied in 17-day-old chick embryos at administration of thyroxin and the inhibitor of its production - methylthiouracil. The substances in question are injected into the air chamber of the egg on the 3d days of incubation. In histological preparations, stained after Nissl, with hematoxylin - eosin and silver impregnated, the total number of cells of the neuroblastic line and that of differentiated neurons are calculated in 50 ganglia. Under thyroxin effect the number of the differentiated neurons in the ganglia increases, while the total number of the neuroblastic cells (comparing to the control) remains constant. Under methylthiouracil effect the number of the differentiated neurons decreases and so does the total number of the neuroblastic cells. Thyroxin and methylthiouracil differently affect the differentiation rate of the neurons at various stages of this process. The effect of the drugs applied is poorly manifested in the duodenum, where (in the control) the total portion of the differentiated cells is higher than in other segments of the digestive tube, and the number of the ganglia without such cells is lower, while the portion of the ganglia with numerous differentiated neurons is more significant.
Thyroxine-stimulated synthesis of microvillus membrane glycoproteins during culture of chick embryonic duodenum.	The effect of thyroxine on biosynthesis of microvillus membrane glycoproteins has been investigated in organ culture of 18-day-old chick embryonic duodenum. Explants incorporate [3H]leucine and [3H]glucosamine continuously, and overall incorporation is enhanced by 10 nM thyroxine during 48 h of labeling; this increase in radioactivity is associated with vesicles released from the microvilli. Light microscope autoradiography, pulse labeling of brush border fragments, and pulse chase experiments reveal that [3H]glucosamine is incorporated into brush border at an increasing rate during culture, and that newly synthesized glycoproteins are discharged into the medium along with brush border enzymes (alkaline phosphatase and maltase). These results suggest that thyroxine stimulates biosynthesis of microvillus membrane glycoproteins, in addition to stimulating vesiculation of the membrane. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of 3H-labeled vesicles and brush border fragments show that [3H]leucine and [3H]glucosamine are incorporated into proteins of high molecular weight. Two protein bands are identified as alkaline phosphatase and maltase. Thyroxine stimulates glycosylation of these enzymes, but does not change protein patterns. Radioactivity assay of alkaline phosphatase- and maltase-active gel slices suggests that thyroxine stimulation of these enzyme activities during culture is not correlated with de novo synthesis of these proteins.
Decrease of lipid peroxidation in liver mitochondria isolated from rabbits with hypothyroidism]	A study was made of chemiluminescence of mitochondria and liposomes formed of mitochondrial phospholipids obtained from the liver of normal and thyroidectomized rabbits. The Fe2+-induced chemiluminescence of mitochondria was characterized by a decrease in the amplitude of "slow flash" and by an increase in the latent period of this parameter occurrence under hypothyrosis. This is accounted for by the decreased rate of lipid peroxidation (LPO) in mitochondria, caused by the deficiency of thyroid hormones in the body. Forty-one hours after a single administration of L-thyroxine (300 micrograms/kgbw) to the rabbits the intensity of chemiluminescense of mitochondria and liposomes not only returned to that of the preparations obtained from the normal animals but even exceeded it approximately 1.5-fold. Apparently, such an abrupt intensification in LPO reactions is consequent on the increased rate of unsaturation of fatty acids in mitochondrial lipids, caused by the hormone administered.
Thyroxine treatment and recovery of hypothyroidism-induced pyramidal cell damage.	We have previously shown that changes occur in pyramids of area 17 of the rat visual cortex both after thyroidectomy (T) at 10 and at 40 days of age. To assess the effects of thyroxine treatment, instituted at different ages after T, two series of experiments were performed. A : rats were T at 10 days of age and either left untreated, or injected once daily with 1.5 micrograms thyroxine (T4)/100 g body weight. Treatment was started at 12, 15, 20, 30 or 40 days of age. Groups of untreated and T4-treated T rats and of age-paired intact controls were killed at different ages, ranging from 40 to 80 days. B : rats were T at 40 days of age, a group being treated with the same T4 dose starting 30 days after T. These animals, solvent-treated T rats and intact age-paired controls were killed at 90 days of age. The number and distribution of spines along the shaft of Golgi-stained pyramidal cells of the visual cortex were measured and fitted by a mathematical model developed previously. Body weights, pituitary growth hormone contents, plasma thyrotropic hormone, thyroxine and triiodothyronine levels were measured to assess the degree of hypothyroidism. It was found that treatment with T4 of rats T at 10 days of age prevented the alterations of pyramidal cells, provided treatment was started by 12 days of age and euthyroidism was maintained. In rats T at 40 days of age, treatment with T4 had an ameliorating effect despite a delay in onset of treatment of 30 days after T. Whatever the mechanisms which are involved, the present results stress once more the importance of very early treatment of hypothyroid newborns, if permanent cortical brain damage is to be prevented.
Diurnal fluctuation of sensitivity to noradrenaline in the rat and thyroid adrenal interaction.	Diurnal fluctuation of the sensitivity to noraxamethasone treatment did not result in the restoration of the diurnal fluctuation of noradrenaline calorigenic action in adrenalectomized animals.
T4-induced metamorphosis in Ambystoma gracile (Baird) from two populations: the effects of aging and temperature.	In order to determine the factors affecting the maturation of the functional hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis, Ambystoma gracile (Baird) larvae of different ages and acclimated to different temperature regimes were exposed to a concentration of thyroxine (T4) which activates the pituitary-thyroid axis. A. gracile from a montane and low-altitude population were utilized. These studies, plus observations concerning spontaneous metamorphosis, indicated that populations of Ambystoma gracile are highly polymorphic as suggested by Sprules (1974 b). A. gracile populations consist of 'obligate transformers', 'obligate neotenes', and 'facultative transformers'--which will metamorphose depending on environmental conditions. The colder high-altitude conditions tend to select against facultative individuals, whereas the less certain low-altitude conditions permit a much higher proportion of animals that exhibit a facultative response with respect to metamorphosis. Interrelationships between environment and physiological parameters that determine morphology in salamanders are discussed with regard to these findings.
Liver to kidney switch of erythropoietin formation.	The liver to kidney switch of erythropoietin (Ep) formation was studied in sheep. The switch was initiated in utero during the last third of the gestation period, and was completed by about 40 days after birth. Administration of testosterone or estradiol benzoate to the fetus/newborn resulted in significant changes in the erythropoietic status of the animal, but failed to affect the initiation and/or completion of the switch. In contrast, a significant delay in the start of the switch occurred in thyroidectomized and chronically anemic fetus-newborns. Treatment of the thyroidectomized animals with thyroxin prevented the delay but accelerated the rate at which the switch was completed. These results demonstrate that 1) the transition from the liver to the kidney is initiated in utero by mechanisms which are independent of sex hormonal influences, 2) the acquisition of the Ep-producing capacity by kidneys is accompanied by a gradual decrease in liver Ep formation, and not by a sudden loss of hepatic Ep production, and 3) the onset and/or progression of the liver to kidney switch is profoundly influenced by the functional status of the thyroid gland and by changes in the oxygen supply-demand ratio.
Thyroid hormone state and the incorporation of (14C) leucine by brain microsomes in developing rats.	Cell-free incorporation of (14C) leucine into protein was 38% greater for cerebral cortical microsomes from 22-day old neonatally thyroidectomized rats compared to littermate controls. In contrast, incorporation by liver microsomes of hypothyroid rats was 33% lower compared to controls, confirming their deficient hormonal state. Incubation of cerebral microsomes from either hypothyroid or euthyroid rats with both homologous and heterologous pH 5 enzyme fractions clearly implicated the pH 5 fraction as the source of the apparent increase in protein synthetic capacity in the hypothyroid brain. Daily administration of L-thyroxine (20 microgram/100 g body wt) to hypothyroid animals between 22 and 25 days of age produced an additional increase in (14C) leucine incorporation into protein by cerebral microsomes, whereas the cell-free protein synthesis rate of euthyroid rats was unaffected by similar hormonal treatment. Liver preparations from both hypothyroid and euthyroid rats exhibited the expected increase in cell-free protein synthesis following thyroxine administration. The results support the hypothesis that the young hypothyroid brain exhibits delayed maturation and that thyroid hormones play a regulatory role in cerebral protein synthesis during a defined developmental period.
Enhanced differentiation of sexually dimorphic organs in L-thyroxine treated Tfm mice.	In the present study we examined the effects of L-thyroxine on the differentiation of three sexually dimorphic organs in mice affected by the testicular feminization mutation (Tfm): the submaxillary salivary glands, the kidneys, and the adrenal glands. In the salivary gland we compared the effects of L-thyroxine and testosterone in normal and Tfm mice on the morphology of the intercalated tubules and on the NGF content of this gland. In the kidney we examined thyroid hormone effects on the sexually dimorphic proximal convoluted tubules. In the adrenal gland we studied the effects of the same hormone on the weight of the organ and on the structure and ultrastructure of the zona reticularis in untreated and L-thyroxine treated Tfm mice. The results show that the thyroid hormone enhances differentiation of the dimorphic structures in all these organs and increases the secretory activity of the salivary and adrenal glands. The stimulatory effects of L-thyroxine are more pronounced on the weight of the adrenal than of the salivary gland and of the kidney. Our results raise the question whether the enhanced differentiation elicited by L-thyroxine in the three sexually dimorphic organs of Tfm mutants is due to a direct hormonal effect, or whether it is fully, or in part, mediated through the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis.
Effects of starvation on in vivo gluconeogenesis in hypo- and hyperthyroid rats.	Studies were performed on rats in vivo to determine whether starvation disrupts glucose metabolic balance after removal of the thyroid gland. Intact controls and thyroidectomized rats were injected daily with 0, 0.1, 1.8, or 25 microgram L-T4/100 g BW. Glucose spaces were similar in all groups. The disappearance of labeled glucose from blood was faster in the thyroidectomized rats injected with 25 microgram L-T4 than in the other groups. Starvation enhanced the production of [14C]glucose from [3-14C]pyruvate in all groups, but this effect occurred earlier in control rats and thyroidectomized rats given 1.8 or 25 microgram L-T4 than in thyroidectomized rats given either 0 or 0.1 microgram L-T4. Starvation also enhanced the appearance of radioactivity in liver glycogen 30 min after the injection of [3-14C]pyruvate in all groups, but this effect was lesser in thyroidectomized rats given 0, 0.1, or 25 microgram L-T4 than in other groups. The normal net production of glucose in fed thyroidectomized rats may be the result of a balanced equilibrium between reduced gluconeogenesis and glycolysis. Results obtained in thyroidectomized rats given 25 microgram L-T4 are discussed in terms of the augmented utilization of the newly formed glucose which compensates for their enhanced gluconeogenesis.
Modification of lethality induced by staphylococcal enterotoxin B in Dutch rabbits.	Intramuscular injection of staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) at a dosage level of 50 microgram/kg of body weight caused death in Dutch rabbits. Lethality was not modified markedly by morphine pretreatment or by hyperthermia, thyrotoxicosis, propylthiouracil feeding, thyroparathyroidectomy, water deprivation, or fasting. The administration of acetylsalicylic acid to the SEB-inoculated rabbit also failed to protect the rabbits from the effect of SEB. Seemingly, the SEB molecular destruction was not markedly modified by alteration of cellular metabolism, and lethal effects of SEB remained unchanged in the morphine- or acetylsalicylic acid-treated rabbits. When SEB was given to six rabbits 3 days after total-body X-irradiation, fever persisted and three rabbits survived. An identical dose of SEB to nonirradiated rabbits produced fever initially, followed by hypothermia and death of all six rabbits.
Differential effect of L-thyroxine on phospholipid biosynthesis in mitochondria and microsomal fraction.	1. The action of L-thyroxine on the incorporation of radioactive choline or CDP-choline into phosphatidylcholine in vitro was explored in liver and brain microsomal fraction and mitochondria obtained from young adult rats. 2. In liver mitochondria isolated from animals treated with L-thyroxine (40 mg/kg body wt. during 6 days), the incorporation of both radioactive precursors into phosphatidylcholine was significantly decreased compared with normal controls, whereas in the total homogenate  and in the microsomal fraction the incorporation was similar in the experimental and control groups. In subcellular fractions isolated from brain, the incorporation of precursors was similar in L-thyroxine-treated and normal animals. 3. Liver mitochondria isolated from normal animals incubated in vitro with CDP-choline, in the presence of different concentrations of L-thyroxine, showed also a marked decrease in the incorporation of label into phosphatidylcholine, whereas no significant changes were found in the total homogenate and in the microsomal fraction compared with control experiments. 4. The differential effect of L-thyroxine on the incorporation of radioactive precursors into phosphatidylcholine of isolated liver subcellular fractions gives further support to the hypothesis that liver mitochondria can independently synthesize part of their own phospholipids. 5. Possible mechanisms of the action of the hormone at the mitochondrial level are discussed.
Oestrogen-induced synthesis of thiamin-binding protein in immature chicks. Kinetics of induction, hormonal specificity and modulation.	A specific radioimmunoassay procedure was developed to monitor the plasma concentrations of thiamin-binding protein, a minor yolk constituent of the chicken egg. By using this sensitive assay, the kinetics of oestrogen-induced elaboration of this specific protein in immature chicks was investigated. After a single injection of the steroid hormone, with an initial lag period of 4-5h the thiamin-binding protein rapidly accumulated in the plasma, attaining peak concentrations around 75h and declining thereafter. A 4-fold amplification of the response was noticed during the secondary stimulation, and this increased to 9-fold during the tertiary stimulation with the steroid hormone. The magnitude of the response was dependent on the hormone dose, and the initial latent period and the duration of the ascending phase of induction were unchanged for the hormonal doses tested during both the primary and secondary stimulations. The circulatory half-life of the protein was 6h as calculated from the measurement of the rate of disappearance of the exogenously administered (125)I-labelled protein. Simultaneous administration of progesterone, dihydrotestosterone or corticosterone did not alter the pattern of induction. On the other hand, hyperthyroidism markedly decreased the oestrogenic response, whereas propylthiouracil-induced hypothyroidism had the opposite effect. The anti-oestrogen E- and Z-clomiphene citrates, administered 30min before oestrogen, effectively blocked the hormonal induction. alpha-Amanitin and cycloheximide administered along with or shortly after the sex steroid severely curtailed the protein elaboration. A comparison of the kinetics of induction of thiamin- and riboflavin-binding proteins by oestrogen revealed that, beneath an apparent similarity, a clear-cut difference exists between the two vitamin-binding proteins, particularly with regard to hormonal dose-dependent sensitivity of induction and the half-life in circulation. The steroid-mediated elaboration of the two yolk proteins thus appears to be not strictly co-ordinated, despite several common regulatory features underlying their induction.
Clofibrate enhancement of mitochondrial carnitine transport system of rat liver and augmentation of liver carnitine and gamma-butyrobetaine hydroxylase activity by thyroxine.	The possibilities that the hypotriglyceridemic effect of clofibrate involves activation of carnitine-dependent oxidation of fatty acids in liver and that this may be partially mediated through thyroxine have been examined. 0.25% clofibrate in diet for 10-15 days, was found to increase carnitine 3-fold in livers of male as well as female rats. Liver carnitine was nearly doubled by L-thyroxine, 6 mg/kg of diet fed for 10 days, and so was the activity of gamma-butyrobetaine hydroxylase. Clofibrate decreased carnitine in heart and urine; thyroxine did not affect these parameters but increased serum carnitine by 26%. Clofibrate feeding doubled the concentration of hepatic long-chain acyl(-)carnitine, mitochondrial carnitine, and the rate of mitochondrial carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase reaction, and enhanced acetoacetate production in liver homogenates as well as mitochondrial oxidation of palmitoylcarnitine in the presence of malonate. The ratio of esterified to free carnitine in urine and serum was also increased by clofibrate. These results suggest that clofibrate and thyroxine may exert their hypotriglyceridemic effect, in part, through the activation of carnitine-mediated transport of fatty acids in liver mitochondria.
Hormone responsiveness of a transplantable rat chondrosarcoma. II. Evidence for in vivo hormone dependence.	We have previously demonstrated that the Swarm rat chondrosarcoma responds to GH-dependent serum factors in vitro by increasing amino acid transport and macromolecular synthesis. The question of in vivo hormone dependence was evaluated by studying the growth of the tumor in hypophysectomized rats. Tumor-bearing hypophysectomized rats were treated with saline, T4, cortisone, bovine GH (bGH), or combinations of these hormones. Tumor growth was assessed in terms of tumor weight. Histological appearance was studied to ascertain the viability of the tumors and the relative contributions of cellularity vs. cartilage matrix to the weight of the chondrosarcoma. The weight of tumors grown in saline-treated hypophysectomized rats was less than 10% of the weight attained by tumors grown in normal rats for a comparable period of time. There was a greater relative cellularity in tumors grown in normal and hormone-treated hypophysectomized rats compared to that in tumors grown in saline-treated hypophysectomized rats. Tumors from saline-treated hypophysectomized rats had an atrophic appearance. Treatment of the hypophysectomized rats with bGH or cortisone increased the rate of tumor growth 5- to 6-fold and restored the histological appearance toward that of tumors grown in normal rats. A greater rate of tumor growth was effected by treatment with a combination of bGH and cortisone. T4 by itself did not stimulate chondrosarcoma growth in the hypophysectomized rat. Withdrawal of bGH and cortisone treatment from hypophysectomized rats after tumors were hormone stimulated caused a loss of the apparent exponential rate of growth observed in hypophysectomized rats treated through the full 38-day observation period. These data indicate that bGH and cortisone act in concert to stimulate the growth of the Swarm rat chondrosarcoma in vivo and that the tumor is hormone dependent.
The influence of thyroxine on the plasma post-heparin lipolytic activity in rats.	10 min after heparin administration (25 IU per 100 g body weight) the plasma post-heparin lipolytic activity (PHLA) was increased in thyreoidectomized (TECT), hypophysectomized (HX) and hypophysectomized + thyreoidectomized (HX + TECT) rats to the same extent as in intact and sham hypophysectomized controls. However, 60 min after heparin the increase of PHLA persisted only in the TECT, HX and HX + TECT rats. After an administration of thyroxine to TECT rats (25 microgram per 100 g body weight) and also to HX + TECT rats (25 microgram or 100 microgram per 100 g body weight) the PHLA decreased similarly as in controls 60 min after heparin administration. The results suggest that the increased PHLA in hypothyroid rats is caused by the deficiency of thyroid hormones, while TSH released after TECT seems not involved in the regulation of enzymes degrading plasma lipoproteins.
Mechanism of the effect of thyroid hormones on renal function]	Chronic experiments were conducted on 32 dogs; it was shown that thyroxin (T4) administered in a dose of 50 micrograms/kg into the renal artery through the implanted catheter produced a primary action on the tubular apparatus of the kidney inducing natriuresis from the first minutes in the experimental kidney. High T4 doses (200 micrograms/kg) activated renal hemodynamics as well. Natriuretic effect of T4 was not eliminated by alpha- and beta-adrenoblocker. Triiodthyronine (T3) manifested a direct action on the vascular apparatus of the kidney from the first minutes. Its activating effect on hemodynamics (in the same way as that of T4) is eliminated or diminished by beta-adrenoblockers.
Thyroid hormone stimulation of plasma protein synthesis in cultured hepatocytes.	The direct effect of thyroid hormones on hepatocellular plasma protein synthesis has been studied in primary monolayer cultures derived from chick embryo liver. The chemically defined medium used for plating and maintaining the cultures contained no other hormones, protein, or serum supplement. Addition of physiological concentrations (10 nM) of triiodothyronine or thyroxine produced 3-fold or greater increases in the rates of synthesis of fibrinogen and three other major secreted proteins. By comparison albumin, transferrin, and total protein synthesis were not substantially increased. The enhanced synthesis of selected plasma proteins could be detected 6 h after initial addition of triiodothyronine. Exposure of the cells to the hormone for only 30 min was nearly as effective as continuous exposure in eliciting the ultimate response. Triiodothyronine exerted its half-maximal effect at a concentration of 1 nM. Diminished potency was associated with less iodination of the hormone; a marked reduction was noted with di-iodinated thyronine and no stimulatory activity at all with either mono- or non-iodinated thyronine.
Protein synthesis in perfused rat liver following thyroidectomy and hormone treatment.	Rat livers perfused in situ were used to investigate the effects of thyroid hormone deficiency and subsequent hormone replacement on hepatic protein synthesis and secretion. Following surgical thyroidectomy, production of albumin and total secretory proteins was reduced by 50%, whereas the synthesis of retained intracellular proteins was reduced by only 20% compared to the respective control rates. The 28% reduction in the synthesis of total liver proteins (secreted plus retained) was associated with a fall of similar magnitude in the tissue RNA level. Treatment of thyroidectomized rats with various doses of thyroid hormones indicated a regimen that restored the rate of synthesis of total liver proteins and the concentration of RNA to normal levels. This treatment regimen increased the synthesis of retained proteins to 115% of the control rate, but produced only modest increases in the production of albumin and total secretory proteins. These findings indicated an impairment in protein secretion in livers of thyroidectomized rats that persisted after the defect in protein synthesis was corrected by thyroid hormone treatment.
The effect of l-thyroxine on the metamorphosis of Ascidia malaca.	Larvae of Ascidia malaca, both before and after hatching, were treated with L-thyroxine solutions. The effect of the thyroid hormone was to induce the onset of metamorphosis and then to cause the rate at which body reorganization occurred to increase. In treated larvae the resorption of the tail occurred only few hours after hatching, and a beating heart appeared form 10 to 15 h earlier than in the control larvae. These results are discussed in the context of a probable relationship between the occurrence of a hormonal metamorphic factor and the button cells of the trunk.
Changes induced by hypothyroidism in insulin secretion and in the properties of islet plasma membranes.	This work was aimed at elucidating the effect of thyroid function on the physiology and biochemistry of the islet-cell population within the endocrine pancreas. To this end, we performed a comparative study of the physiochemical properties of islet-cell membranes and of the dynamics of glucose-induced insulin secretion in isolated pancreatic islets prepared from euthyroid i.e. control (C), hypothyroid (H), and thyroxin-supplemented hypothyroid (HT) rats. H rats were obtained by injecting normal rats with 131iodine, while HT rats consisted of H rats treated with thyroxin (T4). Insulin secretion was studied in isolated islets perifused with 3.3 and 16.6 mM glucose. Physicochemical properties of the partially purified islet plasma membranes were assessed by measurements of fluorescence polarization with the fluorophore 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene (DPH) as a lipidic molecular probe. Insulin output during either the first or second phase of insulin secretion in H islets was significantly lower than in C islets. The slope of the curve in the second phase of insulin secretion was also lesser in H than in C islets, suggesting an additional defect in their velocity of hormone release. T4 administration of H rats reversed the decrease in insulin output to the range found in C islets but was incapable of correcting the defect in the hormone-secretion velocity. Several changes were found in the physicochemical properties of the membranes obtained from H islets as compared to C islets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of thyroidectomy, and thyroxine and alpha 2u-globulin replacement therapy on testicular steroidogenic and gametogenic activities in rats.	Adult male rats were thyroidectomized and killed after 22 days of treatment. Thyroidectomy lowered the weights of testes and accessory sex organs, decreased the activities of testicular delta 5-3 beta- and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (HSD), and diminished spermatogenesis, serum levels of testosterone and alpha 2u-globulin. Supplementation with thyroxine at a dose of 5 micrograms/100 g body weight per day for 21 days or supplementation with alpha 2u-globulin at a dose of 1.5 mg/rat per day for 21 days in thyroidectomized animals partially reversed the decrease in HSD activities and serum concentrations of testosterone and alpha 2u-globulin, while spermatogenesis was restored to normal. The weights of testes and accessory sex organs were also reinstated after supplementation with thyroxine or alpha 2u-globulin in thyroidectomized rats in comparison with thyroidectomized animals. It was concluded that alpha 2u-globulin may be an intermediary in the thyroid hormone control of testicular function.
Thymus morphology in NZB mice after multiple dosage with somatotropin.	Cortical matter increased in the thymus after ten-day dosage of Coombs-positive NZB mice with somatotropin and thyroxine; cortical matter predominated over medullar matter. Secondary lymphoid follicles disappeared and the number of mast and plasma cells decreased. With administration of the hormone, rosette-forming cells began to appear in the thymus.
Effects of hypothyroidism on RNA synthesis in the adult rat brain.	In this study we investigated the effects of hypothyroidism on adult brain RNA synthesis. Our data show that in the cerebral hemispheres of hypothyroid rats there is a decrease in microsomal RNA content and microsomal [3H]uridine incorporation. Sucrose gradient analysis revealed that these changes are mainly associated with free ribosomes and subunits and reflect changes in rRNA. The above changes are accompanied by a decrease in RNA polymerase I activity. All of the above mentioned changes returned to normal after thyroxine (T4) treatment. In contrast to RNA polymerase I, RNA polymerase II activity was not affected. However, electrophoretic analysis of the in vitro poly(A)+RNA translation products revealed that hypothyroidism affects a few mRNAs. These results indicate that thyroid hormones have a role in adult brain tissue metabolism.
Reciprocal effects of prolactin and thyroxine on the growth rate of rat pups from weaning to puberty.	Prolactin and thyroxine were added to the daily diet of rat pups from weaning to puberty (days 20--40). While prolactin significantly retarted the pups' growth, thyroxine stimulated growth and even compensated for the depression caused by prolactin. The significant retardation in the growth of the prolactin-treated pups around days 30--35 of age indicates that at that period they are extremely prolactin-dependent, thus confirming previous reports that exogenous prolactin inhibits its own endogenous secretion. On the other hand, the possible growth promotion caused by thyroxine is mild and does not initiate a feedback mechanism. This suggests that prolactin is indispensable for the normal development of the weaned, immature rat.
Influence of thyroxine on human granulosa cell steroidogenesis in vitro.	The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of thyroid hormone on estradiol and progesterone secretion of human granulosa cells maintained in vitro.
An in vivo analysis of transcriptional elements in the mouse alpha-myosin heavy chain gene promoter.	During development in the murine ventricle, there is a switch in myosin heavy chain gene (MyHC) transcription. The beta-MyHC is expressed in the ventricles during foetal development, but is shut down at or around birth, at which time alpha-MyHC transcription is activated. This antithetical switch is thought to be mediated by circulating levels of thyroid hormone (TH) and both low and high affinity thyroid response elements (TREs) have been identified in the proximal promoter region of the murine alpha-MyHC. Myosin gene expression in the atria is relatively unaffected by the TH status. Previously, we used site-directed mutagenesis of the promoter in a transgenic analysis to define those elements responsible for high levels of transcription in vivo. These analyses focused on the role(s) of two cis elements, TRE1 and TRE2 that are located at -129 to -149 and -102 to -120, respectively, on the alpha-MyHC promoter. Although the elements' ablation had differential effects on transgene expression, neither single mutation abolished transgene expression completely. Here, we show that mutating both elements results in a complete inactivation of the transgene in both ventricles and atria under euthyroid conditions. However, expression still can be detected in the hyperthyroid state, implying that, although the TRE1 and TRE2 elements are critical elements for high levels of alpha-MyHC transcription in vivo, other promoter sites can mediate at least some degree of transcriptional activation.
Influences of thyroxine on cell proliferation in the retina of the clawed frog at different ages.	The change in spatial pattern of retinal cell production that occurs after midlarvae stages in Xenopus is shown to occur because of a greater proliferative response to thyroxine in the ventral than in the dorsal margin of the retina. The asymmetry of retinal cell production is not caused by a dorsoventral difference in the duration of the mitotic cycle. It is concluded that the asymmetry is due to differences in the number of proliferative cells in different parts of the retinal margin.
Effect of thyroid hormone on the levels of erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase isozymes and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in rabbits.	Levels of rabbit erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase B and C isozymes were determined in experimental hyperthyroidism using a quantitative immunologic technique. Levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and protein binding iodine were simultaneously determined. Thyroxine and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine were administered to rabbits orally for 30 days. A significant decrease in carbonic anhydrase B type was observed after 30 days, although no significant change was observed in carbonic anhydrase C type. These findings suggest that the steady state level of carbonic anhydrase B type in red cells is affected by thyroid hormone more readily than that of carbonic anhydrase C type. The level of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increased markedly after 10 days of treatment, corresponding to the increase of protein binding iodine. The clinical or pathologic significances were discussed in relation to the changes in the levels of these isozymes and 2,3-diphosphglycerate in red cells.
L-thyroxine (T4) elevates the free amino acid pool of haemolymph plasma of tasar silkworm, Antheraea mylitta drury (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae).	Concentration of free amino acids (FAA) in the haemolymph plasma of male and female tasar silkworm, A. mylitta, during fifth larval instar were determined by amino acid analyzer after administration of vertebrate thyroxine (T4). Twenty FAA have been identified in haemolymph plasma in both sexes, out of which ten were found to be predominating. Treatment with anabolic doses of thyroxine (0.5 and 1.0 micrograms/g) were able to enhance the titre of all the individual FAA which has been also reflected in the total concentrations. A specific pattern of variations in plasma FAA recorded during 5th larval instar, was not altered by the administered thyroxine. Our results thus indicate that T4 has a controlling influence on the FAA profiles of silkworm as observed in other biochemical parameters of the insect.
The functional interrelationship of the ovaries and the thyroid]	The character of the estrous cycle was studied in mature rats with different variants of the experimental hypophyseal-thyroid imbalance. This state was caused by injecting rifathyroine--a synthetic analogue of thyroliberin, thyrotropin and L-thyroxin to rats having a stable 4-days estrous cycle. The above manipulations were made either in the morning hours of proestrus when a rapid growth of dominant follicles takes place in the ovary, or at the stage of diestrus when new ovarian follicles start growing. The effect of injecting rifathyroin nonspecifically stimulating the release of prolactin by the adenohypophysis was dependent on the stage of the estrous cycle in which the animal was when injecting the drug was started. If it was the proestrus, the duration and sequence of the estrous cycle phases was not changed. If injecting rifathyroin was started at diestrus, in 6 of 11 animals this stage was as long as the whole cycle period. An experimental elevation of the content of thyrotropin caused by a single injection resulted in a disturbance of the duration and sequence of phases of the estrous cycle in all the animals. If thyrotropin was injected within the first hours of proestrus, this phase became shorter and the ovulation did not take place. An injection of thyrotropin during diestrus prolonged the latter for the whole period of observations equal to the cycle duration. Injections of L-thyroxin failed to change the sequence and duration of the cycle phases practically in half of the experimental animals, independent of the phase when the injecting was started. In 6 of 11 rats given the first injection of L-thyroxin at the stage of proestrus the anestrus and a prolonged phase of diestrus (during the whole cycle) were observed afterwards.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An electron microscopic study of thyroxine against ototoxicity of kanamycin]	Forty-five guinea pigs were randomly divided into 2 groups: 15 in the control group and 30 in the experimental group. All animals were injected immediately with 400 mg/kg kanamycin for 10 days. At the same time, the experimental animals were given orally 10 mg/kg thyroxin every other day 5 times. All animals were decapitated 10 days after administration of drugs and measurement of ABR. Then, the specimens of cochlea were prepared for both SEM and TEM. The result of SEM showed that the degeneration and loss of stereocilium in each turn was significantly milder in the experimental group than in the control. Under TEM, outer and inner hair cells showed changes caused by kanamycin. In the experimental group, the mitochondrias were basically normal. The secondary lysosomes gathered under cuticular plate and supranuclear area. In the control group, the mitochondria showed pyknosis and high density, and multivesicular bodies were increased. The cytoplasm was swelling. There were many vacuoles produced by accumulation of liquid in the cytoplasm. Based on the findings of ultrastructural changes of cochlear hair cells, the mechanism of thyroxine against ototoxicity of kanamycin was discussed.
Alterations in the thalamic reticular nucleus of rats neonatally treated with thyroxine.	Golgi-Cox impregnated loci of the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) of normal and neonatally T4-treated Wistar strain rats at 12, 20 and 30 days of age were analyzed. In a total of 120 TRN camera lucida drawings. The number of visible neurons, the area and the maximal transverse TRN length were quantitated. T4-treated rats showed a significant increase in the number of neurons at 12 days of age, followed by significant reductions of this parameter at 20 and 30 days old. By contrast the area of TRN hyperthyroid rats showed significant reductions on days 20 and 30 postnatally, and the maximal transverse length of the same group of rats showed a consistent significant reduction only at 30 days postpartum. The data are partly in line with previous studies showing an initial accelerated brain maturation, followed by a subsequent neuronal retardation, although the area and the maximal transverse TRN length measurements did not exhibit this sequence of development. The findings suggest that neonatal T4-treatment may interfere with the TRN morphological organization, and the modulatory actions upon the thalamic sensory transmission.
Interrelationship between thyroxine and estradiol on the secretion of thyrotropin-releasing hormone and dopamine into hypophysial portal blood in ovariectomized-thyroidectomized rats.	Effects of thyroxine (T4) on the secretion of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and catecholamines into hypophysial portal blood and on the concentrations of arterial plasma thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and prolactin (PRL) in ovariectomized and thyroidectomized (Ovx-Tx) rats were studied. Immediately after ovariectomy, rats were Tx or sham Tx. The Ovx-Tx rats were injected subcutaneously with estradiol benzoate (EB, 0.5 microgram/kg b.w.) or sesame oil, and T4 (20 micrograms/kg b.w.) or saline once daily for 2 weeks. The Ovx rats with intact thyroid gland were injected with saline and oil only. The hypophysial portal blood samples were collected and mixed with or without 2,3-dimercaptopropanol before extraction by methanol or perchloric acid, respectively. The femoral arterial blood was also collected. The concentrations of TRH in methanol-extracted portal plasma and that of TSH and PRL in arterial plasma were measured by radioimmunoassay. The concentrations of catecholamines in perchloric acid-extracted portal plasma samples were measured by radioenzymatic assay. Thyroidectomy in Ovx rats resulted in an increase in portal plasma TRH and arterial plasma TSH. Despite the presence or absence of estradiol, T4 replacement in Ovx-Tx rats decreased portal plasma TRH and arterial plasma TSH to euthyroid levels. Combination of the injection of T4 and EB in vivo caused significantly decreased levels of portal plasma dopamine and increased arterial plasma PRL compared with those in vehicle-injected Ovx-Tx animals. Concentrations of neither norepinephrine nor epinephrine in hypophysial portal plasma paralleled the altered concentrations of PRL or TSH in arterial plasma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Role of thyroid hormone in controlling the concentration of luteinizing hormone/human chorionic gonadotropin receptors in rat ovaries.	Little is known about the mechanism by which thyroid hormones influence ovarian function, especially in gonadotropin receptor formation. In this study the concentration of luteinizing hormone (LH)/human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) receptors in the ovaries of hypo- and hyperthyroid rats was estimated. Rats were made experimentally hypothyroid by thyroidectomy (N = 10) and hyperthyroid by injections of 40 micrograms of L-thyroxine daily for 21 days (N = 14). After 3 weeks the ovaries were excised, weighed, immersed in liquid nitrogen and then, after 24 h of incubation with 125I-labeled hCG (CR-121), the concentration of receptors (cpm) for one ovary and 1 mg of tissue was counted in their respective homogenates. The ovaries of the hyperthyroid group were diminished in size and consequently the level of receptors per ovary also was reduced when compared with control animals. The number of receptors per ovary and per milligram of tissue of hypothyroid rats was three times higher than in the control. In hyperthyroid animals a significant decrease in these values was noted when compared with hypothyroid rats, especially in the calculation of receptor concentration per ovary. It may be concluded that thyroid function may affect the size of the gland and also the number of LH/hCG-binding sites in rat ovaries. These data may be useful for interpretation of the pathophysiology of polycystic ovary syndrome in women and animals.
Regulation of fetal muscle development by thyroxine.	We have demonstrated that fetal hypophysectomy (hypox) induces deficiencies in skin and adipose tissue development and that chronic thyroxine (T4) treatment either normalizes or enhances skin and adipose tissue development in hypox fetuses. Since hypox also induces deficiencies in muscle development we report herein results of a histochemical and biochemical analysis of muscle development conducted in studies of T4-treated hypox fetuses. Pig fetuses were hypophysectomized on day 70 of gestation and treated with T4 during two periods, i.e. 70-90 days and 90-105 days gestational age, by implanting slow-release T4 (15 mg) pellets in the lateral musculature of the hind limb. Blood, muscle and other tissue samples were obtained upon removal of fetuses at days 90 and 105 of gestation. Weights of hypox, control and T4-treated hypox fetuses were similar at the end of the early period (70-90 days) whereas T4 significantly depressed body weight (p < 0.05) during the later period (90-105 days). Muscle weights, protein, DNA and RNA concentrations and muscle fiber size were not influenced by hypox or T4 treatment. Hypox-induced deficiencies in muscle capillary-to-fiber ratios, percentage of dry matter and general morphology were normalized by T4 (p < 0.05) during both treatment periods. Lipid deposition (staining) and histochemical reactivity for an oxidative marker (NADH-TR) were enhanced (p < 0.05) by T4 during both treatment periods as revealed by computer-assisted image analysis. Histochemistry for myofibrillar (acid) ATPase showed that the hypox-impaired type II to type I fiber type conversion was not influenced by T4 treatment. Muscle developmental traits enhanced or normalized by T4 were directly or indirectly related to lipid and/or oxidative metabolism. Effects of T4 on muscle and other tissues indicate, therefore, that thyroid hormones may be key regulators of oxidative and/or lipid metabolism in the neonatal animal.
The effect of 17 beta-estradiol treatment on the mass and the turnover of bone in ovariectomized rats taking a mild dose of thyroxin.	We performed the dosing experiment to establish whether estrogen administration has any beneficial effects on the mass and the turnover of bone in ovariectomized rats taking a mild dose of thyroxin. Thirty-five Wistar rats, 28 weeks of age, received ovariectomies (OVX) or sham operations and were divided into five groups. Group 1 was the sham group, Groups 2-5 were ovariectomized. Group 2 was the OVX-control, Group 3 treated with thyroxin 30 micrograms/kg/day (T4), Group 4, 17 beta-estradiol 0.3 mg/kg/week (E2), and Group 5, the combination of T4 and E2. The duration of the experiment was 12 weeks. At the end of the experiment, serum chemistries were measured. Bone minerals in the femur were determined with single photon absorptiometry and bone turnover was assessed histomorphometrically. Alkaline-phosphatase increased in Group 3 (OVX-T4), but it reduced in Groups 4 (OVX-E2) and 5 (OVX-T4 + E2). Bone minerals decreased in Groups 2 (OVX) and 3. In Group 4, it was preserved at the same level as in Group 1. Group 5 showed a significant increase of bone mass compared with Group 1. Eroded surface and osteoid surface increased in Groups 2 and 3 and they were reduced in Groups 4 and 5. Bone volume and mineral apposition rate were at a maximum in Group 5. This study demonstrated that 17 beta-estradiol was capable of preventing the bone mass decrease by regulating the turnover in ovariectomized rats taking a mild dose of thyroxin. Osteoblast function appeared to be stimulated in combination with 17 beta-estradiol and thyroxin.
The lung contents of endothelin are altered by thyroid hormone status in rat.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a 21-residue peptide isolated from the conditioned medium of cultured porcine endothelial cells and is widely distributed throughout the body, with relatively high levels in the kidney and lung. Animal studies have revealed that the lung appears to have the largest capacity for ET-1 removal from the blood stream. In this study we have examined the possible influence of thyroid status on immunoreactive endothelin (IR-ET) levels in the plasma and lung of the male rats. 3 weeks after the surgical removal of the thyroid gland from male rats, the IR-ET levels in the lung were reduced by 39%. Similarly, IR-ET levels were decreased 46% in the lung of rats rendered hypothyroid by treatment with 0.1% (w/w) PTU in the drinking water for 30 days, and replacement with daily L-thyroxine (T4) injections (5 micrograms/100 g) prevented this decrease. However, thyrotoxicosis induced by daily L-T4 injections (10 micrograms/100 g) also caused a decrease of the lung IR-ET levels by 49%. Nevertheless, the plasma IR-ET levels are similar in each group. Fast protein liquid chromatography study verified the presence of ET-1 immunoreactivity in both rat plasma and lung tissue extracts. This study demonstrates that euthyroid status is required for the maintenance of physiological concentrations of IR-ET in the lung of male rats.
Growth hormone-releasing activity of growth hormone-releasing peptide-1 (a synthetic heptapeptide) in children and adolescents.	The heptapeptide growth hormone-releasing peptide-1 (GHRP-1), one of a series of recently synthesized small growth hormone (GH)-releasing peptides, was administered as an iv bolus (1 microgram/kg) to 15 (six prepubertal, nine pubertal) short but healthy children and adolescents and to eight juvenile patients with pituitary insufficiency (four with isolated growth hormone deficiency, two with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies, one with partial GH deficiency and one with GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) deficiency). Eleven out of 23 subjects also underwent an in GHRH (1-29) test (1 microgram/kg). All the healthy children responded with a progressive rise in plasma human GH (hGH) peaking at 15-30 min, with a significantly higher rise (p < 0.05) in the pubertal than prepubertal group. The hGH response to GHRH (1-29) in these children was similar or slightly higher. Six hypopituitary patients had no response to either GHRP-1 or GHRH; the patient with partial GH deficiency had a hGH peak of 6.5 micrograms/l (at 5 min) to GHRP-1 and 9.2 micrograms/l (at 15 min) to GHRH. One patient had no response of hGH to hypoglycemia, clonidine and GHRP-1, but the plasma hGH rose to 10 micrograms/l after GHRH. Following the GHRP-1 bolus there was a significant (p < 0.01) rise in plasma free thyroxine and a decrease of thyrotropin (p < 0.01), both in the limits of normal values. There was also a transitory rise of plasma cortisol (p < 0.05). Plasma prolactin, luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone did not change.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thyroxine effects on temperature dependence of ionic currents in single rabbit cardiac myocytes.	Macroscopic whole cell currents were measured from single rabbit cardiac myocytes, using the suction electrode voltage-clamp technique, under euthyroid, hyperthyroid, and hypothyroid conditions. In ventricular myocytes, the temperature dependence of the transient outward current (I(t)) was greatly reduced in hyperthyroid conditions, with Q10 values (between 22 and 32 degrees C) reduced from normal values of 6.14 +/- 0.93 (SE, n = 8) to 2.14 +/- 0.14 (n = 6). In contrast, two of the other major currents in these cells were relatively unaffected. Under hyperthyroid conditions, there was very little change in the amplitudes or temperature dependence of L-type calcium currents and of steady-state currents, which reflect mainly the inwardly rectifying potassium current. In atrial cells no changes in the temperature dependence of I(t) were observed, with virtually identical Q10 values (close to 4) in eu- and hyperthyroid conditions. Under hypothyroid conditions, there was no change in the temperature dependence of I(t) in either ventricular or atrial cells. We conclude that the regulation of I(t) in ventricular cells is unique, rendering it extremely sensitive to temperature changes and to elevations in thyroxine levels. These results are discussed in the context of long-term regulation of ionic channels.
Effect of L-thyroxine and carbimazole on brain biogenic amines and amino acids in rats.	Effect of L-thyroxine and carbimazole on brain biogenic amines and amino acids content and circulating levels of thyroid hormones has been investigated in rats. L-thyroxine treatment caused marked elevation of 5-HT, histamine and glutamate along with the decline in the level of GABA whereas administration of carbimazole had a contrary effect on rat hypothalamus. Further, L-thyroxine administration also raised histamine as well as glutamate content and decreased GABA level in thalamic region of the rat brain but carbimazole treatment reduced 5-HT and glutamate content in this area of the rat brain. Similarly, cortical content of 5-HT and histamine also increased following L-thyroxine administration whereas carbimazole treatment lowered 5-HT, histamine and glutamate levels. Simultaneously, there was a considerable rise in the circulating levels of T3 and T4 in L-thyroxine-treated rats and a marked reduction in their levels in carbimazole-treated rats. There is a positive correlation between these amines and the thyroid hormone level. Thus, the results suggest that L-thyroxine and carbimazole administration cause marked alteration in biogenic amines and amino acids in rat brain, which may have an important role in the functioning of thyroid gland.
The influence of thyroid hormones on the growth of the lungs in perinatal rats.	The growth and rates of protein turnover in the perinatal lung have been studied in the rat during normal development between late gestation and weaning, and after altering their thyroid status. The aim was to establish what influence thyroid hormones have on the early stages of growth in the lungs. Perinatal hypothyroidism was induced by administering propylthiouracil (PTU) via the mothers' drinking water from late gestation and throughout lactation. A precocious and elevated surge of thyroid hormones was induced by daily injections of T4 from day 3 postpartum onwards. Hypothyroidism in the neonate, but not the fetus, significantly retarded the growth of the animal and its lungs. This was attributable to a decrease in both the pulmonary rates of protein synthesis and protein degradation; the effect on the former rate exceeding that on the latter. Neonatal hyperthyroidism did not significantly alter protein turnover or the growth of the lungs, compared with euthyroid control tissues. This contrasts with the accelerated growth of some other body tissues in the presence of excess thyroid hormones.
Immunocytochemical effects of thyroxine stimulation on the adenohypophysis of dwarf (dw) mutant mice.	The effects of dietary thyroxine on the immunoreactivity of cells in the pars distalis of the adenohypophysis in dwarf (dw/dw) mice were determined by ultrastructural immunocytochemistry. In nontreated dwarfs only adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) cells and luteinizing hormone (LH) cells showed positive reactions to their respective antibodies, whereas no cells showed immunoreactivity to antibodies to growth hormone (GH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), or prolactin (Prl). In dwarfs supplemented postnatally with dietary thyroxine for 9 wks, the treatment failed to produce immunoreactive GH, TSH or Prl cells. However, LH cells became more prominent and fully developed, with denser concentrations of immunoreactive particles overlying the secretory granules than occurred in nontreated dwarfs. In thyroxine-treated dwarfs, ACTH cells were similar in ultrastructural features and immunoreactivity to those in nontreated dwarfs.
Thyroid hormones increase insulin-like growth factor I content in the medium of rat bone tissue.	The mechanism of action of thyroid hormones on bone is still not clear. At low concentrations, they stimulate bone formation; at high concentrations, they elicit bone resorption in vitro and in vivo. In the present study we investigated the effect of T3 and T4 as well as their active and inactive analogs (TRIAC, SKF L-94901, rT3, and DIT) on the IGF-I and TNF-alpha content in the medium of UMR-106 rat osteoblastic cells and fetal rat limb bones. In the dose-response studies, a biphasic increase in medium IGF-I was observed in both cells and limb bones, with peak stimulatory concentrations of 10(-8) M for T3 and 10(-7) M for T4 in both systems. At higher concentrations, at which thyroid hormones elicit bone resorption, the stimulatory effect diminished and finally was no longer detectable. The active analogs TRIAC and SKF L-94901 also enhanced IGF-I release in UMR-106 cells. The inactive compounds rT3 and DIT failed to increase IGF-I in these cultures. The protein content of the cell culture wells exposed to high concentrations of thyroid hormones was similar to those containing low concentrations, indicating that the decrease in IGF-I content at high doses was not due to toxic effects. This was also confirmed by trypan blue exclusion. Time course studies with UMR-106 cells revealed a significant increase in medium IGF-I after 2 days of incubation. No significant further increase was observed after this up to 5 days of culture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Stimulation of placental, fetal and neonatal growth by thyroxine administration to pregnant rats.	The effects of daily thyroxine (T4) administration to pregnant rats on the growth of their fetuses and placentae were examined. Additional trials examined the effect of such treatment on the postnatal growth of the offspring. Injection of 10 micrograms T4 into the mother caused a tenfold elevation in maternal plasma T4 concentration, which remained elevated for more than 12 h, but returned to basal levels by 24 h after injection. Despite the increase in maternal T4 concentrations, no increase in fetal plasma T4 was found. A greater weight of both the fetuses (20.1%; P < 0.001) and placentae (14.6%; P < 0.05) was found in the young of T4-treated mothers compared with those from control mothers at delivery by hysterotomy on day 20 of gestation. In trials where mothers delivered naturally, birth weights of the young from mothers treated with T4 (10, 20 or 50 micrograms daily) were also significantly heavier than controls, and continued to grow faster postnatally. These data suggest that maternal thyroid hormone status is important for fetal growth, and further indicate that stimulation of the thyroid hormone axis during pregnancy could provide a method for improving postnatal growth.
Precocious induction of secretory granules by hormones in convoluted tubules of mouse submandibular glands.	Precocious differentiation of convoluted tubules of the submandibular glands of mice was induced by daily injection of thyroxine, insulin, hydrocortisone and 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone from day 4 after birth. This treatment induced enlargement of the tubules and synthesis of secretory granules in the tubules. Treatment with 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone alone had no effect on enlargement of the tubules or synthesis of the granules. These findings suggest that, besides androgenic hormones, these three hormones are also involved in synthesis of granules in developing mice.
Pituitary-testicular function changes in hypo- and hyperthyroid male rats.	The influence of thyroid deficiency and the administration of thyroxine on pituitary-testicular function were studied in male albino rats from weaning age (22 days old) up to 82 days of age. The results showed that the hyperthyroid state induced by a daily injection of 2.5 or 5 microng L-thyroxine resulted in acceleration of growth, a comparative increase in size and number of spermatogenic and interstitial cells, an increase in the STH cells, particularly at the earlier age (42 days old), and in a decrease in the number and size of TSH cells. Gonadotrophic FSH and LH and prolactin cells exhibited an increase in their granular content. The hypothyroid state induced by thyroidectomy or thiourea feeding, at the levels of 0.1 and 0.2% resulted in the depression of growth rate, destructive changes of the spermatogenic and interstitial cells and also in the lumen of the seminiferous tubules. A decrease in the STH, gonadotrophic FSH and LH and prolactin cells and hypertrophy of TSH cells accompanied by degranulation were also observed.
Unsaturated fatty acyl-CoA inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in vitro.	1. The influence of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids and fatty acyl coenzyme A thioesters on cholesterol synthesis in vitro has been studied in a rat liver post-mitochondrial supernatant system. 100 micronM free fatty acids do not influence in vitro cholesterol synthesis. Various fatty acyl-CoA thioesters at 10--100 microntm inhibit [14C]acetate incorporation into digitonin-precipitable sterols, the more unsaturated derivatives causing the greatest inhibition. 10 micronM arachidonoyl-CoA inhibits [14C]acetate incorporation into sterols 17% and 50 micronM inhibits 55%. [14C]Acetyl-CoA incorporation into sterols is similarly inhibited but [14C]mevalonate incorporation is not inhibited. Thus, the inhibition may be on the rate-controlling step of cholesterol synthesis, the conversion of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl-CoA to mevalonate. Unsaturated fatty acyl-CoA thioesters may be important in regulating cholesterol synthesis. 2. Studies were undertaken to determine if the previously observed inhibition of cholesterol synthesis by thyroxine in vitro may relate to the thyroxine stimulation of fatty acid desaturation. 50 micronM thyroxine causes a preferential incorporation of [14C]acetate into unsaturated fatty acids while inhibiting acetate incorporation into sterols. However, a sufficient increase in unsaturated fatty acyl-CoA thioesters to account for the thyroxine inhibition of cholesterol synthesis was not demonstrated.
Fiber counts of regenerating peripheral nerves in axolotls and the effect of metamorphosis.	Counts have been made of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers in the sixteenth nerve root of the axolotl, before, during and after regeneration following nerve section. There is no loss of myelinated fibers. Many collateral sprouts are formed and eventually withdrawn. Regeneration during metamorphosis is similar but there is more sprouting. There is no fiber loss from cut nerves in metamorphosis. This suggests that rising thyroid hormone levels are not in themselves detrimental to nerves without peripheral connections. Other factors that may govern cell loss in limb development are discussed.
Influence of stress and of endocrine imbalance on the experimental metastasis.	The influence of some stress agents applied during variable periods of time and under various modifications of the endocrine status was studied on the lymphotropic metastases of the 256 Walker carcinosarcoma, grafted intratesticulary in rats. Different reactivity of metastases, when compared to that of primary tumors was found in relation to the action of some compounds influencing the hormonal balance. Stress enhances the primary tumor development, while the metastatic growth is inhibited. However later on, sudden enhancement of the metastasis growth was observed. Adrenalectomy, as well as testosterone, thyroxine, of Stilbostat administration inhibit the metastasis, whereas cortisone, or antithyroid drug administration enhance the metastasis. The in vitro study of the tumor cell proliferation suggests some immunemorphological involvements in the development of this process.
Degradation and recycling of the substrate-binding subunit of type II iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase in astrocytes.	Thyroxine dynamically regulates levels of type II iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase (5'D-II) by modulating enzyme inactivation and targeting the enzyme to different pathways of internalization. 5'D-II is an approximately 200-kDa multimeric protein containing a 29-kDa substrate-binding subunit (p29) and an unknown number of other subunits. In the absence of thyroxine (T4), p29 is slowly endocytosed and transported to the lysosomes. T4 treatment rapidly activates an actin-mediated endocytotic pathway and targets the enzyme to the endosomes. In this study, we have characterized the influence of T4 on the intracellular trafficking of 5'D-II. We show that T4 accelerates the rate of 5'D-II inactivation by translocating the enzyme to the interior of the cell and by sequestering p29 in the endosomal pool without accelerating the rate of degradation of p29. This dichotomy between the rapid inactivation of catalytic activity and the much slower degradation of p29 is consistent with the reuse of p29 in the production of 5'D-II activity. Immunocytochemical analysis with a specific anti-p29 IgG shows that pulse affinity-labeled p29 reappears on the plasma membrane approximately 2 h after enzyme internalization in the presence of T4, indicating that p29 is recycled. Despite the ability of p29 to be recycled in the T4-treated cell, 5'D-II catalytic activity requires ongoing protein synthesis, presumably of another enzyme component(s) or an accessory enzyme-related protein. In the absence of T4, enzyme inactivation and p29 degradation are temporally linked, and pulse affinity-labeled p29 is internalized and sequestered in discrete intracellular pools. These data suggest that T4 regulates fundamental processes involved with the turnover of integral membrane proteins and participates in regulating the inter-relationships between the degradation, recycling, and synthetic pathways.
Acute effect of thyroid hormone in the rat heart: role of calcium.	Several observations provide some clues as to the possible mode of the regulatory action of thyroid hormone (TH) in the heart, indicating delayed action at the level of the nucleus and acute effects on the plasma membrane. Here we present evidence for a direct and rapid stimulatory effect of TH in the intact normal heart. In the isolated perfused rat heart, 3,5,3'-tri-iodothyronine (T3) produced a positive inotropic effect increasing both the left ventricular peak systolic pressure (P) and +dP/dt values, but had no significant effect on heart rate. This effect of T3 was: (1) very rapid in onset (starting after 15 s) and transient, increasing gradually to reach a maximum (80% above control) at about 20 min, and declining progressively 20 to 30 min later; (2) dose-related and biphasic, occurring at physiological concentrations as low as 1 pM (+dP/dt) and 10 pM (P), reaching a maximum at 1 nM, and decreasing at higher concentrations; and (3) thyroid hormone specific, as shown by the effects of several TH analogs (L-T3 > L-thyroxine (T4) = D-T3 > D-T4; 3,3',5'-tri-iodothyronine (rT3), 3,5,-L-di-iodothyronine and DL-thyronine had no effect). The calcium blockers nifedipine and verapamil, at concentrations of 10(-8) - 10(-5) M given before or after the addition of T3 (10(-9) - 10(-6) M), inhibited the T3-induced increase in cardiac inotropic activity in a time- and dose-related fashion. We suggest that the acute effect of TH in the heart is plasma membrane-mediated and calcium-dependent.
Cytochemical studies of adipose tissue-associated blood vessels in untreated and thyroxine-treated hypophysectomized pig fetuses.	Fetal hypophysectomy (hypox) slightly enhances lipid accretion in adipose tissue and markedly increases fat cell size and de novo lipogenesis. Thyroxine (T4) treatment (14 to 20 d) had no influence on fat cell size but markedly increased lipogenesis, lipid accretion, and apparent fat cell number in hypox fetuses. Although vascular development is intimately associated with preadipocyte development in the fetus, little is known concerning the regulation of vascular development per se by T4 and other adipogenic hormones. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the development of qualitative traits of the adipocyte-associated vasculature after fetal hypox with and without T4 treatment. Type IV collagen immunoreactivity of and lectin binding by capillaries in large fat cell clusters was reduced by hypox, and binding of the soybean agglutinin lectin was completely lost. Reactivity for cytosolic markers in capillaries was also reduced by fetal hypox. These blood vessel traits were not influenced by T4 treatment. The qualitative aspects of capillary development in large fat cell clusters were not influenced by hypox or T4 treatment. On a qualitative basis, blood vessels in the skin and in small fat cell clusters were not affected by hypox. Lectin binding by adipocytes was enhanced by hypox regardless of the size of clusters, and T4 augmented this response to hypox. These studies demonstrate that endocrine regulation of the differentiation of the adipocyte-associated vasculature is more complex than the endocrine regulation of adipocyte differentiation per se.
Thyroid hormones and [14C] glucose metabolism in bacteria.	The effects of triiodothyronine and thyroxine on metabolism and growth of bacteria were studied. It was observed that over a certain range of concentration thyroxine and triiodothyronine produced increase in 14CO2 release from [14C]-labeled glucose and also stimulated bacteria growth.
The expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 during adipogenesis in vivo: effect of thyroxine.	The expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) was examined in subcutaneous (SQ) adipose tissue from 105-day pig fetuses by ribonuclease protection assays and in situ hybridization using a porcine IGF-1 riboprobe. Fetuses were hypophysectomized (hypox) at 70 days of gestation and at 90 days thyroxine (T4) pellets were implanted into some of the hypox fetuses. Fetuses were removed and SQ tissues collected on day 105 of gestation. RNase protection assays followed by scanning laser densitometry revealed that IGF-1 mRNA in SQ adipose tissue in hypox fetuses was significantly decreased to 19.8 +/- 1.2% of control values. T4 treatment increased the expression of IGF-1 by 174 +/- 26.6% of values for hypox fetuses. Using in situ hybridization we showed that fetal hypophysectomy reduced and T4 treatment increased expression of IGF-1 mRNA in the outer SQ adipose tissue layer (P < 0.05). However, T4 treatment after hypox did not influence IGF-1 expression in the inner SQ layer (P > 0.05). IGF-1 was expressed around capillaries, in small fat cells, and in fibroblasts in loose and dense connective tissue. Large fat cells, however, did not express IGF-1. Collectively, we concluded that (1) IGF-1 mRNA was decreased after hypox and increased by T4 treatment in SQ tissue of 105-day fetuses; (2) The expression of the IGF-1 gene was more sensitive to T4 treatment after hypox in outer SQ tissue than in inner SQ tissue; (3) Most stromal cells produced IGF-1 mRNA, and as a result they may influence adipogenesis in the outer layer of SQ adipose tissue; and (4) Once fat cells enlarged, expression of IGF-1 was not detected. Therefore, these studies provide evidence that IGF-1 may mediate the influence of T4 on fetal adipogenesis.
Mechanism of hyperthyroidism-induced renal hypertrophy in rats.	It is well known that renal hypertrophy is induced by hyperthyroidism; however, the mechanism is not fully understood. We recently reported that cardiac hypertrophy in hyperthyroidism is mediated by enhanced cardiac expression of renin mRNA. The present study addresses the hypothesis that renal hypertrophy in hyperthyroidism is mediated by amplification of renal expression of renin mRNA. Twenty Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control (n=5) and hyperthyroid groups by daily intraperitoneal injections of saline vehicle or thyroxine. The hyperthyroid group was subdivided further into hyperthyroid-vehicle (n=5), hyperthyroid-losartan (n=5), and hyperthyroid-nicardipine (n=5) groups by daily intraperitoneal injections of saline vehicle, losartan, or nicardipine. All rats were killed at 4 weeks, and the blood and kidneys were collected. The kidney-to-body weight ratio increased in the hyperthyroid groups (+34%). Radioimmunoassays and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed increased renal renin (+91%) and angiotensin II (+65%) levels and enhanced renal renin mRNA expression (+113%) in the hyperthyroid groups. Losartan and nicardipine decreased systolic blood pressure to the same extent, but only losartan caused regression of thyroxine-induced renal hypertrophy. These results suggest that thyroid hormone activates the intrarenal renin-angiotensin system via enhancement of renal renin mRNA expression, which then leads to renal hypertrophy.
Adrenomedullin regulation by thyroid hormone in the rat.	To investigate the effect of thyroid hormone on adrenomedullin (AM) changes during hyper- and hypothyroid states, we evaluated plasma AM concentrations and AM mRNA levels in lung tissue from hyper- and hypothyroid rats. AM peptide concentrations were significantly higher in plasma from hyperthyroid rats and lower in plasma from hypothyroid rats compared with control rats. AM mRNA transcripts were significantly increased in lung tissue from hyperthyroid rats and significantly decreased in lung tissue from hypothyroid rats compared with normal rats. These changes are paralleled alterations in AM production in cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells, in which AM is regulated at the transcriptional level by thyroid hormone. Thus, thyroid hormone positively regulates AM production in vivo.
