Clinical significance of thyroid nodule calcification]	To confirm the predictive value of calcifications in thyroid nodules as a risk factor for malignancy and to detect specific aspects for tumours, in a set of 175 patients--30 papillary carcinoma (PC) and 145 multinodular goiters (MNG) with dominant nodule--calcifications were detected by ultrasound scan. Calcifications were significantly more frequent in PC than in MNG (40% vs 20.7% p < 0.05) but their considered characteristics (size, number, position, location in the gland, sonographic features of the nodule) did not show any particular difference between PC and MNG. The frequency of calcifications in our series was higher in older patients (mean age 58.7 +/- 13.3 vs 51.1 +/- 12.7 in patients without calcifications, p < 0.001) and this could imply that their onset is time-dependent. Calcifications can be a useful indicator of enhanced risk, to be considered in the overall process of surgical decision making.
Ultrasonographic evaluation of neck masses--sonographic patterns in differential diagnosis.	Ultrasound is a relatively inexpensive, widely available noninvasive method of investigation. Although there is extensive documentation on the use of ultrasound in abdominal lesions, it appears to have been underutilized in the evaluation of neck masses. Ultrasound enables detection of thyroidal and extrathyroidal masses, and definition of their boundaries and their relationship to great vessels. The traditional and exclusive use of ultrasound to separate cystic from solid lesions is outdated. High resolution new-generation real-time machines allow recognition of secondary changes in the structure of basically solid or cystic masses. Infected cystic masses may give the impression of a solid neoplasm. Although partial or total necrosis within a lymph node may simulate a branchial cleft cyst, ultrasonography can in many cases recognize such a "cystic-looking" malignant lymph node and thus prevent a premature biopsy that could transform an initially curable disease into an incurable one.
Conventional and Doppler ultrasound in thyroid disease diagnosis.	Ultrasonography is a useful tool for diagnosis diseases of the thyroid gland. The method is reliable, inexpensive and of high diagnostic efficiency. The structural information provided by the ultrasound technique complements the results of laboratory tests and other in-vivo techniques. The article reviews the indications, the accuracy and the usefulness of conventional and Doppler ultrasonography in the diagnosis of thyroid diseases. In our opinion ultrasound examinations should immediately follow the patient's history and physical examination. Additional in vivo methods should be performed according to the specified problems.
Sonographic imaging of the thyroid in children.	High-resolution sonographic imaging of thyroid disorders in paediatrics has become an extremely accurate method and is being more frequently used. The need for scintigraphy has therefore dramatically decreased. The anatomy and sonographic morphology of the thyroid gland (normal findings, variants) in infants and children are presented, as are patterns of thyroid disorders and respective algorithms of diagnostic imaging.
Quantitative assessment of shear-wave ultrasound elastography in thyroid nodules: diagnostic performance for predicting malignancy.	To evaluate the predictability of shear-wave ultrasound elastography (SWE) for thyroid malignancy and to compare the diagnostic performances of SWE and B-mode US.
Clinician-performed ultrasound in assessing potentially malignant thyroid nodules.	Ultrasound (US) is used in the workup of thyroid nodules. Ultrasonographic characteristics, such as an ill-defined margin, hypoechoicity or fine calcifications, are known to be associated with malignant thyroid lesions. The association between these characteristics and the risk of malignancy has been reported predominantly from series published where US is performed in radiology departments. Clinician-performed ultrasound (CPU) is increasingly being used as a modality, although there is little published literature validating this practice.
Usefulness of ultrasonography in the differential diagnosis of thyroidal follicular tumor]	To evaluate the usefulness of ultrasonography in distinguishing follicular carcinoma from adenoma.
Usefulness of different ultrasound features of malignancy in predicting the type of thyroid lesions: a meta-analysis of prospective studies.	Thyroid nodules are a common medical problem. Thyroid ultrasound remains the most common method for preliminary evaluation and selection of nodules for fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB). Doppler examination and elastography are believed to improve the reliability of ultrasound in predicting malignancy.
Ultrasonic diagnosis of cold thyroid nodules]	Ultrasonographic examination was carried out in 90 patients in whom single thyroid nodule was found by palpation and scintigraphic examination. In 67 of these patients (61%) the presence of a single nodule was confirmed by ultrasonography. In the remaining 23 (38%) multiple nodules were found within the gland. Ultrasonographic examination made possible the differentiation of solid lesions from the cystoid ones in 100%. Follicular adenomas appeared in ultrasonography as mixed-type nodules with the features of degeneration characterized by the presence of the areola (the so called "halo"). The Hurtle's adenomas appeared as mixed-type nodules, hypo-echogenic and devoid of areola. The observed neoplastic lesion (carcinoma follicular) was of a cystoid type. The appearance of cystoid lesions made possible the differentiation of simple cysts from those originating from tumor decomposition. Ultrasonography may then be helpful not only for distinguishing between cystoid-type and solid type lesions but also for classifying solid nodular structures as malignant or benign.
Role of ultrasound in the diagnosis of thyroid autonomy.	The role and the different technical modes of ultrasound in thyroid autonomy are discussed. B-mode sonography is routinely employed to e.g. calculate thyroid and nodule volume, describe the echo pattern of both the thyroid gland and focal lesions and to visualize neighboring organs such as lymph nodes. Sonography thus possesses a complementary role to scintigraphy, since it may further aid in the localization of toxic adenomas, in particular when they are dorsally located or it may change the therapeutic decision. An example for the latter would be the preference of a surgical approach in case of cystic degeneration of an autonomously functioning nodule. Recently, color-coded doppler sonography using color flow mapping has been employed. With the advent of this technique it has become possible to describe the pattern of vascularization in thyroid focal lesions such as rim perfusion or internal hypervascularization. This technique harbors a high sensitivity for toxic adenoma exhibiting high internal blood flow, but does not appear to reliably discriminate between benign and malignant lesions. Nevertheless, further improvement of this technique may be promising in further characterizing the functional status of sonographically detected lesions and in the prognostic assessment of post-treatment outcome.
