Effect of active and passive immunization with TRH on plasma TSH response to propylthiouracil.	The role of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in the secretion of TSH from the anterior pituitary was investigated in rats by active and passive immunization with TRH. The plasma TSH response to propylthiouracil (PTU) in TRH-bovine serum albumin (BSA)-immunized rats was significantly lower than that of BSA-immunized or non-immunized rats. Similarly, the increased plasma TSH level following PTU treatment was significantly suppressed after iv injection of antiserum to TRH. However, the decline in plasma TSH levels was not complete. The results of the present study indicate, at least in part, the physiological significance of endogenous TRH in the regulation of pituitary TSH secretion.
Properties of monoclonal antibodies to thyroliberin (TRH) induced by different immunogens: comparison with pituitary TRH receptor.	Thyroliberin E-H-P-NH2 (TRH) is a small neuropeptide pGlu-His-Pro-NH2 widely distributed in neural sites. The aim of this work was to obtain an antibody molecule with the nearest properties to that of TRH-receptor in GH3 cells. Different TRH-protein conjugates were prepared and utilized to induce monoclonal antibodies in mice. Several monoclonal antibodies were obtained using E-H-P-NH2 (TRH) coupled either to the histidyl residue (immunogen I) or to the prolyl residue (immunogen II). Antibodies generated using immunogen I and immunogen II were characterized in a radioimmunoassay system and an enzyme immunoassay system respectively. Their selectivities regarding a series of TRH related peptides were compared to those of rabbit polyclonal antibodies using three differently labelled TRH (tritiated-TRH, mono-iodinated-TRH and TRH-OH-acetyl-cholinesterase) as tracers and to prolactin secreting cells TRH receptors using 3H-TRH. Whatever the immunogen, the stereospecificity of monoclonal antibodies tested were found more different from TRH receptor characteristics than rabbit polyclonal antibodies.
Persistence of immunoreactive TRH and GnRH in long-term primary anterior pituitary cultures.	Intact anterior pituitary tissue and primary anterior pituitary cultures were stained with 1:30,000 anti-TRH and 1:10,000 anti-GnRH using the peroxidase antiperoxidase immunocytochemical technique. Stains applied to serial ultrathin sections of intact pituitaries showed that TRH immunoreactivity could be localized in secretory granules of thyrotropes, gonadotropes and corticotropes whereas GnRH immunoreactivity was found only in gonadotropes and corticotropes. Long-term primary pituitary cultures were studied to remove the anterior pituitary cells from hypothalamic influences. In these cell populations both TRH and GnRH immunoreactivity persisted. In addition, quantification of the stained cells at the light microscopic level demonstrated that the volume fraction of TRH and GnRH immunoreactive cells remained constant up to 3 weeks of culture. Studies of serial ultrathin sections through cells from these cultures showed TRH or GnRH localized in secretory granules of cells that contained LH and ACTH, but not TSH. Both liquid and solid phase immunoabsorption specificity controls were used to validate the immunocytochemical stains. These studies suggest that the pituitary TRH and GnRH immunoreactivities may not be completely of hypothalamic origin, but may also be endogenous to a subpopulation of unique multihormonal pituitary cells.
Effects of histamine and related compounds on the release of immunoreactive thyrotropin-releasing hormone from the rat stomach in vitro.	Effects of histamine and related compounds on the release of immunoreactive thyrotropin-releasing hormone (ir-TRH) from the rat stomach in vitro were studied. The rat stomach was incubated in medium 199 with 1.0 mg/ml of bacitracin and 100 micrograms/ml of ascorbic acid (pH 7.4) for 20 min. The amount of TRH release into the medium was measured by radioimmunoassay. The ir-TRH release from the rat stomach was enhanced significantly in a dose-related manner with the addition of histamine and inhibited with the addition of famotidine, but not with mepyramine. The stimulatory effect of histamine on ir-TRH release from the stomach was partially blocked with the addition of famotidine, but not with mepyramine. The elution profile of acid-methanol-extracted rat stomach on Sephadex G-10 was identical to that of synthetic TRH. These findings suggest that histamine stimulated ir-TRH release from the rat stomach in vitro, and that histamine's effects may be mediated via a H2-receptor.
Chemically defined neuron groups and their subpopulations in the glomerular layer of the rat main olfactory bulb.	Chemically-defined neuron groups and their subpopulations in the glomerular layer of the rat main olfactory bulb were revealed immunocytochemically using antibodies against gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), methionin-enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 (ENK), calretinin (CR), calbindin-D28K (calbindin) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). GABA-like immunoreactive (GABA-LIR) neurons and CR immunoreactive (CR-IR) neurons were most numerous; they were about 1.5-3 times more numerous than calbindin immunoreactive (calbindin-IR), TH immunoreactive (TH-IR), ENK-like immunoreactive (ENK-LIR) and THR-like immunoreactive (TRH-LIR) neurons. We identified at least three distinct chemically-defined neuron groups, GABA-LIR neurons, CR containing neurons and calbindin containing neurons, since these three neuron groups were almost separate from one another. On the other hand, TH-IR and ENK-LIR neurons were nearly included in and thus considered to be subpopulations of GABA-LIR and CR-IR neurons, respectively, for about 80% of these two neuron groups contained GABA-L and CR immunoreactivities, respectively. TRH-LIR neurons appeared to be divided into two subpopulations, one containing the GABA-L immunoreactivity and the other containing the CR immunoreactivity. Thus in the glomerular layer of the rat olfactory bulb, GABA-LIR, CR-IR and calbindin-IR cells could be considered to be three distinct chemically-defined neuron groups, whereas TH-IR, TRH-LIR and ENK-LIR neurons were regarded as their subpopulations. Furthermore, some neurons groups, whereas TH-IR, TRH-LIR and ENK-LIR neurons were regarded as their subpopulations. Furthermore, some neurons are supposed to contain three substances (e.g. GABA + TH + TRH, GABA + TRH + EnK, CR + TRH + ENK, GABA + TRH + CR) or a few might even contain four substances (e.g. GABA + TRH + CR + ENK). Preliminary quantitative analysis using the optical disector method showed percentages of these three main neuron groups to total cells in the glomerular layer; that is, neuron groups containing GABA, CR and calbindin were about 20%, 20% and 10%, respectively.
Novel methods for the preparation of antibody microprobes.	Antibody microprobes are devices which have been used to determine the release sites of several neuropeptides. The production of microprobes using the previous methodology is a time-consuming procedure requiring a high level of skill. The aim of the study was to investigate alternative methods for the production of microprobes which would simplify this procedure. Specific antibodies to thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) were bound to the outside of glass and tungsten wire microprobes using (a) an aminosilane coating, (b) a polycarbonate plastic coating and (c) an epoxylite resin-activated charcoal coating. Microprobes were assessed in vitro and in vivo for their ability to measure the neuropeptide TRH. All methods considerably reduced the time required to manufacture microprobes (more than 5-fold) and the aminosilane and epoxylite resin/charcoal-coated probes were suitable for use in vivo. The preferred binding coat was epoxylite/charcoal which has now been used to determine sites of TRH release in rat brain.
