MT1 melatonin receptor mRNA expressing cells in the pars tuberalis of the European hamster: effect of photoperiod.	Melatonin, secreted only during the night by the pineal gland, transduces the photoperiodic message to the organism. One important target for the hormone is the pars tuberalis (PT) of the adenohypophysis which displays a very high number of melatonin binding sites in mammals and is implicated in the seasonal regulation of prolactin secretion. To gain insight into the mechanism by which the melatonin signal is decoded in the PT, we studied the effect of photoperiod on the PT cells expressing the MT1 melatonin receptor in a highly photoperiodic species, the European hamster. Recently, we showed that, in the rat, the MT1 receptor mRNA is expressed in PT-specific cells characterized by their expression of beta-thyroid stimulating hormone (beta-TSH) along with the alpha-glycoprotein subunit (alpha-GSU). As the cellular composition of the PT shows variability among species, we first identified the cell type expressing the MT1 receptor in the European hamster by combining immunocytochemistry and nonradioactive in situ hybridization for the MT1 receptor mRNA. Our results show that, in the European hamster, as in the rat, the MT1 receptor is only expressed by the PT-specific-cells, beta-TSH and alpha-GSU positive. In a second step, we analysed the effects of photoperiod on the MT1 mRNA, and on beta-TSH and alpha-GSU both at the mRNA and protein levels. Our data show that, compared to long photoperiod, short photoperiod induces a dramatic decrease of MT1, beta-TSH and alpha-GSU expression. Protein levels of beta-TSH and alpha-GSU were also dramatically reduced in short photoperiod. Together, our data suggest that melatonin exerts its seasonal effects in the PT by signalling to PT specific-cells through the MT1 receptor subtype.
Central hypothyroidism.	A 15-mth-old male child of consanguineous parents, presented with classical features of congenital hypothyroidism. Serum total thyroxine (T4), total triiodothyronine (T3) and TSH were low. There was no evidence of deficiency of other pituitary hormones. Magnetic resonance imaging of the pituitary was normal. TSHB gene sequencing revealed a homozygous missense mutation due to single base substitution G?A at codon 85 resulting in change from Glycine to Arginine. This mutation in TSHB gene has been reported earlier in three cases with similar phenotype from Japan.
Food deprivation induces chronic stress and affects thyroid hormone metabolism in Senegalese sole (Solea senegalensis) post-larvae.	In vertebrates, stress and thyroid systems interact closely, most likely because of the involvement of both systems in energy metabolism. However, studies on these interactions, especially during larval development, are scarce. Recently, cDNAs coding for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and CRH-binding protein (CRH-BP), two key players in the regulation of the neuroendocrine stress response, were characterized for the flatfish Senegalese sole (Solea senegalensis). To investigate the involvement of stress and thyroid systems in this species, the effects of food deprivation during early development of S. senegalensis were assessed. Growth was arrested in food-deprived post-larvae, which was also reflected by decreased carbon and nitrogen contents, indicating increased catabolism. Food deprivation induces chronic stress, as illustrated by enhanced whole-body cortisol levels, as well as an up regulation of crh and a decrease of crh-bp expression levels. Furthermore, whole-body total T3 concentrations of food-deprived post-larvae were reduced, although tshβ subunit expression levels remained unaffected. Our results show that food deprivation is a chronic stressor that induces energy-releasing catabolic processes that compensate for the reduced energy intake, and inhibits anabolic processes via the peripheral thyroid system.
Use of TSHβ:EGFP transgenic zebrafish as a rapid in vivo model for assessing thyroid-disrupting chemicals.	Accumulating evidence indicates that a wide range of chemicals have the ability to interfere with the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis. Novel endpoints should be evaluated in addition to existing methods in order to effectively assess the effects of these chemicals on the HPT axis. Thyroid-stimulating hormone subunit β (TSHβ) plays central regulatory roles in the HPT system. We identified the regulatory region that determines the expression level of zebrafish TSHβ in the anterior pituitary. In the transgenic zebrafish with EGFP driven by the TSHβ promoter, the similar responsive patterns between the expression levels of TSHβ:EGFP and endogenous TSHβ mRNA in the pituitary are observed following treatments with goitrogen chemicals and exogenous thyroid hormones (THs). These results suggest that the TSHβ:EGFP transgenic reporter zebrafish may be a useful alternative in vivo model for the assessment of chemicals interfering with the HPT system.
