Regulation of thyroid hormone availability in liver and brain by glucocorticoids.	Glucocorticoids as well as thyroid hormones are essential for normal brain development. Exogenous glucocorticoids stimulate 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T(3)) availability in circulation of birds and similar effects have been observed in sheep. Chicken data indicate that glucocorticoid administration also stimulates thyroid hormone metabolism in brain but the effects on local thyroid hormone concentrations are not known. Therefore, the current study: (1) determined local thyroid hormone availability in separate brain areas of 18-day-old embryonic chickens (E18) after injection of dexamethasone (DEX), and (2) investigated the impact on the thyroid hormone metabolic pathways in these brain parts and compared the results with the hepatic situation. For this, E18 chicken embryos were treated with a single intravenous dose of DEX (25 microg). Despite the decreased 3,5,3',5-tetraiodothyronine (T(4)) availability in the liver of the DEX treated embryos, the T(3) content was strongly increased, parallel to the plasma T(3) surge. This T(3) surge was primarily related to a fall in hepatic T(3) breakdown through a downregulation of the type III deiodinase (D3). The sulfation pathway in liver seems not to be affected by DEX. In all brain parts, DEX affects the T(3) production capacity by upregulation of the type II deiodinase (D2). This enables the brain to compensate for the decrease in T(4) availability, although the T(3) concentrations are not consistently increased like in plasma and liver. This observation points to the existence of a fine-tuning mechanism in brain that enables the brain to keep the T(3) concentrations within narrow limits.
HPLC analysis of in vitro hepatic deiodination products of thyroid hormones in the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss.	Reverse-phase HPLC employing five different solvent systems was used to determine the 125I-labeled products formed in rainbow trout by in vitro incubation at 12 degrees of the hepatic microsome fraction with L-thyroxine (T4) labeled with 125I in the outer phenyl ring. Trout were starved for 2 weeks or fed a 2% ration. The only labeled products identified during incubation for 7.5-70 min over a T4 substrate range of 0.03-0.5 nM were 125I- and 3,5,[125I]3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3). These products in combination with the parent [125I]T4 accounted for over 96% of the total chromatographic radioactivity. Neither 3,[125I]3'-diiodo-L-thyronine nor 3,[125I]3',5'-T3 (reverse T3) was detected, suggesting negligible inner-ring deiodination of T4 or T3. Essentially equal production of 125I- and [125I]T3 validated the use of 125I- production as a measure of [125I]T3 generation in assays for hepatic 5'-monodeiodinase activity. However, in some experiments the 125I- level slightly exceeded the [125I]T3 level, indicating that outer-ring deiodination of T3 may occur to a limited degree. In conclusion, the present data for liver support earlier observations from in vivo studies in showing that for trout at 12 degrees deiodination pathways are geared primarily toward T4 outer-ring monodeiodination to produce T3 with undetectable inner-ring deiodination of T3 or T4 and limited outer-ring deiodination of T3.
Kinetics of degradation of levothyroxine in aqueous solution and in solid state.	The kinetics of the deiodination of levothyroxine in aqueous solution were studied over the pH range 1 to 12. Temperature dependence of the reaction was also studied. The log k - pH profile indicated that the kinetics of deiodination include proton attack on the anion and dianion in acidic solution and water attack on the anion and dianion in alkaline solution. A possible mechanism of the deiodination was discussed. The solid-state stability of levothyroxine sodium was studied at elevated temperatures; and the compound was found to undergo deamination on heating. The decomposition follows biphasic first-order kinetics, with the most rapid decomposition occurring at the beginning of heating.
Active transport of iodothyronines into human cultured fibroblasts.	Thyroid hormone uptake into human cultured fibroblasts was studied using 2-min incubations with labeled iodothyronines. The results indicate the presence of an active T4 uptake process with two saturable sites with apparent Km values of 1.9 and 141 nM, respectively, and an active T3 uptake process with two saturable sites with Km values of 29 and 650 nM. The uptake of both hormones was energy dependent, i.e. inhibited by KCN or by incubation of the cells in the absence of glucose. By analogy with similar findings in rat hepatocytes we postulate that the high affinity systems represent active transport of thyroid hormone into the cell. Preincubation of the cells with 2 mM ouabain resulted in a decrease in the uptake of both T3 and T4, suggesting that a sodium gradient is necessary for transport. Similar to that in rat hepatocytes, uptake of T3 was inhibited by high concentrations of T4, and uptake of T4 was inhibited by high concentrations of T3. These data indicate that regulation of thyroid hormone uptake at the level of the plasma membrane may be operative in humans.
Role of sodium in thyroid hormone uptake by rat skeletal muscle.	Whether Na+ movement through the plasma membrane plays a role in thyroid hormone uptake was investigated in intact rat soleus muscles. After preincubation for 120 min at 37 degrees C in modified Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate containing 140 or 5 mM Na+ plus choline or lithium to maintain osmolarity, muscles were incubated with 50 pM [125I]triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) or [125I]L-thyroxine (T4) for 60 min. T3 uptake was decreased when extracellular Na+ was replaced by either choline or lithium, the amount of decrease corresponding to the specific (or saturable) uptake component. Monensin, an ionophore that stimulates Na+ entry, increased T3 uptake at 140 mM Na+ but not at 5 mM Na+. Amiloride, a Na+/H+ exchange inhibitor, had no effect on T3 uptake under basal conditions or when Na+ was replaced by choline, but reversed the action of lithium. Ouabain, an inhibitor of Na+/K+ ATPase, reduced specific T3 uptake. T4 uptake was unaffected by low extracellular Na+. These results are consistent with a major role of Na+ movement in T3 uptake by skeletal muscle, but not in T4 uptake, and suggest an involvement of membrane pumps in this process.
Three-compartmental analysis of effects of D-propranolol on thyroid hormone kinetics.	Tracer thyroxine (T4), 3.3',5-triiodothyronine (T3), and 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (rT3) kinetic studies were performed in normal T4 substituted subjects before and during oral D-propranolol treatment to determine whether changes in thyroid hormone metabolism in a propranolol-induced low-T3 syndrome result from inhibition of 5'-deiodination or inhibition of transport of iodothyronines into tissues. Data were analyzed according to a three-compartmental model of distribution and metabolism. T4 plasma appearance rate decreased by 16% (P less than 0.01), reflecting a decreased intestinal absorption of orally administered T4 during propranolol. Serum T4 and free T4 levels increased significantly by 14%, whereas T4 metabolic clearance rate (MCR) was lowered by 26% (P less than 0.001). No changes were observed in size of the three T4 compartments or in fractional and mass transfer rates of T4 from plasma to the rapidly (REP) and slowly (SEP) equilibrating pools. Serum T3, free T3, T3 plasma pool, T3 mass transfer rate to REP and SEP, and the T3 pool masses were all significantly decreased during propranolol to a similar extent as the T3 plasma production rate (PR). T3 MCR decreased by 14% (P less than 0.05). Serum total and free rT3 increased, whereas the rT3 MCR was substantially lowered during propranolol (P less than 0.001). The rT3 plasma pool, rT3 REP and SEP, and the mass transfer rates to REP and SEP increased, whereas no alterations were observed in rT3 PR and fractional transfer rates of rT3 to REP and SEP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of thyroxine in vitro on the transmembrane potential of rat liver mitochondria]	It has been shown in in vitro experiments that a certain latent period after the addition of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) was necessary for the manifestation of their effects on transmembrane potential (TMP) of the rat liver mitochondria. The duration of the lag-period decreased upon an increase in the concentrations of these hormones, and T4 at a dose of 2.10(-4) M produced a fall in TMP immediately after its addition. The rate of TMP fall was in proportion with the concentrations of thyroid hormones introduced into the cell, with T3 30-40% more effective than T4. It was established that the action of I2 resembled that of thyroid hormones, namely, a fall in TMP, mitochondrial swelling, activation of transhydrogenase Kl was ineffective. It is suggested that the appearance of the lag-period upon the action of thyroid hormones might be explained by the period of time necessary for the formation of the active iodine forms, as well as by the formation of fatty acids (donators of H+) by mitochondrial phospholipases. All these factors lead to TMP fall resulting in decreased formation of sufficient ATP quantities in mitochondria.
L-thyroxine malabsorption due to the injection of herbal remedies.	Two patients are described in whom the absorption of l-thyroxine was impaired by non-prescription herbal and nutritional remedies. The absorption of thyroid hormones is discussed and an approach to the problem of patients who appear to be unresponsive to the usual doses of thyroid hormones is suggested.
Characterization of the thyroid hormone transport system of cerebrocortical rat neurons in primary culture.	The uptake of 3',3,5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) and L-thyroxine (T4) by primary cultures derived from rat brain hemispheres was studied under initial velocity conditions, at 25 degrees C. Uptake of both hormones was carrier mediated and obeyed simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The Km of T3 uptake was very similar to that of T4, and did not vary significantly from day 1 to 4 in culture (310-400 nM). The maximal velocity (Vmax) of T3 uptake nearly doubled between day 1 and 4 of culture (41 +/- 3 vs. 70 +/- 5 pmol/min/mg of DNA, respectively). The Vmax of T4 uptake did not change (28 +/- 8 and 31 +/- 4 pmol/min/mg of DNA on days 1 and 4, respectively). The rank order of unlabeled thyroid hormone analogues to compete with labeled T3 or T4 uptakes were the same (T3 > T4 > 3',5',3-triodo-L-thyronine > 3',3,5-triiodo-D-thyronine > triiodothyroacetic acid), indicating that the transport system is stereospecific. Unlabeled T4 was a stronger competitor of labeled T4 uptake than of labeled T3 uptake, whereas unlabeled T3 had the same potency for both processes. These results suggest that T3 and T4 are transported either by two distinct carriers or by the same carrier bearing separate binding sites for each hormone. They also indicate that the efficiency of T3 uptake increases during neuronal maturation.
Thyroxine and triiodothyronine uptake by the brain of chickens.	The instant uptake of 125-I-labelled triiodothyronine and 125-I-thyroxine by the brain tissue was measured in sham-operated (SH) controls, thyroidectomized (TX) and thyroidectomized plus iodothyronine supplemented (TX+T3 or TX+T4) young chickens. It was found that thyroidectomy significantly increases the uptake of iodothyronines, and iodothyronine supplementation returns the uptake close to sham-operated levels. The characteristics of the inhibition of the uptake of labelled hormones by non-labelled iodothyronines speak in favour of the presence of specific, separate uptake sites for T3 and T4 in the blood-brain barrier of young chickens.
