Use of growth hormone and gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist in addition to L-thyroxine to attain normal adult height in two patients with severe Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	We report two patients with severe acquired juvenile hypothyroidism who presented with compromised predicted adult height (PAH), and the successful use of growth hormone (GH) and gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRHa) in addition to L-thyroxine to attain normal adult height.
Effects of sex steroid analogs on spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis in obese strain chickens.	Treatment of obese strain chickens, either in ovo or after hatching, with testosterone or various testosterone-derived steroid analogs having no or only weak endocrine activities causes significant protection from spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis occurring in these birds. This effect is not correlated with the endocrinological properties of these steroids. This observation and similar results in other models for autoimmunity may present a basis for a more selective therapy in human autoimmune diseases in that hormonal side effects no longer preclude this approach.
Influence of thyroxine treatment on thyroid size and anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	It has been postulated that a decrease in thyroid size can be achieved by thyroxine treatment in patients with goitrous Hashimoto's thyroiditis but no objective data are available. We have therefore investigated the influence of thyroxine treatment on ultrasonically determined thyroid size. We also measured serum antithyroid peroxidase antibodies.
Hypothyroidism in children with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome.	Non-autoimmune hypothyroidism has been reported in children with congenital nephrotic syndrome. The hypothyroid state was attributed to massive prolonged thyroid hormone loss. However, this endocrine abnormality has not been reported in steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS) despite similar long-standing proteinuria.
Effects of selenium supplementation on the natural course of autoimmune thyroiditis: a short review.	Selenium (Se) is an important element that exerts its effects on the selenoproteins. It is an essential component of the glutathione peroxidase enzymes, which have anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and a component of iodothyronine selenodeiodinases, which catalyze the extrathyroid production of T3 from T4. Se is important to several aspects of thyroid homeostasis and may influence the natural course of thyroid diseases such as autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT). This review analyzes the effects of Se supplementation in patients with AIT, based on the studies published on this issue to date.
Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis: effects of high doses of antithyroid drugs on thyroid autoantibody levels.	We studied the effects of high doses of methimazole (MMI) or propylthiouracil (PTU) on thyroid-stimulating antibody (TSAb), antithyroid microsomal (MCHA) and antithyroglobulin (TGHA) levels in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Thirty Graves' hyperthyroid patients were treated for 14 +/- 8 months (mean +/- SD) with MMI, 60-80 mg daily or PTU, 900-1200 mg daily plus T3, 50-75 micrograms daily. Fifteen Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients (4 of whom hypothyroid) received 100-200 micrograms of T4 daily for 4-8 weeks prior to MMI, 60-90 mg daily or PTU, 900 mg daily for 12-16 weeks. In Graves' disease a decrease (p less than 0.001) in TSAb activity (20/25 patients) was observed: before therapy, 0.424 +/- 0.506 pmoles/mg wet wt and at the end of treatment, 0.189 +/- 0.23 pmoles/mg wet wt. The MCHA titers also fell (18/26 patients) from 1:10,403 +/- 20,197 to 1:3,476 +/- 5,252 (p less than 0.01) and was associated with a decrease in free T4 values (1.23 +/- 0.69 vs. 0.51 +/- 0.36 ng/dl; p less than 0.01). A fall of MCHA titers in T4-treated Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients (1:10,416 +/- 25,576) was found when compared with the value before T4 (1:25,920 +/- 39,973; p less than 0.001). However, the titers of MCHA (1:13,280 +/- 25,992) did not change on MMI or PTU plus T4 treatment. The TGHA titers fell in a single patient. No alterations were observed in serum immunoglobulins. Serum concentrations of the complement factor C'3 remained higher (p less than 0.01) than normal values in both Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Critical role of iodination for T cell recognition of thyroglobulin in experimental murine thyroid autoimmunity.	We have used two clonotypically distinct thyroglobulin (Tg)-specific, I-Ak restricted monoclonal T cell populations to investigate the role of thyroid peroxidase-catalyzed iodination in Tg recognition by autoreactive T cells. The results showed that these T cells could recognize Tg only it it was sufficiently iodinated. Unlike normal mouse Tg, noniodinated mouse Tg was unable to induce significant thyroid lesions but could trigger the production of Tg autoantibodies. In these experiments, the importance of T cell recognition of iodination-related epitopes was emphasized by the inability of serum antibodies to distinguish Tg on the basis of iodine content, whether they were induced with normal or noniodinated Tg. Therefore, thyroid peroxidase-dependent modification of Tg would appear to be central to its recognition by autoreactive T cells and hence its capacity to induce autoimmune thyroid lesions.
Autoimmune thyroiditis and myopathy. Reversibility of myopathic alterations under thyroxine therapy.	A female patient with Hashimoto's autoimmune thyroiditis and myopathic symptoms is reported. Besides a myopathic pattern, widespread spontaneous pathological activity was found in the affected musculature. Under thyroxin therapy, both the clinical picture and the electromyographic findings normalized completely within a few weeks.
Difference in pituitary-thyroid feedback regulation in hypothyroid patients, depending on the severity of hypothyroidism.	In an attempt to study pituitary-thyroid interplay during replacement therapy for hypothyroidism, T4 (75-150 micrograms/day) was administered for at least 3 months. A small dose of T4 (75 micrograms/day) significantly depressed basal and TRH-stimulated TSH levels in normal subjects without significantly elevating serum T4 and T3 concentrations. In patients with severe hypothyroidism and marked enlargement of the sella turcica, T4 (2.53 micrograms/kg BW) normalized the serum T4 and slightly elevated the serum T3 but failed to normalize basal and TRH-stimulated TSH levels. In patients with moderate hypothyroidism and moderate enlargement of the sella turcica, T4 (2.0 micrograms/kg BW) normalized serum T4, T3, and basal TSH concentrations but failed to normalize TRH-stimulated TSH levels. In patients with slight hypothyroidism and slight enlargement of the sella turcica, T4 (1.84 micrograms/kg BW) normalized serum T4, T3, and TSH (both basal and TRH stimulated) concentrations. In five patients, an apparent paradoxical increase of basal serum TSH level was found shortly after starting thyroid hormone treatment. It is suggested that pituitary-thyroid interplay during the first 3-6 months of replacement therapy for hypothyroidism varies greatly depending on the severity of hypothyroidism.
Characteristics and clinical correlates of a novel thyroid-stimulating autoantibody.	We reported a patient who gave birth to 3 children with transient neonatal hypothyroidism. She had 3 different antibodies (Ab) to the thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) in her serum, viz., TSH binding-inhibiting (TBIAb), thyroid-stimulating (TSAb) and an additional stimulating Ab (SAb). The SAb differed from TSAb in that its in vitro stimulating effect in human thyroid and FRTL5 cells was not inhibited by TBIAb [similar data now obtained with Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with cloned human TSHR]. Because of symptomatic goiter enlargement the patient underwent subtotal thyroidectomy. About 50% of the gland was infiltrated with lymphocytes; thyroid follicles had columnar epithelium, despite suppression of TSH by thyroxine and the presence of the potent TBIAb. Fifteen months later, when all 3 Ab showed a decline of approximately 3 fold, she gave birth to hypothyroid twins. These data support the following conclusions: 1) thyroidectomy and immunosuppression of pregnancy do not prevent neonatal thyroid disease if TSHR Ab (TRAb) are of high titer; 2) the thyroid is not a major site of TRAb production; 3) SAb is a thyroid stimulator, distinct from TSAb in that it does not share binding epitopes on the TSHR with either TSH or TBIAb; 4) SAb was the probable cause of thyroid growth in this patient.
Bone mineral density and metabolism in premenopausal women taking L-thyroxine replacement therapy.	Excess endogenous thyroxine causes bone loss, but the effects of exogenous thyroxine are disputed. We report on bone mass and metabolism in women taking L-thyroxine therapy.
Effects of thyroid status on thyroid autoimmunity expression in euthyroid and hypothyroid patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	In patients with hypothyroid goitrous Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the recovery from hypothyroidism seems to be due to a spontaneous decrease of antibodies (Ab) to the TSH-receptor (R). In contrast, in patients with Graves' disease made euthyroid by antithyroid drug therapy, the suppression of TSH secretion by thyroid hormone during antithyroid drug treatment decreases the production of Ab to TSH-R. We investigated in patients with initially euthyroid or hypothyroid goitrous Hashimoto's thyroiditis the relationships between thyroid status and the serum TSH-R, peroxidase (TPO) and thyroglobulin (Tg) Ab concentrations in untreated or L-thyroxine (T4) treated patients.
In vitro effects of cytokines and human thyroglobulin on the induction of antibody-secreting cells in patients with auto-immune thyroid disease.	We have investigated the in vitro effects of interleukin-1-beta (IL-1-beta), interleukin-2 (IL-2), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) on the induction of anti-thyroperoxidase (anti-TPO), anti-thyroglobulin (anti-Tg), and IgG-secreting cells (SC) by cultures of pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), Graves' disease (GD), and controls (C). The effect of human thyroglobulin (Tg) together with cytokines was also studied. No differences in the numbers of PWM-induced IgG-SC were found. However, greater numbers of PWM-induced anti-TPO-SC were observed in the HT preparations compared to C, either with or without the addition of Tg (p < 0.05). Inhibition of numbers of IgG-SC with certain cytokines in all 3 groups of preparations was observed (0.01 < p < 0.05). Decreased numbers of anti-TPO-SC were noted in HT preparations after exposing cells to IL-2 and TNF-alpha. Induction of anti-TPO-SC after addition of Tg plus cytokines was significantly lower in HT than in the other 2 groups. In contrast, induction of anti-TPO-SC in C was markedly increased by all cytokines, which was enhanced by Tg. These data suggest that cytokines play a role in auto-antibody regulation in auto-immune thyroid disease (AITD).
The expression of the beta 1 integrin CD29 and the beta 2 integrin CD11b is decreased in peripheral blood lymphocytes from Graves' disease patients.	We have prospectively examined the percentage of peripheral blood lymphocytes which expressed adhesion molecules in untreated Graves' disease patients. Eighteen patients with Graves' disease, twenty-four patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and thirty-two sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects were studied. The expression of the lymphocyte adhesion molecules beta-1 integrin CD29, beta-2 integrin CD11b and L-selectin Leu8 (CD62L) was analyzed by cytofluorometry. A decreased percentage of CD29+ and CD11b+ lymphocytes was observed in hyperthyroid patients in comparison with Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients and healthy controls. However, there was no difference in the percentage of CD62L+ lymphocytes in the three groups. Percentages of lymphocyte activation markers, hyperthyroid status, presence or absence of ophthalmopathy or serum levels of antithyroid antibodies were not related to the proportions of CD29+ or CD11b+ lymphocytes. Four Graves' patients required radical therapy but after the treatment, there was no modification in the percentages of CD29+ and CD11b+ lymphocytes compared with those determined at diagnosis. Our findings suggest that the decrease in beta-1 and beta-2 integrins could be a predisposing marker of development of Graves' disease.
Natural killer cell activity in patients with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	Natural killer (NK) cell activity of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) against k562 human tumor cell targets was studied in patients with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. NK activity was measured in a standard 4-hour 51chromium (Cr) release assay. Cytotoxicity was expressed as lytic units (LU)/10(6) PBL. Significantly decreased NK cell activity was demonstrated in both groups of patients, with mean (+/- SE) lytic units of 10.3 (+/- 9.1) and 13.3 (+/- 10.3) for patients with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis, respectively, compared with 36.0 (+/- 26.3) for age- and sex-matched normal subjects. When patients with Graves' disease were analyzed according to their thyroid status; NK activity was significantly depressed in (1) hyperthyroid patients before treatment; (2) hyperthyroid patients receiving antithyroid therapy; and (3) euthyroid patients receiving antithyroid therapy, compared with normal subjects. Graves' disease patients who were hypothyroid after radioactive iodine therapy or thyroidectomy had normal NK activity. No significant differences between hyperthyroid and euthyroid patients or between hypothyroid patients and normal subjects were demonstrated. NK activity in patients with Graves' disease did not correlate with serum levels of thyroxine, the presence or severity of ophthalmopathy, or titers of serum thyroid antibodies. In patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis there was no correlation between NK activity and goiter size, titers of antithyroid antibodies, or thyroid status. These findings suggest that depression of NK activity in both disorders is secondary to abnormalities of thyroid hormone secretion, although an effect of the underlying autoimmune reactions has not been excluded.
