Solitary fibrous tumor of the thyroid gland: report of seven cases.	Solitary fibrous tumor is a soft tissue neoplasm initially described in the pleura but subsequently reported in a wide variety of locations. The clinical behavior is usually benign, but the existence of aggressive cases has been documented both in the pleura and in extrapleural sites. In this report clinical and pathologic features of seven solitary fibrous tumors of the thyroid gland are presented. Patients' ages ranged from 43 to 64 years (mean 52 years), and tumor sizes varied from 2 to 6 cm. Grossly, the tumors were white-tan and well circumscribed. Microscopically, there was a variegated, wavy, storiform, hemangiopericytic or desmoid-like arrangement of spindle cells. Trapped thyroid follicles within the tumor and peripheral jagged tumor infiltration among follicles were common. There was immunohistochemical reactivity for CD34, CD99, and bcl-2, and ultrastructural analysis of one tumor was consistent with a fibroblastic lineage. The differential diagnosis included other benign and malignant mesenchymal tumors of the thyroid, spindle cell follicular adenoma, Riedel's thyroiditis, the spindle cell, and paucicellular variants of anaplastic carcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma, and the spindle epithelial tumor with thymus-like differentiation. The cumulative data of 13 cases (comprised of the seven present cases and the six previously reported) suggest a benign clinical behavior for thyroid SFT.
Inflammatory thyroid disorders.	Inflammatory thyroid disorders encompass a broad spectrum of diseases that are generally self-limited, and relatively easy to diagnose and manage. Autoimmune subtypes are by far the most commonly encountered diagnoses and create the most confusion because of simultaneous overlap and the potential for interconversion among the subtypes. The otolaryngologist will frequently see these disorders and provide valued consultative care and surgical intervention as needed.
Telomerase activity in thyroid fine needle aspirates.	To study the utility of telomerase activity (TA) detection in thyroid fine needle aspirates (FNAs).
Small hyperechogenic nodules in thyroiditis: usefulness of cytological characterization.	Small hyperechogenic nodules occurring in thyroiditis frequently raise the question of their nature requiring additional evaluation. Given the scarcity of the studies addressing this issue, we have investigated whether cytopathological analysis of fine needle aspirates (FNA) of these lesions may be of diagnostic relevance. In this preliminary study, we submitted to cytopathological analysis 10 nodular lesions as well as the normal counter-lateral tissue. In none but one of the cases analyzed, the cytopathology was able to detect differences between the hyperechogenic models and the hypoechogenic parenchyma suggesting that these lesions bear no-clinical relevance. Therefore, FNA of these nodules is not advisable and should be limited to those with defined at risk clinical features.
Fine needle aspiration cytology and immunocytochemistry in tuberculous thyroiditis: a case report.	Tuberculosis of the thyroid is very rare and does not strike the clinician as a first clinical diagnosis of a thyroid nodule. To our knowledge, only 40 cases of tuberculous thyroiditis diagnosed by fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) are described in the English literature.
Riedel's thyroiditis.	Invasive fibrous (Riedel's) thyroiditis is a rare thyroid condition of unknown origin that may be associated with inflammatory fibrosclerosing processes elsewhere in the body. Although the condition is benign and self-limiting, its importance lies in its ability to clinically mimic carcinoma almost completely, necessitating performing an open biopsy to establish the correct diagnosis. In a review of over 700 thyroid operations performed at Loma Linda (Calif) University Medical Center in the past 15 years, we encountered only one documented case of Riedel's thyroiditis. Our patient presented with a firm thyroid mass, vocal cord paralysis, and symptoms of esophageal compression. Surgery was performed to obtain a definitive diagnosis and prevent the possibility of subsequent additional tracheal compression with airway compromise. The pathologic findings, as well as the medical and surgical treatment of this condition, are reviewed.
Follicular lesions of the thyroid: a retrospective study of 1,348 fine needle aspiration biopsies.	Fine needle aspiration (FNA) has proven to be an effective tool in management of patients with thyroid nodules. However, the diagnosis of follicular patterned lesions can be challenging. The surgical and cytopathology computer database at a large referral medical center was searched for cases that had both cytologic and histologic thyroid accessions from January 2004 to November 2008. A total of 1,255 histologic thyroid specimens and 2,776 thyroid FNA biopsies were retrieved for review. Histologically, 272 overt malignancies were identified; 20 (7.4%) were follicular carcinomas. Cytologically, 1,348 cases were follicular-patterned lesions, comprising 1,044 cases of "benign follicular nodules" (BFN), 137 cases of "follicular lesions of undetermined significance" (FLUS), and 167 cases of "suspicious for follicular neoplasm" (SFN). Seventy-nine (7.5%) of BFN, 23 (16.8%) of FLUS, and 65 (38.9%) of SFN cases had histologic follow-up. Overt malignancy, a cystic papillary carcinoma, was identified histologically in only one case of BFN, for a negative predictive value of 98.7%. Overt malignancy was identified histologically in two cases of FLUS, both follicular variant of papillary carcinoma, for a positive predictive value of 8.7%. Overt malignancy was identified histologically in 14 cases of SFN, for a positive predictive value of 21.5%. Five follicular carcinomas were identified histologically in the SFN category, all minimally invasive. Incidental ("occult") papillary microcarcinoma were identified histologically in all three categories. In this study, the risk of overt malignancy increases from 1.3%, to 8.7%, to 21.5% for BFN, FLUS, and SFN, respectively. All follicular carcinomas identified histologically occurred in the SFN category and all were minimally invasive. Papillary microcarcinomas can occur in any of the three diagnostic categories.
Coccidioides thyroiditis in an HIV-infected patient.	We report a case of Coccidioides thyroiditis in an HIV-infected patient with a history of recent Coccidioides pneumonia but with negative Coccidioides serology determined by enzyme immunoassay at presentation. Diagnosis of Coccidioides thyroiditis was made based on histopathologic examination and culture of thyroid abscess material obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy.
Mean peak systolic velocity of the superior thyroid artery is correlated with radioactive iodine uptake in untreated thyrotoxicosis.	To evaluate the correlation between mean superior thyroid artery peak systolic velocity (STA-PSV) and radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) in Chinese patients with untreated thyrotoxicosis, using retrospectively and prospectively collected data.
Thyroiditis de Quervain. Are there predictive factors for long-term hormone-replacement?	Subacute thyroiditis is a usually self-limiting disease of the thyroid. However, approximately 0.5-15% of the patients require permanent thyroxine substitution. Aim was to determine predictive factors for the necessity of long-term hormone-replacement (LTH).
Isolation of Salmonella paratyphi A from thyroid abscess--a case report.	S. paratyphi A isolated from aberrant site i.e. thyroid abscess which is an unusual manifestation of focal salmonella infection. It is reported for its rare complications.
Riedel's struma associated with subacute thyroiditis, hypothyroidism, and hypoparathyroidism.	Riedel's struma with dense fibrous invasion of surrounding muscle and fat was found in a patient who had clinical subacute thyroiditis superimposed on primary hypothyroidism. Riedel's struma may sometimes be an uncommon stage in the more common subacute form of thyroiditis, although in our patient an unusual coincidence of subacute thyroiditis and Riedel's struma is also possible. Of interest in our patient was the development of spontaneous primary hypoparathyroidism; parathyroid function returned to normal concomitant with the spontaneous resolution of the goiter after partial resection. This patient also represents another instance of hyperthyroidism developing in a previously hypothyroid patient.
Radiography, ultrasonic diagnosis and radioimmunologic analysis in the differential diagnosis of diffuse goiter and thyroiditis]	Radionuclide functional dynamic investigation of the thyroid with 99mTc-pertechnetate was performed in 62 patients with diffuse euthyroid and toxic goiter, thyroiditides and in 17 controls. An analysis of the results of investigations and their comparison with clinical findings, an echo- and scintigraphic picture of the thyroid as well as with the levels of total thyroxine, triidothyronine and thyrotropin of the hypophysis showed that the results of a dynamic test of pertechnetate trapping corresponded, to a large extent, to the clinical status of patients with diffuse thyroid changes, correlated with an echographic picture and made it possible to define significant radiodiagnostic signs of thyroiditides. The proposed methods made it possible to increase the volume and improve the quality of diagnostic information in functional investigations of the thyroid status raising the efficacy of diagnosis of thyroid diseases and reducing radiation exposures and the time of investigations.
The role of fine needle aspiration biopsy cytology in the evaluation of the clinically solitary thyroid nodule.	The imputation that a clinically solitary nodule is a suspicious sign of carcinoma has been the cause of too many surgical procedures as well as the subject of much controversy. This study evaluated the effectiveness of fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy cytology in diagnosing the uninodular goiters in 286 patients who presented with clinically solitary nodules. The final diagnoses in these cases included carcinoma (4.7%), adenoma (6.3%), autonomous nodule (11.0%), colloid goiter (45.8%), colloid cyst (17.4%) and chronic thyroiditis (13.4%). The proportion of patients with cancer in this group was the same as in patients with multinodular and diffuse goiters. These findings call attention to (1) the fact that any thyroid disease may appear as a uninodular goiter and (2) the frequency with which lymphocytic thyroiditis was cytologically diagnosed, even in cases with negative antibody titers. The cytologic diagnosis of benign disease has contributed to a reduction in the number of unnecessary surgical procedures; only 24.1% of our patients with uninodular goiters underwent surgery.
Thyroid cancer mimicking thyroiditis.	Two patients with thyroid cancer, who presented with clinical and biochemical features of subacute thyroiditis, are reported, Confusion in diagnosis delayed therapy from 3 to 8 months. The relation between thyroiditis and thyroid cancer is discussed.
Thyroid diseases. Impulses for the ORL-physician]	Diseases of the thyroid gland are not uncommon. Understanding the basics of physiology, pathophysiology, endocrinology and nuclear medicine, the otolaryngologist very often will uncover pathologic findings which he previously might have overlooked. A systematic evaluation of thyroid disorders will result in a worthwhile and fascinating collaboration among specialists in internal and nuclear medicine as well as specialists in surgery.
Echography of non-suppurative thyroiditis]	The echographic results of 14 cases of thyroiditis (7 of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT), 5 of De Quervain subacute thyroiditis, 1 of lignous thyroiditis, 1 of Riedel's fibrous thyroiditis) were extracted from a consecutive series of 900 thyroid echograms and analysed retrospectively. Homogeneous hypoechogenicity, similar to that of surrounding muscles, was found in 12 cases. This hypoechogenicity affected all of the thyroid parenchyma diffusely in the 6 cases of CLT where it was present, and by contrast localised to a unilateral lateral or, more often, 2 bilateral lateral plaques, progressively blending with the residual parenchyma in SAT and lignous thyroiditis. Riedel's thyroiditis took the form of a large unilateral hypoechogenic but heterogeneous mass. Echography would seem overall to make a significant contribution in the diagnosis of thyroiditis: a diffuse hypoechogenic goitre is very common, though not an absolutely constant feature, in TCL. Bilateral lateral plaques of homogeneous hypoechogenicity are highly suggestive of a diagnosis of SAT.
The nonspecificity of the thyroid halo sign.	In a series of 28 patients with solitary solid thyroid masses, 10 of the patients had a mass surrounded by a rim of decreased echoes or by an echo-free rim, previously termed the halo sign. Eight of these lesions were benign, being either adenomas or benign nodules; however, two halos were also demonstrated surrounding proven carcinomas. The presence of the halo in both benign and malignant disease is illustrated, and the possibility of pericapsular inflammatory infiltrate as its underlying anatomic correlate is suggested.
Thyroid other endocrine and disorders in a general internal medicine group practice]	Retrospective analysis of 3397 patients of a general group practice revealed thyroid disease in 5.8% and other endocrine disease (including diabetes) in 2%. Of the total of 6629 diagnoses, one out of 25 was an endocrinopathy. Every 35th practice patient had an endocrine disease which required treatment. Endocrine laboratory tests were ordered in every 7th patient. Diabetes mellitus (1.7%), hyperthyroidism (0.38%), hypothyroidism (0.53%) and euthyroidism after goiter operation (1.4%) were the most frequent endocrine problems recorded. Euthyroid goiter was relatively rare (4%), probably because it was often considered an irrelevant finding and not coded for. The thyroid gland was therefore the most frequently affected endocrine organ and diabetes mellitus the most prevalent endocrine dysfunction. Compared with other diseases, endocrine problems were of intermediate prevalence. The analyzed group practice had relatively young patient population, which may account for the surprisingly low prevalence of diabetes mellitus. On the whole, however, the prevalence of various diseases in this group practice compared well with statistics in representative samples of Swiss medical practices.
Tuberculous thyroiditis: report of a case with a review of the literature.	A 49-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our department for evaluation of a thyroid nodule. She underwent subtotal thyroidectomy with modified neck dissection for a follicular thyroid carcinoma, suspected on preoperative diagnosis. The histological diagnosis was tuberculous thyroiditis. She made an uneventful recovery and received antituberculous agents. At follow-up she remains well and is euthyroid. Reports on forty-four patients in the Japanese literature were read. Tuberculous thyroiditis must be differentiated from thyroid cancer and subacute thyroiditis. Surgery plus administration of antituberculous drugs is considered the treatment of choice.
Fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms]	The clinical value of fine needle aspiration biopsy cytology is discussed with reference to 4514 histologically verified cases. A good sensitivity and specificity, together with high accuracy, make this technique a method of choice in the preoperative diagnosis of thyroid disease.
Clinical diagnostic potentials of thyroid ultrasonography and scintigraphy: an evaluation.	This prospective study was designed to evaluate the potential contributions of high resolution ultrasonography (US) and Tc-99m scintigraphy in the routine diagnosis of thyroid disease. The diagnostic impacts of US and Tc-99m scintigraphy results in 177 patients visiting our thyroid clinic were assessed and scored according to the following criteria: when the information provided by either test supported, confirmed or changed the initial clinical diagnosis, they received scores of 2, 3 and 4 respectively, while score 1 was given when the test itself was useless for the differential diagnosis. US identified focal lesions that both palpation and scintigraphy had failed to detect in 14 (12.1%) of 116 patients with diffuse thyroid diseases, suggesting the necessity of routine US examinations in such patients. US scored higher than scintigraphy in the diagnosis of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, adenoma, adenocarcinoma and adenomatous goiter, and vice versa in the diagnosis of hyperthyroid and euthyroid Graves' diseases. Thus, the advantages of US over scintigraphy for morphological evaluation were confirmed. US was particularly useful for the differential diagnosis of adenomatous goiter from Hashimoto's thyroiditis or a single nodular disease. In contrast, scintigraphy gave functional images, being especially helpful for the differential diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis.
Ultrasonography in the diagnosis of malignant lymphoma of the thyroid]	Malignant lymphoma of the thyroid was rare condition and it was difficult to make a diagnosis of malignant lymphoma preoperatively. Both ultrasonographic appearance and diagnostic significance of ultrasonography in malignant lymphoma of the thyroid were investigated in this study. Ultrasonography of 10 patients with malignant lymphoma of the thyroid was analyzed. Only 3 cases of 10 were diagnosed as malignant lymphoma by ultrasonography. Five cases were misdiagnosed as thyroid carcinoma, 1 as adenomatous goiter accompanied by cystic degeneration and 1 as chronic thyroiditis. Nine cases were nodular type i.e. limited extremely hypoechoic mass as contrasted with surrounding thyroid tissue, occupying asymmetrically in the thyroid gland. One case was diffuse type i.e. diffused hypoechoic area without surrounding residual thyroid tissue. The tumor size of the 2 cases in which no accumulation was observed in the 67Ga scintigram was 2 cm or less. By ultrasonography of these 2 cases, one case was diagnosed as malignant lymphoma and the other as thyroid carcinoma. Ultrasonography can be regarded to be very significant method as a screening test to make a diagnosis of malignant tumor for nodular type, especially small sized malignant lymphoma of the thyroid.
Nondiagnostic fine needle aspiration biopsy of the thyroid gland: a diagnostic dilemma.	To evaluate all nondiagnostic fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens from the thyroid gland with subsequent histopathologic diagnoses at Ottawa Civic Hospital. The criterion for specimen adequacy used in our institution was also reexamined to determine if it was too stringent.
Hypopituitarism associated with transient diabetes insipidus followed by an episode of painless thyroiditis in a young man.	A 16-year-old male complained of a headache and a high fever followed by polyuria. The endocrinological studies showed he had hypopituitarism and central diabetes insipidus, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a pituitary mass. Diabetes insipidus gradually improved and hydrocortisone treatment was begun at three months after onset, but a month later painless thyroiditis developed. An MRI demonstrated a spontaneous shrinkage of the pituitary mass nine months after onset. Lymphocytic hypophysitis followed by painless thyroiditis was the most probable diagnosis, although it is very uncommon especially among men.
Imaging the thyroid.	Thyroid imaging has historically relied heavily on scintigraphy, although, not surprisingly in view of the superficial position of the gland, ultrasound has assumed an increasingly prominent role in recent years. The other cross-sectional imaging modalities can also be useful, and the emergence of new radiopharmaceuticals and the increasingly central role of fine needle aspiration cytology have further added to the range of diagnostic techniques available. This review attempts to summarize the current state of knowledge, and makes some suggestions for the most efficient use of imaging resources in the investigation of thyroid disease.
Radioimmunoassay for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65) autoantibodies as a diagnostic aid for stiff-man syndrome and a correlate of susceptibility to type 1 diabetes mellitus.	To establish and validate a double-antibody radioimmunoassay (RIA) for detecting serum auto-antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65). This enzyme catalyzes synthesis of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid in neurons and pancreatic islet cells.
