Identification of the TRH-like peptides pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and pGlu-Phe-Pro amide in rat thyroid: regulation by thyroid status.	Rat thyroid contains thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and TRH-like peptides which react with TRH antisera. We have identified the TRH-like peptides in the thyroid and examined whether their levels are influenced by thyroid status. The peptides were extracted from the thyroid glands of five hyperthyroid rats and purified by ion-exchange chromatography on SP-Sephadex C25 and reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The principal TRH-immunoreactive component exhibited the same retention on HPLC as synthetic pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and a secondary component corresponded to synthetic pGlu-Phe-Pro amide. In agreement with these assignments the main peptide was shown to be acidic when chromatographed on DEAE-Sephadex A25 and the second peptide neutral. The levels of TRH and TRH-like peptides in the thyroid were investigated in hyper-, hypo- and euthyroid rats. Hyperthyroidism was induced by chronic subcutaneous administration of triiodothyronine (T3) and hypothyroidism was produced by addition of propylthiouracil (PTU) to the drinking water. The amounts of the peptides were determined by radioimmunoassay with a TRH-antiserum, carried out after extraction from the tissues and purification by ion exchange chromatography. The mean concentration of TRH-like peptides in the thyroids of the hyperthyroid rats was 95.5+/-25.5 pmol/g, the mean concentration in the hypothyroid rats was 11.7+/-3.4 pmol/g, and in the euthyroid rats 17.6+/-3.2 pmol/g. The concentrations of TRH were less influenced by thyroid status: the values in hyper-, hypo- and euthyroid rats were 47.5+/-9.4, 42.1+/-6.3, and 17.2+/-1.6 pmol/g respectively. The results show that the levels of the TRH-like peptides in rat thyroid are highly sensitive to thyroid status, suggesting a possible involvement in thyroid regulation.
Screening for cerebroprotective agents using an in vivo model of cerebral reversible depolarization in awake rats.	The need to screen cerebroprotective compounds without anesthetic interference prompted the development of a model using hypoxic rats. In this model two outcome measures were used: (1) the time to reach isoelectric electroencephalogram (iEEG), caused by nitrogen gas inhalation in the test chamber, and (2) the time for behavioral recovery measuring the latency of restoration of the head-withdrawal reflex upon vibrissae stimulation. We report here data of blood chemistry, cerebral tissue oxygen measurements, a definition of a proposed scoring system, and the pharmacological results of RGH-2202. The findings with RGH-2202 are used here to show the utility of the screening method. Events during hypoxia: Arterial and venous pO(2), pCO(2), and pH, and brain tissue pO(2)significantly declined. Significant correlations were established among the pO(2)of cerebral tissue, blood, and the test chamber. RGH-2202 significantly and dose-dependently shortened the iEEG time; the compound's Effective Dose(30)was 227.8 mg kg(-1). Events during recovery: Immediately after the iEEG, when the atmosphere in the chamber was replaced with room air, the arterial, venous and brain tissue pO(2)increased above the control level and subsequently recovered to baseline levels. Behavioral recovery occurred before blood chemistry was otherwise normalized. RGH-2202 significantly and dose-dependently shortened the recovery time; the Effective Dose(30)was 8.71 mg kg(-1). The available data define and support the physiological basis of this practicable rat-screening model.
Influence of methyl-TRH-induced prolactin increase on serum testosterone levels in normal adult men.	Our previous studies suggest that increased serum PRL, secondary to haloperidol-induced dopamine blockade, augments serum testosterone (T) levels in normal men. To rule out a direct effect of haloperidol on the testis, serum samples from a methyl-TRH study in normal men, in whom serum PRL levels were increased by a stimulus other than dopamine blockade, were analyzed for T. Fourteen subjects received both a low dose (6.25-12.5 micrograms) and a high dose (100-500 micrograms) of methyl-TRH on separate days; blood sampling was done for 15 min before and for 4 h after drug infusion. Compared to a saline control group of 14 normal men, who showed a diurnal decline of serum T levels, the methyl-TRH treated subjects had statistically significant increases in serum T after both low and high doses. These data provide further support for the concept that PRL is a pituitary hormone capable of augmenting serum T levels in normal adult men.
Protective effect of central thyrotropin-releasing hormone on carbon tetrachloride-induced acute hepatocellular necrosis in rats.	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) acts in the brain to stimulate hepatic proliferation and blood flow through vagal-muscarinic and prostaglandin-mediated pathways. Hepatic blood flow and prostaglandins are well recognized as cytoprotective factors for liver damage, and central TRH is known to play a role in gastric cytoprotection. The effect of central TRH on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced acute hepatocellular necrosis was investigated in rats.
Studies on the transport of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogues in Caco-2 cell monolayers.	The transport mechanisms of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and its pharmacologically active analogues ((3-methyl-His(2))TRH (MeTRH), taltirelin, montirelin, azetirelin) across Caco-2 cell monolayers were characterized. The results of kinetic analysis showed a linear relationship between the concentration (over the range 0.5-10 mM) and apical-to-basolateral transport rate of these agents. The permeability coefficients (P(app)) of these agents were not substantially different from each other, and their P(app) ratios of the basolateral-to-apical over the apical-to-basolateral transport were close to one (0.73-1.23). The cellular transport of [(3)H]MeTRH at low concentrations (3-15 nM) showed a linear relationship between the concentration and transport rate. The transport of [(3)H]MeTRH in Caco-2 cell monolayers was neither affected by TRH nor TRH analogues, and there was little difference in P(app) values between [(3)H]MeTRH and [(14)C]mannitol. The cell-per-medium ratio of [(3)H]MeTRH in the cellular uptake experiment was similar to the value of [14C]mannitol. A large excess of TRH and MeTRH did not significantly influence cell-per-medium ratios of [(3)H]MeTRH in Caco-2 cell monolayers. The k'(IAM) value, which represents lipophilicity, was decreased in the following order: montirelin > taltirelin > TRH > azetirelin, and the values varied from 0.234 to 1.028. These results indicate that a paracellular passive diffusion may be the major route for the transport of TRH and its analogues in Caco-2 cell monolayers.
Biological activities of thionated thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogs.	Analogs of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (Glp-His-Pro-NH2, TRH) have been prepared which contain thioamide moieties in the pyroglutamic acid ring, the carboxyamide proline terminus, and in both positions (dithio). These compounds have been tested for TSH-releasing activities (in vitro and in vivo), and for binding to TRH receptors in rat pituitary and cortex. The monothionated analogs showed no significant differences in TSH-releasing potency from TRH either in vitro or in vivo. However, with two thioamide replacements the potency decreases about 50%. Significantly, in terms of receptor selectivity, thionation has resulted in differentiation between brain receptors (pituitary and cortex). The Pro psi[CSNH2] and dithio analogs were more selective (higher affinity to pituitary receptors) than the parent hormone, while the analog containing a thioamide replacement in the pyroglutamyl ring had lower affinity and was not selective. These results suggest that the subtle exchange of sulphur for oxygen can have an important impact on both receptor selectivity and affinity within a biologically active peptide.
Evaluation of early gastric mucosal permeability induced by central thyrotropin-releasing hormone administration.	Accumulating evidence suggests that central thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) administration induces gastric erosion 4 h after administration through the vagal nerves. However, early changes in the gastric mucosa during these 4 h have not been described. To assess early changes in the gastric mucosa after intracisternal injection of a stable TRH analog, pGlu-His-(3,3'-dimethyl)-ProNH2 (RX-77368), we measured the blood-to-lumen 51Cr-labeled EDTA clearance and examined the effects of vagotomy, atropine, omeprazole, and hydrochloric acid (HCl) on RX-77368-induced mucosal permeability. A cytoprotective dose of RX-77368 (1.5 ng) did not increase mucosal permeability. However, higher doses significantly increased mucosal permeability. Permeability peaked within 20 min and gradually returned to control levels in response to a 15-ng dose (submaximal dose). Increased mucosal permeability was not recovered after a 150-ng dose (ulcerogenic dose). This increase in permeability was inhibited by vagotomy or atropine. Intragastric perfusion with HCl did not change the RX-77368 (15 ng)-induced increase in permeability, but completely inhibited the recovery of permeability after the peak. Pretreatment with omeprazole did not change the RX-77368 (15 ng)-induced increase in permeability, but quickened the recovery of permeability after the peak. These data indicate that the RX-77368-induced increase in permeability is mediated via the vagal-cholinergic pathway and is not a secondary change in RX-77368-induced acid secretion. Inhibited recovery of permeability on exposure to an ulcerogenic RX-77368 dose or on exposure to HCl plus a submaximal dose of RX-77368 may be crucial for the induction of gastric mucosal lesions by central RX-77368 administration.
Central thyrotropin-releasing factor analog prevents ethanol-induced gastric damage through prostaglandins in rats.	The effects of intracisternal injection of the stable thyrotropin-releasing factor (TRH) analog RX 77368 on gastric lesions induced by 60% ethanol and gastric prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) release were studied in rats. RX 77368 (1.0 and 1.5 ng) injected intracisternally inhibited (by 58% and 78%, respectively) macroscopic gastric damage induced by ethanol. Higher doses (3 and 300 ng) inhibited ethanol-induced gastric injury only in rats pretreated with omeprazole (20 mg/kg SC). Gastric acid output measured in conscious rats 2 hours after pylorus ligation was not modified by intracisternal injection of RX 77368 at 1.5 ng but was significantly increased by 54% at the 3-ng dose. The protective effect of TRH analog (1.5 ng) was completely abolished by indomethacin (5 mg/kg IP) and atropine (2 mg/kg SC) pretreatment. In pylorus-ligated rats, intracisternal RX 77368 (1.5 ng) inhibited ethanol-induced gastric lesions by 64%. Intracisternal injection of RX 77368 (1.5 ng) increased PGE2 levels measured in the effluent of dialysis fibers implanted into the corpus submucosa of urethane-anesthetized rats. Peripheral administration of omeprazole, atropine, indomethacin, or RX 77368 (1.5 ng IV) did not influence gastric damage induced by ethanol. These data show that the stable TRH analog, RX 77368, injected intracisternally at low non-secretory doses acts in the brain to protect against ethanol lesions through prostaglandin and cholinergic pathways. These findings suggest that central vagal activation induced by TRH may play a role in the control of mucosal integrity against ethanol through cholinergic prostaglandin release.
Fluoxetine pretreatment potentiates intracisternal TRH analogue-stimulated gastric acid secretion in rats.	Central injection of TRH or its metabolically stable analogue RX 77368 has been demonstrated to produce a vagal-dependent stimulation in gastric acid secretion. Accumulating evidence exists regarding the interaction of serotonin (5HT) with TRH containing neuronal systems. This study was performed to assess the effect of pretreatment with the 5HT uptake inhibitor fluoxetine on the TRH analogue-induced gastric acid secretory response. Systemic fluoxetine (30 mumol/kg, i.v.) produced a 43-85% increase in the intracisternal RX 77368 (78-780 pmol)-induced gastric acid output, while not affecting the basal acid response. The acid response to a lower dose of RX 77368 (26 pmol) was not altered. In addition, intracisternal fluoxetine (180 nmol) produced a 71% augmentation of the acid secretory response of i.c. RX 77368 (260 pmol). Intracisternal injection of lower doses (60, 120 nmol), or intravenous injection of 180 nmol of fluoxetine was ineffective in altering the intracisternal RX 77368-induced acid response. Pretreatment with the noradrenergic or dopaminergic uptake inhibitor desipramine or GBR 12909 did not alter the RX 77368-stimulated gastric acid secretory response. The results show that fluoxetine pretreatment potentiates the effect of intracisternal RX 77368 on acid secretion. The effect appears to be impulse dependent, and central sites of action are involved. The data suggest an interaction of synaptic serotonin with a RX 77368-elicited event (activation of TRH receptors, second messenger systems and/or firing of the motor vagus) results in potentiation of the RX 77368-induced gastric response.
Effects of thyrotropin releasing hormone and its analogues on unconsciousness following head injury in mice.	We examined the effects of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and its analogues (DN-1417: gamma-butyrolactone-gamma-carbonyl-histidyl-prolinamide citrate; MK-771: L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-histidyl-thiazolidine-4-carboxamide; TSII-37: H-Lys-Gln-His-Pro-Gly-Ser-OH) on arousal in head injured mice, an animal model of unconsciousness. TRH, DN-1417, MK-771 and TSII-37 were injected 10 min before the head injury. TRH, DN-1417 and MK-771 caused dose-dependent decreases in the time required for recovery of the righting reflex time and in the time from the head injury to the onset of spontaneous movement. TSII-37 had no effect, when compared with the control group. In terms of the minimum effective dose, TRH and DN-1417 were of similar potency, but MK-771 was about 30-fold stronger than TRH. Measurement of the cross-reactivities of these TRH analogues by radiolabeled receptor assay suggest that the structure-binding relationship is proportional to the structure-activity relationship.
First messenger regulation of mammalian sperm function via adenylyl cyclase/cAMP.	When released into an appropriate environment, mammalian spermatozoa begin to capacitate and then continue until fully capacitated and able to fertilize. During capacitation in vitro, some cells 'over-capacitate' and undergo spontaneous acrosome reactions; this would be highly undesirable in vivo since already acrosome-reacted spermatozoa are non-fertilizing. Recent studies have revealed that seminal plasma contains several small molecules that bind to specific receptors on the sperm plasma membrane and act as 'first messengers', causing biologically important changes in availability of the 'second messenger' cAMP. Fertilization promoting peptide (FPP), calcitonin and adenosine all regulate cAMP production, stimulating it in uncapacitated spermatozoa and then inhibiting it in capacitated cells; in contrast, angiotensin II stimulates cAMP throughout capacitation. The molecules that regulate cAMP appear to do so via G protein-modulated changes in membrane associated adenylyl cyclases (mACs). Both mouse and human spermatozoa have been shown to have Galphas and Galphai2, as well as several isoforms of mAC, located in the same regions as the specific receptors. Thus spermatozoa possess the required elements for several separate signal transduction pathways, many of which regulate mAC/cAMP and so maintain sperm fertilizing ability. In vivo, such responses could increase the chances of successful fertilization.
Attenuation of alcohol preference in alcohol-preferring rats by a novel TRH analogue, TA-0910.	Experiments were performed to characterize the acute effect of different doses of a novel thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue (TA-0910) on ethanol intake in rats. Selectively bred alcohol-preferring (P) rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of normal saline or 0.083, 0.25 and 0.75 mg/kg of TA-0910 at 9:30 AM, and their consumption of ethanol, water, and food was measured for 24 hr. TA-0910 dose-dependently attenuated ethanol intake and commensurately increased water consumption. Only the highest dose of TA-0910 increased the total caloric intake. TA-0910 did not affect the pharmacokinetics of ethanol. These findings indicate involvement of TRH systems in ethanol preference and suggest that centrally acting TRH analogues may be therapeutic in the treatment of alcoholism.
Conformational analysis of biologically active thyroliberin analogs by two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy]	Preferable conformations of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH, Glp-His-Pro-NH2) and its analogues Glp-Glu(R)-Pro-NH2 (R = NHCH(CH3)CH2Ar), Glp-Gln-Abu-NH2, Dho-Gln-Abu-NH2 in DMSO solution are determined using two-dimensional 1H NMR spectroscopy (delta-J-correlated, COSY and NOESY). Torsion angles psi i and chi i for every amino acid were calculated on the basis of the spin-spin coupling constants 3JNH-C alpha H and 3JC alpha H-C beta H values. The NOESY data were used for selecting the peptide conformations realized in solution. Distances between protons interacting by the dipole mechanism (d-contacts) were calculated using NOE values. These experiments allow one to estimate the torsion angles psi (between C alpha H-CO). TRH has an intramolecular H-bond between NH2-protons and His carbonyl with the torsion angles omega 3 = 180 degrees and psi 3 = 0 degrees. It is formation of this H-bond that apparently promotes the domination of the trans configuration of the His-Pro peptide bond. An intramolecular NH2-C alpha CO (Glp) H-bonding is revealed in other investigated compounds. It is known that a similar conformation of the TRH is realized in the course of its interaction with receptor.
Synthesis, receptor binding, and activation studies of N(1)-alkyl-L-histidine containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogues.	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogues in which the N(1)-position of the imidazole ring of the centrally placed histidine residue is substituted with various alkyl groups were synthesized and studied as agonists for TRH receptor subtype 1 (TRH-R1) and subtype 2 (TRH-R2). Analogue 3 (R=C2H5) exhibited binding affinity (Ki) of 0.012 microM to TRH-R1 that is about 1.1-fold higher than that of TRH. Several analogues were found to selectively activate TRH-R2 with greater potency than TRH-R1. The most selective agonist of the series 5 [R=CH(CH3)2] was found to activate TRH-R2 with a potency (EC50) of 0.018 microM but could only activate TRH-R1 at EC50 value of 1.6 microM; that is, exhibited 88-fold greater potency for TRH-R2 versus TRH-R1. The results of this study indicate that modulation of central histidine residue is important for designing analogues which were selective agonist at TRH receptor subtypes.
Modifications of the pyroglutamic acid and histidine residues in thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) yield analogs with selectivity for TRH receptor type 2 over type 1.	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogs in which the N-1(tau) or the C-2 position of the imidazole ring of the histidine residue is substituted with various alkyl groups and the l-pyroglutamic acid (pGlu) is replaced with the l-pyro-2-aminoadipic acid (pAad) or (R)- and (S)-3-oxocyclopentane-1-carboxylic acid (Ocp) were synthesized and studied as agonists for TRH receptor subtype 1 (TRH-R1) and subtype 2 (TRH-R2). We observed that several analogs were selective agonists of TRH-R2 showing relatively less or no activation of TRH-R1. For example, the most selective agonist of the series 13, in which pGlu is replaced with the pAad and histidine residue is substituted at the N-1 position with an isopropyl group, was found to activate TRH-R2 with a potency (EC(50)=1.9microM) but did not activate TRH-R1 (potency>100 microM); that is, exhibited >51-fold greater selectivity for TRH-R2 versus TRH-R1. Analog 8, in which pGlu is replaced with pAad and histidine is substituted at the N-1(tau) position with a methyl group, exhibited a binding affinity (K(i)=0.0032 microM) to TRH-R1 that is similar to that of [Ntau(1)-Me-His]-TRH and displayed potent activation of TRH-R1 and TRH-R2 (EC(50)=0.0049 and 0.0024 microM, respectively). None of the analogs in which pGlu is replaced with the bioisosteric (R)- and (S)-(Ocp) and the imidazole ring is substituted at the N-1(tau) or C-2 position were found to bind or activate either TRH-R1 or TRH-R2 at the highest test dose of 100 microM.
Evidence for interplay between thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and its structural analogue pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH2 ([Glu2]TRH) in the brain: an in vivo microdialysis study.	Local perfusion of pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH2, an endogenous peptide structurally related to thyrotropine-releasing hormone (TRH), via in vivo microdialysis into the rat hippocampus did not change the basal level of extracellular acetylcholine. However, co-perfusion of pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH2 with TRH in equimolar concentrations yielded a significant attenuation of TRH-induced acetylcholine release. The results have supported the study's hypothesis that pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH2 opposes the cholinergic effect of TRH in the mammalian central nervous system. The enantiomer pGlu-d-Glu-Pro-NH2 affected neither basal extracellular nor TRH-induced increase of acetylcholine levels.
Exploratory neuropharmacological evaluation of a conformationally constrained thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogue.	A conformationally constrained peptidomimetic derived from the endocrine and neuroactive tripeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (pGlu-His-Pro-NH(2)) was synthesized by convenient solid-phase organic chemistry and evaluated as a potential central nervous system agent. While this ethylene-bridged peptide analogue has been reported to lack the hormonal effect of the native peptide, we have shown in animal models that it possesses central nervous system activity characteristic of thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Compared to control, the peptidomimetic showed significant analeptic and antidepressant-like potencies. Moreover, an enhanced selectivity in antidepressant-like effect was measured when compared to that of the native peptide. Immobilized artificial membrane chromatography and in vitro metabolic stability studies also revealed that this constrained peptidomimetic has higher affinity to the blood-brain barrier than the native peptide and is metabolically stable. Consequently, this structure may be used as a template to design centrally selective and metabolically stable thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogues as potential neuropharmaceutical agents.
Pharmacological study of TA-0910, a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog (II): Involvement of the DA system in the locomotor stimulating action of TA-0910.	The mechanism of the locomotor stimulating action of a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog, TA-0910, was studied in rats. The locomotor stimulating action of TA-0910 (3 mg/kg) was inhibited by haloperidol or alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (alpha-MT); slightly inhibited by phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, clonidine, or naloxone; not affected by propranolol, metergoline, or a low dose of scopolamine; and was enhanced by a high dose of scopolamine. The locomotor activity was increased by TA-0910 (0.3 mg/kg) in combination with methamphetamine, apomorphine, or L-DOPA under pretreatment with pargyline. A low dose of apomorphine inhibited the increase in locomotor activity induced by TA-0910 (3 mg/kg). The increase in locomotion was most notable and dose-dependent with the injection of 20 ng or more in the nucleus accumbens. The intravenous administration of TA-0910 produced dose-dependent and significant hyperlocomotion at 1 mg/kg or more. In the rats lesioned unilaterally in the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathway by 6-hydroxydopamine, TA-0910 induced ipsilateral circling behavior at 3 mg/kg or more. This circling behavior was inhibited by haloperidol or alpha-MT. These results suggest that the locomotor stimulating action of TA-0910 is mediated primarily via the dopaminergic neuron, especially the nucleus accumbens of the mesolimbic DA system. Other possible mechanisms are also discussed.
Pharmacological study of TA-0910, a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog (III): Inhibition of pentobarbital anesthesia.	Sites and mechanisms of the antagonistic action of TA-0910, a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog, on pentobarbital anesthesia were studied in rats. Intravenous administration of TA-0910 dose-dependently shortened the duration of pentobarbital anesthesia at 30 micrograms/kg or more. The anti-anesthetic action of TA-0910 after intracerebral injection was in the following order of effectiveness: the posterior lateral hypothalamic area greater than midbrain reticular formation greater than raphe nuclei = locus ceruleus greater than anterior lateral hypothalamic area = ventral globus pallidus = hippocampus. TA-0910 injected into the nucleus accumbens, medial septal nucleus, parietal cortex or striatum had no effect, even at high doses. The anti-anesthetic action of TA-0910 (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) was inhibited by a low dose of scopolamine or mecamylamine and by a high dose of haloperidol, phenoxybenzamine or metergoline. However, physostigmine and oxotremorine showed no anti-anesthetic action alone or in combination with TA-0910 (0.01 mg/kg, i.v.). Pentobarbital anesthesia was not inhibited by carbachol injected into various sites of the brain. These results suggest that the inhibitory effect of TA-0910 on pentobarbital anesthesia is mainly produced by activation of the posterior lateral hypothalamic area and the midbrain reticular formation, and that the involvements of not only acetylcholine but also other neurotransmitters such as dopamine, serotonin, and noradrenaline should be examined for their anti-anesthetic action.
High levels of thyrotropin-releasing hormone precursor peptide immunoreactivity and binding substance occur in human cerebrospinal fluid.	A thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) precursor peptide, pGlu-His-Pro-Gly (TRH-Gly) and related peptides were measured in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with a TRH-Gly radiommunoassay and the levels of immunoreactivity (IR) were found to be 136- to 352-fold higher than the corresponding levels of TRH-IR. TRH-IR levels in CSF are elevated during the active phase of multiple sclerosis (MS). We have used this TRH-Gly RIA to determine whether this TRH precursor peptide is also elevated in CSF from MS and Alzheimer's (ALZ) disease patients in comparison with the corresponding levels in non-central nervous system disease (control) patients. A highly significant increase in TRH-Gly-IR was observed in MS and ALZ CSF samples compared to control CSF. Cation exchange and exclusion chromatography of extracts of mixtures of CSF and synthetic TRH-Gly revealed two peaks of TRH-Gly-IR. One cochromatographed with synthetic TRH-Gly and the other was attributable to the formation of a complex between TRH-Gly and a binding substance originating in CSF. Corresponding studies with extracts of mixtures of CSF and synthetic TRH revealed no evidence for TRH binding with any component of CSF. Reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography of pooled extracts of normal CSF revealed that about a third of the total TRH-Gly-IR coeluted with synthetic TRH-Gly. The half-time for in vitro metabolism of synthetic TRH-Gly in fresh CSF was 5 times longer than for synthetic TRH at 37 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Development of a radioimmunoassay for RX77368 (pGlu-His-3,3-dimethyl proline amide)--a stable analogue of thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH).	The recent interest in RX77368 for the treatment of Motor Neurone Disease (MND) has led to the requirement for an assay (RIA) capable of detecting the peptide at low levels in plasma. Several drug conjugates were prepared in which RX77368 was covalently linked to larger proteins, e.g. bovine serum albumin, keyhole limpet haemocyanin or bovine thyroglobulin, the best yield being obtained with the bis-diazotized benzidine reaction (BDB) linking RX77368 to KLH. The latter conjugate was injected into sheep and ultimately produced an antibody of sufficiently high titre to be used. This combined with an iodinated radiolabel formed the basis of the radioimmunoassay. Cross-reactivity studies using similar analogues and RX77368 metabolites showed that the antibody was specific for RX77368. The greatest cross-reactivity was exhibited by the pGlu-His-monomethylProNH2 peptide (RX74355), but, not being a natural metabolite, this did not interfere with the assay. The RIA was used to measure RX77368 in MND patients in a recent clinical study, where RX77368 was administered both by the intravenous and oral routes. High plasma concentrations of RX77368 were found in the patients given intravenous drug by infusion. The oral route exhibited much lower levels, but had a sustained duration of action of up to 12 h.
Thyroliberin (TRH) and TRH free acid (TRH-OH) present in milk do not originate from local synthesis in mammary gland.	Hypothalamic hormones represent a peculiar group of hormones present in milk in surprisingly high concentrations. High levels of these neuropeptides raised the question of their origin. The hypothesis suggesting local synthesis of TRH in the mammary gland was, therefore, tested. Acid extracts of human milk contained TRH and TRH-OH immunoreactivity. RIA determinations at various purification steps revealed that only a part of the immunoreactivity may represent authentic peptides. No high molecular weight TRH precursor could be demonstrated upon a sequential enzymatic treatment of human milk and rat mammary gland extracts. Exploration of rat mammary gland tissue for TRH mRNA showed that the TRH gene is not expressed in the mammary gland. Rat mammary gland homogenates were able to deamidate exogenous TRH to TRH-OH.
Pyroglutamylglutamylprolineamide is present in rat anterior and posterior pituitary gland.	A new TRH-like peptide pyroglutamylglutamylprolineamide (pGlu-Glu-ProNH2) has recently been purified and characterized from both the rabbit prostate complex and human semen. In this study, TRH-immunoreactive peptides were extracted from anterior pituitary, posterior pituitary and hypothalamus and subjected to gel exclusion chromatography. For each tissue, TRH was resolved from pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 by anion-exchange chromatography at pH 7.6. In the anterior pituitary, 63% of the TRH immunoreactivity was chromatographically identical to pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 whereas in the posterior pituitary the new peptide represented less than 5% of the total TRH immunoreactivity. Only trace levels of pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 were observed in hypothalamus, suggesting that the acidic TRH-related peptide found in the anterior pituitary may not be of hypothalamic origin. The new TRH-like peptide was purified from whole pituitaries by gel exclusion and ion-exchange chromatography, followed by high power liguid chromatography and was shown to have chromatographic properties identical to pGlu-Glu-ProNH2. Amino acid analysis of the purified peptide revealed glutamic acid and proline residues in the ratio Glx:2 Pro:1, which is the expected composition of pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 after acid hydrolysis.
Brain-gut interactions between central vagal activation and abdominal surgery to influence gastric myenteric ganglia Fos expression in rats.	We previously showed that medullary thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) or the stable TRH agonist, RX-77368 administered intracisternally induces vagal-dependent activation of gastric myenteric neurons and prevents post surgery-induced delayed gastric emptying in rats. We investigated whether abdominal surgery alters intracisternal (ic) RX-77368 (50 ng)-induced gastric myenteric neuron activation. Under 10 min enflurane anesthesia, rats underwent an ic injection of saline or RX-77368 followed by a laparotomy and a 1-min cecal palpation, or no surgery and were euthanized 90 min later. Longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus whole-mount preparations of gastric corpus and antrum were processed for immunohistochemical detection of Fos alone or double labeled with protein gene-product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). In the non surgery groups, ic RX-77368 induced a 17 fold increase in Fos-expression in both gastric antrum and corpus myenteric neurons compared to saline injected rats. PGP 9.5 ascertained the neuronal identity of myenteric cells expressing Fos. In the abdominal surgery groups, ic RX-77368 induced a significant increase in Fos-expression in both the corpus and antrum myenteric ganglia compared with ic saline injected rats which has no Fos in the gastric myenteric ganglia. However, the response was reduced by 73-78% compared with that induced by ic RX 77368 without surgery. Abundant VAChT positive nerve fibers were present around Fos positive neurons. These results indicate a bidirectional interaction between central vagal stimulation of gastric myenteric neurons and abdominal surgery. The modulation of gastric vagus-myenteric neuron activity could play an important role in the recovery phase of postoperative gastric ileus.
Synthesis and central nervous system actions of thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogs containing a 1-substituted 2-oxoimidazolidine moiety.	A series of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogs in which the pyroglutamic acid residue was replaced by (S)-2-oxoimidazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (Oic-OH) and the related derivatives was prepared, and the central nervous system (CNS) actions were examined. Of these, 1-benzyl-Oic-His-Pro-NH2 (2c) showed the most potent activities, which were 1.5-8 times greater than those of TRH. Moreover, the thyrotropin (TSH)-releasing activity of 2c was about 1/16 times weaker than that of TRH.
Effects of a new analogue of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on pentobarbital-induced sleeping time in rodents.	The effects of a new analogue of TRH, YM-14673 (N-[[(S)-4-oxo-2-azetidinyl]carbonyl]-L-histidyl-L-prolinamide dihydrate) on pentobarbital-sleeping time were observed in comparison with those of TRH in rodents. The YM-14673 was administered intravenously, orally and intramuscularly. In all cases it reduced pentobarbital-sleeping time in rats and/or mice in a dose-dependent manner. The analeptic activity of YM-14673 was about 10 times greater than that of TRH. Analeptic action was also observed with successive intravenous injections of YM-14673, once daily for 5 and 14 days in mice, suggesting that the drug induced no tolerance. In addition, there was evidence that the pituitary-thyroid axis was not necessary for the analeptic effects of YM-14673. In particular, it was noted that hypophysectomy did not reduce the antagonism by YM-14673 of pentobarbital-induced sleep and intracerebrally administered YM-14673 produced analeptic actions in mice. Pretreatment with atropine and baclofen antagonized the ability of YM-14673 to reduce sleep, induced by pentobarbital in mice. However, the analeptic action of YM-14673 was not reduced by the administration of haloperidol and phentolamine. These results suggest that YM-14673 produced facilitatory effects on the central nervous system, independent of an effect on the pituitary gland, and that the antagonizing effects by YM-14673 on the actions of pentobarbital may be affected by activation of the central cholinergic system as well as by inhibition of the GABA-ergic system.
Abnormal locomotion in the rat after administration of a TRH analogue.	Previous studies have indicated that the TRH analogue CG3703 induces changes in gross measures of motor activity. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether it affected the underlying components of the locomotor cycle, stance and swing times. It has been found that while total stride time was unaffected there was an alteration in the balance between swing and dual stance times such that treated rats used longer swing times and shorter dual stance times. For both control and treated animals dual stance time increased with stride time. However, for any particular stride time, treated animals deployed longer swing times and shorter dual stance times. Possible mechanisms for these observations are discussed.
Comparative conformation-activity relationships for hormonally- and centrally-acting TRH analogues.	Empirical energy calculations have been applied to a series of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogues in an attempt to incorporate the conformational parameter into traditional Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships (QSAR). A search was made of the potential surface of each analogue using a SIMPLEX technique coupled with a model representing solvent effects as a dielectric continuum. Conformers of TRH can be described in terms of the distance between the pyroglutamyl, imidazole and prolyl rings, and presented as two-dimensional descriptor coordinates using multidimensional scaling. This process was repeated for stable and metastable conformers of all the TRH analogues investigated and correlated with experimental data on receptor affinity, relative stability and biological potency of the analogues. The results obtained suggest that modifications to the TRH structure can lead to greater potency in addition to improved stability, and that providing the appropriate theoretical approach is taken, it is possible to apply QSAR-based design procedures to conformationally-flexible drugs.
Effect of TRH analog (DN-1417) on tyrosine hydroxylase activity in mesocortical, mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons of rat brain.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was assayed in eight regions of rat brain following repeated treatment with a TRH analog, DN-1417 (gamma-butyrolactone-gamma-carbonyl-histidyl-prolinamide). Repeated DN-1417 treatment (20 mg/kg/day, IP) for 7 days increased TH activity in the ventral tegmental area and decreased in the prefrontal cortex polar, medial and lateral fields and olfactory tubercles. No significant change in TH activity was found in the nucleus accumbens, striatum and substantia nigra. Kinetic analysis showed that the increased TH activity in the ventral tegmental area was due to an increase in Vmax, but not a change in the apparent Km of TH for a cofactor, 6-methyl-tetrahydropteridine. When TH was assayed at a suboptimal pH and in the presence of a subsaturating cofactor, the striatal TH was activated significantly after DN-1417. In the prefrontal cortex medial field, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles, TH activity assayed under the suboptimal condition was not modified by DN-1417 treatment. These results suggest an intimate involvement of central dopaminergic systems in the actions of DN-1417.
Behavioural and biochemical evidence for the release of noradrenaline in mouse brain by TRH and some of its biologically stable analogues.	Small doses of clonidine probably induce hypoactivity (a distinct form of sedation) by stimulating presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors. This was attenuated by injection of 0.1-10 mg/kg of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) or its biologically stable analogues, CG3509, CG3703 and RX77368, when these were given 10 min before clonidine. This effect was dose-dependent in all cases, but the analogues were more potent than TRH. The TRH metabolites, TRH acid and histidyl-proline diketopiperazine (10 mg/kg) were without effect. This response was still attenuated by the analogues, but not TRH, when these were given 1 hr before clonidine. The results, therefore, suggested that it was the basic tripeptide structure which was active and TRH was less potent than its analogues because of rapid metabolism. Attenuation of hypoactivity by TRH and analogues was not due to increased dopaminergic function because apomorphine (5 mg/kg) was ineffective. Thyrotropin releasing hormone (20 mg/kg), CG3509 (10 mg/kg) and CG3703 (1 mg/kg) also induced locomotor activity and produced various other behavioural changes. This was inhibited by prazosin (3 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) but not by yohimbine (1 mg/kg). Apomorphine (5 mg/kg)-induced activity was inhibited by haloperidol and yohimbine but not by prazosin. This indicated that the activity produced by the TRH compounds, but not apomorphine, was partly mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors. Both CG3509 (10(-5) and 10(-4) M) and RX77368 (10(-4) M) evoked the release of endogenous noradrenaline from slices of hypothalamus in vitro. The TRH analogues, however, had no affinity for alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoceptors in ligand-receptor binding experiments. Viewed overall, the data showed that TRH and its analogues induced the release of noradrenaline in the brain. In addition, a comparison of the behavioural effects of TRH compounds with dopamine and alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonists suggested that in mice these behavioural responses resulted from stimulation of both noradrenergic and dopaminergic function.
Inhibition of [3H][3-MeHis2]thyrotropin releasing hormone recognition sites in the rat brain by tifluadom, a kappa opiate receptor agonist.	The effect of tifluadom (TIF), a postulated kappa-opiate agonist with a benzodiazepine (Bz) structure, on the binding of [3H][3-MeHis2]thyrotropin releasing hormone [( 3H]MeTRH) to receptors for thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) in membranes from rat brain was determined. Tifluadom inhibited the binding of [3H]MeTRH with an IC50 value of 1.88 microM. When the binding was carried out in the presence of an IC20 concentration of tifluadom, the Bmax value of [3H]MeTRH was decreased by 20% but no change in the Kd value was noted, indicating that the inhibition was apparently noncompetitive. Ro 15-1788 a benzodiazepine antagonist, as well as bicuculline, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist did not antagonize the effect of tifluadom on the binding of [3H]MeTRH suggesting that the benzodiazepine receptors are not involved in the action of tifluadom. Since tifluadom is suggested to be a kappa-opioid agonist, the effect of other kappa-opiate ligands were also tested for their ability to affect TRH receptors. The drugs used were ethylketocyclazocine, dynorphin(1-13) and 5-bromo-6-(2-imidazoline-2-ylamino)quinoxaline (U-50,488H). The order of potency of these compounds to inhibit the binding of [3H]MeTRH to membrane from the rat brain was in the following order: tifluadom greater than U-50,488H greater than dynorphin-(1-13) greater than ethylketocyclazocine. It is concluded that tifluadom inhibits the binding of [3H]MeTRH to receptors in brain in a noncompetitive manner. The effect does not appear to be mediated through benzodiazepine receptors but possibly through kappa-opiate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Involvement of catecholaminergic neurones and alpha-adrenoceptors in the wet-dog shake and forepaw licking behaviour produced by the intrathecal injection of an analogue of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (CG 3509).	Intrathecal injection of the analogue of TRH, CG 3509, into conscious rats produced dose-related wet-dog shakes and forepaw licking, which showed a bell-shaped relationship of intensity to dose. Pretreatment with alpha-MPT intraperitoneally, markedly reduced levels of noradrenaline and dopamine in the spinal cord and brainstem and attenuated both CG 3509-induced responses, while intrathecal treatment with DSP4 selectively reduced noradrenaline in the spinal cord without affecting either behaviour. Since denervation supersensitivity may develop following treatment with DSP4, these results are not inconsistent with a proposal that bulbospinal noradrenergic neurones modulate the behaviour induced by CG 3509. Wet-dog shakes and forepaw licking induced by CG 3509 were reduced by pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine or prazosin, suggesting that a tonic noradrenergic pathway may facilitate both behavioural responses through alpha 1-adrenoceptors. Methoxamine, combined with CG 3509 partially attenuated the wet dog shake behaviour, but methoxamine produced marked hindlimb jerking which might physiologically antagonise wet-dog shakes. Concomitant administration of clonidine and CG 3509 potently reduced wet-dog shakes in a dose-related manner but did not significantly affect forepaw licking, while idazoxan did not significantly affect either response. The latter findings imply that alpha 2-adrenoceptors play different roles in modulating the two behavioural responses and the possible synaptic location of the receptors is discussed. Taken together these results suggest that CG 3509 may release noradrenaline from bulbospinal neurones regulating motor function.
Analogs of thyrotropin-releasing hormone: hypotheses relating receptor binding to net excitation of spinal lower motor neurons.	Experimentally and clinically, treatment with high-doses of TRH produces a net excitation of spinal lower motor neurons (LMNs) that is subsequently reduced or completely lost through continuous or repeated exposure to the peptide. This is operationally termed "autorefractoriness" (AR). We have performed biochemical and in vivo pharmacologic experiments to investigate the mechanism(s) of AR. Biochemically, we classified TRH and several analogs into three groups based on their binding by spinal-cord TRH-receptors (TRH-Rs): high-affinity, (low nanomolar range; MeTRH, TRH); intermediate-affinity (mid-nanomolar range; MK-771, RX77368) or low-affinity (micromolar range; DN-1417, PNP). When tested in vivo for LMN excitatory activity in cordotomized (T8) rats, TRH and MK-771 produced rapid-onset excitation followed AR. In contrast, sustained excitation with much less AR was produced by the low affinity analog DN-1417. Based on these results, we have formulated two receptor-based hypotheses to explain AR: a) rapid TRH-R desensitization (conversion to an inactive form) by high- but not low-affinity TRH-analogs; and b) a slower down-regulation (cellular internalization) of the agonist-receptor complex, most evident with high-affinity agonists. Thus, low-rather than high-affinity TRH-analogs may be superior to TRH for providing sustained LMN excitation (increase of strength) in motor neuron degenerative disorders.
Lack of usefulness of DN-1417 for characterization of a CNS receptor for thyrotropin-releasing hormone.	CNS receptors for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and its analogs are likely to mediate the experimentally and clinically observed net excitatory effect of these peptides on lower motor neurons. Previous findings suggest that several types of TRH receptors with distinct TRH analog specificities may be present in rat CNS. In particular, based on competition isotherm assays with unlabeled analog gamma-butyrolactone-gamma-carbonyl-L-histidyl-L-prolineamide (DN-1417). Funatsu et al. claim the existence of a limbic forebrain site that binds this peptide and TRH with high affinity but that does not bind [3-methyl-histidyl2]-TRH (MeTRH). Using saturation and competition isotherm experiments, we have examined the binding of [3H]TRH and [3H]DN-1417 in three regions of rat CNS: pyriform cortex/amygdala, limbic forebrain, and lumbosacral spinal cord. In all three regions, saturation assays with [3H]TRH (0.4-100 nM) resolved only a single, saturable receptor with high affinity (KD = 12-14 nM) for TRH; in no case could more than one saturable site be identified. When [3H]DN-1417 was substituted as the assay ligand, no high-affinity binding component for this analog could be detected in the three regions. Competition curves for the binding of unlabeled DN-1417 to limbic forebrain and lumbosacral spinal cord ([3H]TRH as assay ligand) were monophasic (not biphasic like those of Funatsu et al.) and indicative of low-affinity binding of DN-1417 in these regions (Ki values = 2-3 microM; in agreement with values obtained in similar assays with [3H]MeTRH).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of thyrotropin releasing hormone and some of its histidine analogs on the cardiovascular system and prolactin release in the conscious rat.	The cardiovascular and endocrine activity of three analogs of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), 4-nitro-imidazole TRH (4-nitro-TRH), 2-trifluoro-methyl-imidazole TRH (2-TFM-TRH) and 4-trifluoro-methyl-imidazole TRH (4-TFM-TRH), was compared to TRH in conscious rats. Injection of TRH or the three analogs (1 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg) into the arterial line induced increases in mean arterial pressure, pulse pressure and heart rate and raised plasma prolactin (PRL). None of the analogs were more potent than TRH in inducing cardiovascular changes. The 4-TFM-TRH was significantly less potent than the 2-TFM-TRH in increasing blood pressure, while the nitro-TRH was more potent than the 2-TFM-TRH in producing tachycardia. TRH induced a two-fold increase in PRL at the 5 mg/kg dose, while both the fluorinated analogs elicited a 4 to 5 fold increase in PRL at the higher dose. The present results suggest that the receptors for TRH-elicited PRL release differ from TRH-receptors involved in its cardiovascular actions.
Further studies on the effects of a thyrotropin releasing hormone analogue on locomotor activity in the rat.	In these experiments, the relationship between two of the variables of locomotion, stepping frequency and velocity, after injection of the TRH analogue RX77368 (10 mg/Kg i.p.), has been studied. A shift towards higher stepping frequencies was observed, confirming previous observations. However, there was no difference between the velocities of locomotion produced by treated and control rats. In the treated rats the relationship between stepping frequency and velocity was disturbed, such that a higher stepping frequency was employed to attain any particular velocity. This was accompanied by a reduction in stride length. Possible reasons for this disturbance are discussed in terms of changes in muscle stiffness and proprioceptive reflexes.
Central nervous system action of TRH to stimulate gastric emptying in rats.	The effects of intracisternal injection of TRH on gastric emptying of a liquid meal was investigated in 24 h fasted rats using the phenol red method. Intracisternal injection of TRH, RX 77368, or [N-Val2]-TRH, an analog devoid of TSH-releasing activity, 5 min prior to a meal, stimulated gastric emptying measured 20 min later. TRH action was dose dependent (1-100 ng), and rapid in onset. The calculated time for emptying half of the meal was decreased from 16 +/- 3 min (control group) to 4 +/- 1 min (TRH 30 ng). The stable analog, RX 77368, unlike TRH, stimulated gastric emptying when the meal was given 60 min after peptide injection. Intravenous injection of atropine (2.5 micrograms) inhibited and that of carbachol (1 microgram) stimulated gastric emptying whereas i.v. injection of TRH (0.1-1 microgram) had no effect. Vagotomy but not adrenalectomy reversed the increase in gastric emptying induced by intracisternal TRH. Atropine blocked the stimulatory effect of TRH and carbachol. These results demonstrate that TRH acts within the brain to stimulate gastric emptying through vagus-dependent and cholinergic pathways whereas alterations of adrenal and pituitary-thyroid secretion do not play an important role.
Thyroid hormone modulation of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) and TRH-Gly levels in the male rat reproductive system.	Thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) occurs in high concentrations in the rat ventral prostate and its concentrations is regulated in a positive dose-response manner by testosterone in castrated rats. alpha-Amidation of the tetrapeptide precursor, TRH-Gly, is a rate-limiting step in TRH biosynthesis. To investigate further the hormonal regulation of TRH biosynthesis in prostatic tissue, Sprague-Dawley rats of approximately 250 g were injected s.c. with either physiological saline or 3 mg propylthiouracil (PTU) daily for 5 days. The reproductive tissues were boiled in acetic acid (l mol/l), dried and extracted with methanol. The methanol extracts were measured for TRH immunoreactivity (TRH-IR) and TRH-Gly-IR by radioimmunoassay. Hypothyroidism induced by PTU significantly increased TRH-IR and TRH-Gly-IR levels in prostate and testis and reduced these levels in epididymis but did not affect the serum concentrations of testosterone compared with those of controls. Corresponding changes in TRH and TRH-Gly in the rat prostate were established by high-pressure liquid chromatography. To control for possible pharmacological effects of PTU on TRH biosynthesis, additional experiments were carried out on castrated rats receiving testosterone replacement and treatment with PTU plus methimazole. Treatment with thyroxine (T4) significantly reduced the increase in prostatic TRH levels due to hypothyroidism, despite the drug-induced blockade of the conversion of T4 to tri-iodothyronine. These effects parallel similar observations made in rat spinal cord and pancreas. This study demonstrates that in the male rat reproductive system the levels of TRH and its immediate biosynthetic precursor, TRH-Gly, are regulated by thyroid hormones.
Dissociation of the cardiovascular and prolactin-releasing activities of norvaline2-TRH.	The effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and norvaline2-TRH (Nva2-TRH) on blood pressure, heart rate and plasma prolactin levels in conscious rats have been compared. Systemic injection of TRH or Nva2-TRH (1 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg) produced equipotent increases in plasma prolactin. On the other hand, while TRH significantly increases blood pressure and heart rate, Nva2-TRH was essentially inactive. Thus, two contrasting analogues are now available: 4-NO2-Im-TRH (Neuropeptides, 8, 63, 1986) has full cardiovascular activity and no PRL-releasing activity, while Nva2-TRH has no cardiovascular activity and full PRL-releasing activity of TRH.
Antinociceptive activity of TRH metabolites in the mouse.	The antinociceptive action of the 2 main metabolites of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), pyroglutamyl-histidyl-proline (TRH-OH) and histidyl-proline-diketopiperazine or cyclo(His-Pro), were studied using mechanical (Haffner's test) and chemical (phenyl-p-benzoquinone writhing test) stimuli. TRH has previously been shown to be active against both these stimuli. TRH-OH showed an antinociceptive action against both stimuli, while cyclo(His-Pro) had a dose-dependent effect only against a mechanical stimulus. Both metabolites of TRH were less effective than TRH. The antinociception induced by TRH does not appear to depend on the biotransformation of TRH to its metabolites since they are less active than TRH itself.
Controlled acute trial of a thyrotrophin releasing hormone analogue (RX77368) in motor neuron disease.	Twenty five patients with motor neuron disease completed a double blind randomised cross over trial of RX77368, a stabilised TRH analogue, iv over 2 hours against saline. Temporary improvement in bulbar symptoms including speech, respiratory parameters, tongue movements and swallowing were seen. Fasciculations increased and spasticity decreased. Change in muscle force with drug was different from placebo but both increase and decrease in force were seen and did not result in detectable changes in function. Side effects were clinically significant in 50% of the patients and cleared within 12 hours. Prolonged rise of thyroxine and an increase in plasma levels of prolactin, thyroid stimulating hormone and growth hormone were seen and followed characteristic patterns.
The effects of TRH analogues on cerebral ischaemia produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat.	This study examined the effects of two stabilised analogues of TRH, RX 77368 and CG 3509, in a rat cerebral ischaemia model produced by unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. The analogues were given intraventricularly after artery occlusion. The extent of the cortical ischaemia was evaluated after 10 days by somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) recording, followed by tetrazolium staining of brain slices for NADH-diaphorase activity. RX 77368 (2 X 10 micrograms; 15 min, 24 h) significantly improved the survival rate, protected the SEP and reduced the area of infarct. In contrast, neither a smaller dose of RX 77368 (2 X 3 micrograms) nor a 4 h delay in the treatment had any significant beneficial effects. Although CG 3509 (2 X 10 micrograms) resulted in an apparent improvement in survival, its overall effects were not statistically significant. The findings indicate that stabilised TRH analogues may have beneficial effects when given to animals with focal cerebral ischaemia.
Corticotropin-releasing factor acts centrally to suppress stimulated gastric contractility in the rat.	The effects of intracisternal (i.c.) and intravenous (i.v.) administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) on gastric contractility stimulated by i.c. injection of the TRH analog RX77368 [p-Glu-His-(3,3'-dimethyl)-Pro-NH2], 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) and i.v. infusion of carbachol were evaluated in rats under urethane anesthesia. Gastric contractility was monitored using acutely implanted extraluminal force transducers sutured to the corpus of the stomach. I.c. injection of CRF (6.3-210 pmol) resulted in a dose dependent suppression of gastric contractility stimulated by RX77368 (260 pmol) and 2DG (6 mg). Gastric inhibitory response to i.c. CRF was rapid in onset and lasted at least 45 min. Carbachol (200 mg/kg/h)-induced stimulation of gastric contractility was not modified by i.c. injection of CRF. The stimulation of contractility caused by both i.v. carbachol and i.c. 2DG were completely inhibited by atropine (1 mg/kg, i.v.). CRF (210 pmol) given i.v. suppressed RX77368-stimulated gastric contractions, but was less than 1/10 as potent as administered i.c. I.v. CRF (210 pmol) did not alter 2DG- or carbachol-induced gastric contractions. These results demonstrate that the i.c. administration of CRF acts within the brain to inhibit gastric contractility elicited by vagus-dependent mechanisms.
Immunological and biological characteristics of a new TRF analogue, L-pyroglutamyl-L-histidyl-L-pipecolic acid amide.	The immunological and biological potencies of a new synthetic TRF analogue, L-pyroglutamyl-L-histidyl-L-pipecolic acid amide, were compared with those of TRF. In a radioimmunoassay system for TRF, parallel inhibition curves were obtained with TRF and the analogue, the immunological potency of the latter being approximately 50 per cent of the former. In vitro and in vivo TSH-releasing activities of the analogue were almost equal to those of TRF. As was observed with TRF, the in vitro TSH-releasing effect of the analogue was reduced in the presence of T4, and the analogue was inactivated by incubation with rat serum. The data suggest that the pyrrolidine ring of TRF can be replaced with piperidine ring without significant loss of the biological activity.
Studies on the neuropharmacology of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and a new TRH analog.	TRH and a new TRH analog (all L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-histidyl-thiazolidine-4-carboxamide, MK-771) have been compared with several other peptides for their "analeptic" activity and their ability to enhance the excitatory actions of microiontophoretically applied acetylcholine (ACh) on cerebral cortical neurons of rats. TRH and MK-771 offset the narcosis induced by pentobarbital in mice, whereas the C-terminal free acid derived from TRH, melanostatin, somatostatin and pyroglutamyl-histidineamide have been found inactive. Similarly, of these peptides only TRH and MK-771 induced a tremor of the forepaws in pentobarbital-anesthetized mice. Employing comparable ejection currents and durations, only TRH and MK-771, applied by microiontophoresis, enhanced the excitatory actions of ACh on spontaneously active cortical neurons in anesthetized rats. Based on these findings and other recent data, it is suggested that the interactions of TRH and MK-771 with cholinergic mechanisms may underlie some of the actions, including their anti-anesthetic effects, of these peptides.
Interactions of thyrotropin releasing hormone, its metabolites and analogues with endogenous and exogenous opiates.	The interactions of thyrotropin releasing hormone, its metabolites and synthetic analogues with acute and chronic effects of endogenous and exogenous opiates have been described. The endogenous and exogenous opiates are represented by beta-endorphin and morphine, respectively. The pharmacological effects of opiates include analgesia, temperature effects, respiratory depression, catalepsy, locomotor activity, opiate receptor binding, tolerance, and physical dependence. Thyrotropin releasing hormone and related compounds appear to (a) antagonize hypothermia, respiratory depression, locomotor depression and catalepsy but not the analgesia induced by opiates, (b) inhibit the development of tolerance to the analgesic effect but not to the hypothermic effect of opiates, (c) inhibit the development of physical dependence on opiates as evidenced by the inhibition of development of certain withdrawal symptoms, and (d) suppress the abstinence syndrome in opiate dependent rodents. Thyrotropin releasing hormone does not interact with the opiate receptors in the brain. Potential therapeutic applications of thyrotropin releasing hormone and its synthetic analogues in counteracting some of the undesirable effects of opiates are discussed.
Micromolar substance P reduces spinal receptor binding for thyrotropin-releasing hormone--possible relevance to neuropeptide coexistence?	Receptors for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on membranes of rat spinal cord (SC) were labeled with [3H](3-Me-His2)TRH ([3H]MeTRH) (dissociation constant = 3.6 +/- 0.8 (6) nM). Substance P (SP) caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of TRH receptor binding in the micromolar range (43 +/- 4 (6)% at 50 microM). Scatchard analyses of competition data revealed that 50 microM SP reduced TRH receptor number (40-66%, P less than 0.05) with little or no effect on affinity. SP appeared more potent in reducing [3H]MeTRH binding to ventral cord membranes than those of dorsal or whole SC. A number of SP analogs also reduced TRH receptor binding in a dose-related manner but with different potencies. In contrast, various amino acids and serotonin (250 microM) produced little or no inhibition of [3H]MeTRH binding, and cholecystokinin, Leu- and Met-enkephalins, angiotensin II, LH-RH, bombesin and somatostatin were also markedly less potent than SP. Although it is unclear whether spinal TRH receptors are ever exposed to micromolar concentrations of SP in vivo, the reported colocalization of these neuropeptides in raphe efferents to the SC suggests that our findings may be of physiological relevance.
Binding sites for thyrotropin-releasing hormone in sheep nucleus accumbens resemble pituitary receptors.	TRH binds to sites in the nucleus accumbens-septal area of sheep brain. These sites appear to represent receptors for at least some of its behavioral effects in other species and are very similar to sheep pituitary receptors. All measurements were performed on ice to prevent peptide degradation. High affinity [3H]TRH binding in brain regions was distinguished from interfering low affinity binding by use of [3-Me-His2]TRH, a more potent and specific analog, in blank tubes at a 1-microM concentration. The nucleus accumbens-septal area, particularly the nucleus accumbens itself, showed the highest binding of any of a variety of brain regions surveyed. Binding sites in both nucleus accumbens and anterior pituitary had an equilibrium dissociation constant of about 20-40 nM, a rate constant for association of about 1-3 x 10(6) M-1 min-1, and a rate constant for dissociation of about 0.07 min-1. Seventeen TRH analogs showed closely similar potencies in competing for binding in the two tissues. Six weak analogs appeared to be more potent in the nucleus accumbens than in the pituitary, but this was an artifact of their relatively greater potency in competing for low affinity binding sites which are absent in pituitary. The only major difference between the high affinity binding sites in the two tissues was in their concentration, which was about 2- to 3-fold higher in the pituitary.
Inhibition by DN-1417 (a TRH derivative) of [3H]GABA binding in the rat brain.	The administration of DN-1417, a synthetic derivative of TRH with more potent central action, significantly reduced specific [3H]GABA binding in the cerebellum, whereas [3H]GABA binding in the cerebral cortex was not changed. Scatchard analysis showed that the decreased [3H]GABA binding in the cerebellum was due to decreased binding sites of both high and low affinities. [3H]GABA binding to brain synaptic membranes was not affected by the addition of either TRH or DN-1417 in vitro. These findings suggest that TRH may play a role in regulating GABA receptors in the rat cerebellum.
Effects of TRH-T and DN-1417 on the central nervous system: an electrophysiological study of arousal reaction and evoked muscular discharges.	For the purpose of elucidating the effects of TRH and DN-1417 on the CNS, electrophysiological experiments were performed and the following observed. 1. TRH and DN-1417 exerted threshold-decreasing action not only on the threshold for arousal reaction but also on the threshold for evoked muscular discharges, which occur on stimulation of the brainstem reticular formation. 2. The threshold decreasing effect of DN-1417 was stronger than that of TRH, not only for the arousal reaction but also for the evoked muscular discharges. 3. Both TRH and DN-1417, with facilitating effects on the brainstem reticular formation, increased the number of spontaneous unit discharges. DN-1417 increased the number of reticular units, to the same degree as TRH with a smaller dose. These results indicate that both TRH and DN-1417 act on the nerve cells in the brainstem reticular formation, awaken consciousness and facilitate the function of the motor system.
Effect of chronic treatment with thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) or an analog of TRH (linear beta-alanine TRH) on the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis.	The effects of treatment for 5 or 9 days with varying doses of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) or the linear beta-alanine TRH congener (pGlu-His-Pro-beta-Ala-NH2) on serum levels of TSH, T3, and T4 were studied in mice and rats. At low doses in rats treatment with TRH for 9 days significantly increased serum levels of T3 but not serum T4 whereas a higher dose of TRH (10 mg/kg) reduced serum T3 levels. beta-Ala TRH (0.1--10 mg/kg IP) treatment for 9 days in rats significantly reduced serum T4 levels whereas serum T3 levels were only depressed at higher doses (1--10 mg/kg IP) of the peptide. In mice treatment for 5 days with TRH (1 and 10 mg/kg IP) significantly reduced serum levels of T3 and T4. In addition, TRH (0.1--10 mg/kg IP) or beta-Ala TRH treatment (1.0--10 mg/kg IP) for 9 days significantly reduced serum TSH levels in rats. TRH (10 mg/kg IP for 9 days) also significantly reduced serum GH levels in rats. No alteration in hypothalamic content of TRH and LHRH was observed after chronic TRH treatment. Some, but not all, of our findings support the hypothesis that treatment with high doses of TRH reduce pituitary-thyroid axis functions by a direct effect on hypophysial TRH receptors.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and thyrotropin-releasing hormone induction of female sexual receptivity in the lizard, Anolis carolinensis.	Both luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) induce sexual receptivity in ovariectomized, estrogen-primed female lizards (Anolis carolinensis). Ovariectomized females pretreated with three daily injections of a subthreshold dose (0.2 micrograms) of estradiol benzoate were administered either 500, 1,000 or 1,500 ng of LHRH, or 1,000 ng of TRH 48 h following the last estrogen pretreatment injection. Hormone-treated females exhibited significantly higher sexual receptivity scores than controls when tested 2, 4, 6 and 24 h post-injection. Female sexual receptivity scores in females that were administered 500 ng of LHRH or 1,000 ng of deamido TRH were, however, no different than control scores at these test times. The observed ability of LHRH to increase female sexual receptivity is consistent with previous results in birds and mammals. The ability of TRH to increase female sexual receptivity is a novel finding that may underscore differences in neuroendocrine regulation of vertebrate estrous behavior.
The electrophoretic mobility of tripeptides as a function of pH and ionic strength: comparison with iontophoretic flux data.	Capillary electrophoresis (CE) is an extremely efficient separations tool which can also be used to determine fundamental molecular parameters, e.g., the electrophoretic mobility of a molecule. We have studied the changes in the CE estimated electrophoretic mobility of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) as a function of pH and ionic strength. Further, we have used CE to estimate the mobilities of two synthetic analogs of TRH to examine the behavior of positive (basic) and negative (acidic) peptides under the conditions of this work. These data were then compared with literature values of iontophoretic flux of these molecules under similar formulation conditions. Our results suggest that CE could potentially assist formulation optimization for the iontophoretic delivery of peptides.
Intestinal absorption of azetirelin, a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue. II. In situ and in vitro absorption characteristics of azetirelin from the rat intestine.	Intestinal absorption characteristics of azetirelin, a new thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue, were studied in rats by means of in situ closed loop and in vitro everted sac experiments. Plasma concentrations of azetirelin obtained in the in situ closed loop experiments were not significantly different among the intestinal segments. Area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of azetirelin following administration into the duodenal loop increased in proportion to the dose. The serosal to mucosal concentration ratio of the analogue in the everted sac experiment was constant over the mucosal drug concentration range of 0.01-10 mM. There was no directional difference in the transfer rate of azetirelin across the everted and non-everted sacs of the duodenum. Furthermore, its transport across the duodenum was not influenced by low incubation temperature (25 degrees C), addition of dipeptide (Gly-Gly), or pretreatment of the mucosal surface with 2,4-dinitrophenol, while that of TRH was inhibited under these conditions. These results suggest that the intestinal absorption mechanism of azetirelin is different from that of TRH, and that azetirelin is predominantly transported via a passive diffusion.
Pro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone processing by recombinant PC1.	Pro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone (proTRH) is the precursor to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH; pGlu-His-Pro-NH2), the hypothalamic releasing factor that stimulates synthesis and release of thyrotropin from the pituitary gland. Five copies of the TRH progenitor sequence (Gln-His-Pro-Gly) and seven cryptic peptides are formed following posttranslational proteolytic cleavage of the 26-kDa rat proTRH precursor. The endopeptidase(s) responsible for the physiological conversion of proTRH to the TRH progenitor form is currently unknown. We examined the in vitro processing of [3H]leucine-labeled or unlabeled proTRH by partially purified recombinant PC1. Recombinant PC1 processed the 26-kDa TRH precursor by initially cleaving the prohormone after the basic amino acid at either position 153 or 159. Based on the use of our well-established antibodies, we propose that the initial cleavage gave rise to the formation of a 15-kDa N-terminal peptide (preproTRH25-152 or pre-proTRH25-158) and a 10-kDa C-terminal peptide (pre-proTRH154-255 or preproTRH160-255). Some initial cleavage occurred after amino acid 108 to generate a 16.5-kDa C-terminal peptide. The 15-kDa N-terminal intermediate was further processed to a 6-kDa peptide (prepro-TRH25-76 or preproTRH25-82) and a 3.8-kDa peptide (preproTRH83-108), whereas the 10-kDa C-terminal intermediate was processed to a 5.4-kDa peptide (prepro-TRH206-255). The optimal pH for these cleavages was 5.5. ZnCl2, EDTA, EGTA, and the omission of Ca2+ inhibited the formation of pYE27 (preproTRH25-50), one of the proTRH N-terminal products, by 48, 82, 72, and 45%, respectively. This study provides evidence, for the first time, that recombinant PC 1 enzyme can process proTRH to its predicted peptide intermediates.
Analogs of thyrotropin-releasing hormone in potentiating the spinal monosynaptic reflex in vitro.	The efficacy of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and its analogs to potentiate the spinal monosynaptic reflex was studied in isolated cords. The analogs examined were L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-histidyl-thizolidine-4-carboxyamide (MK-771); pyroglutamyl-histidyl-prolineamide (TRH); pyroglutamyl-L-histidyl-3,3'-dimethyl-prolineamide (RX77368); (3-methyl-His2)TRH(methyl-TRH); gamma-buturolactone-gamma-carbonyl-histidyl-prolineamide citrate (DN-1417); pyroglutamyl-histidyl-proline (TRH-free acid); and histidyl-proline-diketopiperazine (cyclo(His-Pro)). The TRH analogs potentiated the monosynaptic reflex in a dose-dependent manner and the maximal potentiation occurred at about 1 microM. TRH-free acid potentiated the monosynaptic reflex but the maximal potentiation occurred at 100 times the TRH concentration. Cyclo(His-Pro) was totally ineffective. The concentration required to potentiate the monosynaptic reflex by 50% of the maximal response (EC50) was taken as an index for comparing various analogs in relation to TRH. The EC50 values of the analogs did not differ significantly from each other. However, the ratio of the mean value of an analog to that of TRH was of the following order: MK-771 (N- and C-terminally altered) > or = TRH > or = DN-1417 (N-terminal) > or = methyl-TRH > or = RX77368 (C-terminal) >>> TRH-free acid. Cyclo(His-Pro) was ineffective.
pGlutamylglutamylprolineamide modulation of growth hormone secretion in domestic fowl: antagonism of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone action?	Pyroglutamyglutamylprolineamide (pGlu-Glu-ProNH2) is a tripeptide with structural and immunological similarities to thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH; pGlu-His-ProNH2). Since TRH stimulates GH secretion in domestic fowl, the possibility that pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 may also provoke GH release was investigated. Unlike TRH, pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 alone had no effect on GH release from incubated chicken pituitary glands and did not down-regulate pituitary TRH receptors. However, pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 suppressed TRH-induced GH release from pituitary glands incubated in vitro and competitively displaced [3H]methyl3-histidine2-TRH from pituitary membranes. Systemic injections of pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 had no significant effect on basal GH concentrations in conscious birds, but promptly lowered circulating GH levels in sodium-pentobarbitone anaesthetized fowl. Submaximal GH responses of conscious and anaesthetized birds to systemic TRH challenge were, however, potentiated by prior or concomitant administration of pGlu-Glu-ProNH2. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 has biological activity, with inhibitory and stimulatory actions within the avian hypothalamo-pituitary axis. These results indicate that pGlu-Glu-ProNH2 may act as a TRH receptor antagonist within this axis.
Neural differentiation of the human neuroblastoma cell line IMR32 induces production of a thyrotropin-releasing hormone-like peptide.	The human neuroblastoma cell line IMR32 produces and secretes substantial amounts of TRH-immunoreactivity (TRH-IR) as measured with radioimmunoassay (RIA) using the nonspecific antiserum 4319. It was found that synthesis of TRH-IR is dependent on neural differentiation: under serum-free conditions these cells exhibit neural characteristics as defined by morphological and biochemical standards. After culture for 2-5 days in serum-free medium cells grew large neural processes and expressed neuron-specific markers whereas glial-specific markers were absent. TRH-IR became detectable after 4-8 days serum-free conditions. Northern blot and chromatographic analysis, however, failed to detect proTRH mRNA and authentic TRH in these cells. Moreover, TRH-IR was undetectable in the RIA using TRH-specific antiserum 8880. TRH-IR produced by differentiated cells was retained on a QAE Sephadex A-25 anion-exchange column and thus negatively charged. HPLC analysis showed coelution with the synthetic peptide pGlu-Glu-ProNH2. Study of the mechanisms regulating production of this novel peptide in these cells should further elucidate the role differentiation plays in the synthesis of neuropeptides.
Effects of dexamethasone on TRH, TRH-glycine and pre-pro-TRH (178-199) levels in various rat organs.	The effect of dexamethasone administration on the concentration of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and pre-pro-TRH connecting peptides TRH-glycine (TRH-Gly), and pre-pro-TRH (178-199) in various rat organs was studied. Three groups of 35 rats each were injected dexamethasone (Group A: 25 micrograms/100 g; Group B: 500 micrograms/100 g) or saline (Group C: control). The subgroups of 7 rats each were decapitated at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 24 h after the injection and the levels of TRH-Gly, pre-pro-TRH (178-199) and TRH in the hypothalamus, cerebrum, cerebellum and brain stem, stomach, retina were estimated by specific radioimmunoassays. The level of TRH-Gly and pre-pro-TRH (178-199) in the hypothalamus decreased significantly in groups A and B at 1-4 hours after the injection, and then returned to pretreatment levels at 24 h after the injection. In contrast, TRH levels in the hypothalamus increased significantly in groups A and B at 1-4 h after the injection. The TRH-Gly, pre-pro-TRH (178-199) and TRH levels in other organs showed no changes after dexamethasone injection. From these findings it is concluded that dexamethasone inhibits the synthesis and secretion of TRH and the maturation of pro-TRH in the hypothalamus, while its effects on other organs is different from the hypothalamus.
Modeling of acute spinal cord injury in the rat: neuroprotection and enhanced recovery with methylprednisolone, U-74006F and YM-14673.	We used a new injury device that produces consistent spinal cord contusion injuries (T8) in rats to compare the behavioral and histologic effects of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS) administration, the clinical standard of therapy after acute spinal cord injury (ASCI), with the 21-aminosteroid, U-74006F (U74), and the TRH analogue, YM-14673 (YM), at different trauma doses. Three sequential experiments were conducted: Experiment 1. U74 (3.0/1.5/1.5 mg/kg; 10/5/5 mg/kg; 30/15/15 mg/kg), MPSS (30/15/15 mg/kg), or vehicle were administered intravenously (i.v.) at 5 min, 2 and 6 h after the injury (n = 8/group). U74 (10/5/5 mg/kg) and MPSS animals scored better than controls (Days 8-43) in open field walking (OFW); no other differences were seen between groups. Experiment 2. Dose-response evaluation of MPSS determined more effective doses. Groups (n = 16) receiving 30/30/30/30 mg/kg and 60/60/60/60 mg/kg i.v. at 5 min and 2, 4, and 6 h after the injury had better OFW scores than controls (Days 8-29; Day 29). Both groups performed better than controls (Days 8-29) on inclined plane (IP); 30 mg/kg animals scored higher on Day 29. Percentage tissue spared (%TS) at the lesion center was greater for 60 mg/kg animals (23.4%) than controls (17.3%). Experiment 3. Compounds were administered as in experiment 2 (n = 15/group); MPSS (60/30/30/30 mg/kg) and YM (1/1/1/1 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg/day ip) were most effective. YM and MPSS combination produced no additive effects. YM animals scored better than MPSS and control animals in OFW (Days 8-29) and better than controls on IP (Days 8-29; Day 29) and grid walking (Day 29). MPSS animals scored better than controls on IP (Days 8-29). YM and MPSS groups had greater %TS than controls. This series of experiments demonstrates the utility of this injury model and simple behavioral measures for preclinical assessment of pharmacologic agents. Under these experimental conditions, U74 demonstrated equivalent efficacy to MPSS, and YM demonstrated greater efficacy than MPSS in the treatment of ASCI.
Stimulation of locomotion in neonate rats by TRH analogue CG3703.	Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and its analogues have been shown to depolarise motoneurons and stimulate cyclical motor activities such as respiration and locomotion. It has been suggested that one of its roles might be modulation of neuronal membrane excitability to release intrinsic rhythmicity. The present experiments were designed to determine whether it would initiate locomotion in the neonate rat prior to the development of spontaneous walking. It was found that the TRH analogue CG3703 did activate locomotion in 3-day-old rat pups. Quantification of various gait parameters and study of spatiotemporal footfall patterns showed the gait to be indistinguishable from the spontaneous locomotion of older pups. Possible loci of action are discussed.
The cardiovascular and subjective effects of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and a stable analogue, dimethyl proline-TRH, in healthy volunteers.	1. The cardiovascular effects of TRH 0.5 mg and 1 mg and a stable TRH analogue, dimethylproline-TRH (RX77368) 1 mg, infused intravenously over 1 min were assessed in healthy volunteers in two randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled crossover studies. 2. Both doses of TRH produced significant but transient increases in blood pressure (peak delta systolic: 0.5 mg = 9.2 mm Hg, 1.0 mg = 5.2 mm Hg; peak delta diastolic: 0.5 mg = 6.4 mm Hg, 1.0 mg = 5.4 mm Hg). 3. Beat-to-beat Finapres monitoring demonstrated a rapid onset of effects of RX77368 1 mg, with significant blood pressure effects by 45-60 s from the start of the infusion (delta systolic BP: 14.2 mm Hg, delta diastolic BP: 15.8 mm Hg and delta heart rate: 8.9 mm Hg at 60 s). 4. The pressor effects of RX77368 1 mg recorded by Dinamap (peak delta systolic: 14.3 mm Hg; peak delta diastolic: 11.8 mm Hg) were sustained, with diastolic pressure still elevated (delta diastolic: 8.2 mm Hg) at 60 min. Heart rate was more transiently elevated (peak delta heart rate: 9.0 beats min-1) during the first 6 min post infusion. 5. Mild apprehension was reported for the first 6 min after RX77368 1 mg, whereas paraesthesiae were noted after TRH. Otherwise both drugs were similar in the type (flushing, nausea, acid taste, urethral sensations) and duration of subjective effects.
A refined model of the thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) receptor binding pocket. Experimental analysis and energy minimization of the complex between TRH and TRH receptor.	Seven transmembrane (TM) spanning, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) appear to bind large glycoprotein hormones predominantly within their extracellular domains, small nonpeptidic ligands within the TM helical bundle, and peptide ligands within the extracellular domains and TM bundle. The tripeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH, pyroGlu-His-ProNH2) may bind entirely within the TM bundle of the TRH receptor (TRH-R). We have previously demonstrated direct binding contacts between the pyroGlu of TRH and two residues in TM helix 3 (TM-3) of TRH-R and proposed a model of the binding pocket of TRH-R [Perlman, J. H., Laakkonen, L., Osman, R., & Gershengorn, M. C. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 23383-23386]. Here, we provide evidence for two additional direct interactions between TRH and TRH-R. One interaction is between the aromatic ring of Tyr 282 of TM-6 and His of TRH. This is based on a large increase in the half-maximally effective concentration (EC50) of TRH for stimulation of inositol phosphate formation by Y282A TRH-R and a loss of selectivity of this mutant receptor for TRH analogs substituted at His. We provide evidence for another interaction between Arg 306 of TM-7 and the terminal carboxamide of TRH. Using four direct interactions as anchors, a refined model of the TRH-R binding pocket was constructed using geometry optimization through energy minimization. A novel method for modeling GPCRs based on Monte Carlo and stochastic dynamics simulations is presented in the accompanying paper [Laakkonen, L. J., Guarnieri, F., Perlman, J. H., Gershengorn, M. C., & Osman, R. (1996) Biochemistry 35, 7651-7663].
Effects of RGH 2202 on cognitive and motor behavior of the rat.	The behavioral activity of the thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue, L-6-ketopiperidine-2-carbonyl-leucyl-L-prolinamide (RGH 2202), has been studied in animal models of central neurotransmission disruption. In 24-month-old rats, repeated administration of the peptide (5 or 10 mg/kg/day, injected IP for 20 days) was followed by a facilitated acquisition of active avoidance behavior in the shuttle-box test and retention of passive avoidance reaction in a step-through passive avoidance task. Also, ambulation in an open field was increased and motor performance and co-ordination in the rotorod test was facilitated by the treatment. Scopolamine-induced amnesia was reverted by RGH 2202 in adult rats tested both in active and passive avoidance tasks. Cognitive deficits induced in rats by prenatal manipulation with methylazoxymethanol (MAM) were reduced in adulthood by repeated administration with RGH 2202. These results indicate that the TRH-analogue, RGH 2202 may improve cognitive and motor disturbances in aging or induced by central neurotransmission disruption. It is possible that the peptide is functioning, at least in part, by intervening with the central cholinergic neurotransmission.
Molecular cloning in the marmoset shows that semenogelin is not the precursor of the TRH-like peptide pGlu-Glu-Pro amide.	Two peptides with similar structures to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and pGlu-Phe-Pro amide, have been identified in human seminal fluid and it has been shown that one of these peptides, pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, has the ability to increase the capacitation of sperm cells, consistent with a role in fertility. In order to select a species in which there is a high degree of expression of the genes that code for 'TRH-like' peptides, we have determined the levels of these peptides in the prostate, pancreas and thyroid of a range of species including rat, rabbit, ox, marmoset, macaque and man. The peptides were extracted from the tissues and purified before determination by RIA with TRH antibody. In addition, trypsin digestion and TRH RIA was used to investigate the presence of N-extended forms. The highest concentrations of TRH-immunoreactive peptides were found in the tissues of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Ion-exchange chromatography demonstrated that marmoset thyroid contained principally authentic TRH, the pancreas contained both TRH and TRH-like peptides while the prostate contained TRH-like peptides alone. Further purification by HPLC showed that the main TRH-immunoreactive peptide in marmoset prostate was pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and a second component was identified as pGlu-Phe-Pro amide. The results indicate that the biosynthesis of these peptides could be studied to advantage in the marmoset. The biosynthetic precursors of the TRH-like peptides have not been identified. To examine whether pGlu-Glu-Pro amide might originate from semenogelin, we determined the sequence of semenogelin in the marmoset. It exhibited a high degree of homology with human semenogelin-I, but in place of the Lys-Gln-Glu-Pro sequence that might give rise to pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, marmoset semenogelin possessed the sequence Ser-Gln-Asp-Gln which cannot serve as a precursor for a TRH-like peptide. Further evidence was obtained by Northern blot analysis of a range of marmoset tissues. The results showed that semenogelin is not present in marmoset prostate. It is concluded that pGlu-Glu-Pro amide originates from a precursor distinct from semenogelin, both in marmoset and in man.
Radioimmunoassay for TA-0910, a new stable thyrotropin releasing hormone analogue and its metabolite, TA-0910 acid-type, in human plasma and urine.	Radioimmunoassay (RIA) was investigated for the determination of TA-0910 and its main metabolite, TA-0910 acid-type, in human plasma and urine. TA-0910 is a new metabolically stable analogue of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH). Antiserum was raised in the rabbit against the 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrophenyl derivative of TA-0910 or TA-0910 acid-type conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). The radioligand was prepared by iodination with 125I of the histidine imidazole ring of TA-0910 or TA-0910 acid-type. Cross-reactivities of anti-TA-0910 or TA-0910 acid-type antiserum for TA-0910, its metabolite and related compounds were low. The calibration range was 0.02-5 ng ml-1 using 100 microliters human plasma or urine. Inter-day variations of TA-0910 and TA-0910 acid-type assay in plasma were 3.5-15.5 and 1.8-9.4%, respectively. The variations of the assay in urine were the same as those in plasma. The recovery of TA-0910 and TA-0910 acid-type spiked in plasma or urine samples was approximately 100%. Furthermore, this method was applied to the determination of TA-0910 and TA-0910 acid-type in human plasma and urine samples, for the evaluation of the pharmacokinetics of TA-0910 in humans. From the results it was demonstrated that he developed RIA was useful for the determination of TA-0910 and TA-0910 acid-type in human plasma and urine, and was applicable to pharmacokinetic studies in humans.
Thyrotropin releasing hormone analogs: a building block approach to the construction of tetracyclic peptidomimetics.	A building block based approach was used to synthesize a pair of tetracyclic peptidomimetics that constrain all but one of the rotational degrees of freedom of the hypothalamic tripeptide hormone thyroliberin. One of the analogs bound to the thyroliberin endocrine receptor (TRH-R) with an affinity greater than that of an analog without constraints. The tetracyclic peptidomimetics were found to be partial agonists for the TRH-R receptor.
