The initial phase of fracture healing is specifically sensitive to mechanical conditions.	Interfragmentary movements affect the quality and quantity of callus formation. The mounting plane of monolateral external fixators may give direction to those movements. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the influence of the fixator mounting plane on the process of fracture healing. Identically configured fixators were mounted either medially or anteromedially on the tibiae of sheep. Interfragmentary movements and ground reaction forces were evaluated in vivo during a nine week period. Histomorphological and biomechanical parameters described the bone healing processes. Changing only the mounting plane led to a modification of interfragmentary movements in the initial healing phase. The difference in interfragmentary movements between the groups was only significant during the first post-operative period. However, these initial differences in mechanical conditions influenced callus tissue formation significantly. The group with the anteromedially mounted fixator, initially showing significantly more interfragmentary movements, ended up with a significantly smaller callus diameter and a significantly higher callus stiffness as a result of advanced fracture healing. This demonstrates that the initial phase of healing is sensitive to mechanical conditions and influences the course of healing. Therefore, initial mechanical stability of an osteosynthesis should be considered an important factor in clinical fracture treatment.
Enhancing mechanical strength during early fracture healing via shockwave treatment: an animal study.	This investigation aims to determine (1) whether shockwave treatment helps fracture healing and (2) whether the effect of shockwave treatment on fracture healing is dose dependent.
Anterior cruciate ligament injury versus tibial spine fracture in the skeletally immature knee: a comparison of skeletal maturation and notch width index.	Both midsubstance anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury and tibial spine avulsion fracture occur in the skeletally immature knee. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are differences in skeletal maturation or notch parameters between these two groups. A retrospective case-control study of 25 skeletally immature patients with tibial spine fractures compared with 25 age- and sex-matched skeletally immature patients with midsubstance ACL injuries was performed. Bone age and notch width index were determined from preoperative radiographs. There were no significant differences between the tibial spine fracture group and the ACL injury group with respect to skeletal maturation, comparing bone age to chronological age (-0.5 vs. -0.3 years; P = 0.617). The ACL injury group had narrower notch indices than the tibial spine fracture group (0.230 vs. 0.253; P = 0.020). Thus, in a comparison of age- and sex-matched skeletally immature patients, those with midsubstance ACL injuries had a significantly narrower notch index than those with tibial spine fractures. This association may account for some of the variation in injury patterns in the skeletally immature knee.
Ground reaction forces and bone parameters in females with tibial stress fracture.	Tibial stress fracture is a common overuse running injury that results from the interplay of repetitive mechanical loading and bone strength. This research project aimed to determine whether female runners with a history of tibial stress fracture (TSF) differ in ground reaction force (GRF) parameters during running, regional bone density, and tibial bone geometry from those who have never sustained a stress fracture (NSF).
Quantifying comminution as a measurement of severity of articular injury.	The severity of articular injury caused by a fracture of periarticular bone impacts patient prognosis. There currently are not good, objective methods for grading articular injury severity. Quantification of bone comminution from fracture image data, which has been possible in laboratory studies, may be a promising route. We show that tibial pilon fractures can be discriminated on the basis of de novo surface-apparent energy absorption.
External fixation versus locked intramedullary nailing in tibial shaft fractures: a prospective, randomised study of 78 patients.	We performed a prospective, randomised study to compare the Ex-fi-re external fixator (EF) with locked intramedullary (IM) nailing in tibial fractures. Only fractures without soft-tissue problems of importance were included.
Problems of operative and non-operative treatment and healing in tibial fractures.	Based on the experience of the department of pediatric surgery at the Strasbourg University Hospital, the authors present indications and limitations of various treatment techniques for tibial shaft fractures in children. Two retrospective series are reported on: one group of patients treated with the Sarmiento technique and one group of patients treated with Elastic Stable Intramedullary Nailing (ESIN or Métaizeau technique). The main problem in treatment is restoration of the mechanical axis of the tibia, especially in isolated fractures treated conservatively. Residual varus deformity is frequent, although it is usually within an acceptable range. ESIN has given better results than conservative treatment in this specific case, but valgus malunion shave been noticed when both bones were fractured, due to insufficient bending of the medial nail. ESIN is perfectly suited for treating polytrauma patients,especially those with multi level or open fractures (Gustilo 1 or 2), as it makes monitoring and nursing easier. Treatment of tibia fractures in children remains principally conservative. ESIN is indicated in cases of failure of conservative treatment, especially in isolated tibia fractures or polytrauma patients. For high grade open fractures (Gustilo 3)or extended comminuted fractures, external fixation remains the gold standard.
Complications and failures of the ESIN technique.	Only knowledge of the possible failures and complications of a method allows its correct application. This also applies to ESIN (Elastic Stable Intramedullary Nailing), which has been promoted as a simple procedure. Most failures occur through neglect of the important biomechanical principles, and by obvious technical errors. The combination of both causes of failure can lead to serious complications in this method, which is generally regarded as "benign". These complications include serious rotational deformity, leg shortening, and growth disorders from growth plate injuries. A fundamental distinction must be made between intraoperative and postoperative problems and true complications. The present paper is intended to contribute towards avoiding such errors and detecting errors as early as possible during surgery in order to correct them.
Preliminary results of tibial bone transports with pulsed low intensity ultrasound (Exogen).	This study assessed whether the use of noninvasive, pulsed low intensity ultrasound (Exogen) reduced external fixation time for bone transport patients with large, segmental tibial defects.
Intact fibula improves fracture healing in a rat tibia osteotomy model.	Rat tibia fractures are often used in fracture healing studies. Usually the fracture is stabilized with an intramedullary pin, which provides bending stiffness, but little torsional stiffness. The objective of this research was to determine the in vitro torsional rigidity of an osteotomized tibia with and without the fibula, and to determine if this difference influences the healing process in vivo. In vitro eleven rat tibias received an osteotomy, were stabilized with an intramedullary pin, and were tested in internal rotation to determine the torsional rigidity. The fibula was then manually broken and the torsional rigidity measured again. In vivo 18 rats received a tibial osteotomy, eight of which had an additional fractured fibula. After three weeks, the rats were sacrificed and the tibias were analyzed. Bone density in the fracture callus was measured with qCT. Bending rigidity and maximum breaking moment were determined in three-point bending. In vitro testing demonstrated that the torsional rigidity with an intact fibula was nearly two times higher than when the fibula was fractured. Though the torsional rigidity was still small in comparison with an intact bone, it resulted in a significantly different healing process in vivo. Rats with intact fibulas had significantly higher bone mineral density, bending rigidity, and maximum breaking moment compared to rats with a fractured fibula. These results indicate that torsional stability considerably affects the healing process. In a fracture model, it is critical to characterize the mechanical environment of the fracture.
Locked nailing for nonunion of the tibia.	We treated 24 patients with nonunion of tibial shaft fractures by locked intramedullary nailing, 18 by open and six by closed techniques. Union was achieved in 22 patients, failing only in two patients with active infection. Locked nailing prevented recurrence of deformity and allowed the patients to mobilise without external support. Supplementary bone grafting was essential only for major defects.
Orthopedic pitfalls in the ED: tibial plafond fractures.	Fractures of the tibial plafond, or distal tibial articular surface, are usually associated with a high-force mechanism, which frequently can involve associated injuries and prolonged disability. Because of distracting injury and variations in clinical findings, tibial plafond fractures may be initially missed or misdiagnosed. This review examines the clinical presentation, diagnostic techniques, and management of tibial plafond fractures applicable to the emergency practitioner.
First histological observations on the incorporation of a novel nanocrystalline hydroxyapatite paste OSTIM in human cancellous bone.	A commercially available nanocrystalline hydroxyapatite paste Ostim has been reported in few recent studies to surpass other synthetic bone substitutes with respect to the observed clinical results. However, the integration of this implantable material has been histologically evaluated only in animal experimental models up to now. This study aimed to evaluate the tissue incorporation of Ostim in human cancellous bone after reconstructive bone surgery for trauma.
Plating treatment for tibial plateau fractures: a biomechanical comparison of buttress and tension band positions.	The load tolerance of conventional plate treatment for bicondylar tibial plateau fractures with the buttress and the tension band positions was compared from biomechanical viewpoints.
Functional outcomes of severe bicondylar tibial plateau fractures treated with dual incisions and medial and lateral plates.	Plate fixation of comminuted bicondylar tibial plateau fractures remains controversial. This retrospective study was performed to evaluate the perioperative results and functional outcomes of medial and lateral plate stabilization, through anterolateral and posteromedial surgical approaches, of comminuted bicondylar tibial plateau fractures.
Mobilization of endothelial precursor cells: systemic vascular response to musculoskeletal trauma.	Postnatal vasculogenesis, the process by which vascular committed bone marrow stem cells or endothelial precursor cells (EPC) migrate, differentiate, and incorporate into the nacent endothelium contributing to physiological and pathological neovascularization, has stimulated much interest. Its contribution to tumor nonvascularization, wound healing, and revascularization associated with skeletal and cardiac muscles ischaemia is established. We evaluated the mobilization of EPCs in response to musculoskeletal trauma. Blood from patients (n = 15) following AO type 42a1 closed diaphyseal tibial fractures was analyzed for CD34 and AC133 cell surface marker expression. Immunomagnetically enriched CD34+ mononuclear cell (MNC(CD34+)) populations were cultured and examined for phenotypic and functional vascular endothelial differentiation. Circulating MNC(CD34+) levels increased sevenfold by day 3 postinjury. Circulating MNC(AC133+) increased 2.5-fold. Enriched MNC(CD34+) populations from day 3 samples in culture exhibited cell cluster formation with sprouting spindles. These cells bound UEA-1 and incorporated fluorescent DiI-Ac-LDL intracellularily. Our findings suggest a systemic provascular response is initiated in response to musculoskeletal trauma. Its therapeutic manipulation may have implications for the potential enhancement of fracture healing.
Ischemia leads to delayed union during fracture healing: a mouse model.	Vascular damage accompanying skeletal injury leads to an ischemic environment, and in clinical settings the extent of vascular damage is directly correlated with failure of skeletal repair. However, the exact mechanism(s) underlying ischemia-related defects in bone healing are not well understood. To better understand the mechanism and to facilitate development of novel interventions to treat ischemic fractures, a mouse model of long bone fracture healing in an ischemic environment was created. Ischemia was induced by femoral artery resection prior to tibia fracture. Fractures were left unstabilized or were stabilized with custom-designed external fixators. Animals with intact femoral vessels served as controls. Tissues from non-stabilized fractures were analyzed at various times from 3 to 28 days after injury (n = 5/time point). Femoral artery resection severely impaired blood supply to the fractured limbs, and perfusion to the fracture sites did not recover until 14 days post-injury. Ischemia significantly decreased the callus size (p < 0.05), and decreased bone (p < 0.05) and cartilage (p < 0.05) matrix production during healing of non-stabilized fracture. The decreased formation of skeletal tissues in ischemic limbs was accompanied by decreased cell proliferation and increased apoptosis at early time points, and increased fibrous and fatty tissues adjacent to the fracture site during the third and fourth week after injury. These alterations led to a delayed-union. Complete fracture healing was not achieved in the majority (day 21 = 4/5; day 28 = 5/5) of ischemic animals, while all control mice (n = 5/5) had evidence of bony bridging by day 21. The ratio of cartilage to bone was similar in ischemic and control limbs at days 7 and 10 in non-stabilized fractures. In stabilized fractures, which healed through direct bone formation in the nonischemic controls, ischemia decreased the amount of bone formation at days 10 and 14 (n = 5/time point) but did not induce cartilage formation. These data reveal that an ischemic insult in the hind limb prior to fracture leads to a delayed union or a nonunion, but does not favor formation of cartilage over bone. This model will be useful for testing novel therapeutic regimens to stimulate fracture healing.
Fracture healing assessment comparing stiffness measurements using radiographs.	Based on published reports, we presumed radiographs would be unreliable as a sole measure of fracture healing. To confirm this presumption we correlated radiographic fracture healing assessments with fracture stiffness measurements. We showed 100 plain radiographs of fractures with corresponding fracture stiffness measurements to 92 observers. The radiographs were shown twice to assess intraobserver variation. Observers were divided into three groups and asked to determine whether each fracture had healed (union corresponded to a fracture stiffness greater than 15 nm/degrees). Group 1 based fracture healing on the general appearance of healing. Groups 2 and 3 assessed fracture healing based on the number of cortices bridged by callus. In Group 2, the fracture was considered healed if two or more cortices were bridged on both radiographic views and in Group 3 if three or more cortices were bridged by callus. All groups performed poorly. There was no difference in terms of correct prediction of healing between methods, although there was a trend toward more reliability with cortical callus bridging assessment. We found substantial intraobserver variability, which improved using cortical bridging methods. Observers were less reliable at predicting healing when there was a metaphyseal extension to a diaphyseal fracture.
External fixation of tibial pilon fractures and fracture healing.	Distal tibial fractures are rare and difficult to treat because the bones are subcutaneous. External fixation is commonly used, but the method often results in delayed union. The aim of the present study was to find out the factors that affect fracture union in tibial pilon fractures. For this purpose, prospective data collection of tibial pilon fractures was carried out in 1998-2004, resulting in 159 fractures, of which 83 were treated with external fixation. Additionally, 23 open tibial fractures with significant > 3 cm bone defect that were treated with a staged method in 2000-2004 were retrospectively evaluated. The specific questions to be answered were: What are the risk factors for delayed union associated with two-ring hybrid external fixation? Does human recombinant BMP-7 accelerate healing? What is the role of temporary ankle-spanning external fixation? What is the healing potential of distal tibial bone loss treated with a staged method using antibiotic beads and subsequent autogenous cancellous grafting compared to other locations of the tibia? The following risk factors for delayed healing after external fixation were identified: post-reduction fracture gap of >3 mm and fixation of the associated fibula fracture. Fracture displacement could be better controlled with initial temporary external fixation than with early definitive fixation, but it had no significant effect on healing time, functional outcome or complication rate. Osteoinduction with rhBMP-7 was found to accelerate fracture healing and to shorten the sick leave. A staged method using antibiotic beads and subsequent autogenous cancellous grafting proved to be effective in the treatment of tibial bone loss. Healing potential of the bone loss in distal tibia was at least equally good as in other locations of the tibia.
A novel finite element method based biomechanical model for HIT-Robot Assisted Orthopedic Surgery System.	To build a biomechanical human model can make much sense for surgical training and surgical rehearse. Especially, it will be more meaningful to develop a biomechanical model to guide the control strategy for the medical robots in HIT-Robot Assisted Orthopedic Surgery System (HIT-RAOS). In this paper, based the successful work of others, a novel reliable finite element method based biomechanical model for HIT-RAOS was developed to simulate the force needed in reposition procedure. Geometrical model was obtained from 3D reconstruction from CT images of a just died man. Using this boundary information, the finite element model of the leg including part of femur, broken upper tibia, broken lower tibia, talus, calcaneus, Kirschner nail, muscles and other soft tissues was created in ANSYS. Furthermore, as it was too difficult to reconstruct the accurate geometry model from CT images, a new simplified muscle model was presented. The bony structures and tendons were defined as linearly elastic, while soft tissues and muscle fibers were assumed to be hyper elastic. To validate this model, the same dead man was involved to simulate the patient, and a set of data of the force needed to separate the two broken bones and the distance between them in reposition procedure was recorded. Then, another set of data was acquired from the finite element analysis. After comparison, the two sets of data matched well. The Finite Element model was proved to be acceptable.
Mechanical induction of critically delayed bone healing in sheep: radiological and biomechanical results.	This study aimed to mechanically produce a standardized ovine model for a critically delayed bone union. A tibial osteotomy was stabilized with either a rigid (group I) or mechanically critical (group II) external fixator in sheep. Interfragmentary movements and ground reaction forces were monitored throughout the healing period of 9 weeks. After sacrifice at 6 weeks, 9 weeks and 6 months, radiographs were taken and the tibiae were examined mechanically. Interfragmentary movements were considerably larger in group II throughout the healing period. Unlike group I, the operated limb in group II did not return to full weight bearing during the treatment period. Radiographic and mechanical observations showed significantly inferior bone healing in group II at 6 and 9 weeks compared to group I. After 6 months, five sheep treated with the critical fixator showed radiological bridging of the osteotomy, but the biomechanical strength of the repair was still inferior to group I at 9 weeks. The remaining three animals had even developed a hypertrophic non-union. In this study, mechanical instability was employed to induce a critically delayed healing model in sheep. In some cases, this approach even led to the development of a hypertrophic non-union. The mechanical induction of critical bone healing using an external fixation device is a reasonable attempt to investigate the patho-physiological healing cascade without suffering from any biological intervention. Therefore, the presented ovine model provides the basis for a comparative evaluation of mechanisms controlling delayed and standard bone healing.
Local application of zoledronic acid incorporated in a poly(D,L-lactide)-coated implant accelerates fracture healing in rats.	Zoledronic acid (ZOL) has been shown in vitro and in vivo to inhibit osteoclastic activity and to regulate osteoblasts. Its antiresorptive effect is used clinically in the treatment of bone-consuming pathologies to prevent skeletal complications. Because of its effect on bone cells, there might be a possible benefit in treatment of fractures by local application from a biodegradable poly(D,L-lactide) (PDLLA) coating of osteosynthetic implants. We analyzed the effect of locally applied ZOL from a PDLLA coating of intramedullary implants on fracture healing.
Clinical applications of bone morphogenetic proteins: current evidence.	Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) were first described by Dr. Marshall Urist in 1965. Since 1988 a series of clinical studies and randomized clinical trials have evaluated the application of these molecules in humans. A comprehensive review of 30 clinical studies was performed to elicit the existing evidence of the English orthopaedic literature. BMPs appear to be efficacious as the reported success rates are equivalent and perhaps superior to those achieved with the gold standard methods of autografting. Clinical safety assessments have been even more encouraging with just a few reports of adverse events related to their use in clinical practice. There are certain controversies on the presented results of all the reviewed clinical series, which reflect the complexity of the osteoinductive and osteoconductive role of the BMPs, the ongoing quest for optimization of the dosing schemes and delivery carriers, as well as the multifactorial interactions during bone formation and remodeling.
Biomechanical behavior of the tibiofibular frame in nonunion.	In this paper an in vitro investigation of the biomechanical behavior of the tibiofibular frame in nonunion using electrical extensometry is presented. The intact and untreated nonunited frames are studied as well as three surgical treatments classically used in nonunion: the plating technique, the onlay graft technique and the external fixation according to Ilizarov. The monopodal position with extended knee is considered, and particular attention is paid to the different muscle insertions. The results for the plating and onlay grafting techniques resemble those for the intact frame, whereas the Ilizarov external fixator increases the overall rigidity of the frame. In the untreated nonunited tibiofibular frame, an inversion of the tension and compression areas at the level of the tibia was found. We hypothesize that this phenomenon could be one of the mechanical factors leading to nonunion. Indeed, cyclic stresses in the fracture callus might prevent bony fusion, for the areas healing under compression stresses must become tension areas once the tibia is healed and vice versa.
The dynamic axial fixator in fractures of the tibia and femur. A retrospective study in 98 patients.	In a retrospective study involving 98 patients the results achieved with the dynamic axial fixator (Orthofix) in closed or open fractures of the tibia or femur treated in two district hospitals in the southwest of England during the period 1986-1988 were evaluated. Fifteen patients were vacationers and, as a result, were lost to followup. The operation and subsequent management was performed by more than 15 different members of the staff, of different levels of seniority and experience. The present survey in this group of surgeons has demonstrated that the dynamic axial fixator is a reliable means of treating open fractures of the tibia following an initial good reduction. It does, however, highlight the importance of the strict adherence to simple guidelines for application, pin care and dynamization if best results are to be obtained.
Effect of pulsed electromagnetic field on healing of experimental nonunion in rat tibiae.	To see the effect of Pulsed Electromagnetic Field (PEMF) on nonunited fracture healing, nonunion was induced in rat tibiae and PEMF was applied on it. Out of five different techniques utilised for inducing nonunion soft tissue interposition was found to be the most suitable and effective method of experimental induction of nonunion. Twenty eight experimental and 15 control rats were finally evaluated for the effect of PEMF applied for up to 8 weeks. After sacrifice of 8 experimental and 4 controls, 6 experimental and 3 controls, again 6 experimental and 3 controls and finally 8 experimental and 5 controls at 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks respectively of PEMF application no significant difference as to the quality of healing was observed between the experimental and control animals. It was thus concluded that PEMF appeared to have no beneficial effect on the healing of nonunited fractures in experimental set-up.
Clinical factors and the size of the external callus in tibial shaft fractures.	The influence of clinical factors on external callus formation was investigated by prospectively studying 50 closed adult unilateral tibial shaft fractures. The fractures were treated by closed methods and all united normally within 20 weeks of injury. The callus volume and a quantitative index of size, calculated from roentgenograms, did not correlate with clinical factors such as severity of trauma, interval from fracture to weight bearing, fracture morphology, presence or absence of a fracture gap, or fracture displacement.
Early weight bearing after complete tibial shaft fractures in children.	This study determined the prevalence of complications related to early weight bearing and the factors associated with time to healing in children after a complete tibial shaft fracture. Radiographs and medical records were reviewed from patients with unilateral, closed, complete tibial shaft fractures who were treated nonoperatively with a long leg cast. There were 55 males (68.8%) and 25 females (31.2%) with a mean ± SD age of 6.0 ± 4.0 years (range 1-16). There were few complications (2.5%) and patients healed faster if they bore weight earlier (0.3 days faster for each day earlier to weight bearing, P = 0.02), were younger (2.3 days faster per year younger, P < 0.001), were female (2.7 days faster than males, P = 0.02), or did not have a closed reduction (3.8 days faster, P = 0.002) (R = 0.63). Time to weight bearing after complete tibial shaft fracture was not associated with an increased risk of complications. Earlier weight bearing was associated with a shorter time to healing. This study provides support for treatment with early weight bearing in children with closed, complete tibial shaft fractures.
Conservative management or closed nailing for tibial shaft fractures. A randomised prospective trial.	We performed a prospective randomised trial on matched groups of patients with displaced tibial shaft fractures to compare conservative treatment with closed intramedullary nailing. The results showed conclusively that intramedullary nailing gave more rapid union with less malunion and shortening. Nailed patients had less time off work with a more predictable and rapid return to full function. We therefore consider that closed intramedullary nailing is the most efficient treatment for displaced fractures of the tibial shaft.
Compound tibial fractures with bone loss treated by the Ilizarov technique.	We report our experience of the use of the Ilizarov technique to treat nine patients with severe compound tibial fractures. The mean defect in bone was 6.3 cm, and four cases were infected. All nine patients had satisfactory union and function without the use of bone grafts or antibiotics. The Ilizarov technique was very satisfactory; there were no major complications.
A study of function and residual joint stiffness after functional bracing of tibial shaft fractures.	Ninety-eight diaphyseal tibial fractures were treated with custom made functional braces in 97 patients older than 14 years of age. The average follow-up period was 1.86 years, and 53 patients had more than two years' evaluation (average, 2.83 years). The majority of the patients did not have full range of movement in the ankle and subtalar joints when the brace was removed after fracture healing. Although the stiffness decreased with time, a significant number of patients were left with residual joint stiffness. At an average follow-up period of 1.86 years, 68.4% of the patients had normal ankle motion and 60% had normal inversion and eversion of the hindfoot. In patients with more than two years' evaluation, 75.5% had normal ankle movement and 71.1% had normal inversion and eversion of the foot. In the knee joint, the incidence of residual joint stiffness was small and the amount of stiffness was clinically insignificant. Patients with an abnormal walking pattern after fracture healing had a high incidence of ankle and subtalar joint stiffness.
Ultrasound propagation velocity and broadband attenuation can help evaluate the healing process of an experimental fracture.	Ultrasonometry seems to have a future for the evaluation of fracture healing. Ultrasound propagation velocity (USPV) significantly decreases at the same time that bone diameter decreases as healing takes place, thus approaching normal values. In this investigation, both USPV and broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) were measured using a model of a transverse mid-diaphyseal osteotomy of sheep tibiae. Twenty-one sheep were operated and divided into three groups of seven, according to the follow-up period of 30, 60, and 90 days, respectively. The progress of healing of the osteotomy was checked with monthly conventional radiographs. The animals were killed at the end of the period of observation of each group, both operated-upon and intact tibiae being resected and submitted to the measurement of underwater transverse and direct contact transverse and longitudinal USPV and BUA at the osteotomy site. The intact left tibia of the 21 animals was used for control, being examined on a symmetrical diaphyseal segment. USPV increased while BUA decreased with the progression of healing, with significant differences between the operated and untouched tibiae and between the periods of observation, for most of the comparisons. There was a strong negative correlation between USPV and BUA. Both USPV and BUA directly reflect and can help predict the healing of fractures, but USPV alone can be used as a fundamental parameter. Ultrasonometry may be of use in clinical application to humans provided adequate adaptations can be developed.
An injectable composite material containing bone morphogenetic protein-2 shortens the period of distraction osteogenesis in vivo.	To investigate new methods that can decrease the duration of bone transport (BT) distraction osteogenesis, we injected composite materials containing recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and induced the generation of a callus bridge by rapid segmental transport (4 mm/day) in a rabbit bone defect model. The composite materials consisted of BMP-2 (0, 30, or 100 µg), β-tricalcium phosphate powder (βTCP, 100 mg/animal; particle size, <100 µm), and polyethylene glycol (PEG; 40 mg/animal). A paste of equivalent composition was percutaneously injected at the lengthening and the docking sites after surgery and after BT, respectively. The radiographic, mechanical, and histological examinations 12 weeks post-operative revealed that the generation of bridging callus in the presence and in the absence of BMP-2 was significantly different. The callus mass in the bone defect region was adequately and consistently developed in the presence of 100 µg of BMP (administered for 6 weeks), and the bones were consolidated in 12 weeks. Such an adequate callus formation was not observed in the control animals without BMP-2 treatment. The result of this experimental study suggests the potential application of BMP-2 in accelerating callus formation and in enabling rapid bone transporting, thereby shortening the treatment period for the repair of diaphyseal bone defects by distraction osteogenesis.
Finite element approach used on the human tibia: a study on spiral fractures.	The application of finite element analysis (FEA) to the field of biomechanics has gained immense importance and is helpful in surgical planning and in the design of implants. In the pursuit of designing customized and suitable human implants to aid in the treatment of fractures, studies analyzing the behavior of bone under different loading conditions are required. This paper discusses such a study in regard to the human tibia bone, which gets fractured due to twisting loading. This spiral fracture phenomenon has been modeled for the evaluation of its maximum strain energy-absorbing capacity and Von Mises stresses. A 3D model of the human tibia was created from a computed tomography scan using CAD software. The model was then imported into FEA software (Femap version 9.0, UGS, Plano, TX, USA) and analyzed by applying specific boundary conditions and material properties. The results using the FEA approach were then compared with those obtained using the conventional method. We hope that these data will be helpful for the selection of materials used in medical implants.
Strength of the Joshi External Stabilising System.	To conduct an in vitro strength test for the Joshi External Stabilising System (JESS) for stabilisation of tibial fractures using a cadaveric tibia and steel rods.
The influence of different osteosynthesis configurations with locking compression plates (LCP) on stability and fracture healing after an oblique 45° angle osteotomy.	Locking compression plates are used in various configurations with lack of detailed information on consequent bone healing.
Clinical outcomes of autogenous cancellous bone grafts obtained through the portal for tibial nailing.	The purpose of this study is to introduce and review the clinical outcomes of a new technique for harvesting autogenous cancellous bone grafts in association with tibial intramedullary (IM) nailing.
Biomechanical evaluation of fractured tibia externally fixed with an LCP.	A locking compression plate (LCP) can serve as an external fixation for fractured tibia. However, there is concern about the stability and endurance during partial weight bearing. This study was experimentally evaluated the effects of fracture gap sizes (1, 5, and 10 mm) on the stability and endurance of fractured tibia externally fixed with a 316L-stainless LCP. For stable fractured tibia (1-mm fracture gap), the large contact area of fracture surfaces resulted in nearly similar stiffness to that of intact tibia. The partial weight bearing is therefore possible. Whereas smaller contact area and no contact of fracture surfaces were observed for tibias with 5-mm and 10-mm fracture gaps, respectively. Their stiffnesses were significantly lower than those of intact tibia and tibia with 1-mm fracture gap. Thus, the partial weight bearing should be considered carefully in early phase of treatment. All LCP-tibial models were cyclically loaded beyond 500,000 cycles, that is, approximately 6 months of healing, without any failure of LCP. Thus, the failure of LCP is unlikely a critical issue for the present cases.
Introducing a method of central bone grafting for nonunion of tiabial fractures]	Nonunion of the tibia fracture may be caused by local infection, soft tissue defect,bone defect,fracture malaignment,bone marrow cavity block and degree of injury and so on. For less complications, central bone grafting is better than other methods for the treatment of selected nonunions of the tibia fracture. This procedure is performed through lateral approach, anterior to the fibula. Fresh autogenous bone from the iliac crest is used to form a central bridge between the tibia and fibula and the nonunion of the tibia at top and below. Application of internal fixation is beneficial to correct deformity and promote fracture healing. Central bone grafting is a safe and effective treatment for nonunions of the tibia.
Metaphyseal screw augmentation of the LISS-PLT plate with polymethylmethacrylate improves angular stability in osteoporotic proximal third tibial fractures: a biomechanical study in human cadaveric tibiae.	The incidence of osteoporotic proximal tibial fractures has increased during the last 2 decades. A promising approach in osteoporotic fracture fixation is polymethylmethacrylate-based cement augmentation of implants to gain better implant purchase in the bone. This study investigates the biomechanical benefits of screw augmentation in less invasive stabilization system-proximal lateral tibial (LISS-PLT) plates in cadaveric extraarticular comminuted proximal tibial fractures (OTA-41-A3.3).
Radiologic outcome and patient-reported function after intramedullary nailing: a comparison of the retropatellar and infrapatellar approach.	The purpose of this study was to compare the patient-reported functional outcomes after intramedullary nailing of the tibia through a retropatellar or infrapatellar approach. Radiographic assessment of nail entry point and accuracy of fracture reduction were included to aid in the identification of variables that may explain any difference in patient-reported outcomes.
The difficult healing of segmental fractures of the tibial shaft.	Segmental fractures of the tibial shaft are always caused by a high-energy direct trauma. They are frequently associated with important soft tissue injuries, and the vascularization of the intermediate bone fragment is severely disturbed. The postoperative problems of 40 patients with 41 segmental tibial shaft fractures were reviewed. Twenty-three fractures (56.1%) were treated with a plate osteosynthesis, 18 (43.9%) with an external fixator. Thirty-seven fractures could be followed-up until bony consolidation. Bone-healing problems were seen in 29%, always in the distal fracture. A good functional result could be obtained in 78.4%. The problems of each stabilization method are discussed. The vascularization of the intermediate segment may not be endangered secondarily by the stabilization procedure.
Delayed union and nonunion of the tibia: experience in a community teaching hospital.	Delayed union and nonunion are frequent sequelae of high-energy tibial fractures, particularly compound ones. The authors studied 45 such cases; of these, 20 fractures were compound. The authors analysed the initial management but found no apparent correlation between the initial management of these fractures and subsequent delayed union or nonunion. The Phemister bone-grafting technique was used to achieve union and was considered a safe, efficacious method. Aggressive initial management of the soft-tissue component of tibial fractures is recommended to minimize the possible development of chronic osteomyelitis, a serious complication that occurred in eight patients and necessitated below-knee amputation in three.
Triplane fracture of the distal tibia. A variant in cases with an open growth plate.	We have reviewed 15 cases of triplane fracture of the distal tibia. The mechanism of injury is lateral rotation and the anatomical pattern of the fracture depends on the state of the growth plate at the time of injury. In seven of our cases the anteromedial part of the growth plate was fused, but in eight children the plate was completely open. In six of these eight children there was a hump or projection of the medial growth plate. It is suggested that this hump stabilises the anteromedial part of the epiphysis in a manner similar to the partial anteromedial fusion seen in older children, and that this accounts for the occurrence of triplane fracture in the presence of an open growth plate.
Prediction of fracture healing in the tibia by quantitative radionuclide imaging.	The uptake of 99mTc-MDP was studied in 73 patients after a tibial fracture. The image obtained five minutes after injection during a period between one and four weeks after fracture was found to be related to the incidence of non-union after six months. A ratio of 1.3 between the uptake at the fracture site and at normal bone adjacent to it predicted non-union in an individual patient with a sensitivity of about 70% and a specificity of 90%.
Forces and impulses during aided gait.	Walking aids stabilize, support, and restrain/propel the locomotion of a body with functional deficits due to musculoskeletal and neuromuscular disorders. The relative contribution of limbs and aids in these functions was quantified in three patient groups: those with postoperative total hip replacement (THR), tibial fracture, and paraplegia. Aid forces were recorded and resolved into three components. Floor-to-foot forces were measured anterior-posteriorly and vertically. Results were interpreted by temporal relationships between aids and limb, symmetry of restraining/propelling forces, and peak forces during limb and aid loading phases. Impulse values (area under the force-time curve), presented as histograms, readily demonstrated the contribution of aids and limbs to locomotion. Results showed (1) variability in aid loadings among THR subjects, and between ipsilateral and contralateral sticks; (2) symmetrical restraining and propelling aid loadings of fracture subjects; and (3) that aid impulses directed medially were greater than the combined anterior-posterior direction amounts in four of seven subjects performing three-point gait. It is suggested that this technique of quantifying aid usage by impulse histograms be used to evaluate and prescription and sizing, gait training, and crutch design.
Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) plates versus stainless steel dynamic compression plates in the treatment of fractures of the tibiae in dogs.	In a series of 14 dogs, fractures of both tibiae were caused by a "bone-breaker" designed in the authors' department and observed to produce a consistent and realistic canine fracture. One tibia was plated with a carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) plate and the other with a dynamic compression (DC) plate. Roentgenographic examination demonstrated healing of the CFRP-plated tibiae with abundant callus, and almost total remodeling of the fracture callus between ten and 20 weeks. Biomechanical testing by three-point bending revealed little difference between the strength of union of the fractures at 12-16 weeks. At 20 weeks, although the numbers were too small for statistical confirmation, the CFRP-plated tibiae were consistently stronger than the DC-plated tibiae.
An evaluation of the bending stiffness of various tibial fixation methods.	The relative stiffness of human tibial fixation by plaster casts, intramedullary rods, external fixators, and dynamic compression plates was compared to the stiffness of the intact tibia. Four-point bending was performed on each specimen, first intact, and then after sequential instrumentation, thus allowing each specimen to serve as its own control. The mean stiffnesses obtained for the bone-device complexes, as a percentage of the intact tibial stiffness, were 113 +/- 9% for the delta frame fixator, 57 +/- 14% for the dynamic compression plate, 28 +/- 2% for the unilateral external fixator (UEF) with stainless steel sidebar, 18 +/- 1% for the UEF with aluminum sidebar, 7 +/- 2% for the flexible intramedullary (IM) rods, and 6 +/- 2% for the cast. Even relatively flexible unilateral external fixators are much stiffer than cast or IM rod fixation, methods that usually lead to satisfactory union by secondary healing. If secondary union with callus formation is desirable, modifications of the external fixator may be necessary to provide more flexible fixation. This study may be one of the first attempts to quantitate the stiffness of tibial fixation in a standard cast and compare it with other devices.
Animal experimental scintigraphic observations of the course of secondary fracture healing without and with ultrasound stimulation]	The scintigraphic course observation until the biologic fracture healing took place on the fracture model of the closed lower leg fracture with secondary fracture healing in rabbit. 151 scintigraphic investigations were carried out by means of 99mTc HEDP. The ROI activity quotient increased significantly on the 14th day after the fracture up to the maximum value Q = 6.44. 61 fractures of the lower leg were treated by ultrasound from the 14th to the 28th day after the fracture. These stimulated fractures showed a biologic healing on the 168th day already. The fractures treated without ultrasound could not be proved any more scintigraphically after the 203rd day after the fracture.
In vitro studies of the load bearing function of the interosseous membrane and fibula in relation to total stress capacity of the lower leg]	The present paper illustrates the importance of the interosseous membrane and the loadbearing function of the fibula in relieving stress on the tibia. The author's theoretical and experimental studies, as well as clinical observations, confirm that the intact interosseous membrane and fibula relieve the tibia by approx. 30%.
Osteolysis after rigid fixation. The possible role of periosteal neural mechanoreceptors in bone remodeling.	Rigid intramedullary fixation in the rat tibiofibular bone of a tibial fracture caused the development of nonunion in the associated fibular fracture, with marked osteolytic resorption of the fibular fragments. In contrast, with flexible fixation, the associated fibular fracture healed normally. The tibial fractures healed uneventfully in both cases. Histologic examinations showed that there exists a plexus of encapsulated nerve endings (Pacinian corpuscles) in the periosteum of the fibula, at the distal tibiofibular junction. The rat fibula forms a bony contact with the lower midshaft of the anteriorly curved tibia, acting as a supporting shaft. The periosteal neural mechanoreceptors probably sense the fibular loading when the tibia is bent during weight-bearing. Fibular resorption in rigid fixation could be attributed to the rigid intramedullary nail preventing tibial bending and loading of the receptor area. In other words the neural elements could detect the stress protection due to rigid fixation and coordinate the adverse remodeling process.
Compartmental pressure changes during calcaneal traction in tibial fractures.	The effect of calcaneal traction on the compartmental pressure in the legs of five individuals with tibial fractures was studied. Mean resting pressures without traction were found to be 31.9 mmHg for the deep posterior compartment and 27.0 mmHg for the anterior compartment. For each kilogram weight of traction applied the deep posterior pressure rose by 5.7 per cent of the resting value and the anterior pressure by 1.6 per cent. It is suggested that the weight of traction should be only sufficient to render the patient comfortable and maintain alignment of the limb. Excessive traction is likely to increase the risk of compartmental ischaemia. The application of six kilograms of traction would raise the mean resting pressure by 34 per cent from 31.9 to 42.7 mmHg.
Compartment pressure monitoring during intramedullary fixation of tibial fractures.	Twenty-six legs in 25 patients were monitored prospectively for compartment pressures during intramedullary nailing of open and closed tibial shaft fractures. Twenty-three patients were treated within 24 hours of admission. Twenty-three unreamed and three reamed intramedullary rods were utilized. Compartment pressures were measured initially, following fracture reduction, and during reaming. Pressures were also measured at the completion of nailing with the ankle dorsiflexed and at rest (plantar flexed) to determine positional effects on compartment pressures. Nine fractures (35%) were found to have persistently elevated pressures (> 40 mm Hg) and underwent immediate four-compartment fasciotomy. The remaining group of 17 fractures (65%) was monitored throughout the intraoperative period. No patient monitored intraoperatively developed postoperative compartment syndrome.
Delayed unions and nonunions of open tibial fractures. Correlation with arteriography results.	To investigate the importance of arterial integrity in tibial fracture healing, the authors retrospectively assessed prognosis as a function of arterial injury in a large series of tibial fracture patients. The records of 114 patients who were treated for an open fracture of the tibia at a San Francisco hospital between 1981 and 1991 were selected for review; in each case, the injury had been caused by a blunt trauma, and arteriography had been performed to evaluate a suspected arterial injury in the ipsilateral extremity. Sixty-two patients had had a normal arteriogram and 52 had demonstrated occlusion of one or two of the three arteries that supply the foot. The group of patients who had demonstrated arterial occlusion had a significantly greater incidence of delayed union or nonunion (24 of 52 compared with ten of 62) and notably more cases of osteomyelitis (nine of 52 compared with four of 62); when the patients with osteomyelitis are excluded, the difference between the groups is still significant. This study is the first that indicates that patients with open fractures of the tibia who demonstrate arterial occlusion in their ipsilateral extremity may be more prone to delayed union or nonunion. More vigilant follow-up evaluation may therefore be warranted in such patients to better anticipate the need for exchange rodding or bone grafting.
Experimental study of the effect of weight bearing on fracture healing in the canine tibia.	The authors compared the effects of decreased loading, increased loading, and baseline loading on the early (six weeks) and intermediate (12 weeks) healing of tibial fractures treated with an external fixator in adult dogs. The different loading conditions were verified by gait studies. Periosteal bone in the increased-loading fracture site was significantly increased compared with the decreased-loading site at both time intervals, and with the baseline-loading site at six weeks. The mechanical variables of energy absorption and angle of rotation at six weeks were significantly increased in the increased-loading fracture site compared with the decreased-loading site and baseline-loading site. Blood flow to the increased-loading fracture site was significantly higher than that to the decreased-loading fracture site at six weeks. Five dogs were studied at 12 weeks to compare the effects of decreased loading to increased loading. The increased-loading fracture showed significantly increased rotation, torque, and energy absorption to failure. Blood flow was not measured in the 12-week animals.
Measuring stiffness can define healing of tibial fractures.	We measured fracture stiffness in 212 patients with tibial fractures treated by external fixation. In the first 117 patients (group 1) the decision to remove the fixator and allow independent weight-bearing was made on clinical grounds. In the other 95 patients (group 2) the frames were removed when the fracture stiffness had reached 15 Nm/degree. In group 1 there were eight refractures and in group 2 there was none (p = 0.02, Fisher's exact test). The time to independent weight-bearing was longer in group 1 (median 24 weeks) than in group 2 (21.7 weeks, p = 0.02). The greater precision of our objective measurement was associated with a reduction in refracture rate and in the time taken to achieve independent weight-bearing. We consider that a stiffness of 15 Nm/degree in the sagittal plane provides a useful definition of union of tibial fractures.
Experience with external fixation in treatment of shaft fractures in childhood]	In a retrospective study 89 shaft fractures sustained during childhood and treated by external fixation were analysed [80 fractures of the lower extremity (59 of the femur) and 9 of the upper extremity]. The operative investment (operating time, period of hospitalization, time for fluoroscopy, general anaesthesia, start of mobilization, number of X-rays) correlated with the success of the treatment. The overall complication rate was 19.1%. Technical errors occurred in 5.6% of all cases; the infection rate was 4.5%; refractures were seen in 4.5% of all patients and reinfarction also in 4.5%. The last 10 femur fractures were analysed separately and the overall complication rate was demonstrably reduced to 3.2%. All technical errors are avoidable and the infection rate could be minimized by better care of the pin, exit points, and by ensuring more stable anchorage of the screws. The consolidation time is longer than with plate osteosynthesis and medullary nailing. But in contrast to adults, in children the treatment was completed with external fixation, and no pseudarthrosis was seen. The consolidation time was shorter with dynamic external fixation. With dynamic systems healing took an average of 7 weeks, while rigid systems needed an average of 9 weeks. Refractures and reinfarction were caused by the rigidity of the external fixation system. In isolated dislocated shaft fractures in childhood the advantages of the fixateur externe are its easy application, low level of invasiveness and early mobilization. It was used in all kinds of fractures in children aged 4-13 years.
Early detection of delayed union in lower leg fractures using a computerised analysis of mechanical vibration reactions of bone for assessing the state of fracture healing.	Standard X-ray techniques are used to follow up the healing process of bone fractures. However, these methods allow only indirect conclusions about the stability of the healing bone, depending on the experience of the clinician. In addition, by radiologic means, delayed union or non-union can only be diagnosed on the basis of the absence of specific changes such as callus formation. Therefore, efforts have been made to develop alternative methods for monitoring the healing process. The measuring principle of a non-invasive method is based on evaluation of changes in mechanical vibration reactions. The measuring system is composed of two sound transducers, an amplifier module and an AD converter attached to a PC. The assessment of 150 healthy individuals as well as an initial measuring series after treatment of tibial fractures with an external fixator system revealed highly significant differences between intact and fractured tibias. Thus, computerised sonometry is capable of supplying quantitatively recordable information about the stability of a fractured bone at any time in the healing process. Furthermore, this non-invasive technique allows early diagnosis of disorders in the repair process by the absence of change in the parameters.
Resonant frequency analysis of the tibia as a measure of fracture healing.	The Resonant Frequency (RF) of the tibia is proportional to its stiffness. As a fractured tibia heals, its RF should increase. The RF was serially determined in 74 fractured tibias (205 examinations). These were subdivided by fracture location and fixation. Fast Fourier transform software generates the RF from data obtained with an instrumented impactor and accelerometer. The RF was normalized by expressing it as a ratio of the intact tibia. This ratio is called the tibial stiffness index (TSI). A 20 point tibial fracture score (TFS) quantitated the clinical and radiographic signs of healing. For each group the paired TSI and TFS were compared by regression analysis. Except for those fractures limited to the proximal fourth of the tibia, the TSI was found to correlate significantly (p = 0.0001) with the TFS. Fractures without fixation and those with unlocked, unreamed tibial nails showed very significant correlation of TSI with TFS (p = 0.0001). RF analysis was not useful in fractures with locked or reamed tibial nails. Examination of tibia with external fixation showed significant correlation (p = 0.02) of the TSI with the TFS.
Early, full weightbearing with flexible fixation delays fracture healing.	Secondary fracture healing is known to be accelerated by the process of periosteal callus formation that can be induced by flexible fracture fixation in connection with loading of the injured extremity. The purpose of this study was to compare the healing of experimental fractures of long bones in sheep under early weightbearing with that of fractures under delayed, steadily increasing weightbearing. Differences in the quality of fracture healing were described by biomechanical (rigidity of fracture, indentation stiffness of callus) and histologic methods. Prevention from early, full weightbearing resulted in a higher flexural rigidity of the fracture, an increased mechanical stiffness of the callus tissue, and an enhanced bone formation at the healing front. Although early loading of a fresh fracture initiated an enormous amount of periosteal callus, the healing of the osteotomy was significantly delayed, and the quality of the newly formed tissue was reduced as compared with fractures with a reduced loading situation. A reduction of load transfer by delaying full weightbearing is advantageous for the healing of fractures stabilized with flexible fixation systems.
