Surgical management of traumatic injuries to the tibial arteries.	Altogether 60 patients with traumatic injuries to the tibial arteries were entered into the study. Twenty-four patients presented with gunshot, 24 with stab and incised, 10 with contused and lacerated wounds, and 2 patients had blunt traumas. Thirty-nine patients were admitted to the clinic within the period as long as 8 hours since the time of wounding, 9 patients within 8 to 24 hours, and 12 patients within the period as long as one to 15 days. 39 patients had been rendered first medical aid at other treatment institutions. It was established that prehospital diagnostic, tactic and technical errors had been made in 25 of the 39 patients. All the patients were distributed into three groups: group I (n=8) included patients with isolated injuries of one of the tibial arteries; group II (n=11) with injuries of two arteries and group III included patients with damage to all three arteries. In group I, circulation remained made for irrespective of the times of ischemic state existence. In groups II and III, all the patients demonstrated circulatory decompensation. Surgical management depended on the severity of the general condition and the degree of limb ischemia. Primary amputation was indicated to 11 (18.3%) patients (humid gangrene was diagnosed in 5 patients, severe trauma with major defects of soft tissues and bone fractures in 6 patients). The remaining 49 victims underwent different surgical interventions such as ligation of the vessel at injury to one artery (23); revascularization (22); fasciotomy, hematoma evacuation and reposition of the bones in an isolated form (4). Five (10.2%) patients required secondary amputation. Beneficial results with complete circulatory compensation were obtained in 44 (73,3%) patients. The overall amputation rate accounted for 26.6%.
Pseudoaneurysm of the anterior tibial artery after ankle arthroscopy.	Ankle arthroscopy is believed to have the least vascular complications compared with other types of arthroscopies. We present a case of traumatic pseudoaneurysm of the anterior tibial artery after ankle arthroscopy, an extremely rare complication that was treated surgically and had an uneventful recovery.
Ankle sprain: an unexpected complication.	Blunt arterial injury is usually caused by high velocity trauma and can result in intimal dissection. We present a case of a professional footballer who sustained an intimal tear of the posterior tibial artery following a minor eversion injury of the ankle. The injury was noticed because of the physical demands of this patient's profession. This was confirmed by an arteriogram and was treated with bypass surgery using an arm vein. Arterial intimal injury has not been reported previously with this type of injury. A high index of suspicion is needed to diagnose these injuries and revascularisation either by primary anastomosis or vein interposition graft is suggested.
Vacuum-assisted closure complicated by erosion and hemorrhage of the anterior tibial artery.	We report an erosion and hemorrhage of a left anterior tibial artery associated with a vacuum-assisted closure device. To our knowledge, this report represents the first arterial erosion associated with a vacuum-assisted closure device. We estimate our patient lost 6 units of blood. The hemorrhage was complicated by anticoagulation and a traumatic setting. Based on our complication, we believe great care should be taken when placing a vacuum-assisted closure device adjacent to an exposed artery.
Pseudoaneurysm and penetrating trauma.	Three patients who developed pseudoaneurysms following penetrating vascular injuries are presented. Attention is drawn to the variable period of time between the initial injury and presentation. The necessity of maintaining an awareness of this problem is emphasized.
Arterial injuries associated with complete dislocation of the knee.	To determine the frequency and type of arterial injuries associated with complete dislocation of the knee and to correlate the findings at physical examination with those at arteriography, a computerized search for patients with a diagnosis of dislocation of the knee at discharge from an urban trauma hospital was performed. Nineteen patients with complete dislocation of the knee were found. Arterial injuries were seen in six patients (32%). Four of the 19 patients had no pedal pulse at physical examination. In three of these four patients, occlusion of the popliteal artery was seen on arteriograms. The fourth patient had occlusion of an anomalous anterior tibial artery and a compartmental syndrome. Two of the 15 other patients with pedal pulses (13%) had nonoccluding intimal defects of the popliteal artery; these two patients did well without surgery. It is concluded that abnormal peripheral pulses associated with complete knee dislocation are highly predictive of major arterial injury. If peripheral pulses are normal, a low but definite frequency of arterial damage exists.
Pseudoaneurysm of the anterior tibial artery after ankle arthroscopy.	The formation of an arterial pseudoaneurysm as a complication of ankle arthroscopy is extremely rare, with a reported incidence of 0.008%. Pseudoaneurysm is especially unlikely after ankle arthroscopy by means of standard anteromedial and anterolateral portals. In this report, we describe a case of a pseudoaneurysm of the anterior tibial artery detected 2 weeks after ankle arthroscopy in a 63-year-old woman. The diagnosis was confirmed with a Doppler ultrasonography scan of the right ankle, after which the patient was referred to an interventional radiologist, who performed an angiogram. Endovascular embolization of the pseudoaneurysm was performed thereafter, and the patient experienced an uneventful recovery after the intervention. The potentially catastrophic sequelae of delayed diagnosis or misdiagnosis of the complication, like hemarthrosis of the ankle and compartment syndrome, are dangerous and must not be underestimated. Therefore, a high degree of suspicion for a pseudoaneurysm should be maintained in the postarthroscopy period when a patient presents with abnormal swelling and pain. Potentially preventative measures include careful dissection while making the portals and preoperative mapping of the vascular structures with a duplex or handheld Doppler.
Pseudoaneurysm of the tibioperoneal trunk.	A young woman with an iatrogenic coagulation defect related to a mechanical mitral valve prosthesis developed a pseudoaneurysm of the tibioperoneal trunk after a minor blunt injury. The importance of minor blunt trauma in such cases and the surgical approach are reviewed.
Pseudoaneurysm after high tibial osteotomy and limb lengthening.	A case of a young man with anterior tibial artery rupture and pseudoaneurysm formation that occurred during lengthening of a scarred limb is presented. Leg length discrepancy occurred because of previous distal femoral and proximal tibial fractures. Two corrective operations were performed 11 and 2 years earlier at another hospital. As limb deformity persisted, distal femoral and proximal tibial osteotomies combined with limb lengthening were performed. The aim was to achieve 120 mm (70 mm femoral, 50 mm tibial) lengthening. The operative and early postoperative course was uneventful. Twenty-six days after surgery (when femoral and tibial lengthening was 13.5 mm and 5.5 mm, respectively), blood began oozing from the operative scar during limb distraction. At 70 days after surgery (when femoral and tibia lengthening was 41.5 mm and 14 mm, respectively), a rupture and pseudoaneurysm of the anterior tibial artery became apparent. Documentation of a normal pulses in the foot after surgery, the late presentation of pseudoaneurysm, and the initiation of bleeding by limb distraction indicate that limb lengthening either aggravated an unrecognized arterial injury or precipitated de novo rupture of the anterior tibial artery scarred from previous trauma. The pseudoaneurysm was treated successfully by transarterial embolization.
Closed rupture of the posterior tibial artery secondary to a soccer injury.	Arterial damage following blunt trauma is uncommon and is usually the result of high-energy injury. We report a case of posterior tibial artery rupture after a closed distal tibial fracture, sustained during a low-energy soccer tackle.
