Comparable efficacies of the antimicrobial peptide human lactoferrin 1-11 and gentamicin in a chronic methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis model.	The therapeutic efficacy of an antimicrobial peptide, human lactoferrin 1-11 (hLF1-11), was investigated in a model of chronic methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (gentamicin susceptible) osteomyelitis in rabbits. We incorporated 50 mg hLF1-11/g or 50 mg gentamicin/g cement powder into a calcium phosphate bone cement (Ca-P) and injected it into the debrided tibial cavity, creating a local drug delivery system. The efficacy of hLF1-11 and gentamicin was compared to that of a sham-treated control (plain bone cement) (n=6) and no treatment (infected only) (n=5). The results were evaluated by microbiology, radiology, and histology. MRSA was recovered from all tibias in both control groups (n=11). On the other hand, hLF1-11 and gentamicin significantly reduced the bacterial load. Furthermore, no growth of bacteria was detected in five out of eight and six out of eight specimens of the hLF1-11- and gentamicin-treated groups, respectively. These results were confirmed by a significant reduction of the histological disease severity score by hLF1-11 and gentamicin compared to both control groups. The hLF1-11-treated group also had a significantly lower radiological score compared to the gentamicin-treated group. This study demonstrates the efficacy of hLF1-11 incorporated into Ca-P bone cement as a possible therapeutic strategy for the treatment of osteomyelitis, showing efficacy comparable to that of gentamicin. Therefore, the results of this study warrant further preclinical investigations into the possibilities of using hLF1-11 for the treatment of osteomyelitis.
Mycobacterium marinum osteomyelitis of a long bone.	Mycobacterium marinum can uncommonly cause osteomyelitis of small bones of extremities. The reported cases in literature are reviewed. We report a rare case of long bone osteomyelitis which as far as we are aware, has never been described before. Even though this organism normally causes infection in the superficial cooler regions of the body, clinicians should be aware of the possibility of long bone osteomyelitis in patients with a history of immune compromise and the appropriate treatment strategy in such cases.
Treatment of osteomyelitis in rats by injection of degradable polymer releasing gentamicin.	We evaluated the potential of an injectable degradable polymer-poly(sebacic-co-ricinoleic-ester-anhydride) containing gentamicin for the treatment of osteomyelitis. Osteomyelitis of both tibiae was induced in 13 female Fischer rats by injecting a suspension containing approximately 105 (CFU)/ml of S. aureus into the tibial medullar canal. Three weeks later both tibiae were X-rayed, drilled down the medullar canal, washed with 50 microl gentamicin solution (80 mg/2 ml) and then injected with 50 microl P(SA-RA)+gentamycin 20% w/v to the right tibia and 50 microl P(SA-RA) without gentamicin to the left tibia. After an additional 3 weeks, the rats were sacrificed, and radiographs of the tibiae were taken. Histopathological evaluation of the tibiae was done in a blinded manner. X-ray radiographs showed that all tibiae developed changes compatible with osteomyelitis in 3 weeks. Histological evaluation revealed significant differences between right and left tibiae in 10 rats. In the left tibia moderate intramedullary abscess formation occurred. In most treated tibiae typical changes included the absence (or minimal grade only) of abscesses. The treated group developed significantly less intramedullary abscesses; the p value was 0.028. Locally injected degradable polymer releasing gentamicin proved to be efficient histologically in the treatment of osteomyelitis.
Efficacy of fosfomycin in experimental osteomyelitis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.	The activity of fosfomycin was evaluated in an experimental methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) osteomyelitis model. Eighteen rats were treated for 4 weeks with 150 mg of fosfomycin/kg of body weight intraperitoneally once daily or with saline placebo. After treatment, animals were euthanized and the infected tibiae were processed for quantitative bacterial culture. Bone cultures were positive for methicillin-resistant S. aureus in all 9 (100%) untreated controls and in 2 of 9 (22.2%) fosfomycin-treated rats. Thus, fosfomycin treatment was significantly more efficacious than placebo. No development of resistance was observed after the 4-week treatment period.
Propionibacterium acnes and Staphylococcus lugdunensis cause pyogenic osteomyelitis in an intramedullary nail model in rabbits.	Propionibacterium acnes and coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) are opportunistic pathogens implicated in prosthetic joint and fracture fixation device-related infections. The purpose of this study was to determine whether P. acnes and the CoNS species Staphylococcus lugdunensis, isolated from an "aseptically failed" prosthetic hip joint and a united intramedullary nail-fixed tibial fracture, respectively, could cause osteomyelitis in an established implant-related osteomyelitis model in rabbits in the absence of wear debris from the implant material. The histological features of P. acnes infection in the in vivo rabbit model were consistent with localized pyogenic osteomyelitis, and a biofilm was present on all explanted intramedullary (IM) nails. The animals displayed no outward signs of infection, such as swelling, lameness, weight loss, or elevated white blood cell count. In contrast, infection with S. lugdunensis resulted in histological features consistent with both pyogenic osteomyelitis and septic arthritis, and all S. lugdunensis-infected animals displayed weight loss and an elevated white blood cell count despite biofilm detection in only two out of six rabbits. The differences in the histological and bacteriological profiles of the two species in this rabbit model of infection are reflective of their different clinical presentations: low-grade infection in the case of P. acnes and acute infection for S. lugdunensis. These results are especially important in light of the growing recognition of chronic P. acnes biofilm infections in prosthetic joint failure and nonunion of fracture fixations, which may be currently reported as "aseptic" failure. 
In vivo glycocalyx expression by Staphylococcus aureus phage type 52/52A/80 in S. aureus osteomyelitis.	Osteomyelitic rat tibiae were examined by scanning electron microscopy for the extracellular glycocalyx of Staphylococcus aureus. S. aureus and fractured tibiae from normal rats were incubated together in vitro and examined similarly. Low magnification of endosteal Haversian portals from tibiae studied in vivo and in vitro disclosed adherent S. aureus exuding glycocalyx that buried the organism in dense, coccoid-studded biofilms. The biofilm became progressively more dense over time in vitro and was exuberant at day 70 in vivo. S. aureus incubated in vitro without tibiae disclosed no glycocalyx. Bone chips studied in vitro disclosed staphylococci more commonly near the endosteal Haversian portals than on the intervening endosteal surfaces (mean +/- SE, 280 +/- 75 vs. 12 +/- 3 per 2,500-micron 2 field; P less than .002 by Student's t test). Organisms within ostia were not counted, although they occluded 10%-40% of the ostium. Staphylococci were adherent to exposed woven material, perhaps collagen.
Primary osteomyelitis caused by coagulase-negative staphylococci.	Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CONS) are occasionally cultured from foci of osteomyelitis in otherwise healthy individuals and are usually regarded as contaminants. The present report describes two children with subacute osteomyelitis of the distal tibia in which pure cultures of CONS were obtained from bone. In one patient, the infection was multifocal, and CONS were isolated from two anatomical sites at two different times. In the other patient, the infection was unifocal, and CONS were cultured from two separate specimens obtained from the same site. In both patients, the symptoms progressed until appropriate antibiotic treatment was initiated. CONS isolated from cultures of bone should not automatically be disregarded. Appropriate antibiotic therapy may result in clinical resolution.
Study of osteomyelitis: utility of combined histologic and microbiologic evaluation of percutaneous biopsy samples.	To determine the utility of combined histologic and microbiologic evaluation of percutaneous biopsy samples in cases of suspected osteomyelitis.
