Activity and biological effects of neem products against arthropods of medical and veterinary importance.	Botanical insecticides are relatively safe and degradable, and are readily available sources of biopesticides. The most prominent phytochemical pesticides in recent years are those derived from neem trees, which have been studied extensively in the fields of entomology and phytochemistry, and have uses for medicinal and cosmetic purposes. The neem products have been obtained from several species of neem trees in the family Meliaceae. Six species in this family have been the subject of botanical pesticide research. They are Azadirachta indica A. Juss, Azadirachta excelsa Jack, Azadirachta siamens Valeton, Melia azedarach L., Melia toosendan Sieb. and Zucc., and Melia volkensii Gürke. The Meliaceae, especially A. indica (Indian neem tree), contains at least 35 biologically active principles. Azadirachtin is the predominant insecticidal active ingredient in the seed, leaves, and other parts of the neem tree. Azadirachtin and other compounds in neem products exhibit various modes of action against insects such as antifeedancy, growth regulation, fecundity suppression and sterilization, oviposition repellency or attractancy, changes in biological fitness, and blocking development of vector-borne pathogens. Some of these bioactivity parameters of neem products have been investigated at least in some species of insects of medical and veterinary importance, such as mosquitoes, flies, triatomines, cockroaches, fleas, lice, and others. Here we review, synthesize, and analyze published information on the activity, modes of action, and other biological effects of neem products against arthropods of medical and veterinary importance. The amount of information on the activity, use, and application of neem products for the control of disease vectors and human and animal pests is limited. Additional research is needed to determine the potential usefulness of neem products in vector control programs.
Characterization of proteolytic enzymes expressed in the midgut of Haemaphysalis longicornis.	The proteolytic activities present in midguts of both fed and unfed Haemaphysalis longicornis were assessed by using the gelatin-substrate gel electrophoresis and inhibitor sensitivity analyses. Three predominant (116, 48 and 48 kDa) and two weak (55 and 60 kDa) proteinase bands were commonly expressed in both unfed and fed ticks, while a weak 80 kDa band was only present in fed ticks. Consistent with observations on other tick species, proteolytic activity against the gelatin substrate was observed only under acidic conditions. Inhibition studies against the gelatin substrate using a panel of inhibitors showed that the predominant proteolytic enzymes of 40 and 48 kDa molecular mass are cysteine proteinases. These results are discussed in the context of host vaccination as an alternative tick control method to the current use of chemical acaricides.
The entomological and acarological situation in Nizhegorod Province]	Ixodes, persulcatus, I. ricinus, D. reticulatus, D. marginatus, H. concinna were recorded in different regional environmental regions. The northern districts of the region are endemic for tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) and Ixodes tick-borne borreliosis (ITBB). The infection of ticks with TBE virus is 0.25%, that with Borrelia is 10.3% of the total number of the examinees. In 1997 TBE and TTBB morbidity rates were 1.91 and 2.0 per 100,000, respectively. Data on the phenology of prevailing Anopheles messeae are given. Human malaria contamination may take 99-102 days (the first ten days of June to the second ten days of September). The large size of malaria mosquitoes and the presence of imported cases of malaria make it possible to deteriorate the malaria epidemiological situation. The larvicidal activity of a preparation derived from shepherd's-purse (Capsella bursa pastoris) [correction of caseweed (Bursae pastoris)] was tested. 80-85% deaths of larvae of second-third ages occurred 48 hours after treatment with the preparation, 1 kg/ha.
Boutonneuse fever in tourists as a model for clinical diagnosis of rickettsioses (author's transl)]	Case histories of boutonneuse fever are described in order to exemplify major characteristics of most rickettsioses: recent travel history, feverish illness with severe headache, skin eruptions and histological findings. Up-to-date informations concerning the epidemiologic situation of typhus, scrub typhus and Rocky Mountain spotted fever are given. The characteristics of Q fever and the possibility of rickettsial laboratory infections are pointed out.
Synthesis of nodulisporic acid 2' '-oxazoles and 2' '-thiazoles.	[reaction--see text] The semisynthetic conversion of nodulisporic acid A (1) into a set of three heterocyclic side chain derivatives provided compounds, highlighted by 6, with an improved spectrum of ectoparasiticidal activity and pharmacokinetic profile relative to the natural product.
Progress toward molecular characterization of ectoparasite modulation of host immunity.	Ectoparasitic arthropods and vector-borne infectious agents are global medical and veterinary public health concerns. Economic impact due to direct effects of infestation and disease transmission are significant. These problems are increased by development of arthropod resistance to insecticides/acaricides; drug resistance of vector-borne pathogens; and, lack of effective vaccines to prevent many of these diseases. There is much to be gained from understanding the complex array of immunological interactions occurring at the arthropod-host-pathogen interface. One application of that knowledge is the development of novel vaccines for the control of both ectoparasitic arthropods and the diseases they transmit. We now realize that blood-feeding arthropods are not simply flying or crawling hypodermic needles and syringes. Ectoparasitic arthropods are not passive partners in their relationships with the immune systems of their hosts. These clever invertebrates produce numerous pharmacologically active molecules that help them migrate through tissues of their hosts or to successfully obtain blood meals. Arthropod parasites stimulate a spectrum of host immune responses that could potentially impair development, reduce feeding success, or kill the ectoparasite. Not unexpectedly, arthropods have developed sophisticated arsenals of countermeasures that modulate or deviate host immune responses. Not only does arthropod modulation of host immunity facilitate survival in tissues or increase the likelihood of obtaining a blood meal, but it is increasingly recognized as a critical factor in pathogen transmission. Those countermeasures to host immune defenses are the topics of this review. Emphasis is placed on our current understanding of the molecular bases of those changes; the molecules responsible for host immunomodulation; contemporary approaches for studying these complex relationships; and, the potential for using this information to develop innovative vaccine-based control strategies.
Use of repellents as prophylactic agents.	Many biting insects are able to transmit diseases or are a regarded as pests. The use of repellents is one personal protection measure to avoid to been bitten. The first components which were used for this purpose were of plant origin. Some are still used, e.g., citronella oil. Systematic evaluation of synthetic repellents began during the Second World War. The most important compound resulting from these efforts is Deet, followed by less important ones such as dimethylphthalate or ethyl hexane diol. Compounds of more recent research are MERCK 3535 (aminopropionic acid ethylester), p-menthane-3,8 diol, CIC 4 (a lacton) and the piperidine derivatives AI3-37220 and Bayrepel (Icaridin). An overview of the toxicity and efficacy is given. A chance to improve the cosmetic properties and long duration efficacy is the development of new formulations. Applications other than the dermal one are the use of repellents as slow release formulations to achieve a long range effect and the development of systemic compounds, which are taken orally. To date, neither strategy has led to successful solutions.
The spread of Q fever from animals to man; the natural history of a rickettsial disease.	The authors review the sources of R. burneti in nature. The organism has been isolated in ticks, domestic and wild animals, and birds. The maintenance of the infection in nature is discussed. The epidemiology of Q fever in man, and the manner in which the infection is transmitted by domestic animals, are described.
FURTHER STUDIES ON ANTIGENIC RELATIONSHIPS AMONG THE VIRUSES OF THE GROUP B TICK-BORNE COMPLEX.	This paper is a report on further studies of the antigenic relationships among viruses of the Group B tick-borne complex, carried out by the haemagglutination-inhibition (HI), complement-fixation, absorption-HI and diffusion-in-gel techniques. Earlier work has been extended to include Powassan and Negishi viruses.Comparisons of a number of strains of tick-borne viruses have revealed inter-strain variation only in the case of Omsk haemorrhagic fever virus, where two subtypes are distinguishable.This recognition of subtypes of Omsk virus has led the author to review the concept that Central European encephalitis and Russian spring-summer encephalitis viruses are distinct entities. On the basis of their close relationship, as well as new information on vectors and geographical range, she suggests that they be considered variant subtypes of one virus, designated Group B tick-borne encephalitis virus.
POWASSAN VIRUS: SUMMER INFECTION CYCLE, 1964.	Between May 1, and September 15, 1964, neutralizing antibody to Powassan virus was detected in sera from 163 of 464 forest mammals captured in the Powassan-North Bay area of northern Ontario. These included 159 of 358 groundhogs and four of 43 red squirrels. Acquisition of antibody by juvenile groundhogs occurred principally during July and August. Powassan virus strains were isolated from tick pools containing two to 15 Ixodes cookei per pool which were removed from eight of 91 groundhogs in three townships during May, July and August. Virus was also recovered from blood of two groundhogs during May. Powassan virus was re-isolated from five of six tick pools and two blood clots by inoculation of swine kidney tissue cultures. These findings strongly suggest that during 1964 Powassan virus was maintained in nature by a cycle involving groundhogs and I. cookei ticks.
Comparative activity of deet and AI3-37220 repellents against the ticks Ixodes scapularis and Amblyomma americanum (Acari: Ixodidae) in laboratory bioassays.	The repellents N,N-diethyl-3-methylbenzamide (deet) and racemic 2-methylpiperidinyl-3-cyclohexene-1-carboxamide (AI3-37220) were evaluated using two different laboratory bioassays to determine their relative effectiveness against host-seeking nymphs of the blacklegged tick, Ixodes scapularis Say, and the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum (L.). In a petri dish bioassay, ticks were released within a ring of repellent on a horizontal filter paper disk. In the second bioassay, ticks were allowed to climb a vertical strip of filter paper whose central portion was treated with a repellent. Deet and AI3-37220 were more effective against I. scapularis than A. americanum nymphs. In the petri dish bioassay, none of the concentrations of deet or AI3-37220 tested confined A. americanum within the treated ring. However, in the vertical bioassay, both species exhibited avoidance of the repellents, and I. scapularis was repelled by much lower concentrations than A. americanum. I. scapularis were repelled by lower concentrations in the vertical bioassay than in the petri dish bioassay. Deet was slightly more effective against I. scapularis than AI3-37220 in both bioassays, but AI3-37220 was significantly more effective than deet against A. americanum in the vertical bioassay.
A cross-sectional study of epizootic lymphangitis in cart-mules in western Ethiopia.	A cross-sectional study was conducted to determine the prevalence of epizootic lymphangitis (EL) in 309 cart-mules (cart-pulling mules) in Bako and Ejaji towns, Western Ethiopia using clinical and microbiological examinations, between November 2002 and April 2003. The overall prevalence was 21% (CI=16.6-26%). The clinical, histological and mycological characteristics of EL in a cart-mule were similar with those in a horse. There was significant (chi2=133.5, P=0.001) association between tick infestation and EL lesions in study cart-mules. Amblyoma coherence and Boophilus genera were the ticks collected from lesions of cases of EL, and thus played a predisposing role. In conclusion, our results showed that EL has high prevalence in cart-mules in the two towns.
Prevention of arthropod-related disease.	Arthropods of medical importance include vespids, ticks, mosquitoes, mites, flies, and fleas. They spread illness as disease vectors, are associated with lethal allergic reactions, and produce potentially deadly toxins. Strategies for prevention of illness include avoidance, vector reduction programs, chemoprophylaxis, and repellents. Strategies must be tailored to regional risks.
Risk factors for tick attachment to smallholder dairy cattle in Tanzania.	A cross-sectional study was conducted in Tanga and Iringa regions of Tanzania, and a longitudinal study in Tanga, to investigate tick-control methods and other factors influencing tick attachment to the cattle of smallholder dairy farms. Most farmers reported applying acaricides at intervals of 1-2 weeks, most used acaricides that require on-farm dilution and most farmers incorrectly diluted the acaricides. Rhipicephalus appendiculatus and Boophilus spp. ticks were those most-frequently encountered on the cattle, but few cattle carried ticks of any species (only 13 and 4.6% of tick counts of the cattle yielded adult R. appendiculatus and Boophilus spp., respectively). Animals were more likely to carry one or more adult Boophilus spp. ticks if they also carried one or more R. appendiculatus adults (OR=14.4, CI=9.2, 22.5). The use of pour-on acaricides was associated with lower odds that animals carried a R. appendiculatus tick (OR=0.29, CI=0.18, 0.49) but higher odds that they carried a Boophilus spp. tick (OR=2.48, CI=1.55, 3.97). Animals >4 months old and those with a recent history of grazing had higher odds of carrying either a R. appendiculatus (ORs=3.41 and 2.58, CIs=2.34, 4.98 and 1.80, 3.71), or a Boophilus spp. tick (ORs=5.70 and 2.18, CIs=2.34, 4.98 and 1.49. 3.25), but zero-grazing management did not prevent ticks attaching to cattle even when combined with high-frequency acaricide treatments. The odds that animals carried ticks varied amongst the agro-ecological zones (AEZs) and administrative districts where the farms were situated-but there was still considerable residual variation in tick infestation at the farm level.
A new focus of Rickettsia honei spotted fever in South Australia.	We recently diagnosed rickettsial spotted fever in four patients from the south-eastern coastal region of South Australia near Adelaide, an area not known to be endemic for this infection. All infections were acquired within the geographic range of Aponomma hydrosauri, the tick vector of Rickettsia honei. Infection by R. honei was confirmed in two patients. This extension of the known geographic range of R. honei infection may be explained, in part, by alterations in host-parasite ecology.
Efficacy of a combination of imidacloprid 10%/permethrin 50% versus fipronil 10%/(S)-methoprene 12%, against ticks in naturally infected dogs.	Preventing tick bites is a fundamental step towards reducing the impact of tick-borne protozoal, bacterial and viral diseases (TBDs) in humans and animals. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a combination of imidacloprid 10%/permethrin 50% and of fipronil 10%/S-methoprene 12% against ticks in naturally infected dogs and to assess methodological parameters to calculate drug efficacy on tick immature stages. From July to August 2004, 45 privately owned dogs of various sexes, ages, breeds, coat length and habits were enrolled in a trial carried out in an area (radius approximately 50km) in Southern Italy. Three homogeneous groups (both for dog population and tick population) were formed: 15 dogs treated with imidacloprid 10% and permethrin 50% spot-on (group A), 15 dogs treated with fipronil 10% and methoprene 12% spot-on (group B) and 15 untreated dogs (group C). The dogs in each group were then sub-grouped according to their age and weight. Two different treatments were administered (time 0 and +28 days) to groups A and B, and the dogs were checked weekly for tick infestation until day +56 post-treatment (p.t.). Twenty-four areas distributed on the whole body surface were examined for ticks at each follow-up, while only at time 0 and at day +56 p.t., ticks were collected from the dogs and identified. For the immature stages a semi-quantitative method was adopted and the load of immature stages was evaluated and grouped into four classes up to day +56 p.t. when the mean number of immature ticks (MIT) for each infection class was evaluated. All the adult ticks collected were identified as brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus). Immature stages were first compared at day +28 p.t.. The efficacy of both products used in groups A and B on adult ticks was high and generally very similar. Conversely, the efficacy of imidacloprid 10% and permethrin 50% against immatures was higher than that of fipronil 10% and methoprene 12% throughout the observation period with statistically significant differences (p<0.05) at day +28 p.t. (i.e. group A=98.52%, group B=72.40%). On the whole, in analysing the efficacy of both products against adult plus immature ticks, it was found that the combination of imidacloprid 10% and permethrin 50% was more effective than fipronil 10% and methoprene 12%, with the differences being statistically significant at day +28 p.t. (group A=98.43%, group B=77.56%).
Ixodes ricinus proven as a vector of Lyme borreliosis in Yugoslavia]	263 fasting female Ixodes ricinus were examined for Borrelia burgorferi, the vector of Lyme borreliosis. Female ticks were collected by flagella in the biotopes (Belgrade and Osijek) in which ticks bite patients with Lyme borreliosis. Borrelia burgorferi was proved in 58 (22%) of 263 female ticks in the native preparations of the intestinal contents by darkfield microscopy. In macerates of two groups of 5 female ticks each, Borrelia burgorferi was isolated by cultivation in the modified Kelly nutrient media for borrelia. The supposition that Ixodes ricinus is the vector of Lyme borreliosis in Yugoslavia is confirmed.
Prevention of Lyme disease.	Lyme disease and the use of tick repellents and physical protective measures to prevent the disease are discussed. Lyme disease is a multiple-organ-system, immune-mediated inflammatory disorder transmitted by the bites of ixodid ticks infected with Borrelia burgdorferi. An individual is at greatest risk for infection when a tick has been attached to the skin for more than 24 hours. Lyme disease occurs in three stages and may affect the skin, nervous system, cardiac system, and joints. Antimicrobials used in management consist primarily of penicillins, cephalosporins, tetracyclines, and erythromycin. Tick repellents are divided into those applied to the skin and those applied to clothing. Skin repellents include N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide (DEET), 2-ethyl-1,3-hexanediol, and dimethyl phthalate. Permethrin is by far the most effective clothing repellent. DEET plus a permethrin-containing clothing repellent offers the best overall protection. The adverse effects of repellents are minimal, but cases of hypersensitivity have been reported, especially in children. Physical measures to prevent tick bites include avoiding tick-infested areas, wearing light-colored clothing for easy identification of crawling ticks, regularly checking the body and pets for ticks, wearing protective garments and closed-toed shoes, and removing attached ticks promptly by using tweezers or forceps to apply a steady upward pull. A vaccine for the active immunization of humans against Lyme disease remains to be developed. Although antimicrobial therapy is available for persons with Lyme disease, the best approach for those who may be exposed to infected ticks is to apply topical skin or clothing repellents and to practice common-sense measures of physical protection.
Simultaneous control of ticks and tsetse flies in Satiri, Burkina Faso, by the use of flumethrin pour on for cattle.	Treatments of 2000 cattle at monthly intervals with flumethrin pour on (1 mg active ingredient/kg b.w.) resulted in a rapid decrease of African Animal Trypanosomosis (AAT). After an initial curative treatment of the sentinel herd with diminazene aceturate (7 mg/kg b.w.) only positive cases were treated. Three applications of flumethrin were sufficient to reduce the prevalence of AAT to below 5%. Apart from a slight increase at the end of the first year the infection rate varied between 0 and 5%. A tsetse population disappeared from a heavily infested habitat after six treatments. The average tick infestation was 3-10 times lower than in a control site inspite of the repeated use of another acaricide. Between 3282 and 8624 animals were treated five times in the second year at intervals of about two months. 130 monoconical insecticide impregnated traps were deployed in habitats which were inaccessible for the cattle. The highest infection rate of the sentinel herd was 1.4%. Among another 150 eartagged cattle scattered over a district of about 1000 m2 the prevalence of AAT dropped to 4.8% at the end of the second year. Emphasis is put on an active and financial participation of the rural communities to ensure a viable campaign and good prospects of a taking over by local organizations once the external interventions have stopped.
Comparative activity of three repellents against the ticks Rhipicephalus sanguineus and Argas persicus.	The residual repellent activity of N,N-diethylphenyl-acetamide (DEPA), N,N-diethyl-3-methyl benzamide (DEET) and dimethylphthalate (DMP) against the hard tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus (Latreille) and the soft tick Argas persicus (Oken) from topical application on rabbits and hens respectively in the laboratory have been studied. It was found that a 25% concentration of DEET gave strong repellency (greater than 90%) against larvae and nymphs of R. sanguineus for 15 and 7 days respectively and against A. persicus larvae and nymphs greater than 90% for 11 and 5 days respectively. Strong repellency (greater than 90%) against adults of the hard and soft ticks was observed for 9 and 7 days respectively with 40% DEET. DEPA at 25% concentration showed strong repellency (greater than 90%) against larvae and nymphs of R. sanguineus and A. persicus for 11 and 5 days respectively. Adults of hard and soft ticks were strongly repelled (greater than 90%) for 9 and 5 days respectively by 40% DEPA. DMP was found to be the least effective against all stages of both species of tick.
Reaction pathway for inhibition of blood coagulation factor Xa by tick anticoagulant peptide.	The reaction pathway for inhibition of human factor Xa (fXa) by recombinant tick anticoagulant peptide (rTAP) was studied by stopped-flow fluorometry. In the presence of the fluorogenic substrate N-tert-butyloxycarbonyl-L-isoleucyl-L-glutamylglycyl-L-arginyl-7-amido-4 - methylcoumarin (B-IEGR-AMC) and under pseudo-first-order conditions, inhibition appears to occur via a two-step process. Initially, a weak enzyme-inhibitor complex forms with a dissociation constant (Ki) of 68 +/- 6 microM. The initial complex then rearranges to a more stable fXa-rTAP complex with a rate constant (k2) of 123 +/- 5 s-1. The apparent second-order rate constant (k2/Ki) describing formation of the stable complex is (1.8 +/- 0.2) x 10(6) M-1 s-1. Studies of the reaction of rTAP with fXa in the presence of the fluorescent active-site probe p-amino-benzamidine (P) revealed a reaction pathway wherein rTAP initially binds to the fXa-P complex in a two-step process prior to displacing P from the active site. These results indicate that rTAP can bind fXa via a site distinct from the active site (an exosite). The subsequent displacement of P from the active site of fXa by rTAP exhibits a dependence on the concentration of P, indicating that rTAP is locked into the active site in a third step.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The conditions required for the maintenance of Onchocerca lienalis microfilariae in vitro.	Microfilariae of the bovine parasite Onchocerca lienalis were maintained in vitro using a tick cell line as a feeder layer, and under the conditions provided would develop to the sausage stage. A number of media supported this achievement with CMRL 1066 producing the highest yields, particularly when used in conjunction with either medium 199, HAM's F-12, RPMI 1640 or Mark's M20. The addition of inactivated foetal calf serum (iFCS) suppressed development; on the other hand, the addition of tryptose phosphate broth (TPB) enhanced it. The pH range of the medium preferred by the developing worms was 7.35-7.85, and the most favourable osmolality lay in the range 360 to 390 mosM/kg. Insect-derived hormones did not improve yields of developed larvae nor promote moulting to the second larval stage. The culture conditions described in this work, which favour parasite survival and development, provide further insights into the physiological requirements of filariae as well as guide lines to achieving successful in vitro maintenance of Onchocerca sp. A morphological examination of the developing larvae was carried out at electron microscopical level.
Characterizing the tick carboxypeptidase inhibitor: molecular basis for its two-domain nature.	Tick carboxypeptidase inhibitor (TCI) is a small, disulfide-rich protein that selectively inhibits metallocarboxypeptidases and strongly accelerates the fibrinolysis of blood clots. TCI consists of two domains that are structurally very similar, each containing three disulfide bonds arranged in an almost identical fashion. The oxidative folding and reductive unfolding pathways of TCI and its separated domains have been characterized by kinetic and structural analysis of the acid-trapped folding intermediates. TCI folding proceeds through a sequential formation of 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, and 6-disulfide species to reach the native form. Folding intermediates of TCI comprise two predominant 3-disulfide species (named IIIa and IIIb) and a major 6-disulfide scrambled isomer (Xa) that consecutively accumulate along the reaction and are strongly prevented by the presence of protein disulfide isomerase. This study demonstrates that IIIa and IIIb are 3-disulfide species containing the native disulfide pairings of the N- and C-terminal domains of TCI, respectively, and explains why the two domains of TCI fold sequentially and independently. Also, we show that the reductive unfolding of TCI undergoes two main independent unfolding events through the formation of IIIa and IIIb intermediates. Together, the comparison of the folding, stability, and inhibitory activity of TCI with those of the isolated domains reveals the reasons behind the two-domain nature of this protein: both domains contribute to the specificity and high affinity of its double-headed binding to carboxypeptidases. The results obtained herein provide valuable information for the design of more potent and selective TCI molecules.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever: case series from a medical center in Golestan province, Northeast of Iran (2004).	Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a widely distributed lethal disease, worldwide. Humans are usually infected with CCHF virus through a tick bite or close contact with viral contaminated tissues or with blood of domestic animals or of infected patients. The present study reports six cases of CCHF, who were in contact with both infected tissues and blood from sheep. In some regions like Golestan province (North of Iran), clinician suspicion may have an important role in early diagnosis and treatment of the disease. Conservative therapy (intensive monitoring) and prescription of antiviral medication (Ribavirin) accompanied with corticosteroids, was useful at the early stage of CCHF.
The Lyme vaccine: a cautionary tale.	People living in endemic areas acquire Lyme disease from the bite of an infected tick. This infection, when diagnosed and treated early in its course, usually responds well to antibiotic therapy. A minority of patients develops more serious disease, particularly after a delay in diagnosis or therapy, and sometimes chronic neurological, cardiac, or rheumatological manifestations. In 1998, the FDA approved a new recombinant Lyme vaccine, LYMErix, which reduced new infections in vaccinated adults by nearly 80%. Just 3 years later, the manufacturer voluntarily withdrew its product from the market amidst media coverage, fears of vaccine side-effects, and declining sales. This paper reviews these events in detail and focuses on the public communication of risks and benefits of the Lyme vaccine and important lessons learned.
Quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping of resistance to strongyles and coccidia in the free-living Soay sheep (Ovis aries).	A genome-wide scan was performed to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance to gastrointestinal parasites and ectoparasitic keds segregating in the free-living Soay sheep population on St. Kilda (UK). The mapping panel consisted of a single pedigree of 882 individuals of which 588 were genotyped. The Soay linkage map used for the scans comprised 251 markers covering the whole genome at average spacing of 15cM. The traits here investigated were the strongyle faecal egg count (FEC), the coccidia faecal oocyst count (FOC) and a count of keds (Melophagus ovinus). QTL mapping was performed by means of variance component analysis so that the genetic parameters of the study traits were also estimated and compared with previous studies in Soay and domestic sheep. Strongyle FEC and coccidia FOC showed moderate heritability (h(2)=0.26 and 0.22, respectively) in lambs but low heritability in adults (h(2)<0.10). Ked count appeared to have very low h(2) in both lambs and adults. Genome scans were performed for the traits with moderate heritability and two genomic regions reached the level of suggestive linkage for coccidia FOC in lambs (logarithm of the odds=2.68 and 2.21 on chromosomes 3 and X, respectively). We believe this is the first study to report a QTL search for parasite resistance in a free-living animal population and therefore may represent a useful reference for similar studies aimed at understanding the genetics of host-parasite co-evolution in the wild.
Laboratory diagnosis of Lyme borreliosis at the Portuguese National Institute of Health (1990-2004).	Lyme borreliosis is considered to be an emerging infection in some regions of the world, including Portugal. The first Portuguese human case of Lyme borreliosis was identified in 1989. Since 1999, this disease is considered a notifiable disease (DDO) in Portugal, but only a few cases are reported each year, which does not allow consistent analysis of risk factors and the impact on public health. In this study the authors analyse the data available at the Centre for Vectors and Infectious Diseases Research (CEVDI) laboratory, at the Instituto Nacional de Saude Dr. Ricardo Jorge (National Institute of Health, INSA) during the past 15 years (1990-2004) and evaluate them against the registry of national reported cases (1999-2004). Serological tests were the basis for laboratory diagnosis. Data on year of diagnosis, sex, age, geographical origin and clinical signs are available for 628 well documented Portuguese positive cases. The number of cases per year varied between 2 and 78, with the highest number of cases reported in 1997. Of the positive cases, 53.5% were female and the age group most affected was 35-44 years old. Neuroborreliosis was the most common clinical manifestation (37.3%). Human cases were detected in 17 of the 20 regions of Portugal, and the highest number of laboratory confirmed cases were from the Lisbon district. The comparison of the number of notified cases and the number of positive cases confirmed by our laboratory show that Lyme borreliosis is clearly an underreported disease. Due to the scattered distribution of the positive cases and the low prevalence of the tick species Ixodes ricinus, the most effective prevention measure for Lyme borreliosis in Portugal is education of the risk groups on how to prevent tick bites.
Strategies for primary and secondary prevention of Lyme disease.	Lyme disease (borreliosis) incidence continues to increase despite a growing knowledge of primary and secondary prevention strategies. Primary prevention aims to reduce the risk of tick exposure and thereby decrease the incidence of new Lyme disease cases. Secondary prevention targets the development of disease or reduces disease severity among people who have been bitten by infected ticks. Numerous prevention strategies are available, and although they vary in cost, acceptability and effectiveness, uptake has been universally poor. Research in areas where Lyme disease is endemic has demonstrated that despite adequate knowledge about its symptoms and transmission, many people do not perform behaviors to reduce their risk of infection. New prevention strategies should aim to increase people's confidence in their ability to carry out preventive behaviors, raise awareness of desirable outcomes, and aid in the realization that the necessary skills and resources are available for preventive measures to be taken. In this article we evaluate the prevention and treatment strategies for Lyme disease, and discuss how these strategies can be implemented effectively. As many patients with Lyme disease develop arthritis and are referred to rheumatologists it is important that these health-care providers can educate patients about disease-prevention strategies.
Wildlife, environment and (re)-emerging zoonoses, with special reference to sylvatic tick-borne zoonoses in North-Western Italy.	Over the last century, changes in land-use, modification of agriculture-livestock production systems, disruption of wildlife habitats, increase of human activities, higher frequency of international and intercontinental travels, wider circulation of animals and animal products have contributed to alter the distribution, presence and density of hosts and vectors. As a result, the number of emerging and reemerging diseases, including zoonoses, have greatly increased. Some infectious pathogens, originated in wild animals and/or maintained in sylvatic environments, have become increasingly important worldwide for their impact on wildlife, human health, livestock and agricultural production systems. In this paper, a synthesis of the information available on selected zoonoses of wildlife origin is given, with special reference to sylvatic tick-borne zoonoses in North-western Italy.
A Lyme borreliosis human serosurvey of asymptomatic adults in Ireland.	Blood samples were obtained through the Blood Transfusion Service in Ireland in order to obtain information on the prevalence of asymptomatic B. burgdorferi infections and in an attempt to identify the type of habitat that presents the most risk of infection. Areas in the country were rated as low, medium or high risk based on the availability of suitable tick habitat, access to the public and the distribution of deer, the latter parameter being related to both the occurrence of rodent reservoir hosts and woodland recreational areas. Approximately 100 plasma samples from each of four areas were analysed for IgG anti-Borrelia antibodies by indirect immuno-fluorescence with a titre of 1 :80 indicating a positive reaction in asymptomatic individuals. Prevalence figures of 15, 11, 8 and 5% were obtained for high, high/medium, medium/low and low risk areas respectively. No positive samples were detected in blood from an Icelandic population which is not exposed to I. ricinus bites. The overall subclinical prevalence (9.75%) is surprisingly high in view of the apparent rarity of clinical cases in Ireland, though under-diagnosis probably occurs. These results seem to indicate that farmland is less important than woodland as Lyme borreliosis habitat. If this is so, it is probably due to the presence in woodland of Apodemus sylvaticus, a putative reservoir host, and also to the use of such areas for recreation at certain times of the year.
Effectiveness of carbaryl applications for the control of Ixodes dammini (Acari: Ixodidae) nymphs in an endemic residential area.	Ground applications of carbaryl in early June 1989 reduced populations of nymphal Ixodes dammini Spielman, Clifford, Piesman & Corwin by 100% in five 0.4-ha residential sites 72 h after application. High levels of control (greater than 90%) persisted for almost 2 mo. Five nymphs were recovered at the periphery of the sprayed plots at two sites 2 wk after spraying and nine nymphs were collected at the periphery of the sprayed plots at three of the sites 4-5 wk after application. At 8 wk after application, I. dammini nymphs were recovered within three of the sprayed plots. Chemical control of nymphal I. dammini may be a viable management practice for homeowners living in endemic areas to reduce the chances of acquiring Lyme disease.
Tick-borne zoonoses: Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever.	The primary health risk for veterinary staff and companion pet owners is exposure to ticks in the wooded/pasture areas or to ticks brought indoors by their pets. There are no proven cases of direct animal to human transmission for Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, or Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Direct inoculation of blood from a bacteremic animal, eg, by needle stick is a theoretical, but, so far, undocumented health risk. However, veterinarians should record needle sticks or other inoculation-type injuries that occur in their practices. Prevention of Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, and other tick-borne diseases depends on the avoidance of tick-infested areas and proper use of repellents and acaricides.
Spotted fever group rickettsial infections in Australia.	More than four decades ago, Rickettsia australis was discovered to be the etiologic agent of Queensland tick typhus (QTT), yet many unanswered questions persist about the ecology, epidemiology, and clinical features of this disease. We review 46 previously published cases of QTT along with 16 cases discovered by active surveillance. QTT is usually a mild disease. Patients often have regional lymphadenopathy and eschars. Some have vesicular rashes. Because clinical features overlap, serologic tests are necessary to distinguish QTT from other endemic Australian rickettsial diseases (scrub and murine typhus). Only two tick vectors of R. australis have been identified: Ixodes holocyclus and Ixodes tasmani. Until rickettsiae are isolated from patients in Victoria and Tasmania, it remains unproven that spotted fever group infections in these locations are due to R. australis. However, available serologic, epidemiologic, and clinical data suggest that QTT is not confined to the area in which R. australis was first isolated (Queensland); rather, it occurs along a 3,200-km span of eastern coastal Australia, from tropical to temperate climates.
Epidemiologic characteristics of human tularemia in the southwest-central states, 1981-1987.	From 1981 through 1987, a total of 1,041 cases of tularemia in humans were reported in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Texas; this represents 60% of the cases reported in the United States during this same time period. The state of Arkansas reported the highest total (420 cases). Annual incidence rates per one million population ranged from 36.3 in Arkansas to less than 5.0 in Kansas, Louisiana, and Texas. Epidemiologic data were available for 1,026 cases. The majority of cases were white (88%) and male (75%). May, June, and July were the months of onset of symptoms for 52% of the cases. For the cases with known exposure history, 63% reported an attached tick and 23% had exposure to rabbits. Other animals associated with human infection were squirrels, cats, and raccoons. The case-fatality ratio was 2%. Public health efforts to prevent human tularemia cases in the six southwest-central states should focus on reducing exposure to ticks.
Invited review: Are adaptations present to support dairy cattle productivity in warm climates?	Environmental heat stress, present during warm seasons and warm episodes, severely impairs dairy cattle performance, particularly in warmer climates. It is widely viewed that warm climate breeds (Zebu and Sanga cattle) are adapted to the climate in which they evolved. Such adaptations might be exploited for increasing cattle productivity in warm climates and decrease the effect of warm periods in cooler climates. The literature was reviewed for presence of such adaptations. Evidence is clear for resistance to ticks and tick-transmitted diseases in Zebu and Sanga breeds as well as for a possible development of resistance to ticks in additional breeds. Development of resistance to ticks demands time; hence, it needs to be balanced with potential use of insecticides or vaccination. The presumption of higher sweating rates in Zebu-derived breeds, based upon morphological differences in sweat glands between breeds, has not been substantiated. Relatively few studies have examined hair coat characteristics and their responses to seasonal heat, particularly in temperate climate breeds. Recently, a gene for slick hair coat has been observed that improved heat tolerance when introduced into temperate climate breeds. No solid evidence exists that hair coat in these lines is lighter than in well-fed warm climate-adapted Holsteins. Warm climate breeds and their F1 crosses share as dominant characteristics lower maintenance requirements and milk yields, and limited response to improved feeding and management. These characteristics are not adaptations to a feed-limited environment but are constitutive and useful in serving survival when feed is scarce and seasonal and high temperatures prevail. The negative relationship between milk yield and fertility present in temperate climates breeds also prevails in Zebu cattle. Fertility impairment by warm conditions might be counteracted in advanced farming systems by extra corporeal early embryo culture. In general, adaptations found in warm climate cattle breeds did not increase heat dissipation capacity, but rather diminished climate-induced strain by decreasing milk production. The negative relationship between reproductive efficiency and milk yield, although relatively low, also appears in Zebu cattle. This association, coupled with limited feed intake, acting over millennia, probably created the selection pressure for a low milk production in these breeds.
The diagnostic usefulness of dermoscopy for identifying six-legged larval ticks.	Ticks are vectors of a variety of diseases such as Lyme disease and Japanese spotted fever. We examined an 87-year-old female with multiple tick bites by at least 236 larval Amblyomma testudinarium infestations. Numerous tick bites are generally caused by the six-legged larvae, which were verified in this case by dermoscopy. The present case indicates the diagnostic usefulness of dermoscopy for six-legged larval tick bites.
Evidence for the 'good genes' model: association of MHC class II DRB alleles with ectoparasitism and reproductive state in the neotropical lesser bulldog bat, Noctilio albiventris.	The adaptive immune system has a major impact on parasite resistance and life history strategies. Immunological defence is costly both in terms of immediate activation and long-term maintenance. The 'good genes' model predicts that males with genotypes that promote a good disease resistance have the ability to allocate more resources to reproductive effort which favours the transmission of good alleles into future generations. Our study shows a correlation between immune gene constitution (Major Histocompatibility Complex, MHC class II DRB), ectoparasite loads (ticks and bat flies) and the reproductive state in a neotropical bat, Noctilio albiventris. Infestation rates with ectoparasites were linked to specific Noal-DRB alleles, differed among roosts, increased with body size and co-varied with reproductive state particularly in males. Non-reproductive adult males were more infested with ectoparasites than reproductively active males, and they had more often an allele (Noal-DRB*02) associated with a higher tick infestation than reproductively active males or subadults. We conclude that the individual immune gene constitution affects ectoparasite susceptibility, and contributes to fitness relevant trade-offs in male N. albiventris as suggested by the 'good genes' model.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum: deceptively simple or simply deceptive?	Anaplasma phagocytophilum is an obligate intracellular rickettsial pathogen transmitted by ixodid ticks. This bacterium colonizes myeloid and nonmyeloid cells and causes human granulocytic anaplasmosis--an important immunopathological vector-borne disease in the USA, Europe and Asia. Recent studies uncovered novel insights into the mechanisms of A. phagocytophilum pathogenesis and immunity. Here, we provide an overview of the underlying events by which the immune system responds to A. phagocytophilum infection, how this pathogen counteracts host immunity and the contribution of the tick vector for microbial transmission. We also discuss current scientific gaps in the knowledge of A. phagocytophilum biology for the purpose of exchanging research perspectives.
Assessment of the potential contribution of the highly conserved C-terminal motif (C10) of Borrelia burgdorferi outer surface protein C in transmission and infectivity.	OspC is produced by all species of the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex and is required for infectivity in mammals. To test the hypothesis that the conserved C-terminal motif (C10) of OspC is required for function in vivo, a mutant B. burgdorferi strain (B31::ospCΔC10) was created in which ospC was replaced with an ospC gene lacking the C10 motif. The ability of the mutant to infect mice was investigated using tick transmission and needle inoculation. Infectivity was assessed by cultivation, qRT-PCR, and measurement of IgG antibody responses. B31::ospCΔC10 retained the ability to infect mice by both needle and tick challenge and was competent to survive in ticks after exposure to the blood meal. To determine whether recombinant OspC protein lacking the C-terminal 10 amino acid residues (rOspCΔC10) can bind plasminogen, the only known mammalian-derived ligand for OspC, binding analyses were performed. Deletion of the C10 motif resulted in a statistically significant decrease in plasminogen binding. Although deletion of the C10 motif influenced plasminogen binding, it can be concluded that the C10 motif is not required for OspC to carry out its critical in vivo functions in tick to mouse transmission. 
Infectious diseases transmitted by ticks. A short overview of infectious diseases transmitted by ticks in Europe]	The European clinician must expect to encounter at least nine different diseases that can be transmitted to humans by the bite of a tick. Of late, more and more infectious diseases are being associated with these vectors. The aim of this article is, therefore, to briefly describe these tick-borne diseases, their diagnosis and treatment.
Control of induced infestations of three African multihost tick species with sustained-release ivermectin.	The efficacy of ivermectin, released intraruminally from a 28-day-delivery device was evaluated in two titration studies against induced infestations of adult Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, R. evertsi and Hyalomma truncatum on cattle. Cattle were given a sufficient number of devices to release ivermectin at approximately 20, 40, 60 or 80 micrograms kg-1 day-1 at a steady-state rate 7-28 days after administration. Tick mortality was recorded, engorged female ticks were weighed and individually incubated, and reproductive data were recorded to determine a reproductive index for the species at various dose levels. Mortality of male and female ticks compared to that of controls was directly related to the daily dose of ivermectin, as was the number of ticks not engorging. Ticks fed on ivermectin-treated cattle had a smaller mass when engorged and laid smaller egg-masses, both absolutely and as a proportion of engorged mass. The index of reproduction of R. appendiculatus was reduced by more than 99.9% at 20 micrograms kg-1 day-1, and the reproductive indices of R. evertsi and H. truncatum were reduced by more than 99.9% at dose rates of 40 micrograms kg-1 day-1 and above. Practical implications of the application of sustained-release ivermectin for the control of multihost ticks and tick-borne diseases are discussed.
Limb and joint pain in Lyme disease. An important differential neurologic diagnosis]	On the basis of 4 cases, attention is drawn to the problem of early detection of Lyme disease. The occurrence of joint pain with fluctuating spread and unresponsive to the usual antiinflammatory therapy should prompt the physician to consider lyme disease, which can be confirmed or excluded only by lumbar puncture. The CSF shows a cell count of between 300/3 and 2,000/3 cells (90% lymphocytes) and usually moderately elevated protein. A demonstration of elevated antibody titers confirms the diagnosis. The condition can be cured with antibiotics (penicillins or cephalosporins) and also cerebral nerve involvement (usual the facial nerve) with or without impairment of taste also clears up completely.
Ear punch biopsy method for detection and isolation of Borrelia burgdorferi from rodents.	An ear punch biopsy method for the detection and isolation of Borrelia burgdorferi from rodents was developed. The ear punch biopsy proved to be extremely sensitive, detecting spirochetes in 100% (11 of 11) of laboratory hamsters infected by tick bite and 95.8% (23 of 24) of hamsters infected by intraperitoneal inoculation. When cultured at 4 to 6 weeks postinfection, 92 to 100% of the ear punches taken from individual hamsters yielded viable spirochetes. B. burgdorferi was detected in sequential cultures from animals as early as 4 days postinfection and as late as 20 weeks postinfection. A total of 86% (6 of 7) of field-collected white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) which were positive for B. burgdorferi as determined by xenodiagnosis were also positive by the ear punch method. The ear punch biopsy method allows individual rodents to be sampled for B. burgdorferi serially over a long period and thus should prove useful for both field and laboratory experiments.
Identification of Borrelia burgdorferi and B. hermsii using DNA hybridization probes.	Fragments of plasmid DNA from Borrelia burgdorferi and B. hermsii were cloned and tested for specificity as hybridization probes to identify these two species of pathogenic spirochetes. Three fragments from the 49-kilobase-pair linear plasmid of B. burgdorferi were tested: a 500-base-pair (bp) HindIII fragment (probe 49A), a 445-bp PstI-HindIII fragment (probe 3G), and a 320-bp HindIII fragment (probe 16H). When hybridized to purified DNA or whole spirochetes, all of the probes distinguished B. burgdorferi from the other species examined, including B. hermsii, B. parkeri, B. turicatae, B. coriaceae, B. crocidurae, and B. anserina. Probe 49A was the most useful, however, hybridizing with all strains of B. burgdorferi originating from both North America and Europe while not cross-hybridizing with B. hermsii. A 790-bp HindIII fragment of B. hermsii DNA hybridized with DNA and whole spirochetes of this species and also with B. parkeri, confirming the close relatedness of these two species. These probes provide a new method of identifying these Borrelia species once the organisms have been grown in culture.
Changes in the concentration of globulins in naive guinea pigs during feeding by the immature stages of Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi (Acari: Ixodidae).	The weight of Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi Neumann nymphs, which as larvae and nymphs completed the entire blood meal on the same individual guinea pig, was significantly lower than the weight of those that as larvae and nymphs fed on two separate naive hosts. Nymphs of the latter category spent 1 wk (from unfed larvae to unfed nymphs) on one animal before their transfer to the second host to complete the blood meal. The albumin concentration of the host blood decreased and was related to the time that the immature ticks spent on the hosts. The albumin/globulin ratio also decreased. The alpha 1 globulin fraction increased soon after the guinea pigs were infested with ticks. No further changes in the levels of the alpha 1 globulin fraction were observed with time. The concentration of serum beta globulins increased only in guinea pigs infested with immature ticks for the entire larval and nymphal feeding period. A second infestation of those guinea pigs with larvae of R. e. evertsi resulted in further increases in the levels of serum beta globulins. The relationships among serum beta globulin levels, the weight of engorged nymphs, and host immunity are discussed.
Correlation of the relative population count of ixodid ticks with various recording methods]	Data are given on the relative abundance ratio of 3 species of ixodid ticks obtained by different counting methods.
Pericarditis associated with tick-borne Q fever.	A case of pericarditis associated with Q fever is described. Transmission was probably via an arthropod vector, which was most likely the kangaroo tick Amblyomma triguttatum. Complete recovery occurred in association with the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents only. This is a rare presentation of Q fever implicating transmission by a novel vector.
Incidence of hemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies for Bhanja virus in humans along the north-west border of Yugoslavia.	By the hemagglutination-inhibition test with the Yugoslav strain of Bhanja virus, the sera of 380 youngsters residing in the region along the Yugoslav-Hungarian border (North Croatia) and 367 sera from newcomers to the area from various parts of Yugoslavia were examined. The testing included 154 sera of the youngsters who had came to the region along the Yugoslav-Italian border (Slovenia) without antibodies for Bhanja virus and were staying there for a year. Hemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies for BHA virus were found in the sera of 5.53% examined natives of North Croatia, while in the newcomers after one-year stay in the area HI antibodies for the virus were confirmed in 3.27% of the sera examined. HI antibodies for BHA virus were found in 1.95% sera of the 154 youngsters who had come to the study area along the Yugoslav-Italian border (after one-year stay in the area). These results suggest a recent circulation of Bhanja virus in the regions studied. It is important to point out that the presence of the tick Haemaphysalis punctata, the principal vector of Bhanja virus in Europe, was evidenced in both regions.
Characterization of species and strains of Theileria.	A variety of methods is now available for characterizing species and strains of Theileria. For many practical purposes involving field control of theileriosis, characterization on a broad basis may be sufficient, but in other areas much more precise characterization is required. Such precision can be usefully exploited only when cloned parasite populations are involved, and methods to improve parasite characterization and parasite cloning should be developed concurrently. The current methods of immunization against theileriosis involve the use of live parasite populations which are generally poorly defined and, in addition, have the capacity to undergo biological change (by selection, mutation or genetic recombination) within hosts and vectors. Such changes may be difficult to define and identify, but could have profound effects on immunization strategies. Improved methods of parasite characterization and selection, which are now becoming available, will enable parasite stocks for immunization to be identified and selected more precisely, and any biological changes that occur can be monitored. Improved methods of parasite characterization will also open the way to a better understanding of Theileria genetics and the mechanisms of heritability, which appear to differ in some fundamental ways from patterns of Mendelian inheritance. Controlled matings between selected and defined populations of parasites can be envisaged, with the aim of producing hybrid parasites for immunization. In addition, the prospects of modifying the theilerial genome by genetic manipulation become very real: transfection vectors tailored by restriction enzymes could be used to insert or modify gene sequences to develop parasites with appropriate sets of characters. It may also be possible to identify parasite genes which trigger the cytotoxic response which is so important in immunity (Eugui and Emery, 1981; Emery et al., 1981; Preston et al., 1983). Such genes might then be transfected into bovine host lymphocytes to generate immunity against the whole parasite (Iams, 1985). The gene products which are responsible for stimulating immune responses could also be synthesized artificially and used for vaccination. Methods of characterizing Theileria range from Giemsa's staining to DNA hybridization; all have a role to play, and by judicious selection of appropriate methods for particular circumstances, it is becoming possible to characterize theilerial parasites very precisely. Improved methods of characterization can, in turn, lead to a better understanding of parasite biology and to the development of improved methods of immunization and control.
Isolation and characterization of bovine Theileria parasites in Zimbabwe.	Theilerial parasites of cattle were isolated by a variety of methods from the Harare area of Zimbabwe. Parasite stocks were established in lymphoid cell cultures and as cryopreserved sporozoite stabilates in the laboratory. Fourteen stocks in culture were characterized by testing them with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) raised against T. parva parva and T. parva lawrencei antigen. Two of these stocks had profiles similar to T. taurotragi isolates from East Africa, the other stocks had profiles similar to T. parva parva, however, many of them failed to bind MAb No. 7, and this may be a distinctive feature for T. parva bovis. Three T. p. bovis stocks were titrated by injecting different doses of the respective stabilates into pairs of cattle. Reactions ranged from severe to inapparent according to the stocks and dose used, but no fatal reactions were recorded, even at the highest dose rate. On recovery, all cattle were given homologous and then heterologous challenge. The results of the latter challenge showed that the Boleni stock gave good cross-protection against challenge with two other Zimbabwean stocks. This stock may therefore be a candidate for immunizing cattle, under field conditions, to protect them against T. p. bovis in Zimbabwe. Non-pathogenic strains of T. p. bovis may be difficult to distinguish from T. taurotragi unless cross-challenge experiments can be conducted and/or MAb profiles have been made. An improved serological test is needed to differentiate antibodies to these parasites in the sera of recovered cattle.
Tick-borne diseases.	Tick-borne diseases have their peak incidence in the spring and summer. The different infections caused by tick vectors have certain geographic locations and unique clinical presentations. The most common tick-transmitted infection is Lyme disease. Early diagnosis of tick-borne disease is essential so that effective and, in some cases, lifesaving antibiotic therapy can be instituted. Preventive measures are simple.
Lyme disease: the latest great imitator.	Lyme disease is caused by the spirochete B. burgdorferi. Like its counterpart syphilis, it causes multisystem disease particularly affecting the skin, nervous system, heart and musculoskeletal system. It is endemic in several areas of the United States as well as in Europe. The prompt recognition of this disease and its diverse manifestations should lead to early treatment and resolution. Prevention is aimed at avoidance of the tick vector.
Kinetic properties of toxic protease inhibitors isolated from tick eggs.	1. Egg-toxins from Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, Boophilus microplus, Boophilus decoloratus and Hyalomma truncatum were found to be inhibitors of trypsin and in two cases also of chymotrypsin. 2. Fast tight-binding and slow-binding inhibition were observed. 3. Immunological identity of the toxins were assessed with Ouchterlony immunodiffusion and ELISA. 4. The protease content of B. decoloratus and Amblyomma hebraeum tick eggs were determined by a linked enzyme assay. 5. The predictive value of the kinetic constants in inferring a possible physiological role was discussed.
Polymyalgia rheumatica following Borrelia infection]	The case of a 84-year old woman is presented who developed a polymyalgia rheumatica/giant cell arteritis (PMR/GCA)-syndrome following a tick bite. Elevated titers of IgG-antibodies (indirect immunofluorescence and ELISA) as well as IgM (Immunoblot) against Borrelia burgdorferi antigens were found in her serum. When a total of 19 patients with PMR/GCA-syndrome was tested serologically, elevated or borderline IgG-titers against Borrelia antigens were detected in 12 of them (= 63%). Hence, Borrelia infection may be viewed as a potential trigger mechanism of a PMR/GCA-syndrome.
Lyme disease and babesiosis: acaricide focused on potentially infected ticks.	Permethrin-treated cotton, intended as rodent nesting material, was distributed in wooded sites in which the agents of Lyme disease and babesiosis were enzootic, in order to kill immature Ixodes dammini, the ticks that transmit these human pathogens. Such ticks feed most abundantly on white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), apparently the main reservoir hosts of these agents, and tend to concentrate in mouse burrows. Mice captured after permethrin-treated cotton was distributed, were infested by a tenth as many ticks as were those captured in adjacent nontreated sites, a difference that continued throughout the 4-month period of observation. On average, 72% of all mice captured in treated sites were free of ticks, while virtually all mice captured in nontreated sites were infested. Voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus), however, were tick-infested, regardless of site of capture. Laboratory-reared I. dammini failed to attach to mice captured in treated sites, and most such exposed ticks died. Distribution of permethrin-treated cotton appears to be a means for preventing transmission of the pathogens that cause human babesiosis and Lyme disease.
Tick-bite meningoradiculoneuritis: clinical, electrophysiologic, and histologic findings in 10 cases.	We studied 10 adults with meningoradiculitis several weeks after a tick bite (Ixodes). EMG evidence of denervation was associated with normal motor conduction velocities, prolongation of distal latencies, and low sensory amplitudes, suggesting axonal neuropathy. Sural nerve biopsies confirmed the axonal involvement. Infiltrations of lymphocytes and plasma cells, sometimes forming thick pericapillary cuffs with no accompanying necrosis of vessel walls, were numerous. Many capillaries of the endoneurium, perineurium, and epineurium were affected in this way.
Tick bite fever]	Tick bite fever (boutonneuse fever) is endemic in India, Africa and especially the Mediterranean countries. It is occasionally "imported" into central European countries by tourists. The exanthematic disease is caused by infection with Rickettsia conori, which is usually transmitted by the brown dog tick. A typical primary lesion at the site of the tick's bite is an important diagnostic hint. The treatment of choice are tetracyclines.
South African tick bite fever]	Two male patients developed South African tick bite fever after visits to South Africa. The clinical and laboratory findings in this condition, which is rarely seen in central Europe, are presented and its differential diagnosis to other rickettsial diseases is discussed.
Heartwater infection (cowdriosis) in a sitatunga (Tragelaphus spekei) in Nigeria.	Cowdria ruminantium was isolated from a natural infection of heartwater in a captive sitatunga (Tragelaphus spekei) which died after a short illness in Jos Zoo, Nigeria. The isolate killed laboratory mice in a shorter period of time than did isolates of C. ruminantium recovered from natural cases in cattle. This is the first confirmed case of heartwater in a captive wild ruminant in Nigeria, where the disease is endemic.
Ectoparasites of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) from South Dakota.	During the summers of 1982 and 1983, black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) were examined for parasites. Those collected and their respective prevalence included Linognathoides cynomyis (46.3%), Opisocrostis hirsutus (53.7%), Opisocrostis tuberculatus cynomuris (2.4%), Androlaelaps fahrenholzi (12.2%), Ixodes sculptus (2.4%) and Dermacentor andersoni (4.9%). The collection data indicated that L. cynomyis, O. hirsutus and A. fahrenholzi were at low population densities during this period.
Unexplained febrile illnesses after exposure to ticks. Infection with an Ehrlichia?	The Ehrlichia are tick-borne rickettsial organisms that cause disease in animals throughout the world but that have been previously recognized as human pathogens only in Asia. We have identified six patients with serological evidence of recent infection with an Ehrlichia: a fourfold or greater rise or fall in titer to Ehrlichia canis. All of the patients reported recent tick bites. Rigors, myalgia, headache, nausea, and anorexia were each reported by five patients. Fever was present in all patients and was accompanied by relative bradycardia and leukopenia in five patients, thrombocytopenia and abnormal liver function test results in four, and anemia in three. Five of the six patients were treated with tetracycline hydrochloride, and all recovered. Infection with Ehrlichia should be considered in patients with unexplained febrile illnesses after tick exposure.
IgG subclasses of specific antibodies in Ixodes ricinus-borne borreliosis.	Ixodes ricinus-borne borreliosis may run a protracted course. In this study we investigated the different IgG subclasses of antibodies to borreliae at different stages of the disease. In addition to the dominant subclass IgG1 and IgG3 response was found in most cases. This antibody subclass pattern with contributions of IgG2 often persists into the late stage of the disease and may last for decades. The IgG subclass response elicited by this spirochaetosis does not conform to the expected IgG4 restricted response after chronic antigenic stimulation.
Acute and chronic diseases in transmitted borreliosis by tick bite]	We report on clinical and laboratory findings of 58 study patients with tick-bite burrelia burgdorferi-infection. In seven cases, chronic borreliosis like a tertiary metaluetic illness was recognized. All were treated either with high-dose penicillin intravenously or tetracycline. Results of treatment and recommendations are given.
Chronic Borrelia disease of the central nervous system]	A few years ago meningoradiculitis Garin-Bujadoux-Bannwarth (Bannwarth's syndrome) was discovered to be a neurological manifestation of Lyme disease transmitted by tick-bites and caused by Ixodes-ricinus-spirochaete (borrelia burgdorferi). Not enough attention is given to the fact that more serious and chronic disease of the central nervous system may be entailed. Two cases are reported in which detection of the borrelian-antibodies corroborated the diagnosis. After parenteral treatment with penicillin there was a drastic improvement in both patients.
Studies in the field of tick-borne blood parasites]	A review of 'piroplasmosis' (a collective name tick-borne protozoan forms of disease of the blood (babesiasis, theileriasis) as well as rickettsial forms (anaplasmosis), written by De Blieck and published in 1916, is compared with the present state of our knowledge. Considerable progress has been made in classifying the causative agents. Moreover, the situation in the Netherlands has become much clearer. However, as regards the situation in the tropics, progress in control is rather limited and these forms of disease continue to be of major economic importance. The use of ascaricides is becoming increasingly confronted with problems and, in particular conditions, the use of cattle characterised by a considerable genetically acquired ability to produce an immune response to ticks is growing. In addition, it is hoped that it will be possible to immunise animals both against ticks and against tick-borne disease using characterised antigens produced by modern biotechnological methods in the future. Finally, a warning note is sounded that the active role of the faculty of veterinary science in the field of tropical veterinary medicine could well be reduced in the near future as a result of economies and changes of structure.
Efficacy of parvaquone and long-acting oxytetracycline in Theileria annulata infection.	Therapeutic and prophylactic efficacies of parvaquone and long-acting oxytetracycline were tested against Theileria annulata infection, induced by injecting a suspension of infected ground tick tissues (GUTS) into groups of 4 or 5 calves. This infection killed two of four control calves, while all the animals given a single intramuscular dose of 20 mg kg-1 parvaquone or long-acting oxytetracycline on the day of infection underwent mild reactions and recovered. Two separate doses of parvaquone of 10 mg kg-1 administered on the first and second days of fever protected four out of five calves. All the recovered animals from both treated and control groups resisted a homologous challenge with GUTS on Day 45 post-infection which killed three out of four susceptible unimmunized control calves.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XX. Arthropod parasites of the Cape mountain zebra (Equus zebra zebra).	The arthropod parasite burdens of 14 Cape mountain zebra (Equus zebra zebra), shot for survey purposes in the Mountain Zebra National Park in the eastern Cape Province, were determined. Three species of Gasterophilus larvae and 9 ixodid tick species were recovered. Larvae of Gasterophilus pecorum were the most numerous of the fly larvae recovered and Margaropus winthemi was the most abundant tick. Two horses examined in the park were infested with 3 species of Gasterophilus larvae and 7 species of ixodid ticks.
Preliminary bluetongue Transmission with the sheep ked Melophagus ovinus (L.).	Five experiments indicated that the sheep ked MELOPHAGUS OVINUS (L.), can transmit bluetongue virus (BTV) in sheep. It was not determined whether these were mechanical or biological transmissions, although the results suggested mechanical transmission. Sheep keds were manually transferred from a BTV-host sheep to 18 susceptible test sheep. Of these, 10 were positive (5 with mild reactions), 6 questionable, and 2 negative for BTV. Three of the mildly reacting sheep and 3 of the questionable sheep had highly intensified reactions on challenge inoculation. Five of the positive sheep were immune on challenge inoculation. Blood from 2 positive reactors was subpassaged into susceptible sheep, which reacted with typical disease signs.
The susceptibility of muskrats and snowshoe hares to experimental infection with a chlamydial agent.	Muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus) and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) were exposed experimentally by various routes to a chlamydial agent (designated strain M56) originally isolated during a die-off of muskrats and snowshoe hares which occurred in Saskatchewan during 1961. Both species were susceptible to experimental infection. Whereas M56 was highly lethal for snowshoe hares (18 deaths/19 exposed), it was less virulent for muskrats (6 deaths/20 exposed). The degree of susceptibility of muskrats to induced infections with M56 was influenced by the presence or absence of specific antibodies at the time of exposure. A febrile illness was observed in 11 of 20 muskrats. In the six that died, widespread focal necrosis was found in the liver. Following intraperitoneal or oral exposures, chronic infections were established and the agent was recovered from the brain and the small intestine up to 96 days post-infection. Specific antibodies were found in 11.8% of 127 sera of muskrats trapped form the wild in Saskatchewan, the Canadian Arctic, and Wisconsin. In snowshoe hares, M56 induced an acute, febrile, emaciating illness, and the almost invariable fatal course was short with terminal signs of opisthotonos, convulsions, and hypoglycemia. Snowshoe hares succumbed with intravenous doses of less than ten mouse intracerebral LD(50) of M56. The same syndrome was produced by intravenous, subcutaneous, and oral infections. M56 was found in high titers in all tissues examined. The highest titers were found in the liver and spleen which correlated with the pathology observed. M56 was recovered from female rabbit ticks (Haemaphysalis leporispalustris) engorging on experimentally infected snowshoe hares.
Toxic effects produced in insects by organophosphorus compounds.	This paper reviews the toxicity of organophosphorus compounds in relation to cholinesterase inhibition in insects. It covers anticholinesterase effects on different stages of the life cycle and the relationship between cholinesterase inhibition and lethality. Other effects of organophosphorus compounds, which may account for anomalies in insecticidal action, are also considered.
Susceptibility of Brazilian samples of Boophilus microplus to organophosphorus acaricides.	This paper describes the susceptibility of various samples of Boophilus microplus from the southern region of Minas Gerais State in Brazil to the 4 commonest organophosphorus acaricides employed in the area. All samples showed some degree of resistance to each of the compounds used. The resistance factor varied from 1.42 to 132.90, being less in the case of dicrotophos fenthion than with chlorpyrifos and coumaphos.
Lymphocyte populations and subpopulations in some lymphoproliferative dermatoses.	We present a study of lymphocyte populations and subpopulations as seen in histological cuts of skin with malignant and benign lymphoproliferative alterations using the immunological and histochemical techniques later described. Disclosed are the results of samples obtained of lymphocyte populations which were used to help differentiate between said alterations. It is proven that in T cell lymphomas. The infiltrate is dominated by markers for EA IgM which correlates with the results of other authors in peripheral blood.
Epizootiology of aegyptianellosis in poultry]	Epizootiologic studies were carried out on avian aegyptianellosis, especially with birds raised at poultry dressing combines and industrial poultry farms within the country. It was found that the mechanism of infection transmission was mediated not only by the role of Argas persicus ticks but also by bed bug insects of the Cimex genus, belonging to the Hemiptera order. Carriers of aegyptianellosis might also be migratory birds coming from tropical countries, such as swallows. It is concluded that avian aegyptianellosis can be referred to the group of the natural focal transmissive infections.
Population density of Ixodes persulcatus ticks (Ixodidae) in the western Sikhote-Alin]	The paper presents data on the population density of active ticks in different landscape zones of West Sykhote-Alyn as well as the material on the absolute abundance of ticks in four experimental 400 m2 areas. The abundance of active Ixodes persulcatus and Haemaphysalis japonica on vegetation at the peak of their activity was found to amount to half of all hibernated adult ticks.
Can arboviruses from seabird colonies in Brittany infect man?]	Four tick-borne arboviruses circulate heavily and permanently among the seabirds colonies located along the coasts of Brittany: Soldado, Zaliv Terpeniya, Avalon and a member of Tyuleniy subgroup of flaviviruses. In order to appreciate the ability of these viruses to infect man, the authors studied for antibodies the sera of farmers living in South-Finistere, in the vicinity of Cape Sizun seabirds reserve. Antibodies were actually found on 14 of 474 farmers, or 3.0 per cent, substantiating the reality of infection by these agents. The possible mechanisms of the contamination and the eventual pathologic results of these viral infections are discussed.
Oropharyngeal tularemia.	A case of oropharyngeal tularemia mimicking a peritonsillar abscess is presented. This diagnosis should be entertained in patients who are seen initially with ulcerative-exudative pharyngitis with or without tonsillitis and whose routine cultures are negative and/or are unresponsive to penicillin. Institution of appropriate therapy depends largely on the clinical diagnosis because cultures on ordinary media are routinely negative, and it takes several days for antibody titers to reach diagnostic significance.
Boutonneuse fever and tourism]	In the last few years some cases of boutonneuse fever have been "imported" into Central and Northern European countries, where it was previously unknown, by tourists returning from African or Mediterranean countries where the disease is endemic. Data on the subject are summarised and the possibility of ticks carrying the disease being transported into disease-free countries is analysed. The results of a clinicoepidemiological survey on boutonneuse fever contracted by foreigners in areas where the disease is actively endemic are reported. It would appear the few cases were involved and that these were quickly recognised, treated and cured.
Tick bites, clinical symptoms of Lyme borreliosis, and Borrelia antibody responses in Finnish army recruits training in an endemic region during summer.	Tick bites, associated clinical symptoms, and antibodies against Borrelia burgdorferi were investigated in 77 Finnish army recruits training during summer in an endemic region and 50 control recruits serving outside the habitat of ticks. During a follow-up of 6 months, 26.9% of the study recruits reported tick bites. None gave a history of erythema migrans. Five study recruits and none in the control group had a combination of two or three nonspecific symptoms compatible with Lyme borreliosis. Three of these five study recruits had been bitten by several ticks. Thirteen (16.9%) study recruits and two (4.0%) control recruits had positive antibody levels against B. burgdorferi in their first serum specimens. No significant change in immunoglobulin G antibody levels was seen between the first and second specimens. Immunoglobulin M antibody levels increased in the sera of 13 (11.9%) study recruits and 1 (3.0%) control recruit. We conclude that recruits training in tick habitats are at high risk of tick bites. All recruits starting their military training in endemic areas should be taught to recognize and remove ticks and advised to wear protective clothing.
Maternal Lyme disease and congenital malformations: a cord blood serosurvey in endemic and control areas.	This report describes a cohort study of over 5000 infants and their mothers who participated in a cord blood serosurvey designed to examine the relationship between maternal exposure to Lyme disease and adverse pregnancy outcome. Based on serology and reported clinical history, mothers of infants in an endemic hospital cohort are 5 to 20 times more likely to have been exposed to B. burgdorferi as compared with mothers of infants in a control hospital cohort. The incidence of total congenital malformations was not significantly different in the endemic cohort compared with the control cohort, but the rate of cardiac malformations was significantly higher in the endemic cohort [odds ratio (OR) 2.40; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.25, 4.59] and the frequencies of certain minor malformations (haemangiomas, polydactyly, and hydrocele), were significantly increased in the control group. Demographic variations could only account for differences in the frequency of polydactyly. Within the endemic cohort, there were no differences in the rate of major or minor malformations or mean birthweight by category of possible maternal exposure to Lyme disease or cord blood serology. The disparity between observations at the population and individual levels requires further investigation. The absence of association at the individual level in the endemic area could be because of the small number of women who were actually exposed either in terms of serology or clinical history. The reason for the findings at the population level is not known but could be because of artifact or population differences.
Changes in the acaricidal properties of organophosphorus compounds under the influence of magnetic resonance treatment]	The authors demonstrate the possibility of enhancing pesticidal properties of some organophosphorus compounds by their single treatment for 40 min by pulsed magnetic field, 100 kHz, 10-15 microT with 16 Hz sinusoidal modulation. The treatment efficacy is up to 30 days.
The current status of resistance to organophosphorus ixodicides by the blue tick, Boophilus Decoloratus (Koch) in the Republic of South Africa and Transkei.	In a four year survey 253 isolates of Boophilus decoloratus from the Republic of South Africa and Transkei were tested in the laboratory for their susceptibility to certain organophosphorus ixodicides. Fifty-seven of these isolates were susceptible to organophosphorus compounds, 88 isolates showed a range of susceptibility between that of the susceptible laboratory strain and a strain having a resistance greater than that for the Berlin type strain. A field trial confirmed degrees of resistance shown in the laboratory to the organophosphorus ixodicides benoxophos, chlorfenvinphos, dioxathion, dicrotophos, quintiofos and chlorfenvinphos/dioxathion.
Resistance to certain organophosphorus ixodicides in the bont tick, Amblyomma hebraeum Koch, in the Republic of South Africa and Swaziland.	A series of in vitro trails confirmed resistance in the three-host tick, Amblyomma hebraeum Koch, to the organophosphorus ixodicides, dioxathion, chlorfenvinphos, quintiofos, bromophos-ethyl and a dioxathion/chlorfenvinphos combination. The results of a routine survey showed that a resistance factor of greater than 100x was present in the offspring of ticks in six of 115 field isolates tested. These six isolates were confined to the lowveld areas of the province of Natal, Republic of South Africa, and Swaziland. Ticks in a further 59 isolates were less susceptible than the reference strain. Resistance was present in all three tick instars. This is the first recorded resistance to the organophosphorus group of ixodicides by multi-host ticks in Africa.
Small and medium sized mammals as predators of ticks (Ixodoidea) in South Africa.	A total of 1,640 stomach contents from 56 South African species of small and medium sized mammals were examined for ticks. Only six ticks were found in three specimens of the caracal Felis caracal. Although identification of the tick species was not possible owing to fragmentation and partial digestion, the genus Haemaphysalis was represented in four of these cases. We conclude that predation by small and medium sized mammals on ticks is uncommon in South Africa.
The typology of natural foci of tick-borne rickettsiosis]	The authors have developed a typological classification of tick-borne rickettsiosis foci by the type of the main carrier by identifying 6 major types out of which the Dermacentor steppe and partially wooded steppe foci are most extensive and epidemiologically significant. They provide a spatial and functional characterization of the foci of this infection within the currently known Rickettsia sibirica area, which is applicable to make epidemiological predictions and differential preventive measures.
Identification of Borrelia burgdorferi isolated in Korea using outer surface protein A (OspA) serotyping system.	Two characteristic strains (935T, 934U) of B. burgdorferi isolated from Ixodes persulcatus and a wild rodent (Apodemus agrarius) in Korea were selected and analyzed by an immunoblot method using the monoclonal antibodies directed to different epitopes of outer surface protein A (OspA). The reactive pattern of strain 934U with these monoclonal antibodies was identical to that of strains belonging to B. afzelii and that of strain 935T was different from other isolates. Monoclonal antibody (5TEE3) which is specific to strain 935T did not react with any other Western and Japanese isolates. So, it was suggested that there exist at least two groups of B. burgdorferi in Korea. One could be classified as B. afzelii and the other is a divergent group from three known species of B. burgdorferi sensu stricto, B. garinii and B. afzelii.
Bioactive chromenes from Rhyncholacis penicillata.	Investigation of the aerial parts of Rhyncholacis penicillata afforded the new chromenes, 7-hydroxy-6-(3-methylbutyryl)-5-oxymethyl-chromene (rhynchonin A) and 7-hydroxy-6-(2-methylbutyryl)-6-oxymethylchromene (rhynchonin B). Structures were elucidated by spectroscopic methods and independent synthesis. Rhynchonin A showed broad insecticidal, acaricidal and nematicidal potency including strong biological activity against Heliothis zea.
Helminth and arthropod parasites of indigenous goats in the northern Transvaal.	Helminth and arthropod parasites of 60 female indigenous goats of three age groups on a farm in the northern Transvaal were collected, identified and counted. Anoplocephalid tapeworms were present in the two younger groups of goats, while larvae of Taenia hydatigena were recovered from all three groups. Eight species and two genera of nematodes were found in the youngest goats, five species and three genera in the middle group and six species and two genera in the oldest goats. Strongyloides papillosus was the most numerous and most prevalent nematode in the youngest goats, while Haemonchus contortus was most numerous and most prevalent in both older groups. Adult H. contortus was most abundant during the summer months, while S. papillosus occurred in the youngest goats during the cooler months (April to September). No pattern of seasonal abundance could be established for the other nematodes. Only ixodid ticks were recovered and of the nine species present, the immature stages of Amblyomma hebraeum were most numerous and prevalent. Boophilus decoloratus was present from October to January and in August, and the adults of a Rhipicephalus sp. (near R. pravus) from January to March and during May. Rhipicephalus simus was present from October to January.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XXXII. Ixodid ticks on scrub hares in the Transvaal.	A total of 264 scrub hares (Lepus saxatilis) were examined for ixodid ticks at various localities in the Kruger National Park, eastern Transvaal Lowveld. Thirteen tick species were recovered from these hares. The seasonal abundances of the immature stages of Amblyomma hebraeum, Amblyomma marmoreum, Hyalomma truncatum, Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, Rhipicephalus simus and Rhipicephalus zambeziensis and all stages of a Rhipicephalus sp. (near R. pravus) were determined. Three scrub hares, examined in the north-western Transvaal Bushveld, were infested with five ixodid tick species. Ten hares examined in the eastern Transvaal Highveld harboured three species. A total of 15 ixodid tick species were recovered from the scrub hares examined in the three regions of the Transvaal. No haematozoa were found in blood smears made from the hares examined in the southern region of the Kruger National Park.
Ticks (Acarina: Ixodidae) of reptiles from central, Lusaka and southern provinces of Zambia.	During the period 1988-1991, reptiles (23 snakes, 36 tortoises, 25 chameleons and 2 monitor lizards) from Central, Lusaka and Southern Provinces of Zambia were caught and checked for ticks. Only 2 snakes, respectively one Python sebae (Gmelin, 1789) and one Bitis arietans (Merrem, 1820), 8 tortoises, respectively seven Geochelone pardalis (Bell, 1828) and one Kinixys belliana (Gray, 1831) were found infested with a small number of ticks: nymphs and adults of Aponomma latum (Koch, 1844) and Amblyomma marmoreum Koch, 1844. Ticks were not observed on chameleons Chamaeleo dilepis (Leach, 1819) and monitor lizards Varanus niloticus (Linneo, 1758). The author makes some observations about the role and the effects of ticks on reptiles and discusses the present findings, comparing the data provided by other authors.
Wildlife as hosts for ticks (Acari) in Antigua, West Indies.	A survey was conducted to determine the status of wild mammals and birds as hosts for Amblyomma variegatum (F.) and other tick species in Antigua. Surveys of wild mammals and birds were conducted periodically from September 1988 through May 1991. Wild mammals surveyed included the small Indian mongoose (Herpestes auropunctatus Hodgson), Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus Berkenhout), and house mouse (Mus musculus L.), but only mongooses were surveyed intensively. Larvae and nymphs of A. variegatum, larvae of Boophilus microplus (Canestrini), and larvae of Ornithodoros puertoricensis (Fox) were recovered. The mean prevalences of infestation of mongooses by A. variegatum larvae and nymphs were 4.7 and 1.3%, respectively; maximums were 16.1 and 5.0%, respectively. The mean prevalence of infestation of mongooses by B. microplus was 3.2%. O. puertoricensis is reported from Antigua for the first time. The mean prevalence of infestation of mongooses by O. puertoricensis larvae was 41.2%, but seasonal prevalences ranged from 27.8 to 55.0%. Of 610 birds representing 16 species, three Carib grackles (Quiscalus lugubris Swainson) were each infested with one larva of A. variegatum.
Seasonal and annual abundance of Amblyomma americanum (Acari: Ixodidae) in central Georgia.	Seasonal and annual changes in the abundance of Amblyomma americanum (L.) larvae, nymphs, and adults were monitored over a 5-yr period in the Piedmont physiographic region of Georgia. Tick abundance was monitored with cloth drags (all life stages) and CO2-baited cloth panels (nymphs and adults) monthly during March through September from 1987 through 1991. Larvae appeared in substantial numbers in July and were most numerous in August and September. Small numbers of unfed larvae apparently overwintered each year based on their presence during March, April, or May. Nymphs were most numerous from April through June and declined to much lower numbers by August and September. Adults were most numerous from March through May and virtually disappeared by August. These seasonal patterns were similar to those reported for A. americanum at other southeastern locations. Each life stage exhibited similar trends of annual abundance with an increase in 1988 followed by a relatively steady decline to levels equivalent to or below initial 1987 values by 1991. Major environmental variables that potentially could have influenced annual abundance were identified from Haile & Mount's (1987) computerized model of A. americanum population dynamics. Habitat type, host density, and day length were constants and rationally could be excluded as causes of annual variations in abundance; weather and host-finding rate were presumed to have been primarily responsible for these annual differences.
Influence of annual and biennial prescribed burning during March on the abundance of Amblyomma americanum (Acari: Ixodidae) in central Georgia.	A 5-yr study to evaluate the influence of annual and biennial prescribed burning in March on the abundance of Amblyomma americanum (L.) was conducted on Oconee Wildlife Management Area in the Piedmont physiographic region of Georgia. Tick abundance on plots embedded in larger burned and unburned areas were monitored with cloth drags and CO2-baited cloth panels monthly during March through September from 1987 through 1991. Annual and biennial prescribed burning from 1988 to 1991 significantly reduced the abundance of larvae, nymphs, and adults but did not alter their seasonal trends of abundance. Annual burning more consistently suppressed all life stages than biennial burning. The magnitude of tick suppression tended to increase with successive burns, especially with the annual burning regime. The order of vulnerability to direct incineration appeared to be overwintered larvae > adults > nymphs; however, only overwintered larvae were highly vulnerable. Consistent reductions in larvae during June-September following burning were associated with reduced litter depths and presumably lowered habitat suitability. During years of fire omission, the abundance of larvae on biennially burned plots increased to levels equal to or exceeding those on unburned plots. Based on cloth drag sampling, mean percentage control during 1988-1991 for larvae, nymphs, and adults, respectively, was 80, 75, and 70% on annually burned plots and 48, 73, and 65% on biennially burned plots. Frequent late-winter prescribed burning, which is commonly used to achieve wildlife habitat management objectives, could be an effective and economical component of an integrated A. americanum control program in habitats ecologically suited to regimes of frequent fire.
Preliminary evaluation of the INDX DIP-S-TICKS with positive rickettsial samples in Malaysia.	Forty-four serum samples of various reactivities to rickettsial antigens demonstrated by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique were tested with INDX Dip-S-Ticks (INDX Integrated Diagnostics Inc., USA) Kit for the detection of tick borne diseases. The kit utilised Rickettsia rickettsii the causative agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) as antigens. The samples positive for endemic typhus were also tested against R. typhi, the agent for endemic typhus by the same method. The aim of this study was to determine the extent of cross-reactivity of R. rickettsii with rickettsial infections in Malaysia. Nine out of 12 tick typhus, 4 out of 10 scrub typhus and 4 out of 12 endemic typhus samples cross reacted with R. rickettsii. Ten out of 12 endemic samples were positive with R. typhi by the same method. From the study, we concluded that the INDX Dip-S-Ticks Kit can be used as a rapid screening test to detect endemic and tick-borne rickettsial infections in Malaysia but a second serological test is strongly recommended on all weakly reactive cases.
Antibody prevalence and clinical manifestations of Lyme borreliosis and tick-borne encephalitis in Swedish orienteers.	Antibody prevalence and clinical manifestations of Lyme borreliosis (LB) and tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) were studied in 362 orienteers from the county of Stockholm during a large relay race in October 1990. From all participating orienteers, a blood sample was collected and a questionnaire completed. Antibody activity to Borrelia burgdorferi was measured using a sonicated whole spirochete antigen in an ELISA, and to TBE virus (TBEV) by ELISA and haemagglutination inhibition (HI) test. A past history of LB was reported by 6% of the orienteers and antibodies to B. burgdorferi were found in 9%. Antibody reactivity to B. burgdorferi was found in 1-2% of the sera from 3 different control groups comprising 502 persons living in non-endemic areas. The corresponding value was 9% in sera from a fourth control group consisting of 150 persons living in the city of Stockholm. A past history of TBE was reported by 1 orienteer (0.3%) and detectable antibodies to TBEV in non-immunized individuals were found in 1%. No antibody activity to TBEV could be detected in sera from the control individuals living in the 3 non-endemic areas, but in 5% of the controls from Stockholm. In this study, there was no indication that frequent or severe manifestations of LB or TBE are common among orienteers in Sweden.
The prevalence of small terrestrial mammals infected with tick-borne encephalitis virus and leptospirae in the foothills of the southern Bavarian forest, Germany.	In the district of Grafenau/Freyung (Bavaria, Germany), 266 specimens of small terrestrial mammals of 8 species were captured using live traps. From these mammals, Apodemus flavicollis (42.1%) and Clethrionomys glareolus (39.5%) were prevalent. All animals were tested for neutralizing antibodies to tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) virus and agglutinating antibodies to leptospirae. Seropositivity against TBE virus was 14.0% and against leptospirae 7.9%, respectively. Seropositivity to leptospirae appeared to be primarily to Leptospira grippotyphosa, less to Australis and occasionally to Javanica serovars. Only one A. flavicollis specimen was positive to both pathogens tested. The parasitocoenosis of trapped micromammals with ectoparasites consisted of 69.5% from ticks (mainly Ixodes ricinus, less from I. trianguliceps), 16.1% of mites (primarily Laelaps agilis) and 14.3% of fleas (mostly Ctenophthalmus agyrtes).
Susceptibility of three tick Hyalomma spp. from North Sinai Governorate to certain pesticide groups.	Three species of Hyalomma tick, (H. anatolicum, H. dromedarii and H. impeltatum) were collected from camels in North Sinai. The susceptibility of adult females and males of each species to four different groups of insecticides (BHC, Fenitrothion, Permethrin and Baygon) were determined. The results of Lc50 values showed that BHC was the most effective compound against adult males and females of H. impeltatum, whereas the superior efficiency against H. anatolicum and H. dromedarii occurred by Baygon and Permethrin respectively on both males and females. Also the results indicated that the adult males of all tested species of ticks were more susceptible to all the tested insecticides than the adult females.
On the use of the scrotum for feeding larval ixodid ticks on hosts.	The efficacy of feeding larval stages of Amblyomma variegatum, Hyalomma rufipes and Boophilus decoloratus on the ears and scrotum of sheep is compared. The effect of age of larvae on the number that engorged on the animal was also investigated. A significantly greater number of larvae fed on scrotum than on ears. The greatest number of larvae engorged when they were fed on the scrotum or ear within 1-4 days of hatching. The older the larvae, the less the number that fed. The economic advantages of adopting the scrotal method for rearing larval tick stages as well as the implication under natural conditions of younger larvae feeding in large numbers are discussed.
Tick-borne relapsing fever: an interstate outbreak originating at Grand Canyon National Park.	During the 1973 summer season, 27 employees and 35 overnight guests at the North Rim, Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona, acquired febrile illnesses compatibel with relapsing fever. Sixteen cases were confirmed by finding Borrelia spirochetes in peripheral blood smears or inoculated Swiss mice. Retrospective surveys of 278 employees and 7247 guests at the park revealed that acquisition of illness was significantly associated with the persons sleeping in rustic log cabins and acquiring bites of "unknown" insects. From rodent nesting materials found in the walls and attics of cabins where cases had occurred, infective Ornithodoros hermsi ticks were recovered. Exceptional activity of ticks in human populations appeared to have resulted from a decreased population of the ticks' usual rodent hosts. Vector control activities consisted of spraying the cabins with residual insecticide, removing nesting materials, and "rodent proofing." This outbreak, the largest yet identified in North America, extends the known range of a principal vector and establishes the North Rim as an endemic source of tick-borne relapsing fever.
Tick resistance to pesticides in the R.S.A. - some observations (author's transl)]	Observations on the screening for resistance against acaricides in both larvae and adults of tick species commonly found on cattly in South Africa, have shown that widespread resistance of varying degrees occurs in strains of all these species against compounds of the arsenical, organochlorine and organophosphorous groups. With few exceptions the degree of resistance is of a low order and probably indicative of selection at the low acaricide concentrations generally used by stockowners. The distribution of less susceptible and resistant strains is patchy, and fully susceptible strains are found in the same areas.
Resistance to toxaphene by the Bont tick, Amblyomma hebraeum (Koch).	A series of in vitro and in vivo trials confirmed resistance by the three-host Bont tick, Amblyomma hebraeum (Koch), to Toxaphene in the Cape, Natal and Transvaal Provinces of the Republic of South Africa, and in Swaziland and Transkei. Resistance was present in 80 of 97 field strains examined. Lindane and DDT resistance was present in the one field strain tested. The results of comparative in vivo hand spraying and plunge dipping trials confirmed those of the larval in vitro tests, thus validating the usefulness of this latter technique for identifying changes of susceptibility in field tick strains to ixodicides. Selection of Toxaphene resistance in A. hebraeum occurred within a period of four years when a 14-day interval of treatment was used continuously. The presence of all three tick instars in all stages of engorgement at the time of each treatment under this regimen is thought to have enhanced this selection.
Use of participatory rural appraisal (PRA) tools for investigating tick ecology and tick-borne disease in Somaliland.	This paper describes the use of the participatory rural appraisal tools matrix scoring and seasonal calendars to collect data on tick ecology and tick-associated health problems of livestock in Sanaag region of Somaliland. The potential application of these techniques is discussed.
Selective inhibition of factor Xa during thrombolytic therapy markedly improves coronary artery patency in a canine model of coronary thrombosis.	The success of current thrombolytic strategies is undermined by ongoing thrombin activity, but it is uncertain whether prevention of thrombin generation or direct thrombin antagonism is effective in achieving more optimal thrombolysis. To address this question, 24 dogs with electrically induced coronary thrombus undergoing thrombolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator (1 mg/kg) over 20 min, were given one of the following adjunctive regimens in a random fashion. Twelve dogs received saline, and served as the control group; a direct thrombin antagonist, hirudin, was given at a dose of 20 micrograms/kg/min for 90 min to six dogs, and a selective factor Xa inhibitor, tick anticoagulant peptide (TAP), was administered to six dogs at a dose of 30 micrograms/kg/min for 90 min. The time to reperfusion was similar in the saline and hirudin groups (34 +/- 4 vs 37 +/- 7 min; P = NS) but shorter in the TAP group (21 +/- 4 min; P < 0.05). Coronary blood flow was restored to 100% of its baseline value for 7 +/- 2 min in control dogs, and for 20 +/- 6 min in the hirudin group (P < 0.05). In the TAP group, coronary blood flow was restored to 100% of its baseline value for more than 120 min in all dogs (P < 0.01 vs others treatments). Reocclusion occurred in 89% and 50% of dogs receiving saline and hirudin, respectively (P = NS), but in none of the TAP-treated dogs (P < 0.01). Plasma fibrinopeptide A (FpA) and thrombin-antithrombin III complex (TAT) levels were determined in all dogs as indicators of thrombin activation. In the saline group, FpA and TAT during reperfusion were 19 +/- 2 ng/ml and 104 +/- 24 ng/ml respectively (P < 0.02 vs baseline) indicating high thrombin activity. In contrast, during reperfusion in hirudin-treated dogs FpA and TAT remained similar to baseline (10 +/- 3 ng/ml and 53 +/- 4 ng/ml respectively; both P < 0.05 vs saline). Reperfusion in TAP-treated dogs did not alter FpA and TAT in plasma, which remained similar to baseline (9 +/- 1 ng/ml and 39 +/- 5 ng/ml respectively; both P < 0.05 vs saline). Scanning electron microscopy of coronary arteries showed residual thrombi with intense platelet and fibrin deposition adherent to the deendothelialized surface of the vessels following saline and hirudin therapy. In contrast, TAP-treated arteries were characterized by the absence of fibrin and minimal platelet deposition. In conclusion, these hemodynamic, biochemical and morphologic data suggest that adjunctive treatment with a higher tier blockade of the coagulation cascade is superior to direct thrombin inhibition in maintaining coronary artery patency following thrombolysis in the experimental canine electrolytic model. These findings highlight the potential adverse effects of unchecked thrombin generation in the setting of thrombolytic therapy.
Tick-borne diseases in Texas: a 10-year retrospective examination of cases.	The occurrence of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, human monocytotropic ehrlichiosis, tularemia, tick-borne relapsing fever, and a southern erythema migrans-like illness (Lyme/Lyme-like disease) is determined by the geographic distribution and seasonal activity of the particular vector tick(s). The flulike signs and symptoms early in the course of spotted fever rickettsiosis, ehrlichiosis, tularemia, and relapsing fever are nonspecific and do not readily suggest a particular diagnosis. Laboratory diagnosis, particularly during the acute stage of illness, often is elusive. Empiric treatment with doxycycline can be lifesaving for Rocky Mountain spotted fever and ehrlichiosis. This article provides insight into the significance of each of these tick-transmitted diseases in Texas.
Seroepidemiologic study on tick-borne encephalitis among forestry workers and farmers from the Lublin region (eastern Poland).	The paper presents the results of seroepidemiologic studies concerning tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) in 1,583 persons (1,261 forestry workers and 233 farmers) from the Lublin region (eastern Poland) occupationally exposed to ticks and in 130 healthy blood donors (a control group). The mean percentage of seropositive reactions in forestry workers amounted to 19.8% and in farmers 32.0%. Based on 5-year research (1994-1998) conducted in 5 districts of the Lublin region, the existence of endemic foci of TBE was detected in the district of Bia a Podlaska, on the areas of Radzyń Podlaski and Parczew, where the percentage of seropositive reactions in forestry workers exceeded 50%. Statistical analysis showed that the frequency of seropositive reactions in forestry workers and farmers was significantly greater compared to control group (p < 0.001 and p < 0.05, respectively). It indicates that these groups are occupationally exposed to TBE virus. In the years 1994-98, a total of nine clinical cases of TBE (acute neuroinfection) in forestry workers and fourteen clinical cases in farmers were confirmed serologically. The effectiveness of specific immunization against TBE was proved on the basis of 100% seroconversion in 56 earlier seronegative forestry workers. The obtained results proved that forestry workers and farmers in Poland are under increased risk of infection with TBE virus.
