Ultrastructural changes of the midgut epithelial cells in feeding and moulting nymphs of the tick Haemaphysalis longicornis.	The midgut epithelial cells in nymphs fed on laboratory rabbits were examined during feeding and after detachment. The midgut epithelium at the unfed stage consisted of digestive cells of lower activity, containing such nutritive substances as protein, lipid and glycogen. As feeding proceeded, the cells became active in intracellular digestion. At the middle of the feeding stage, the spent digestive cells derived from the active digestive cells began to be replaced by the new digestive cells of lower activity. After detachment, the pinocytotic activity of the above cells increased greatly, and the digestive activity increased to some extent. As a result, many large endosomes were formed by fusion of numerous pinosomes. Thereafter, endosomes decreased in size as digestion proceeded and there was an increase of haematin granules. On day 7 after detachment, the new digestive cells of lower activity, belonging to the 'nutritional reserve' type, appeared adjacent to the spent digestive cells which had almost exhausted all endosomes, and these new cells had completely replaced the spent cells by day 3 after moulting.
Fine structure of larval malpighian tubules and rectal sac in the tick Ornithodoros (Pavlovskyella) erraticus (Ixodoidea: Argasidae).	The fine structure of the Malpighian tubules (Mts) and rectal sac (rs) is described in the larval tick Ornithodoros (Pavlovskyella) erraticus before and after feeding up to molting. Mts consist of structurally different pyramidal and cuboidal cells along the entire length of the tubule. In unfed ticks, the two types of cell are characterized by apical microvilli and a few basal membrane infoldings. The abundant pyramidal cells contain glycogen particles, lipid droplets, lysosomelike structures, and rickettsialike microorganisms. After feeding but before molting, pyramidal cells loose glycogen particles and become very dense and dramatically reduced in size. These cells are possibly involved in the formation of guanine crystalloids as an excretory product. In contrast, cuboidal cells, filled with glycogen particles, free ribosomes, and mitochondria in unfed larvae, grow steadily after feeding; their cytoplasm becomes rich in lipid droplets in addition to showing an increase in glycogen particles. Lipid and glycogen could be the source of energy required for water and ion reabsorption in which cuboidal cells are probably involved. The paired-lobe rs consists of one type of cuboidal cells with basal membrane infoldings and a brush-border microvilli covered by a fuzzy coat of glycocalyx. These cells grow rapidly after feeding; they have functional features indicating extensive, selective reabsorption of essential components from excretory products.
Observations on the subgenus Argas (Ixodoidea: Argasidae: Argas). 18. Haller's organ roof and anterior pit setae.	Adults of 18 of the 22 species constituting the subgenus Argas, which parasitize birds nesting and resting in rocky habitats in each faunal region of the world (15 species) or in trees (e species) (2 Neotropical, 1 Nearctic), were studies by SEM. In each except three Neotropical species, the nine setae of the anterior pit of tarsus I are arranged in an anterior group (1 serrate, 1 setiform, 1 conical) and a posterior group (2 fine, e porose, 2 grooved), or the two groups are more or less confluent. Abnormally, additional setae may occur on one or both tarsi of a single specimen. In one Neotropical species, only the three anterior group setae are present. In three Neotropical species, only these three setae and a fourth seta are present (whether 6 or 5 additional setae are concealed within the tarsal structure should be investigated). The Haller's organ capsule is entirely open (unroofed) (3 species), roofed posteriorly and open anteriorly (7 species), or mostly roofed by a plate which is pierced by one large aperture and by more or less numerous, small, or medium-sized perforations (8 species plus one other not studied by use). This study suggests that the structure of Haller's organ has evolved in different lines in response to a multiplicity of biologic al factors related to the behavior and habitat of individual species.
The subgenus Persicargas (Ixodoidea: Argasidae: Argas). 38. Haller's organ roof and anterior pit setae in Persicargas and Microargas.	Adults of 13 of the 17 species constituting the subgenus Persicargas (parasitizing birds nesting in trees) and the single species of the subgenus Microargas (parasitizing the Galapagos giant tortoise) were studied by scanning electron microscopy. The setae of the anterior pit of tarsus I number nine(1 serrate, 1 setiform, 1 conical, 2 fine, 2 porose, 2 grooved) in Persicargas. The single, serrate seta arises from an anterior section of the pit, the other eight setae arise from a posterior section. Abnormally, fewer or more setae occur on one or both tarsi of a single specimen. The setal arrangement is similar in Microargas, but the total number is eight (setiform seta absent). The capsule roof of Haller's organ in Persicargas is typically flat and platelike with a circular central aperture and few to moderately numerous small perforations. Thus, this roof is more solid than in other subgenera of Argas, except in Microargas and subgenera associated with cave-dwelling bats (Carios and Chiropterargas). The roof structure is quite variable in samples of A. (P). radiatus. The roofs of two Persicargas species differ from the typical pattern, the A. (P.) minatus roof is more extensively perforated and in some specimens of A. (P.) streptopedia the roof is netlike. The Microargas roof, on a sloping surface bounded by a transverse anterior groove, is more solid than those of Argas and has a circular aperture surrounded by small perforations. The biological implications of these structural properties should be investigated.
The ultrastructural characteristics of the histopathological changes at the site of attachment to the host body of larvae of the ixodid tick Ixodes ricinus]	The attachment of ixodid tick Ixodes ricinus larvae to white mice and histopathology of host tissue in the attachment site were investigated by means of electronic microscopy. It was demonstrated the presence of cement substance around the mouthparts of tick during the first and the second days of feeding period and the absence of it at the last day of this period. The cement substance consists only of the cement cone (the external cement), situated on the surface of host epidermis. The tick mouthparts in the host dermis were surrounded by zone of modified collagene fibers. Examination of feeding site showed the intensive neutrophil migration and the formation of feeding cavity in 2 days after attachment of tick. At the same time the erythrocytes and active fibroblasts were found in the feeding cavity.
First description of the male and redescription of the immature stages of Amblyomma rotundatum (Acari: Ixodidae), a recently discovered tick in the U.S.A.	The male of Amblyomma rotundatum is described for the first time, and the nymph and larva are redescribed. This tick is a parthenogenetically reproducing species parasitic on amphibians and reptiles in the warmer areas of the New World. Attempts to mate male and female A. rotundatum under laboratory conditions were unsuccessful.
