House dust mite avoidance measures for perennial allergic rhinitis.	In developed countries, it is estimated that 15% of the general population suffer from one or more allergic disorders, of which allergic rhinitis is the most common. Perennial rhinitis is most often due to allergy to the house dust mite. In such patients, house dust mite avoidance is logical, but there is considerable uncertainty regarding the efficacy and effectiveness of interventions designed to reduce dust mite exposure.
Effect of permethrin impregnated plastic strips on Dermanyssus gallinae in loose-housing systems for laying hens.	The effect of permethrin impregnated plastic strips (Die No Mite Strips) was evaluated on Dermanyssus gallinae populations in aviary systems for layers in Sweden. Two application strategies of the strips were tested: (A) attached in the housing system, allowing the birds to rub against the strips and thereby get the acaricide released onto their plumage, and (B) attached out of reach of the hens, at two different sites (perches and egg-belt lids) of the inner surfaces of the system, where the mites sheltered during the day. On two farms with 2030 (A) and 3384 (B) hens, and existing mite populations, strips were mounted for 20 and 10 weeks, respectively, and mite numbers were monitored by traps. With application A an overall mite reduction of 53% was observed, while with B the mean mite numbers decreased by 39% at the perches and 92% at the egg-belt lid. The strips were originally designed for caged hens afflicted by ectoparasites that stay on the host for most of their life cycle. However, since D. gallinae spends most of its time off the host, it was not possible to control the parasite with application A. Resistance tests performed on mites from both treated and control compartments where application A was used showed no indication of resistance to permethrin, while 95% of the mites survived a 48 h exposure to the compound where application B was performed. Thus, permethrin resistant mites appeared to be the main reason for the failure to control D. gallinae with application B.
The impact of tick control on the productivity of indigenous cattle under ranch conditions in Uganda.	The impact of tick control on the productivity of indigenous cattle was investigated in three herds of East African shorthorn Zebu and Zebu x Ankole (Nganda) breeds, maintained under three tick management systems practised under ranch conditions: twice-a-week dipping, once-a-month dipping, and no tick control. The milk production and the growth rates of pre-weaned and post-weaned calves were monitored once a month over a period of 34 months. Milk offtake was 23% higher during the heavy rainy seasons than in the long dry seasons. Twice-a-week dipping increased the milk offtake by 21% in the second year of study and prolonged the duration of lactation in cows. Similarly, twice-a-week dipping increased the pre-weaning growth rate by 39% in the second year of study, but had no significant effect on the post-weaning growth rate. Generally, the growth rate of calves were greatest during the heavy rainy seasons and least during the long dry seasons. These results provide a basis for assessing the losses under different tick management systems in the various production systems.
Efficacy of various concentrations of coumaphos to control adult, nymphal, and larval stages of an organophosphate-resistant strain of Boophilus microplus on infested cattle.	To evaluate the efficacy of coumaphos, an organophosphate (OP) acaricide, at concentrations up to 2 times higher than the highest concentration required by the US Eradication Program against all stages of an OP-resistant strain of Boophilus microplus in experimentally infested cattle.
Occurrence of the Gulf Coast tick (Acari: Ixodidae) on wild and domestic mammals in north-central Oklahoma.	Parasitic life stages of Amblyomma maculatum Koch were collected from domestic cattle and several species of wild mammals during a 3.5-yr study (May 1998-October 2001) in north-central Oklahoma. Adult ticks were the predominant life stage collected from cattle, white-tailed deer, coyotes, and raccoons, whereas only immature ticks were collected from cotton rats and white-footed mice. The prevalence of adult A. maculatum on white-tailed deer (n = 15) examined in June, July, and August 1998 was 80, 100, 100%, respectively. The prevalence of adult A. maculatum on cattle (n = 84) ranged from 52% in February 1999 to 100% in May 1999. The prevalence of adult A. maculatum on coyotes (n = 16) was 100% in April 1998 and 43% on coyotes (n = 7) examined in January 2001. The prevalence of adult A. maculatum on raccoons (n = 23) examined during May, June, and July 1999 was 13%. No A. maculatum of any life stage were recovered from opossums (n = 7). Nine hundred forty-five rodents were trapped over 294 trap-nights; prevalence of A. maculatum larvae and nymphs on cotton rats (n = 395) was 34 and 15%, respectively, whereas on white-footed mice (n = 517), prevalence was 1.5 and 1.4%, respectively. No A. maculatum were recovered from pack rats (n = 33). There were significant differences (P = 0.0001) in larval infestation prevalence between cotton rats and white-footed mice in the spring, summer, and fall and for nymphs in the spring and summer. Results of A. maculatum parasitism and seasonal occurrence on hosts in this study are compared with previous research conducted in Oklahoma and with collection records of A. maculatum in the Entomology Museum at Oklahoma State University.
Endemic stability for Theileria parva infections in Ankole calves of the Ankole ranching scheme, Uganda.	A population-based study was carried out on the Ankole ranching scheme in south-west Uganda with the aim of determining the endemic status of Theileria parva infections. For this purpose, the age-related sero-prevalence of T. parva and the specific calf mortality associated with the parasite were assessed. Blood samples were collected from 931 Ankole calves of up to 12 months of age from 81 randomly selected herds. The relationship between rainfall pattern and whole-body Rhipicephalus appendiculatus counts was determined. The influence of tick control practices on East Coast fever-related calf mortality, and sero-positivity were also determined. A significant (r2 = 0.76, P = 0.000) association between R. appendiculatus counts and rainfall was observed. There was no significant (P > 0.05) association between theileriosis-related calf mortality, sero-positivity and the different tick control practices. Antibody prevalence based on the PIM ELISA was above 70% among calves of 6 months of age in 96% in all the herds. Theileria parva-related calf mortality determined by repeated herd visits and farm records ranged between 0 % and 5.4 %. It was concluded that endemic stability for theileriosis, caused by T. parva, existed in the study area, and that the risk of the occurrence of economically important outbreaks of East Coast fever in indigenous cattle was regarded as minimal under the prevailing conditions.
Eprinomectin pour-on for control of Boophilus microplus (Canestrini) ticks (Acari: Ixodidae) on cattle.	The efficacy of a commercial pour-on formulation of eprinomectin, a macrocyclic lactone, against experimental infestations of Boophilus microplus (Canestrini) ticks was evaluated in two trials involving 27 Bos taurus calves. The first trial was designed to evaluate the effects of a single treatment at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg of body weight against standard size B. microplus females (4.5-8.0 mm long). A significant reduction in tick numbers (P<0.05, Wilcoxon test) was observed between treated calves as compared to untreated ones from Day 3 (44% efficacy) after treatment to the end of the trial on Day 28 (96.9%), with a peak efficacy of 97.1% on Day 21. In the second trial the effect of eprinomectin on standard size tick numbers, engorgement weight and fertility of female ticks from calves with a single treatment dose of 1 mg/kg on Day 0 and calves treated twice at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg on Days 0 and 4 was evaluated. An efficacy >93% was obtained from Day 2 to Day 28 after treatment in calves treated twice at 0.5 mg/kg, and to the end of the trial (Day 35) in calves treated once with 1 mg/kg. The 1mg/kg treatment provided >98% residual efficacy for at least 7 days. During the first part of the second trial the efficacy of eprinomectin resulted from a dramatic adverse effect on engorgement weight and fertility of female ticks, with 100% control on Day 5 (dosage of 1 mg/kg) and on Days 6 and 7 (two doses of 0.5 mg/kg). Following Day 7, most of the effect was due to reduction in the number of standard size female ticks.
Tick control on eland (Taurotragus oryx) and buffalo (Syncerus caffer) with flumethrin 1% pour-on through a Duncan applicator.	Eland (Taurotragus oryx) and buffalo (Syncerus caffer) in the Game Ranching Research Station at the Mushandike Sanctuary in Zimbabwe were treated with 1% flumethrin pour-on to control unacceptably high tick numbers. The pour-on was at first applied with a drenching gun and later by means of a Duncan Applicator. This device allows contact with a saturated treatment column while the animals consume a specially formulated attractant lick from the feed bin. Tick counts done over 3 summer seasons demonstrated the efficacy both of the pour-on acaricide and the method of application.
A study of the acaricidal properties of an essential oil extracted from the leaves of Ageratum houstonianum.	Study on acaricide property of foam soap containing essential oil of Ageratum houstonianum leaves was tested on Rhipicephalus lunulatus. Four doses of the oil (0.00, 0.02, 0.025 and 0.03 microl/g) with four replications for each dose were used in vitro. Each replication consisted of 10 ticks in a Petri dish with filter paper impregnated uniformly with the foam soap on the bottom. The same four doses in three replications were used in vivo. Each replication was made up of 10 naturally ticks infested goats. Results of this study indicate that foam soap containing essential oil of A. houstonianum leaves is toxic to R. lunulatus. The in vitro mortality rate was observed to vary from 0 to 50% on day 8 after treatment with the controls as compared to 95% with the lowest dose (0.02 microl/g) on day 8 and 100% with the highest dose (0.03 microl/g) on day 3. Meanwhile, the in vivo mortality rate was observed to be 23.4% with the control on day 8 after treatment whereas the highest dose killed 95.1% of the ticks by this day. The LD50 of the foam soap containing essential oil of this plant was 0.0259 and 0.0173 microl/g on day 2 after treatment, in the laboratory and on the farm, respectively. This indicates a potentially high efficiency of this medicated soap on this parasite.
House dust mite allergen avoidance and self-management in allergic patients with asthma: randomised controlled trial.	The efficacy of bed covers that are impermeable to house dust mites has been disputed.
The characteristics of rhizosphere microbes associated with plants in arsenic-contaminated soils from cattle dip sites.	Soil microorganisms and plants were studied in samples of arsenic-contaminated soil from two cattle dip sites. The aim was to delineate the parameters that will determine the feasibility of future remediation by growing arsenic-accumulating plants, including the identity and characteristics of some rhizosphere soil microbes. The soil samples contained high total, but low soluble arsenic concentrations which, together with other properties, resembled the previously reported characteristics of dip-site soils from this region of rural Australia. A glasshouse trial demonstrated that dip-site rhizosphere microbes promoted arsenic accumulation by the grass Agrostis tenuis on contaminated dip-site soil without inhibition of growth. The arsenic content of the shoots was increased by 45%. We studied the colonization of roots of dip-site plants by mycorrhizal fungi and tentatively identified six genera of other fungi present in the soil samples. Two plant species growing at the sites, Kikuyu grass (the most abundant plant) and Rainbow fern, exhibited mixed infections of their roots by endomycorrhizal fungi (tentatively identified as Acaulospora and Gigaspora) and by soil-born pathogens. Five rhizosphere bacteria were identified to genus level and we determined the effect of arsenic on their growth. The two most prevalent strains differed greatly in their growth sensitivity to arsenate; Arthrobacter sp. being the most sensitive while Ochrobactrum sp. exhibited exceptional resistance to arsenate. Of the other, less prevalent strains, two were Bacillus spp. and the last, Serratia sp., was the most resistant to arsenite. These findings show the importance of understanding plant-soil microbe interactions for developing future strategies aimed at a phytoremediation-based approach to removing arsenic from soil at dip sites.
Toxicity effect of the acaricide fipronil in semi-engorged females of the tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus (Latreille, 1806) (Acari: Ixodidae): preliminary determination of the minimum lethal concentration and LC(50).	Chemical acaricides, especially fipronil (active ingredient of Frontline®), are still the most effective method to control tick populations. In this study, the effectiveness of fipronil was assessed in semi-engorged females of the tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus. A protocol for an in vitro bioassay (AIT) was developed, and the LC(50) (lethal concentration 50%) and 95% confidence interval were determined. Ticks were immersed in Petri dishes with different concentrations of fipronil or distilled water for 2 min, dried, and placed in an incubator for 7 days. Dead R. sanguineus females treated with the 14 concentrations of fipronil were counted daily. Mortality results were compared with the Probit analysis, and the LC(50) and 95% confidence interval were calculated, g (95): LC(50) = 9.647 (4.711 to 13.470). This study was aimed at developing a more appropriate and updated protocol for an in vitro bioassay (AIT--adult immersion test), and providing information on the toxic potential of fipronil (elimination of ectoparasites with lower concentrations) and sensitivity of ticks, especially R. sanguineus, a pest of great interest, due to its occurrence in urban environments.
Efficacy of a novel topical combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene for treatment and control of induced infestations of brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) on dogs.	Four laboratory studies were conducted to demonstrate that a single topical dose of a novel spot-on combination containing fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) is efficacious against the brown dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguineus. In each study, 6-8 male and 6-8 female purpose-bred, laboratory mongrels, terrier cross or Beagles were randomly assigned to one of two study groups (treated and untreated), based on pre-treatment parasite counts. Starting on the day before treatment, each dog was infested weekly with 50 ticks. Ticks were thumb counted at various time points after treatment and weekly infestations starting as early as 6h and continued at 12, 18 and 24h depending on the study. Ticks were removed and counted at 48 h after treatment and weekly infestations. CERTIFECT provided rapid and excellent control of pre-existing and newly acquired infestations of R. sanguineus with efficacy as high as 93% within the first 12h after a single topical treatment. Excellent control (>96%) of R. sanguineus as early as 18 h, following post treatment infestations was maintained for at least 35 days.
Efficacy of a novel topical combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene for treatment and control of induced infestations with four North American tick species (Dermacentor variabilis, Ixodes scapularis, Amblyomma americanum and Amblyomma maculatum) on dogs.	Five laboratory studies were conducted to confirm that a single topical dose of the novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene, CERTIFECT™ (Merial Limited, GA, USA), is efficacious for the rapid control of pre-existing infestations and the prevention of new infestations with Ixodes scapularis, Dermacentor variabilis, Amblyomma americanum and Amblyomma maculatum for at least 28 days on dogs. In each study, 8 male and 8 female purpose-bred, laboratory beagles were randomly assigned to one of two study groups (treated and untreated). Starting on the day before treatment, each dog was infested weekly with about 30 or 50 ticks, depending on the study. Treatment with the novel combination rapidly eliminated pre-existing infestations and controlled weekly re-infestations for at least 28 days. Pre-existing infestations with all four tick species were rapidly and effectively reduced, with post-treatment therapeutic efficacies ranging from 91.7 to 99.5% within 18-48 h post treatment. Amblyomma maculatum numbers were significantly (p<0.05) reduced on treated dogs from the first tick counts as early as 6h post-treatment. All subsequent infestations with each of the 4 tick species were quickly disrupted, with prophylactic efficacies greater than 90% within 18-48 h post-infestation for at least a full month. Because the combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene quickly starts disrupting and killing ixodid ticks within hours of treatment, with similar high levels of efficacy maintained for at least 28 days in these and other studies, the authors conclude that a single topical treatment with CERTIFECT may prevent the transmission of most infectious agents carried by ixodid ticks for at least one month.
Efficacy of a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene for treatment and control of tick species infesting dogs in Europe.	Four studies were conducted to show the effectiveness of a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene in a spot-on formulation (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) for the therapeutic and preventive control of Ixodid tick species affecting dogs in Europe: Ixodes ricinus, Dermacentor reticulatus and Rhipicephalus sanguineus. In each, untreated control dogs were compared to others treated with the novel combination. All dogs were infested with 50 adult, unfed ticks prior to treatment and at 7-day intervals after treatment. Ticks on all dogs were counted at 18, 24 and 48 h after treatment (therapeutic efficacy) or infestation (preventive efficacy). Therapeutic efficacy of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene was excellent as shown by significant (p<0.05) and greater than 97% and up to 100% reductions in the 48 h tick counts and significant (p<0.05) detachment/death of ticks evident at 18-24h after treatment for all three tick species. Preventive efficacy was demonstrated by significant (p<0.05) and greater than 93% and up to 100% reductions in tick counts at 48 h after repeat infestations out to 35 days after treatment for I. ricinus and out to 42 days after treatment for D. reticulatus and R. sanguineus. The time to substantial disruption of establishment of new tick infestations after treatment was less than 18-24h and was maintained for up to 28 days after treatment of I. ricinus and D. reticulatus infestations, and 4h to at most 18 h and maintained up to 35 days after treatment of R. sanguineus. Similar preventive efficacy profiles for each of the Ixodid species tested suggest that CERTIFECT kills all Ixodid species starting 4h after contact as demonstrated for R. sanguineus.
The ability of a topical novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene to protect dogs from Borrelia burgdorferi and Anaplasma phagocytophilum infections transmitted by Ixodes scapularis.	Healthy, purpose-bred laboratory beagle dogs that had not been exposed to ticks and were seronegative for Borrelia burgdorferi and Anaplasma phagocytophilum were randomly assigned to four groups of eight dogs each. Control group 1 was not treated. Groups 2, 3 and 4 were treated with a single topical application of a new formulation of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) at 28, 21 or 14 days prior to tick infestation, respectively. Each dog was infested with 25 female and 25 male field-collected adult Ixodes scapularis ticks that had infection rates of 66% for B. burgdorferi sensu stricto and 23% for A. phagocytophilum, as determined by polymerase chain reaction. Two and five days after tick infestation, control dogs had an average of 9.5 and 13.9 attached adult female ticks, respectively, whilst the 24 treated dogs remained tick-free aside from a single tick on the 2nd day after infestation. Serial serological tests demonstrated that the ticks successfully infected 8/8 control dogs with B. burgdorferi and co-infected 6/8 with A. phagocytophilum. B. burgdorferi infection also was confirmed in most control dogs by culture (6/8) and PCR (7/8) of skin biopsies. In contrast, CERTIFECT protected all 24 treated dogs against infection by both B. burgdorferi and A. phagocytophilum, as demonstrated by their negative serological tests throughout the study and the absence of any positive skin biopsy culture or PCR in these dogs.
The prevention of transmission of Babesia canis canis by Dermacentor reticulatus ticks to dogs using a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene.	Four groups of seven dogs were treated topically with a novel combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene in a spot-on formulation (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) on 28, 21, 14 and 7 days prior to tick infestation, respectively and acaricidal efficacy and transmission blocking compared with an untreated control group (seven dogs). All dogs were infested with adult Dermacentor reticulatus ticks harbouring Babesia canis canis. Babesia canis canis was transmitted by D. reticulatus to all seven untreated control dogs, confirmed following demonstration of clinical signs, by the detection of B. canis parasites in thin blood smears and B. canis canis PCR-RLB DNA assay on blood and the development of B. canis canis antibody titres by 14-21 days after tick infestation. The majority of treated dogs remained sero-negative for 42 days after infestation. Therefore, the treatment of dogs with CERTIFECT applied up to 28 days prior to infestation with D. reticulatus harbouring B. canis canis, successfully prevented the development of clinical signs of canine babesiosis.
Efficacy of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene combination spot-on for dogs against adult dog fleas (Ctenocephalides canis, Curtis, 1826).	A novel spot-on formulation combining fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) was evaluated in adult Beagle dogs in a study to determine its adulticidal efficacy against the dog flea (Ctenocephalides canis, Curtis, 1826). Sixteen dogs were randomly allocated to treatment groups: 8 dogs served as untreated controls, and 8 dogs were treated once. Treatment consisted of applying a new combination formulation to deliver at least 6.7mg fipronil/kg body weight (bw), 8.0mg amitraz/kg bw, and 6.0mg (S)-methoprene/kg bw. The combination was designed to enhance the efficacy against ticks of the original fipronil/(S)-methoprene combination. Each dog was infested with 100 adult unfed dog fleas within 24h prior to treatment and then at weekly intervals for 8 weeks after treatment. At 24h after treatment or after each subsequent infestation, each dog was combed thoroughly to remove live fleas to be counted. A single treatment with CERTIFECT provided excellent knock-down of fleas within 24h after treatment and controlled re-infestations for up to 7 weeks (efficacy ≥96.5%, p<0.05).
Evaluation acaricidal efficacy of botanical extract from Eupatorium adenophorum against the hard tick Haemaphysalis longicornis (Acari: Ixodidae).	The aim of this study was to evaluate the acaricidal activity of a botanical extract from Eupatorium adenophorum against the hard tick Haemaphysalis longicornis. This could result in developing effective extracts of E. adenophorum as a source of natural, low-toxicity plant-based acaricidal drugs. Adult engorged females of H. longicornis were collected from naturally infected goats. The engorged females were reared in the laboratory and their offspring (larvae and nymphs) were used as test ectoparasites. The toxic effects of botanical extracts from E. adenophorum against larvae and nymphs of H. longicornis were evaluated. The results showed that the extracts with 1.5 and 1.0g/ml (w/v) concentrations were toxic for H. longicornis, comparable to a toxic effect of 2% chlorpyrifos (positive control). The median lethal time (LT50) for larval and nymphal ticks with 1.5g/ml (w/v) concentration of extract were 0.790 (LT99=1.065) and 1.018 (LT99=10.608) hours, respectively, whereas the LT50 of 1.0g/ml (w/v) concentration were 1.445 (LT99=6.047) and 1.313 (LT99=29.932) hours for larval and nymphal ticks, respectively. At a concentration of 1.5g/ml (w/v), an acaricidal effect of 100% was achieved for both larval and nymphal ticks, while a concentration of 1.0g/ml (w/v) resulted in 100% (for larvae) and 93% (for nymphs) within a 6h period. In additional, we found that the relatively low concentration (0.5g/ml) also obtained a good acaricidal effect during the short experimental period, with 2.22 and 2.651h LT50 for larval and nymphal ticks, respectively. These results indicate that E. adenophorum contains potent acaricidal ingredients against the hard tick H. longicornis. 
A controlled trial of house dust mite eradication using natamycin in homes of patients with atopic dermatitis: effect on clinical status and mite populations.	In a controlled clinical trial, patients with atopic dermatitis carried out house dust mite eradication procedures on their mattresses, using natamycin or a matched placebo spray, with or without vacuum cleaning, for 4 months. For the two groups that used vacuum cleaning, mite numbers fell significantly both by comparison of mean initial and final numbers and by calculating mean rates of reduction from regression analyses (P less than 0.01 in all cases). There were no differences between the groups in the magnitude of the decreases. For the two groups that did not use vacuum cleaning, mite populations remained virtually unchanged. These results indicate vacuum cleaning not natamycin had the major effect on mite eradication. Mean symptom scores of patients in all four groups were slightly reduced by the end of the trial, but there was a greater reduction rate (P less than 0.01) in the combined scores of the groups that did not use vacuum cleaning, demonstrating a lack of correlation between improvement in clinical score and lowered mite numbers. No patients entered remission and the maximum improvement in clinical score was only 47%. Natamycin and vacuum cleaning neither alone nor in combination proved valuable in reducing mite numbers sufficiently to provide clinical benefit.
Control of induced infestations of adult Amblyomma hebraeum with sustained release ivermectin.	The efficacy of ivermectin, administered in a sustained release formulation by intraruminal pumps at approximate daily dose rates of 20, 40 and 60 micrograms/kg, was evaluated in 16 cattle against induced infestations of 3 strains of adult Amblyomma hebraeum. Engorged female ticks were mass-measured and incubated, and reproductive data recorded. There was an increase in mortality of male and female ticks compared to that of controls with increasing daily dose of ivermectin, and a decrease in the number of ticks engorging. Ticks fed on ivermectin-treated cattle had a smaller mass when engorged and laid smaller egg masses, both absolutely and as a proportion of engorged mass. Index of reproduction was reduced 100% at 60 micrograms/kg/day, greater than 99% at 40 micrograms/kg/day and 96% at 20 micrograms/kg/day. Differences occurred between the 3 strains of A. hebraeum used in the study, especially with regard to engorged mass and reproductive variables. Practical implications of the application of sustained release ivermectin for the control of A. hebraeum, specifically with reference to heartwater (Cowdria ruminantium), are discussed.
Suppression of subadult Ixodes scapularis (Acari: Ixodidae) following removal of leaf litter.	Removal of leaf litter in wooded areas of a forested residential community significantly reduced the abundance of questing blacklegged tick, Ixodes scapularis Say, nymphs throughout their peak activity period. Removal of leaf litter, using hand rakes and leaf blowers during the early spring (March) and early summer (June) resulted in reductions in nymphal tick density ranging from 72.7 to 100%. Subsequent sampling of the I. scapularis population during the summer revealed similar rates of suppression of larvae. Although leaf removal provides levels of suppression similar to more traditional methods, including chemical acaricides, it is labor intensive and not free of possible nontarget effects. The potential role of leaf litter removal in an integrated program to control I. scapularis is discussed.
House-dust mite exposure reduction in specially designed, mechanically ventilated "healthy" homes.	Exposure to house-dust mites (Dermatophagoides spp.) was investigated in 30 asthmatic patients before and after moving to homes with mechanical ventilation systems. Median house-dust mite concentration was 110 mites per gram of mattress dust at the initial investigation and 20 mites per gram at the first follow-up after a mean of 4.7 months in the new homes. This was lower (P < 0.05) than counts in a control group of 23 asthmatic patients that had unchanged counts. At a second follow-up, after 15.0 months, mite counts in the study group were further reduced (P < 0.01) from initial values. Among 16 patients, with initial mite counts above the recommended threshold limit value (TLV) of 100 mites per gram of dust, the mite counts fell, in most cases, below this TLV. Air-exchange rates increased (P < 0.001) from a median value of 0.40 air changes per hour (ach) to 1.52 ach at the second follow-up investigation. Furthermore, a reduction (P < 0.01) was found in indoor absolute air humidity, with a median value of 5.6 g of water/kg. No such changes were found in the control group. The present study indicates that reduction of air humidity through an increased supply of fresh air may significantly diminish and, in some cases, even eliminate house-dust mites in homes.
Ticks and control methods.	Ticks are the most important ectoparasites of livestock in tropical and sub-tropical areas, and are responsible for severe economic losses both through the direct effects of blood sucking and indirectly as vectors of pathogens and toxins. Feeding by large numbers of ticks causes reduction in live weight gain and anaemia among domestic animals, while tick bites also reduce the quality of hides. However, the major losses caused by ticks are due to the ability to transmit protozoan, rickettsial and viral diseases of livestock, which are of great economic importance world-wide. The authors review general aspects of tick biology, the taxonomy, pathogenic effects and vector role of these species, and methods for the control of ticks. The distribution of ticks is continuously changing, as illustrated by the spread of the African tick Amblyomma variegatum in the Caribbean, where a large-scale eradication campaign is now under way.
Mange in domestic animals and methods of control]	The author reviews the control of various types of mange, principally in production animals (cattle, sheep, goats, camels, dromedaries, equines, pigs, rabbits and poultry). An account of the taxonomy, morphology and biology of the mange-causing parasites is followed by a study of the epidemiology and pathology of the various forms of mange. The author then examines the methods for control of these highly contagious cutaneous parasitic diseases, which cause considerable losses to animal production. The various control procedures are described: acaricides may be used as dips, showers or sprays, as a topical application to the back ('pour-on'), or administered by the parenteral route. The principal acaricides are reviewed. The author concludes by discussing the problems of resistance, the use of auxiliary therapeutic measures, and the possibilities for medical treatment and hygienic precautions.
Ectoparasites of animals: methods of ecological, biological, genetic and mechanical control]	The use of insecticides is still the basic procedure for controlling most ectoparasites, but various methods are being developed to act in addition to, or in synergy with these products, so as to enhance the efficacy and reduce the adverse effects of insecticides, by contributing to ecologically acceptable strategies. These methods are classified as ecological control (modification of the environment of the parasite), biological control (predation, parasitism, action of pathogens, etc.), genetic control (release of sterile males, hybridisation, genetic manipulations) and mechanical control (insect traps, use of repellents). The application of such methods depends on the biological and ecological characteristics of the ectoparasite, and they may act directly or indirectly, affecting mortality and/or reproduction. The authors review the principal methods applicable to major groups of ectoparasites of veterinary interest. Non-chemical methods are the subject of wide-ranging and promising research, particularly in view of recent developments in biotechnology.
Alternative methods for the control of sheep scab.	For nearly 17 years, plunge dipping has been the only method of scab control in the UK under a Government-controlled eradication campaign. Dipping is inconvenient and has been incriminated in the post-dipping illness of stockowners and contractors, and the disposal of large volumes of used dipwash is a potential hazard to the environment. Upon the deregulation of sheep scab in July 1992, stockowners are no longer obliged to dip and will seek alternative methods of scab control, ie, systemic injectables or synthetic pyrethroid pour-ons. Plunge dipping still offers the only fully effective method of controlling scab and it has a broad spectrum of activity against other ectoparasites of sheep. The present systemic pour-ons and oral drenches have little effect against scab, but double injections of systemic acaricides, ie, ivermectin, show great promise. The efficacy of systemic injectables is related to the initial mite burden and the second injection must not be omitted if complete control is to be achieved. The available synthetic pyrethroid pour-ons do not cover the entire sheep with a standard dose of acaricide, and leave the ventral surfaces unprotected and the sheep open to reinfestation.
Influence of annual and biennial prescribed burning during March on the abundance of Amblyomma americanum (Acari: Ixodidae) in central Georgia.	A 5-yr study to evaluate the influence of annual and biennial prescribed burning in March on the abundance of Amblyomma americanum (L.) was conducted on Oconee Wildlife Management Area in the Piedmont physiographic region of Georgia. Tick abundance on plots embedded in larger burned and unburned areas were monitored with cloth drags and CO2-baited cloth panels monthly during March through September from 1987 through 1991. Annual and biennial prescribed burning from 1988 to 1991 significantly reduced the abundance of larvae, nymphs, and adults but did not alter their seasonal trends of abundance. Annual burning more consistently suppressed all life stages than biennial burning. The magnitude of tick suppression tended to increase with successive burns, especially with the annual burning regime. The order of vulnerability to direct incineration appeared to be overwintered larvae > adults > nymphs; however, only overwintered larvae were highly vulnerable. Consistent reductions in larvae during June-September following burning were associated with reduced litter depths and presumably lowered habitat suitability. During years of fire omission, the abundance of larvae on biennially burned plots increased to levels equal to or exceeding those on unburned plots. Based on cloth drag sampling, mean percentage control during 1988-1991 for larvae, nymphs, and adults, respectively, was 80, 75, and 70% on annually burned plots and 48, 73, and 65% on biennially burned plots. Frequent late-winter prescribed burning, which is commonly used to achieve wildlife habitat management objectives, could be an effective and economical component of an integrated A. americanum control program in habitats ecologically suited to regimes of frequent fire.
