The crucial protective role of glutathione against tienilic acid hepatotoxicity in rats.	To investigate the hepatotoxic potential of tienilic acid in vivo, we administered a single oral dose of tienilic acid to Sprague-Dawley rats and performed general clinicopathological examinations and hepatic gene expression analysis using Affymetrix microarrays. No change in the serum transaminases was noted at up to 1000 mg/kg, although slight elevation of the serum bile acid and bilirubin, and very mild hepatotoxic changes in morphology were observed. In contrast to the marginal clinicopathological changes, marked upregulation of the genes involved in glutathione biosynthesis [glutathione synthetase and glutamate-cysteine ligase (Gcl)], oxidative stress response [heme oxygenase-1 and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1] and phase II drug metabolism (glutathione S-transferase and UDP glycosyltransferase 1A6) were noted after 3 or 6 h post-dosing. The hepatic reduced glutathione level decreased at 3-6 h, and then increased at 24 or 48 h, indicating that the upregulation of NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-regulated gene and the late increase in hepatic glutathione are protective responses against the oxidative and/or electrophilic stresses caused by tienilic acid. In a subsequent experiment, tienilic acid in combination with l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of Gcl caused marked elevation of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) with extensive centrilobular hepatocyte necrosis, whereas BSO alone showed no hepatotoxicity. The elevation of ALT by this combination was observed at the same dose levels of tienilic acid as the upregulation of the Nrf2-regulated genes by tienilic acid alone. In conclusion, these results suggest that the impairment of glutathione biosynthesis may play a critical role in the development of tienilic acid hepatotoxicity through extensive oxidative and/or electrophilic stresses.
Hepatotoxicity of DR-3438, tienilic acid, indacrinone and furosemide studied in vitro.	A new diuretic antihypertensive, DR-3438, and marketed diuretic drugs were evaluated for their toxicity in vitro. Hepatocytes were isolated from male rats by the collagenase perfusion method and incubated in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium containing various doses of DR-3438, tienilic acid, indacrinone or furosemide. Tienilic acid decreased cell viability and glutathione content in hepatocytes and increased lipid peroxidation in the cells. Indacrinone also decreased cell viability, but neither cell viability nor glutathione content was affected by furosemide or DR-3438.
Lack of cytotoxicity of ticrynafen in primary cultures of rat liver cells.	Primary cultures of hepatocytes obtained from neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were grown in arginine-deficient, ornithine-supplemented medium to inhibit fibroblastic overgrowth and to selectively isolate relatively pure cultures of parenchymal hepatocytes. This system of primary hepatocytes was used to study the potential cytotoxicity of ticrynafen by measuring cytoplasmic enzyme leakage, cell viability,, and total protein per culture dish. Hepatic cultures were treated with the drug in concentrations ranging from 10(-3)M to 10(-6)M and for durations from 2 to 8 h. The results of the study indicate that ticrynafen was minimally toxic to the hepatocytes.
