Comparative investigations of the desensitising efficacy of a new dentifrice.	In two clinical trials of 8 weeks duration, the ability of a new dentifrice, containing potassium nitrate, stannous fluoride and sodium fluoride to reduce dentine hypersensitivity was compared with either a non-desensitising fluoride dentifrice or a commercially available desensitising dentifrice (Sensodyne F) to reduce dentine hypersensitivity.
Fluoride levels in saliva after tooth-brushing using fluoride toothpastes with and without rinsing of oral cavity]	The aim of the study was to determine salivary fluoride concentrations after tooth-brushing with fluoride toothpastes with and without rinsing of oral cavity.
Short-term bactericidal activity of chlorhexidine gel, stannous fluoride gel and amine fluoride gel tested in periodontal pockets.	The short-term bactericidal effect of 2% chlorhexidine gel, 4% stannous fluoride gel or amine fluoride gel containing 1.25% fluoride on the subgingival microflora was determined in 40 periodontal pockets of 10 patients. The antimicrobial gels or placebo gel were applied in 5-9 mm deep periodontal pockets 3 times within 10 min. Before and 30 min after the applications, samples were taken of the subgingival microflora for determination of the total number of bacteria as well as the number of black pigmented Bacteroides. Reductions of the total number of bacteria were found in all test groups. The reductions found in the pockets treated with chlorhexidine gel or stannous fluoride gel were significantly greater than the reduction found in the pockets treated with a placebo gel. A significant reduction of black-pigmented Bacteroides was found after treatment with chlorhexidine gel or amine fluoride gel. It is concluded that 2% chlorhexidine gel or 4% stannous fluoride gel has a more than 99% reduction effect on the microflora of periodontal pockets within 30 min after application.
Antimicrobial efficacy of oral topical agents on microorganisms associated with radiated head and neck cancer patients: an in vitro study.	A variety of oral topical agents have been used for prevention and management of radiotherapy-induced adverse effects. The antimicrobial nature of some of the commonly used agents is unknown. The purpose of this study was to evaluate antimicrobial efficacies of various oral topical agents on common microorganisms associated with radiated head and neck cancer patients.
Effect of toothbrushing with 0.4% stannous fluoride and 0.22% sodium fluoride gel on gingivitis for 18 months.	This study determined the effect of brushing with 0.4% stannous fluoride (SnF2) or 0.22% sodium fluoride (NaF) on clinical and microbial parameters associated with gingivitis. The study included three groups of 281 subjects. Subjects in all three groups were instructed to brush twice daily with an ADA-accepted fluoride dentifrice, rinse their mouths with water, and subsequently brush with 0.4% SnF2, 0.22% NaF, or a fluoridefree placebo gel. More stain was detected in the SnF2 group than in the other two groups at all periods except at baseline. However, no differences were observed in gingivitis, bleeding, or mean proportions of microbial forms in the SnF2 or NaF groups when compared with the placebo group at 18 months. Results indicate that 0.4% SnF2, or 0.22% NaF is no more effective than a placebo in reducing gingivitis.
Prevalence of caries-associated microflora after radiotherapy in patients with cancer of the head and neck.	In this clinical study of irradiated head and neck cancer patients at M. D. Anderson Hospital, 68 adult xerostomic patients using different fluoride gels were evaluated for oral levels of Lactobacillus and Streptococcus mutans during the postradiotherapy period, which ranged from 2 months to 20 years. The fluoride groups were compared with a control group consisting of 21 cancer patients who were scheduled to undergo radiotherapy. Lactobacillus levels were significantly elevated in all postradiotherapy groups, irrespective of the type of fluoride gel used. S. mutans levels in the 0.4% SnF2 group were significantly lower than in the 1.0% NaF gel group. The low levels of S. mutans observed in the SnF2 group suggest that this agent may be exerting a downward selective pressure on the microorganism during the postradiotherapy period.
Fluoride deposited by topical applications with stannous fluoride in human enamel.	The aim of this study was to quantify the fluoridating effect of a 4% aqueous solution of SnF2 applied for 5 min. and 30 min. resp., and to measure the amounts of KOH soluble fluoride and acquired fluoride separately (APF gel data being included for comparison). Blocks of intact enamel were treated with the topical agents and subsequently exposed to 1 M KOH solutions for 24 h. No significant amount of fluoride was dissolved from control specimens by this treatment. Subsequently, the acquired F in the enamel was determined by the acid etch technique. The amount of fluoride in the KOH solutions after 5 and 30 min. SnF2 application are comparable : 6.2 and 7.4 micrograms . cm(-2) resp. A single topical treatment of SnF2 of 5 and 30 min. did not produce a significant enrichment of fluoride in the enamel. The considerable accumulation of fluoride reaction products on the outer enamel surface was only 1/3 of the amount deposited by APF gels.
Effect of a preventive approach for the treatment of nursing bottle caries.	Seventeen children with nursing bottle caries and their caretakers were studied to assess whether a preventive program would arrest the progression of the caries. Prior to the study the caretakers were asked questions regarding their child's oral hygiene practices and nursing habits, as well as the caretaker's demographic characteristics. All caretakers were given instructions on how to control the use of their child's nursing bottle and how to brush their child's teeth twice daily with 0.4 percent stannous fluoride gel. After the instruction the children and caretakers were placed on 3-month recalls. Compliance was determined through a self-evaluation questionnaire assessing preventive behaviors. In general, the caretakers were unmarried 20- to 30-year-old women subsisting on welfare with one child. The majority of the caretakers were aware of the potential dangers of the child sleeping with milk or sweet liquids in the bottle. The study was discontinued after three month because caries noticeably progressed in all but two of the children, and only two caretakers complied fully with the prevention program.
Effect of NaF-, SnF2-, and chlorhexidine-impregnated birch toothpicks on mutans streptococci and pH in approximal dental plaque.	The antimicrobial effect of birch toothpicks impregnated with 4% NaF, 8% SnF2, or 2% chlorhexidine was studied both in vitro and in vivo. A non-impregnated toothpick served as a control. In vitro, suspensions of Streptococcus mutans were exposed to the various toothpicks for 20 min and then cultured on blood agar. The results of this susceptibility test revealed the following ranking order with respect to inhibition: chlorhexidine > SnF2 > NaF and non-impregnated; with significant differences in colony-forming units (CFU) between these three groups. In vivo, 12 individuals used the 4 types of toothpick 3 times a day for 5 days in a procedure with a crossover design. Saliva and approximal plaque samples were collected at baseline and on various occasions up to 23 days after the treatment. At the same time, plaque-pH was measured at approximal sites 10 min after rinsing with 10% sucrose. The results of these in vivo experiments revealed lower proportions of mutans streptococci after using all four types of toothpick, but the reduction was significant only after 2 days for the toothpicks impregnated with SnF2 and chlorhexidine (P< 0.05). On the sampling occasions 9 and 23 days after the treatment, the mutans streptococci were more or less back to baseline levels again. In saliva no significant differences in the number of mutans streptococci were found either within or between the four treatments. No significant differences were found regarding decline in the plaque-pH between the NaF-, SnF2-, chlorhexidine-, and non-impregnated toothpicks on any of the sampling occasions.
