Culturing dermatophytes rapidly from each toe web by fingertip.	The diagnosis of tinea pedis is usually confirmed by microscopy and culture of skin scrapings. Isolating dermatophytes by fungal culture gives more reliable proof of infection and has the advantage of identifying the causative organisms. Nevertheless, culture examination is complementary to microscopy and is not routinely performed because it is time- and cost-consuming. Herein, we propose a new culturing method, the 'finger-sampling method', for collecting dermatophytes from patients' toe webs using the examiner's fingertip as a sample collection tool. Using this method, four toe webs of a foot can be examined at one time on one culture dish. Every toe web of 50 patients with untreated tinea pedis were examined, and dermatophytes were grown from 83 out of 107 (78%) KOH positive toe webs. The isolation ratio by the finger-sampling method was comparable to that by traditional slant culture of skin scrapings performed by skilled practitioners. Culture results were also positive in 19 out of 53 (36%) diseased but KOH negative toe webs and in 38 (16%) normal toe webs, suggesting the existence of unidentified infection. Additionally, we confirmed the efficacy of this method for detecting dermatophyte attachment on the healthy toe web skin of volunteers who had just been exposed to contaminated areas, i.e. Japanese public baths or a bath mat stepped on by a patient disseminating dermatophyte propagules.
Efficacy of a 1-week, twice-daily regimen of terbinafine 1% cream in the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis. Results of placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter trials.	Patients with tinea pedis often discontinue treatment before eradication of the fungus when their symptoms improve. The result is an incomplete cure/recurrence.
Interdigital erosions - tinea pedis?	Interdigital erosions are frequently due to tinea pedis. However, other infectious conditions, such as candidiasis, erythrasma or bacterial infections, can generate lesions that cannot be differentiated at the clinical level. Microbiological tests are therefore necessary. This clinical case shows a man with interdigital lesions of 10 months of evolution that are not responding to antifungal treatment.
Multiple rare opportunistic and pathogenic fungi in persistent foot skin infection.	Persistent superficial skin infection caused by multiple fungi is rarely reported. Recently, a number of fungi, both opportunistic and persistent in nature were isolated from the foot skin of a 24-year old male in Malaysia. The fungi were identified as Candida parapsilosis, Rhodotorula mucilaginosa, Phoma spp., Debaryomyces hansenii, Acremonium spp., Aureobasidium pullulans and Aspergillus spp., This is the first report on these opportunistic strains were co-isolated from a healthy individual who suffered from persistent foot skin infection which was diagnosed as athlete's foot for more than 12 years. Among the isolated fungi, C. parapsilosis has been an increasingly common cause of skin infections. R. mucilaginosa and D. hansenii were rarely reported in cases of skin infection. A. pullulans, an emerging fungal pathogen was also being isolated in this case. Interestingly, it was noted that C. parapsilosis, R. mucilaginosa, D. hansenii and A. pullulans are among the common halophiles and this suggests the association of halotolerant fungi in causing persistent superficial skin infection. This discovery will shed light on future research to explore on effective treatment for inhibition of pathogenic halophiles as well as to understand the interaction of multiple fungi in the progress of skin infection.
Dermatophytid--a misdiagnosed entity?	A mycological and immunological survey was performed in 26 patients with clinical signs of dermatophytid. Only 10 patients fulfilled the main criteria of dermatophytid reactions, i.e. positive delayed skin test to trichophytin and dermatophyte isolated by culture. Trichophyton mentagrophytes--especially the zoophilic variant--was found in 9 patients of 10. In the majority of cases, inflammatory tinea pedis caused the dermatophytid reaction which appeared as vesicles localized to the palms. Relying on clinical appearance only implies an obvious risk of erroneously including pyoderma and various eczemas, e.g. pompholyx and contact dermatitis, as dermatophytids. Mycological culture and skin test with a reliable trichophytin antigen preparation ought to be applied in order to avoid misdiagnosis.
Generalized skin reaction following tinea pedis (dermatophytids).	An 11-year-old boy presented with inflamed tinea pedis followed by a generalized id type skin eruption, with disappearance of the rash after treatment of the mycotic foot lesions. The pathogenesis of this process is not precisely known. Fungal infection was not detected from the generalized skin lesions. Various clinical forms of dermatophytid reaction are discussed.
Minipreparation of total cellular DNA is useful as an alternative molecular marker of mitochondrial DNA for the identification of Trichophyton mentagrophytes and T. rubrum.	Total cellular DNA was extracted from 18 isolates of Trichophyton mentagrophytes and six isolates of unidentified Trichophyton species taken from tinea corporis, tinea cruris and tinea pedis patients by a minipreparation method. The DNA was digested with the restriction enzymes HaeIII and MspI, followed by electrophoresis on agarose gels. The restriction enzyme profiles of the DNAs were compared with those of mitochondrial (mt) DNA extracted from reference strains of T. mentagrophytes (Arthroderma simii, A. benhamiae and A. vanbreuseghemii) and T. rubrum. All 18 T. mentagrophytes isolates showed the same DNA profiles as mtDNA from A. vanbreuseghemii. The six unidentified Trichophyton isolates exhibited DNA profiles the same as that of mtDNA from T. rubrum. Consequently, these isolates were identified as T. rubrum. In conclusion, restriction enzyme analysis of total cellular DNA prepared by the minipreparation method is considered to be useful as an alternative method of mtDNA analysis and is helpful for the identification of these dermatophyte species.
