Treatment of hyperacusis in Williams syndrome with bilateral conductive hearing loss.	Williams syndrome (WS) is a rather rare congenital disorder characterised by a series of cardiovascular, maxillo-facial and skeletal abnormalities. It sometimes displays otorhinolaryngological symptoms because of the relatively high incidence of secretory otitis media and hyperacusis, which may be present in up to 95% of patients. The present paper describes a case of WS associated with bilateral conductive hearing loss which was not related to secretory otitis media. Hyperacusis was, moreover, present in spite of the conductive deafness. Surgical or prosthetic treatment of hearing loss was delayed because of hyperacusis. Treatment of the hyperacusis by acoustic training, instead, yielded excellent, long-lasting remission of the symptoms.
Tinnitus affects 15 percent--today's environmental noise a risk factor. Early treatment can prevent chronic problems]	A substantial proportion of individuals in the general population have tinnitus and 1-3% suffer from severe tinnitus affecting sleep, concentration, and mood. For a majority of patients with tinnitus degree of hearing loss plays a significant role. Several potential causes and aggravating factors have been suggested, but there is still not a single theory available to explain why tinnitus is so bothersome for some individuals. Recent research has investigated neural correlates of tinnitus, mainly involving primary and secondary auditory cortex. Several treatments have been tested with modest results. However, for the alleviation of tinnitus-related distress there is now empirical support for the use of cognitive-behavioural treatment methods. Future efforts should focus on prevention of noise-induced hearing loss and ways to foster habituation to tinnitus.
Electrical suppression of tinnitus with high-rate pulse trains.	Application of high-rate pulse trains (e.g., 4800 pps) to the cochlea may represent an effective treatment of tinnitus.
Sulpiride as initial treatment in tinnitus retraining therapy]	With this study we try to find out the interaction of sulpiride in tinnitus pathology. This, could help us to control better the tinnitus through tinnitus retraining therapy.
Stapedius muscle myoclonus.	Myoclonus of the middle ear is a very rare condition. We present the case of a 20-year-old soldier who was exposed to intense artillery noise during a fierce battle and immediately afterward complained of an incapacitating tinnitus in both ears. Microscopic examination of the ears demonstrated rapid rhythmic movements of the tympanic membrane coinciding with the tinnitus, which was also easily heard by the examiner. There was no evidence of palatal myoclonus, and thus the diagnosis of middle ear myoclonus was made. Exploratory tympanotomy confirmed the diagnosis of stapedial muscle myoclonus. Bilateral sectioning of the stapedial tendons brought immediate relief of the tinnitus to the patient. We review the literature of middle ear myoclonus and discuss the symptoms, evaluation, and management of this rare condition.
Antioxidants in treatment of idiopathic sudden hearing loss.	Assuming that superoxide anion radicals (O(2)-) may play a role in damage to the inner ear, the authors investigated the possible benefit of vitamin E as an antioxidant in the treatment of idiopathic sudden hearing loss.
Tinnitus retraining therapy for patients with tinnitus and decreased sound tolerance.	Our experience has revealed the following: (1) TRT is applicable for all types of tinnitus, as well as for decreased sound tolerance, with significant improvement of tinnitus occurring in over 80% of the cases, and at least equal success rate for decreased sound tolerance. (2) TRT can provide cure for decreased sound tolerance. (3) TRT does not require frequent clinic visits and has no side effects; however, (4) Special training of health providers involved in this treatment is required for this treatment to be effective.
Tinnitus impairs cognitive efficiency.	Many people who complain of tinnitus say that the noises impair their mental concentration. This complaint was investigated by self-report (primarily the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire) and by means of five cognitive tasks, four presented via laptop computer and one given manually. The tasks measured performance under single- and dual-task conditions and included tests of sustained attention, reaction time, verbal fluency and immediate and delayed memory. Two groups of outpatients attending audiological clinics (tinnitus, n = 43; hearing impairment, n = 17) were compared with non-clinical volunteers (n = 32). The results replicated earlier findings that tinnitus outpatients report significantly more everyday cognitive failures than do controls. The tinnitus group responded significantly more slowly than the two control groups on the variable fore-period reaction time task under dual-task conditions. In general, comparisons between the groups on other tasks showed equivalent performance, but both clinical groups performed more poorly than non-clinical controls on verbal fluency. We conclude that cognitive inefficiency in tinnitus participants is related to the control of attentional processes, consistent with our earlier theoretical speculation about the nature of tinnitus complaint and with published findings on the effects of chronic pain on cognitive processes.
Effects of Yoku-kan-san on undifferentiated somatoform disorder with tinnitus.	Up to the present, there have been few strategies that are completely effective in treating undifferentiated somatoform disorder with tinnitus. We herein report that Yoku-kan-san (TJ-54), one of Japan's traditional herbal medicines, is an effective treatment for tinnitus in undifferentiated somatoform disorder complicated with headache and insomnia. TJ-54 has been also used as an effective treatment for insomnia and irritability in recent centuries and is considered to have some effects on the excitability of nerves. Further studies are needed to confirm the efficacies of Japanese herbal medicines.
Characterization of sleep disturbance in patients with tinnitus]	Approximately 60 % of patients with tinnitus experience disturbances of the normal sleep pattern.
Neuropathic and cerebrovascular correlates of hearing loss in Fabry disease.	Fabry disease, OMIM 301500, is a progressive multisystem storage disorder due to the deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A (GALA). Neurological and vascular manifestations of this disorder with regard to hearing loss have not been analysed quantitatively in large cohorts. We conducted a retrospective cross sectional analysis of hearing loss in 109 male and female patients with Fabry disease who were referred to and seen at the Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA on natural history and enzyme replacement study protocols. There were 85 males aged 6-58 years (mean 31 years, SD 13) and 24 females aged 22-72 years (mean 42 years, SD 12). All patients underwent a comprehensive audiological evaluation. In addition, cerebral white matter lesions, peripheral neuropathy, and kidney function were quantitatively assessed. HL(95), defined as a hearing threshold above the 95th percentile for age and gender matched normal controls, was present in 56% [95% CI (42.2-67.2)] of the males. Prevalence of HL(95) was lower in the group of patients with residual GALA enzyme activity compared with those without detectable activity (33% versus 63%) HL(95) was present in the low-, mid- and high-frequency ranges for all ages. Male patients with HL(95) had a higher microvascular cerebral white matter lesion load [1.4, interquartile range (IQR) 0-30.1 +/- versus 0, IQR 0-0], more pronounced cold perception deficit [19.4 +/- 5.5 versus 13.5 +/- 5.5 of just noticeable difference (JND) units] and lower kidney function [creatinine: 1.6 +/- 1.2 versus 0.77 +/- 0.2 mg/dl; blood urea nitrogen (BUN): 20.1 +/- 14.1 versus 10.3 +/- 3.28 mg/dl] than those without HL(95) (P < 0.001). Of the females, 38% had HL(95). There was no significant association with cold perception deficit, creatinine or BUN in the females. Word recognition and acoustic reflexes analyses suggested a predominant cochlear involvement. We conclude that hearing loss involving all frequency regions significantly contributes to morbidity in patients with Fabry disease. Our quantitative analysis suggests a correlation of neuropathic and vascular damage with hearing loss in the males. Residual GALA activity appears to have a protective effect against hearing loss.
A survey of New Zealanders with tinnitus.	A sample of 338 New Zealanders regularly experiencing tinnitus completed questionnaires posted to associations for people with tinnitus or hearing impairment. Nearly half the sample was sometimes depressed by tinnitus; those reporting depression and those reporting more severe problems as a consequence of their tinnitus saw more health-care professionals and used more coping strategies. Most respondents did not remember exactly when they first noticed their tinnitus; those that did reported a range of events that might have precipitated it. Respondents who sought medical help generally rated professionals as sympathetic, but few had been offered effective treatment. Comparison of the tinnitus sample with a sample of university students and staff indicated that though the respondents of the university sample often had some experience of tinnitus they reported sensations rather different from those of the tinnitus sample.
The prevalence of psychological disturbance in neurotology outpatients.	This study assesses the prevalence of psychological disturbance among a consecutive series of 120 neuro-otology outpatients, using a structured interview conducted by a clinical psychologist. 42% of all patients were found to be in need of, and were offered, psychological help (27% of those with hearing loss, 45% of those with tinnitus and 64% of those with dizziness). 86% of those offered psychological help accepted it. Current psychological distress was associated with the number of symptoms complained of and past psychiatric history. Patients completed the General Health Questionnaire which was found to have a sensitivity rate of 82% and a specificity rate of 87% in this setting. Physicians were also asked to rate patients' psychological state; close agreement was found between these ratings and those of a psychologist. The contribution of psychological assessment of neuro-otology patients is discussed.
Quantitative analysis of white matter on DTI images of patients with tinnitus: preliminary report.	Tinnitus is defined as an unwanted auditory perception of internal origin, usually localized, and rarely heard by others. Persisting appearances of tinnitus are most commonly combined with diseases or damage in the inner ear or neuro-auditory pathway. Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) is a new imaging method with the capability of providing non-invasive information on tissue microstructure not available in routine clinical MRI images. Since white matter regions of the brain are an ordered structure due to the myelination and directionality of axons and have a high degree of anisotropy, the ability to detect changes in anisotropy can be extremely useful in the study of diseases such as tinnitus and multiple sclerosis, which are assumed to involve the demyelination of axons. While several studies investigated tinnitus using MRI, few studies tried to analyze neurological disorders quantitatively using DTI. In this study, the cerebral volume of white matter on DTI images of patients with tinnitus was measured using the semi-automated and intuitive menu based image processing tool (Human Analyzer, ETRI, Korea). Total number of ten patients with tinnitus including three women was examined.
Association between Cogan's syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease: a case series.	Cogan's syndrome (CS) is a rare autoimmune disease with less than 250 cases reported. It mainly affects the audiovestibular system and the eyes frequently resulting in deafness. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) consists of two subtypes, Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), and represents a common form of chronic intestinal inflammation. Here, we report an association between CS and IBD in four patients.
Tinnitus severity is reduced with reduction of depressive mood--a prospective population study in Sweden.	Tinnitus, the perception of sound without external source, is a highly prevalent public health problem with about 8% of the population having frequently occurring tinnitus, and about 1-2% experiencing significant distress from it. Population studies, as well as studies on self-selected samples, have reported poor psychological well-being in individuals with tinnitus. However, no study has examined the long-term co-variation between mood and tinnitus prevalence or tinnitus severity. In this study, the relationship between depression and tinnitus prevalence and severity over a 2-year period was examined in a representative sample of the general Swedish working population. Results show that a decrease in depression is associated with a decrease in tinnitus prevalence, and even more markedly with tinnitus severity. Hearing loss was a more potent predictor than depression for tinnitus prevalence, but was a weaker predictor than depression for tinnitus severity. In addition, there were sex differences for tinnitus prevalence, but not for tinnitus severity. This study shows a direct and long-term association between tinnitus severity and depression.
Endolymphatic hydrops in patients with tinnitus as the major symptom.	Tinnitus is one of the symptoms of Meniere's disease. The relationship between a clinical presentation of subjective tinnitus or ear fullness and endolymphatic hydrops (EH) has not yet been explored. We studied 15 patients with symptoms of tinnitus as their major complaint, with or without hearing loss, who were evaluated using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The mean age of the subjects was 59 years (range 35-79 years). Nine were women and six were men. Patients were divided into two groups based on whether they had fluctuating or stable tinnitus. These groups were subdivided in the presence or absence of accompanying sensation of ear fullness. MRI was performed 4 h after intravenous gadolinium administration. Overall, 30 ears were evaluated. EH in the cochlea was present in 14 of 25 symptomatic ears (56 %) in patients with tinnitus as the major complaint. Significant hydrops was present in 7 of 14 ears and mild hydrops in the other ears. Patients with fluctuating tinnitus had EH more frequently than patients with stable tinnitus. Furthermore, the presence of ear fullness also correlated with the presence of EH in the cochlea. However, there was no significant relationship between EH in the cochlea and age, sex, duration of tinnitus, hearing level or the configuration of the audiogram. Our study revealed that patients who had tinnitus as their major symptom often had EH. Using MRI to identify this covert early EH in patients who have tinnitus as their major symptom may broaden the treatment options for tinnitus.
Quality of life in patients with tinnitus and sensorineural hearing loss.	The severity of tinnitus often correlates to psychological and general health factors and the risk of depression and insomnia may be higher in patients with tinnitus.
The analogy between tinnitus and pain: a suggestion for a physiological basis of chronic tinnitus.	A new hypothesis is developed concerning the origin of chronic tinnitus. It is based on an analogy between tinnitus and intractable pain, both of their causes being seen in the de-afferentation of nerve fibers. It is suggested that in the control of tinnitus the same interplay exists between large inner-hair-cell fibers, and small outer-hair-cell fibers, provided they are deafferented, that was demonstrated to exist between large and small deafferented fibers of the somato-sensory system in the control of pain.
The diagnosis and management of cerebellopontine angle tumors.	The diagnosis and surgical management of cerebellopontine angle tumors remains a challenge. Early detection and microsurgical technique have lowered mortality rates and have allowed surgeons to preserve facial nerve function in a high percentage of cases. The purpose of this paper is to report a series of 171 lesions removed through the middle fossa, translabyrinthine, and combined translabyrinthine-suboccipital approaches. Results and complications are covered in detail.
Tinnitus and otalgia in temporomandibular disorders.	A heterogeneous group of 105 TM patients were questioned about tinnitus and otalgia at an initial visit and again at a final visit 32 months later. Analysis of data showed no statistically positive correlation between the two symptoms although most patients had difficulty in separating onset of both symptoms. Tinnitus was more common within 1 to 5 years after onset than 10 to 15 years after onset. Tinnitus appeared to be an individual problem and was neither group- nor gender-related. Few patients identified an etiology for tinnitus. The use of oral appliances seemed to reduce or eliminate symptoms and the number of patients with fluctuating tinnitus decreased by one half between visits. No change occurred for patients with severe tinnitus.
Tinnitus as a source of internal noise.	For 7 patients with sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus, pitch and loudness matches were made to the tinnitus. These matches were followed by measurement of three psychometric functions (probability of a correct response as a function of signal level) for pure tones, one in the presumed tinnitus region (i.e., at the average frequency matching the pitch of the tinnitus), one below the minimum frequency of the matches, and one above the maximum frequency of the matches. The data reveal that pitch-loudness matches are usually quite variable and that the slope of the psychometric function is flattest in the presumed tinnitus region. The first result is consistent with the idea that tinnitus is an unstable signal. The second result is consistent with the notion that the unstable tinnitus acts as a source of "internal" noise.
Magnitude estimation and the "paradoxical" loudness of tinnitus.	Ten patients with sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus matched external tones to the tinnitus pitch. These matches were followed by magnitude estimates to measure the loudness function of tones at 1 kHz at the presumed tinnitus frequency (i.e., at the average frequency matching the pitch of the tinnitus), magnitude estimates of the tinnitus itself, and loudness matches of external tones to the tinnitus. The slope of the loudness function at 1 kHz is substantially smaller than the slope at the presumed tinnitus frequency. Most importantly, the magnitude estimates of the tinnitus coupled with intensity matches to the tinnitus provide coordinates that typically lie near the loudness function of the external tone used in the intensity match. Because the slope of the loudness function is much greater at the tinnitus frequency than at 1 kHz, the magnitude estimate of tinnitus loudness corresponds to a lower sensation level at that frequency than at 1 kHz. This finding favors the conclusion that rapid changes in loudness of external tones at the tinnitus frequency account for the "paradoxical" loudness of the tinnitus. The conclusion is independent of any mathematical description of the loudness function.
Spontaneous perilymphatic fistula.	Sudden hearing loss from spontaneous perilymphatic fistula in a child managed by prompt surgical intervention and with recovery of hearing has not previously been reported. The historical and contemporary theories of fistula formation are reviewed. A child with spontaneous oval window rupture associated with a congenital malformation of the stapes and cochlear aqueduct is described together with his complete recovery of hearing following surgical repair. Some rationales explaining the mechanism of oval window rupture in this patient are suggested.
Inner ear involvement in Behçet's disease.	Ten of 16 patients with Behçet's disease complained of hearing disturbances (62%), and six of them had vertigo (37%). Detailed audiologic and vestibular examinations revealed both cochlear and vestibular abnormalities in those patients. The labyrinth involvement may be ascribed to vasculitis, which is the basic pathologic lesion in Behçet's disease. This inner ear involvement is a late complication of this disease, appearing almost a decade after the initial manifestations.
An approach to the audit of tinnitus management.	This study examines the advantages and internal consistency of an open-ended questionnaire (Benefit-problem questionnaire), over the Tinnitus questionnaire used by Jakes et al. (1985) in the auditing of a stress management programme. The Tinnitus questionnaire showed very little difference pre- and post-treatment, while the Benefit/problem questionnaire showed good improvement over a number of variables. This included some of the more traditional orthogonal values of tinnitus complaint. The clinical assessment made blindly and over a different time scale to the Benefit/problem questionnaire matched these positive results quite closely.
Vestibular findings associated with chronic noise induced hearing impairment.	Histological and functional derangements of the vestibular system have been reported in laboratory animals exposed to high levels of noise. However, clinical series describe contradictory results with regard to vestibular disturbances in industrial workers and military personnel suffering from noise induced hearing loss (NIHL). The purpose of the present study was to evaluate vestibular function in a group of subjects with documented NIHL, employing electronystagmography (ENG) and the smooth harmonic acceleration (SHA) test. Subjects were 22 men suffering from NIHL and 21 matched controls. Significantly lower vestibulo-ocular reflex gain (p = 0.05), and a tendency towards decreased caloric responses were found in the study group. No differences in the incidence of vertigo symptoms, spontaneous, positional and positioning nystagmus, directional preponderance and canal paresis in the ENG, or the SHA test phase and asymmetry parameters were observed between the groups. These results demonstrated a symmetrical centrally compensated decrease in the vestibular end organ response which is associated with the symmetrical hearing loss measured in the study group. Statistically significant correlations were found between the average hearing loss, the decrement in the average vestibulo-ocular reflex gain (p = 0.01), and ENG caloric lateralization (p = 0.02). These correlations might indicate a single mechanism for both cochlear and vestibular noise-induced injury. The results imply subclinical, well compensated malfunction of the vestibular system associated with NIHL.
Cogan's syndrome: ophthalmic, audiovestibular, and systemic manifestations and therapy.	Cogan's syndrome is an idiopathic inflammatory disease which may present as interstitial keratitis, inflammation of other ocular structures, Meniere's-like attacks, or systemic vasculitis. Although the ocular manifestations respond to topical steroids and are rarely serious, permanent deafness may result if systemic steroid therapy is not promptly instituted for audiovestibular dysfunction, while major morbidity and even death may occur if systemic sequelae such as vasculitis and aortic insufficiency are not recognized. For these reasons, ophthalmologists must suspect Cogan's syndrome in any patient presenting with ocular inflammation who develops hearing loss, vertigo, ataxia, tinnitus, systemic vasculitis, or aortic insufficiency.
Tinnitus as an early indicator of permanent hearing loss. A 15 year longitudinal study of noise exposed workers.	A retrospective study was designed to evaluate tinnitus (ringing or other sounds in the ears or head) as a potential early indicator of permanent hearing loss in a population of noise exposed workers. Data were examined from 91 male employees working in environments with noise levels ranging from 8 hour time weighted averages of 85 to 101 dBA over a period of 15 years. Results of annual audiometric testing were obtained as part of an ongoing hearing conservation program conducted since 1971 by ESCO Corporation, a steel foundry located in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Results indicate the prevalence of tinnitus increases more than two and one half times for workers experiencing maximum threshold shifts > or = 15 decibels in hearing level (dBHL). Results also provide evidence that reports of tinnitus at the time of annual audiometric testing may be useful in identifying workers at greater risk for developing significant shifts in hearing thresholds.
An exogenous psychotraumatizing factor as one of the causes for the development of neurotic reactions in subjects suffering from sensorineural hypoacusis]	We performed special psychological investigations in 120 patients with neurosensory hypoacusis (NSHA) and emotional somatovegetative disorders. These patients were found to have neurosis and neurosis-like conditions. To elucidate the involvement of the exogenic factor on the onset of neurotic reactions in NSHA, we performed a questionnaire survey reflecting the attitude of the family, coworkers, strangers to people with hearing problems. It was found that neuroses and neurosis-like conditions in NSHA patients are provoked not only by premorbid personality traits but also by exogenic psychotraumatic factors.
