Ménière's disease in childhood.	We report 3 rare cases of Ménière's disease in children. In Case 1 and 3, vertigo, hearing loss and tinnitus recovered soon after medical therapy. In Case 2, however, vertigo recurred and the hearing level on the right side markedly deteriorated. The equal-loudness contours on three-dimensional audiogram showed that right-sided aggravated hearing loss fluctuated for 4 years at middle-and low-frequencies despite medication. Finally intratympanic injection of gentamicin sulfate was performed. The patient has had no definitive spell of vertigo after gentamicin therapy. At our department, the incidence of Ménière's disease in pediatric patients with vertigo was 2.9%.
Masking devices and alprazolam treatment for tinnitus.	Effective tinnitus relief can be achieved in a large percentage of patients using appropriately selected wearable devices that provide masking of the tinnitus. Guidelines are presented for selecting between three types of devices for that purpose: (1) tinnitus maskers; (2) hearing aids; and (3) tinnitus instruments (units that combine hearing aid and masker in the same case). For patients whose tinnitus cannot be masked, oral administration of alprazolam may be an effective alternative, which should be done with the knowledge and cooperation of the patient's primary care physician. Dosages and guidelines for administering alprazolam are presented.
Transtympanic management of tinnitus.	Transtympanic therapy is becoming and important treatment modality for many inner ear disorders. The current therapies aimed at Meniere's disease, sudden sensorineural hearing loss, noise-induced hearing loss, and the tinnitus associated with these disorders and idiopathic tinnitus, however, represents simply an evolutionary step in this treatment modality and must be validated by further scientific study. A number of promising developments including newer more targeted neuroactive medicines, a better understanding of medicine delivery, and the knowledge of the site, origin, and pathophysiology of the symptoms complex will make this therapy more effective. In the future it is possible that many inner ear disorders will be amenable to inner ear medical therapy. Ideally in the future with knowledge of the disease and its etiology the physician will simply pick the established medicine, the established dose, and the established route of administration and achieve a relatively predictable result.
Objective high-frequency tinnitus of middle-ear myoclonus.	Tinnitus produced by middle-ear myoclonus is a rare condition. In this article, a rare case of unilateral continuous high-frequency objective tinnitus caused by middle-ear myoclonus is described. This condition appears to be the second case reported in the literature. Otoscopic examination revealed visible rhythmic movements of the tympanic membrane. Weak clicking sounds were heard around the right ear by auscultation. Direct stimulation of the soft palate showed no evidence of palated myoclonus. Tympanometry confirmed rhythmic changes in the middle-ear compliance. The condition was effectively treated with a muscle relaxant (orphenadrine citrate).
Intratympanic dexamethasone injections as a treatment for severe, disabling tinnitus: does it work?	To test the effectiveness of intratympanic dexamethasone injections as a treatment for severe disabling cochlear tinnitus.
Intratympanic dexamethasone injection effects on transient-evoked otoacoustic emission.	To investigate the effects of intratympanic dexamethasone injection, which is done because of tinnitus, on transient evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) and so determine whether given dexamethasone cause any damage in the inner ear.
Antidepressant treatment of tinnitus patients. Interim report of a randomized clinical trial.	Previous studies have shown that severe tinnitus is associated with current major depression, and that tricyclic antidepressant therapy reduces tinnitus disability, at least compared to brief placebo treatment. We are completing a randomized clinical trial of nortriptyline, stratified by presence or absence of current major depression, in 100 patients with severe chronic tinnitus. Preliminary analysis of global outcome on the first 52 patients reveals that those receiving nortriptyline were more likely to feel that their drug had been helpful (74% vs. 36%, p less than 0.01), but were equally likely to report that their tinnitus was improved (37% vs. 32%, NS). So far, neither audiometric nor self-report measures of tinnitus have demonstrated statistically significant differences between active drug and placebo. Simply administered visual rating scales, if externally-referenced, correlated better with global outcome than did the Iowa Tinnitus Handicap Questionnaire. As expected, nortriptyline was significantly superior to placebo with respect to reductions in the Hamilton Depression Scale, especially in depressed patients. Paradoxically, depressed patients reported more disability and loudness on all scales, but had lower 1 kHz tinnitus intensity matches and dynamic ranges. Our preliminary conclusions are that: 1) nortriptyline reduces depression in patients with severe tinnitus, 2) placebo effects are very important in the treatment of tinnitus, 3) depression may be associated with decreased tolerance for both internal and external sounds, and 4) it is still difficult to specify the appropriate measures of tinnitus loudness and disability for use in therapeutic trials.
Botulinum toxin is effective and safe for palatal tremor: a report of five cases and a review of the literature.	Palatal tremor (formerly palatal myoclonus) is an extremely rare, but potentially treatable cause, of objective tinnitus. The tinnitus is thought to be secondary to rhythmic involuntary movements of the soft palate. Its aetiology is variable and it remains difficult to treat. Many different medical and surgical remedies have been tried but none have demonstrated reproducible success. Botulinum toxin has been used in sporadic cases and seems to produce good results. Ten patients with palatal tremor have presented to this department over the last three years. After discussion with the patients with regard to the management of this condition and possible complications, five opted for botulinum toxin therapy and five declined further intervention. Clinical diagnosis was made on the confirmation of soft palate movements synchronous with an audible clicking noise. Five patients underwent botulinum toxin injection into the insertion of the levator and tensor veli palatini muscles. Of the five that were treated with toxin, four showed complete resolution of symptoms after a course of treatment. Only one patient reported transient side effects. This would suggest that botulinum toxin is a safe and effective first line treatment for palatal tremor.
Treatment of tinnitus with gabapentin: a pilot study.	To evaluate the effectiveness of gabapentin (Neurontin) improve the disease-specific quality of life in patients with moderate tinnitus.
Low dose transtympanic gentamicin treatment for intractable Meniere's disease: a prospective study.	To evaluate the effectiveness of low dose transtympanic gentamicin treatment in Meniere's disease.
Relief of idiopathic subjective tinnitus: is gabapentin effective?	To assess the therapeutic benefit of gabapentin (Neurontin) for subjective idiopathic troublesome tinnitus.
Trial of flecainide acetate in the management of tinnitus.	A two-phase trial of flecainide acetate in the management of tinnitus has been carried out in 22 patients with severe long-term tinnitus resistant to other treatments. Although 5 (23%) patients reported some limited benefit the results are not conclusive but suggest that, for such patients, flecainide deserves a place as a drug worth considering as a last resort, with the prospect of it occasionally giving a worthwhile degree of relief.
Efficacy of gabapentin on subjective idiopathic tinnitus: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.	Tinnitus can cause extreme morbidity. Despite many attempts to find a treatment for idiopathic cases, they remain difficult to manage. Because nerve injury is one of the suspected etiologies of tinnitus and because gabapentin has been found to be effective in treating nerve injuries, some authors have attempted to determine if gabapentin has a role in treating tinnitus. Although gabapentin was found to be ineffective for tinnitus in these previous studies, to the best of our knowledge no studies have been performed that took into consideration the presence of various accompanying factors and concomitant diseases that might influence its effect. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of gabapentin for idiopathic tinnitus. We treated 40 patients with gabapentin and measured its effectiveness by comparing differences between pre- and post-treatment Tinnitus Severity Index (TSI) values and tinnitus loudness scores. We also compared these outcomes with those of a group of 40 matched placebo controls. At study's end, we found no significant differences between the gabapentin and control groups in mean decreases in TSI value and loudness score (p=0.85 and p=0.12, respectively). However, we did find that patients with hypertension, diabetes, and/or dyslipidemia showed a better response to gabapentin than did those with tinnitus alone (p=0.01). We conclude that although there was no statistically significant difference between gabapentin and placebo in treating isolated tinnitus or tinnitus overall, patients with concomitant hypertension, diabetes, and/or dyslipidemia may benefit from gabapentin.
Tinnitus Retraining Therapy (TRT): outcomes after one-year treatment.	The aim of the study is to present our results regarding the efficacy of TRT for tinnitus relief in patients with clinically significant tinnitus compared to a group treated with vasoactive agents. In a nonrandomized prospective study, 63 patients with disabling tinnitus were recruited. Greek translation of the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) and visual analogue scale (VAS) for annoyance caused by tinnitus when conducting four major activities of everyday life (work, sleep, relaxation and concentration) were examined in a 12-month period. The THI score was significantly improved in the TRT group, as well as mean VAS scores, in all measures. Comparison of the mean improvement of THI and VAS scores after treatment showed significant differences between the two groups, favoring TRT treatment. Our data suggest that TRT is an effective treatment. It reduces the level of annoyance induced by tinnitus and improves the ability of patients to work, sleep, relax or be concentrated.
Pharmacotherapy of acute and chronic tinnitus]	The aetiology of acute tinnitus is mostly idiopathic like sudden sensorineural hearing loss or caused by noise and rarely infectious or vascular. Therefore there is currently no causal and effective drug therapy available. Although there is a low level of evidence, treatment with glucocorticoids and initially plasma expanding infusions (HES) is recommended for acute tinnitus if there is no spontaneous remission. Intratympanic glucocorticoid therapy can be used as an alternative if there is severe hearing loss together with tinnitus. In chronic tinnitus there is really no indication for pharmacotherapy. Sometimes
Clinical investigation on the beneficial effects of the Chinese medicinal herb Gushen Pian on sensorineural deafness and tinnitus.	The objective is to study the therapeutic effects of Gushen Pian on sensorineural deafness according to the Phase II clinical trial protocol, as approved for novel traditional Chinese medicines by Ministry of Health of PRC. This is a double blind study in which 120 patients were allocated randomly into treatment and control groups and an open treatment group (40 cases in each group). Patients in the treatment groups were administrated with Gushen Pian and controls received placebo. Routine examination of blood and urine, hepatic and renal function tests and pure tone audiometry were performed before and after treatment. Clinical symptoms and therapeutic outcomes were compared and evaluated. For double-blind treatment group, the total effective rate of deafness was 42.2% and total relieved rate of deafness was 4.6%; for double-blind control group, the total effective rate of deafness was 18.7% and total relieved rate of deafness was 0%; for simple treatment group, the total effective rate of deafness was 58.7% and total relieved rate of deafness was 6.3%. For double-blind treatment group, the total effective rate of tinnitus was 89.2% and total relieved rate of tinnitus was 59.5%; for double-blind control group, the total effective rate of tinnitus was 30.8% and total relieved rate of tinnitus was 5.1%; for simple treatment group, the total effective rate of tinnitus was 74.3% and total relieved rate of tinnitus was 57.1%. The double-blind treatment showed statistically significant differences from control group. The medication could effectively alleviate aural fullness, dizziness, lassitude of loins and knees, dysphoria with feverish sensation in chest, insomnia, and fatigue, etc. No adverse effect was reported during treatment; no abnormal results were reported in blood, urine, faces, heart function, liver function and kidney function examination. Gushen Pian had beneficial effect on deafness and tinnitus and could effectively alleviate aural fullness, insomnia, etc., without any adverse effects.
Intratympanic dexamethasone injection for refractory tinnitus: prospective placebo-controlled study.	The purpose of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of intratympanic dexamethasone injections (ITDI) for refractory tinnitus.
The effect of intravenous administration of xylocaine for the treatment of tinnitus]	One hundreds and forty-nine patients (221 ears) suffering from tinnitus were treated by an intravenous administration of Xylocaine. Xylocaine, 1mg per kg, was administered once a week. The immediate effect of Xylocaine on tinnitus was evaluated subjectively for all the patients. The long term effect in 57 patients who received Xylocaine administration more than 12 times was also analyzed. The results can be summarized as follows. 1. Short and long term relief of tinnitus was obtained in 165 of 221 ears (74.7%) and in 35 of 57 cases (61.4%), respectively. 2. This therapy was more effective in old patients and in the patients with low pitch tinnitus, or with positive residual inhibition. 3. The numbers of the effective cases increased after the 8th time administration of Xylocaine. Thus we recommend the Xylocaine administration at least 8 times. 4. The results of the loudness balance test were not correlated with the change of the subjective improvements. 5. The suppressive effect of tinnitus by injecting saline solution intravenously was recognized in 24 of 73 cases. At present, repeated administration of Xylocaine would be one of the most significant therapies of tinnitus.
The therapy of tinnitus resulting from blast injury (author's transl)]	In a prospective study aimed at the cure of tinnitus due to blast injury, oral treatment of 172 patients with the mono-substances Betahistine, Pentoxifyllin and Xantinol-nicotinate were compared with those of control patients who received no medications. Patients treated with Pentoxifyllin and Xantinol-nicotinate improved better than the comparative group without therapy although the differences were not considerable. Betahistine as compared with the other groups produced significantly better therapeutic results.
A multicenter study of tinnitus. Epidemiology and therapy]	A comparative, randomized multicenter study of 259 patients with tinnitus had three objectives. First, to conduct an epidemiology survey of cases of tinnitus of less than one year duration. Second, to determine prognostic factors to establish profiles of patients with different courses of the disorder. Third, to quantify therapeutic efficacy of three medicines of the same therapeutic class but with different modes of action: Ginkgo biloba extract, almitrine-raubasine and nicergoline. Statistical analysis of findings showed prognostic significance for 3 parameters: chronicity, periodicity and uni- or bilateral nature of symptom, as well as the value of Ginkgo biloba in the treatment of tinnitus unrelated to its initial description.
Treatment of tinnitus with tocainide hydrochloride.	Intravenous (IV) injection of lidocaine was used in patients with tinnitus for combined treatment with oral anticonvulsants carbamazepine (Tegretol) and primidone (Mysoline). In most cases, the high complication rate with these drugs precluded their long-term use. Tocainide hydrochloride (HCl), a primary amine analog of lidocaine, can be taken orally and was evaluated for the use in the treatment of tinnitus. A double-blind study in which one group received 200 mg tocainide HCl four times a day and one group received a placebo revealed no significant differences in tinnitus relief between the two groups. A single-blind study in which 600 mg tocainide HCl four times a day was administered showed 80% to 98% tinnitus relief in five of the six patients who tolerated the drug. Tocainide HCl treatment of tinnitus is promising.
Tinnitus: a double-blind crossover controlled trial to evaluate the use of lignocaine.	A double-blind crossover controlled trial assessing the use of intravenous lignocaine in the treatment of tinnitus is reported. Possible modes of action of the drug are suggested. It is shown that intravenous lignocaine is effective in reducing tinnitus, although duration of such effect is short. Consistently effective oral preparations to control tinnitus are yet to be described.
Ginkgo extract EGb 761 (tenobin)/HAES versus naftidrofuryl (Dusodril)/HAES. A randomized study of therapy of sudden deafness]	80 patients with idiopathic sudden hearing loss existing no longer than 10 days were included in a randomised reference-controlled study. The therapeutic value of Ginkgo EGb 761 (Tebonin) + HAES was compared to that of Naftidrofuryl (Dusodril)+HAES. The main mechanisms of action of EGb 761 are a vasoregulating activity (increased blood flow), the platelet activating factor antagonism and a prevention of membrane damage caused by free radicals. Naftidrofuryl has antiserotonergic and therefore vasodilatory properties. The statistical analysis of the audiometric data was performed in measuring the relative hearing gain as described by Eibach 1979. After one week of observation, 40% of the patients in each group showed a complete remission of hearing loss. This was also observed by other authors who had compared other drugs. Therefore, in these cases, it is most likely that spontaneous recovery is the most important factor. After two and three weeks of observation, measuring the relative hearing gain, there was a significant borderline benefit of EGb 761 (p = 0.06) without any side effects. Some patients of the reference group developed side effects such as orthostatic dysregulation or headache or sleep disturbances. Minimising side effects should be one of the most important goals in therapy of sudden hearing loss until the efficiency of infusion therapy is proved.
Hearing disorders after Bungee jumping?]	Acceleration forces in bungee jumping acting on the head are different in nature and extent from those in merry-go-round, looping and scooter rides. They act mainly in the vertical plane, horizontal accelerations may develop only during uncontrollable vibrations in different directions after slowing down. According to our present knowledge the risks for injuries of the cervical spine and functional disorders of the inner ear in bungee jumping are lower than in merry-go-round, looping and scooter rides. They seem to be enhanced, however, in individuals suffering from diseases of the cervical spine and disorders of the heart and the blood circulation.
Ginkgo biloba extract for the treatment of tinnitus.	Previous studies have shown contradictory results of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) treatment of tinnitus. The present study was divided into two parts: first an open part, without placebo control (n = 80), followed by a double-blind placebo-controlled study (n = 20). The patients included in the open study were patients who had been referred to the Department of Audiology, Sahlgren's Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden, due to persistent severe tinnitus. Patients reporting a positive effect on tinnitus in the open study were included in the double-blind placebo-controlled study (20 out of 21 patients participated). 7 patients preferred GBE to placebo, 7 placebo to GBE and 6 patients had no preference. Statistical group analysis gives no support to the hypothesis that GBE has any effect on tinnitus, although it is possible that GBE has an effect on some patients due to several reasons, e.g. the diverse etiology of tinnitus. Since there is no objective method to measure the symptom, the search for an effective drug can only be made on an individual basis.
Cogan's syndrome: a review of otologic management and 10-year follow-up of a pediatric case.	Although first characterized over 45 years ago Cogan's syndrome still remains a rare disease, with a high incidence of poor outcome. Experience with a case of Cogan's syndrome over a 10-year period is presented. The fluctuating clinical evolution and laboratory findings over this period are depicted, starting from presentation at age 10. The response to treatment, as revealed by audiograms, is traced. The literature is reviewed with regard to treatments that have been proposed. In those cases where a sustained follow-up is available, the success of the therapy on the vestibuloauditory system is evaluated. Although some patients have a positive response to steroids, the prognosis for hearing remains poor. The ability of steroids to change the prognosis for hearing loss is not yet established, but warrants further clinical trial.
