Synthesis of bioactive coatings on Ti substrates using glass enamel.	Bioactive coatings on titanium can be prepared by dispersing hydroxyapatite particles into a borosilicate glass enamel doped with TiO2. Adhesion of the coating is obtained when the titanium substrate has been preoxidized before enameling in such a way as to form a continuous TiO2-layer. Adhesion results from the diffusion of this TiO2-layer into the liquid glass during enameling. The evolution of the diffusion zone was followed by scanning electron microscopy and electron probe microanalysis. Adhesion disappears after a critical time of firing which corresponds to the completion of the dissolution of the TiO2-layer by the glass. The borosilicate glass wets the hydroxyapatite particles and adheres strongly to them after cooling.
Removal of infected pacemaker leads with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest and open surgical exploration of the superior vena cava and innominate veins.	Despite the use of transvenous methods for extraction of infected leads, failed attempts may result in retained lead fragments. Retained lead fragments may be a focus of continued infection leading to sepsis. We present two patients in which conversion from cardiopulmonary bypass to hypothermic circulatory arrest allowed direct visualization, using venotomies in the superior vena cava and innominate vein to achieve complete removal of retained pacemaker lead fragments. Use of venotomies in the extracardiac venous system is a technical addition to prior descriptions of lead extraction using deep hypothermia and circulatory arrest.
Field emission in-lens SEM study of enamel and dentin.	This investigation used field emission in-lens scanning electron microscopy (FEISEM) for the study of tooth surfaces, with particular reference to adhesive bonding and acid conditioning. Dentin wafers with an intact enamel periphery were treated by either ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) (pH 7.4) or phosphoric acid (pH 0.7). The samples were then fixed, sequentially dehydrated in alcohol, and either air- or critical point-dried. After coating, surfaces were examined by FEISEM. For enamel, intraprismatic crystals were clearly recognizable, with the crystals showing both a longitudinal and parallel orientation to the long axis of the prisms. For dentin, the surface ultrastructure (mineral crystals and collagen banding) for the both untreated and treated samples was observed. Fine structures measuring on the order of 6 nm were also observed on samples treated by EDTA. We conclude that FEISEM can routinely provide high-resolution images of enamel and dentin, and that it has the capability of revealing the defined distribution of crystals and collagen fibers in dental tissues.
Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass using H graft for pleural symphysis.	In November 1995, video-assisted minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass procedure, which is defined as a combination of the thoracoscopic internal mammary artery (IMA) harvest and direct coronary bypass grafting, was introduced for patients who need minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) using IMA. In the thoracoscopic IMA harvest, the pleural adhesions or symphysis present an obstacle. We present a case where a redo patient who had complete pleural symphysis of left chest cavity precluded the thoracoscopic IMA harvest, and MIDCAB with the H graft procedure was performed.
Adhesion or organization during surgery due to mediastinoscopy before induction therapy for non-small cell lung cancer]	We conducted a retrospective study to investigate amounts of adhesion or organization during surgery due to mediastinoscopy before induction therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). A case series of 13 patients (c-stage IIIA in 11 and IIIB in 2) with right-side NSCLC who underwent induction therapy were assessed. They were between 39 and 71 years old and 8 males and 5 females. Induction therapy was chemotherapy alone in 4 cases and chemo-radiotherapy in 9 cases. The mediastinocopy was used in 4 cases. Mediastinal lymph node resection was incomplete in 3 of the 4 (75%) cases among the mediastinoscopy group but the no-mediastioscopy group had no incomplete resection (p = 0.01), though 2 of the 9 (22%) cases among the chemo-radiation group and 1 of the 4 (25%) among the chemo alone group (p > 0.9). Severe adhesion or organization can occur after the mediastinoscopy and induction therapy, which might be a course of incomplete mediastinal lymph node resection.
Evaluation of anhydride oligomers within polymer microsphere blends and their impact on bioadhesion and drug delivery in vitro.	The effect of the addition of small molecular weight anhydride oligomers to polymer microspheres was evaluated and increased bioadhesion of the composite was demonstrated. Blends of low molecular weight anhydride oligomers with thermoplastic poly(fumaric-co-sebacic anhydride) [p(FASA)] and polycaprolactone were examined. The effects of anhydride oligomers on polymer microsphere degradation, crystallinity, and surface morphology were also explored. The results demonstrated that fumaric anhydride oligomer remained within polymer microspheres for several hours after exposure to phosphate buffer, formed a homogenous crystalline blend, increased bioadhesion as measured on rat intestine, and enhanced drug delivery in vitro as measured by the everted sac technique.
The effect of different power densities and method of exposure on the marginal adaptation of four light-cured dental restorative materials.	To determine whether marginal adhesion is sensitive to different irradiation parameters, we investigated the in vitro adhesion values of four dental resins on metal surfaces.
Polyelectrolytes as adhesion modifiers.	Adsorbed layers of polyelectrolytes have been studied with atomic force microscopy (AFM) and the interferometric surface force apparatus (SFA). Particular emphasis was put on determining the effect of the polyelectrolyte charge density on surface topography, and the effect of the polyelectrolyte coating on the adhesive properties. The AFM was employed to image individual polymer chains at low adsorption densities and to characterize the layer topography and coverage at higher adsorption densities. The adhesive properties between two polyelectrolyte-coated surfaces in air were determined as a function of the number of contacts made at any given spot. The data provide evidence for formation of electrostatic bridges, particularly when highly charged polyelectrolytes are used. Further, material transport between the surfaces is observed when the polyelectrolyte is either highly charged or have a very low charge density. For intermediate charge densities we could not observe any indication of material transfer. The adhesion between one polyelectrolyte-coated surface and one bare surface was initially higher than that between two polyelectrolyte-coated surfaces. However, due to material transfer between the two surfaces the adhesion decreased significantly with the number of times that the surfaces were driven into contact. For the polyelectrolytes of the lowest charge density the results suggest that entanglement effects contribute to the adhesive interaction. The modification of the adhesion by polyelectrolytes in practical systems such as in the case of dry-strength additives to improve paper resistance is also considered.
The clinical effects of hyaluronic acid ester nasal dressing (Merogel) on intranasal wound healing after functional endoscopic sinus surgery.	We sought to determine the efficacy of MeroGel, an absorbable hyaluronic acid nasal dressing (HA) in reducing synechia after functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) compared with Merocel, a nonabsorbable packing (NAP) requiring removal.
Adhesive strength of marine mussel extracts on porcine skin.	The adhesive characteristics of marine mussel adhesive extracts were examined. Adhesive protein extracted from mussels (Mytilus edulis) was used to bond porcine skin in an end-to-end joint cured in controlled environments, without the use of chemical cross-linking reagents. The two curing conditions were similar to common surgical environments-"dry" (25 degrees C and 40% relative humidity) and "humid" (37 degrees C and 80% relative humidity). The first condition is similar to that of an external incision while the second is similar to conditions for internal incisions that are not exposed to significant flow of body fluids. Results were compared with performance of the commercial adhesive fibrin. Cyanoacrylate was also examined to validate the testing procedure. The tissue joint strength was approximately 1MPa for mussel extract joints cured for 24h under "humid" conditions. Under both conditions, joints bonded with mussel extract showed adhesive strengths similar to those bonded with fibrin, for cure times between 12 and 24h. For shorter cure times (<12h) the mussel adhesive bond was weaker than the fibrin bond under both conditions. The presence of moisture seemed to have a significant effect on the performance of both adhesives, especially mussel extracts. These results indicate that tissue joints formed using mussel extract adhesives have comparable strengths to those formed using fibrin (P=0.38), albeit with a slower curing rate. Further investigation of curing agents for the mussel adhesive extract is warranted.
Cornea with Peters' anomaly: perturbed differentiation of corneal cells and abnormal extracellular matrix in the corneal stroma.	We examined histopathologically the anterior ocular segment including the cornea and lens of an eye which had been enucleated in a patient with Peters' anomaly because of untreatable corneal perforation. Special effort was made to differentiate the corneal stromal and endothelial cells, and the stromal extracellular matrix.
Structure and mechanical properties of poly(D,L-lactic acid)/poly(epsilon -caprolactone) blends.	A series of blends of the biodegradable polymers poly(D,L-lactic acid) and poly( epsilon -caprolactone) were prepared by varying mass fraction across the range of compositions. Tensile testing was performed at room temperature using an extensometer and the elastic modulus was calculated for each blend. The blends were also tested to failure, and the strain-at-failure and yield stress recorded. While the blend has been shown to have a lower critical solution temperature, the mechanical properties were insensitive to the annealing conditions. Scanning electron microscopy was used to characterize the blend microstructure and poor adhesion was observed at the interface between blend components. Differential scanning calorimetry was performed but the results were somewhat variable, indicating this blend may have complex phase behavior that depends sensitively on the method of preparation. However, nuclear magnetic resonance data indicate the two components are phase separated. A percolation model is used to explain the observed mechanical data and the results are consistent with the predictions of the Kerner-Uemura-Takayangi model. The results of these experiments demonstrate the utility of polymer blending in tuning material properties.
Properties and immersion behavior of magnetron-sputtered multi-layered hydroxyapatite/titanium composite coatings.	A new biocompatible multi-layered coating was developed by alternately depositing Ti and HA layers on Ti6Al4V substrates using radio frequency magnetron-assisted sputter processing to improve the interface properties between the coating and the substrate. The multi-layered coating consisted of an underlying Ti bond coat, the alternating layer, and an HA top-layer. Between the bond coat and the top layer, an alternating layer was created by means of gradually increasing Ti content with increasing depth from the HA top-layer. The experimental results indicated that the as-sputtered coating had quite uniform thickness and well bonded to the substrate. The multi-layered coating exhibited a better electrochemical behavior than monolithic HA coating. The XRD and low vacuum SEM results consistently indicated that highly crystalline coating was not appreciably dissolvable in simulated body fluid. The adhesion strength higher than 60MPa did not change much even after 14 weeks of immersion. The multi-layered composite coatings had the advantages of high and non-declining adhesion strength and high resistance to SBF attack.
Argon laser laparoscopy: an effective technique for conservative treatment of unruptured ectopic pregnancy.	Between October 1987 and January 1990, 60 patients with unruptured ectopic pregnancy in the ampullary portion of the tube were treated with linear salpingotomy, using the argon laser laparoscopically. In all cases, salpingotomy was performed by the "bare-fiber" technique, with a power of 3-6 watts. The same fiber was used for incision and coagulation either with a contact or a non-contact technique. There were no instrument-related intra- or postoperative complications. Twenty-four patients were evaluated by second-look laparoscopy or hysterosalpingography for tube patency and possible formation of adhesions. In all of these patients the tubes were patent. In one patient, the tube failed to close, resulting in a fistula. Four patients had filmy adhesions, covering the tube near the incision site. There were no adhesions covering the distal part of the tube.
Results of animal experiments on alloplastic tendon replacements using the Bader tendon prosthesis]	Based on our experimental results with the Bader tendon prosthesis, encouraging results for alloplastic tendon replacement were obtained. However a general recommendation for its clinical use cannot be given. Over a period of 4-6 weeks of immobilization healing of the artificial tendon with inflammation could be observed. In the biopsies we found the equivalent of connective tissue attachment between vital tissue and the alloplastic material. We could not clarify whether this connection would endure strain. The pronounced adhesions between the anstomosis and surrounding tissue make later function questionable.
Salpingostomy by microsurgery.	Salpingostomy for hydrosalpinx was carried out using a microsurgical technique. The postoperative patency rate was over 90%. Among the 41 patients followed for more than 1 year, 29% have had one or more intrauterine pregnancies and 27% have had live births. The ectopic gestation rate was 12%. All of the tubal gestations occurred in the 1st postoperative year whereas 60% of the intrauterine pregnancies occurred after the 1st year, suggesting a degree of restoration in the mucosa and the musculature of the oviduct with the re-establishment of patency and the passage of time.
Uterine suspension through the laparoscope.	We present a series of 20 patients who underwent uterine suspension performed through a laparoscope, as part of conservative treatment for infertility and pelvic pain. The operative technique is easily mastered by a skilled laparoscopist who is prepared to deal with intra- or postoperative complications. Avulsion of the round ligament was the most serious complication experienced. Operating time was brief, and the hospital stay was short.
The predictive factors for the necessity of operative treatment in adhesive small bowel obstruction cases.	The timely diagnosis of adhesive small bowel obstruction (SBO) can frequently be a clinical dilemma. The objective of this study was to evaluate the predictive factors for the necessity of operative treatment in adhesive SBO cases.
The preventive effect of Rofecoxib in postoperative intraperitoneal adhesions.	Previous studies showed that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAI) drugs suppressed prostaglandin synthesis and were able to prevent adhesion formation following surgical trauma to the peritoneum. The selective suppression inflammatory cascade may prevent adhesion formation. Therefore, we planned this study to experimentally evaluate the effects of Rofecoxib, the selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor, in postoperative intraperitoneal adhesions in an animal model.
Opportunities in the industrial biobased products industry.	Approximately 89 million metric t of organic chemicals and lubricants, the majority of which are fossil based, are produced annually in the United States. The development of new industrial bioproducts, for production in stand-alone facilities or biorefineries, has the potential to reduce our dependence on imported oil and improve energy security. Advances in biotechnology are enabling the optimization of feedstock composition and agronomic characteristics and the development of new and improved fermentation organisms for conversion of biomass to new end products or intermediates. This article reviews recent biotechnology efforts to develop new industrial bioproducts and improve renewable feedstocks and key market opportunities.
Predictors of prolonged air leak after pulmonary lobectomy.	The objective of this study was to identify the predictors of prolonged air leak (air leak longer than 7 days) in patients submitted to pulmonary lobectomy for lung cancer.
Comparison of epiretinal membranes of differing pathogenesis using optical coherence tomography.	To compare optical coherence tomography (OCT) images of idiopathic epiretinal membranes (ERMs) with those of secondary ERMs.
Biocompatibility of ePTFE modified by ion beam irradiation]	Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) is a stable polymer and widely used as a prosthesis because of its chemical inertness. However, ePTFE as an artificial dura mater is often associated with postoperative leakage of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) due to its very low adhesiveness to fibrin glue and surrounding tissue. To overcome this shortcoming the authors examined the effects of ion beam irradiation to ePTFE surface. The surfaces of ePTFE were irradiated with 150keV--He+, Ne-, Ar+ and Kr+ ions with fluences of 1 x 10(14), 5 x 10(14) and 1 x 10(15) ions/cm2. L929 fibroblasts were cultured for 24 hours on ePTFE sheets that had both ion beam irradiated and un-irradiated regions. It was confirmed that fibroblasts still adhered to the ion beam irradiated area. This phenomenon was observed under different condition of ion beam irradiation. Adhesive strength of fibrin glue to ion beam irradiated ePTFE was evaluated by tensile strength and burst pressure test using ePTFE patch. Both tensile strength and burst pressure were remarkably enhanced by ion beam irradiation. SEM study indicated that fibrin glue infiltrated and anchored into the gaps induced by the ion beam irradiation. Thus ion beam irradiation improved biocompatibility of the surface of ePTFE.
Atopic gallbladder. Case report, embryologic etiology and review of the literature]	Abnormal position of the gallbladder seems to be rare, but knowledge about the varieties helps to avoid intraoperative complications regarding the spreading procedure of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In the reported case the gallbladder was found in the lower right abdomen fixed by adhesions to the jejunum. Embryological aspects are discussed and a literature review is given.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy--what is the value of laparoscopic technique in "difficult" cases?]	This prospective study with an external control group of patients investigates the technical aspects of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in patients with difficult intraabdominal situations as well as the postoperative quality of life of these persons. Difficult concomitant circumstances were defined when those patients had multiple adhesions after previous abdominal surgery in the middle and upper quadrants, acute cholecystitis, and severe obesity. 100 patients after classic cholecystectomy represented the external control group. 170 patients were followed after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Endpoints of investigation were duration of operation, complications, postoperative hospitalization, and postoperative quality of life. Major complications occurred in 1.2%. Although in patients after laparoscopy minor complications were registered at a higher incidence than in classic cholecystectomy, the patients' postoperative quality of life improved significantly faster after laparoscopy in all patients groups. These results show that even patients with severe adhesions, with acute cholecystitis and with prolonged duration of operation still profit from the laparoscopic technique in comparison to laparotomy.
Ultrasound selection criteria for laparoscopic cholecystectomy]	Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was carried out in 340 patients in the period November 9, 1990, to November 8, 1991. Preoperatively sonographical selection was in use. Only in 3 cases it was necessary to convert to laparotomy and cholecystectomy (including one elective conversion). 80% of the patients admitted to the hospital with symptomatic gallstones could be treated by laparoscopic technique. There was no injury of the bile ducts. Most relevant criterias for sonographical selection are the following: Thickening of the wall of the gallbladder, diameter and number of the gallstones, position of the fundus of the gallbladder in relation to the caudal margin of the liver, diameter of the common bile duct and exclusion of intraabdominal adhesions by using a high-frequent ultrasound transducer. Sonographical criterias for exclusion are a completely stone-filled gallbladder, a scleroatrophic gallbladder, acute cholecystitis with wall-thickening without edema and extended intraabdominal adhesions in the right upper quadrant. Sensitivity of sonographical selection was 98.5%, specifity 97.6%.
Gelatin-embedded cell-polymer constructs for histological cryosectioning.	Many tissue-engineering strategies involve the delivery of cells via porous polymer scaffolds. Obtaining histological sections of the emerging tissue is often necessary to analyze numerous characteristics of the microscopic environment. However, difficulties arise upon applying standard histological techniques to cell-seeded polymer scaffolds. This report describes a simple and reliable method for cryosectioning cell-polymer constructs embedded in gelatin. Solvent-soluble (PLGA) and insoluble (PGA) scaffolds were cultured in vitro with preosteoblasts, followed by histological processing with paraffin, OCT, or gelatin. Although paraffin-embedded PGA scaffolds withstood standard sectioning and rinsing steps, paraffin-embedded PLGA scaffolds were partially dissolved during the clearing step. OCT-embedded scaffolds produced sections that did not adhere well to slides, and most of the sample was lost during rinsing steps. In contrast, gelatin-embedded scaffolds exhibited adequate structural integrity during cryosectioning, adhered well to the slides, retained the actual polymer morphology, and exhibited compatibility with common stains.
Hydroxyapatite and titania sol-gel composite coatings on titanium for hard tissue implants; mechanical and in vitro biological performance.	Hydroxyapatite (HA) composites with titania (TiO2) up to 30 mol % were coated on a titanium (Ti) substrate by a sol-gel route, and the mechanical and biological properties of the coating systems were evaluated. Using polymeric precursors, highly stable HA and TiO2 sols were prepared prior to making composite sols and coatings. Coatings were produced under a controlled spinning and heat treatment process. Pure phases of HA and TiO2 were well developed on the composites after heat treatment above 450 degrees C. The HA-TiO2 composite coating layers were homogeneous and highly dense with a thickness of about 800-900 nm. The adhesion strength of the coating layers with respect to Ti substrate increased with increasing the TiO2 addition. The highest strength obtained was as high as 56 MPa, with an improvement of about 50% when compared to pure HA (37 MPa). The osteoblast-like cells grew and spread actively on all the composite coatings. The proliferation and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity of the cells grown on the composite coatings were much higher than those on bare Ti, and even comparable to those on pure HA coating. Notably, the HA-20% TiO2 composite coating showed a significantly higher proliferation and ALP expression compared to bare Ti (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that the sol-gel-derived HA-TiO2 composite coatings possess excellent properties for hard tissue applications from the mechanical and biological perspective.
Static mechanical properties of hydroxyapatite (HA) powder-filled acrylic bone cements: effect of type of HA powder.	This work reports on the effect of the amount (0, 10, and 30 wt %) and type of HA powder incorporated into an acrylic bone cement on the tensile properties, compression properties, and fracture toughness. The three different types of HA powders used were synthesized in the laboratory and coated with a silane agent prior to incorporation into the cement powder, and differed in particle size, water content, surface area, and crystallinity. It was found that the inclusion of any type of HA powder led to an increase in the tensile modulus (ET), but all the other mechanical properties of the cement decreased (relative to the values of the unfilled cement). The increase in ET is attributed to the good adhesion between the filler and the cement matrix, which is due to the silane coating agent. The decrease in the other mechanical properties may be a consequence of HA powder agglomeration and porosity. Hydroxyapatite morphology and crack-growth mechanisms were analyzed by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM).
Cyst puncture aspiration in 40 cases of abdominal echinococcosis]	To evaluate the efficacy of cyst puncture aspiration in treating abdominal echinococcosis.
Microbial adhesion to poly(ethylene oxide) brushes: influence of polymer chain length and temperature.	Glass surfaces were modified by end-grafting poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) chains having molecular weights of 526, 2000, or 9800 Da. Characterization using water contact angles, ellipsometry, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy confirmed the presence of the PEO brushes on the surface with estimated lengths in water of 2.8-, 7.5-, and 23.7-nm, respectively. Adhesion of two bacterial (Staphylococcus epidermidis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and two yeast (Candida albicans and Candida tropicalis) strains to these brushes was studied and compared to their adhesion to bare glass. For the bacterium P. aeruginosa and the yeast C. tropicalis, adhesion to the 2.8-nm brush was comparable to their adhesion on bare glass, whereas adhesion to the 7.5- and 23.7-nm brushes was greatly reduced. For S. epidermidis, adhesion was only slightly higher to the 2.8-nm brush than that to the longer brushes. Adhesion of the yeast C. albicans to the PEO brushes was lower than that to glass, but no differences in adhesion were found between the three brush lengths. After passage of an air bubble, nearly all microorganisms adhering to a brush were removed, irrespective of brush length, whereas retention of the adhering organisms on glass was much higher. No significant differences were found in adhesion nor retention between experiments conducted at 20 and those conducted at 37 degrees C.
AFM study of the behavior of polystyrene and glass particles during the electrodeposition of copper.	In this paper, the behavior of polystyrene and glass particles on a copper electrode during the electrodeposition of copper was studied using an atomic force microscope (AFM). Polystyrene or glass particles glued to the tip of the AFM cantilever were kept in contact with the surface of the electrode. The surface forces between the polystyrene or glass particle and the copper electrode were measured before, during, and after electrodeposition. These experiments revealed that glass particles do not make contact with the electrode, probably due to the repulsive hydration force. Polystyrene particles, on the other hand, make contact with the electrode, due to the attractive hydrophobic force. The AFM experiments were correlated with sedimentation co-deposition experiments of polystyrene and glass particles with copper. It was found that 80% of the polystyrene particles added to the plating solution incorporated with copper, while only 0.25% of the glass particles co-deposited under the same conditions.
Small bowel obstruction during pregnancy.	The authors report the case of a 28-year old pregnant woman with abdominal pain and contractions at 37 weeks of gestation. After labour and delivery, abdominal pain persisted and laparoscopy was performed. A bowel obstruction was diagnosed and surgically corrected. The authors discuss the clinical and therapeutic consequences of bowel obstruction during pregnancy.
Modulation of proliferating renal epithelial cell affinity for calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals.	Adhesion of urinary crystals to distal tubular cells could be a critical event that triggers a cascade of responses ending in kidney stone formation. Monolayer cultures of distal nephron-derived MDCKI cells were used as a model to study crystal-cell interactions. COM crystal adhesion reached a peak 2 d after plating and progressively fell thereafter. The decline in crystal binding was accelerated by prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) supplementation and delayed by blockade of PG production. Crystals avidly adhered to cells that migrated in to repair a scrape wound made in the monolayer and after a transient hypoglycemic insult. Exposure of MDCKI cells to uric acid crystals and soluble uric acid was also associated with increased crystal adhesion. Treatment of physically or hypoglycemically injured cells with trypsin or neuraminidase reduced crystal binding to baseline levels, suggesting that increased exposure of cell surface glycoproteins mediated the effect, whereas PGE(2) treatment blunted crystal binding to regenerating cells. Furthermore, when cells were grown in the presence of synthetic d-mannosamine analogues that can modify the conformation of cell surface sialoglycoconjugates, crystal binding to proliferating cells was decreased, whereas blockade of N-glycosylation with tunicamycin increased crystal adhesion to these cells. Therefore, COM crystal binding is enhanced to growing renal cells, synthesis of N-glycosylated cell surface proteins is essential to downregulate crystal binding to cells, and this response is modulated by physiologic signals such as PGE(2). Sialic acid residues seem to mediate crystal adhesion to growing cells, either directly or via linkage to other crystal-binding molecules. Subtle renal injury and subsequent nephron repair could be a factor promoting crystal adhesion and favoring calculus formation.
Risk factors for bladder injury during cesarean delivery.	To identify risk factors for bladder injury during cesarean delivery so as to inform patients and practitioners of these risks.
Adherent apatite coating on titanium substrate using chemical deposition.	Plasma-sprayed "HA" coatings on commercial orthopedic and dental implants consist of mixtures of calcium phosphate phases, predominantly a crystalline calcium phosphate phase, hydroxyapatite (HA) and an amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) with varying HA/ACP ratios. Alternatives to the plasma-spray method are being explored because of some of its disadvantages. The purpose of this study was to deposit an adherent apatite coating on titanium substrate using a two-step method. First, titanium substrates were immersed in acidic solution of calcium phosphate resulting in the deposition of a monetite (CaHPO4) coating. Second, the monetite crystals were transformed to apatite by hydrolysis in NaOH solution. Composition and morphology of the initial and final coatings were identified using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Scanning Electron Microscopy, and Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS). The final coating was porous and the apatite crystals were agglomerated and followed the outline of the large monetite crystals. EDS revealed the presence of calcium and phosphorous elements on the titanium substrate after removing the coating using tensile or scratching tests. The average tensile bond of the coating was 5.2 MPa and cohesion failures were observed more frequently than adhesion failures. The coating adhesion measured using scratch test with a 200-microm-radius stylus was 13.1N. Images from the scratch tracks demonstrated that the coating materials were squashed without fracturing inside and/or at the border of the tracks until the failure point of the coating. In conclusion, this study showed the potential of a chemical deposition method for depositing a coating consisting of either monetite or apatite. This method has the advantage of producing a coating with homogenous composition on even implants of complex geometry or porosity. This method involves low temperatures and, therefore, can allow the incorporation of growth factors or biogenic molecules.
Fertility and histology after rabbit ovarian wedge resection with CO2 laser or electrocautery using posterior reconstruction with nylon or polyglactin sutures.	In an experimental study in rabbits, the CO2 laser and electrocautery were compared in performing microsurgical ovarian wedge resection; polyglactin and nylon sutures were compared for ovarian reconstruction. Histologic reaction, adhesion formation, and functional parameters (number of corpora lutea, number of pregnancies, nidation index) were evaluated 30 and 90 days postoperatively. Thirty days after surgery, the tissue inflammatory response was very similar in the four groups; fibrosis was not detected. Significant reductions (P less than 0.01) were found for the experimental (operated right ovary) vs. the control (unoperated left ovary) groups when comparing the number of corpora lutea and the number of pregnancies. No significant differences in the nidation index were demonstrated. Adhesion formation was not different between any of the experimental procedures; adhesions were not detected in the control ovaries. At 90 days, the polyglactin suture was entirely absorbed and no inflammatory reaction persisted. Minimal giant cell infiltration was found around the nylon suture. The histologic differences between the two sutures were statistically significant (P less than 0.02). No fibrosis was observed. The functional parameters did not reveal statistically significant differences between the two sutures.
Splenic abscess caused by Blastomyces dermatitidis in association with peritoneal involvement: case report and review.	We report a rare case of a patient with blastomycosis who presented with splenic abscess and peritoneal involvement. This case is unique in that no historical or radiographic evidence of antecedent pulmonary infection was apparent and therapy with orally administered ketoconazole was effective. We reviewed the English-language literature on blastomycotic splenic abscess and compared findings from other cases with findings from the current case.
Surface chemistry of enamel apatite during maturation in relation to pH: implications for protein removal and crystal growth.	Apatite crystal growth rate and morphology in mineralized tissues are considered to be controlled by surface interaction with extracellular matrix proteins. During enamel maturation where protein is finally removed from crystal surfaces to permit massive crystal growth, pH oscillates between approximately 5.8 and approximately 7.2. With this in mind, a study of enamel apatite surface chemistry in terms of local environmental pH was undertaken. Using atomic force microscopy adhesion force measurements were made between hydroxylated or carboxylated cantilever tips and maturation stage crystals between pH 2 and 10. Adhesion force increased from pH 10 to a maximum at pH 6.6 presumably due to increased hydrogen bonding due to replacement of surface cations (Na, Ca, Mg) with protons and/or protonation of phosphate per se. Below pH 6.6 adhesion force decreased and became very variable indicating that the surface had become unstable probably due to removal of fully protonated phosphate from the surface by adherence to the cantilever tip. Frictional force measurements also revealed 2-3, approximately 30 nm diameter high friction domains in bands across the crystal long axis. Their location mirrored the binding pattern of similarly sized amelogenin aggregates seen in vitro. The data suggests that specific protein binding sites may exist on crystal surfaces and may be released at lower pH by protonation which would lower cationic charge on both crystal surface and ionic charge on the protein. Instability of the crystal surface could also play a role.
Subarachnoid pressure-dependent change in syrinx size in a patient with syringomyelia associated with adhesive arachnoiditis. Case report.	The pathophysiology of syringomyelia is still not well understood. Current prevailing theories involve the assumption that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flows into the syrinx from the subarachnoid space through the perivascular space of Virchow-Robin. Reported here is the case of a patient with syringomyelia in which this course is clearly contradicted. This patient with a holocord syrinx associated with adhesive arachnoiditis was treated 3 years previously with insertion of a subarachnoid-peritoneal shunt and had recently experienced worsening myelopathy. On surgical exploration, the shunt system was functioning normally. The medium-pressure shunt valve was replaced with an adjustable valve with a higher closing pressure setting, thus increasing the CSF pressure in the subarachnoid space. Contrary to prevailing theories, this procedure markedly reduced the size of the syrinx. This case provides direct evidence that the syrinx size is inversely related to subarachnoid CSF pressure and supports the hypothesis that the pressure gradient across the spinal cord parenchyma is the force that generates syringes in syringomyelia.
Animal experiment study of healing of the sutured flexor tendon]	The purpose of the present study was to determine whether tendons contain intrinsic cells capable of repair. To accomplish this, rabbit flexor tendons were exposed microsurgically, cut through, resutured and transferred as free transplant into the knee-joint. Immobilisation of the knee-joint will cause progressive formation of adhesions permitting neovascularisation of the transplant. Both is not observed when sutured flexor tendons were put in a knee articulation with full range of joint motion. Transmission electron micrography revealed up to 8 weeks after implantation vital cells and incidences of collagen neosynthesis independently whether adhesions existed or not. Histologically intrinsic repair was confirmed in mobile transplants and mainly initiated by cells of the visceral synovial sheet which form an anatomic-surgical unity with the tendon. In conclusion the importance of the synovial fluid for the tendon nutrition is underlined by the fact that an intrinsic healing of flexor tendon is possible without formation of adhesions.
Resorbable pericardial replacement--an experimental study]	The resorbable pericardial substitute: In modern heart surgery every patient undergoing cardiac surgery will eventually require a second operation including resternotomy. To reduce the risk of damage to the heart it has been recommended to close the pericardial sac primarily. Unfortunately there is no ideal pericardial substitute yet available. This experimental study summarizes our experience with the use of Gore-Tex Surgical Membrane and Vicryl-Collagen mesh as pericardial substitutes which have been implanted orthotopically in 12 rats. After a mean follow-up of 86 days we evaluated macroscopically the pericardial adhesions, the closure of the pericardial defect and histologically the inflammatory reaction. At explanation we found that both pericardial substitutes produce little adhesion. But in rats with Vicryl-Collagen mesh as a pericardial substitute there were only a very few inflammatory cells and total closure of the pericardial defect was in 4 out of 6 rats present. These findings suggest that Vicryl-Collagen mesh seems to be a superior pericardial substitute and also allows formation of a neopericardium.
Polyelectrolyte-mediated surface interactions.	The current understanding of interactions between surfaces coated with polyelectrolytes is reviewed. Experimental data obtained with various surface force techniques are reported and compared with theoretical predictions. The majority of the studies concerned with interactions between polyelectrolyte-coated surfaces deal with polyelectrolytes adsorbed to oppositely charged surfaces, and this is also the main focus of this review. However, we also consider polyelectrolytes adsorbed to uncharged surfaces and to similarly charged surfaces, areas where theoretical predictions are available, but relevant experimental data are mostly lacking. We also devote sections to interactions between polyelectrolyte brush-layers and to interactions due to non-adsorbing polyelectrolytes. Here, a sufficient amount of both theoretical and experimental studies are reported to allow us to comment on the agreement between theory and experiments. A topic of particular interest is the presence of trapped non-equilibrium states that often is encountered in experiments, but difficult to treat theoretically.
Intraperitoneal placement of composite implants--polyester mesh coated with polyurethane in experimental study]	Polyester and polypropylene are currently the most frequently materials for repair of abdominal wall hernias. Most of the mesh materials used intraperitoneally in repair of hernias lead to considerable adhesion formation, as well as the resultant bowel obstruction and intestinal fistula formation. Some newer composite products can reduce risk of adhesion formation. The aim of this experimental study is testing properties of patch, composite structure, characterised by the association of a non-woven textile structure made from polyester multifilaments, and a fine coat of polyurethane on one side, placed intraperitoneally in rat.
Solitary paralysis of the triceps muscle due to trauma.	We report a rare solitary paralysis of the triceps muscle. The patient, an 18-year-old man who had had a work-related accident, sustained a severe contusion of the proximal posterolateral arm after being struck by a piece of lumber. This injury produced an extraordinary amount of soft-tissue swelling in the region of the trauma. After the accident it was noted that active flexion of the elbow was preserved, but active extension was absent. Three months after injury, surgical exploration of the radial nerve and its rami musculares to the three heads of the triceps muscle was undertaken. Dense adhesions were found fixing the rami musculares to the surfaces of the triceps muscle. Neurolysis of the rami musculares was performed, leading to complete recovery of the triceps muscle. The etiology of this isolated paralysis of the triceps muscle was determined to be dense adhesions compressing and compromising the function of the rami musculares to the three heads of the triceps muscle. These adhesions formed because of severe posttraumatic bleeding into the potential posterior humeral space, where the rami musculares are found.
Synthesis of cell-adhesive dextran hydrogels and macroporous scaffolds.	Dextran hydrogels have been previously investigated as drug delivery vehicles and more recently as macroporous scaffolds; however, the non-cell-adhesive nature of dextran has limited its utility for tissue engineering. To overcome this limitation, macroporous scaffolds of methacrylated dextran (Dex-MA) copolymerized with aminoethyl methacrylate (AEMA) were synthesized, thereby introducing primary amine groups for covalent immobilization of extracellular-matrix-derived peptides. The amino group density for hydrogels copolymerized with 0.5 wt% AEMA was found to be 36.1+/-0.4 micromol/cm(3) by elemental analysis. To further enhance cellular interaction, poly(Dex-MA-co-AEMA) hydrogels were modified with either CRGDS or a mixture of CDPGYIGSR and CQAASIKVAV (1:1, v/v) using sulfo-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (sulfo-SMCC). The immobilized peptide concentration was determined using amino acid analysis at: 2.6+/-0.9 micromol/cm(3) for CRGDS-derived hydrogels and 2.2+/-0.3 micromol/cm(3) plus 1.9+/-0.2 micromol/cm(3) for CDPGYIGSR plus CQAASIKVAV-derived hydrogels, respectively. Cellular interactions of primary embryonic chick dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were compared on the hydrogels. Cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth on poly(Dex-MA) increased with copolymerization of AEMA and further improved with peptide modification and significantly for CDPGYIGSR/CQAASIKVAV-derived poly(Dex-MA-co-AEMA) hydrogels. Moreover, DRGs penetrated within the first 600 microm of the scaffolds, thereby demonstrating the potential of this scaffold for guided cell and axonal regeneration in vivo.
The adhesive strength of non-spherical particles mediated by specific interactions.	The specific adhesive interaction between a non-spherical particle and a cell layer under a linear shear flow is analyzed. The effect of the characteristic particle size, expressed in terms of the volume V, and shape, expressed in terms of the aspect ratio gamma, on the adhesive strength is investigated. It is shown that for a fixed shape, there exists an optimal volume V(opt) for which the adhesive strength has a maximum. A surprisingly accurate relationship has been derived between the optimal volume V(opt) and the ratio microS/m(r) (wall shear stress to the receptors surface density) having the form V(opt)=alpha(m(r)/microS)(beta). Also, oblate particles have been shown to adhere more effectively to the biological substrate than classical spherical particles for the same volume V. As a consequence, non-spherical particles can carry a larger amount of drugs and contrast agents than classical spherical particles with the same adhesive strength, improving the therapeutic and imaging efficacy. The formulae and the procedures described in the present work can guide the optimal design of intravascularly injectable micro/nano carriers.
Equibiaxial strain stimulates fibroblastic phenotype shift in smooth muscle cells in an engineered tissue model of the aortic wall.	Many cells in the body reside in a complex three-dimensional (3D) environment stimulated by mechanical force. In vitro bioreactor systems have greatly improved our understanding of the mechanisms behind cell mechanotransduction. Current systems to impose strain in vitro are limited either by the lack of uniform strain profile or inability to strain 3D engineered tissues. In this study, we present a system capable of generating cyclic equibiaxial strain to an engineered vascular wall model. Type I collagen hydrogels populated with rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMCs) were created either as a compacting disk or constrained hemisphere. Both models were adhered to silicone membranes precoated with collagen I, fibronectin, or Cell-Tak and assayed for adhesion characteristics. The best performing model was then exposed to 48 h of 10% strain at 1Hz to simulate wall strain profiles found in vascular aneurysms, with static cultures serving as controls. The finite strain profile at the level of the membrane and the free surface of the construct was quantified using microbeads. The results indicate that the hemisphere model adhered with Cell-Tak had the most stable adhesion, followed by fibronectin and collagen I. Disk models did not adhere well under any coating condition. Uniform strain propagation was possible up to a maximum area strain of 20% with this system. RASMC responded to 10% equibiaxial strain by becoming less elongated, and immunohistochemistry suggested that stretched RASMC shifted to a more synthetic phenotype in comparison to static controls. These results suggest that equibiaxial strain may induce smooth muscle cell differentiation. We conclude that this system is effective in stimulating cells with cyclic equibiaxial strain in 3D cultures, and can be applied to a variety of biomaterial and tissue engineering applications.
Laparoscopic myomectomy.	Laparoscopic myomectomy was performed on 154 women, with minimal perioperative complications resulting. Small and single leiomyomata were managed more easily than multiple and larger tumors. Although suturing the excisional sites improved healing, it increased the incidence of adhesion formation. We conclude that laparoscopic myomectomy can be a safe and cost-effective alternative to laparotomy when performed by a skilled operative laparoscopist, but only in selected cases.
Inhibition of postsurgical adhesions in a standardized rabbit model: II. Intraperitoneal treatment with heparin.	The formation of adhesions after peritoneal trauma is thought to result from the deposition of fibrin and its subsequent organization by fibroblast ingrowth and, in some cases, neovascularization and reepithelialization. Since heparin is an effective anticoagulant, and clotting is a major contributor to postsurgical fibrin deposition, we studied the effects of heparin delivered locally into the peritoneal cavity at the site of the injury on the subsequent formation of postsurgical adhesions. A flap of parietal peritoneum (approximately 1 mm thick) was dissected from the right lateral peritoneal sidewall of New Zealand white female rabbits. The serosal surface of the adjacent small bowel was abraded with a scalpel to produce punctuate bleeding. This area between the excised parietal peritoneum and adjacent small bowel serosa was then used for evaluating the efficacy of heparin for adhesion prevention. Alzet minipumps containing phosphate-buffered saline with varying doses of heparin were sewn into the right dorsal subcutaneous space with Vicryl sutures. A polyethylene catheter tip leading from the pump into the peritoneal cavity was placed 2-3 mm over the injury test site. Within seven days after the implantation of the pumps, the rabbits were killed and the extent of adhesions determined, according to a qualitative grading system. The threshold dosage at which significantly beneficial antiadhesion properties were obtained was 1.5 x 10(-2) U/hour or 7.5 x 10(-3) U/kg/day. Effective adhesion prevention occurred with only two days of treatment beginning the day of surgery. At this dose, no postsurgical bleeding occurred. These findings suggest that local intraperitoneal administration of low-dose heparin throughout the immediate postoperative interval may result in adhesion-free healing.
The effect of amniotic fluid on intraperitoneal adhesion formation--an experimental study.	In an attempt to investigate the relative paucity of intraperitoneal adhesions after cesarean sections, we tested the effect of amniotic fluid on adhesion formation in rat model. Trauma was induced to the uterine serosa in 40 rats. Amniotic fluid was intraperitoneally instilled in 20 rats and saline in another 20 rats acting as controls. No inhibitory effect of the amniotic fluid could be demonstrated. The effect of the amniotic fluid and the saline solutions on fibroblastic proliferation was examined in vitro using fibroblastic cell cultures. No direct effect on fibroblast proliferation was found. It is concluded that it is not the direct effect of the spilled amniotic fluid that inhibits adhesion formation after the performance of cesarean sections.
The presyrinx state due to adhesive arachnoiditis: a case report]	We report a 66-year-old woman with a presyrinx state due to adhesive arachnoiditis. She had a history of subarachnoid hemorrhage one year ago. She became aware of gait disturbance and abnormal sensation at the chest 6 months ago. Neurological examination revealed weakness of the both lower extremities and sensory disturbance below the T6 level. MR images of the thoracic spine revealed swelling of the thoracic cord at the T3-4 level, with an intramedullary hyperintensity on T2 weighted images (WI) and hypointensity on T1-WI. The intramedullary hypointensity on T1-WI was less than the CSF intensity. In addition, the thoracic cord lower than T5 level was compressed by an arachnoid cyst in the spinal canal. The preoperative diagnosis was the presyrinx state due to adhesive arachnoiditis. An operation for detachment of arachnoidal adhesion and restoration of CSF flow pathway was performed. After one month from the operation, neurological findings were improved. Postoperative MR images revealed improvement of swelling of the thoracic cord and intramedullary abnormal intensity. The arachnoid cyst in the spinal canal was decreased in the size. The presyrinx state is recently recognized condition before the formation of syringomyelia and that is known to resolve with proper treatment. We wish to emphasize we could prevent a progression to syringomyelia by a proper treatment for the presyrinx state.
Soft palate mucosal adhesion as a preparation for Furlow's double-opposing Z-palatoplasty.	Furlow's double-opposing Z-palatoplasty enables both soft palate lengthening and palatal muscle reorientation, and outstanding speech results have been reported. However, Z-plasty often results in horizontal stress and requires relaxing incisions in some cases. This article presents the authors' novel two-stage Furlow double-opposing Z-palatoplasty used in 13 cleft lip-cleft palate patients.
Effect of physical properties of troglitazone crystal on the molecular interaction with PVP during heating.	This study examined the effect of physical properties of troglitazone drug substance on the molecular interaction with polyvinylpyrrolidone K30 (PVP) during preparation by a closed melting method. Milling was conducted using impact and jet mills to change the physical properties of troglitazone, such as particle size, specific surface area, surface free energy and acidic-basic parameters. Solid dispersions (SDs) prepared from milled troglitazone, irrespective of milling method, showed almost 100% dissolution when not less than 7.5% of water was added during heating. SDs prepared from unmilled troglitazone showed almost 100% dissolution when not less than 12.8% of water was added during heating. Physical mixture (PM) containing unmilled troglitazone must be heated above at least 50 degrees C higher than the glass transition temperature (T(g)) of PVP to obtain an SD showing 100% dissolution, while PMs containing milled troglitazone could be heated above only 20 degrees C higher than the T(g) of PVP to obtain an SD showing 100% dissolution. The melting points of troglitazone in PMs containing milled troglitazone, irrespective of milling method, were lower than those in PMs containing unmilled troglitazone. These results indicated that specific interaction could occur more easily during heating between milled troglitazone and PVP during preparation by a closed melting method. In addition, Fourier transform infrared study indicated that hydrogen bonding could occur between the N-H of troglitazone and the C=O of PVP.
Identification and dynamics of proteins adhering to the surface of medical silicones in vivo and in vitro.	Silicone has been used in medical practice as a paradigmatic implant material for decades despite significant detrimental side effects. Our targeted proteomics approach was aimed at identification of the proteins adsorbed to the surface of silicone because they have been characterized as key components in the onset and perpetuation of local immune reactions to silicone. The composition of the proteinacious film, the dynamics of protein deposition, and protein modifications after adsorption were analyzed both in vivo and in vitro. Differential analysis of protein deposition was performed, followed by protein identification with mass spectrometry, database matching, and Western blots. Thus far, we have identified the 30 most abundant proteins deposited on the surface of silicone, the largest known inventory of such proteins so far. Structural and extracellular matrix proteins predominated, followed by mediators of host defense, metabolism, transport, and stress related proteins. In addition, several biochemical modifications of fibronectin, vitronectin, and heat shock protein 60 were detected. Our analyses also revealed previously undetected proteins deposited on the surface of silicone. As tentative initiators and/or modulators of the response to silicone, they are therefore valuable candidates for prognosis and therapy.
Universal laws in the force-induced unraveling of biological bonds.	Universal laws in the force-induced unbinding of receptor-ligand complexes are established for a general functional dependence of the dissociation rate constant on the applied force and are detailed with the two-pathway model that describes the recently discovered biological catch bond. The relationships link the data obtained with constant and time-dependent forces in different regimes, provide common representation for the previously unrelated data sets, and, thereby, greatly facilitate analysis and interpretation of experiments. The universal laws are demonstrated with the monomeric and dimeric catch-slip bonds between P-selectins and P-selectin glycoprotein ligands-1, and the slip bond between E-selectin and sialyl Lewis;{x} antigen.
Differently charged polypeptides in the prevention of post-surgical peritoneal adhesions.	Peritoneal adhesions develop after almost all surgical interventions in the abdomen. We have developed an efficient treatment against post-surgical adhesions consisting of a combination of positively charged poly-L-lysine and negatively charged poly-L-glutamate. The aim of the present study was to further develop the concept of applying oppositely charged polypeptides in the prevention of adhesion formation, by evaluating different doses of the peptides, alterations in the way of administration, and also testing alternative components.
Effects of surface wettability and contact time on protein adhesion to biomaterial surfaces.	Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to directly measure the adhesion forces between three test proteins and low density polyethylene (LDPE) surfaces treated by glow discharge plasma to yield various levels of water wettability. The adhesion of proteins to the LDPE substrates showed a step dependence on the wettability of surfaces as measured by the water contact angle (theta). For LDPE surfaces with theta> approximately 60-65 degrees , stronger adhesion forces were observed for bovine serum albumin, fibrinogen and human FXII than for the surfaces with theta<60 degrees . Smaller adhesion forces were observed for FXII than for the other two proteins on all surfaces although trends were identical. Increasing the contact time from 0 to 50s for each protein-surface combination increased the adhesion force regardless of surface wettability. Time varying adhesion data was fit to an exponential model and free energies of protein unfolding were calculated. This data, viewed in light of previously published studies, suggests a 2-step model of protein denaturation, an early stage on the order of seconds to minutes where the outer surface of the protein interacts with the substrate and a second stage involving movement of hydrophobic amino acids from the protein core to the protein/surface interface. Impact statement: The work described in this manuscript shows a stark transition between protein adherent and protein non-adherent materials in the range of water contact angles 60-65 degrees , consistent with known changes in protein adsorption and activity. Time-dependent changes in adhesion force were used to calculate unfolding energies relating to protein-surface interactions. This analysis provides justification for a 2-step model of protein denaturation on surfaces.
Use of an air-fluid exchange system to promote graft adhesion during Descemet's stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty.	Dislocation of the graft is a well-recognized complication of Descemet's stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK). We describe a technique to promote adhesion of the graft during DSAEK using an anterior chamber air-fluid infusion and exchange for direct control of the pressure and medium used to tamponade the graft against the host stroma.
Thin unresponsive endometrium--a possible complication of surgical curettage compromising ART outcome.	Endometrial thickness is important for implantation. Little data addresses the etiology of persistently thin endometrium. We present a patient cohort in order to define common features and draw conclusions.
Optochiasmatic syndrome from adhesive arachnoiditis with coexisting hypophyseal adenoma: case report.	Adhesive arachnoiditis is an occasional finding during neurosurgical operations for pituitary adenoma, previously treated by radiation therapy. A case where an arachnoidal process was found in combination with an eosinophilic pituitary adenoma, which had never been treated by irradiation, is reported. A 44-year-old woman at the time of surgery with scarce endocrinologic symptoms had suffered visual loss from 2 episodes, 18 years apart. Analysis of her symptoms, neuro-ophthalmologic findings and neurodadiologic features suggest that her visual damage was due to an optochiasmatic arachnoiditis, rather than to the tumor itself.
First sutureless closure of a colotomy: short-term results of experimental laser anastomosis of the colon.	To assess the possibility of laser anastomosis of the colon, experimental laser closure of colotomies was performed. Transverse colotomies (average 20.7 mm) in New Zealand white rabbits (n = 20) were closed with a 1,064-nm Nd:YAG laser at a pulsating 0.5-W wave of power, using guy sutures to approximate the tissue edges. The laser energy was applied through a specially designed hand piece and hand-held 600-microns gas-cooled noncontact quartz fiber to produce a satisfactory tissue welding. Similar colotomies were closed using a single layer of interrupted sutures of 5-0 Maxon (Davis & Geck, Pearl River, NY) in a control group (n = 20). Bursting pressure and index of narrowing were recorded immediately after anastomosis and at 1, 4, and 7 days following surgery. Bursting pressure of the laser-welded closure at 1 day was significantly lower than that of the sutured controls (P less than 0.01); however, all rabbits recovered uneventfully. There was a marked decrease in adhesion formation following laser anastomosis (P less than 0.05). Conversely, one control rabbit showed functional stenosis at 4 days. Histologic study revealed an accelerated healing in the laser group. The index of narrowing was significantly higher in the laser group than in the control group (P less than 0.05). The completely water-sealed laser anastomosis reduces adhesions and is comparable to conventional suture anastomosis of the colon.
Adhesional small bowel obstruction following anti-reflux surgery in children--comparison of 232 laparoscopic and open fundoplications.	Adhesions are a major cause of morbidity following abdominal surgery. There is debate whether laparoscopic abdominal surgery results in a lower incidence of adhesional small bowel obstruction (ASBO) compared with the equivalent open procedure. The aim of this study was to study the incidence of ASBO following laparoscopic and open anti-reflux surgery.
Simonart's band and facial growth in unilateral clefts of the lip and palate.	A cephalometric analysis was carried out to see if the presence of a Simonart's band at birth was associated with a detectable difference in subsequent craniofacial form. Mixed longitudinal data from 5 through 18 years of age was analyzed for 257 individuals with complete UCLP included in the Oslo CLP Growth Archive, 80 with a Simonart's band and 177 without. No major differences were detected between individuals with or without Simonart's band, though the presence of a Simonart's band was associated with a larger cranial base angle and a slightly more favorable maxillomandibular relationship. The findings are discussed in relation to embryogenesis, primary surgery, and secondary surgery. It is recommended that cephalometric studies of UCLP involving group comparisons should avoid major imbalance with respect to the proportion of individuals with a Simonart's band at birth.
Safe primary approach using a micro-laparoscope via the posterior vaginal fornix for patients with previous upper laparotomy: a report of five cases.	In order to reduce the risk of visceral injury for patients with upper abdominal adhesions, we devised an alternative to the umbilical approach. Five patients who had undergone a previous upper abdominal laparotomy and were scheduled for gynecologic laparoscopic surgeries at our hospital were evaluated. A micro-trocar was inserted via the posterior vaginal fornix and the periumbilicus was observed using a micro-laparoscope inserted in the micro-trocar. A trocar for conventional laparoscopy was inserted into the umbilicus under micro-laparoscopic observation in the cul-de-sac to avoid visceral organ adherent to the periumbilicus. Four cases had adhesions of the transverse colon, small bowel or omentum to the upper abdomen due to previous surgery; however, we were able to accomplish laparoscopic surgery without injury to adhesive organs in all patients. The micro-laparoscopic primary approach via the posterior vaginal fornix is a safe primary approach for patients who have undergone a previous upper abdominal laparotomy.
Effects of a single application of extractum cepae on the peritendinous adhesion: an experimental study in rabbits.	Peritendinous adhesion is an important cause of poor functional outcome after flexor tendon repair. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of a single intraoperative application of extractum cepae, an extract of dietary onion, on the peritendinous adhesion, using a rabbit model of flexor tendon injury. The first, second, and third digits of the right hind paw of 18 rabbits were used for tendon operations. A standard partial division of the synovial sheath and flexor tendon was done at zone II to stimulate the adhesion formation. In the treatment group (n = 9 rabbits, 27 tendons), the flexor tendon sheath was treated with 50 mg/mL of extractum cepae which was applied locally and allowed to infiltrate for 5 minutes, the skin was sutured without suturing the sheath and the tendons. The same operation was done for the control group (n = 9 rabbits, 27 tendons) and 1 mL of normal saline solution was applied locally. Biomechanical and histologic evaluations of the specimens were done after 3 weeks. Tendons from the first toes were used for biomechanical studies. The second and third toe tendons were used for histopathologic evaluation. We have compared the peritendinous adhesions and the ultimate forces in the control and treated tendons. There were no statistically significant differences between the 2 groups with respect to the ultimate loads. Adhesion formation was absent in 1 tendon (5.5%), slight in 8 (44.4%), moderate in 6 (33.3), and severe in 3 tendons (16.7%) in the extractum cepae treated group (n = 18); while in the control group (n = 18), it was absent in 1 tendon (5.5%), slight in 1 tendon (5.5%), moderate in 3 (16.6%), and severe in 13 (72.4%) tendons. There was a significant reduction (P = 0.01) in the peritendinous adhesion in the treated group comparing to the control group. The problem of adhesion formation may be minimized using a single intraoperative application of extractum cepae.
Adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization on patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome.	The rate of adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization has been described in two selective and unselective groups of patients with PCOS. The rate of this complication in the selective group was 0 from 16 ovaries and in the unselective group (5/25). However, the rate of major adnexal adhesion in the unselective group was 1 from 25 ovaries.
Patients' awareness of postoperative adhesions: results from a multi-centre study and online survey.	To analyse and to compare how female patients are informed about adhesions and their related problems by surgeons preoperatively.
Adhesive arachnoiditis following lumbar myelography.	Late sequelae (adhesive arachnoiditis) have been reported following myelography with the oily contrast medium (Pantopaque) and with the ionic water-soluble contrast media methiodal sodium (Abrodil, Conturex, Kontrast U) meglumine iothalamate (Conray Meglumine) and meglumine iocarmate (Bis-Conray, Dimer-X). Adhesive arachnoiditis has not yet been reported after the use of the nonionic water-soluble contrast medium metrizamide (Amipaque). Thus, this is considered the contrast medium of choice for lumbar myelography. Using the recommended dose of 10 ml with an iodine concentration of 170 mg/ml for this examination, adhesive arachnoiditis is unlikely to occur. Increased osmolality of spinal fluid after injection of contrast medium is related to increased frequency of arachnoiditis.
Lumbar myelography with amipaque.	In lumbar myelography, early side effects occur in about half the patients examined with modern water-soluble contrast media. At myelography with Amipaque (metrizamide) these reactions are usually minor, and serious adverse reactions are rare. In our own series of 650 consecutive lumbar myelographies with Amipaque there were no serious adverse effects. Minor adverse reactions occurred in 56% of the patients. Transient electroencephalogram (eeg) changes were seen in 14% of the patients, with only 5 patients showing paroxysmal spike activity. Adhesive arachnoiditis following lumbar myelography occurs significantly less often with Amipaque than with any other contrast medium. The properties of Amipaque provide excellent possibilities for detailed studies of all parts of the spinal subarachnoid space, and the medium constitutes a new and interesting aid for these investigations.
Diseases of the lumbosacral portion of the peripheral nervous system (treatment and prevention)]	A critical analysis of modern literature and personal experience permits the author in a discussional aspect to speak on diagnosis formulation in patients with lesions of the sacrolumbar area of the peripheral nervous system. The paper contains detailed recommendations in relation to different forms of medicative therapy and prevention in this group of patients. The subsequent perspectives and further studies, as well as organizational questions are being discussed.
Cataract-related acute vitreomacular traction syndrome.	To report the acute and transient (within 10 days) presentation of vitreomacular traction following routine cataract surgery.
Augmenting myometrial healing after cesarean delivery: use of an adjuvant biologic graft placement in an ovine model.	We sought to reduce long-term complications after cesarean delivery by improving myometrial healing. Eight sheep (three with twins) underwent cesarean delivery. Hysterotomy sites were repaired in equal parts by suture alone or suture with a juxtaposed graft (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN). At 90 days postsurgery, scar characteristics and tensile strength testing were assessed. The mean hysterotomy closure time was on average 1 minute, 14 seconds longer for those undergoing graft placement ( P=0.36). The mean scar thickness was 3.00.4 mm for controls versus 3.81.2 mm for the intervention group ( P=0.047). Tensile strength testing did not demonstrate a significant difference between groups. Histological examination of the myometrial scar showed no significant differences in inflammatory reaction or endometrial inclusions; however, neoangiogenesis was significantly enhanced. Myometrial repair incorporating a graft increased scar thickness and neoangiogenesis. This methodology did not incite adenomyosis or enhance inflammation within the scar.
Gynecologic use of Sepraspray Adhesion Barrier for reduction of adhesion development after laparoscopic myomectomy: a pilot study.	To assess the safety and efficacy of Sepraspray Adhesion Barrier (a modified hyaluronic acid and carboxymethylcellulose powder) after laparoscopic surgery, in view of both the high efficacy of Seprafilm Adhesion Barrier in reducing postoperative adhesions after open surgical procedures and the difficulty with laparoscopic delivery.
Does metoclopramide impair anastomotic healing of the left colon of rats?	To evaluate the effects of metoclopramide on the formation of adhesion and the healing of left colonic anastomoses in rats.
Theoretical, experimental, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) studies of graft apposition and adhesion in Descemets stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK).	To investigate the effects of adhesion promoting surgical adjuncts in Descemets stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK). The effects of air-fill pressure, duration, use of venting incisions and stromal roughening on fluid dispersion, and donor adhesion strength were examined in theoretical, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and strain gauge models of DSAEK.
Adhesion formation to hemostatic agents and its reduction with a sodium hyaluronate/carboxymethylcellulose adhesion barrier.	The impact of hemostatic agents on postoperative adhesion formation has not been well studied. We hypothesized that hemostatic agents would be a significant nidus for adhesion formation and that a resorbable barrier would effectively reduce adhesions to hemostatic agents. Four commercial hemostatic agents, each composed of a different biomaterial matrix, were implanted in female Sprague-Dawley rats, and adhesion formation was examined 7 days after surgery. In separate studies, the effects of serosal trauma (via cecal abrasion), added blood, and the presence of chemically modified sodium hyaluronate/carboxymethylcellulose (HA/CMC) barrier on adhesion formation to hemostatic agents were studied. Significant adhesions formed to hemostatic agents even in the absence of traumatized tissue. When applied after cecal abrasion, the incidence of adhesions to the hemostatic agents increased. Addition of blood to this model increased adhesion formation even further, causing adhesions in every animal in the study. An HA/CMC adhesion barrier reduced adhesions to hemostatic agents in the presence of serosal trauma and maintained effectiveness even in the presence of blood. In conclusion, hemostatic agents potentiated adhesion formation at the site of application in a model without trauma. In more challenging models, their adhesiogenic contribution was overwhelmed by trauma and blood. HA/CMC adhesion barrier applied over hemostatic agents at the time of surgery provided significant protection against postoperative adhesions in these preclinical models.
Symptomatic hyponatremia and hyperglycemia complicating hysteroscopic resection of intrauterine adhesion: a case report.	Hysteroscopic surgery is a minimally invasive procedure for the treatment of intrauterine pathologies. However, it can result in fatal complications. We herein report a case of symptomatic hyponatremia and hyperglycemia during hysteroscopic resection of severe intrauterine adhesion with 5% dextrose in water as the distension medium. Because of the difficulty of the incision, the infusion pressure was 100 to 150 mmHg, and surgery was continued for 70 minutes. A total of 19 L of 5% dextrose in water was used as an irrigating fluid. Large-scale absorption of irrigating fluid (3 L) induced dilutional hyponatremia (120 mmol/L) and hyperglycemia (30 mmol/L). Initial signs were abnormal flatulence and postoperative coma. Hypertonic saline, diuretics, insulin, and liquid restriction were the prevailing treatment strategies for hyponatremia and hyperglycemia. Ionized calcium and potassium levels decreased during treatment. We emphasize the importance of prevention, recognition, and a meticulous perioperative treatment standard. Surgical teams must be vigilant in fluid deficit monitoring and serum electrolyte analysis.
Adhesion barrier reduces postoperative adhesions after cardiac surgery.	Reoperation in cardiac surgery is associated with increased risk due to surgical adhesions. Application of a bioresorbable material could theoretically reduce adhesions and allow later development of a free dissection plane for cardiac reoperation. Twenty-one patients in whom a bioresorbable hyaluronic acid-carboxymethylcellulose adhesion barrier had been applied in a preceding surgery underwent reoperations, while 23 patients underwent reoperations during the same period without a prior adhesion barrier. Blinded observers graded the tenacity of the adhesions from surgical video recordings of the reoperations. No excessive bleeding requiring wound reexploration, mediastinal infection, or other complication attributable to the adhesion barrier occurred. Multiple regression analysis showed that shorter duration of the preceding surgery, non-use of cardiopulmonary bypass in the preceding surgery, and use of the adhesion barrier were significantly associated with less tenacious surgical adhesions. The use of a bioresorbable material in cardiac surgery reduced postoperative adhesions, facilitated reoperation, and did not promote complications. The use of adhesion barrier is recommended in planned staged procedures and those in which future reoperation is likely.
Duodenum clamping trauma induces significant postoperative intraperitoneal adhesions on a rat model.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the histological and morphological changes in the first two postoperative weeks on a rat intraperitoneal adhesion model induced by duodenum clamping trauma.
Assessment of circumferential angle-closure by the iris-trabecular contact index with swept-source optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the diagnostic performance of the iris-trabecular contact (ITC) index, a measure of the degree of angle-closure, using swept-source optical coherence tomography (SSOCT, CASIA SS-1000, Tomey Corporation, Nagoya, Japan) in comparison with gonioscopy.
Safety analysis of application of medical anti-adhesion modified chitosan in cardiac surgery]	To verify the application safety of medical anti-adhesion modified chitosan (Baifeimi) in cardiac surgery.
Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction demonstrated by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the natural course of idiopathic vitreomacular traction (VMT) with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) from the vitreomacular adhesion (VMA) stage to the spontaneous resolution of VMT.
Application of tension-free hernioplasty with hernia meshes of different materials and the postoperative effects on the reproductive function of male rats.	This study aimed to compare the effects of polypropylene (PP), lightweight PP (UP) and expanded polytetrafluorethylene (e-PTFE) hernia mesh on the reproductive function of adult male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats following open tension-free hernioplasty. Forty adult SD rats were obtained and divided into five groups: A sham-operated (FO) group, an e-PTFE mesh group, a PP mesh group, the UP mesh group and a normal control (NC) group (without any surgical manipulation). Ninety days following open tension-free hernioplasty, hematoxylin and eosin staining and immunhistochemistry were used to observe the pathological changes of the testicular tissue and to compare the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF1) in the rat testis, respectively. ELISA was used to analyze the serum concentration of antisperm antibodies (AsAbs) and routine semen testing was conducted to measure the percentage of grade a+b sperm from the epididymis. More than 50% of mesh adherence to the spermatic cord was observed in the PP and UP groups, and mild or no adhesion was observed in the NC, FO and e-PTFE groups. In the UP and PP groups, marked congestion of necrotic tissue was observed in the seminiferous tubule cavity, a significant reduction in the percentage of grade a+b sperm and a significant increase in the expression levels of AsAbs and HIF-. It was concluded that the e-PTFE mesh exhibited a marginal effect on the reproductive function of rats compared with that of the PP and UP mesh and is more suitable for tension-free hernioplasty. The clinical significance of these results requires further elucidation with a multi-centered prospective study.
Reconstruction of abdominal wall defects using small intestinal submucosa coated with gelatin hydrogel incorporating basic fibroblast growth factor.	To construct a new biomaterial-small intestinal submucosa coated with gelatin hydrogel incorporating basic fibroblast growth factor, and to evaluate the new biomaterials for the reconstruction of abdominal wall defects.
Clip appendectomy.	The clip appendectomy is an alternative to the classical suture appendectomy. The use of a new polymer clip facilitates this technique. During pelvic reconstructive surgery an appendectomy may be indicated when suspected appendiceal pathology (such as endometriosis) could adversely affect the surgical outcome. Clip appendectomy can reduce the operative time without increasing morbidity.
Postoperative instillation of mitomycin C in the treatment of recurrent pterygium.	We examined retrospectively 61 eyes of 61 patients with recurrent pterygia who had been treated with excision, with or without 0.02% mitomycin C instillation, 3 to 7 years after treatment. The rates of recurrence (5% to 9%) and complications in eyes that had undergone excision and mitomycin C instillation were less than those in eyes that had had excision only. These data suggest that the postoperative instillation of 0.02% mitomycin C, twice a day for five days, may be effective and safe in the treatment of recurrent pterygium.
Nd:YAG laser therapy for infertility with a contact-type probe.	Laparoscopic Nd:YAG laser surgery for tubal adhesiolysis, hydrosalpinx and other disorders is an effective treatment for female infertility that causes relatively little tissue damage. In initial studies using contact-type probes, the 0.4-mm-diameter probe and 10 mm/sec incision speed were found to cause less tissue degeneration than did other combinations (P less than .05). Fifteen infertile women were treated at laparoscopy with a Nd:YAG laser; one of six with hydrosalpinx achieved pregnancy after salpingostomy using a contact-type probe, two of three with tubal adhesions achieved pregnancy after adhesiolysis with the Nd:YAG laser, and three of six with polycystic ovaries achieved pregnancy after wedge resection using a contact-type probe. Five of fifteen infertile women conceived after Nd:YAG laser surgery with a contact-type probe under laparoscopy. We confirmed that contact irradiation with a ceramic incising probe is capable of creating an adequate incision at low power levels and that laparoscopic Nd:YAG laser surgery for infertile women is an effective treatment.
Association of previous abdominal surgery and significant adhesions in laparoscopic sterilization patients.	Many surgeons believe that women who have undergone laparotomy are not good candidates for laparoscopic sterilization. Many of those women are admitted for minilaparotomy. However, women without previous surgery can also have adhesions. We compared the incidence of significant adhesions in women with and without histories of abdominal surgery. We also examined the outcomes in each group after 955 laparoscopic sterilizations. Two hundred sixty-three women (28%) had had previous surgery. Of them, 61 (23%) displayed significant adhesions. Of the remaining 692 patients, 19 (2.7%) had significant adhesions. There were no major complications in either group. Thus, a history of previous abdominal or pelvic procedures increased the risk of significant adhesion formation nearly tenfold. Since no major complications occurred in those women, we conclude that while such patients are at increased risk, that risk is not inordinate and does not justify the routine use of minilaparotomy.
Value of intrauterine device insertion and estrogen administration after hysteroscopic metroplasty.	Hysteroscopic metroplasty seems the treatment of choice for septate uterus. Little information is available on the possible usefulness of postoperative intrauterine device (IUD) insertion and estrogen administration in preventing fusion of a freshly cut septum and intrauterine adhesion formation. A hysteroscopic incision in a uterine septum was made in 20 women. Postoperatively an IUD was inserted in ten of them and conjugated estrogens administered for 30 days with medroxyprogesterone acetate on days 26-30 (group I); the other ten were given no other therapeutic measures (group II). On follow-up hysterography five women in group I had a normal uterine cavity, and five had a residual fundal notch greater than or equal to 1 cm. In group II four had a normal uterine cavity, and six had a residual fundal notch greater than or equal to 1 cm. No intrauterine adhesions were detected in any of the patients. IUD insertion and hormonal therapy after hysteroscopic metroplasty do not seem to be needed to prevent septal fusion.
Conservative surgical treatment of tubal pregnancy: factors affecting future fertility.	The results of conservative surgical treatment of tubal pregnancy (salpingotomy in 10 cases, partial salpingectomy and anastomosis in two cases) were compared with radical treatment in seven cases. The subsequent pregnancy rate was 55% and 71% for the conservative and radical groups, respectively. There were no recurrent tubal pregnancies in either group. Prior presence of pelvic adhesions did not have an effect on fertility in these patients. The rate of multiparity was significantly higher in patients who became pregnant after the surgery than those patients who did not become pregnant.
Early second-look laparoscopy following surgical sterility interventions with the CO2 laser]	10 (48%) bilateral, 5 (24%) unilateral tubostomies, 1 (5%) unilateral and 1 (5%) bilateral fimbrioplastic were performed in 21 sterility patients. 21 female sterility patients underwent short-interval second-look-laparoscopy 8 days after reconstructive surgery (salpingostomy-10 bilateral/5 unilateral, fimbrioplasty-1 bilateral/1 unilateral, adhaesiolysis--16 bilateral/3 uni-lateral). The occurrence of postoperative adhesions was judged by the use of an adhesions-score. Compared to fertility surgery the initial median adhesion-score significantly decreased (p less than 0.0003--Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test). A further reduction of the median adhesions-score could be achieved by short-interval-second-look-laparoscopy (p less than 0.0001). Within an observation time of 11 +/- 3.8 months one (5%) ectopic and 4 intrauterine pregnancies (19%) were found.
Second-look laparoscopy--results and pregnancy rate in patients with a state of laparoscopically assessed acute adnexitis]	A report is given on the findings of second-look-laparoscopy in 229 patients with condition after laparoscopically ascertained and classified inflammations of the adnexes which were treated on the basis of uniform criteria. We also want to report about the pregnancy rate dependent upon the degree of severity of the inflammation in 121 patients. It could be proved with absolute certainty that there was a dependence of the frequency of pathologic changes of the tubes with negative chromopertubation on the degree of severity of the preceding illness and also on the kind of the causative organisms. The most frequent pathologic findings came up after advanced fibrinous-suppurative inflammations as well as after gonorrhoic inflammations of the adnexes, the latter not depending on the degree of severity. The pregnancy rate, 1-5 years after treated salpingitis, for patients having the wish to deliver a child, came to 72.5% after serous salpingitis, 72.2% after operation of the adnex on one side and 59.1% after fibrinous-suppurative salpingitis. In connection with the demand for general laparoscopic diagnostics of the inflammable illnesses of the adnexes it is important to point to the necessity of early registration and treatment as well as to the cultural diagnostics of gonorrhoea. In the case of abscesses of the adnexes on one side and wish to deliver a child immediate operation is recommended.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Incidence of postoperative adhesions following use of various methods of coagulation. An animal experiment study]	In 5 groups of 20 rats each, equal areas of the uterus horns and of the corresponding peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall were coagulated resp. vaporized. To achieve this endocoagulation, mono- and bipolar high frequency current, and CO2- and Neodym-YAG-lasers were used. After 2 resp. 4 weeks, no intraabdominal adhesions were found in two animals after endocoagulation and in one animal each after coagulation with bipolar high frequency current and with CO2-laser. The lowest adhesion rates were seen after endocoagulation and coagulation with bipolar high frequency current. After application of the YAG-laser, to the uterus horns adhesions were present in 100%, applying the YAG-laser to the anterior abdominal wall for a short time there were produced few adhesions. After coagulation resp. vaporization of equal areas of the anterior abdominal wall, significantly more adhesions were found after CO2-laser-application, compared to all other techniques (p less than 0.01). Adhesions to the abdominal wall were significantly less frequent than adhesions to the tubes (p less than 0.01) with all techniques except with the CO2-laser.
Animal experiments on the prevention of peritoneal adhesions (author's transl)]	Several possibilities for the prevention of adhesions were checked in animal experiments. In rats adhesions were produced by a standardized operative procedure. For the prevention of adhesions an artificial ascites with normal saline solution or Dextran was tried. To maintain ascites an intraperitoneal catheter was left in place for the first three post-operative days and refilled. The proteolytic effect of Chymotrypsin, the proteinase inhibitor Trasylol and of Glucocorticoids was investigated. All three drugs showed a definite therapeutic effect. In 45-50% of the rats adhesions were prevented. A combination of Trasylol, Glucocorticoids and Dextran prevented adhesions in 65% of the animals. When the ascites was maintained for four days 80% of the animals remained free of adhesions.
Therapeutic percutaneous puncture and drainage of postoperative space-occupying lesions using permanent ultrasound and roentgen control]	Ultrasonically guided, percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy allows final histological and/or cytological diagnosis in patients with benign or malignant space-occupying growths even of small size. Therapeutic puncture and drainage of postoperative abdominal or retroperitoneal growths (haematoma, seroma, lymph cyst, abscess) however, requires 1.) dilatation of the percutaneously established puncture channel and 2.) continuous vacuum aspiration over a period of several days or weeks. We report on three therapeutic punctures in two patients with retroperitoneal lymph cysts following abdominal radical hysterectomy with lymphonodectomy and one patient with abscess formation following nephrectomy. The technique employed was as used in percutaneous nephrostomy. Under local anaesthesia and permanent ultrasound guidance the lesion is punctured with a 1.3 mm hollow puncture needle of three parts (Angiomed) and after aspiration of fluid a 0.9 mm wire guide with a curved, soft tap was inserted through the puncture needle in the lesion. The puncture channel is then dilated under x-ray visualisation with a Teflon-coated fasciadilatator (Cook) to Charr. 16 (20). Finally either a polyvinyl catheter with two lateral apertures (Cook) or a double-barrelled Shirley Drain is inserted and fixed to the skin with a stitch. For diversion a closed system is used. Over a period of one to two weeks 50 to 200 millilitres of secretion are drained off per day in decreasing quantity. The patients returned to normal temperature and recovered entirely. The advantage of our method is the avoidance of dangerous and difficult secondary surgery.
Distal tuboplasty: is it appropriate?	We retrospectively analyzed the results of distal tuboplasty (fimbrioplasty, salpingostomy, and salpingoneostomy) in 64 patients who had 70 operations from 1974 to 1984. The postoperative pregnancy rate was 19%, and the ectopic pregnancy rate 21%. It is difficult to compare results obtained in this study with those reported in previous studies. The average term pregnancy rate for those studies was 21%, with an ectopic pregnancy rate of 5.7%. The appropriateness of distal tuboplasty has been questioned because of the low rate of success of the procedure and the increasing rate of success of in vitro fertilization (IVF). Because of the current economic burden and technical difficulties associated with IVF, distal tuboplasty appears to remain an appropriate operation.
Informativeness of different methods of visual stimulation in optochiasmatic arachnoiditis]	A comparative assessment of the informative value of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) has demonstrated that registration of VEPs in response to a diffuse flash of light makes it possible to objectively evaluate the status of the visual analyzer and to trace the course of the development and regression of the pathological process. In a long-term period of the recovery of the visual function in order to elucidate fine mechanisms of visual perception and to achieve objective optical correction of visual acuity, it is advisable to use VEPs in response to a structural stimulus.
Treatment of chronic cerebral leptomeningitis (arachnoiditis)]	Proceeding from the literature data on a positive effect of a combination of dimexide and corticosteroids on scar tissue, the authors treated 42 patients with chronic cerebral leptomeningitides by transcerebral dimexide + hydrocortisone "superelectrophoresis". 10 mg of hydrocortisone and 10 mg of 50% solution of dimexide were required for one session. The course consisted of ten sessions. Comparison with a control group composed of patients receiving the conventional treatment showed a statistically significant increase in the number of patients discharged with improvement and considerable improvement. The treatment was associated with no side effects.
Subacute focal endometritis. Association with cervical colonization with ureaplasma urealyticum, pelvic pathology and endometrial maturation.	Subacute focal endometritis (SFE) has been associated with cervical Ureaplasma urealyticum colonization and is considered a significant indicator of pelvic adhesions or endometriosis. A retrospective analysis was performed comparing cervical isolation rates, endometrial maturation patterns and laparoscopic findings in 64 patients with SFE and in a control group of 70 unselected patients with no histologic evidence of SFE at endometrial biopsy. The data suggest that although the prevalence of pelvic damage of various types is high, SFE cannot be used as a reliable marker for pelvic adhesions or endometriosis; that SFE does not interfere with normal endometrial maturation; and that SFE is not invariably associated with cervical U urealyticum but may represent resolving infection. It is also possible that SFE represents endometrial autoimmunity either following mycoplasma infection or arising spontaneously.
Splenic rupture at colonoscopy.	We report splenic rupture a few hours after a colonoscopy. Even though the patient had no previous history of splenic injury or symptoms attributable to splenocolonic adhesions, exploration revealed adhesions between the spleen and the colon at the level of the splenic flexure. Pathological examination revealed capsular thickening and fibrosis. Splenocolonic adhesions may lead to potentially lethal rupture of the spleen. A careful history prior to endoscopy should rule out pathological conditions that may lead to formation of adhesions between the spleen and the colon. In addition, the endoscopist should consider splenic rupture after colonoscopy in the patient who develops abdominal pain and acute anemia without evidence of intestinal perforation or external bleeding.
Transection of the retrohepatic vena cava in a case of total situs inversus following blunt trauma.	Total transection of the retrohepatic inferior vena cava from blunt trauma is a rare and usually fatal injury. Such an injury in a patient with total situs inversus and previous surgical correction of great vessel transposition is described. A possible mechanism for the injury is suggested.
The effect of cauterization of the rabbit ovary on adhesion formation.	A new treatment modality that involves laparoscopic electrocautery of the ovary has been described as an alternative to ovarian wedge resection. The authors investigated the effect of multiple cautery of the rabbit ovary on adhesion formation. Twenty animals were studied after being divided into four groups of five animals each. Group 1 animals underwent a control operation that involved opening and closing of the peritoneum only. All other animals underwent cautery of the right ovary, with the left ovary used as a control. Group 2 animals had no intraperitoneal substance instilled. Group 3 animals had 2.5 ml/kg of sterile normal saline instilled intraperitoneally. Group 4 animals had 2.5 ml/kg of 32% dextran 70 instilled intraperitoneally. Two weeks later, adhesions were evaluated with a macroscopic and a microscopic scoring system. Cautery of the ovaries was associated with the formation of a significant amount of adhesions. The mean macroscopic adhesion score for a cauterized ovary was 2.73 +/- 0.38 and for the control ovary was 0.00 +/- 0.00 (P less than 0.01). According to the microscopic scoring system, the adhesion scores were 1.86 +/- 0.16 and 1.20 +/- 0.28, respectively (P less than 0.05). The 32% dextran 70 group had the lowest mean macroscopic adhesion score, but this was not statistically significant.
Malignant pleural effusions.	Pleural effusions are common in cancer patients, developing either from the malignant condition or from unrelated causes, such as congestive heart failure, pulmonary infarction, or infection. Diagnosis of malignant pleural effusion rests on demonstration of the presence of malignant cells in the pleural fluid or pleural biopsy specimen. Treatment is usually aimed at relief of symptoms rather than at the underlying malignancy. Specific therapeutic measures include thoracentesis, chest tube drainage, pleurodesis with chemicals or biologic agents, radiation and systemic chemotherapy, surgical pleurodesis, and pleuroperitoneal shunt. These should be supplemented by ancillary measures to maintain fluid and nutritional balance and prevent complications.
Induction of intrauterine adhesions in experimental animals and in women.	Intrauterine adhesions were induced in rats, rabbits and monkeys with fibroblast carrying polyvinyl sponges. Fertility studies have shown that these adhesions may serve as a method of contraception. Following successful studies in the animals, induction of intrauterine adhesions by the same technique was clinically applied in four women in order to reduce excessive uterine bleeding in benign uterine lesions.
Perihepatitis and chlamydial salpingitis.	In 4 patients with acute salpingitis (3 of whom also had perihepatitis) the diagnoses were verified by laparoscopy or laparotomy and all 4 had cultural and serological evidence of current infection with Chlamydia trachomatis, whereas none had signs of gonococcal infection. 3 of the 4 had symptoms in the right upper abdomen, but the liver surface showed signs of perihepatitis in only 2. In the 4th patient, perihepatitis was diagnosed, although she denied symptoms in the hepatic region. Thus symptoms from the right upper abdomen in a young woman may be an indirect sign of a genital infection.
The effect of intravenous aprotinin (Trasylol) on intraperitoneal adhesion formation in the rat.	A randomized controlled trial to assess the effect of intravenous Trasylol on postoperative intraperitoneal adhesion formation has been performed in rats. Before undergoing a standard left colonic resection, animals received i.v. Trasylol 10 000 KIU. This dose was repeated 8-hourly for 3 days postoperatively. Control animals received saline placebo. The mean percentage circumference of the anastomosis covered with adhesions in the Trasylol group animals was 20.86 +/- 6.08 compared with 45.24 +/- 5.97 in the control group (P less than 0.01). Significantly more animals treated with Trasylol were completely free of adhesions than those receiving saline. Bursting pressures did not differ between the two groups. Intravenous Trasylol clearly inhibits intraperitoneal adhesion formation in this model.
Laparoscopy procedures to promote fertility ovariolysis and salpingolysis. Results of 93 selected cases.	In 93 selected infertile patients removal of periadnexal adhesions was attempted by laparoscopic procedure. Adhesiolysis was assessed according to Palmer's classification reviewed in Madrid (July 1980). Success was defined in terms of pregnancies, therefore patients with tubal obstruction were excluded. The rate of intra-uterine pregnancies was high (51,6%) and appeared to correlate with the quality of adhesiolysis. The present data strongly suggest that laparoscopic procedures represent a satisfactory method of adhesiolysis and emphasize the critical importance of case selection.
Improvement of gliding function of flexor tendons by topically applied enriched collagen solution.	The long flexor tendons of the second, third and fourth toes of 94 chickens were cut and sutured. After operation the birds were divided into three groups. To reduce peritendinous adhesions, an aqueous solution of beta-aminopropionitrile (BAPN) was added to a solution of enriched native collagen (ECS) and applied to the cut tendons of one group; untreated controls and controls treated with collagen solution alone comprised the other groups. Chickens from each group were killed one, two, three, four and five weeks after operation. The results were evaluated both biomechanically and biochemically. It was found that the collagen solution alone had the same effect as the treatment with BAPN. It is suggested that the exogenous collagen present at the site of injury binds the collagenase inhibitor released by tendon cells, thus providing enough active collagenase to control the formation of fibrous adhesions. The inefficiency of BAPN in these experiments might have been due to either inadequate dosage or wrong timing, or both.
Adherence of Bacteroides fragilis in vivo.	The ability of the encapsulated species Bacteroides fragilis to adhere to rat peritoneal mesothelium was compared to the adherence of unecapsulated strains of Bacteroides (B. distasonis, B. vulgatus, B. thetaiotaomicron, B. ovatus, and B. "other"). Adherence was assayed by attaching plexiglas plates containing 8-mm holes to the peritoneal mesothelium of anesthetized rats. Cell suspension (0.25 ml) was incubated in each well, after which the suspension was aspirated, and a 4-mm punch biopsy was removed. Viable organisms adhering to the biopsy specimen were enumerated by plate count following washing of the biopsy tissue. It was found that B. fragilis adhered significantly better to mesothelial tissue (10(3.00) colony-forming units per biopsy) than unencapsulated species of Bacteroides (10(1.07) colony-forming units per biopsy). This effect was not due to differential oxygen sensitivity of the various inocula. Immunization of rats with capsular polysaccharide did not demonstrate decrease in the adherence of B. fragilis; however, preincubation of the mesothelium with purified capsular polysaccharide resulted in a substantial reduction in adherence. These results indicate that B. fragilis adheres to rat peritoneal mesothelium better than unencapsulated species and suggests that the capsular polysaccharide of B. fragilis plays some role in this increased adherence.
Postinflammatory ossicular fixation in tympanoplasty.	Postinflammatory ossicular fixation in chronic ear surgery is a common problem faced by the otologic surgeon. This thesis presents a review of the evolution of the three forms of postinflammatory ossicular fixation. The surgical techniques used to correct ossicular fixation are discussed. A detailed evaluation of 311 patients diagnosed as having clinical tympanosclerosis is presented.
Microscopic lysis of lumbar adhesive arachnoiditis.	The results of a long-term study of 28 patients operated on for adhesive lumbar arachnoiditis are presented. The technique involved was microscopic lysis of adhesions. The first case of surgery was performed in 1966 and the last, in 1970, with followup through 1976. Numerous observations are made regarding the clinical picture and the appearance of arachnoiditis at the time of surgery. Some conclusions are drawn regarding the causes of this condition with some emphasis on the role of Pantopaque, multiple surgeries, and other trauma. The conclusion is that surgical attack on arachnoiditis is a straightforward surgical exercise that, when carried out with appropriate caution, produces no further neurologic deficits and some short-term improvement. However, the authors feel that this procedure should not be performed at the present time because there does not appear to be a method for preventing the reaccumulation of the scar tissue and subsequent recurrence of the symptoms.
Lumbar adhesive arachnoiditis. Etiologic and pathologic aspects.	The etiologic factors and pathologic findings in 38 patients with lumbar arachnoiditis are presented. Lumbar spine surgery and the injection of contrast materials prior to the diagnosis of this condition are considered the most important factors in its genesis. In this series, there was microscopic evidence of arachnoiditis ossificans in 3 patients and arachnoiditis calcificans in 1 patient.
Cauda equina arachnoiditis. A correlative clinical and roentgenologic study.	A series of 93 consecutive patients whose myelograms were reported as showing arachnoiditis were studied, and correlations between the radiographic appearance and the clinical and surgical findings were tabulated. All but 1 patient had had either lumbar disc surgery and/or Pantopaque myelography. The study led to a classification of such roentgenogram changes which revealed that the majority of patients studied did not have the usual adhesive arachnoiditis, but the picture they projected was more commonly due to spinal stenosis, extraarachnoid dye injection, extradural scar, etc. Only 1 patient of the 93 presented the classic severely disabling paraparesis, intractable pain, and loss of bowel and bladder functions commonly ascribed to adhesive arachnoiditis. The presence of such myelographic changes need not deter necessary surgery for coexisting disc pathology, nerve root entrapment, or spinal stenosis. In only a small percentage of these patients could the symptoms be attributed to the arachnoiditis changes seen in the myelogram.
Open laparoscopy with conventional instrumentation.	Forty women who had undergone previous abdominal surgical procedures were evaluated by open laparoscopy with a simple technique that required no special instrumentation. Gynecologic problems included infertility, suspected endometriosis and/or pelvic adhesions, ovarian cysts, and second-look laparoscopy after treatment for ovarian cancer. The technique was evaluated in regard to ease of performance in patients with various abdominal incisions. Conventional instrumentation was used. No significant side effects were experienced and anesthesia time was prolonged by no more than 10 to 20 minutes in most cases. Significant subincisional adhesions were found in 35% of patients. It is suggested that open laparoscopy in patients who have had previous abdominal surgery deserves reevaluation.
Prevention of peritoneal adhesions by the combined use of spongostan and 32% dextran 70: an experimental study in pigs.	Twenty female pigs underwent laparotomy during which transection of both uterine horns and wedge resection of both ovaries were performed with a standard technique. Following the injuries a mixture of Spongostan and 32% dextran 70 was applied only to the lesions on the right side. Three weeks after surgery another laparotomy was performed and the degree of adhesion formation was recorded. A marked reduction in degree and extent of adhesions was observed on the treated side as compared with the control side. The possible advantages of a compound that can be applied locally and has hemostatic properties as well are discussed.
Diagnosis and management of intrauterine adhesions by microhysteroscopy.	The Authors report their experience in the diagnosis and management of intrauterine adhesions in a group of 23 patients using the microhysteroscope. This new model of hysteroscope makes it possible to diagnose clinically suspected cases and to perform lysis of the adhesions in the out-patient department, without cervical dilatation and anesthesia. The technical features of the microhysteroscope made a double evaluation of adhesions possible: a) the macroscopic classification of the site and extension of the synechiae and b) their microscopic in vivo observation to identify the less vascularized areas and to perform adhesiolysis under direct visual control. Monthly hysteroscopic examinations were performed in order to follow the results of therapy and to remove residual or newly formed adhesions. In the authors' experience the microhysteroscope may be successfully used in the early diagnosis and subsequent best management of intrauterine adhesions in patients with previous medical history of curettage in a recent pregnant uterus.
A preliminary assessment of Na-hyaluronate injection into "no man's land" for primary flexor tendon repair.	A special fraction of Na-hyaluronate (Healon) was used for enhancement of repair of flexor tendon lacerations in "No Man's Land" to assess its role in preventing adhesion formation. The profundus tendons of the third and fourth fingers in owl monkeys were lacerated and repaired, and the superficialis tendons were resected. Prior to closure, saline solution or Healon paste was applied around the tendon. The fingers were immobilized for 4-5 weeks with the proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) at 90 degrees of flexion. Following immobilization, the range of motion of the PIP joint was tested in a standard fashion for a period of 3 months. The Healon paste did not interfere with the healing process of the tendon. The fingers treated with Healon showed a significantly less flexion deformity (p less than 0.01) than the saline controls. Healon paste may be a useful adjunct in tendon surgery.
Why do surgical packs cause peritoneal adhesions?	Our experiments in the Porton rat have shown that the foreign debris from surgical sponges left in the peritoneal cavity after use is not the cause of peritoneal adhesions. Instead, the abrasive effect of introducing the sponge produces mesothelial trauma. This is the stimulus for an inflammatory response, followed by adherence of adjacent involved peritoneal surfaces. Adhesions formation did not occur between the abraded peritoneal surfaces of mobile intraabdominal viscera, which suggests that intestinal motility in the early postoperative period is important in the prevention of adhesions.
Oral adhesions associated with cleft lip and palate and lip fistulae.	Three cases of congenital strand-like adhesions between the upper and lower gum pads associated with cleft lip and palate and lower lip fistulae are reported. A consideration of the literature would suggest that this may represent an autosomal dominant trait with variable penetrance and expressivity though a positive family history was found in only one case. The adhesions may have arisen by persistence of the oropharyngeal membrane or anomalous fusion of adjacent epithelial surfaces, the latter seeming rather more likely in the present series. The clinical implications are discussed.
A modified tongue-lip adhesion for Pierre Robin anomalad.	A modified tongue-lip adhesion for Pierre Robin anomalad, based on the work of Douglas (1946), Routledge (1960) and Randall (1977) is described. Modifications include placement of the incision and stripping of the geniglossus muscles from the mandible. Conservative non-operative management is successful for most patients, but an adequate surgical adhesion avoids tracheostomy when more active treatment is needed.
Prevention of nerve root adhesions after laminectomy.	In repeat lumbar surgery for failure of the original operation to provide lasting relief, well-organized fibrous tissue is often noted binding together the dura, nerve roots, and erector spinae muscles. Lumbar laminectomy was carried out in 46 dogs and seven groups of animals studied. Gelfoam failed to prevent fibrosis. Free fat grafts prevented fibrosis whether the graft was placed at the laminectomy site or around the nerve roots. Vascularization of the grafts was demonstrated by injection of India ink before sacrifice. Ligamentum nuchae, which is similar to ligamentum flavum in its high elastic content, was also effective in preventing scar formation. The operative biopsy findings at reexploration in four patients who had free fat grafts following laminectomy are presented.
Some pathological conditions of the reproductive tract of the ewe.	The reproductive tracts of 276 ewes from six breeds or crosses were examined. The incidence of pathological conditions was 8.7 per cent. The largest group of abnormalities was extensive abdominal adhesions. The first case of ovarian cystadenoma in sheep is reported.
Automated vitrectomy in eyes with vitreocorneal touch associated with corneal dysfunction.	Of the results evaluated in 17 patients who had vitrectomy for aphakic vitreocorneal touch associated with corneal edema, nine patients had satisfactory results. Factors associated with a favorable outcome were as follows: (1) early vitrectomy; (2) previtrectomy visual acuity better than 6/120 (20/400); (3) uncomplicated cataract operation and postoperative course, and (4) broken rather than intact hyaloid face. Postoperative cystoid macular edema contributed to decreased visual acuity in eight of 12 patients.
Resection of the abdominal aorta for recurrent colon cancers. 18 year survival.	(1) An 18 year survival after resection of a recurrent colon cancer involving the aortic bifurcation is reported. (2) Involvement of major intraabdominal vessels by malignant tumors should not categorically be considered a contraindication to curative resection. (3) After extended radical resections for colonic cancer, 40 to 100 percent of the adhesions will contain malignant cells. Curative en bloc resection of these primary tumors together with their organs and tissues, particularly if the adhesions are dense, can achieve 5 year survival in 34 percent of cases. (4) Colonic tumors recur locally in 4 to 28 percent of patients who are resected for cure; recurrence at the primary site may be the sole evidence of recurrent disease in 28 to 60 percent of these cases. These patients may be candidates for exploratory laparotomy and 30 to 40 percent may be amenable to reresection for cure with an anticipated 5 year survival rate of 23 percent.
Intestinal obstruction caused by primary adhesions due to Familial Mediterranean Fever.	Repeated acute abdominal episodes of Familial Mediterranean Fever can lead to peritoneal bands. These may cause mechanical obstruction of the bowel, requiring surgical intervention. Three such cases are reported, including one fatality.
Diagnostic difficulties in inflammatory-obliterative processes in the posterior cranial fossa in children]	The authors discuss diagnostic difficulties in 3 cases of inflammatory-obliterative processes in the posterior cranial fossa in children. Clinical and other investigations suggested presence of expansive lesions. The diagnosis was established only during the operation.
The surgical management of macular pucker in rhegmatogenous retinal detachment.	Fourteen patients underwent surgery for macular pucker. The maximal follow-up is 26 months, the minimum is 3 months, and the average is 10 months. The essential feature of the operation is mechanical separation of the posterior cortical vitreous from the retinal surface. A fine wrinkling retinopathy usually remains. Visual recovery, although usually incomplete, is significant and has been maintained throughout the entire period of observation.
An intestinal fistula in a 3-year-old child caused by the ingestion of magnets: report of a case.	We describe herein the case of a 3-year-old child in whom a jejunoileal fistula was caused by the ingestion of magnets. This case report demonstrates that if more than one magnet is found as a foreign body in the intestine, they should not be left untreated even if there are no sharp edges and, it seems they could be evacuated spontaneously. This recommendation is made because the magnets will attract each other and hold the intestinal walls between them, causing necrosis and resulting in intestinal perforation or a fistula.
Flexor tendon healing and adhesion formation after Sterispon wrapping: a study in the rabbit.	The influence of Sterispon (Allen & Hanbury) wrapping on the healing of the rabbit flexor digitorum profundus tendon sutured within the digital sheath was studied. Control tendons healed in 2 weeks in association with thick adhesions. The wrapped tendons were surrounded with fewer adhesions, but 50% separated. Healing was delayed until adhesions reached the suture site. A sheath of a single layer of mesothelial cells formed on the surface of the Sterispon opposite the tendon and this markedly reduced adhesions at the suture site. The cellular reaction was bland. Sterispon wrapping had a similar effect on tendon healing and adhesion formation as wrapping with other non-absorbable substances and the results support the theory that healing in the digital sheath is necessarily mediated through the formation of adhesions. Sterispon wrapping has been helpful after tenolysis operations.
The possibility of performing reconstructive-restorative operations in patients with a permanent ileostomy]	An analysis of 69 patients after colectomy with abdomino-anal resection of the rectum for diffuse polyposis was made for the estimation of possibilities to carry out reconstructive-restorative operations with the creation of pelvic small intestine reservoirs. The indications and contraindications for performing such reconstructive operations, main criteria were determined which allowed to estimate the possibility of performing surgical interventions on patients with permanent ileostomy. The significance of each of the criteria is shown for solution of the question of possible performing reconstructive-restorative operations with the formation of pelvic intestinal reservoirs after the previously performed resection of the colon.
Intraperitoneal perfusion of compound injection of salvia miltiorrhiza with dachengqi decoction in treating adhesive intestinal obstruction]	47 cases of adhesive intestinal obstruction after decompression operation were treated with intraperitoneal perfusion of compound injection of Salvia Miltiorrhizam intraperitoneally before closing the abdominal cavity and Dachengqi decoction oral given post-operatively. Follow up study for 2-9 years showed the effective rate was 100% except one case died of other unrelevant disease. Another 38 cases of the same disease and same operation procedure were selected as the control group, which were given antibiotics intraperitoneally before closing the abdominal cavity. The effective rate was 73.38%. The result in the therapeutic group was significantly better than that in the control group (P < 0.01).
Is peritoneal closure necessary?	Closure of peritoneal defects after laparotomy has long been considered a standard surgical procedure. In 1895 Smith wrote that "Sinister results which we seek to avoid, arise when we leave raw surfaces to which intestines may adhere and cause obstruction. To cover such a surface by peritoneum would, according to published statistics, save nearly 2 percent of the deaths after abdominal operation." (1). The purpose of this review is to reexamine the necessity of peritoneal closure in current medical practice. The argument for peritoneal closure includes the following: 1) restoration of anatomy and approximation of tissues for healing, 2) reestablish the peritoneal barrier to reduce the risk of infection, 3) reduce the risk of wound herniation or dehiscence, and 4) minimize adhesion formation. The argument against peritoneal closure involves the following: 1) nonclosure has not been observed to be detrimental, 2) without reapproximation the peritoneum heals rapidly, 3) suture presence and additional tissue handling may contribute to adhesion formation and 4) reduced surgical intervention and operating time is beneficial to the patient. This review will individually discuss these arguments and summarize their relative support.
An approach to the hepatic hilus with marked fibrosis: a surgical technique for reconstruction of the bile duct with a benign stricture.	It is very difficult to approach the hepatic hilus safely in patients with common and/or hepatic bile duct strictures in which normal tissue has been replaced by scarred tissue with firm fibrous adhesions. In this report, we describe how eight patients with benign strictures of the bile duct underwent an operation which involved dividing the superior mesenteric and portal veins from the lower margin of the pancreas in a dorsal direction using a finger in a tunneling technique. The common bile duct, which was buried in scar tissue, was then explored, while the common and/or proper hepatic arteries in the hepatoduodenal ligament were confirmed, after transsection at the superior margin of the pancreas. Biliary reconstruction was successfully performed after resection of the constricted bile duct in all the patients, none of whom have experienced recurrence from 6 months to 5 years after the operation.
Does laparoscopy have a limited role in diagnosis of fibroadhesive tuberculous peritonitis?	The information on the limitations of laparoscopy (LP), particularly in the diagnosis of fibroadhesive form of tuberculous peritonitis (TP) is insufficient. Some reports suggested the risk and insufficient information obtained from LP in the diagnosis of fibroadhesive tuberculous peritonitis (FTP). The objectives of this study were to determine the usefulness and limitations of LP in the diagnosis of FTP and ascitic TP. The clinical and laparoscopic features of 64 patients with TP were analyzed. FTP was observed in 44 patients (68.8%) comprising 14 cases with small tubercles with thin fibrous adhesions in the peritoneum, 28 cases with large tubercles or confluent nodules with severe adhesions of intestinal loops omentum, and abdominal walls, and 2 cases with caseous material in the abdominal cavity with multiple peritoneal adhesions. Ascitic TP with multiple white nodules were found in 20 patients (31.2%). Laparoscopic diagnosis was confirmed by intralaparoscopic biopsies in all patients. No complications or limitations were found. Our study revealed that laparoscopy was a safe, accurate, and uncomplicated method for diagnosis of FTP and ascitic TP. It gave sufficient information, so diagnostic laparotomy was unnecessary.
Immunotherapy in patients undergoing functional endoscopic sinus surgery.	A total of 283 consecutive patients with chronic sinusitis underwent functional endoscopic sinus surgery. There were 72 allergic patients and 211 nonallergic patients. Data were collected on the effect of immunotherapy on middle meatotomy patency, synechiae formation, and recurrent polyps in allergic patients. Data supported the following conclusions: (1) Immunotherapy given either before or after surgery does not statistically influence middle meatotomy patency, synechiae formation, or recurrence of polyps after functional endoscopic sinus surgery. However, the data do suggest, for all three outcome parameters, that allergic patients who undergo immunotherapy do better than those who do not undergo immunotherapy and, with the exception of recurrent polyps, do as well as nonallergic patients. (2) The prevalence of preoperative polyps is the same for allergic and nonallergic patients in this study, but polyp recurrence is higher in allergic patients. (3) Approximately 40% of allergic patients who began preoperative immunotherapy stopped immunotherapy after surgery because their allergic symptoms resolved or were minimal. A comment regarding this observation is provided.
Persistent oral contrast agent lining the intestine in severe mucosal disease: elucidation of radiographic appearance.	Plain radiographs and computed tomographic scans obtained in a severely neutropenic patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and cytomegalovirus-associated enterocolitis revealed a pattern of prolonged mucosal adherence of oral contrast agent to the small bowel. This pattern was seen as long as 16 weeks after administration of contrast agent and has been seen previously only in patients who have received bone marrow transplants. Two sets of intestinal biopsy specimens contained crystals that coated denuded mucosa at the site of ulceration and later were trapped within the lamina propria. Electron diffraction and energy-dispersive radiographic analysis showed that these crystals were composed of barium sulfate.
Laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy utilising the contact-tip Nd: YAG laser: a review of 67 cases.	The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy utilising the contact-tip Nd:YAG (Neodymium: Yttrium-Aluminum-Garnet) laser (Surgical Laser Technologies, Oaks, PA). Postoperative activity levels, operative times, blood loss, pain medication use, length of hospital stay, and complications of laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy were determined. Sixty-seven women with extensive disease including endometriosis, adenomyosis, adhesions, and multiple fibroids underwent laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). The procedures were performed utilising the contact-tip Nd:YAG laser and a laparoscopic linear stapling device. All patients were operated on for a primary diagnosis of pelvic pain and would have required an abdominal approach for surgery due to extensive adhesions, fibroids, or endometriosis. Sixty-eight cases of laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy were attempted. In 67 of these cases, the procedure was completed as planned. One case required conversion to abdominal hysterectomy due to extensive adhesions. Average hospital stay after surgery was 2.7 days with a minimum stay of less than one day. The average operating time for the LAVH was 149 minutes with an estimated blood loss of 220 mL and a haemoglobin drop from surgery to day 1 after surgery of 1.9 g. The complication rate was 11.9% with all of the complications occurring in the first 46 cases. By day 14 after surgery, patients reported their activity level at 8.8 on a scale of 1 to 10 with 10 being unlimited activities. By day 21, they reported their activity level at 9.5. The majority of the patients were able to return to work within two weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prevalence of a soft tissue bridge in a sample of 2014 patients with complete unilateral clefts of the lip and palate.	This study examines the prevalence of a soft tissue bridge (Simonart's band) on 2014 Brazilian Caucasian patients with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate (UCLP). A soft tissue bridge occurred in 19.6% of the subjects; 94.9% of the soft tissue bands had skin coverage. The presence of soft tissue bridges was unrelated to gender and the laterality of the cleft.
The use of sorption detoxification methods for the prevention of dynamic intestinal obstruction in peritonitis]	The effect of hemosorption on motor-evacuatory intestinal function was studied in 169 patients with different forms of peritonitis of appendicular genesis. Early inclusion of hemosorption into the complex of treatment contributed to restoration of motor-evacuatory function of the intestine in 2-3 days, as well as to prevention of development of early commissural ileus.
Adhesion of percutaneously inserted Silastic central venous lines to the vein wall associated with Malassezia furfur infection.	Percutaneously inserted Silastic central venous catheters have been used for prolonged infusion of parenteral nutrition in neonates. Malassezia furfur infection has been associated with intravenous fat emulsions infused through central venous lines. In this paper, we report two premature infants whose Silastic catheters were adhered to the vein wall with associated M furfur infection.
Positive effect of balneotherapy on post-PID symptoms.	The aim of this study was investigation of effect of balneotherapy after antibiotic treatment of PID.
Reappraisal of Ekehorn's rectopexy in the management of rectal prolapse in children.	An old and simple operative technique for the treatment of rectal prolapse in children, first described by Ekehorn in 1909, has been reviewed. The technique consists of the insertion of a mattress suture (nonabsorbable and multifilament material) in the rectal ampulla through the lowermost part of the sacrum: the strands of the mattress suture are tied firmly over a piece of dry gauze at the level of the sacrococcygeal junction. By leaving the suture in place for 10 days, the local inflammation and infection causes firm adhesions between the rectal wall and the perirectal tissue so that the anorectal wall is bound to the surroundings (sacrorectopexy). The results of this retrospective study on 22 patients proves that this form of transsacral rectopexy in the management of rectal prolapse in children is effective (100%), simple and without complications compared to other techniques. There were no recurrences and no major morbidity. The overall surgical treatment of rectal prolapse in children is briefly reviewed.
Comparative study of biological glues: cryoprecipitate glue, two-component fibrin sealant, and "French" glue.	Although biological glues have been used clinically in cardiovascular operations, there are no comprehensive comparative studies to help clinicians select one glue over another. In this study we determined the efficacy in controlling suture line and surface bleeding and the biophysical properties of cryoprecipitate glue, two-component fibrin sealant, and "French" glue containing gelatin-resorcinol-formaldehyde-glutaraldehyde (GRFG).
Effect of penicillin on formation of fibrous adhesions in acute otitis media.	Fibrous middle ear adhesions are occasionally encountered in middle ear surgery and may cause a hearing impairment. Although usually associated with chronic otitis media, adhesions are also found following a single episode of experimental acute suppurative otitis media, suggesting a pathogenesis based on the inflammatory process engaging acute infection. In a well-established rat model of pneumococcal acute otitis media, we report on the effect of penicillin V on formation of fibrous middle ear adhesions. Previous studies have shown marked impact of penicillin on mucosal goblet cell density and other histopathologic features. Number, anatomic localization, and histopathologic morphology of adhesions were assessed in a longitudinal study of 25 normal, 25 untreated, and 25 treated rats. Although penicillin administration induced a slight tendency toward fewer ears with adhesions and fewer adhesions per ear, these changes were nonsignificant. Histomorphology and the general pattern of anatomic localization of adhesions were unaffected by penicillin administration. We conclude that administration of penicillin has an inconspicuous effect on the formation of fibrous adhesions in experimental acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae.
A case of infective thoracic aortic aneurysm ruptured to the lung]	We report a successful surgical treatment of an infective thoracic aortic aneurysm ruptured to the left lung. A 63-year-old man who had been suffering from fever and cough showed twice of hemoptysis. Chest CT revealed a descending thoracic aortic aneurysm ruptured to the left lung. A semiemergent operation was performed. At operation, aneurysm of descending thoracic aorta was found adherent to the left lung. Aneurysmectomy with left pneumonectomy was carried out. The postoperative course of the patient was uneventful. Conceivably, in order to avoid massive intraoperative bleeding during division of dense adhesion and postoperative graft infection, concomitant lung resection is necessary.
Use of the Miller-Abbott tube in treatment of early postoperative ileus]	The authors present an account on the use of an intraluminal intestinal stent to treat early postoperative ileus. They demonstrate on a case-history the possibility to combine the tube inserted via jejunostomy and with laparostomy. In the discussion they deal also with the historical development of intubation of the small intestine and support of controlled adhesion formation.
Secondary amenorrhea due to intrauterine adhesions: Asherman's syndrome]	Three women aged 35, 33 and 40 years had secondary amenorrhoea and monthly recurring abdominal pains after curettage for blood loss after a pregnancy. Hysteroscopy revealed intrauterine adhesions. The symptoms disappeared largely or completely after synechiolysis, introduction of an IUD and oestrogen treatment. Changes in the menstrual cycle, infertility or recurrent abortions starting after a puerperal or postabortum curettage should cause the physician to suspect intrauterine adhesions. For the diagnosis hysteroscopy is the method of choice and hysterography should be added for preoperative assessment and classification. Blind procedures for rupturing the adhesions should not be performed because of the risk of perforation and creating false routes.
Lead fixation in dogs achieved with RF energy.	The purpose of this study was to test whether radiofrequency (RF) energy could be used to fixate leads to the endocardium.
