The transcription factor Sp3 interacts with promoter elements of the lens specific MIP gene.	To characterize the cis regulatory elements and their interaction with transcription factors responsible for the lens specific expression of the MIP gene, which encodes the Major Intrinsic Protein of the lens fiber membranes.
Measurement of cardiac troponin I in striated muscle using three experimental methods.	Qualitative and quantitative measures of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in striated muscle have been reported as part of diverse investigations. However, there is disparity in the literature regarding the findings of these analyses. The cTnI molecule can exist in phosphorylated, non-phosphorylated, reduced, non-reduced, complexed or non-complexed forms. Each of these forms can change the antigenicity of cTnI, resulting in different antibody-antigen interactions in different experimental formats, thereby giving rise to the disparities in the literature.
Size-exclusion chromatography of biological samples which contain extremely alkaline proteins.	An improved size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) was developed to isolate extremely basic (alkaline) proteins, such as trypsin (pI=10.5), lysozyme (pI=11), and histone (pI=10.8). Develosil 300 Diol-5 (300 x 8 mm I.D., 30 nm average pore diameter) column was used with an eluent of 0.1 M sodium phosphate, 1.5 M sodium chloride, glycerol (40%, v/v), 2-propanol (10%, v/v), and Brij-58 (1%, v/v). Under these conditions, the final apparent pH becomes to 4.0, and pH adjustment is not necessary. Column temperature and flow rate were 15 degrees C and 0.2 ml/min, respectively. This elution system is stable and reliable, and applications onto human pancreatic juice, human bile, and tissue homogenates were successfully achieved. Since this system is convenient for protein analysis, it is expected to be generally applicable to clinical and biochemical research for identifying protein components in combination with microsequencing.
Application of the EPR spin-trapping technique to the detection of radicals produced in vivo during inhalation exposure of rats to ozone.	Ozone is known to induce lipid peroxidation of lung tissue, although no direct evidence of free radical formation has been reported. We have used the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin-trapping technique to search for free radicals produced in vivo by ozone exposure. The spin trap alpha-(4-pyridyl-1-oxide)-N-tert-butylnitrone (4-POBN) was administered ip to male Sprague-Dawley rats. The rats were then exposed for 2 hr to either 0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, or 2.0 ppm ozone with 8% CO2 to increase their respiratory rate. A six-line 4-POBN/radical spin adduct signal (aN = 15.02 G and a beta H = 3.27 G) was detected by EPR spectroscopy in lipid extracts from lungs of rats treated with 4-POBN and then exposed to ozone. Only a weak signal was observed in the corresponding solution from rats exposed to 0 ppm ozone (air with CO2 only). The concentration of the radical adduct increased as a function of ozone concentration. After administration of 4-POBN, rats were exposed for either 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, or 4.0 hr to either 0 or 2.0 ppm ozone (with CO2). The radical adduct concentration of the ozone-exposed groups at exposure times of 2.0 and 4.0 hr was significantly different from that of the corresponding air control groups. A correlation was observed between the radical adduct concentration and the lung weight/body weight ratio. These results demonstrate that ozone induces the production of free radicals in rat lungs during inhalation exposure and that radical production may be involved in the induction of pulmonary toxicity by ozone. This is the first direct evidence for ozone-induced free radical production in vivo.
Measurement of polychlorinated biphenyls in fish tissue by gas chromatography with electron capture detection and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.	Polychlorinated biphenyls in fish tissue were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC/ECD) methods. Fish samples were collected in 2000 and 2001 during an Indiana fish survey. For samples with concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 ppm (n = 40) and 0.5 to 5.0 ppm (n = 12), the ELISA results were not significantly different from GC/ECD (P < 0.05). This research has demonstrated the effectiveness of analysis of fish samples by ELISA in the development of fish consumption advisories that accurately articulate health risks from the consumption of contaminated fish.
Quantitative peptidomics of mouse pituitary: comparison of different stable isotopic tags.	Determining the relative levels of neuropeptides in two samples is important for many biological studies. An efficient, sensitive and accurate technique for relative quantitative analysis involves tagging the peptides in the two samples with isotopically distinct labels, pooling the samples and analyzing them using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS). In this study, we compared two different sets of isotopic tags for analysis of endogenous mouse pituitary peptides: succinic anhydride with either four hydrogens or deuteriums and [3-(2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-yloxycarbonyl)propyl]trimethylammonium chloride with either nine hydrogens or deuteriums. These two labels react with amines and impart either a negative charge (succinyl) or a positive charge (4-trimethylammoniumbutyryl (TMAB)). Every endogenous mouse pituitary peptide labeled with the light TMAB reagent eluted from the C18 reversed-phase column at essentially the same time as the corresponding peptide labeled with the heavy reagent. Most of the peptides labeled with succinyl groups also showed co-elution of the heavy- and light-labeled forms on LC/MS. The mass difference between the heavy and light TMAB reagents (9 Da per label) was larger than that of the heavy and light succinyl labels (4 Da per label), and for some peptides the larger mass difference provided more accurate determination of the relative abundance of each form. Altogether, using both labels, 82 peptides were detected in Cpe(fat/fat) mouse pituitary extracts. Of these, only 16 were detected with both labels, 41 were detected only with the TMAB label and 25 were detected only with the succinyl label. A number of these peptides were de novo sequenced using low-energy collisional tandem mass spectrometry. Whereas the succinyl group was stable to the collision-induced dissociation of the peptide, the TMAB-labeled peptides lost 59 Da per H9 TMAB group. Several peptides identified in this analysis represent previously undescribed post-translational processing products of known pituitary prohormones. In conclusion, both succinyl and TMAB isotopic labels are useful for quantitative peptidomics, and together these two labels provide more complete coverage of the endogenous peptides.
Genotoxic effect of smoke-dried meat extract in Swiss albino mice using sperm head shape abnormality test.	The genotoxic effect of an extract of smoke-dried meat was assayed by employing in vivo sperm head shape abnormality. A significant dose responsive mutagenic effect was observed using the sperm head shape abnormality test. The result indicates that higher doses i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg body wt. of smoke meat extract, significantly induced sperm head shape abnormality as compared to lower doses i.e., 20 mg/kg body wt. and control.
Optimized extraction of glycosaminoglycans from normal and osteoarthritic cartilage for glycomics profiling.	Articular cartilage is a highly specialized smooth connective tissue whose proper functioning depends on the maintenance of an extracellular matrix consisting of an integrated assembly of collagens, glycoproteins, proteoglycans (PG), and glycosaminoglycans. Isomeric chondroitin sulfate glycoforms differing in position and degree of sulfation and uronic acid epimerization play specific and distinct functional roles during development and disease onset. This work introduces a novel glycosaminoglycan extraction method for the quantification of mixtures of chondroitin sulfate oligosaccharides from intact cartilage tissue for mass spectral analysis. Glycosaminoglycans were extracted from intact cartilage samples using a combination of ethanol precipitation and enzymatic release followed by reversed-phase and strong anion exchange solid-phase extraction steps. Extracted chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycans were partially depolymerized using chondroitinases, labeled with 2-anthranilic acid-d(4) (2-AA) and subjected to size exclusion chromatography with online electrospray ionization mass spectrometric detection in the negative ion mode. The method presented herein enabled simultaneous determination of sulfate position and uronic acid epimerization in juvenile bovine and adult human cartilage samples. The method was applied to a series of 13 adult human cartilage explants. Standard deviation of the mean for the measurements was 1.6 on average. Coefficients of variation were approximately 4% for all compositions of 40% or greater. These results show that the new method has sufficient accuracy to allow determination of topographical distribution of glycoforms in connective tissue.
Nuclear magnetic resonance metabonomics: methods for drug discovery and development.	Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based metabonomics is gaining popularity in drug discovery and development and in academia in a variety of settings, ranging from toxicology, preclinical, and clinical approaches to nutrition research, studies on microorganisms, and research on plants. This chapter focuses on the basic steps in a metabonomics study and emphasizes experience and lessons learned in our lab where we focused on metabonomic analyses of plant extracts, cell lines, and a variety of animal tissues and biofluids. We emphasize that a comprehensive and suitable study design is pivotal for a correct biological interpretation of the results, as well as highly controlled experimental conditions. Sample preparation and NMR protocols are detailed for a wide range of sample types. We discuss alternative data processing strategies and considerations for a general data analysis approach, paying particular attention to the statistical interpretation and validation of the results while also highlighting approaches to avoid possible pitfalls resulting from systematic and random errors. A tutorial written for the R statistical package and other small utilities are available from the authors upon request.
Comparison of the reliability of the identification with diode array detector and mass spectrometry.	The reliability of compound identification by low resolution mass spectrometry (MS) was quantitatively compared with that for diode array detection (DAD). The quantity of the information obtained with one parent ion and two characteristic daughter ions at low resolution MS-MS was compared with that obtained by UV-vis spectra with large wavelength range from DAD. It was shown that if the UV-vis spectra are reproducible, i.e. with low RSD values for selected wavelengths and relative absorption, the reliability of the identification with DAD is comparable with the one for low resolution MS-MS. Because the sensitivity of the DAD is one or two orders of magnitude lower than that of mass spectrometry, on-column focusing was applied and reliable identification was achieved at 1 ppb concentration. The surprisingly high reliability of identification obtained with contemporary DADs should increase the analysts' confidence in this method of detection/confirmation.
An electrochemiluminescence-based competitive displacement immunoassay for the type-2 brevetoxins in oyster extracts.	A new competitive electrochemiluminescence-based immunoassay for the type-2 brevetoxins in oyster extracts was developed. The assay was verified by spiking known amounts of PbTx-3 into 80% methanol extracts of Gulf Coast oysters. We also provide preliminary data demonstrating that 100% acetone extracts, aqueous homogenates, and the clinical matrixes urine and serum can also be analyzed without significant matrix interferences. The assay offers the advantages of speed ( 2 h analysis time); simplicity (only 2 additions, one incubation period, and no wash steps before analysis); low limit of quantitation (conservatively, 50 pg/mL = 1 ng/g tissue equivalents); and a stable, nonradioactive label. Due to the variety of brevetoxin metabolites present and the lack of certified reference standards for liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry confirmation, a true validation of brevetoxins in shellfish extracts is not possible at this time. However, our assay correlated well with another brevetoxin immunoassay currently in use in the United States. We believe this assay could be useful as a regulatory screening tool and could support pharmacokinetic studies in animals and clinical evaluation of neurotoxic shellfish poisoning victims.
Multivariate data analysis in biochemistry: a new integrative approach to metabolic control in brain aging.	The principal component analysis (PCA) allows to obtain a quantitative measure of the state of metabolism as a whole. In this paper we applied this method to the study of energy metabolism during aging process and of the effect of a drug (Acetyl-1-carnitine, ALCAR) on the aging brain.
Bioanalytical characterisation of estrogen and arylhydrocarbon receptor agonists in transplanted blue mussels (Mytilus edulis): proof of concept.	The characterisation of estrogen (ER) and arylhydrocarbon (AhR) receptor agonists was performed in extracts of the tissues of transplanted blue mussels (Mytilus edulis). The yeast estrogen screen (YES) was used to detect the presence of ER agonists, whilst the DR-CALUX assay was used to detect AhR agonists. The concentration of ER agonists in mussel tissue from the Tees estuary, Brancaster and River Crouch (UK) were below the limits of detection for the YES assay (0.87 pg E2 g(-1)). AhR agonists were measured at concentrations of between 1 and 950 pg TCDD g(-1) in mussel tissue. A bioassay-directed fractionation of the sample extracts, followed by advanced broad spectrum gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis was then used in an attempt to identify the AhR agonists present. This showed that a complex mixture of AhR agonists occurs in the samples and that further work will be required in order to isolate and identify the individual compounds responsible.
Determination of dioxins and furans in foods and biological tissues: review and update.	Determination of trace residues of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs and PCDFs) in various matrixes is carried out by a limited number of laboratories in the United States, Canada, and other countries. Current methods for analysis of foods and biological tissues include a combination of preparation, extraction, cleanup, isolation, determination, and identity confirmation procedures. Soxhlet, liquid/liquid, solid-phase, and column extraction procedures are used as well as treatment with acid or base before solvent extraction. Cleanup and isolation steps include sulfuric acid partitioning; adsorption chromatography on Florisil, silica gel, or alumina; gel permeation chromatography; multi-stage column chromatography on sulfuric acid silica and alkali silica; carbon column chromatography; and liquid chromatography fractionation with size exclusion, normal-phase, and reverse-phase columns. Activated carbon and multistage chromatographic columns are widely used in cleanup schemes. Isomer-specific identification and quantitation of PCDD and PCDF congeners at parts-per-trillion levels or lower are carried out by high resolution (capillary) gas chromatography (HRGC) and multiple ion detection mass spectrometry. In addition to chemical methods, bioassay procedures have been recommended (e.g., use of monoclonal antibodies, for immunoassay determination of PCDDs and PCDFs).
A new collagenase blend increases the number of islets isolated from mouse pancreas.	Diabetes is a predominant metabolic disorder in the industrialized nations. Since pancreatic islets play a key role in type I and type II diabetes, the isolation of islets from pancreatic tissues represents an important step in diabetes research. However, to date, only a small fraction of all islets, resident within any given pancreas, are harvested by using currently available enzyme blends. This holds true for islet isolation from both the mouse and the human pancreas. In the present study, the newly developed Liberase TL Research Grade was compared to the widely used Liberase RI to investigate the effect of increased collagenase purity on islet yield. The study shows that reducing the degradation products of collagenases during Liberase production significantly increases the number of islets isolated from the mouse pancreas by 28%, and, therefore, is expected to lower the numbers of mice and resulting costs for diabetes research accordingly. Furthermore, this study also points to a possibility to increase the number and mass of islets isolated from human pancreases, for which only a limited donor pool exists.
Quantitative peptidomics of mice lacking peptide-processing enzymes.	Peptidomics is defined as the analysis of peptides present in a tissue extract, usually using mass spectrometry-based approaches. Unlike radioimmunoassay-based detection techniques, peptidomics measures the precise form of each peptide, including post-translational modifications, and can readily distinguish between longer and shorter forms of the same peptide. Also, peptidomics is not limited to known peptides and can detect hundreds of peptides in a single experiment. Quantitative peptidomics enables comparisons between two or more groups of samples and is perfect for studies examining the effect of gene knockouts on tissue levels of peptides. We describe the method for quantitative peptidomics using isotopic labels based on trimethylammonium butyrate, which can be synthesized in five different isotopic forms; this permits multivariate analysis of five different groups of tissue extracts in a single liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry run.
The effect of cell extracts of urological tumours on adenovirus mutants.	Various tumours of the urogenital system were studied whether their cells contain gene products characteristic of functioning adenovirus genes. Complementation studies were made by using tumour cell extracts and two temperature-sensitive adenovirus mutants at restrictive and permissive temperatures. The procedure was applied in in vitro HEp-2 cell culture. It was found that cell extracts of bladder tumour, renal tumour, malignant bladder papilloma and of penis cancer are capable of complementing adenovirus mutants at restrictive temperature, i.e. they induce the reproduction of virus mutants being otherwise incapable of replication. Thus, functioning adenovirus genes are present in the tumour cells. It seems that virus genes together with hormonal changes activate the cell protooncogenes giving rise to and maintaining tumours.
Use of a scanning densitometer or an ELISA plate reader for measurement of nanogram amounts of protein in crude extracts from biological tissues.	Protein contents of crude extracts from plant and animal tissues can be rapidly assayed using a Coomassie blue dye-binding procedure combined with scanning densitometry. Total protein is extracted from 100 mg of fresh-frozen or dried-ground tissue using 1 ml of extraction buffer. One-microliter aliquots of standard solutions or crude extracts are spotted in rows on a suitably sized sheet of Whatman 3MM chromatography paper. The dried samples are stained with Coomassie brilliant blue R-250 (0.2%, w/v, in acidified 50% MeOH) for 20 min and rinsed twice with acidified 20% MeOH. After drying, protein concentrations are read as reflectance using a scanning densitometer and peak heights or peak areas recorded using a digital integrator. In an alternative procedure, each spot is cut from the sample sheet and the dye-protein complex eluted in 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) using an ultrasonic cleaner. Absorbance is subsequently read in a microwell sample holder at 590 nm with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay plate reader. Both procedures offer distinct advantages over previously reported methods. They are significantly faster when large numbers of samples are processed, they avoid interference by chlorophyll, dithiothreitol, SDS, 2-mercaptoethanol, Nonidet P-40, and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (and other protease inhibitors) and they yield marked improvements in sensitivity, providing measurements of protein concentration below 100 and 200 ng.microliter-1, respectively.
iMatch2: compound identification using retention index for analysis of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry data.	We developed a method, iMatch2, for compound identification using retention indices (RI) in NIST11 library. Three-way ANOVA test and Kruskal-Wallis test respectively demonstrate that column class and temperature program type defined by the NIST library are the most dominant factors affecting the magnitude of retention index while the retention index data type does not cause significant difference. The developed linear regression transformation for merging retention indices with different data types, but the same column class and temperature program type, reduces the standard deviation of retention index up to 8%, compared to the simple union approach used in the original iMatch. As for outlier detection methods to remove retention indices having large difference with the remaining data of the same compound, Tietjen-Moore test and generalized extreme studentized deviate test are the strictest methods, while methods such as Dixon's test, Thompson tau approach, and Grubbs' test are more conservative. To improve the accuracy of retention index window, a concept of compound specific retention index window is introduced for compounds with a large number of retention indices in the NIST11 library, while the retention index window is calculated from empirical distributions for the compounds with a small number of retention indices. Analysis of the experimental data of a mixture of compound standards and the metabolite extract from mouse liver show significant improvement of retention index quality in the NIST11 library and the new data analysis methods. 
Determination of antigen concentration in tissue sections by immunodensitometry.	Our aim was to determine whether density of immunolabeling can be used to estimate the amount of an antigen in a tissue. The biological model was the pancreatic insulin-containing B cell. The insulin content of the pancreas of Wistar rats was decreased by five injections of glibenclamide (0.5, 1, or 2 mg/kg) every 12 hours. After resection of the whole pancreas specimens were taken for insulin extraction and measurement by radioimmunoassay and for immunocytochemistry. The sections were treated either by a polyclonal anti-insulin serum at 1/500 or 1/3000 and peroxidase-antiperoxidase complex or by a monoclonal anti-insulin serum at 1/500 and indirect immunoperoxidase. Peroxidase was revealed by diaminobenzidine. The density of immunostained B cells was determined with an automatic image analyzer (Ibas 2000, Kontron, FRG). Compared with controls, pancreatic insulin concentration was decreased by about 40, 60, and 85% in rats treated by the three doses of glibenclamide. A strong correlation was found between the insulin concentration and the optical density of islets under certain conditions: with the monoclonal anti-insulin serum (r = 0.90) and with the polyclonal anti-insulin serum at a high dilution (r = 0.95) but not at a low dilution (r = 0.13). With the latter, the optical density was high even in islets with reduced insulin content. In conclusion, a low dilution of antiserum should be used to detect cells with a small amount of antigen, whereas a higher dilution makes it possible to estimate the antigen concentration in the tissue. Thus, under appropriate conditions, a linear relationship exists between the optical density of the immunostained material and the concentration of immunoassayable antigen. This technique may thus prove useful in evaluating the functional state of cells, in particular secretory cells, under normal or pathological conditions.
A quantitative solid-phase assay for identifying radiolabeled glycosaminoglycans in crude cell extracts.	Extraction of radiosulfate-labeled cell layers in denaturing urea and nonionic detergent allows the quantitative binding of GAG-containing materials from up to 96 discrete samples to a single cationic nylon blot. Free sulfate and/or sulfated lipids fail to bind. Washing the blot with differential salt concentrations discriminates between native proteoglycans and free glycosaminoglycan chains or fragments. In addition, chondroitin sulfates and heparan sulfate are identified either by prior digestion with chondroitin ABC or AC lyase, as generated disaccharides fail to bind to the blot, or by treatment of the entire blot with nitrous acid following binding. Similarly, heparan sulfate can be identified on chromatograms or Western transfers from polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis by autoradiography before and after treatment of the blot with nitrous acid.
Existence of associated, non-associated, and oligomeric forms of human chorionic gonadotropin subunits in placental extracts.	The molecular sizes of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) subunits in the native state in normal first trimester placental extracts were determined by gel filtration on Sephacryl S-300, followed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, protein blotting, and immunobinding analysis using anti-alpha and - beta antibodies. Mature forms of hCG subunits in the extracts were only found in the same fraction as that which contained standard urinary hCG, indicating an alpha beta dimer. On the other hand, immature forms were detected with a wide range of molecular weights, which were higher than that of standard hCG, suggesting oligomerization of associated or non-associated immature subunits. In order to determine the associated state of these subunits, various forms of associated subunits (hCG alpha beta) in placental extracts were immunoprecipitated with anti-hCG antiserum, which only recognized hCG alpha beta, and Protein A-Sepharose. They were then analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under reducing and non-reducing conditions, followed by immunobinding assaying. It has been suggested that there are three kinds of hCG alpha beta S (one mature and two immature). To confirm the above results and to clarify the existence of free subunits, placental extracts were subjected to two-dimensional SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. With this technique, high molecular weight forms of immature hCG subunits were found to be present in placental cells as an oligomer of not only the alpha beta dimer but of each subunit as well.
Abnormality of calmodulin activity in hypertension. Evidence of the presence of an activator.	An apparent increase of calmodulin (CaM) activity was previously observed in the heart and kidney but not in the liver of spontaneously-hypertensive rats (SHR) and mice compared with their corresponding normotensive controls. As this change was due to an elevated recovery of CaM in the organs of the hypertensive animals, the present study was designed to evaluate its activity in hypertension. A CaM activator, detected in heart and kidney supernatants from hypertensive animals, was found to be responsible for this enhanced recovery. Similar results were obtained with passaged, cultured aortic smooth muscle cells from SHR, indicating that the anomaly was not a mere consequence of elevated blood pressure but rather a genetic expression of cells of hypertensive origin. The activator was heat stable, nondialyzable, and recovered in the fraction precipitated with 30-50% ammonium sulfate. Preliminary extraction studies suggest that the activator is contained in a glycolipid fraction. The stimulation of phosphodiesterase by this activator was calcium and CaM dependent. The activator appears to affect the affinity of the phosphodiesterase for CaM rather than the maximal stimulation. The activator was also present at a low concentration in the heart and kidney of normotensive animals. These findings indicate that at least some of the calcium abnormalities implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension could be the result of interactions between CaM, calcium, and this activator.
Automated high-performance liquid chromatographic method with column switching for the determination of neurotransmitters and related compounds, ascorbic acid and uric acid in tissue extracts.	An automated high-performance liquid chromatographic method with electrochemical and fluorimetric detection and on-line data evaluation is described for the simultaneous measurement of indoleaminergic and catecholaminergic neurotransmitters, some of their metabolites and precursors and ascorbic and uric acids. Deproteinized tissue extracts from the central nervous system or peripheral organs are injected without prior purification (recovery greater than 90%). A switching system enables the compounds to be passed as necessary through one, two or three reversed-phase columns, which are then eluted simultaneously (analysis time 25 min). Fifty samples per day can be analysed with a precision of 95% for neurotransmitters and about 90% for ascorbic and uric acids.
The regional distribution of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y in control and Alzheimer's disease striatum.	Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SLI) and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity (NPYLI) were measured in subdissections of both normal and Alzheimer's disease (AD) striatum at 5 coronal levels. Concentrations of both neuropeptides were relatively homogeneously distributed in the coronal and anterior-posterior planes except for a trend towards increased concentrations in the tail of the caudate and the posterior putamen. The nucleus accumbens showed 2-3-fold higher concentrations of both SLI and NPYLI than the rest of the striatum. There were no significant differences between control and AD brains. The high concentrations of SLI and NPYLI in the nucleus accumbens suggest that this region may receive somatostatin-neuropeptide Y afferents and that somatostatin and neuropeptide Y may play a role in the modulation of motor activity.
Diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam are found in rat brain and adrenal and may be of plant origin.	Benzodiazepine-binding inhibitory (BBI) activity was detected in aqueous extracts of brain and peripheral tissues of rats. The BBI activity in brain and in adrenals was, at least partially, due to the presence of N-desmethyldiazepam and diazepam as shown by HPLC, UV-spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. In addition, BBI activity was found in standardized rat food, as well as in a variety of cereals and in other nutritive plant products. In wheat grains diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam could be identified by HPLC and analysis by gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry. The estimated amounts of the two benzodiazepines present in rat brain and adrenals and in wheat grains were in the low ppb range. Since laboratory contamination was rigorously excluded we conclude that diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam are naturally occurring compounds. These findings may explain their occurrence in the brain and adrenals of animals.
Effect of acid extraction on the osteogenic activity of bone tissue]	Rat bones demineralized in HCl and TCA exhibited distinct osteoinductive activity while the bones demineralized using EDTA did not show the activity. HCl- and TCA-extracts of bones differed from EDTA extracts by chromatographic and radiochromatographic profiles. At the same time, HCl- and TCA-extracts contained additional fraction. The substances involved in the fraction appear to be responsible for inhibition of the osteoinductive factor of bone tissue.
Detection of low molecular weight trypsin inhibitors in small samples of cartilage, cartilage extracts and synovial fluid by gel diffusion]	The radial diffusion assay is a very useful method for detection of low amounts of proteinase inhibitors in biological materials. The determination of low molecular weight (LMW) inhibitors in the presence of high molecular weight inhibitors is possible by the combination of radial diffusion and ultrafiltration. Using this method LMW trypsin inhibitors could be demonstrated in human articular cartilage, but not in human synovial fluid. In cow, pig and sheep a LMW trypsin inhibitor could be found in both the articular cartilage and in the synovial fluid. On the other hand, a LMW trypsin inhibitor could not be found neither in the canine cartilage nor in the canine synovial fluid. The method allows also the direct determination of LMW trypsin inhibitors in cartilage extracts in the presence of 4 M guanidinium hydrochloride or 6 M urea. Therefore, the method is recommended for direct determination of LMW inhibitors by column chromatographic separations of inhibitors.
Tissue plasminogen activators in breast cancer.	Increased levels of tissue fibrinolytic activity have been detected in some malignant tumours and they have been implicated in metastatic spread. We have investigated tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (UK) in 26 breast carcinomas and 13 benign breast biopsies. Tissue extracts were analysed for overall fibrinolytic activity on fibrin plates and by fibrin-overlay zymography after electrophoresis on SDS-PAG. Supernatants of the extracts were analysed by an antigenic immunoassay (ELISA) and a functional bioimmunoassay (BIA) using polyclonal antibodies. Total ELISA and BIA results correlated (P less than 0.001) and all the tissues contained similar tPA levels. Malignant extracts contained significantly increased UK compared with benign extracts (1.60 +/- 0.37 iu, 0.36 +/- 0.16 iu; P less than 0.002). Zymography showed no high molecular weight inhibitor complexes and UK was almost exclusively confined to the malignant tissues (P much less than 0.02). The results suggest that malignant transformation of breast tissue is associated with the significantly increased production of UK. This may be responsible for the characteristics of malignancy or it may be a growth factor.
Effects of histamine and related compounds on the release of immunoreactive thyrotropin-releasing hormone from the rat stomach in vitro.	Effects of histamine and related compounds on the release of immunoreactive thyrotropin-releasing hormone (ir-TRH) from the rat stomach in vitro were studied. The rat stomach was incubated in medium 199 with 1.0 mg/ml of bacitracin and 100 micrograms/ml of ascorbic acid (pH 7.4) for 20 min. The amount of TRH release into the medium was measured by radioimmunoassay. The ir-TRH release from the rat stomach was enhanced significantly in a dose-related manner with the addition of histamine and inhibited with the addition of famotidine, but not with mepyramine. The stimulatory effect of histamine on ir-TRH release from the stomach was partially blocked with the addition of famotidine, but not with mepyramine. The elution profile of acid-methanol-extracted rat stomach on Sephadex G-10 was identical to that of synthetic TRH. These findings suggest that histamine stimulated ir-TRH release from the rat stomach in vitro, and that histamine's effects may be mediated via a H2-receptor.
Partial characterization of a renin-releasing factor from plasma and hypothalamus.	Previous studies have indicated that administration of the serotonin releaser p-chloroamphetamine HCl produces a dose-dependent increase in renin secretion through a blood-borne renin-releasing factor. The present studies were designed to partially characterize this renin-releasing factor using an in vitro kidney slice method for the bioassay of renin-releasing activity. Plasma from p-chloroamphetamine-treated, nephrectomized rats was used to obtain the renin-releasing factor, which was fractionated by ultrafiltration into fractions of molecular weight ranges of 1000 to 5000, 5000 to 10,000, and 10,000 to 20,000. The molecular weight ranges of the renin-releasing factor was determined to be between 5000 and 10,000. Since previous studies have shown that lesions in the hypothalamus prevent the effect of p-chloroamphetamine on renin secretion, we tested whether a hypothalamic extract can release renin from kidney slices. Addition of extracts of boiled rat hypothalamic tissue to the kidney slices caused an increase in renin release. Addition of cerebellar extracts produced a smaller increase in renin release, whereas addition of pituitary extracts had no effect. Fractionation by ultrafiltration of bovine hypothalamic extract revealed that the fraction with a molecular weight range of 5000 to 10,000 possessed the highest renin-releasing ability. The 1000 to 5000 (molecular weight) fraction possessed a sizeable renin-releasing activity, but the 10,000 to 20,000 fraction had no renin-releasing activity. Both bovine hypothalamus fractions (molecular weights between 1000-5000 and 5000-10,000) and plasma fraction lost their renin-releasing activity after digestion with pronase, suggesting that the renin-releasing factor or factors are peptides. These results suggest that a renin-releasing factor originate in the hypothalamus.
Kinetic description of proteolysis. Part 1. Peptic hydrolysis of proteins isolated from chicken heart: optimization in terms of time and substrate concentration.	Simple equation for the total rate of proteolysis is proposed. The equation, based on the renal mechanism of proteolysis includes the substrate concentration and some functions of the degree of hydrolysis. These functions are experimentally determined in the case of peptic hydrolysis of chicken heart proteins. The integration of differential equation made it possible to describe the kinetics of the proteolysis in terms of substrate concentration, degree of proteolysis and reaction time. The kinetics of proteolysis does not obey the Michaelis-Menten law. The proposed way for mathematical modelling permits the optimization by productivity.
ATPase inhibitory activities found in the soluble fraction of an ascidian (Halocynthia rotezi) muscle]	Crude extracts obtained by water extraction from the muscle of an ascidian (Halocynthia rotezi) are shown to possess an inhibitory activity on ATPase [(Na, K) ATPase, TF1-ATPase, HMM-ATPase]. Gel filtration of the extract with Sephadex G-10 separated the activity into two peaks, and the latter peak (inhibitor II) was further purified by HPLC. This inhibitor was non-competitive for ATP and associated firmly with the (Na, K) ATPase.
Cytochalasin B: preparation, analysis in tissue extracts, and pharmacokinetics after intraperitoneal bolus administration in mice.	Cytochalasin B (CB) was prepared by methanol extraction of dehydrated mold (Drechslera dematioidea) matte, reverse-phase C18 silica gel batch adsorption, selective elution with 1:1 (v/v) hexane:tetrahydrofuran (THF), crystallization, preparative TLC, and recrystallization. Unit gravity silica gel normal phase chromatography afforded additional CB. Yield per liter of medium was 300 mg of CB greater than 95% pure by NMR, HPLC (60:40 hexane:THF, Lichrosorb Si60 silica gel, 230 nm), and TLC. CB added exogenously to mouse organs at 1 and 5 micrograms/organ was recovered 70 to 100% by methanol extraction, adsorption to C18 silica gel Sep-Pak cartridges, elution with ethyl acetate, and analysis by TLC and/or HPLC. Limiting sensitivity (micrograms/extract) was 0.5 TLC; 1.0 HPLC. Quantitative extraction was confirmed with 3H-labeled CB. CB ip in mice at 50 mg/kg (LD10) distributed rapidly into liver, renal fat, kidney, intestines, mesentery, pancreas, spleen, and blood cells and was cleared from all but liver within 24 h. CB was below detectable levels in thymus, lymph nodes, heart, brain, bone marrow, and lungs. Cytochalasin A is fixed to tissues and not extractable. This work affords a source of CB in quantities permitting in vivo study, provides methods for extraction and analysis, and reveals the pharmacokinetics of ip bolus CB.
Presence of thyroxine in eggs and changes in its content during early development of chum salmon, Oncorhynchus keta.	In order to examine the role of thyroid hormones during salmonid development, techniques were developed for quantitative extraction of thyroxine from eggs, whole embryos, and alevins of chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) at various stages of development. Frozen eggs, embryos, alevins, or fry were homogenized in ice-cold methanol. The homogenate was centrifuged, and the supernatant was washed with a mixture of chloroform and 0.05% CaCl2. The aqueous layer was lyophilized, and the residue was redissolved in barbital buffer for thyroxine radioimmunoassay (RIA). Serial dilutions of the egg or tissue extracts gave inhibition slopes that were parallel to that of the thyroxine standard in the RIA. Immunoreactivity of the extracts coeluted with thyroxine standard in reverse-phase HPLC on an ODS column. Recovery of thyroxine from egg and tissue extracts was estimated from the recovery of 125I-labeled thyroxine added to the initial homogenates. Thyroxine content of eggs just after fertilization was 4-5 ng/egg, and this level was maintained until hatching. A decrease in thyroxine content was seen during yolk absorption. Total thyroxine increased to about 10 ng/fish, a level higher than that in the unfertilized egg, at the time of complete yolk absorption, and decreased within 10 days to a low level of 1 ng/fish. These findings are discussed in relation to the role of maternal thyroid hormones during early development and also to the onset of larval thyroid function.
A method for the purification of Leishmania promastigotes from infected phlebotomine sandflies.	We describe a method for the purification of Leishmania promastigotes, isolated from infected sandflies (Lutzomyia longipalpis) using a discontinuous density centrifugation gradient (Percoll/Homem). The sandflies, infected seven days previously with Leishmania donovani chagasi or Leishmania mexicana mexicana from culture, were homogenized and centrifuged on a Percoll discontinuous gradient. Five interface bands were formed, and most of the promastigotes settled out at the interface between the (30% and 40%) Percoll concentrations. An extraction of 3.5 x 10(4) promastigotes from 90 female flies was achieved using this technique.
Distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the rat central nervous system--I. Radioimmunoassay and chromatographic characterisation.	The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the rat brain was investigated by means of immunochemical techniques. In the first part of the study (present paper) neuropeptide Y radioimmunoassays were characterised and the chromatographic properties and regional distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was investigated. The second part of the study (accompanying paper) involved immunohistochemical techniques. Extracts from several regions of rat brain were found to contain immunoreactivity that behaved like synthetic porcine neuropeptide Y in three test systems: dilution in the radioimmunoassay (test of antigenic properties), gel chromatography (molecular weight), reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (solubility properties). Experiments were conducted to optimise the extraction of neuropeptide Y. Boiling 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, extracted at least two times as much immunoreactivity from whole brain pieces as other buffers. The nature of the extracted immunoreactivity was confirmed using chromatography. Experiments (using added iodinated or unlabelled neuropeptide Y standards) demonstrated that the differences between extraction media could not be explained by differential recovery of the peptide, although differences in recovery between media existed. Tissue sample weight was found to influence neuropeptide Y recovery. Evidence that rat neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was not identical to the porcine peptide was obtained from experiments which demonstrated an early eluting peak of immunoreactivity in addition to the main peak on high performance liquid chromatograms. This material could be generated by oxidation of extracted rat neuropeptide Y, suggesting the presence in the rat peptide of a methionine residue. Some evidence of high molecular weight neuropeptide Y precursors was obtained from chromatography of hypothalamus extracts. Bovine pancreatic polypeptide-like material represented less than 1% of the amounts of neuropeptide Y in the brain. The distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was non-uniform in the rat brain with highest concentrations observed in the hypothalamus, amygdaloid complex and periaqueductal central gray matter. Other regions of forebrain contained moderate to high concentrations including olfactory tubercle, striatum, nucleus accumbens, neocortex and hippocampus. Negligible amounts were detected in the cerebellum. In spinal cord immunoreactivity was concentrated in the dorsal horn, although measurable amounts were found in the ventral horn. The neurointermediate but not anterior lobe of the pituitary contained neuropeptide Y.
Expression of tyrosine aminotransferase activity in somatic-cell heterokaryons: evidence for negative control of enzyme expression.	Cells of the tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5)-inducible line, HTC, were fused with those of the BRL-62 line, which contain little or no enzyme and are unresponsive to the usual steroid inducers. Histochemical examination of the resulting heterokaryons within 24 hr of the fusion showed them to have little or no enzyme and to be unresponsive to steroids. These experiments disclose that the observed negative dominance is universal in the fused cells and that such dominance occurs promptly after fusion, when loss of chromosomes has not occurred.
Studies on "big" growth hormone from human plasma and pituitary.	Most of the immunoreactive growth hormone (IRGH) in human plasma elutes from Sephadex G-75 as "little" GH (LGH), mol wt 22,000, but 14-39% elutes earlier ("big" GH, BGH). In saline extracts of human pituitary, 11-17% of IRGH eluted as BGH. On gel filtration of pituitary and plasma BGH in 8 M urea, 59-81% ran as LGH, but when the remaining BGH was refiltered in urea, all ran as BGH. Thus there is a "urea-stable" and a "urea-labile" form of BGH. SImilarly, freezing and thawing converted over half of pituitary and plasma BGH to LGH, but when the "freeze-stable" BGH was again frozen, thawed, and refiltered, almost all ran as BGH. Urea-stable BGH was not dissociated by freezing, and most of the freeze-stable BGH was stable in urea, so the two forms are very similar or identical. Since 8 M urea and freezing dissociate peptides linked by noncovalent bonds, probably the BGH that is dissociated by urea and freezing consists of LGH bound noncovalently to another moiety, while in stable BGH the LGH is bound to another molecule by covalent or unusually strong noncovalent linkage. On centrifugation, the sedimentation of urea-stable BGH was consistent with a mol wt about twice that of LGH. Trypsinization of urea-stable BGH converted 36-59% to LGH, suggesting that some BGH may be a "prohormone" of LGH. On retrypsinization of the BGH that was not converted to LGH, only 13-24% converted, suggesting that there may be two forms of urea-stable BGH which vary in their response to trypsin.
Incubation effects in behavior induction in rats.	Incubation (rest) periods interposed during donor training regimens significantly enhance the "memory transfer" effect reported by some investigators. When extracts from ihe brains of donor rats given interpolated rest during acquisition training were injected into recipient animals, statistically reliable and experimentally reproducible "memory transfer" effects were found.
Identification of neurohypophysial hormones with their antisera.	Identifying posterior pituitary hormones in body fluids or neurohypophysial extracts was heretofore partially achieved by using pharmacologic potency ratios or semispecific inactivation by thioglycolate or enzymes. Production of antisera against oxytocin and lysine-vasopressin has prompted us to test their specificity against lysine-vasopressin, arginine-vasopressin, arginine-vasotocin, and oxytocin. In ethanol anesthetized rats, antidiuretic and milk-ejection activities were assayed for each peptide-antiserum combination after 0, 30, 60, and 90 min of incubation. Results indicate that (a) oxytocin antiserum inactivates oxytocin, but not arginine-vasopressin, lysine-vasopressin, or arginine-vasotocin; vasopressin antiserum inactivates arginine-vasopressin and lysine-vasopressin, but neither oxytocin nor arginine-vasotocin; (b) an identifiable antigenic site exists for each hormone; (c) relatively specific identifications of natural neurohypophysial peptides are possible using antisera and bioassays; (d) this method is promising for identifying neurohypophysial peptides in body fluids and pituitary extracts; and (e) active and passive immunization against oxytocin and vasopressin may increase our understanding of their physiologic functions.
Determination of tissue thromboplastin activity.	The one-stage prothrombin time test for tissue thromboplastin activity was evaluated using the correction method. A strong influence of the intrinsic system was seen depending on the clotting time and the type of tubes. This test was unsuitable for quantitative comparison of thromboplastin activity of different preparations. Subsequently a two-stage assay for human thromboplastin is described using purified human factor VII, artifically prepared factor VII reagent, and a phospholipid suspension. The correction method, applicated to this two-stage assay, resulted in a rectilinear dose-response curve when the clotting times of a thromboplastin dilution series were plotted against the reciprocal of the concentrations. Using this test system it could be shown that thromboplastin from porcine tissue can activate human factor VII quite well, while that from bovine tissue cannot.
Studies on the role of opiate peptides in two forms of genetic obesity: ob/ob mouse and fa/fa rat.	Recent reports have indicated that genetically obese hyperinsulinemic mice (ob/ob) and Zucker rats (fa/fa) compared with their lean controls have elevated levels of pituitary and plasma B-endorphins, opiates that can stimulate insulin secretion. In this study we have measured opiate levels by a radio-receptor assay in gastro-intestinal tissues and pancreas in ob/ob and fa/fa animals and their controls. Ob/ob mice showed significantly higher levels than control mice (+/+) in most gastro-intestinal tissues and pancreas. Levels in fa/fa rats did not differ from their controls. Radioimmunoassay of pancreas for B-endorphins, revealed higher levels in ob/ob vs +/+ mice, while there was no difference in the obese and lean rats. Fasting tended to decrease gastro-intestinal opioids in mice, while B-endorphin levels rose. It is concluded that opiates may play a significant role in the obesity of the ob/ob mouse and that this genetic obesity differs from that in Zucker rats.
Production of a low molecular weight eosinophil polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotactic factor by anaplastic squamous cell carcinomas of human lung.	A peptide of approximately 300-400 daltons exhibiting in vitro chemotactic activity for human polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes, with a preference for the eosinophil series, was isolated from extracts of anaplastic lung carcinomas of the large squamous cell type obtained from three patients with marked peripheral blood hypereosinophilia and eosinophilic infiltration of the tumors and surrounding normal pulmonary tissues. This chemotactic factor was termed ECF-LSC (eosinophil chemotactic factor of lung squamous cell carcinoma). ECF-LSC appeared in the urine of two of the patients in increasing quantities late in the course of their disease and was also elaborated by long-term cultures of dispersed tumor cells from the same two patients. Three anaplastic large cell bronchogenic carcinomas which were not associated with tumor tissue or peripheral blood eosinophilia, a bronchogenic adenocarcinoma from a patient with only peripheral eosinophilia, and a renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the lungs and associated with transient pleural tissue and fluid eosinophilia were all devoid of ECF-LSC. ECF-LSC from tumor tissue extracts, urine, and tumor cell culture medium was comparable to the mast cell-associated tetrapeptides of the eosinophil chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis (ECF-A) in size, but eluted from Dowex-1 at pH 5.0-3.5 in contrast to the more acidic ECF-A tetrapeptides which eluted at pH 3.2-2.2 ECF-LSC, like the tetrapeptides of ECF-A, had a secondary chemotactic activity for neutrophil PMN leukocytes, but not mononuclear leukocytes, and deactivated both eosinophil and neutrophil PMN leukocytes so that they would not respond to a subsequent in vitro chemotactic stimulus. Eosinophils from the two patients with urinary excretion of ECF-LSC and the highest concentrations in tumor extracts were hyporesponsive in vitro to homologous and heterologous chemotactic stimuli, suggesting that ECF-LSC had deactivated the eosinophils in vivo.
An immunoradiometric assay for the acidic ferritin of human heart: application to human tissues, cells and serum.	Human tissues contain ferritin molecules with a range of isoelectric points but immunoassays for detecting serum ferritin have generally employed antibodies to the more basic liver or spleen proteins. To study the distribution of more acidic ferritins in tissues and serum acidic ferritin has been isolated from normal human heart and a two-site immunoradiometric assay for this protein developed. This assay gives little cross-reaction with spleen ferritin. Tissue ferritins have been fractionated by anion exchange chromatography and assayed with both spleen and heart antibodies. The spleen ferritin assay detects the more basic ferritin and the heart ferritin assay the more acidic ferritin. Acidic ferritins were found in heart, kidney, reticulocytes and HeLa cells. In sera from normal subjects and patients with iron overload, myocardial infarction, leukaemia and carcinoma only low concentrations of heart ferritin were found, although in the pathological sera spleen ferritin concentrations were generally raised. Circulating ferritin contains only a small proportion of molecules with the immunological characteristics of acidic heart ferritin.
High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis on radial compression column of the neurotoxic tri-o-cresyl phosphate and metabolites.	A method utilizing high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been developed for the analysis of tri-o-cresyl phosphate (TOCP) and its possible metabolites, o-cresyl dihydrogen phosphate, di-o-cresyl hydrogen phosphate, o-hydroxybenzyl alcohol, o-cresol, saligenin cyclic-o-tolyl phosphate [2-(o-cresyl)-4H-1:3:2:benzodioxaphosphoran-2-one], salicylic acid, salicylaldehyde, hydroxymethyl TOCP (di-o-cresyl o-hydroxymethylphenyl phosphate), and dihydroxymethyl TOCP (o-cresyl di-o-hydroxymethylphenyl phosphate). TOCP and its possible metabolites were analyzed on a reverse-phase C18 cartridge fitted into RCM-100 radial-compression separation system. Compounds were separated using a linear gradient of 25 to 80% acetonitrile in 2% aqueous acetic acid at a flow rate of 1.3 ml/min in a period of 22 min. Quantification was achieved by monitoring the ultraviolet absorbance of the column eluates at 254 nm and measuring peak areas. Retention times and peak areas were highly reproducible for all compounds analyzed. The relationship between peak area and amount injected was linear over a 100-fold range for all compounds analyzed. The minimum detectable level was 3 ng for salicylaldehyde, 25 ng for o-hydroxybenzyl alcohol and salicylic acid, and 50 ng for the remaining compounds. A mixture of TOCP and its possible metabolites was added to samples of cat liver, kidney, and plasma and then extracted and analyzed. High recovery and reproducibility for most compounds was observed in tissues analyzed.
Quantitative analysis of aminophospholipids by high-performance liquid chromatography using succinimidyl 2-naphthoxyacetate as a fluorescent label.	A simple and rapid high-performance liquid chromatographic procedure for the quantitative analysis of ethanolamine- and serine-containing phospholipids in tissue is described. The technique involves reaction of lipid extracts with succinimidyl 2-naphthoxyacetate to give fluorescent derivatives of aminophospholipids. Reaction products are separated by a silica gel column with gradient elution. The eluate is monitored by fluorescence detection at 228 nm (excitation) and 342 nm (emission). Ethanolamine and serine plasmalogens can be measured indirectly by converting their derivatives into lysophosphatidylethanolamine and lysophosphatidylserine derivatives with exposure to hydrogen chloride fumes. The method is highly sensitive and selective.
Comparison of fetal and adult human bone: identification of a chemotactic factor in fetal bone.	Studies employing the matrix-induced endochondral bone formation system have outlined the processes involved in bone induction. An initial event is increased migration of mesenchymal cells to the implant site prior to endochondral calcification. This suggests that chemotactic factors in the bone matrix may be involved in the osteogenic process. Extracts of human fetal bone, obtained by sequential demineralization, stimulated the migration of osteoblast-like cells in a dose-dependent fashion, as assayed in the Boyden chamber. In contrast, comparable extracts of normal adult bone (40-year-old male) did not stimulate osteoblast migration. Monocytes, potential osteoclast precursors, did not migrate in response to either of these extracts. These studies suggest that significant differences exist in protein composition and/or distribution between fetal and adult human bones. These differences may well influence the remodeling potential of these bones.
A comparison of the content and immunohistochemical patterns of CEA-like activity in human colorectal tumours and nude mouse xenografts.	The immunohistochemical pattern of CEA-like material was examined in sections of five human colonic tumour xenograft lines in nude mice and in the primary tumours from which these lines were derived. Conventional tissue sections were stained by a PAP immunoperoxidase technique, using affinity purified goat anti-CEA as the primary reagent. Normal human and nude mouse tissues were also examined. Saline extracts were made from three of the human tumours and from examples of the respective xenograft lines. The CEA content of extracts was determined by radioimmunoassay. The pattern of CEA-like material was similar in primary tumours and xenografts, but in 3/5 xenograft lines the intensity of specific staining was reduced when compared to that of the respective primary tumour. The three xenograft lines from which extracts were made contained mean values of 22%, 63% and 68% of the CEA activity found in the respective primary tumours, and the data suggested that reduced immunoperoxidase stain intensity seen in some xenografts resulted from the presence of far less antigen than in the corresponding primary tumour. We suggest that some xenograft lines represent subpopulations of cells in the primary tumour which produce less CEA than those of the primary tumour sample examined, although histologically no differences can be identified. No CEA-like activity was detected in normal nude mouse tissues.
The right auricle of the heart is an endocrine organ. Cardiodilatin as a peptide hormone candidate.	A new polypeptide hormone candidate regulating vascular smooth muscle function was extracted from porcine atrial tissue. The purification steps were followed by a bioassay. The hormonally active substance has been analyzed and found to be a small polypeptide exhibiting a molecular weight of about 7500 and is named "cardiodilatin" (CDD). Further chemical data on this new hormone will be published elsewhere. A partial amino acid sequence of cardiodilatin is offered and shows that among the well known hormones or neuropeptides, none exhibit a homologue partial sequence.
Purification of GABA on small columns of Dowex 50W; Combination with a method for separation of biogenic amines.	Elution of GABA has been included in the method for separation of biogenic amines on small Dowex 50W columns described by Atack & Magnusson (1978). After extraction with perchloric acid and neutralization to pH 3.0, the sample is passed through the column. 5-HIAA might thereafter be eluted as described by Lindqvist (1971). After washes with water and 8 ml of a 0.025 M sodium citrate buffer pH 4.5, GABA is eluted in 3 ml of a 0.05 M sodium citrate buffer pH 5.3-5.4. The elution of tryptophane and the above mentioned amines can thereafter be performed. The recovery of GABA from the column is 100%. Silica thin-layer chromatography of the GABA eluate gives only one ninhydrine positive spot with a Rf value identical to GABA standard. When the GABA eluate from a whole brain and spinal cord is run on an automatic amino acid analyser, only one peak is detectable, eluted in the same position as GABA standard. Fluorescence analysis of the GABA eluate gives similar values if a( ninhydrine, b) acetylacetone plus formaldehyde or c) fluorescamine is used to form the flurophore. The GABA values are identical whether the samples reacted with ninhydrine are diluted with water or copper tartrate. The GABA concentrations found in some parts of the rat brain are of the same order of magnitude as reported by other authors.
Inhibition of myoblast differentiation in vitro by a protein isolated from liver cell medium.	We have recently discovered that cells of Coon's Buffalo rat liver (BRL) line secrete a protein which is a potent inhibitor of skeletal myoblast differentiation in vitro. Using ion exchange and molecular exclusion chromatography, we have prepared this protein, which we designate "differentiation inhibitor" (DI), from the materials secreted by BRL cells maintained in serum-free medium. It is a relatively heat-stable protein which is inactivated by treatment with trypsin and mercaptoethanol and has an apparent molecular weight in the range 30,000--36,000. It exhibits no detectable mitogenic or lectin activity and differs from previously reported inhibitors of myoblast differentiation in several respects. It is active in all skeletal myoblast systems tested (Yaffe's L6 line as well as primary cultures of rat, chick, and Japanese quail myoblasts), and it blocks fusion, elevation of creatine kinase, and increased binding of alpha-bungarotoxin. Parallel fractionation of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and chick embryo extract (CEE) yields a peak of activity which similarly inhibits myoblast differentiation. We suggest that the differentiation inhibitor from BRL cells may correspond to the differentiation-inhibiting component(s) of FBS and CEE, and we call attention to the possibility that such a substance could play a role in embryonic growth of myoblasts and in satellite cell formation.
Identification of an endogenous inhibitor of prostatic carcinoma cell growth.	The rate of expansion of primary prostatic carcinoma is comparatively slow, with tumours frequently taking years or decades to reach clinically relevant size. We now report the presence of an endogenous inhibitor, derived from aqueous extracts of human prostate tissue, which blocks prostatic carcinoma cell proliferation in vitro and prevents subcutaneous tumour expansion in vivo. Purification and characterization revealed the inhibitor to be spermine, a polyamine known to be locally abundant in the prostate. These results suggest that endogenous polyamine can negatively regulate the growth of prostatic carcinoma cells at their primary site in vivo and may explain the slow rate of primary tumour expansion in the prostate.
Evidence for several types of biologically active substances in north Pacific sea anemones.	1. Twenty-two sea anemone samples from seven species were collected in Aleutian and Comandorskiye Islands from sub-littoral region (> 50m depth). 2. Water-ethanol extracts of sea anemones were tested using various test-systems after ethanol evaporation. 3. All sea anemones extracts inhibited DNA and most of them inhibited RNA synthesis in Ehrlich carcinoma tumor cells. 4. Extracts of most sea anemones species showed high hemolytic activity. 5. The extracts proved to be nontoxic or display low toxicity being i.p. injected into mice. 6. Some extracts precipitated virus of aleutian disease of mink. 7. None of the extracts showed activity toward Gram +ve, Gram -ve bacteria or yeast.
Alterations of gammacarboxyglutamic acid in formic acid and guanidine extracts in phosphate-deficient rat bone.	We developed rickets and osteomalacia in rats by means of a low phosphorus, normal calcium and normal vitamin D diet, causing severely inhibited mineralization. The concentrations of gammacarboxyglutamic acid (Gla) in 10% formic acid and 5M guanidine extracts were studied in normal and phosphate-deficient rat bone. Although the Gla concentration in the formic acid extract was constant for both groups, it decreased in the guanidine extract of the phosphate-deficient group. The Gla content of the guanidine extract reflected a lower concentration of Gla-containing proteins, one of which, matrix Gla protein (MGP), acts as a mineral deposition inhibitor. Thus, the production of MGP decreased in the impaired mineralization of bone. The quantification of Gla in formic acid and guanidine extract is useful in studying the Gla-containing proteins, osteocalcin and MGP.
Analysis of tilmicosin in swine liver extracts by liquid chromatography/atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry.	Tilmicosin is a semisynthetic macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment of respiratory disease in cattle and swine. The technique of liquid chromatography/atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (LC/APCI-MS) was employed in an on-line capacity for the analysis of tilmicosin in extracts from spiked swine liver. Increasing the potential in the cone/skimmer region of the ion source resulted in an increased abundance of unique structurally indicating fragment ions of tilmicosin. Three ions, [M+H]+ and two diagnostic fragment ions were chosen for confirmation of the presence of tilmicosin in swine liver tissue extracts using the mass spectrometer in selected-ion monitoring mode. The ion abundance ratios arising from any given combination of ions in data acquired from extracts of swine liver tissue spiked with tilmicosin at 5 and 10 ppm were within +/- 10% of the corresponding mean standard abundance ratio, and duplicate sample analyses exhibited < 10% relative standard deviation. These results suggest the potential for the application of LC/APCI-MS as a confirmatory technique for tilmicosin in swine liver.
Eosinophil chemotactic factors from cysticercoids of Hymenolepis nana.	A comparative study of eosinophil chemotactic factors was carried out using cysticercoids and oncospheres of Hymenolepis nana. Cysticercoids showed twice the chemotactic activity for eosinophils than the oncospheres. Eosinophilia induced by oncospheres and cysticercoids observed in secondary and primary infections, respectively, were discussed from the view point of the immunobiology of this parasite.
