Development of anti-hLH antibodies after therapy with posterior pituitary extract.	This report describes the appearance of high affinity antibodies to human LH in a girl who had been treated for diabetes insipidus with injections of pitressin tannate, plus occasional nasal insufflations of posterior pituitary powder. Immunological studies indicated that the antibody was a 7S IgG directed against the beta subunit of LH, which is not species-specific. The demonstration of immunoassayable LH in a commercially available pitressin preparation strongly suggests that this patient was immunized by bovine or porcine LH. Although studies of her urinary LH excretion and serum LH (by an interstitial cell bioassay system) suggest that at least some of her endogenous LH is not bound by the antibody, the possibility remains that this type of immunization may have important implications for the development and maintenance of normal adult pituitary-ovarian relationships.
Intrinsic resistance of oligodendrocytes to prion infection.	Within the CNS, the normal form of cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) is expressed on neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes. The contribution of these cell types to prion replication and pathogenesis is unclear. To assess the role of oligodendrocytes, we expressed PrP(C) under the control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter in mice lacking endogenous PrP(C). PrP(C) was detected in oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells but not in neurons and astrocytes. MBP-PrP mice never developed scrapie after intracerebral, intraperitoneal, or intraocular challenge with scrapie prions. Transgenic brains did not contain protease-resistant prion protein and did not transmit scrapie when inoculated into PrP(C)-overexpressing indicator mice. To investigate whether prion spread within the CNS depends on oligodendrocytic PrP(C), we implanted PrP(C)-overexpressing neuroectodermal grafts into MBP-PrP brains. After intraocular prion inoculation, none of the grafts showed spongiform encephalopathy or prion infectivity. Hence oligodendrocytes do not support cell-autonomous prion replication, establishment of subclinical disease, and neural spread of prions. Prion resistance sets oligodendrocytes aside from both neurons and astrocytes.
Thyroid storm due to inappropriate administration of a compounded thyroid hormone preparation successfully treated with plasmapheresis.	Thyroid storm (TS) is a rare life-threatening condition that is characterized by fever and altered mental status precipitated by endogenous or exogenous critical events, illness/injury, acute iodine load, and thyroid or non thyroid surgery. A large number of thyroid extracts are available and extensively used, even though they are not recommended clinically in hypothyroid or euthyroid patients. Consumption of such products can be dangerous and result in life-threatening TS. Here, we report a case of TS caused by inadvertent intake of very high dosages of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) in compounded thyroid extracts. Plasmapheresis may be considered an option for the management of exogenous TS.
Acute cough in infants: impact on families and pharmacists of contraindications of the Agence nationale de sécurité du médicament et des produits de santé (ANSM)]	Although commonplace and usually not serious, acute cough in the context of upper respiratory tract infection is a frequent reason for consultation and generates significant parental anxiety. Parents often request active drug intervention. Following the contraindications in infants of mucolytics, Hélicidine(®), antihistamines, and terpene-based suppositories, issued between 2010 and 2011 by the Agence nationale de sécurité du médicament et des produits de santé (ANSM), we wished to assess whether these contraindications were known by parents and applied in pharmacies.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease after treatment with human extracted growth hormone. A clinicopathological study]	This report describes the pathological changes observed in the brain of a 18-year-old patient who died with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) of the ataxic and panencephalopathic type. Clinically, the disease began at age 17 with a rapidly progressive cerebellar syndrome, associated with myoclonus and mental deterioration. Cranial CT scan and MRI showed minor abnormalities. EEG demonstrated non specific changes. The patient became progressively demented, bedridden and died 10 months after the onset. Nine years earlier, he had been operated upon for craniopharyngioma and subsequently treated with cadaver-derived human growth hormone. Post-mortem examination of the brain revealed mild diffuse atrophy. Histology showed congophilic amyloid plaques found in both gray and white matters of the cerebrum and cerebellum, associated with spongiosis, mainly in the basal ganglia and cerebellum, and gliosis. They were immunostained with antiprion protein antibody using the immunoperoxidase method on paraffin embedded sections. The clinical findings in this case were similar to those of other cases of human growth hormone-associated CJD. However, this case is unusual because of the great number of amyloid plaques, which have been only rarely found in previous reports.
