The use of fibrin glue in skin grafts and tissue-engineered skin replacements: a review.	Fibrin glue has been widely used as an adhesive in plastic and reconstructive surgery. This article reviews the advantages and disadvantages of its use with skin grafts and tissue-engineered skin substitutes. Fibrin glue has been shown to improve the percentage of skin graft take, especially when associated with difficult grafting sites or sites associated with unavoidable movement. Evidence also suggests improved hemostasis and a protective effect resulting in reduced bacterial infection. Fibrin, associated with fibronectin, has been shown to support keratinocyte and fibroblast growth both in vitro and in vivo, and may enhance cellular motility in the wound. When used as a delivery system for cultured keratinocytes and fibroblasts, fibrin glue may provide similar advantages to those proven with conventional skin grafts. Fibrin glue has also been shown to be a suitable delivery vehicle for exogenous growth factors that may in the future be used to accelerate wound healing.
Novel visible-light-induced photocurable tissue adhesive composed of multiply styrene-derivatized gelatin and poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate.	A novel photocurable tissue adhesive glue, which is composed of styrene-derivatized (styrenated) gelatin, poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEGDA), and carboxylated camphorquinone in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), was prepared. The prototype formulation suitable for arterial repair was determined based on the gel yield, degree of swelling, tissue adhesive strength, and breaking (or burst) strength in vitro. The formulated photocurable tissue adhesive glue with an appropriate viscosity was converted to a water-swollen gel within 1 min of visible light irradiation. The tissue adhesive glue, which was coated on a rat abdominal aorta incised with a pair of scissors, was immediately converted to a swollen gel upon subsequent irradiation with visible light, and concomitantly hemostasis was completed. Histological examination showed that the produced gel was tightly adhered to the artery shortly after photoirradiation. The gel gradually degraded with time and was completely absorbed within 4 weeks after treatment. These results indicate that the photocurable glue developed here may serve as a tissue adhesive glue applicable to vascular surgery.
The release profiles of intact and enzymatically digested hyaluronic acid from semisolid formulations using multi-layer membrane system.	A multi-layer membrane system was used to measure in vitro release of hydrophilic macromolecules such as hyaluronic acid (HA) from semisolid formulations. One enzymatically digested HA-derivative with molecular mass of 22 kDa (HA-D) and 1200 kDa intact HA (HA) were incorporated into three semisolid formulations: water-containing hydrophilic ointment (WHO), amphiphilic cream (AC) and water-containing wool wax alcohol ointment (WWO). Because of the high hydrophilic properties of HA-D and HA, the artificial model membranes consisted of collodion as the matrix and glycerol as the hydrophilic acceptor phase. The area under the concentration-time curve and the mean dissolution time were used as a quantitative parameter to characterise the rate and extent of release in vitro. This study showed that the HA-D and HA release as hydrophilic substances from WHO was higher than both from AC and WWO. It was observed that 83% of HA-D1 was released from WHO after 2 h; in contrast, only 10% was released from 2% HA from the same vehicle during the same time. In conclusion, the in vitro availability of enzymatically digested HA-D was higher for WHO than for the other formulations, AC and WWO. Similarly, the availability of HA-D was higher than that of HA from the same formulations.
Use of autologous fibrin-platelet glue and bone fragments in maxillofacial surgery.	The use of autologous cryo-platelet gel and bone fragments in maxillofacial surgery is described. Cryo-platelet gel has been used successfully in 5 patients who underwent surgery for maxillary or mandibular problems. The level of improvement was scored, arbitrarily, from 0 to 4. Very favourable results were seen in our 5 patients. The glue preparation is very easy and inexpensive and the glue creates excellent and stable hemostasis. From a general point of view, we add additional anecdotal evidence supporting the utility of fibrin-platelet glue in terms of reduced infections and length of hospital stay, which suggest the need for well planned and controlled trials to show if there is benefit and when and this treatment modality should be used in maxillofacial surgery.
Cord blood (CB) stem cells for wound repair. Preliminary report of 2 cases.	In 2 patients, to promote skin wound/lesion repair we used fibrin-platelet glue combined with HLA compatible (2 mismatches accepted) buffy coats containing CD 34+ cord blood cells. The fibrin platelet glue was prepared with autologous apheresis platelets and cryoprecipitate. The original product was divided into 3 and 4 aliquots respectively for a correspondent number of applications. At each application, the margins of the lesion were infiltrated with 3 ml of cord blood buffy coat, containing 30 x 10(3) CD 34+ cells. No graft versus tissue reaction was seen in our patients in a follow-up of 3-7 months. The level of improvement, scored arbitrarily from 0 to 4, was 3 and 4, respectively. Our conclusion is that the use of cord blood cells along with fibrin platelet glue is of clinical interest.
Production and use of fibrin glue at blood transfusion service of Bellaria-Maggiore Hospital Bologna.	FG is created by combining the two principal clotting factors found in plasma, fibrinogen and thrombin, whose natural function is to halt bleeding and seal tissues. We determined the safety, and efficacy of autologous FG by an automated device CryoSeal FS System. This procedure allows the blood transfusion center to produce a standardized product having similar characteristics of the pharmaceutical products available on the market and to produce a consistent amount of FG components from a single unit of autologous blood. The study involved a retrospective controlled evaluation of urologic patients compared with a control group operated of radical perineal prostatectomy. Blood loss difference is not significant. The hospital stay of the study group is shorter then the control group. The control group received more unit of homologous blood compared to the study group. This acquisition is suggestive for hypothetical blood saving.
Mechanical properties of biomimetic tissue adhesive based on the microbial transglutaminase-catalyzed crosslinking of gelatin.	Fibrin sealants are a type of soft tissue adhesive that employs biochemical reactions from the late stages of the blood coagulation cascade. Intrinsic to these adhesives are a structural protein and a transglutaminase crosslinking enzyme. We are investigating an alternative biomimetic adhesive based on gelatin and a calcium-independent microbial transglutaminase (mTG). Rheological measurements show that mTG catalyzes the conversion of gelatin solutions into hydrogels, and gel times are on the order of minutes depending on the gelatin type and concentration. Tensile static and dynamic loading of the adhesive hydrogels in bulk form demonstrated that the Young's modulus ranged from 15 to 120 kPa, and these bulk properties were comparable to those reported for hydrogels obtained from fibrin-based sealants. Lap-shear adhesion tests of porcine tissue were performed using a newly published American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standard for tissue adhesives. The gelatin-mTG adhesive bound the opposing tissues together with ultimate adhesive strengths of 12-23 kPa which were significantly higher than the strength observed for fibrin sealants. Even after failure, strands of the gelatin-mTG adhesive remained attached to both of the opposing tissues. These results suggest that gelatin-mTG adhesives may offer the benefits of fibrin sealants without the need for blood products.
Biomechanical study of medical hard tissue adhesive bonding butterfly fracture fragment in middle part of fresh human tibia]	A medical hard tissue adhesive, octyl-a-cyanoacrylate, was tested in 6 fresh human tibiae. A 90 degrees butter-fly fracture fragment was made in the middle part of tibia by bandsaw. The compressive stress, torsional stress and angular deflection were assessed before and after osteoectomy respectively. After adhesive bonding, the compressive stress, torsional stress and angular deflection were tested again. The butterfly fracture fagment decreased the bending strength, torsion strength, yielding strength of tibia bone. In torsion test, the torque of tibia before osteoectomy is greater than bonded tibia, the bonded tibia is greater than that of the unbonded tibia. In compression test, before adhesive bonding broken, the compressive curve slope of tibia before osteoectomy is greater than that of bonded tibia, the bonded tibia is greater than that of the unbonded tibia. In angular deflection test before adhesive bonding of broken,the curve slope of tibia before osteoectomy is not different from that of bonded tibia (P>0.05), the slope the bonded tibia is greater than the slope of unbonded tibia(P<0.05). The elastic modulus, rigidity coefficient and moment of area inertia show no statistical difference between the bonded tibia and intact tibia. The used of medical hard tissue adhesive to bond the fracture fragment could improve the bending strength, torsion strength, yielding strength of tibia bone. In operation, it can reduce the soft tissue injury when the fracture fragment is being fixed, and this will benefit bone healing.
Bioadhesive oesophageal bandages: protection against acid and pepsin injury.	The rate of acid and pepsin diffusion through solutions of sodium alginate was measured using in vitro techniques. Previous work has demonstrated that solutions of alginate may adhere to the oesophagus for up to 60 min; this work measured their ability to protect the oesophageal epithelial surface from damage caused by refluxed acid and pepsin. Franz diffusion cells were used to measure the rate of acid and pepsin diffusion through an alginate layer. The effect of the type of alginate, alginate concentration and depth of alginate applied were investigated. The rate of both acid and pepsin diffusion was significantly reduced (ANOVA analysis; P<0.05) in the presence of an alginate solution compared to the control. A 2% (w/v) alginate solution with a high guluronic acid component, in a layer of 0.44 mm depth, demonstrated the greatest reduction in acid diffusion with a permeation coefficient 14% than that of a control value. All three alginates demonstrated significant reductions in acid diffusion with both increasing depth and increasing concentration, as expected. Pepsin diffusion was also significantly reduced as the depth and concentration of applied alginate increased. This study demonstrates that an adhesive layer of alginate present within the oesophagus will limit the contact of refluxed acid and pepsin with the epithelial surface.
Buccal bioadhesive drug delivery--a promising option for orally less efficient drugs.	Rapid developments in the field of molecular biology and gene technology resulted in generation of many macromolecular drugs including peptides, proteins, polysaccharides and nucleic acids in great number possessing superior pharmacological efficacy with site specificity and devoid of untoward and toxic effects. However, the main impediment for the oral delivery of these drugs as potential therapeutic agents is their extensive presystemic metabolism, instability in acidic environment resulting into inadequate and erratic oral absorption. Parenteral route of administration is the only established route that overcomes all these drawbacks associated with these orally less/inefficient drugs. But, these formulations are costly, have least patient compliance, require repeated administration, in addition to the other hazardous effects associated with this route. Over the last few decades' pharmaceutical scientists throughout the world are trying to explore transdermal and transmucosal routes as an alternative to injections. Among the various transmucosal sites available, mucosa of the buccal cavity was found to be the most convenient and easily accessible site for the delivery of therapeutic agents for both local and systemic delivery as retentive dosage forms, because it has expanse of smooth muscle which is relatively immobile, abundant vascularization, rapid recovery time after exposure to stress and the near absence of langerhans cells. Direct access to the systemic circulation through the internal jugular vein bypasses drugs from the hepatic first pass metabolism leading to high bioavailability. Further, these dosage forms are self-administrable, cheap and have superior patient compliance. Developing a dosage form with the optimum pharmacokinetics is a promising area for continued research as it is enormously important and intellectually challenging. With the right dosage form design, local environment of the mucosa can be controlled and manipulated in order to optimize the rate of drug dissolution and permeation. A rational approach to dosage form design requires a complete understanding of the physicochemical and biopharmaceutical properties of the drug and excipients. Advances in experimental and computational methodologies will be helpful in shortening the processing time from formulation design to clinical use. This paper aims to review the developments in the buccal adhesive drug delivery systems to provide basic principles to the young scientists, which will be useful to circumvent the difficulties associated with the formulation design.
Properties of pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes with soft adhesives to human skin and their mechanism.	The use of soft adhesives in the manufacture of pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes has recently increased. The dermal peeling force of adhesive tapes with soft adhesives was studied.
Behaviour of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line grown in different media and on different chemically modified substrates.	Among the parameters that can be tested in experiments on neuronal cell culture the use of different culture media and substrates represents a powerful assay to influence cell adhesion and differentiation. In this work, plasma-enhanced-chemical vapour depositions (PE-CVD) from acrylic acid and allylamine vapours have been performed to deposit coatings bearing oxygen (O)- and nitrogen (N)-containing functional groups on polyethylenetherephtalate (PET) surface. Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells were grown on plasma modified substrates and in presence of media containing different amount of fetal calf serum (FCS) or in serum-free medium containing cAMP. Our results showed that N-containing substrates improved cell adhesion, while the neurites sprouting was influenced by cell culture media. Interestingly, the presence of carboxylic groups on the modified surface can influence the expression of a differentiation marker, neurofilament-200 (NF-H), in cells grown in serum-containing media.
Development of a novel glue consisting of naturally-derived biomolecules: citric acid and human serum albumin.	A novel glue consisting of human serum albumin (HSA) and citric acid derivative (CAD) was developed where the glue is named as CAD-A glue. In this adhesive, CAD works as a crosslinking reagent of HSA. For preparing crosslinking reagent CAD, using citric acid as a starting material, three carboxyl groups of a citric acid were modified with N-hydroxysuccinimide in the presence of 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethyl aminopropyl) carbodiimide hydrochloride. From 1H-NMR spectrum, CAD with three active ester groups in a molecule was successfully synthesized with a high yield (more than 80%). The boding time of CAD-A glue to collagen-based casing was saturated within 15 minutes. The bonding strength of this glue to collagen-based casings increased with increasing of HSA concentration. The maximum bonding strength of CAD-A glue was a slightly low level compared to the bonding strength of cyanoacrylate adhesive and was 9 times higher than that of fibrin glue. The CAD-A glue showed excellent biocompatibility and high ability of wound closure similar to that of cyanoacrylate-based adhesive when glues were applied to the mouse skin. These results suggested that this developed adhesive had both tissue compatibility and bonding strength for use in clinical field.
Photo cross-linkable Biodendrimers as ophthalmic adhesives for central lacerations and penetrating keratoplasties.	Biodendrimer-based hydrogel adhesives were derived from biocompatible building blocks and poly(ethylene glycol) of 3,400, 10,000 and 20,000 g/mole. The leaking pressures were determined for these adhesives when used to seal 4.1-mm central lacerations and penetrating keratoplasties (PKPs) in enucleated porcine eyes.
Development and evaluation of the Sinomenine transdermal patch.	Sinomenine transdermal patch was prepared and its properties were studied. The patches were produced by salivation method. The releasing rate in vitro of the patch was determined by HPLC. Peel test was used to evaluate the adhesion. Acute skin irritation test was performed in comparison with formalin (0.8%) by using mouse model. The Sinomenine TDDS Patch was prepared. The releasing rate in vitro followed the Higuchi equation (r>0.99), the releasing amount was beyond 90% in 24h. The peel adhesion to steel (N/25 mm) is 10 or above. The skin irritation tests showed negligible erythema and edema. The Sinomenine transdermal patch was prepared successfully and it may be beneficial for topical use.
Head glands of Monogenoidea: morphology, functionality, and potentialities in industrial production of surgery bioadhesives.	A review of the structure and functionality of monogenoidean head glands is provided. The unique features of the biochemical methods used by parasites to attach to, or detach from, fish hosts are highlighted. The potential use of monogenoidean cephalic secretions in the surgical field, and particularly in the production of bioadhesives, is suggested and critically supported by comparison with other available hemostatic agents.
Adhesive use in oral and maxillofacial surgery.	Presently, tissue adhesives and sealants have limited use in oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures. Skin closure occurs regularly with cyanoacrylate adhesives. Sealing of dural tears in conjunction with dural closure has been shown to be very successful. With the development of more head and neck reconstructive procedures and cosmetic procedures, demand will increase for better surgical adhesives. Clinical trials are beginning for newly developed adhesives with the chemical characterizations, the safe reabsorptive profile, and the adhesive strength necessary to benefit oral and maxillofacial surgery patients in the near future. Adhesives for bone fixation, while in early development, also show a promising chemical profile and will be of significant benefit to oral and maxillofacial surgical patients.
Genipin-crosslinked fibrin hydrogels as a potential adhesive to augment intervertebral disc annulus repair.	Treatment of damaged intervertebral discs is a significant clinical problem and, despite advances in the repair and replacement of the nucleus pulposus, there are few effective strategies to restore defects in the annulus fibrosus. An annular repair material should meet three specifications: have a modulus similar to the native annulus tissue, support the growth of disc cells, and maintain adhesion to tissue under physiological strain levels. We hypothesized that a genipin crosslinked fibrin gel could meet these requirements. Our mechanical results showed that genipin crosslinked fibrin gels could be created with a modulus in the range of native annular tissue. We also demonstrated that this material is compatible with the in vitro growth of human disc cells, when genipin:fibrin ratios were 0.25:1 or less, although cell proliferation was slower and cell morphology more rounded than for fibrin alone. Finally, lap tests were performed to evaluate adhesion between fibrin gels and pieces of annular tissue. Specimens created without genipin had poor handling properties and readily delaminated, while genipin crosslinked fibrin gels remained adhered to the tissue pieces at strains exceeding physiological levels and failed at 15-30%. This study demonstrated that genipin crosslinked fibrin gels show promise as a gap-filling adhesive biomaterial with tunable material properties, yet the slow cell proliferation suggests this biomaterial may be best suited as a sealant for small annulus fibrosus defects or as an adhesive to augment large annulus repairs. Future studies will evaluate degradation rate, fatigue behaviors, and long-term biocompatibility.
Thermal reversal of polyvalent choline phosphate, a multivalent universal biomembrane adhesive.	Multivalent macromolecular associations are widely observed in biological systems and are increasingly being utilized in bioengineering, nanomedicine, and biomaterial applications. Control over such associations usually demands an ability to reverse the multivalent binding. While in principle this can be done with binding site competitive inhibitors, dissociation is difficult in practice due to limited site accessibility when the macromolecule is bound. We demonstrate here efficient binding reversal of multivalent linear copolymers that adhere to any mammalian cell via the universal mechanism based on choline phosphate (CP) groups binding to phosphatidyl choline (PC)-containing biomembranes. Using a smart linear polymer exhibiting a lower critical solution temperature (LCST), we take advantage of the thermal contraction of the polymer above the LCST, which reduces accessibility of the CP groups to cell membrane PC lipids. The polymer construct can then desorb from the cell surface, reversing all effects of multivalent polymer adhesion on the cell.
The robust hydrogel hierarchically assembled from a pH sensitive peptide amphiphile based on silk fibroin.	Supramolecular polymers can be formed by self-assembly of designed subunits to yield highly ordered materials. In this paper, hierarchically structured materials, from molecules to nanofibers to macroscopical hydrogel, were fabricated by pH-induced assembly of C(12)-GAGAGAGY, a peptide amphiphile (PA) based on silk fibroin. Due to the different acid dissociation constants of the carboxyl and phenolic hydroxyl groups on tyrosine residue (Y), the PAs showed unique pH sensitive assembly and aggregation behaviors. It was found that not only the molecular-scale assemblies of these PAs gradually changed from cylindrical nanofibers to nanoribbons with the decreasing of pH value from 11 to 8 but also most of nanoribbons aggregated into parallel bundles in such a case. Further decrease of pH value resulted in a hierarchically structured robust and plastic hydrogel, of which the rheological moduli reached around 10(5) Pa. Moreover, noodle-like hydrogel fibers with bundles of nanoribbons aggregated parallel along the long axis in them could be steadily prepared under shear force. Taking the pH-sensitive reversible sol-gel transition, high modulus and plasticity into account, the hydrogel is believed to have significant potential applications in tissue engineering or as the biocompatible adhesives.
Monosize poly(ethylcyanoacrylate) microspheres: preparation and degradation properties.	Monosize, biodegradable poly(ethylcyanoacrylate) (PECA) microspheres in the size range of 0.5-2.5 microns were prepared by a relatively new polymerization technique, the so-called dispersion polymerization. The polymerizations were performed by using a stabilizer system containing a poly(ethyleneoxide)/poly(propyleneoxide) (PEO/PPO) copolymer and dextran in the aqueous HCl solution as a dispersion medium. Phosphoric acid was used as a catalyst, stabilizer, monomer concentrations, and the pH of dispersion medium on the monomer conversion, average size, and size distribution of the PECA microspheres were studied. The resultant microsphere size was mainly controlled by PEO/PPO copolymer and HCl concentrations. To explain the degradation mechanism, the degradation of monosize PECA microspheres was studied in in vitro conditions. The partially degraded beads were observed by electron microscopy. The results indicated that the degradation of monosize PECA microspheres occurred mainly by surface erosion.
Surgical tissue adhesives in otolaryngology-head and neck surgery.	The primary surgical tissue adhesives used in otolaryngology-head and neck surgery include the cyanoacrylate derivatives and the fibrin tissue adhesives. The cyanoacrylate derivatives are effective for superficial skin closure. Use of this material below the level of the skin can result in acute and chronic inflammation and tissue necrosis. Fibrin tissue adhesives can be used for wound closure, tissue sealing, and hemostasis. Drawbacks noted with the fibrin tissue adhesives include method of preparation, relatively low binding strength, and variable resorption time. This article discusses the properties, methods of preparation, and clinical indications of the cyanoacrylate derivatives and fibrin tissue adhesives.
Plasma copolymer surfaces of acrylic acid/1,7 octadiene: surface characterisation and the attachment of ROS 17/2.8 osteoblast-like cells.	The purpose of this study was: (a) to examine the effect of plasma-gas composition on plasma polymer oxygen/carbon (O/C) ratio, functional group composition and stability in water, and then (b) to examine cell attachment to surfaces containing different concentrations of O/C and functional groups. Oxygen-functionalised surfaces were deposited by means of the plasma copolymerisation of acrylic acid/1,7-octadiene. The use of a diluent hydrocarbon allowed the deposition of surfaces with a range of O/C concentrations. Plasma copolymer surfaces were characterised by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Changes in functional group composition with % acrylic acid monomer and the non-dispersive and dispersive parts of the surface energy of these plasma copolymers were measured. The solubility of the plasma copolymers was assessed by means of XPS. The degree of attachment of ROS 17/2.8 osteoblast-like cells to plasma copolymer surfaces deemed to be 'stable' in aqueous medium was measured. Tissue culture polystyrene (TCPS) was included as a control. Attachment was found to be greatest to the plasma copolymer surface with an O/C of 0.11. This surface had a carboxylic acid concentration of ca. 3%. Attachment did not correlate with increased surface wettability (i.e. the non-dispersive component of the surface energy).
