Transformed Lepidopteran insect cells: new sources of recombinant human tissue plasminogen activator.	Stable transformation was used to generate a cloned insect cell line (Bm5 silkmoth cells) over-expressing human tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). This cell line expressed 135 microg/mL single chain tPA in serum-free medium in static culture with a maximum specific activity of 120 IU/microg. In serum-containing medium, this line expressed 160 microg/mL of combined single-chain tPA, two-chain tPA, and a higher molecular weight SDS-stable tPA complex in suspension cultures with a maximum specific activity of 255 IU/microg. Approximately 100 copies of the tPA cDNA were randomly integrated into each Bm5 cell. For secretion of recombinant tPA from Bm5 cells, the native human tPA signal peptide is as effectively recognized as an insect specific signal peptide derived from a silkmoth chorion gene. Finally, stably transformed polyclonal populations of Bm5, High Five, and Sf21 cells expressing tPA were generated and compared for relative tPA expression.
Functional and structural consequences of aromatic residue substitutions within the kringle-2 domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator.	Aromatic amino acid residues within kringle domains play important roles in the structural stability and ligand-binding properties of these protein modules. In previous investigations, it has been demonstrated that the rigidly conserved Trp25 is primarily involved in stabilizing the conformation of the kringle-2 domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (K2tpA), whereas Trp63, Trp74, and Tyr76 function in omega-amino acid ligand binding, and, to varying extents, in stabilizing the native folding of this kringle module. In the current study, the remaining aromatic residues of K2tPA, viz., Tyr2, Phe3, Tyr9, Tyr35, Tyr52, have been subjected to structure-function analysis via site-directed mutagenesis studies. Ligand binding was not significantly influenced by conservative amino acid mutations at these residues, but a radical mutation at Tyr35 destabilized the interaction of the ligand with the variant kringle. In addition, as reflected in the values of the melting temperatures, changes at Tyr9 and Tyr52 generally destabilized the native structure of K2tPA to a greater extent than changes at Tyr2, Phe3, and Tyr35. Taken together, results to date show that, in concert with predictions from the crystal structure of K2tpA, ligand binding appears to rely most on the integrity of Trp63 and Trp74, and aromaticity at Tyr76. With regard to aromatic amino acids, kringle folding is most dependent on Tyr9, Trp25, Tyr52, Trp63, and Tyr76. As yet, no obvious major roles have been uncovered for Tyr2, Phe3, or Tyr35 in K2tpA.
Arginine 260 of the amino-terminal domain of NR1 subunit is critical for tissue-type plasminogen activator-mediated enhancement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor signaling.	Tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) has been involved in both physiological and pathological glutamatergic-dependent processes, such as synaptic plasticity, seizure, trauma, and stroke. In a previous study, we have shown that the proteolytic activity of tPA enhances the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated signaling in neurons (Nicole, O., Docagne, F., Ali, C., Margaill, I., Carmeliet, P., MacKenzie, E. T., Vivien, D., and Buisson, A. (2001) Nat. Med. 7, 59-64). Here, we show that tPA forms a direct complex with the amino-terminal domain (ATD) of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor and cleaves this subunit at the arginine 260. Furthermore, point mutation analyses show that arginine 260 is necessary for both tPA-induced cleavage of the ATD of NR1 and tPA-induced potentiation of NMDA receptor signaling. Thus, tPA is the first binding protein described so far to interact with the ATD of NR1 and to modulate the NMDA receptor function.
Application of PSD-MALDI-TOF-MS to protein identification]	To identify protein spots on two dimentional protein electrophoresis (2DE) by post-source decay (PSD) technique associated with library search.
The kringle domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator inhibits in vivo tumor growth.	The two-kringle domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) has previously been shown to contain anti-angiogenesis activity. In this study, we explored the potential in vivo anti-tumor effects of the recombinant kringle domain (TK1-2) of human t-PA. Anti-tumor effects of purified Pichia-driven TK1-2 were examined in nude mice models by subcutaneous implantation of human lung (A-549) and colon (DLD-1, HCT-116) cancer cell lines. Mice bearing the tumors were injected with PBS or purified TK1-2 (30 mg/kg) i.p. every day for 22 days. TK1-2 treatment suppressed the A-549, DLD-1, and HCT-116 tumor growth by 85.3%, 52.4%, and 62.5%, respectively. Immunohistological examination of the tumor tissues showed that TK1-2 treatment decreased the vessel density and also the expression of angiogenesis-related factors including angiogenin, VEGF, alpha-SMA, vWF, and TNF-alpha, and increased the apoptotic fraction of cells. TK1-2 neither inhibited in vitro growth of these cancer cells nor affected t-PA-mediated fibrin clot lysis. These results suggest that TK1-2 inhibits the tumor growth by suppression of angiogenesis without interfering with fibrinolysis.
Determining the optimum residual moisture in lyophilized protein pharmaceuticals.	A general concern in the lyophilization of protein pharmaceuticals is how dry a product should be in order to maintain its stability during storage. This paper presents our exploratory studies on determining if there is an optimal residual moisture content for lyophilized recombinant protein products. The proteins used in this study were methionyl human growth hormone (met-hGH) and tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA). The amount of water adsorbed on each protein can be determined and approximated as a monolayer by the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller method. The result was in good agreement with the theoretical value calculated from the total number of strong polar groups in the molecule without regard to the conformation of the protein. This approach suggests that each protein may have a minimum moisture content that is necessary to shield the polar groups, and that over-drying will lead to exposure of these groups. The effect of residual moisture content on the stability of tPA in lyophilized excipient-free powder was studied. Samples that were dried to a water content below the calculated monolayer exhibited opalescence upon reconstitution, while those that were dried to either monolayer or multilayer water content tended to show a greater loss in biological stability upon storage under temperature stress conditions. The results of our studies reveal that the generally accepted concept "the drier the better" may not be appropriate for tPA. An optimum residual moisture content is required to balance the physical stability and the biological stability. These observations may apply to other protein products as well.
Solution structure of the fibrin binding finger domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator determined by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance.	The amino acid sequence of the first domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) includes eight residues that are highly conserved in the type 1 finger domains found in human fibronectin. A construct comprising 50 residues from this finger domain of t-PA has been expressed and its solution structure has been determined by two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. A total of 782 experimental restraints consisting of 723 interproton distances derived from nuclear Overhauser effect measurements, 43 torsion angles, and 16 hydrogen bond restraints were used as the input for dynamical simulated annealing structure calculations. Twenty-eight structures were obtained that satisfied the experimental data with no single distance violation greater than 0.3 A. The average atomic root-mean-square distribution for the backbone atoms of the final structures was 0.41 (+/- 0.13) A for the well defined part of the structure (residues 4 to 47). The overall fold of the t-PA finger domain shows a striking similarity to that of the seventh type 1 repeat of human fibronectin with the side-chains of conserved residues lying in similar conformations. One significant difference between the two molecules is that hydrophobic residues cover the exposed surface of the principal beta-sheet region in the t-PA finger domain. It is suggested that one face of this region may interact with parts of the complete t-PA protein.
Disulfide pairing of the recombinant kringle-2 domain of tissue plasminogen activator produced in Escherichia coli.	The kringle-2 domain of tissue plasminogen activator, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli (Wilhelm, O.G., Jaskunas, S.R., Vlahos, C.J., and Bang, N.U. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 14606-14611), was internally radiolabeled using [35S]methionine-cysteine. Following refolding and isolation, the labeled polypeptide was further purified by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The purified kringle-2 domain was digested with thermolysin, and the resulting peptides were purified by high performance liquid chromatography. Five major peptides containing 35S were obtained. Amino acid sequence analysis showed that these peptides represented various cleavage products containing one or more of the following disulfides: Cys180-Cys261, Cys201-Cys243, Cys232-Cys256 (sequence numbering based on Pennica et al. (Pennica, D., Holmes, W.E., Kohr, W.J., Hakins, R.N., Vehar, G. A., Ward, C.A., Bennett, W.F., Yelverton E., Seeburg, P.H., Heynecker, H.L., Goeddel, E.V., and Collen, D. (1983) Nature 301, 214-221)). These results confirm that the refolding methodology used produced kringle-2 with the predicted disulfide linkage and, thus, yielded material suitable for structural and functional studies.
Synergism between tissue-type plasminogen activator and a genetically engineered variant lacking the finger domain, the growth factor domain and the first kringle domain.	A modified variant of human tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) lacking the finger domain (F), the growth factor domain (G) and the first kringle domain (K1), has an extended plasma half-life in vivo, compared to that of t-PA. When the variant (denoted K2P) was tested in vitro for its ability to lyse human plasma clots we found that the activity was characterized by a time lag phase and a sigmoidal dose-response curve. However, an attenuation of the lag phase in vitro was observed both when K2P was mixed with t-PA in a w/w ratio of 4:1 and when K2P was allowed to lyse a clot that had been pre-exposed to t-PA i.e. submitted to a limited plasmic digestion. Dosis that in vitro caused 50% lysis within 6 h were calculated from individual dose-response curves and were for K2P, t-PA and K2P/t-PA (4:1 w/w) 540 ng/ml, 360 ng/ml and 310 ng/ml, respectively. These results indicated a synergistic effect between K2P and t-PA. However, the data from individual dose-response curves showed that the effect of the K2P/t-PA mixture never was better than that of t-PA alone, and the synergistic effect in vitro is therefore considered to be of limited use. The thrombolytic activity in vivo was evaluated in a rabbit jugular vein thrombus model. Despite the lag phase observed in vitro, K2P was approximately 3 times as effective as t-PA in vivo (bolus injection). The thrombolytic effect of K2P was further potentiated when it was administered together with a small amount of t-PA (4:1 w/w).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Urokinase separation from cell culture broth of a human kidney cell line.	A single step ion-exchange chromatography on a sulfo-propyl (SP)- Sepharose column was performed to separate both the high molecular weight (HMW)- and low molecular weight (LMW)- forms of enzymatically active urokinase type plasminogen activator from human kidney (HT1080) cell culture media. The level of urokinase secreted by the cell line reached to about 145 Plough units/ml culture broth within 48 h of cultivation. The conditioned cell culture media was applied directly to the column without any prior concentration steps. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the column eluates in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate showed that the cell line secretes three forms of two-chain high molecular weight (HMW) urokinase of molecular weights (M(r)) 64,000, 60,900 and 55,000. In addition, two low molecular weight (LMW) forms of M(r) 22,000 and 20,000; proteolytic cleavage products of HMW, were also found. The HMW and LMW forms had intrinsic plasminogen dependent proteolytic activity as judged by zymographic analysis. The specific activity of the pooled peak fractions increased (approximately 93-fold) to values as high as 1481 Plough units/ mg protein. Both HMW as well as LMW forms were obtained in significantly high yields.
Two conserved regions within the tissue-type plasminogen activator gene promoter mediate regulation by brain-derived neurotrophic factor.	Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) has recently been identified as a modulator of neuronal plasticity and can initiate conversion of the pro-form of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) into its mature form. BDNF also increases t-PA gene expression implicating t-PA as a downstream effector of BDNF function. Here we demonstrate that BDNF-mediated induction of t-PA mRNA requires an increase in t-PA gene transcription. Reporter constructs harboring 9.5 kb of the human t-PA promoter conferred BDNF-responsiveness in transfected mouse primary cortical neurons. This regulation was recapitulated in HEK 293 cells coexpressing the TrkB neurotrophin receptor. t-PA promoter-deletion analysis revealed the presence of two BDNF-responsive domains, one located between -3.07 and -2.5 kb and the other within the proximal promoter. The upstream region was shown to confer BDNF responsiveness in a TrkB-dependent manner when attached to a heterologous promoter. We also identify homologous regions within the murine and bovine t-PA gene promoters and demonstrate that the equivalent upstream murine sequence functions as a BDNF-responsive enhancer when inserted 5' of the human proximal t-PA promoter. Hence, BDNF-mediated induction of t-PA transcription relies on conserved modular promoter elements including a novel upstream BDNF-responsive domain and the proximal t-PA gene promoter.
Identification of fibronectin type I domains as amyloid-binding modules on tissue-type plasminogen activator and three homologs.	The serine protease tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), a key enzyme in hemostasis, is activated by protein aggregates with amyloid-like properties. tPA is implicated in various pathologies, including amyloidoses. A major task is to further elucidate the mechanisms of amyloid pathology. We here show that the fibronectin type I domain of tPA mediates the interaction with amyloid protein aggregates. We found that in contrast to full-length tPA, a deletion-mutant of tPA, lacking the first three N-terminal domains (including the fibronectin type I domain), fails to activate in response to amyloid protein aggregates. Using recombinantly produced domains of tPA in direct binding assays, we subsequently mapped the amyloid-binding region to the fibronectin type I domain. This domain co-localized with congophilic plaques in brain sections from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Fibronectin type I domains from homologous proteases factor XII, hepatocyte growth factor activator and from the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin also bound to aggregated amyloidogenic peptides. Finally, we demonstrated that the isolated fibronectin type I domain inhibits amyloid-induced aggregation of blood platelets. The identification of the fibronectin type I domain as an amyloid-binding module provides new insights into the (patho-) physiological role of tPA and the homologous proteins which may offer new targets for intervention in amyloid pathology.
Tissue plasminogen activator has an O-linked fucose attached to threonine-61 in the epidermal growth factor domain.	An unusual type of glycosylation has been observed for tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA). The monosaccharide fucose is glycosidically linked to threonine-61 in the epidermal growth factor region of t-PA. The presence of O-linked fucose was demonstrated by carbohydrate analysis and mass spectrometry of tryptic and chymotryptic peptides that contain this site. The susceptibility of the fucose residue to alpha-fucosidase indicated that it was in the alpha-anomeric configuration. Fucosylation of threonine-61 was observed in t-PA isolated from the Bowes melanoma cell line and from recombinant expression systems using Chinese hamster ovary or human embryonic kidney cells. Fucosylation of the homologous residue in prourokinase has also been reported recently. Our results indicate that this novel type of glycosylation may be common to the epidermal growth factor domains found in coagulation and fibrinolytic proteins and, therefore, suggest that the modification may have functional significance.
Thermodynamics of ligand binding and denaturation for His64 mutants of tissue plasminogen activator kringle-2 domain.	The contribution of His64 to the function and stability of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) kringle-2 domain (His244 in t-PA numbering) has been studied by using microcalorimetric methods to compare the ligand binding and thermal denaturation behavior of wild-type kringle-2 and mutants having His64 replaced with Tyr or Phe. This site was examined because modeling studies suggested that the His64 side chain could play an important role in ligand binding by forming an ion-pair with the carboxylate of the ligand, L-lysine. Kringle-2 domains were expressed by secretion of the 174-263 portion of t-PA in E. coli and purified as previously described for the wild-type domain. Both mutant proteins retain affinity for L-lysine, although reduced three- to four-fold relative to wild-type, demonstrating that His64 does not interact with the ligand carboxylate through an ion-pair interaction or by hydrogen bonding. The H64Y substitution does result in an altered specificity of the lysine binding site with the mutant domain having greatest affinity for a ligand of 6.8 A chain length, whereas the wild-type domain prefers an 8.8 A long ligand. For both wild-type and mutant, the binding of the optimal chain length ligand is dominated by enthalpic effects (delta H = -6,000 to -7,000 cal/mol) and T delta S accounts for less than 15% of delta G. In addition, the H64Y mutant differs from wild-type in the effect of ligand alpha-amino group modification on binding affinity. Based on examination of the x-ray structure recently determined for wild-type kringle-2, the specificity changes accompanying the H64Y substitution probably result from changes in side chain interactions in the lysine binding site. Thermal denaturation experiments show that the H64Y mutant is also more stable than the wild-type protein with the difference in stabilization free energy (delta delta G) equal to 2.7 kcal/mol at 25 degrees C and pH 3. The increased stability of the mutant appears to be related to the difference in hydrophobicity between His and Tyr.
A novel variant of t-PA resistant to plasminogen activator inhibitor-1; expression in CHO cells based on in silico experiments.	Resistance to PAI-1 is a factor which confers clinical benefits in thrombolytic therapy. The only US FDA approved PAI-1 resistant drug is Tenecteplase®. Deletion variants of t-PA have the advantage of fewer disulfide bonds in addition to higher plasma half lives. A new variant was developed by deletion of the first three domains in t-PA in addition to substitution of KHRR 128-131 amino acids with AAAA in truncated t-PA. The specific activity of this new variant, 570 IU/μg, was found to be similar to those found in full length t-PA (Alteplase®), 580 IU/μg. A 65% and 85% residual activity after inhibition by rPAI-1 was observed for full length and truncated-mutant form, respectively. This new variant as the first PAI-1 resistant truncated t-PA may offer more advantages in clinical conditions in which high PAI-1 levels makes the thrombolytic system prone to re-occlusion.
Systematic investigation of the effect of lyophilizate collapse on pharmaceutically relevant proteins, part 2: stability during storage at elevated temperatures.	The objective of this work was to investigate the effect of lyophilizate collapse on the stability of freeze-dried protein pharmaceuticals. In the first part of this study, it was shown that collapse has no negative impact either on the properties of the freeze-dried cake or on protein stability [Schersch K, Betz O, Garidel P, Muehlau S, Bassarab S, Winter G. 2010. J Pharm Sci 99(5):2256-2278]. In order to further investigate the effect of collapse, its impact on lyophilizate's long-term stability during storage at various temperatures was evaluated at 2°C-8°C, 25°C, 40°C, and 50°C for up to 6 months. Collapsed and noncollapsed lyophilizates of identical formulation and comparable residual moisture levels containing the following proteins were investigated: (1) a monoclonal immunoglobulin G antibody, (2) tissue-type plasminogen activator, and (3) the sensitive model protein l-lactic dehydrogenase. Protein stability was monitored using a comprehensive set of analytical techniques assessing the formation of soluble and insoluble aggregates, the biological activity, and the protein conformation. The properties of the freeze-dried cake--namely, the glass transition temperature, excipient crystallinity, reconstitution behavior, and the residual moisture content, were analyzed as well. Full protein stability in collapsed cakes was observed, and even enhanced protein stability was detected in collapsed cakes with regard to key stability-indicating parameters.
Endothelial cell proteases: physiological role and regulation.	Endothelial cell-derived proteases can be classified according to their physiological role. The proteases involved in extracellular matrix degradation are important in endothelial cell migration and thereby in angiogenesis. They include the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and the metalloproteases, collagenases, gelatinases and stromelysin. uPA secreted from endothelial cells remains associated with the cell membrane, on specific receptors localized in the vicinity of the receptors for plasminogen. This favours the local activation of plasminogen into plasmin. Plasmin, generated on the cell surface, is fully active as it is not inhibited by alpha 2-antiplasmin. Plasmin acts directly by degrading some components of the extracellular matrix and indirectly by activating the prometalloproteases. Secretion of PAI by migrating cells is generally stimulated by the same factors that induce uPA secretion, limiting the degradation of the matrix to the pericellular path. The degradation of the fibrin clot involves the tissue-type plasminogen activator tPA, which like the uPA activates plasminogen to plasmin. This system is also regulated by two different mechanisms. On the one hand, fibrin itself favours its own degradation by formation of a ternary complex, fibrin-plasminogen-tPA, in which the affinity of tPA for plasminogen is markedly increased, as compared to the affinity of unbound tPA. In addition, plasmin generated on the clot is protected from inhibition by alpha 2-antiplasmin. On the other hand, as for uPA, tPA is inhibited by PAI-1. The importance of the regulation of this system is illustrated by the thrombotic risk observed when there is either a decrease in tPA or an increase in PAI-1, and inversely by haemorrhages in the case of increase in tPA.
Thrombolytic agents in development.	The quest continues for thrombolytic agents with a higher thrombolytic potency, specific thrombolytic activity and/or a better fibrin selectivity. Several lines of research towards improvement of thrombolytic agents are being explored, including the construction of mutants and variants of plasminogen activators (PAs), chimaeric PAs, conjugates of PAs with monoclonal antibodies, and PAs from animal or bacterial origin. Some of these new thrombolytic agents have shown promise in animal models of venous or arterial thrombosis and in pilot clinical studies. Such molecules include numerous mutants of tissue-type PA (t-PA) with prolonged in vivo half-life and/or resistance to protease inhibitors, and chimaeric PAs consisting of different regions of t-PA and of urokinase-type PA (u-PA). Several molecular forms of the thrombolytic substance in the saliva of the vampire bat have been characterised and cloned. Vampire bat PA exhibits 85% homology to human t-PA but lacks kringle 2 and the plasmin-sensitive cleavage site. A thrombolytic enzyme of 203 amino acids is present in the venom of a southern copperhead snake. This polypeptide, termed fibrolase, is now produced by recombinant technology. Fibrolase does not activate plasminogen or protein C, but directly degrades the alpha and beta chains of fibrin and fibrinogen. Recombinant staphylokinase is not an enzyme, but it forms a 1:1 stoichiometric complex with plasminogen, which becomes active after conversion of plasminogen to plasmin. It is a potent and highly fibrin specific thrombolytic agent in animals and patients.
Recombinant variants of tissue-type plasminogen activator containing amino acid substitutions in the fibronectin finger-like domain and the kringle 1 domain.	Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) is a fibrin-specific agent which is used to treat acute myocardial infarction. Pharmacokinetically, t-PA is characterized by a rapid clearance from the circulation. In a previous study, we constructed variant forms of t-PA with genetic modifications at the fibronectin finger-like domain (finger domain) or at the kringle 1 domain (K1 domain). The finger modified variant, t-PA N37S.S38V.G39V.R40E. A41F.Q42S had about a 6.0-fold higher plasma half-life in vivo than wild-type t-PA. Two variants with modifications in the K1 domain, t-PA G161R.K162R.S165W and t-PA N115P, showed an improved kinetic parameters and a 2.2-fold higher plasma half-life in vivo than wild-type t-PA, respectively. To create a recombinant variant of t-PA with a higher enzymatic activity and a further prolonged half-life in vivo, the genes containing each modifications were joined and expressed in animal cells. The two variants, t-PA N37S.S38V.G39V.R40E.A41F.Q42S.G16 1R.K162R.S165W and t-PA N37S.S38V.G39V.R40E.A41F.Q42S.N11 5P, were purified from conditioned media and their biochemical, pharmacokinetic and thrombolytic profiles were investigated. Although the variant t-PA N37S.S38V.G39V.R40E.A41F.Q42S.G16 1R.K162R.S165W demonstrated an impaired enzymatic activity compared to the wild-type t-PA, the half-life of the variant, t-PA N37S.S38V.G39V.R40E.A41F.Q42S. N115P, following intravenous bolus injection in rabbits was considerably longer than that of finger-domain modified variants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The specific roles of finger and kringle 2 domains of tissue-type plasminogen activator during in vitro fibrinolysis.	The specific roles of the finger (F) and kringle 2 (K2) domains of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) were quantified with regard to fibrin binding and kinetic parameters for plasminogen activation by employing domain-deletion variants. On an intact fibrin clot, active site-blocked 125I-t-PA has a dissociation constant (Kd) of 0.36 +/- 0.08 microM and a single binding site per fibrin monomer (n = 1.1 +/- 0.1). Deletion of the K2 domain results in a 3-fold increase of the Kd (1.1 +/- 0.2 microM) and a 2-fold increase of the binding sites per fibrin monomer (n = 2.0 +/- 0.3). Deletion of the F domain results in nonsaturable binding with high Kd (3.2 +/- 0.6 microM). These results indicate that the high affinity binding of t-PA to intact fibrin is the resultant of the cooperation of two low affinity binding sites assembled on intact t-PA. Furthermore, fibrin clot lysis experiments were performed, using polymerized fibrin and plasminogen. Enzymatic activity of t-PA (variants) was assessed by following the decrease in turbidity of the polymerized fibrin. Intact recombinant t-PA exhibited a Michaelis constant for plasminogen activation (Km) of 37 +/- 2 nM. Deletion of either the K2 or F domain results in an increase of the Km for plasminogen of 4- and 16-fold, respectively. We interpret these kinetic parameters in terms of the ternary complex model: binding of t-PA to fibrin, mediated simultaneously by both the F and K2 domain, is essential for a correct orientation of the enzyme on the fibrin polymer to yield the optimal "Km-driven" stimulation of fibrin on the activation of plasminogen. The different potencies of various deletion mutants in a plasma clot are explained by decreased affinity of the enzymes both for fibrin and for the substrate plasminogen.
Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)]	Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) are the most important factors involved in the regulation of blood fibrinolysis. t-PA converts zymogen plasminogen to plasmin on the surface of endothelial cells to maintain blood fluidity and on the surface of the thrombus to efficiently lyse the thrombus. In circulating plasma, PAI-1 inactivates t-PA by forming an equimolar complex with t-PA to suppress the hyperfibrinolysis of the blood. Both proteins are synthesized by the vascular endothelial cells and secreted from the cells in resting state and in response to several stimuli such as thrombin, endotoxin, cytokines and growth factors. In various diseases such as DIC, thromboembolism and bacterial infection, the plasma concentrations of those two factors vary as a consequence of several stimuli, representing the altered fibrinolytic balance caused by the disease. Measurements of these factors and evaluation of the fibrinolytic balance will be important for determination of the most appropriate method of treatment. Moreover, the high plasma concentration of PAI-1 will be a prognostic marker of the disease and may be a risk factor of thrombotic events. In clinical treatment, t-PA is now widely used as a valuable fibrinolytic agent especially in myocardial infarction.
O-linked L-fucose is present in Desmodus rotundus salivary plasminogen activator.	DSPAalpha1 (Desmodus rotundus salivary plasminogen activator), a plasminogen activator from the saliva of the vampire bat Desmodus rotundus, is an effective thrombolytic agent. An unusual type of posttranslational modification, in which L-fucose is O-glycosidically linked to threonine 61 in the epidermal growth factor domain was found for natural DSPAalpha1 and its recombinant form isolated from Chinese hamster ovary cells. In the present study a combination of carbohydrate and amino acid composition analysis, amino acid sequencing, and mass spectrometry revealed that the L-fucose is bound to residues 56-68 of DSPAalpha1. The amino acid sequence of this glycosylation site agreed with the suggested consensus sequence Cys-Xaa-Xaa-Gly-Gly-Ser/Thr-Cys described for other proteins. Anew strategy for the identification of the modified amino acid was established. Direct evidence for the occurrence of fucosyl-threonine was obtained by mass spectrometry after digestion of the glycopeptide with a mixture of peptidases. On the basis of these results, DSPAalpha1 is a suitable model for studying the influence of O-fucosylation on clearance rates, particularly in comparative studies with the identically fucosylated and structurally related tissue plasminogen activator.
Non-native capillary isoelectric focusing for the analysis of the microheterogeneity of glycoproteins.	A simple capillary isoelectric focusing method in bare fused-silica capillaries under denaturing conditions was developed for the separation of the glyco-isoforms of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) which have pI values ranging from pH 6 to 8. The glycoprotein was denatured in 8 M urea and separated in the presence of 0.75% carrier ampholytes, 0.4% hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and 4 M urea. Excellent separation of the glyco-isoforms of rTPA was achieved. Good reproducibilities for peak area and migration times were obtained using pressure mobilization of the focused protein zones. The method optimized for rTPA was also successfully applied to other glycoproteins (recombinant human erythropoietin and a monoclonal antibody) with different carbohydrate contents (3-55%).
The glycosylation of Bowes melanoma tissue plasminogen activator: lectin mapping, reaction with anti-L2/HNK-1 antibodies and the presence of sulphated/glucuronic acid containing glycans.	The glycosylation of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) obtained from the Bowes melanoma cell line was re-examined using methods of serial lectin affinity chromatography coupled with Bio-Gel P-4 gel filtration chromatography and exoglycosidase sequencing. This study clarified an earlier discrepancy in the literature and confirmed that the major complex N-linked glycans on Bowes t-PA that carry sialic acid as their sole charged group are bi-antennary, core fucosylated, with terminal N-acetylgalactosamine residues. We also report the characterization of a series of related and previously unidentified sialylated glycans. Further we show that Bowes t-PA expresses glucuronic acid/sulphate containing N-linked glycans and is recognized by anti-carbohydrate L2/HNK-1 monoclonal antibodies. The presence on Bowes t-PA of glycans associated primarily with the nervous system is consistent with its expression in a cell line of neuroectodermal origin.
Elucidation of the structural basis for the slow reactivity of thrombin with plasminogen activator inhibitor-1.	Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is a serine protease inhibitor of the serpin superfamily which rapidly inactivates tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), but reacts with thrombin at a much slower rate. Based on the previous mutagenesis studies and the X-ray crystal structure of the thrombin E192Q-bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) complex, the structural basis for the slow reactivity of thrombin with PAI-1 is investigated in this study. In the crystal structure of the thrombin E192Q-BPTI complex, the reactive site loop of BPTI is stabilized in a canonical conformation by several productive interactions (e.g., Glu39 of thrombin is ion-paired to the P5' Arg, and Gln192 is hydrogen-bonded to the P2 and P4 backbone carbonyls of BPTI). PAI-1 contains Glu residues at both the P4' and P5' positions, and previous mutagenesis studies suggest that these residues make productive interactions with Arg39 of tPA as well as with two other positively charged residues present on the 39-loop of the protease (chymotrypsin numbering). Glu39 and Glu192 of thrombin would be unable to make such productive interactions with PAI-1. Instead, their repulsive interactions with the similarly charged residues and/or the backbone carbonyls of the PAI-1 reactive site loop could restrict the reaction. To test this, the rate constants (k2) for the PAI-1 inactivation of wild-type, E39K, E39Q, E192Q, E192M, and E39K/E192Q thrombins were determined. The inactivation rates of E39K [k2 = (4.3 +/- 0.2) x 10(4) M-1 s-1] and E39Q [k2 = (1.0 +/- 0.1) x 10(4) M-1 s-1] were 50- and 12-fold faster than the inactivation of wild-type thrombin [k2 = (8.6 +/- 0. 5) x 10(2) M-1 s-1], respectively. Relative to thrombin, the PAI-1 inactivation rates were improved 31-fold for E192Q [k2 = (2.7 +/- 0. 5) x 10(4) M-1 s-1] and 5-fold for E192M [k2 = (4.3 +/- 0.8) x 10(3) M-1 s-1] thrombins. With the double mutant E39K/E192Q, the inactivation rate [k2 = (5.4 +/- 0.4) x 10(5) M-1 s-1] was improved 628-fold over wild-type thrombin. These results suggest that repulsive interactions and/or lack of productive electrostatic interactions between PAI-1 and Glu39 and Glu192 of thrombin are responsible for the slow reaction of thrombin with this serpin.
Homology modeling of tissue-type plasminogen activator K1 domain and studies on the interactions between kringles and lysine.	The 3-D structure of t-PA K1 domain was predicted by the method of homology modeling. The putative lysine-binding pockets of t-PA K1, UK K, PLG K1 and K4 were determined by superimposing their 3-D structures to that of t-PA K2 domain, of which the lysine-binding pockets had been revealed previously. After that the key residues of lysine-binding pockets of kringles were identified. The structural analyses showed that both the electrostatic potential and hydrophobic complementarity were well matched between lysine and the binding pockets of t-PA K2, PLG K1 and K4, but for t-PA K1 and UK K domains the complementarity did not match well in one or both respects. It is proposed that this is the reason that t-PA K1 and UK K domains do not bear the ability to bind lysine. With the respect of improving the affinity for fibrin, new types of mutants of t-PA K1 and UK K domains were designed, and structural changes caused by mutation were predicted by simulating the residue replacements. The mutant structural models demonstrated that the molecular design was reasonable.
Structure of the Kunitz-type soybean trypsin inhibitor (STI): implication for the interactions between members of the STI family and tissue-plasminogen activator.	The Kunitz-type soybean trypsin inhibitor (STI) has played a key role in the early study of proteinases, having been used as the main substrate in the biochemical and kinetic work that led to the definition of the standard mechanism of action of proteinase inhibitors. A partial structure of STI complexed with porcine trypsin has previously been reported, in which the first 93 residues of the inhibitor, including the region of contact with trypsin, were relatively well defined, whereas for the remaining part of the peptide chain only some Calpha atoms were located. The structure of the inhibitor in its free form has now been determined by molecular replacement to 2.5 A, using the coordinates of the homologous Erythrina trypsin inhibitor as a search model. When the refined atomic coordinates of STI are compared with the partial model previously available, the conformation of the reactive-site loop and its position with respect to the main body of the molecule does not change when the inhibitor interacts with trypsin. There are instead, despite the high similarity in the overall tertiary structure, significant differences between STI and Erythrina trypsin inhibitor (ETI) in the region which is in contact with the enzyme in the STI:trypsin crystal structure. Some of these differences can explain the unique specificity of ETI and its ability to inhibit the fibrinolytic enzyme tissue-type plasminogen activator.
