New use of a three-dimensional pellet culture system for human intervertebral disc cells: initial characterization and potential use for tissue engineering.	Human intervertebral disc cells were cultured in a new three-dimensional "pellet culture" system as an alternative to conventional alginate bead microspheres. Histologic, biochemical, and immunohistologic assays were performed to characterize this new culturing method for disc cells. The feasibility of using the pellet culture system to study effects of gene therapy was also assessed.
Gene therapy and tissue engineering for urologic dysfunction: status and prospects.	This article reviews the recent advances in gene therapy and tissue engineering for urologic dysfunction. Although the number of gene therapy-based clinical trials has increased dramatically in the field of urologic oncology, such trials are still few within the neurourologic field. Recently, new biologic approaches employing growth factors have been utilized to treat various pathological conditions. Among them, transfer of genes such as those encoding growth factors represents a promising way to deliver therapeutic proteins to malfunctioning tissues, which leads to the improvement of organ function. Tissue engineering, which may eventually be combined with gene therapy, also offers the potential to create new functional genitourinary tissue for regeneration and replacement of tissue lost as a consequence of disease. Thus, both tissue engineering and gene therapy may hold promising new solutions in the urologic field.
Muscle-based gene therapy and tissue engineering.	The development of new biological approaches based on cell and gene therapies, in combination with tissue engineering, may create innovative ways to treat various tissues of the musculoskeletal system. It is vital for practicing orthopaedic surgeons to understand the terminology, fundamental concepts, and current research in this burgeoning field so that they may practice their discipline in its fullest form. Such techniques, coupled with advances in cell biology and polymer chemistry, are resulting in novel approaches to treating musculoskeletal disorders in which surgeons, who have traditionally used the tools of excision and reconstruction to treat patients, may now serve as surgical gardeners who create microenvironments that are conducive for tissue regeneration. Gene therapy and tissue engineering applications for bone healing, articular disorders, and skeletal muscle diseases and injuries are currently being explored. This review is intended to update readers on the principles and current advances in muscle-based gene therapy and tissue engineering for the musculoskeletal system.
Polymeric delivery of proteins and plasmid DNA for tissue engineering and gene therapy.	In vivo gene expression can be altered by locally delivered DNA and proteins. The ability to deliver bioactive macromolecules, such as proteins and plasmid DNA, over controllable time frames represents a challenging engineering problem. Considerable success has been achieved with polymeric delivery systems that provide the capability to change cell function either acutely or chronically. This review focuses on controlled delivery of proteins and plasmid DNA from polymers and on the effects of controlled delivery on gene expression, and introduces some cell biological and biochemical parameters to be considered when delivering macromolecules to change cell behavior.
Oxygen tension influences proliferation and differentiation in a tissue-engineered model of placental trophoblast-like cells.	A considerable oxygen gradient exists in vivo, which exerts regulatory effects on tissue development and function. The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of controlling cell proliferation and differentiation by regulating oxygen tension in a tissue-engineered bioreactor model. The effects of oxygen tension on proliferation and differentiation of first-trimester human trophoblast cells (known as ED(27) cells) were studied in a fiber-bed perfusion bioreactor system in which cells were grown in polyethylene terephthalate (PET) nonwoven fibrous matrix. By varying the oxygen tension between 2% and 20%, differential responses of trophoblasts in their proliferation and differentiation activities were observed. There was no significant difference in the rates of glucose consumption and lactate production, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level in the culture media for both 2% and 20% oxygen tension cultures, indicating that cell metabolic activities were not limited by low oxygen tension. However, 2% oxygen stimulated cell proliferation but impeded the secretion of a functional hormone, 17beta-estradiol. In contrast, 20% oxygen tension reduced cell proliferation, but yielded higher hormone secretion. A step change in oxygen tension from 2% to 20% caused cells in the bioreactor to increase 17beta-estradiol secretion and shifted cell cycle from proliferation to differentiation, which were verified with the expression levels of cyclin B1 and p27(kip1). However, no significant response to a change from 6% to 20% oxygen tension was observed. It is concluded that changes in oxygen tension can be an effective strategy to control cell cycle and long-term tissue development. This work also demonstrated the important role of oxygen tension in regulating placental trophoblast tissue development and the feasibility of using the bioreactor under well-controlled physiological environment for tissue engineering applications.
Revascularization of tissue-engineered nerve grafts and invasion of macrophages.	Nonneural derived nerve conduits fail to support regeneration over larger gaps due to lacking viable Schwann cells. Thus, tissue engineering of nerves is focusing on implantation of viable Schwann cells into suitable scaffolds. We established grafts made from acellular muscles and veins, respectively, seeded with cultured Schwann cells. As timing of revascularization is crucial to determine Schwann cell survival and depending axonal regeneration we studied establishment of vascular architecture in a rat sciatic nerve model (2-cm gap) after 3, 5, 7, and 10 days postoperatively, using albumin bound Evans blue. Additionally, macrophage recruitment was immunohistochemically assessed. Engineered grafts showed a delayed revascularization, starting between day 5 and 7 in comparison to normal autografts, that revascularized by day 3. Macrophage recruitment in autologous nerve grafts was evident by day 3. The engineered groups revealed no macrophage invasion until day 7. As Schwann cells survive up to 7 days in autologous grafts without blood supply, depending purely on diffusion, establishment of vascular structure between day 5 and 7 is rapid enough to support Schwann cell survival in engineered grafts. As these grafts are lacking Wallerian degeneration delayed macrophage invasion may not impair degeneration-dependent regeneration, but presence of macrophage derived or induced growth factors may be decreased.
A novel use of alginate hydrogel as Schwann cell matrix.	The use of bioresorbable conduits supplemented with Schwann cells (SCs) is a promising tissue engineering technique to replace nerve grafting. Alginate hydrogel (AH), as a SC tissue engineering matrix, has many advantages over previously used matrices but has not been evaluated for this purpose. In this study, the viability and proliferation of SCs together with SC function in AH was evaluated in vitro. AlamarBlue cell assay was used to monitor the viability of SCs in AH and compared to SC viability in collagen gel, fibrin glue, hyaluronic acid, Matrigel, and standard culture plate over 5 days in culture. The results showed that the viability and growth of SCs in different matrices over the culture period did not significantly differ to culture plate culture. SC function when suspended in AH was monitored using chick embryo dorsal root ganglia (CDRG) growth assay. Growth of CDRG in AH with or without SCs was compared to CDRG growth without AH matrix. After 3 days in culture, the mean length of neurite sprouting was measured. The results showed that there was neurite growth in AH but was reduced to 43% of control. The neurite growth in AH was, however, enhanced by 170% when SCs were suspended in the gel. In conclusion, AH supported SC viability and function in vitro and may be useful in peripheral nerve tissue engineering in reconstructive procedures.
Acceleration of the formation of cultured epithelium using the sonic hedgehog expressing feeder cells.	Sonic hedgehog (Shh) regulates the principal possesses in many developmental stages, including the epithelial-mesenchymal interaction. The extraordinary acceleration of signaling by Shh is responsible for the development of human basal cell carcinomas and trichoepitheliomas; they might originate from the very immature keratinocytes, including the stem cells. We tried to utilize the mitogenic effect of Shh to accelerate the formation of cultured epithelium, which is already used in the medical field practically. To this end, we transfected shh cDNA into a Swiss-3T3 cell line, widely used as a feeder for keratinocytes, and established a Shh expressing cell line. The lethally irradiated Shh expressing feeder cells remarkably accelerated the growth of keratinocyte colonies obtained from the human neonatal foreskin, and the formation of well-stratified cultured epithelium, which is rich in immature small keratinocytes, expressing cytokeratin 14. This acceleration was suppressed by the addition of cyclopamine, a specific inhibitor of Shh signaling. These data indicate that the Shh is a promising mitogen to improve the technology for cultured epithelium formation.
Functional development of engineered skeletal muscle from adult and neonatal rats.	A myooid is a three-dimensional skeletal muscle construct cultured from mammalian myoblasts and fibroblasts. The purpose was to compare over several weeks in culture the morphology, excitability, and contractility of myooids developed from neonatal and adult rat cells. The hypotheses tested were as follows: (1) baseline forces of myooids correlate with the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the myooids composed of fibroblasts, and (2) peak isometric tetanic forces normalized by total CSA (specific P(o)) of neonatal and adult rat myooids are not different. Electrical field stimulation was used to measure the excitability and peak tetanic forces. The proportion of the CSA composed of fibroblasts was greater for neonatal (40%) than adult (17%) myooids. For all myooids the baseline passive force normalized by fibroblast CSA (mean = 5.5 kPa) correlated with the fibroblast CSA (r(2) = 0.74). A two-element cylindrical model was analyzed to determine the contributions of fibroblasts and myotubes to the baseline force. At each measurement period, the specific P(o) of the adult myooids was greater than that of the neonatal myooids. The specific P(o) of the adult myooids was approximately 1% of the control value for adult muscles and did not change with time in culture, while that of neonatal myooids increased.
Three-dimensional cell-scaffold constructs promote efficient gene transfection: implications for cell-based gene therapy.	To date, introduction of gene-modified cells in vivo is still a critical limitation for cell-based gene therapy. In this study, based on tissue engineering techniques, we developed a three-dimensional (3-D) transfection system to be cell-based gene delivery vehicle. Human trophoblast-like ED(27) and fibroblastic NIH3T3 cells were used as model cell lines. Cells were seeded onto PET fibrous matrices and plated on polyethylene terephathalate (PET) films as 2-D transfection control. The cell-matrices and cell-films were transfected with pCMV-betagal and pEGFP (green fluorescent protein) reporter gene vectors using LipofectAmine reagent. Gene expression on 3-D versus 2-D growth surface were investigated. The effects of seeding method, seeding density, porosity of the PET matrix, and culturing time of the cell-matrix complex on cDNA transfection and expression in the 3-D cell-matrix complex were also investigated. The beta-gal assay and GFP detection showed that 3-D transfection promoted a higher gene expression level and longer expression time as compared to 2-D transfection. There existed an optimal initial cell seeding density for gene transfection of 3-D cell-matrix complex. Cells seeded on PET matrices with a lower porosity ( approximately 87%) had higher gene expression activities than cells in the matrices with a higher porosity ( approximately 90%). Also, Higher gene expression levels of beta-gal were obtained for the more uniformly seeded matrices that were seeded with a depth-filtration method. The results from this study demonstrate the potential utility of cells seeded onto 3-D fibrous matrices as cell-based gene delivery vehicle for in vitro study of gene expression or in vivo gene therapy.
Retinal pigment epithelium engineering using synthetic biodegradable polymers.	Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) plays a key role in the maintenance of the normal functions of the retina, especially photoreceptors. Alteration in RPE structure and function is implicated in a variety of ocular disorders. Tissue engineering strategies using synthetic biodegradable polymers as temporary substrates for RPE cell culture and subsequent transplantation may provide a promising new therapy. In this review article, the manufacture of thin biodegradable poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) films and their degradation behavior in vitro are discussed. RPE cell proliferation and differentiation on these PLGA films are reviewed. The fabrication of model substrates with desired chemical micropatterns in the micrometer scale is discussed and the effects of surface patterning on RPE morphology and function are assessed. Finally. the preparation of biodegradable micropatterns with adhesive PLGA and non-adhesive poly(ethylene glycol)/PLA domains to modulate RPE cell adhesion is presented.
Thermoresponsive artificial extracellular matrix for tissue engineering: hyaluronic acid bioconjugated with poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) grafts.	Thermoresponsive hyaluronans (HAs) were prepared by graft polymerization of N-isopropylacrylamide (NIPAM) on HA (number-averaged molecular weight, Ma, ca. 1.5 x 10(5) and 5.0 x 10(5)) using dithiocarbamate which is a kind of iniferter (initiator, transfer agent and terminator). The degree of dithiocarbamylation (DD) as an iniferter ranged from 0.4 to 11.4% per disaccharide unit of HA. The estimated Mn of the grafted polyNIPAM (PNIPAM) ranged from approximately 5.0 x 10(3) to 8.4 x 10(4). The PNIPAM-grafted HAs (PNIPAM-HAs) were water-soluble at room temperature, while they precipitated at temperatures above approximately 34 degrees C in water. The temperature at the onset of precipitation (lower critical solution temperature: LCST) was independent of parameters of molecular architecture such as Mn of HA, degree of grafting of PNIPAM, and Mn of PNIPAM. Equilibrium transmittance of the aqueous solution above LCST decreased with an increase in both degree of grafting and Mn of PNIPAM. At physiological temperature, the PNIPAM-HA film cast from a cold solution was very wettable with water. A markedly reduced adhesion of endothelial cells to the film was observed, indicating that the PNIPAM-HA film may serve as a non-cell-adhesive matrix. Scanning electron microscopic observation appeared to differentiate supramolecular structures between rapidly freeze-dried PNIPAM-HA and nongrafted HA:PNIPAM-HA exhibited a nonuniform fibrous network, whereas the morphology of which is markedly different from that of a nongrafted HA gel exhibited a mixture of sharp needle- and platelike structures.
Tissue-engineered bone repair of sheep cranial defects with autologous bone marrow stromal cells.	Cranial bone defect remains a major challenge to craniofacial surgeons because of limited availability of autologous bone graft to repair the defects and the donor site defects secondary to tissue harvesting. In contrast, tissue-engineering technique can generate a large bone tissue using small amount of autologous cells and therefore avoid these problems. Bone Marrow Stromal Cells (MSCs) have the potential of multi-lineage (including osteogenic) differentiation. The objective of this study was to investigate the potential of using autologous MSCs to repair cranial bone defects by a tissue-engineering approach. Autologous MSCs were isolated from eight adult sheep respectively and were in vitro expanded and induced to become osteogenic cells. Bilateral full-thickness defects (20 mm in diameter) of parietal bones were created in animals and the bone defects were either repaired with the bone implants constituted with MSCs and calcium alginate at the experimental side (n = 8) or treated with calcium alginate only without MSCs (n = 4) or left unrepaired (n = 4) at the control side. New bone tissues were observed either grossly or histologically at the defects of experimental group as early as 6 weeks post-repairing, but not in control groups. The engineered bone tissue became more mature at 18 weeks post-repairing. Three-dimensional computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed an almost complete repair of the defect of experimental group at 18 weeks. This study may provide insight for future clinical repair of cranial defect.
Adhesion of perichondrial cells to a polylactic acid scaffold.	The number of chondrogenic cells available locally is an important factor in the repair process for cartilage defects. Previous studies demonstrated that the number of transplanted rabbit perichondrial cells (PC) remaining in a cartilage defect in vivo, after being carried into the site in a polylactic acid (PLA) scaffold, declined markedly within two days. This study examined the ability of in vitro culture of PC/PLA constructs to enhance subsequent biomechanical stability of the cells and the matrix content in an in vitro screening assay. PC/PLA constructs were analyzed after 1 h, 1 and 2 weeks of culture. The biomechanical adherence of PC to the PLA scaffold was tested by subjecting the PC/PLA constructs to a range of flow velocities (0.25-25 mm/s), spanning the range estimated to occur under conditions of construct insertion in vivo. The adhesion of PC to the PLA carrier was increased significantly by 1 and 2 weeks of incubation, with 25 mm/s flow causing a 57% detachment of cells after 1 h of seeding, but only 7% and 16% after 1 and 2 weeks of culture, respectively (p<0.001). This adherence was associated with marked deposition of glycosaminoglycan and collagen. These findings suggest that pre-incubation of PC-laden PLA scaffolds markedly enhances the stability of the indwelling cells.
Long-term intermittent shear deformation improves the quality of cartilaginous tissue formed in vitro.	The formation of cartilaginous tissue in vitro is a promising alternative to repair damaged articular cartilage. However, recent attempts to tissue-engineer articular cartilage that has similar properties to the native tissue have proven to be difficult. The in vitro-formed cartilaginous tissue typically has a similar proteoglycan content to native cartilage, but has a reduced collagen content and only a fraction of the mechanical properties. In this study, we investigated whether the intermittent application of cyclic shearing forces during tissue formation would improve the tissue quality. Chondrocyte cultures were stimulated at a 2% shear strain amplitude at a frequency of 1 Hz for 400 cycles every 2nd day. At one week, both collagen and proteoglycan synthesis increased (23+/-6% and 20+/-6%, respectively) over the unstimulated, static controls. At four weeks, an increased amount of tissue formed (stimulated: 1.85+/-0.08, unstimulated: 1.58+/-0.07 mg dry wt.). This tissue contained approximately 40% more collagen (stimulated: 511+/-23, unstimulated: 367+/-24 microg/construct) and 35% more proteoglycans (stimulated: 376+/-21, unstimulated: 279+/-26 microg/construct). Tissues that formed in the presence of shearing forces also displayed a 3-fold increase in compressive load-bearing capacity (stimulated: 16+/-5, unstimulated: 5+/-1 kPa max. equilibrium stress) and a 6-fold increase in stiffness (stimulated: 112+/-36, unstimulated: 20+/-6 kPa max. equilibrium modulus) compared to the static controls. These results demonstrate that intermittent application of dynamic shearing forces over a four-week period improves the quality of cartilaginous tissue formed in vitro. Interestingly, low amplitudes of shear stimulation for short periods of time (6 min of stimulation applied every 2nd day) produced these changes.
Bone induction by BMP-2 transduced stem cells derived from human fat.	We have isolated pluripotent mesenchymal progenitor cells in large numbers from liposuction aspirates (processed lipoaspirate cells or PLAs). This study examines the osteogenic potential of PLAs and bone marrow aspirate cells (BMAs), when exposed to either recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 (rh-BMP-2) or adenovirus containing BMP-2 cDNA (Ad-BMP-2).
Pretreatment of bone with osteoclasts affects phenotypic expression of osteoblast-like cells.	Implant surface morphology regulates osteoblast phenotypic expression. Osteoblast sensitivity to non-biologic surfaces suggests that native bone surface features may also affect osteoblast response. To test this, MG63 osteoblast-like cells were grown for 7 days on bovine cortical bone wafers pretreated with rat bone marrow osteoclasts for 0, 10 or 20 days. Response to osteoclast-treated surfaces was compared to the response of MG63 cells to titanium surfaces with smooth and rough microtopographies. Cell number, differentiation (alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin levels), and local factors (PGE(2) and TGF-beta1) were measured in confluent cultures. Compared to culture on plastic, cell number was reduced on all three types of bone wafers; this effect was dose-dependent with increasing resorption of the surface. Alkaline phosphatase specific activity was increased (P<or=0.05) on all three surfaces compared with plastic, but this increase was not dependent on resorption time, indicating this parameter was sensitive to the surface (bovine bone vs. plastic) but not to osteoclast-resorption. There was a direct correlation between the area of the bone surface resorbed and the amount of osteocalcin, TGF-beta1 and PGE(2) (R(2)=0.8025, 0.8689, 0.8896, respectively). With 20 days of osteoclast pretreatment, there was a 20-fold increase in osteocalcin over plastic and a 7-fold increase over cultures on untreated bone wafers. Similar increases were found for TGF-beta1 and PGE(2). Thus, surface changes resulting from osteoclast pretreatment have a strong effect on osteoblast phenotypic expression, and suggest that microtopography may play a role.
Tissue engineering of the intervertebral disc with cultured annulus fibrosus cells using atelocollagen honeycomb-shaped scaffold with a membrane seal (ACHMS scaffold).	The objective of the study was to investigate the regeneration of intervertebral discs after laser discectomy using tissue engineering procedures. Annulus fibrosus (AF) cells from the intervertebral discs of Japanese white rabbits were cultured in an atelocollagen honeycomb-shaped scaffold with a membrane seal (ACHMS scaffold), to produce a high-density, three-dimensional culture for up to 3 weeks. Although the DNA content in the scaffold increased at a lower rate than that in the monolayer culture, expression of type II collagen and glycosaminoglycan accumulation in the scaffold were at higher levels than in the monolayer. The AF cells that had been cultured in the scaffold for 7 days were allografted into the lacunae of intervertebral discs of recipients (40 rabbits, 14-16 weeks old; average weight, 3.2 kg), whose nucleus pulposus (NP) had been vaporised with an ICG dye-enhanced laser. The allografted cultured AF cells survived and produced hyaline-like cartilage. Furthermore, the narrowing of the intervertebral disc space of the cell-containing scaffold insertion groups was significantly inhibited after 12 post-operative weeks.
Mechanical characterization of collagen fibers and scaffolds for tissue engineering.	Engineered tissues must utilize scaffolding biomaterials that support desired cellular functions and possess or can develop appropriate mechanical characteristics. This study assessed properties of collagen as a scaffolding biomaterial for ligament replacements. Mechanical properties of extruded bovine achilles tendon collagen fibers were significantly affected by fiber diameter, with smaller fibers displaying higher tangent moduli and peak stresses. Mechanical properties of 125 micrometer-diameter extruded fibers (tangent modulus of 359.6+/-28.4MPa; peak stress of 36.0+/-5.4MPa) were similar to properties reported for human ligaments. Scaffolds of extruded fibers did not exhibit viscoelastic creep properties similar to natural ligaments. Collagen fibers from rat tail tendon (a well-studied comparison material) displayed characteristic strain-softening behavior, and scaffolds of rat tail fibers demonstrated a non-intuitive relationship between tangent modulus and specimen length. Composite scaffolds (extruded collagen fibers cast within a gel of Type I rat tail tendon collagen) were maintained with and without fibroblasts under standard culture conditions for 25 days; cell-incorporated scaffolds displayed significantly higher tangent moduli and peak stresses than those without cells. Because tissue-engineered products must possess appropriate mechanical as well as biological/chemical properties, data from this study should help enable the development of improved tissue analogues.
Ultrastructure of cultured cartilage, articular cartilage, growth plate and meniscus]	To investigate possibility of cartilage cultured in centrifuge tube as graft materials.
Potential applications of photodynamic therapy in regenerative medicine.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an emerging field that uses light-activated drugs to produce specific biological effects in cells and tissues. Its particular strengths arise from the ability to spatially localize the biological responses by the way the light is applied; the range of possible mechanisms of action at the cell, tissue, and organism levels; and the combination of novel molecular and optical technologies. This paper presents the basic principles of PDT and considers some of the possible applications in regenerative medicine.
Toward spinal cord injury repair strategies: peptide surface modification of expanded poly(tetrafluoroethylene) fibers for guided neurite outgrowth in vitro.	Expanded poly(tetrafluoroethylene) fibers were surface modified using an ultraviolet-activated mercury/ammonia reaction to yield amine-functional groups for the coupling of laminin-derived cell adhesive peptides CYIGSR, CDPGYIGSR, CIKVAV, and CQAASIKVAV. Surface elemental composition, determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and radiolabeling data indicated that the amount of peptide introduced was approximately equivalent regardless of peptide type, yet mixed peptide surfaces had approximately 60% YIGSR and 40% IKVAV. The peptide-modified surfaces were compared in terms of the response of dorsal root ganglia with neurite length and number of cells attached to each fiber measured. All peptide-functionalized surfaces had a greater cellular response than the aminated ePTFE and ePTFE controls. Surfaces modified with extended peptide sequences CDPGYIGSR and CQAASIKVAV demonstrated a greater cellular response than those modified with the shorter peptide sequences CYIGSR and CIKVAV, respectively, likely because the extended peptides more closely mimic the three-dimensional conformation that the peptides maintain in laminin. Differences in neurite extension were evident among the peptide-functionalized surfaces, with the longest neurites observed on surfaces modified with both CQAASIKVAV and CDPGYIGSR. The "guidance capacity" of the fibers as a function of fiber diameter was investigated in terms of length and directionality of neurite outgrowth. As fiber diameter decreased (from 100+ to 10 microm), the neurites tended to grow to a greater degree down the length of the fiber. The thinnest fibers (with diameters <20 microm) extended shorter neurites than the fibers with a wider diameter. Combining neurite length with guidance indicated that of the fiber diameters investigated, the optimal fiber diameter for neurite guidance was between 30 and 50 microm.
In vivo bone engineering in a rabbit femur.	The repair of bone defects in reconstructive surgery has significant limitations. Donor site morbidity, limited supply of autograft, and risks and complications associated with allografting and synthetic bone substitutes are among the most significant. In an effort to address these problems, the search for an ideal bone replacement has led to the development of a new method of poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) foam processing, enabling the production of a biodegradable scaffold with similar porosity to human trabecular bone. In this study, these scaffolds were evaluated for bone repair in vivo in a femoral critical-sized segmental defect in New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits. Three groups of nine animals were investigated. In the first group, the critical-sized defects were empty. Scaffolds alone were implanted in the second group, whereas autologous bone marrow cell-loaded scaffolds were implanted in the third group. Animals ambulated freely for 8 weeks after surgery, and bone formation throughout the defects was serially assessed radiographically and quantified using a bone formation index (BFI) measure. Postmortem radiography and histology were also undertaken to examine bone formation. There was a significant effect of applying this technology to the amount of bone formed in the defects as determined by the BFI (F = 3.41, P < 0.05). The mean BFI for the cell-loaded scaffolds was greater than for the control group at all measured time points (2-, 4-, 6-, and 8-week radiographs). This difference was significant for the 2- and 8-week radiographs (P < 0.05). Qualitative histological assessment confirmed these findings. We concluded from these findings that these PLGA scaffolds loaded with marrow-derived progenitor cells yield significant bone formation in a critical-sized rabbit femoral defect. This technology comprising a novel scaffold design and autologous cells may provide an alternative to current strategies for reconstruction of bony defects.
New strategies for craniofacial repair and replacement: a brief review.	Craniofacial anomalies can severely affect the appearance, function, and psychosocial well being of patients; thus, tissue engineers are developing new techniques to functionally and aesthetically rebuild craniofacial structures. In the past decade, there have been tremendous advances in the field of tissue engineering that will substantially alter how surgeons approach craniofacial reconstruction. In this brief review, we highlight some of the preclinical recombinant protein, gene transfer, and cell-based strategies currently being developed to augment endogenous tissue repair or create structures for replacement. In addition, we discuss the importance of studying endogenous models of tissue induction and present some of the current in vitro and in vivo approaches to growing complex tissues/organs for craniofacial reconstruction.
Role of inflammation and ischemia after implantation of xenogeneic pulmonary valve conduits: histological evaluation after 6 to 12 months in sheep.	Commercially available biological heart valve prostheses undergo degenerative changes, which finally lead to complete destruction. Here we evaluate the role of inflammation and ischemia after implantation of xenogeneic heart valve conduits (XPC) generated by novel concepts of tissue engineering.
Comparison of different decellularization procedures of porcine heart valves.	Tissue engineering of heart valves should avoid the disadvantages of conventional prostheses. In this study we tested different decellularization procedures for their potential of cell removal and their ability to preserve the matrix.
A tissue-engineered endothelialized dermis to study the modulation of angiogenic and angiostatic molecules on capillary-like tube formation in vitro.	Because angiogenesis is a major feature of different physiological and pathological situations, the identification of factors that stimulate or inhibit this process and the elucidation of their mechanisms of action are most certainly of clinical relevance. We have produced a new model of endothelialized reconstructed dermis that promotes the spontaneous formation of a human capillary-like network and its stabilization in vitro for a period longer than 1 month.
Remodelling of continuously distributed collagen fibres in soft connective tissues.	Extracellular matrix remodelling plays an essential role in tissue engineering of load-bearing structures. The goal of this study is to model changes in collagen fibre content and orientation in soft connective tissues due to mechanical stimuli. A theory is presented describing the mechanical condition within the tissue and accounting for the effects of collagen fibre alignment and changes in fibre content. A fibre orientation tensor is defined to represent the continuous distribution of collagen fibre directions. A constitutive model is introduced to relate the fibre configuration to the macroscopic stress within the material. The constitutive model is extended with a structural parameter, the fibre volume fraction, to account for the amount of fibres present within the material. It is hypothesised that collagen fibre reorientation is induced by macroscopic deformations and the amount of collagen fibres is assumed to increase with the mean fibre stretch. The capabilities of the model are demonstrated by considering remodelling within a biaxially stretched cube. The model is then applied to analyse remodelling within a closed stented aortic heart valve. The computed preferred fibre orientation runs from commissure to commissure and resembles the fibre directions in the native aortic valve.
Tissue-engineered large intestine resembles native colon with appropriate in vitro physiology and architecture.	Novel production and in vitro characterization of tissue engineered colon.
Recurrent laryngeal nerve regeneration by tissue engineering.	The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) does not regenerate well after it has been cut, and no current surgical methods achieve functional regeneration. Here, we evaluate the functional regeneration of the RLN after reconstruction using a biodegradable nerve conduit or an autologous nerve graft. The nerve conduit was made of a polyglycolic acid (PGA) tube coated with collagen. A 10-mm gap in the resected nerve was bridged by a PGA tube in 6 adult beagle dogs (group 1) and by an autologous nerve graft in 3 dogs (group 2). Fiberscopic observation revealed functional regeneration of the RLN in 4 of the 6 dogs in group 1. No regeneration of the RLN was observed in any dog in group 2. We also tested for axonal transport, and measured the compound muscle action potential. The RLN can be functionally regenerated with a PGA tube, which may act as a scaffold for the growth of regenerating axons.
A glimmer of hope for diabetics?	Diabetes affects 150 million people worldwide and results from abnormal function of pancreatic islets. The scarcity of human tissue donors has focused interest in developing renewable sources of insulin-producing cells appropriate for engraftment. Advances in stem cell technology and transdifferentiation techniques have provided powerful tools to study pancreatic development, function and disease. Recent results from these two approaches could have significant implications for future therapies of diabetes.
Tissue engineering of bone for mandibular augmentation in immunocompetent minipigs: preliminary study.	Large mandibular defects caused by trauma, infection or resection of a tumour are still a major problem for plastic and maxillofacial surgeons. The modern concept of tissue engineering combines the osteoinductive effects of osteogenic cells with a suitable scaffold structure to promote differentiation of osteoblasts and optimal matrix production. Critical size mandibular bone defects were therefore made to investigate the osteogenic potential of periosteal cells and a bioabsorbable polymer fleece (Ethisorb 510) in minipigs. Periosteal cells were isolated from four minipigs, expanded in vitro and seeded with fibrin glue into Ethisorb 510 fleeces. Tissue constructs were used to repair critical size mandibular defects and compared with two minipigs with untreated bone defects. Bone healing was evaluated after 90 and 180 days by radiographs and a histological scoring system. The radiographs showed increased radiodensity of defects filled with the cell-fibrin-fleece-constructs compared with the untreated control group after 90 and 180 days in vivo. The defects repaired by the cell-fibrin-scaffolds (180 days in vivo) obtained the highest histological mean score 2.9 (range 2-3), while defects filled by cell-fibrin-scaffolds (90 days in vivo) achieved a mean score of 2.1 (range 2-3). In contrast, the control group (n = 2) scored 1 and 2. The results show that a combination of periosteal cells and polymer fleeces may be a promising approach for clinical mandibular augmentation.
An autologous epidermal equivalent tissue-engineered from follicular outer root sheath keratinocytes is as effective as split-thickness skin autograft in recalcitrant vascular leg ulcers.	The outer root sheath of hair follicles plays an important role in epidermal regeneration in vivo. Keratinocytes isolated by explantation of outer root sheath tissue have extensive proliferative capacity irrespective of donor age, which probably depends on pluripotent epithelial stem cells residing in the outer root sheath. These keratinocytes can be organotypically grown to epidermal equivalents in vitro. We report here that in a multicenter, randomized phase II study, EpiDex trade mark, a tissue-engineered, fully differentiated autologous epidermal equivalent derived from keratinocytes of the outer root sheath of plucked anagen hair follicles, is as effective as split-thickness skin autografting in the promotion of healing and complete closure of recalcitrant vascular leg ulcers.
Investigation of changes in optical attenuation of bone and neuronal cells in organ culture or three-dimensional constructs in vitro with optical coherence tomography: relevance to cytochrome oxidase monitoring.	Changes in optical attenuation, relevant to cytochrome oxidase, of the rat bone periosteal tissue in explanted culture and human neuronal cells in three-dimensional agarose constructs have been monitored by the use of optical coherence tomography (OCT), with potential applications in tissue engineering and diagnosis. A superluminescent diode (SLD) with a peak emission wavelength (lambda = 820 nm) that is the near-infrared absorption band of the oxidized form of CytOx was employed. The attenuation coefficient was obtained from the depth-resolved reflectance profiles of liquid phantoms (naphthol green B with intralipid), explant culture (periosteum of calvaria from rats) and cells in 3D agarose constructs. The absorption coefficient of naphthol green B can be accurately quantified by the linear relationship between attenuation coefficients and the concentration. The difference in the attenuation coefficient of astrocytoma cells in agarose before and after reduction of CytOx is 0.26 +/- 0.10 mm(-1) ( n = 9), whereas no attenuation is observed with the agarose control. Reduction of the enzyme in periosteal tissue leads to a change in attenuation coefficient of 0.43 +/- 0.24 mm(-1) ( n = 7). For comparison, using a biochemical assay, the absorption coefficient of the oxidized-reduced form of CytOx is measured at approximately 8.3 +/- 1.5x10(-3) mm-1 ( n = 4) and 8.7 +/-2.5x10(-3) mm-1 ( n = 4) at 820 nm for astrocytoma cells and rat periosteum, respectively. The lower value of CytOx concentration using biochemical versus OCT measurements may result from shifts in the scattering profile and the amplifying influences of multiple heme-based oxidases, indicating that conventional OCT is not specific enough to monitor redox changes in cytochrome oxidase. However, qualitative shifts in oxidation state are apparent using the technique. Our results suggest the potential application of OCT in providing high-resolution tomographic imaging of tissues in organ culture and cells grown in three-dimensional constructs in vitro.
Sows' ears, silk purses and goats' milk: new production methods and medical applications for silk.	Silk is a good example of a self-assembled natural material with attractive characteristics. Attempts are now being made to produce recombinant forms, through transgenic animals, that have potential in a number of medical technologies.
Comparison of tissue integration between polyester and polypropylene prostheses in the preperitoneal space.	Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively. The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene (PP) mesh. The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat (PF) and polyester soft three-dimensional (PS); the PP mesh utilized was Marlex. Eight randomly assigned 4 x 4-cm2 pieces of two different meshes were fixed in the preperitoneal space with a centrally placed single suture. Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness. Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation, connective tissue, foreign-body reaction, neovascularization, hemorrhage, necrosis, and exudate. Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale. The area and the area ratio were measured using a calibrated micrometer. PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses. PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign-body reaction than PF and PS prostheses. There was no difference in fat encapsulation, necrosis, hemorrhage, or exudate between prostheses. Both polyester prostheses (PF and PS) have better tissue integration than the PP mesh, as evidenced by the higher amount of connective tissue and lower extent of fibrous encapsulation.
Periodontal regeneration in human Class II furcations using purified recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor-BB (rhPDGF-BB) with bone allograft.	This human clinical trial evaluated the clinical and histologic response to recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor-BB (rhPDGF-BB) delivered in bone allograft for the treatment of advanced Class II furcation defects. Three mandibular and one maxillary molar furcation defects were treated: Two received 0.5 mg/mL and two received 1.0 mg/mL rhPDGF-BB, in all cases mixed with DFDBA. Clinical probing depths and attachment levels were obtained presurgically and 9 months postsurgical, after which the teeth and surrounding tissues were removed en bloc. Both concentrations of rhPDGF-BB resulted in substantially improved horizontal (mean 3.5 mm) and vertical (mean 4.25 mm) probing depths and attachment levels (mean 3.75 mm). Histologic evaluation revealed periodontal regeneration, including new bone, cementum, and periodontal ligament coronal to the reference notch. Regeneration was also present coronal to the original osseous crest In one case where an enamel projection extended into the fornix of the furcation, new calcified tissue with new inserting connective tissue fibers was observed over the enamel. This study documented the favorable tissue response to rhPDGF-BB treatment at both the clinical and microscopic levels, provided the first human histologic evidence that new calcified tissue with inserting collagen fibers can occur over enamel projections within furcations, and demonstrated for the first time that complete periodontal regeneration can be achieved in advanced Class II furcation defects using a combination of purified recombinant growth factor and bone allograft.
Photo-cross-linking of type I collagen gels in the presence of smooth muscle cells: mechanical properties, cell viability, and function.	The effectiveness of photomediated cross-linking of type I collagen gels in the presence of rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMC) as a method to enhance gel mechanical properties while retaining native collagen triple helical structure and maintaining high cell viability was investigated. Collagen was chemically modified to incorporate an acrylate moiety. Collagen methacrylamide was cast into gels in the presence of a photoinitiator along with RASMC. The gels were cross-linked using visible light irradiation. Neither acrylate modification nor the cross-linking reaction altered collagen triple helical content. The cross-linking reaction, however, moved the denaturation temperature beyond the physiologic range. A twelve-fold increase in shear modulus was observed after cross-linking. Cell viability in the range of 70% (n = 4, p > 0.05) was observed in the photo-cross-linked gels. Moreover the cells were able to contract the cross-linked gel in a manner commensurate with that observed for natural type I collagen. Methacrylate-mediated photo-cross-linking is a facile route to improve mechanical properties of collagen gels in the presence of cells while maintaining high cell viability. This enhances the potential for type I collagen gels to be used as scaffolds for tissue engineering.
Chorioallantoic membrane angiogenesis model for tissue engineering: a new twist on a classic model.	Tissue-engineering (TE) applications include the isolation, culture, and seeding of cells into a suitable matrix or scaffold before in vivo transplantation. After transplantation, vascularization of the scaffold is a principal limiting factor for cell viability for the first 6-8 days posttransplantation. A model for systematic analysis of this process has been developed. Fertilized White Leghorn eggs were incubated (at 37.8 degrees C in 60% relative humidity) and opened on day 3 of incubation. Preadipocyte-seeded fibrin constructs were implanted in a specially designed plastic cylinder and placed through the opening on the surface of the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) on day 8 of incubation. Vascularization of the constructs by chorioallantoic blood vessels was assessed for up to 8 days posttransplantation. The survival rate for embryos receiving transplanted constructs was about 90%. Histology confirmed transplant cell viability at day 4 posttransplantation and vascularization of the constructs by avian endothelial cells began at this time. A new in vivo model to study the effect of angiogenesis in TE constructs, including assessments of viability, proliferation, and differentiation of transplanted cells and biomaterial properties, is presented. Advantages include easy access to the vascular network of the CAM, lack of immunocompetence, low costs, and avoidance of animal experiments.
Three-dimensional culture of human uterine smooth muscle myocytes on a resorbable scaffolding.	The objective of this study was to develop a three-dimensional culture system for the study of human myometrial physiology. Primary cell lines were initiated from human myometrium obtained at the time of term cesarean delivery. After several passages, cells were seeded onto a polyglactin-910 (Vicryl) mesh and maintained in culture. After several days in culture, each mesh was transferred to another culture dish and suspended to avoid contact with the plastic of the dish. Time-lapse videomicroscopy was used to observe cell proliferation and three-dimensional (3-D) fill of the pores of the mesh. Membrane potentials of the cells of this 3-D tissue were measured with a conventional microelectrode. Confocal microscopy was used to assess 3-D morphology. In some experiments, cells were seeded onto two layers of mesh and then cultured as described above. In this two-mesh experiment, force was measured by anchoring one mesh and pulling on the other, using a micrometer-driven strain gauge. In the single-mesh experiment, cells grew into and filled the pores of the mesh by repetitive proliferation, retraction, and proliferation. A confluent, 3-D tissue was obtained within 10 to 14 days of the initial seeding of the mesh. The average membrane potential of the cells within the single mesh was -35 +/- 6 mV. Confocal microscopy demonstrated tissue thickness of 9 to 40 microm (one to eight cells) within the pores of the mesh. In the two-mesh experiment, 2 to 3 weeks in culture yielded confluent 3-D tissues, in which myocytes not only filled the pores of each mesh, but also bridged between the two meshes. The bridging myocytes were able to maintain a tension of 5 g/cm(2) before separation of the two meshes, and coordinated contractions of 40 to 200 cells were observed. We conclude that cultured human myocytes proliferate and form 3-D tissues when supported by Vicryl scaffolding. Tissue grown in 3-D may provide a model system that is sufficient to probe the physiology of cell-to-cell interactions in myometrium.
Tissue engineering of arteries by directed remodeling of intact arterial segments.	Traditional approaches to generating tissue-engineered arteries in vitro rely on expansion of cells in culture to seed appropriate scaffolds. In most envisioned applications, small autologous blood vessels would be harvested and used as a source for these cells. We propose that small autologous arteries, not the cells derived from them, may be an attractive starting point for engineered arteries. This approach capitalizes on the ability of intact arteries to grow and remodel in response to chronic changes in their mechanical environment. Carotid arteries from juvenile (approximately 30-kg) pigs were stretched longitudinally in an ex vivo perfusion system over 9 days. This resulted in a 40% increase in artery length at physiological longitudinal stress and a 20 +/- 3% increase when unstressed. Control arteries were perfused for 9 days ex vivo at their physiological loaded length. Control and elongated arteries displayed native appearance (macroscopic and histological), excellent viability (cellularity and mitochondrial activity), normal vasoactivity, and similar mechanical properties (ultimate stress and ultimate strain) as compared with freshly harvested arteries. Growth, as opposed to just redistribution of existing mass, contributed to elongation as evidenced by an increase in artery weight. Results on elongation of arteries from neonatal and adolescent pigs are also presented and discussed.
Intralumenal tissue-engineered therapeutic stent using endothelial progenitor cell-inoculated hybrid tissue and in vitro performance.	Rapid reendothelialization at an atherosclerotic lesion after balloon or stent inflation may be essential for maintaining homeostatic tissue function, which could reduce or prevent restenosis. We devised an endothelial progenitor cell (EPC)-enriched tubular hybrid tissue and mounted it on a small-diameter metallic stent (outer diameter, 1.5 mm), which is used for intravascular angioplasty to atherosclerotic lesions. This study addressed the fabrication technique and in vitro performance to verify lumenal endothelialization. A thin collagenous tubular tissue was prepared by contraction of collagen fibers by inoculated EPCs, which were isolated from canine peripheral blood and expanded ex vivo, in a collagen gel formed in a mold. An EPC-inoculated hybrid tissue-covered stent, loaded on a balloon catheter, was inserted into a tubular hybrid vascular medial tissue inoculated with smooth muscle cells (SMCs) as an arterial media mimic, and subjected to balloon inflation for enlargement (outer diameter, 3 mm), followed by balloon deflation. The EPC-inoculated hybrid tissue-covered stent tightly adhered to the lumenal surface of the hybrid medial tissue. On culture, EPCs in the hybrid tissue migrated and proliferated to form a completely endothelialized lumenal surface at stented sites as well as sites adjacent to the vascular hybrid medial tissue with the prolongation of culture. This in vitro pilot study before in vivo experiments suggests that an EPC-inoculated hybrid tissue-covered stent may be a novel therapeutic device for reendothelialization or paving with EPC-enriched tissue at an atherosclerotic arterial wall, resulting in the prevention of restenosis and the rapid formation of normal tissue.
Quantitative evaluation of endothelial progenitors and cardiac valve endothelial cells: proliferation and differentiation on poly-glycolic acid/poly-4-hydroxybutyrate scaffold in response to vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor beta1.	Three-dimensional scaffolds made of bioabsorbable polymeric constituents are currently being tested for use in tissue engineering of various tissues. A composite scaffold of poly-glycolic acid (PGA) non-woven mesh dip-coated in a 1% solution of poly-4-hydroxybutyrate (P4HB) was shown to be suitable as a scaffold for creation of tissue-engineered trileaflet pulmonic valve replacements in sheep [Hoerstrup, S.P., et al., Circulation 102(Suppl. 3), III44, 2000]. However, little is known about how cells seeded on PGA/P4HB respond in vitro to soluble factors supplied in the culture medium. To optimize tissue development in vitro, before implantation, we set out to develop quantitative biochemical assays to measure how cells seeded on PGA/P4HB respond to growth and differentiation factors. Herein we show that ovine aortic valvular endothelial cells and circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) seeded onto PGA/P4HB proliferate in response to vascular endothelial growth factor and transdifferentiate to a mesenchymal phenotype in response to transforming growth factor beta(1). Transdifferentiation from an endothelial to mesenchymal phenotype is a critical step during embryonic development of cardiac valves. Our results demonstrate that valvular endothelial cells and EPCs isolated from peripheral blood can recapitulate critical developmental steps on PGA/P4HB. These results demonstrate that PGA/P4HB provides a conducive environment for cellular proliferation, differentiation, and tissue development.
Poly(propylene fumarate) and poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) as scaffold materials for solid and foam-coated composite tissue-engineered constructs for cranial reconstruction.	This pilot study investigates the osseointegration of four types of critical-size (1.5-cm diameter) rabbit cranial defect (n = 35) bone graft scaffolds. The first is a solid poly(propylene fumarate)/beta-tricalcium phosphate(PPF/beta-TCP) disk; the three remaining constructs contain a PPF/beta-TCP core coated with a 1-mm resorptive porous foam layer of PPF or PLGA [poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid)], and bone marrow. Animals were killed at 6, 12, and 20 weeks. There was no evidence of a foreign body inflammatory response at any time during the study. Histomorphometric analyses of new bone formation sorted lineal and areal measures of new bone into three cranial layers (i.e., external, middle, and internal). Statistical analyses revealed significantly more bone in the PLGA foam-coated constructs than in the PPF foam-coated constructs (p < 0.03). No implant fixation was used; there is no strength at time 0. Twenty percent of all explants were tested for incorporation strength with a one-point "push-in" test, and failure ranged from 8.3 to 34.7 lb. The results of this study support the use of PPF as a biocompatible material that provides both a structural and osteogenic substrate for the repair of cranial defects.
Cell-matrix adhesions on poly(vinyl alcohol) hydrogels.	Cell-matrix adhesions regulate cell morphology, intracellular signaling, gene expression, and phenotype. Understanding how different methods of attaching matrix proteins to substrates affect the molecular arrangement of these adhesions offers the possibility of controlling cell function and architecture. The goal of this study was to visualize and quantify the cell-matrix adhesions formed by human fibroblasts on the matrix protein fibronectin covalently attached to poly(vinyl) alcohol (PVA) hydrogels. These adhesions were then compared with the cell adhesions formed in routine cell culture on fibronectin noncovalently coated onto glass coverslips or those formed on fibronectin covalently immobilized onto glass coverslips. Cell adhesions were characterized by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy utilizing paxillin as a marker for focal adhesions and alpha(5) integrin as a marker for fibrillar adhesions. As expected, distinct focal and fibrillar adhesions were observed in routine cell culture on coverslips coated noncovalently with fibronectin. Cells cultured on fibronectin covalently linked to PVA demonstrated diminished spatial separation of paxillin and alpha(5) integrin, accompanied by a reduction in fibrillar adhesions and fibronectin fibrillogenesis. Cells on fibronectin covalently immobilized on glass displayed the strongest marker colocalization and the most complete loss of fibrillar adhesions and lack of fibrillogenesis. These results indicate that fibronectin-conjugated PVA promotes the formation of cell adhesion structures intermediate in composition between those formed on noncovalently attached and covalently immobilized fibronectin. Furthermore, they imply that bioactive polymers can selectively induce specific cell-matrix adhesions, a characteristic that may have consequences in various tissue-engineering applications.
Macroporous biphasic calcium phosphate scaffold with high permeability/porosity ratio.	Macroporous biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP) with channel-shaped pores was produced by a novel dual-phase mixing method. The processing route includes mixing water-based BCP slurry and polymethylmethacrylate resin; shaping in a mold; and polymerization, drying, pyrolyzing, and sintering. After comparison with two other commercial macroporous BCP materials, which were produced along different routes, it was found that conventional parameters such as porosity and pore size cannot describe a macroporous structure precisely enough for the application as tissue-engineering scaffold. Instead, permeability can be seen as an intrinsic and quantitative parameter to describe the macroporous structure of various scaffolds, because it is independent of sample size and fluid used in the test. Another parameter, the permeability/porosity ratio, provides an indication of the percolative efficiency per unit porous volume of a scaffold. Structural characterizations and permeability studies of other macroporous scaffold materials were also performed, and it was found that permeability could reflect a combination of five important parameters for scaffold: (1) porosity, (2) pore size and distribution, (3) interconnectivity, (4) fenestration size and distribution, and (5) orientation of pores. Finally, the implications of relating permeability with biological performances are also discussed.
A tissue-engineered stomach as a replacement of the native stomach.	Despite recent advances in reconstruction techniques, total gastrectomy is still accompanied by various complications. As an alternative treatment, we propose a tissue-engineered stomach that replaces the mechanical and metabolic functions of a normal stomach. The objective of this study was to demonstrate the function of a tissue-engineered stomach as a replacement of the native stomach.
In vitro transdifferentiation of adult pancreatic acinar cells into insulin-expressing cells.	Despite a recent breakthrough in human islet transplantation for treating diabetes mellitus, the limited availability of insulin-producing tissue is still a major obstacle. Here, we studied whether adult pancreatic acinar cells have the potential to transdifferentiate into islet or beta cells. Pancreatic acini were isolated from 7- to 8-weeks-old male Sprague-Dawley rats and cultured in suspension. Within 1 week, most of the acinar cells lost amylase expression and converted to cells with a duct cell phenotype. Insulin-positive cells were also observed, mainly at the periphery of the acini-derived spheroids. Insulin gene and protein expression was increased. Presence of a few insulin-positive cells coexpressing cytokeratins suggests that a spontaneous acinar to ductal cell transdifferentiation process was further going on towards beta cells. This study provides the first evidence that adult pancreatic acinar cells could be differentiated into insulin-expressing cells in vitro.
The application of recombinant human collagen in tissue engineering.	Collagen is the main structural protein in vertebrates. It plays an essential role in providing a scaffold for cellular support and thereby affecting cell attachment, migration, proliferation, differentiation, and survival. As such, it also plays an important role in numerous approaches to the engineering of human tissues for medical applications related to tissue, bone, and skin repair and reconstruction. Currently, the collagen used in tissue engineering applications is derived from animal tissues, creating concerns related to the quality, purity, and predictability of its performance. It also carries the risk of transmission of infectious agents and precipitating immunological reactions. The recent development of recombinant sources of human collagen provides a reliable, predictable and chemically defined source of purified human collagens that is free of animal components. The triple-helical collagens made by recombinant technology have the same amino acid sequence as human tissue-derived collagen. Furthermore, by achieving the equivalent extent of proline hydroxylation via coexpression of genes encoding prolyl hydroxylase with the collagen genes, one can produce collagens with a similar degree of stability as naturally occurring material. The recombinant production process of collagen involves the generation of single triple-helical molecules that are then used to construct more complex three-dimensional structures. If one loosely defines tissue engineering as the use of a biocompatible scaffold combined with a biologically active agent (be it a gene or gene construct, growth factor or other biologically active agent) to induce tissue regeneration, then the production of recombinant human collagen enables the engineering of human tissue based on a human matrix or scaffold. Recombinant human collagens are an efficient scaffold for bone repair when combined with a recombinant bone morphogenetic protein in a porous, sponge-like format, and when presented as a membrane, sponge or gel can serve as a basis for the engineering of skin, cartilage and periodontal ligament, depending on the specific requirements of the chosen application.
Effect of streptavidin-biotin on endothelial vasoregulation and leukocyte adhesion.	The current study examines whether the adhesion promoting arginine-glycine-aspartate-streptavidin mutant (RGD-SA) also affects two important endothelial cell (EC) functions in vitro: vasoregulation and leukocyte adhesion. EC adherent to surfaces via fibronectin (Fn) or Fn plus RGD-SA were subjected to laminar shear flow and media samples were collected over a period of 4h to measure the concentration of nitric oxide (NO), prostacyclin (PGI(2)), and endothelin-1 (ET-1). Western blot analysis was used to quantify the levels of endothelial-derived nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and cyclooxygenase II (COX II). In a separate set of experiments, fluorescent polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) adhesion to EC was quantified for EC with and without exposure to flow preconditioning. When cell adhesion was supplemented with the SA-biotin system, flow-induced production of NO and PGI(2) increased significantly relative to cells adherent on Fn alone. Previous exposure of EC to shear flow also significantly decreased PMN attachment to SA-biotin supplemented EC, but only after 2h of exposure to shear flow. The observed decrease in PMN-EC adhesion was negated by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an antagonist of NO synthesis, but not by indomethacin, an inhibitor to PGI(2) synthesis, indicating the induced effect of PMN-EC interaction is primarily NO-dependent. Results from this study suggest that the use of SA-biotin to supplement EC adhesion encourages vasodilation and PMN adhesion in vitro under physiological shear-stress conditions. We postulate that the presence of SA-biotin more efficiently transmits the shear-stress signal and amplifies the downstream events including the NO and PGI(2) release and leukocyte-EC inhibition. These results may have ramifications for reducing thrombus-induced vascular graft failure.
Resorbability of bone substitute biomaterials by human osteoclasts.	Third generation biomaterials are being designed with the aim that once implanted they will help the body to heal itself. One desirable characteristic of these materials in bone is their ability to be remodeled, i.e. that osteoclasts resorb the material and it is subsequently replaced by newly formed bone through osteoblastic activity. So far the only way to test this biological property of bone substitutes are animal experiments with all their limitations like ethics, costs and limited transferability to man. The present study was designed, to develop a human in vitro assay, allowing to generate human osteoclasts directly on the biomaterial. The assay was validated using calcium phosphate cement and PMMA as biomaterials. Quantification was performed by raster electron microscopy and computer assisted image analysis. Dentin was used as internal standard. Our assay shows iso-bone resorbability of calcium phosphate cement in comparison to unresorbable PMMA cement. Both current clinical orthopedic practice and future skeletal engineering may profit from the availability and use of a test system for the assessment of resorption quality. The assay presented here allows to address this question of resorbability and to select the best materials for the use as bone substitutes in specific patients.
A preliminary study on chitosan and gelatin polyelectrolyte complex cytocompatibility by cell cycle and apoptosis analysis.	In this study, L929 cell adhesion, proliferation and apoptosis were investigated on chitosan (CS) and chitosan-gelatin (CS-Gel) membranes having different degrees of deacetylation (DD). The mitochondrial activity [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] assay results demonstrated that the DD played a key role in the L929 cell adhesion. Indeed, the higher the DD of a CS membrane, the stronger the cell adhesion. The cell cycle analysis showed that the CS surface inhibits most of the cells entering the cell cycle and the DD of CS had little effect on the cell cycle progression. On the other hand, this study also confirmed that CS, blended with Gel, induced L929 cells to enter the cell cycle, encouraged proliferation, decreased the degree of apoptosis on the CS membranes, and are comparable to the results from L929 cells on tissue culture plates. In brief, CS modified with Gel improves cytocompatibility by shielding the positively charged CS with a high charge density.
Microcellular polyHIPE polymer supports osteoblast growth and bone formation in vitro.	A novel micro-cellular polymer with a well-defined and uniform micro-architecture has been developed as a three-dimensional support matrix for in vitro tissue engineering applications. This material is manufactured through a high internal phase emulsion (HIPE) polymerization route and may be modified with hydroxyapatite. The generic form of the support is known as PolyHIPE Polymer (PHP). By changing the chemical composition of the emulsion and the processing conditions, the pore size can be altered from sub-micron range to a few hundred microns and the porosity varied from 70% to 97%. Our work has investigated the use of this micro-porous polymer as a biomaterial to support the growth of osteoblasts, the bone forming cells in vitro. Three groups of polymers were used that had pore sizes of 40, 60 and 100 microm. Results demonstrated in vitro cell-polymer compatibility, with osteoblasts forming multicellular layers on the polymer surface and also migrating to a maximum depth of 1.4mm inside the scaffold after 35 days in culture. PHP was also able to support the differentiation of osteoblasts and the production of a bone-like matrix. The effect of modifying the polymer with hydroxyapatite was also studied and showed that there was a significant increase in osteoblast numbers penetrating into the polymer. There were few differences, between the pore sizes studied, on the overall penetration of osteoblasts into the polymer but the rate of movement into 100 microm PHP was significantly higher compared to the other sizes investigated. This study shows that osteoblasts seeded onto PHP demonstrate cellular attachment, proliferation and ingrowth leading to the support of an osteoblastic phenotype. Therefore this highly porous scaffold has a potential for bone tissue engineering.
Preparation of PLLA membranes with different morphologies for culture of MG-63 Cells.	In this work, poly L-lactide (PLLA) membranes with different morphologies were prepared and the equilibrium phase diagram of membrane formation system of ethanol, methylene chloride, and PLLA was studied. Based on the phase diagram, particulate and porous membranes, dominated by crystallization and liquid-liquid demixing, respectively, could be prepared by changing the PLLA concentration of casting solution. In addition, in vitro interaction of MG-63 osteosarcoma cells and PLLA membranes with dense, porous and particulate morphologies was investigated. It was found that the particulate membrane not only could improve cell adhesion and growth, but also could upregulate the osteoblastic phenotype. Therefore, the PLLA membrane with particulate morphology satisfies the biomaterial requirement necessary for temporary scaffold to transplanted osteoblasts and provides a means for the architectural design of more complex tissue-engineered systems.
Ordered growth of neurons on diamond.	Diamond has a number of unique properties that make it an attractive electronic and bio-electronic material. Here we show the ordered growth of mammalian neurons, the principal electrogenic cells of the nervous system, on diamond. Proteins were specifically patterned on diamond surfaces by micro-contact printing. Mouse cortical neurons were then cultured on these substrates. Neuron adhesion and outgrowth was specific for those areas of the diamond that had been stamped with laminin, resulting in ordered growth of high resolution. Neurons survived in culture for the duration of the experiment, and laminin patterns were stable for at least 1 week in culture. The relative biocompatibility of diamond and the suitability of neuron interfacing with the hydrogen surface conductivity layer make this an interesting model for the formation of defined neuronal networks and for implants.
Cellular attachment and spatial control of cells using micro-patterned ultra-violet/ozone treatment in serum enriched media.	Ultra-violet Ozone (UVO) modified polystyrene (PS) surfaces were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), atomic force microscopy (AFM), contact angle (CA), optical microscopy (OM) and cell culture experiments. UV/Ozone treatment up to 900 s was used to increase the surface oxygen concentration of PS surfaces from 0% to approximately 35% (unwashed) and 0% to approximately 27% (washed). The observed differences in oxygen concentration, between washed and unwashed surfaces, have been previously attributed to the removal of low molecular weight debris produced in this treatment process. Surface roughness (Rq) is known to affect cellular attachment and proliferation. AFM studies of the UV/Ozone treated PS surfaces show the surface roughness is an order of magnitude less than that expected to cause an effect. UV/Ozone treatment of PS showed a marked change in CA which decreased to approximately 60 degrees after 900 s treatment. The increased attachment and proliferation of Chinese hamster ovarian (CHO) and mouse embryo 3T3-L1 (3T3) cells on the treated surfaces compared to untreated PS were found to correlate strongly with the increase in surface oxygen concentration. Surface chemical oxidation patterns on the PS were produced using a simple masking technique and a short UV/Ozone treatment time, typically 20-45 s. The chemical patterns on PS were visualized by water condensation and the spatially selective attachment of CHO and 3T3-L1 cells cultured with 10% (v/v) serum. This paper describes an easily reproducible, one step technique to produce a well-defined, chemically heterogeneous surface with a cellular resolution using UV/Ozone modification. By using a variety of cell types, that require different media conditions, we have been able to expand the potential applications of this procedure.
Design of porous scaffolds for cartilage tissue engineering using a three-dimensional fiber-deposition technique.	In this study, we present and characterize a fiber deposition technique for producing three-dimensional poly(ethylene glycol)-terephthalate-poly(butylene terephthalate) (PEGT/PBT) block co-polymer scaffolds with a 100% interconnecting pore network for engineering of articular cartilage. The technique allowed us to "design-in" desired scaffold characteristics layer by layer by accurately controlling the deposition of molten co-polymer fibers from a pressure-driven syringe onto a computer controlled x-y-z table. By varying PEGT/PBT composition, porosity and pore geometry, 3D-deposited scaffolds were produced with a range of mechanical properties. The equilibrium modulus and dynamic stiffness ranged between 0.05-2.5 and 0.16-4.33 MPa, respectively, and were similar to native articular cartilage explants (0.27 and 4.10 MPa, respectively). 3D-deposited scaffolds seeded with bovine articular chondrocytes supported a homogeneous cell distribution and subsequent cartilage-like tissue formation following in vitro culture as well as subcutaneous implantation in nude mice. This was demonstrated by the presence of articular cartilage extra cellular matrix constituents (glycosaminoglycan and type II collagen) throughout the interconnected pore volume. Similar results were achieved with respect to the attachment of expanded human articular chondrocytes, resulting in a homogeneous distribution of viable cells after 5 days dynamic seeding. The processing methods and model scaffolds developed in this study provide a useful method to further investigate the effects of scaffold composition and pore architecture on articular cartilage tissue formation.
Effects of the controlled-released TGF-beta 1 from chitosan microspheres on chondrocytes cultured in a collagen/chitosan/glycosaminoglycan scaffold.	The objectives of this study were (1) to develop a three-dimensional collagen/chitosan/glycosaminoglycan (GAG) scaffold in combination with transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta 1)-loaded chitosan microspheres, and (2) to evaluate the effect of released TGF-beta 1 on the chondrogenic potential of rabbit chondrocytes in such scaffolds. TGF-beta 1 was loaded into chitosan microspheres using an emulsion-crosslinking method. The controlled release of TGF-beta 1, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), was monitored for 7 days. The porous scaffolds containing collagen and chitosan were fabricated by using a freeze drying technique and crosslinked using 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethyl aminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC) in the presence of chondroitin sulfate (CS), as a GAG component. The TGF-beta 1 microspheres were encapsulated into the scaffold at a concentration of 10 ng TGF-beta 1/scaffold and then chondrocytes were seeded in the scaffold and incubated in vitro for 3 weeks. Both proliferation rate and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) production were significantly higher in the TGF-beta 1 microsphere-incorporated scaffolds than in the control scaffolds without microspheres. Extracellular matrix staining by Safranin O and immunohistochemistry for type II collagen were elevated in the scaffold with TGF-beta 1 microspheres. These results suggest that TGF-beta 1 microspheres when incorporated into a scaffold have the potential to enhance cartilage formation.
Increased viable osteoblast density in the presence of nanophase compared to conventional alumina and titania particles.	In the present in vitro study, osteoblast (bone-forming cells) viability and cell density were investigated when cultured in the presence of nanophase compared to conventional (i.e. micron) alumina and titania particles at various concentrations (from 10,000 to 100 microg/ml of cell culture media) for up to 6h. Results confirmed previous studies of the detrimental influences of all ceramic particulates on osteoblast viability and cell densities. For the first time, however, results provided evidence of increased apoptotic cell death when cultured in the presence of conventional compared to nanophase alumina and titania particles. Moreover, since material characterization studies revealed that the only difference between respective ceramic particles was nanometer- and conventional-dimensions (specifically, phase and chemical properties were similar between respective nanophase and conventional alumina as well as titania particles), these results indicated that osteoblast viability and densities were influenced solely by particle size. Such nanometer particulate wear debris may result from friction between articulating components of orthopedic implants composed of novel nanophase ceramic materials. Results of a less detrimental effect of nanometer--as compared to conventional-dimensioned particles on the functions of osteoblasts provide additional evidence that nanophase ceramics may become the next generation of bone prosthetic materials with increased efficacy and, thus, deserve further testing.
Porous poly(alpha-hydroxyacid)/Bioglass composite scaffolds for bone tissue engineering. I: Preparation and in vitro characterisation.	Highly porous composites scaffolds of poly-D,L-lactide (PDLLA) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) containing different amounts (10, 25 and 50 wt%) of bioactive glass (45S5 Bioglass)were prepared by thermally induced solid-liquid phase separation (TIPS) and subsequent solvent sublimation. The addition of increasing amounts of Bioglass into the polymer foams decreased the pore volume. Conversely, the mechanical properties of the polymer materials were improved. The composites were incubated in phosphate buffer saline at 37 degrees C to study the in vitro degradation of the polymer by measurement of water absorption, weight loss as well as changes in the average molecular weight of the polymer and in the pH of the incubation medium as a function of the incubation time. The addition of Bioglass to polymer foams increased the water absorption and weight loss compared to neat polymer foams. However, the polymer molecular weight, determined by size exclusion chromatography, was found to decrease more rapidly and to a larger extent in absence of Bioglass. The presence of the bioactive filler was therefore found to delay the degradation rate of the polymer as compared to the neat polymer foams. Formation of hydroxyapatite on the surface of composites, as an indication of their bioactivity, was recorded by EDXA, X-ray diffractometry and confirmed by Raman spectroscopy.
Biocompatibility of sorbitol-containing polyesters. Part I: Synthesis, surface analysis and cell response in vitro.	A series of sorbitol-containing polyesters were synthesized via a one-pot lipase-catalyzed condensation polymerization. Thin films were prepared by spin coating on silicon wafers and surfaces were analyzed by tapping mode atomic force microscopy and contact angle measurements. Surface morphologies and surface energies across the series of polyester films, including a poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL) control were nearly indistinguishable. Biocompatibility of the sorbitol-containing polyester series was evaluated against a PCL control by measuring cell spreading and proliferation of a mouse fibroblast 3T3 cell line in vitro. Results confirmed that the sorbitol-containing polyester surfaces elicited cell behavior similar to the PCL control. These results establish the sorbitol-containing polyester series as a promising material for tissue engineering research and development.
Calcium phosphates and glass composite coatings on zirconia for enhanced biocompatibility.	Calcium phosphates (CaP) and phosphate-based glass (P-glass, xCaO-(0.55-x) Na(2)O-0.45P(2)O(5) composition) composite coatings were obtained on a strong ZrO(2) to improve biocompatibility, the mechanical strength and biological activity. Hydroxyapatite (HA) and P-glass mixed powder slurries were coated on the ZrO(2) substrate, and subsequently heat-treated to obtain CaP- and P-glass composite coatings. The effects of glass composition (x=0.3, 0.4, 0.5 mol), mixing ratio of glass to HA (30%, 40%, 50% wt/wt), and heat treatment temperature (800 degrees C, 900 degrees C, 1000 degrees C) on the coating properties were investigated. After heat treatment, additional calcium phosphates, i.e., dicalcium phosphate (DCP) and tricalcium phosphate (TCP), were crystallized, resulting in the formation of triphasic calcium phosphates (HA-TCP-DCP) surrounded by a glass phase. The relative amounts of the crystalline phases varied with coating variables. The higher heat treatment temperature and glass amount, and the lower CaO content in the glass composition rendered the composite coatings to retain the higher amounts of TCP and DCP while the initial HA decreased. These appearance of additional crystalline phases and reduction of HA amount were attributed to the combined effects, i.e., the melting-crystallization of P-glass and the reaction between glass liquid phase and HA powder during thermal treatment. As a result of the glass phase in the composite coatings, their microstructures became much denser when compared to the pure HA coating. In particular, a completely dense structure was obtained at coating conditions with large amount of glass addition (50 wt%) at the glass composition of lower CaO content (0.3 mol CaO), and the following heat treatment above 800 degrees C for 2h. As a result, the adhesion strengths of the composite coating layers were significantly improved when compared to the pure HA coating. The highest strength of the composite coating was approximately 40 MPa, an improvement of approximately 80% with respect to the pure HA coating. The composite coatings showed much higher dissolution rates than the pure HA coating due to the newly formed crystallines (TCP and DCP) and the remaining glass phase. The osteoblast-like cells grew and spread actively on the composite coating samples. The proliferation numbers and alkaline phosphate (ALP) activities of the cells on the composite coatings were improved by approximately 30-40% when compared to Thermanox control and ZrO(2) substrate, and were comparable to the pure HA coating. These findings suggested that the CaP and P-glass composites are potentially useful for hard tissue coating system, due to their morphological and mechanical integrity, enhanced bioactivity, and favorable responses to the osteoblast-like cells.
Nanotopographical guidance of C6 glioma cell alignment and oriented growth.	The surface properties of the extracellular matrix play vital roles in cellular behavior such as adhesion, spreading, migration, proliferation and differentiation. While cell attachment and adhesion onto surfaces are mainly mediated by surface molecular interaction, cell morphology and orientation are significantly affected by the topographical cues of the substrate. We reported here the alignment of C6 glioma cells on polystyrene (PS) substrate containing periodic nanotopography. The ridge/groove type structures (210 nm in periodicity, and 30-40 nm in depth) were generated on polystyrene surface using Nd:YAG polarized laser radiation at 266 nm. The cultured cells were shown to align strictly along the direction of the ridges/grooves. And there were distinctive features such as elongated morphology and asymmetrical cell surface extensions, revealed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The results indicated that ordered and continuous nanostructures on substrates can pattern cell, and guide cell alignment and oriented growth along definite directions. The possible mechanism and significance of these observations were also discussed.
Co-culture of hepatocytes and fibroblasts by micropatterned immobilization of beta-galactose derivatives.	Photosensitive poly(allylamine) containing beta-galactose moieties in the side chain (LPAN(3)) was prepared by the reaction of poly(allylamine) with lactobionic acid and azidobenzoic acid. To create micropatterned surfaces, a LPAN(3)-coated poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) substrate was irradiated with an ultraviolet lamp under a photomask. The presence of a LPAN(3) layer on the substrate was confirmed using an electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis. Micropatterned cell culture was carried out by seeding hepatocytes and/or fibroblasts on the substrate. As a result, hepatocytes and fibroblasts adhered only to the LPAN(3) and PMMA lane, respectively. Co-culture on the stripe patterned substrate was carried out by the first cell seeding of hepatocytes and subsequently by the second cell seeding of fibroblasts. The co-cultured cells produced extracellular matrix such as fibronectin, suggesting a biological function.
New macroporous calcium phosphate glass ceramic for guided bone regeneration.	This work describes a method to obtain macroporous resorbable glass and glass ceramic scaffolds with controlled biodegradability for tissue engineering applications. The constructs consisted of glass and glass ceramics in the system P(2)O(5)-CaO-Na(2)O-TiO(2) and they were prepared by foaming a slurry of glass particles by addition of a H(2)O(2) solution, and subsequent sintering of the porous structures obtained. Different thermal treatments were applied to control the degree of devitrification of the glass. The resultant materials showed a porosity percentage between 40% and 55% with a wide variety of pores ranging from 20 to 500 microm in diameter as determined by SEM and Image Analysis. The resulting constructs were predominantly formed by a vitreous phase, although small amounts of calcium metaphosphate and pyrophosphates were detected by X-ray diffraction and Raman spectroscopy after the sintering process. The biological response was also evaluated by means of the MTT test, the material showed a non-cytotoxic effect.
Novel approach to fabricate keratin sponge scaffolds with controlled pore size and porosity.	A compression-molding/particulate-leaching (CM/PL) method was developed to fabricate S-sulfo keratin sponges with the controlled pore size and porosity. The S-sulfo keratin was extracted from wool and was then spray-dried to give S-sulfo keratin powder. The S-sulfo keratin powder mixed with urea in advance was compression-molded together with the sieved NaCl particulates above the melting temperature of urea. The following removal of the salts and urea in water created the sponges composed of interconnected pores and the continuous S-sulfo keratin matrix. The S-sulfo keratin sponges were strong enough to handle and water-insoluble. By contrast, the sponges prepared without urea were very fragile and readily collapsed, because most of S-sulfo keratin matrix remained powdery. The pore size was in good accordance with the size of the salts, indicating that the pores were formed by leaching-out the salts. The S-sulfo keratin sponges with the regulated sizes of pores (<100, 100-300 and 300-500 microm) were fabricated, all of which had more than 90% of the porosity. Thus, CM/PL method is able to give the S-sulfo keratin sponge with the desired pore size and porosity, which might be a good scaffold for the cells in tissue engineering.
Composite cell support membranes based on collagen and polycaprolactone for tissue engineering of skin.	The preparation and characterisation of collagen:PCL composites for manufacture of tissue engineered skin substitutes and models are reported. Films having collagen:PCL (w/w) ratios of 1:4, 1:8 and 1:20 were prepared by impregnation of lyophilised collagen mats by PCL solutions followed by solvent evaporation. In vitro assays of collagen release and residual collagen content revealed an expected inverse relationship between the collagen release rate and the content of synthetic polymer in the composite that may be exploited for controlled presentation and release of biopharmaceuticals such as growth factors. DSC analysis revealed the characteristic melting point of PCL at around 60 degrees C and a tendency for the collagen component, at high loading, to impede crystallinity development within the PCL phase. The preparation of fibroblast/composite constructs was investigated using cell culture as a first stage in mimicking the dermal/epidermal structure of skin. Fibroblasts were found to attach and proliferate on all the composites investigated reaching a maximum of 2 x 10(5)/cm(2) on 1:20 collagen:PCL materials at day 8 with cell numbers declining thereafter. Keratinocyte growth rates were similar on all types of collagen:PCL materials investigated reaching a maximum of 6.6 x 10(4)/cm(2) at day 6. The results revealed that composite films of collagen and PCL are favourable substrates for growth of fibroblasts and keratinocytes and may find utility for skin repair.
The interaction of Schwann cells with chitosan membranes and fibers in vitro.	The bridging of nerve gaps is still one of the major problems in peripheral nerve regeneration. A promising alternative for the repair of peripheral nerve injuries is the bioartificial nerve graft, comprised of a biomaterial pre-seeded with Schwann cells (SCs), which is an effective substrate for enhancing nerve regeneration. Interaction between cultured SCs and biomaterials is of importance. For the purposes of this study, culture systems of normal SCs were used. The biocompatibility of chitosan, including chitosan membranes and chitosan fibers, was evaluated in vitro. The growth of SCs was observed by light and scanning electron microscopy at regular intervals. SCs were identified by immunocytochemical staining and the viability of SCs was measured by MTT assay. The experimental results indicated that SCs could grow onto chitosan materials with two different shapes: spherical and long olivary. They contacted with the extensions. The long olivary cells inclined to encircle chitosan fibers up. It was also found that the cells on the chitosan fibers migrated faster than those on the chitosan membranes. There was a good biological compatibility between chitosan and SCs. Compared with the chitosan membranes, SCs migrated more easily onto the stereoframe of chitosan fibers. These studies contribute information necessary to enhancing our understanding of biocompatibility of chitosan.
Collagenous matrices as release carriers of exogenous growth factors.	We have investigated the use of natural and synthetic collagenous matrices as carriers of exogenous growth factors. A bladder acellular matrix (BAM) was processed from rat bladder and compared with sponge matrix of porcine type 1 collagen. The lyophilized matrices were rehydrated by the aqueous solutions of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), platelet derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and heparin binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF), to obtain the matrix incorporating each growth factor. The rehydration method enabled the growth factor protein to distribute into the matrix homogeneously. In vivo release test in the mouse subcutis revealed that, the property of BAM for growth factor release was similar to that of collagen sponge. Among the growth factors examined, bFGF release was the most sustained, followed by HGF and PDGF-BB. bFGF released from the two matrices showed similar in vivo angiogenic activity at the mouse subcutis in a dose-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that the collagenous matrices function as release carriers of growth factors. This feature is promising to create a scaffold, which has a nature to control the tissue regeneration actively.
Effects of dynamic compressive loading on chondrocyte biosynthesis in self-assembling peptide scaffolds.	Dynamic mechanical loading has been reported to affect chondrocyte biosynthesis in both cartilage explant and chondrocyte-seeded constructs. In this study, the effects of dynamic compression on chondrocyte-seeded peptide hydrogels were analyzed for extracellular matrix synthesis and retention over long-term culture. Initial studies were conducted with chondrocyte-seeded agarose hydrogels to explore the effects of various non-continuous loading protocols on chondrocyte biosynthesis. An optimized alternate day loading protocol was identified that increased proteoglycan (PG) synthesis over control cultures maintained in free-swelling conditions. When applied to chondrocyte-seeded peptide hydrogels, alternate day loading stimulated PG synthesis up to two-fold higher than that in free-swelling cultures. While dynamic compression also increased PG loss to the medium throughout the 39-day time course, total PG accumulation in the scaffold was significantly higher than in controls after 16 and 39 days of loading, resulting in an increase in the equilibrium and dynamic compressive stiffness of the constructs. Viable cell densities of dynamically compressed cultures differed from free-swelling controls by less than 20%, demonstrating that changes in PG synthesis were due to an increase in the average biosynthesis per viable cell. Protein synthesis was not greatly affected by loading, demonstrating that dynamic compression differentially regulated the synthesis of PGs. Taken together, these results demonstrate the potential of dynamic compression for stimulating PG synthesis and accumulation for applications to in vitro culture of tissue engineered constructs prior to implantation.
The "brainy side" of human embryonic stem cells.	The recent isolation of human embryonic stem (ES) cells is evoking great hopes for their future utilization in cell-replacement therapies and human development research. The hallmarks of ES cells, pluripotency and self-renewal capacity, suggest an infinite source for tissues of virtually all desired types. Specifically, human ES cells may potentially be the basis for effective treatments of a wide range of human neurodegenerative disorders. To enable the translation of this novel biomedical field into the clinic, mechanisms that control the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into fully functional neuronal cells should be analyzed and controlled.
Tissue-engineered buccal mucosa for substitution urethroplasty.	To develop tissue-engineered buccal mucosa (TEBM) for use in substitution urethroplasty, as urethral reconstruction is limited by the amount and type of tissue that is available for grafting, and BM has become the favoured tissue for use as a urethral substitute in the last decade.
Prefabrication of vascularized bone grafts using recombinant human osteogenic protein-1--part 3: dosage of rhOP-1, the use of external and internal scaffolds.	In a previous study vascularized bone grafts were prefabricated with recombinant human osteogenic protein-1 (rhOP-1) using blocks of xenogenic bone mineral (BioOss) as scaffolds. The present study addressed the dosage of rhOP-1 and the combination of an external (mould) and internal scaffold (granular BioOss). In five Gttingen minipigs six prefabrication sites in the latissimus dorsi muscles were randomly assigned to groups a-f. Moulds were prepared by shaping collagen/polylactide membranes in a cylindrical form which was filled with 1g BioOss granules and rhOP-1 (a: 0; b: 50; c, f, e: 250; d: 1000 microg of rhOP-1, a-e: cylinder open to muscle, e cylinder perforated, f: cylinder open to subcutaneous fat). After 6 weeks a dose dependency of bone density (a-d: 0%; 9.4%; 15.8%; 31.1%) and vessel density (a-d: 0.3; 2.4; 7.9; 25.4 counts/view) was observed histomorphometrically. Muscular surrounding was advantageous to subcutaneous tissue. Perforations of the membranes increased vessel density and did not impair bone formation. Bone density decreased in the proximity of the polylactide membranes. The membrane material was too soft and partly collapsed and therefore needs not to be reconsidered. The use of BioOss granules with 1000 microg rhOP-1 per gram proved to be a suitable concept for prefabrication of bone transplants.
Preincubation of tissue engineered constructs enhances donor cell retention.	Cartilage tissue engineering has been the focus of considerable research. However, the fate of transplanted donor cells rarely is explored directly. In the current study, the effect of preincubating perichondrial cells into a polylactic acid scaffold before implantation into an osteochondral defect was studied. The extracellular matrix produced during preincubation was characterized; the viability of the donor cells was assessed; and the retention of the donor cells in the repair tissue was determined using a gene marker on the Y chromosome, the gender-determining region Y gene. During in vitro incubation, the cells produced an extracellular matrix consisting of glycosaminoglycans, and Types I and II collagen, and the cell viability remained great. In vivo, preincubated constructs had significantly greater retention of donor cells in the host repair tissue in the short term when compared with nonincubated controls. This study shows the value of preincubating engineered constructs before implantation, and additionally validates the gender-determining region Y gene as an effective tool for assessing the fate of donor cells in cartilage tissue engineering.
Designing materials for biology and medicine.	Biomaterials have played an enormous role in the success of medical devices and drug delivery systems. We discuss here new challenges and directions in biomaterials research. These include synthetic replacements for biological tissues, designing materials for specific medical applications, and materials for new applications such as diagnostics and array technologies.
Quantitative analysis of three-dimensional fluid flow in rotating bioreactors for tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering has emerged as a viable alternative to the problem of organ and tissue shortage. Our laboratory has developed matrices for bone tissue engineering based on sintered spherical particles and, using bioreactor technology, has demonstrated the ability to produce highly mineralized matrices in vitro. In this study, porous microcapsule scaffolds were developed for bone tissue engineering in the high aspect ratio vessel rotating bioreactor. The motion of individual microcapsules as well as scaffolds in the bioreactor were studied by numerical simulation and in situ imaging analysis. Results show that spherical microcapsules with density less than the surrounding fluid exhibited two motions: (1) a periodic circular orbit with tangential speed equal to the free fall speed of the particle, and (2) an inward radial migration of the circular orbit toward the center of the bioreactor vessel. Lighter-than-water scaffolds were fabricated by sintering poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) hollow microcarriers with diameter from 500 to 860 microm into a fixed three-dimensional geometry with approximately 30% pore volume and 180 to 190 microm median pore size. Scaffolds were fabricated with aggregate densities ranging from 0.65 g/mL and 0.99 g/mL by appropriate combinations of hollow and solid microcarriers within the scaffold. Scaffold velocity in the bioreactor for the above range of densities was accurately predicted by numerical simulation and ranged from 100 mm/s to 3 mm/s. Maximum shear stress estimation due to media flow over the exterior of the scaffold ranged from 0.3 N/m(2) to 0.006 N/m(2). Internal perfusion velocity through scaffolds also was calculated and ranged from 13 mm/s to 0.2 mm/s. Estimates of maximum interior shear stress ranged from 0.03 to 0.0007 N/m(2). These analytical methods provide an excellent vehicle for the study of bone tissue synthesis in three-dimensional culture with fluid flow.
Effect of streptavidin RGD mutant on the adhesion of endothelial cells.	Adhesion of endothelial cells (EC) to surfaces can be enhanced by supplementing the integrin-mediated adhesion with high-affinity streptavidin (SA) that links a biotinylated EC to a biotinylated surface. Biotin pullout from the EC membrane limits the effectiveness of this treatment, leading to a predominance of EC detachment by cohesive failure. In this study we investigated whether a RGD-SA mutant that links SA to EC integrin receptors, and eliminates EC biotinylation, improves EC adhesion. Suspended EC were incubated with the RGD-SA mutant prior to cell seeding, primarily via attachment to the RGD binding site on alpha(v)beta(3) integrin. RGD-SA-incubated EC were subsequently seeded onto a surface preadsorbed with a mixture of fibronectin (Fn) and biotinylated bovine serum albumin (b-BSA). Results showed EC adhesion supplemented with the RGD-SA-biotin system significantly increased cell retention under flow, critical shear stresses for detachment, focal contact area, and force per bond relative to SA used with biotinylated EC. These increases were accompanied by significant reductions in membrane fragments left behind following EC detachment, which suggested cohesive failure via cell membrane rupture was significantly reduced, and enhanced phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase, which suggested activation and clustering of integrin receptors. Together, these results show that the integrin-independent augmentation of EC adhesion using SA-biotin can be further improved through use of an RGD-SA mutant.
Bone reconstruction of large defects using bone marrow derived autologous stem cells.	Bone is a tissue that has the ability to heal itself when fractured. Occasionally, a critical defect can be formed when part of the bone is lost or excised, in this case the bone fails to heal and requires bone reconstruction to prevent a non-union defect. Autogenous cancellous bone is the current gold standard treatment in bone loss. Because the amount of autogenous cancellous bone that can be harvested is limited, the expanding need for bone reconstruction is paired by the growth of interest in the discipline of tissue engineering. Labs worldwide are working to provide the right carrier and the right set of cells that, once retransplanted, will ensure bone repair. Several investigators have focused their attention on a subset of autologous non-hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells contained in the adult bone marrow stroma, referred to as stromal stem cells (SSC), as the appropriate cells to be transplanted. The use of autologous cells is facilitated by less stringent ethical and regulatory issues and does not require the patient to be immunologically suppressed. In pre-clinical and clinical protocols of critical defects in which SSC are employed, two approaches are mainly used: in the first, SSC are derived from bone marrow and directly introduced at the lesion site, in the second, SSC are derived from several sites and are expanded ex vivo before being implanted. Both approaches, equally correct in principle, will have to demonstrate, with definitive evidence of their efficacy, their capability of solving a critical clinical problem such as non-union. In this report we outline the difficulties of working with SSC.
Radiological study on repair of goat tibia defect with marrow stromal stem cells and bio-derived bone]	To investigate the ability to repair goat tibia defect with marrow stromal stem cells (MSCs) and bio-derived bone, and the feasibility of the compounds as bone substitute material.
Chondrogenesis in vitro by epiphyseal chondrocytes seeding into three-dimensional scaffolds]	To observe the efficiency and biological characteristics in regenerating in vitro tissue-engineered cartilage from epiphyseal chondrocyte-scaffold complex.
Preparation of human acellular amniotic membrane and its cytocompatibility and biocompatibility]	To prepare human acellular amniotic membrane (HAAM) and to measure its cytocompatibility and biocompatibility.
Study status of collagen-based biomaterials in drug release and tissue engineering]	To introduce the development of the collagen materials in drug release and tissue engineering.
Comparative physico-chemical and in vitro properties of fibrillated collagen scaffolds from different sources.	Collagen from different sources was isolated and designed as scaffolds to act as a three-dimensional substrate for culturing human skin fibroblasts, which can be used as dermal substitutes. The thermodynamic behavior of the scaffolds developed was analyzed through Differential Scanning Calorimetric (DSC) and Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). Analysis by Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) revealed the functional groups in the scaffolds and the mechanical stability of various scaffolds was assessed through tensile strength analysis. Human skin fibroblasts were cultured on the developed scaffolds to assess their cellular interaction and behavior, and the morphological characteristics of the cultured fibroblasts were evaluated using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). The collagen scaffold exhibited unique features when developed from various sources and it was observed that cells could grow and proliferate well and spread as a monolayer in the reconstituted collagen scaffold.
Dog peritoneal and pleural cavities as bioreactors to grow autologous vascular grafts.	The purpose of this study was to grow "artificial blood vessels" for autologous transplantation as arterial interposition grafts in a large animal model (dog).
Chitin as a scaffold for mesenchymal stem cells transfers in the treatment of partial growth arrest.	To investigate the feasibility of using chitin, a natural polymer, as a scaffold to repair large growth plate defects (50% of physis) in immature rabbits, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were harvested from periosteum. The compatibilities of chitin with the MSCs were investigated in vitro using immunohistochemistry and fluorescence confocal microscopy. The results showed high compatibilities of chitin. An experimental model of growth arrest was created by excising the medial half of the proximal growth plate of the tibia in 6-week-old New Zealand White rabbits. The physeal defect after excision of the bony bridge was transplanted either with no interposition (group 1), chitin alone (group 2), or chitin with MSCs (group 3). In groups 2 and 3, both angulatory deformities and length discrepancies of the tibia were corrected. The differences between group 3 and group 1 were greater than those between group 2 and group 1.
Tissue engineering for the regeneration of the mastoid air cells: a preliminary in vitro study.	Mastoid is a pneumatic bone, composed of small interconnecting chambers covered by a mono-layer of mucosa with an abundant blood supply. One of its main functions is gas exchange according to the concentration/pressure gradient. The final goal of our research project is to regenerate mastoid air cells and their unique physiologic functions. The aim of the present study is to determine appropriate cultivating conditions for the cells cultured on the surface of artificial hydroxyapatite. In our in vitro experiment, to imitate the skeleton of mastoid bone, we used two types of three-dimensional hydroxyapatite (3D-HA), i.e. with a high (90%) and low (60%) percentage of micropores. The former type was divided into two groups: collagen-coated and non-coated. Canine mucosal- and bone marrow-derived stromal cells (BSCs), from the oral floor and femur respectively, were harvested and cultured on the 3D-HA under different conditions. To estimate the proliferation/distribution of the cultured cells over the surface of the 3D-HA, these cells were stained with the dye DiI and hematoxylin-eosin. There were no significant differences in the proliferation of cultured cells on the 3D-HA with high and low percentages of micropores. Collagen-coated HA was a better material for the cultured cells compared with the non-coated HA. Co-cultured mucosal and BSCs proliferated better than those cultured separately. In conclusion, this tissue engineering technique may be applied for the regeneration of mastoid air cells.
S100A1 gene transfer: a strategy to strengthen engineered cardiac grafts.	Cardiac tissue replacement therapy, although a promising novel approach for the potential treatment of heart failure, still suffers from insufficient contractile support to the failing myocardium. Here, we explore a strategy to improve contractile properties of engineered heart tissue (EHT) by S100A1 gene transfer.
The effect of an RGD-containing fusion protein CBD-RGD in promoting cellular adhesion.	The effect of a recombinant RGD (arginine-glycine-aspartic acid)-containing fusion protein, cellulose-binding domain (CBD)-RGD, on the cellular adhesion to a biomedical polyurethane (PU) was evaluated. A series of different cell lines, as well as freshly harvested animal cells, were grown on the PU surfaces with or without CBD-RGD, in serum or serum-free media. The results showed that the enhancement of cellular attachment by CBD-RGD varied with cell types. This is believed to be a result of the unique integrin receptors on each type of cell surface. The existence of certain divalent ions (Mg2+ and Mn2+) may increase the efficacy of the CBD-RGD, in a cell type-dependent manner. The fusion protein was also found to inhibit the platelet activation. The effect of CBD-RGD was further examined in two other substrate materials, poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA). The effect on cellular adhesion correlated with the amount of CBD-RGD physically adsorbed on the material surface.
Improving mechanical stability and density distribution of hepatocyte microcapsules by fibrin clot and gold nano-particles.	Bio-artificial livers (BAL) with microencapsulated hepatocytes have the typical limitations in maintaining hepatocyte functions, mechanical stability and uniform perfusion in packed or fluidized-bed bioreactors. We have previously developed microcapsules with enhanced hepatocyte functions. Here we have introduced a fibrin network inside microcapsules by (1) mixing collagen and fibrinogen with the encapsulated hepatocytes to support the cells; (2) submerging the microcapsules into a thrombin solution to induce the formation of an insoluble fibrin network inside the microcapsules. Fracture analysis on the microcapsules revealed significant improvement in mechanical stability. We have also introduced different amounts of gold nano-particles into microcapsules to achieve different densities for uniform bioreactor perfusion. These gold nano-particles also improved the mechanical stability of the microcapsules. Both the fibrin network and gold nano-particles exhibited the additional benefits of enhancing certain bio-functions of the encapsulated hepatocytes. The applications of these improved microcapsules in the development of bio-artificial livers are discussed.
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 enhances the expression of type II collagen and aggrecan in chondrocytes embedded in alginate beads.	For autologous chondrocyte transplantation (ACT) chondrocytes are expanded in vitro. During expansion these cells may dedifferentiate. This change in phenotype is characterized by a raised expression of type I collagen and a decrease in type II collagen expression. Since high expression of type II collagen is of central importance for the properties of hyaline cartilage, we investigated if the growth factor bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) may modulate the chondrogenic phenotype in monolayer cell cultures and in three-dimensional culture systems.
Bone tissue engineering applications in craniofacial reconstructive surgery.	Tissue and bone engineering are essential components for understanding of the healing and regeneration of bone and adjacent tissues. Recently, interest in restoring the contour and shape in the configuration of the reconstructed bone has become a priority for craniofacial surgeons. This article discusses the latest advancements in bone tissue engineering applications.
The generation of functionally differentiated, three-dimensional hepatic tissue from two-dimensional sheets of progenitor small hepatocytes and nonparenchymal cells.	The authors' laboratory has investigated tissue engineering of the liver as a novel approach for treating end-stage liver disease. Fabrication of thick, viable, three-dimensional liver tissue is limited by the lack of vascularity in the tissue-engineered constructs. To overcome this limitation, the authors fabricated three-dimensional, vascularized liver tissue in vivo from two-dimensional cell sheets created from small hepatocytes (SHC) and nonparenchymal cells (NPC) implanted into rat omentum.
Shape-defining scaffolds for minimally invasive tissue engineering.	Minimally invasive surgical procedures are increasingly important in medicine, but biomaterials consistent with this delivery approach that allow one to control the structure of the material after implantation are lacking. Biomaterials with shape-memorizing properties could permit minimally invasive delivery of cell transplantation constructs and enable the formation of new tissues or structures in vivo in desired shapes and sizes.
Preparation of porcine carotid arteries for vascular tissue engineering applications.	Biomaterials derived from tissue continue to offer viable alternatives to synthetic materials when autologous materials are unavailable for transplantation due to their unique chemical and mechanical properties. Tissue processing aims to stabilize the material against host degradation and render it immunologically inert by removing cellular material and crosslinking the structural proteins. It is clear that different approaches taken to achieve these goals have very different chemical and mechanical effects on the material. We describe herein the development of a tissue processing methodology to generate acellular scaffolds for tissue engineering small-diameter vascular grafts. Carotid arteries were isolated from Great White pigs and exposed to various solvent treatments, xylene, butanol, and ethanol to determine optimal parameters for the extraction of host lipids. The tissue was then exposed to a limited proteolysis with trypsin to disrupt cellular protein. This resulted in a controlled digestion that disrupted porcine nuclear DNA and cleared bulk cellular protein, leaving the more resistant structural proteins largely intact and retaining the bulk mechanical properties of the matrix. Histological analysis and scanning electron microscopy illustrated the complete removal of intact cells and nuclear material. The decellularized graft was stabilized by crosslinking with the photooxidative dye methylene green in the presence of 30,000 LUX of broad-band light energy. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed that the crosslinked tissue yielded 78.6% less hydroxyproline, compared with control tissue, after 20 h incubation with pepsin. Analysis of the crosslinked vessels' burst-pressure and stress-strain characteristics have shown comparable mechanical properties to those of control vessels. Assessment of in vitro cell adhesion and compatibility was conducted by seeding primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells and adult human vascular smooth muscle cells onto the lumenal and ablumenal surfaces, respectively; these cells were shown to adhere and proliferate under traditional static culture conditions.
FGF-7 expression enhances the performance of bioengineered skin.	To improve the performance of bioengineered skin, we used a recombinant retrovirus encoding FGF-7 to modify diploid human keratinocytes genetically. Control or FGF-7-expressing keratinocytes were seeded onto acellular human dermis to form bioengineered skin. Gene-modified skin secreted significant levels of FGF-7 and formed a thicker and hyperproliferative epidermis with about four times the number of cells per square centimeter. Secretion of an endogenous trophic factor, VEGF, was increased approximately 5-fold. Migration of FGF-7-expressing keratinocytes was stimulated as was the self-healing of bioengineered skin expressing FGF-7. When tested in a bacterial infection model, the antimicrobial properties of FGF-7-expressing skin were increased >500-fold against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. After transplantation to full-thickness wounds on athymic mice, skin expressing FGF-7 was revascularized more rapidly. These results demonstrate that genetic modification can be used to enhance performance and that expression of FGF-7 augments several properties important to the wound-healing properties of bioengineered skin.
Intestinal tissue engineering: from regenerative medicine to model systems.	Tissue engineering is a rapidly emerging field that combines the established disciplines of engineering, biology, and medicine with the goal of fabricating viable tissues and organs. Although initially targeted for applications in regenerative medicine, a novel application of this technology has been to generate experimental model systems for studying biological mechanisms and testing the efficacy of potential therapies.
Fabrication of tissue engineered tympanic membrane patches using computer-aided design and injection molding.	The goal of the current study was to use computer-aided design and injection molding technologies to tissue engineer precisely shaped cartilage in the shape of butterfly tympanic membrane patches out of chondrocyte-seeded calcium alginate gels.
Growth factor combination for chondrogenic induction from human mesenchymal stem cell.	During the last decade, many strategies for cartilage engineering have been emerging. Stem cell induction is one of the possible approaches for cartilage engineering. The mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with their pluripotency and availability have been demonstrated to be an attractive cell source. It needs the stimulation with cell growth factors to make the multipluripotent MSCs differentiate into chondrogenic lineage. We have shown particular patterns of in vitro chondrogenesis induction on human bone marrow MSCs (hBMSCs) by cycling the growth factors. The pellet cultures of hBMSCs were prepared for chondrogenic induction. Growth factors: TGF-beta3, BMP-6, and IGF-1 were used in combination for cell induction. Gene expression, histology, immunohistology, and real-time PCR methods were measured on days 21 after cell induction. As shown by histology and immunohistology, the induced cells have shown the feature of chondrocytes in their morphology and extracellular matrix in both inducing patterns of combination and cycling induction. Moreover, the real-time PCR assay has shown the expression of gene markers of chondrogenesis, collagen type II and aggrecan. This study has demonstrated that cartilage tissue can be created from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. Interestingly, the combined growth factors TGF-beta3 and BMP-6 or TGF-beta3 and IGF-1 were more effective for chondrogenesis induction as shown by the real-time PCR assay. The combination of these growth factors may be the important key for in vitro chondrogenesis induction.
Applied tissue engineering in the closure of severe burns and chronic wounds using cultured human autologous keratinocytes in a natural fibrin matrix.	Whereas in severe burns cultured human epithelial cells may well serve as a life saving method, the true value of tissue-engineered skin products in chronic wound care has yet to be clearly defined. Among other well-known clinical problems, the engraftment rate of commercially available multilayered "sheet grafts" has been shown to vary extremely. Adherence of transplanted cells to the wound bed--especially in the presence of potential wound contamination-- is one of the crucial aspects of this technique. Keratinocyte suspensions in a natural fibrin sealant matrix can potentially treat a variety of skin defects. In acute burn wounds, as well as in chronic wounds the clinical application of this type of tissue-engineered skin substitute demonstrates the capacity of cultured human autologous keratinocytes in a fibrin sealant matrix to adhere to wound beds, attach and spread over the wound resulting in reepithelialization of both acute and chronic wounds. In full thickness burns the combination of this new tool with allogenic dermis is a promising option to achieve complete dermal-epidermal reconstitution by means of tissue engineering and guided tissue repair. When transferring this technique into the treatment of chronic wounds we found an optimal preparation of such recipient wound beds to be crucial to the success. The additional application of continuous negative pressure (vacuum therapy) and preliminary chip skin grafting to optimally prepare the recipient site may be helpful tools to achieve such well-prepared and graftable surfaces. Prospective controlled comparative studies should be designed to further assess the clinical efficacy of this technique.
Clinical evaluation of allogeneic cultured dermal substitutes for intractable skin ulcers after tumor resection.	Clinical research on allogeneic cultured dermal substitute (CDS), which was newly developed at the R&D Center for Artificial Skin of Kitasato University, has been carried out in medical centers across Japan with the support of the Millennium Project of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare of Japan. Allogeneic CDS was prepared by cultivation of fibroblasts on a two-layered spongy matrix of hyaluronic acid and atelo-collagen. This paper reports the clinical results of application of allogeneic CDS in 12 patients with full-thickness skin defects after surgical resection of skin tumors. In 9 of 10 patients, healthy granulation tissue developed immediately, allowing us to perform split-thickness skin grafts at an early stage. In two cases, allogeneic CDS was used to cover an expanded mesh skin graft that had been applied to treat a large ulcer, and rapid epithelization was observed. No patient developed local infection nor local tumor recurrence after treatment with CDS. The spongy matrix itself as well as the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) released by the allogeneic CDS seemed to be beneficial for the treatment of intractable skin ulcers. Allogeneic CDS functions as an excellent biological dressing, and could dramatically change the treatment of intractable skin ulcers.
Biomechanical tests of a new scaffold for the cultivation of chondrocytes]	Scaffolds for the cultivation of chondrocytes are of increasing importance. So far, only little is known about their biomechanical properties. The present preliminary study addresses the biomechanical characteristics of a new collagen type I scaffold for the cultivation of chondrocytes.
Assessment of tissue-engineered stomach derived from isolated epithelium organoid units.	Isolated stomach epithelial organoid units developed on biodegradable polymers were transplanted to assess the feasibility of a tissue-engineered stomach.
Engineering principles of clinical cell-based tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering is a rapidly evolving discipline that seeks to repair, replace, or regenerate specific tissues or organs by translating fundamental knowledge in physics, chemistry, and biology into practical and effective materials, devices, systems, and clinical strategies. Stem cells and progenitors that are capable of forming new tissue with one or more connective tissue phenotypes are available from many adult tissues and are defined as connective tissue progenitors. There are four major cell-based tissue-engineering strategies: (1) targeting local connective tissue progenitors where new tissue is desired, (2) transplanting autogenous connective tissue progenitors, (3) transplanting culture-expanded or modified connective tissue progenitors, and (4) transplanting fully formed tissue generated in vitro or in vivo. Stem cell function is controlled by changes in stem cell activation and self-renewal or by changes in the proliferation, migration, differentiation, or survival of the progeny of stem cell activation, the downstream progenitor cells. Three-dimensional porous scaffolds promote new tissue formation by providing a surface and void volume that promotes the attachment, migration, proliferation, and desired differentiation of connective tissue progenitors throughout the region where new tissue is needed. Critical variables in scaffold design and function include the bulk material or materials from which it is made, the three-dimensional architecture, the surface chemistry, the mechanical properties, the initial environment in the area of the scaffold, and the late scaffold environment, which is often determined by degradation characteristics. Local presentation or delivery of bioactive molecules can change the function of connective tissue progenitors (activation, proliferation, migration, differentiation, or survival) in a manner that results in new or enhanced local tissue formation. All cells require access to substrate molecules (oxygen, glucose, and amino acids). A balance between consumption and local delivery of these substrates is needed if cells are to survive. Transplanted cells are particularly vulnerable. Theoretical calculations can be used to explore the relationships among cell density, diffusion distance, and cell viability within a graft and to design improved strategies for transplantation of connective tissue progenitors. Rational strategies for tissue engineering seek to optimize new tissue formation through the logical selection of conditions that modulate the performance of connective tissue progenitors in a graft site to produce a desired tissue. This increasingly involves strategies that combine cells, matrices, inductive stimuli, and techniques that enhance the survival and performance of local or transplanted connective tissue progenitors.
Umbilical cord stromal cells (UCSC). Cells featuring osteogenic differentiation potential]	The identification of appropriate cell types is necessary to establish cell-based therapies in regenerative medicine. These cell types must (1) be available in an appropriate amount, (2) be easy to obtain, (3) be sufficiently expandable in vitro, and (4) fit to or at least be able to differentiate into the required cell type. Since the umbilical cord is available without any intervention and represents a notable amount of tissue, we consider it to be a promising source for isolating cells for cell-based therapies. This study demonstrates that umbilical cord stromal cells (UCSC), the connective tissue cells of the umbilical cord, can be isolated in sufficient quantities and be well expanded. UCSC feature phenotypic plasticity and thus are functionally similar to stem cells. UCSC can be differentiated into cells with osteoblastic properties (expression of alkaline phosphatase, formation of bone nodules). It is concluded that the umbilical cord should no longer be regarded as valueless tissue and be unthinkingly discarded. Instead, it should be considered a valuable resource for the isolation of potent cells for cell-based therapies, especially for treatment of bone defects.
Highly efficient baculovirus-mediated gene transfer into rat chondrocytes.	To explore the potential of baculovirus serving as a gene delivery vector in tissue engineering of articular cartilage, the efficiencies of baculovirus-mediated gene delivery into primary rat chondrocytes were evaluated and the transduction protocol commonly employed by others (using concentrated virus at multiplicity of infection [MOI] 200 for 1 h) was found to be ineffective (<1%). Therefore, a modified protocol was adopted, which markedly enhanced the efficiency (68%). Optimization of the transduction parameters, such as incubation time (8 h), temperature (25 degrees C), and surrounding solutions (PBS), further increased the efficiency to 88% and prolonged the duration of expression to 21 days, suggesting that the cells previously considered nonpermissive to baculovirus transduction may be reexamined for their permissiveness using alternative transduction protocols. The elevated efficiency correlated well with increased virus uptake upon extended incubation time, as demonstrated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). The Q-PCR also revealed the degradation of viral DNA over culture time. Although the virus transduction somewhat hindered the cell proliferation, growth rate could be restored in the long-term culture. More importantly, transduced cells could secrete articular cartilage-specific type II collagen and glycosaminoglycan as well as mock-transduced cells, confirming that normal differentiation state of rat chondrocytes is retained upon baculovirus transduction. Taken together, these data indicate that baculovirus is a safe and highly efficient gene delivery vehicle into rat chondrocytes.
Rapid formation of functional muscle in vitro using fibrin gels.	The transition of a muscle cell from a differentiated myotube into an adult myofiber is largely unstudied. This is primarily due to the difficulty of isolating specific developmental stimuli in vivo and the inability to maintain viable myotubes in culture for sufficient lengths of time. To address these limitations, a novel method for rapidly generating three-dimensional engineered muscles using fibrin gel casting has been developed. Myoblasts were seeded and differentiated on top of a fibrin gel. Cell-mediated contraction of the gel around artificial anchors placed 12 mm apart culminates 10 days after plating in a tubular structure of small myotubes (10-microm diameter) surrounded by a fibrin gel matrix. These tissues can be connected to a force transducer and electrically stimulated between parallel platinum electrodes to monitor physiological function. Three weeks after plating, the three-dimensional engineered muscle generated a maximum twitch force of 329 +/- 26.3 microN and a maximal tetanic force of 805.8 +/- 55 microN. The engineered muscles demonstrated normal physiological function including length-tension and force-frequency relationships. Treatment with IGF-I resulted in a 50% increase in force production, demonstrating that these muscles responded to hormonal interventions. Although the force production was maximal at 3 wk, constructs can be maintained in culture for up to 6 wk with no intervention. We conclude that fibrin-based gels provide a novel method to engineer three-dimensional functional muscle tissue and that these tissues may be used to model the development of skeletal muscle in vitro.
Enzymatic stabilization of gelatin-based scaffolds.	The definitive goal of this research is to develop protein-based scaffolds for use in soft tissue regeneration, particularly in the field of dermal healing. The premise of this investigation was to characterize the mechanical properties of gelatin cross-linked with microbial transglutaminase (mTGase) and to investigate the cytocompatibility of mTGase cross-linked gelatin. Dynamic rheological analysis revealed a significant increase in the storage modulus and thermal stability of gelatin after cross-linking with mTGase. Static, unconfined compression tests showed an increase in Young's modulus of gelatin gels after mTGase cross-linking. A comparable increase in gel strength was observed with 0.03% mTGase and 0.25% glutaraldehyde cross-linked gelatin gels. In vitro studies using 3T3 fibroblasts indicated cytotoxicity at a concentration of 0.05% mTGase after 72 h. However, no significant inhibition of cell proliferation was seen with cells grown on lower concentrations of mTGase cross-linked gelatin substrates. The mechanical improvement and cytocompatibility of mTGase cross-linked gelatin suggests mTGase has potential for use in stabilizing gelatin gels for tissue-engineering applications.
Turning on stem cell cardiogenesis with extremely low frequency magnetic fields.	Modulation of stem cell differentiation is an important assignment for cellular engineering. Embryonic stem (ES) cells can differentiate into cardiomyocytes, but the efficiency is typically low. Here, we show that exposure of mouse ES cells to extremely low frequency magnetic fields triggered the expression of GATA-4 and Nkx-2.5, acting as cardiac lineage-promoting genes in different animal species, including humans. Magnetic fields also enhanced prodynorphin gene expression, and the synthesis and secretion of dynorphin B, an endorphin playing a major role in cardiogenesis. These effects occurred at the transcriptional level and ultimately ensued into a remarkable increase in the yield of ES-derived cardiomyocytes. These results demonstrate the potential use of magnetic fields for modifying the gene program of cardiac differentiation in ES cells without the aid of gene transfer technologies and may pave the way for novel approaches in tissue engineering and cell therapy.
FGF-2 enhances the mitotic and chondrogenic potentials of human adult bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) expanded with and without fibroblast growth factor (FGF) supplementation were compared with respect to their proliferation rate, ability to differentiate along the chondrogenic pathway in vitro, and their gene expression profiles. hMSCs expanded in FGF-supplemented medium were smaller and proliferated more rapidly than hMSCs expanded in control conditions. Chondrogenic cultures made with FGF-treated cells were larger and contain more proteoglycan than those made with control cells. Furthermore, aggregates of FGF-treated cells lacked the collagen type I-positive and collagen type II-negative outer layer characteristic of aggregates of control cells. A total of 358 unique transcripts were differentially expressed in FGF-treated hMSCs. Of these, 150 were upregulated and 208 downregulated. Seventeen percent of these genes affect proliferation. Known genes associated with cellular signaling functions comprised the largest percentage ( approximately 20%) of differentially expressed transcripts. Eighty percent of differentially expressed extracellular matrix-related genes were downregulated. The present findings that FGF-2 enhances proliferation and differentiation of hMSCs adds to a growing body of evidence that cytokines modulate the differentiation potential and, perhaps, the multipotentiality of adult stem cells. With the generation of gene expression profiles of FGF-treated and control cells we have taken the first steps in the elucidation of the molecular mechanism(s) behind these phenomena.
Synergistic effect of shear stress and streptavidin-biotin on the expression of endothelial vasodilator and cytoskeleton genes.	Dual ligand treatment of streptavidin(SA)-biotin and fibronectin (Fn) enhances the adhesion of endothelial cells (EC) onto synthetic surfaces and promotes the quiescent phenotype of adherent EC. The current study investigates the effect of the dual ligand on the expression of endothelial genes in static culture and under shear stress (4 h at 10 dynes/cm2). Expression of 23 genes in the classes of signaling, cytoskeleton/ECM, vasoregulation, and shear-responsive were examined. Eight genes (argininosuccinate synthetase, K+ channel, TGFbeta, Mn-SOD, alpha-tubulin, t-PA, COX2, and eNOS) were significantly upregulated by shear stress. Two genes (caveolin-1 and ET-1) were downregulated by shear stress. Three genes (RhoA, elastin, alpha-actinin) were upregulated by the dual ligand treatment in static culture, and four genes (FAK, elastin, COX2, and eNOS) were upregulated when the dual ligand and shear stress were applied simultaneously. Northern blot analyses on FAK, RhoA, elastin, and alpha-actinin revealed similar results. The results suggest (1) the use of SA-biotin to supplement EC adhesion enhances the integrity of the EC cytoskeleton by upregulating the expression of cytoskeleton/ECM genes, and (2) a likely relationship between the expression of cytoskeleton/ECM genes and the downstream events, such as the shear-induced expression of eNOS and COX2 genes. Analyses presented in this study provide insights into the mechanism by which SA-biotin-supplemented EC mediate gene expression.
Telomerase activity and telomere length of human mesenchymal stem cells. Changes during osteogenic differentiation]	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) exhibit properties of self-renewal and differentiation. Assuming that telomerase activity is associated with self-renewal, it might be useful to identify and define hMSC on the basis of their telomerase status. However, telomerase activity in hMSC remains a controversial issue. Therefore, the aim of our study was to investigate telomerase activity in proliferating and highly proliferating hMSC and to measure telomerase activity and changes in telomere restriction fragment (TRF) length of confluent hMSC and of osteogenically differentiated hMSC. For tissue engineering applications scaffolds should be seeded with cells that have not lost their ability to self-replicate and differentiate during in vitro cell culture. Telomerase activity could be used to characterise and isolate these cells.
In vivo and in vitro bone regeneration from cord blood derived mesenchymal stem cells]	Mesenchymal stem cells with an osteoblastic differentiating potency are investigated in regard of probable tissue engineering for further clinical application. The following report describes the use of cord blood derived stem cells as an alternative to other stem cell populations for bone regenerating tissue engineering.
Tissue engineering of bone. Integration and migration of human mesenchymal stem cells in colonized contructs in a murine model]	Tissue engineering opens up new ways for therapy of bone defects. Therefore, the aim of this study was to establish a mouse model to investigate local cell growth of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) on the scaffold in vivo. Moreover, migration of cells to other organs should be excluded.hMSC (Cambrex, USA) were cultivated according to supplier's recommendations. After inoculation on cylindric scaffolds, one matrix cell construct and one scaffold without hMSC were implanted subcutaneously left and right paravertebrally in athymic nude mice. After 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks constructs and organs were harvested for immunohistological evaluation and PCR. In conclusion, we found integration of scaffolds loaded with hMSC implanted ectopically. HMSC seeded on 3D scaffolds survived for a period of up to 12 weeks. In addition, we could not detect hMSC in any other organ of the host.
Microscale multilayer cocultures for biomimetic blood vessels.	Living tissues have complex and well-organized microstructures. Although microtechnology has been used to create in vivo-like cell microstructures in vitro, most available microscale systems are two-dimensional, and few three-dimensional (3D) systems have been explored. This article demonstrates a 3D hierarchical biomimetic multilayer microsystem created by a generally applicable technique. The technique employs layer-by-layer microfluidics to build layers of cells and biopolymers in microchannels, allowing controlled patterning of cells and their microenvironments in the x, y, and z-dimension. As a prototype, a multilayer system was created using three vascular cell types within heterogeneous types of biopolymers to mimic the structure and composition of a blood vessel wall. The effects of matrix composition and multilayer configurations on 3D cell-cell interactions and cell biology were revealed. Cell migration in the z-dimension, matrix remodeling, intercellular adhesion molecule expression and actin organization were examined under different 3D coculture conditions. A more biomimetic coculture was found to reproduce a more stable structure and in vivo-like function. This approach provides a method to fabricate microscale hierarchical "neotissues" with 3D configurations of matrix materials and multiple cell types, and an in vitro cell coculture model to understand 3D processes of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions.
The engineering of tissues using progenitor cells.	The "engineering" of a tissue implies that it can be constructed by assembling the necessary components. However, tissues are formed through an evolving, interactive process, not through a collection of parts. This chapter focuses on the biology of the progenitor cell, the native precursor to new tissue, and its role in neogenesis, or the de novo generation of functional tissue. We present a working hypothesis for the generation of parenchymal cell populations and use this hypothesis as a basis for analysis of three parenchymal populations, epidermal cells, hepatocytes of the liver, and pancreatic islets, with a view toward what impact this information will have on the development of cell therapies. By comparing developmental processes, response to injury and disease, and behavior in vitro, we conclude that the adult progenitor cell retains the potential for substantial growth and organ neogenesis and that its biological properties make it the cell of first choice for the engineering of tissues.
Photofabricated gelatin-based nerve conduits: nerve tissue regeneration potentials.	There is a strong demand for development of nerve guide conduit with prompt nerve regeneration potential for injury-induced nerve defect. Prior to study on nerve tissue engineering using Schwann cells or nerve stem cells, the effectiveness of photofabricated scaffolds based on photocurable gelatin was examined. This study describes the evaluation of in vivo nerve tissue regeneration potentials of three custom-designed and -fabricated prostheses (inner diameter, 1.2 mm; outer diameter, 2.4 mm; wall thickness, 0.60 mm; and length, 15 mm) made of photocured gelatin: a plain photocured gelatin tube (model I), a photocured gelatin tube packed with bioactive substances (laminin, fibronectin, and nerve growth factor) coimmobilized in a photocured gelatin rod (model II), and a photocured gelatin tube packed with bioactive substances coimmobilized in multifilament fibers (model III). These prostheses were implanted between the proximal and distal stumps 10 mm of the dissected right sciatic nerve of 70 adult male Lewis rats for up to 1 year. The highest regenerative potentials were found using the model III prosthesis, followed by the model II prosthesis. Markedly retarded neural regeneration was observed using the model I prosthesis. These were evaluated from the viewpoints of functional recovery, electrophysiological responses, and tissue morphological regeneration. The significance of the synergistic cooperative functions of multifilaments, which serve as a platform that provides contact guidance to direct longitudinal cell movement and tissue ingrowth and as a cell adhesive matrix with high surface area, and immobilized bioactive substances, which enhance nerve regeneration via biological stimulation, is discussed.
Generation of a synthetic lymphoid tissue-like organoid in mice.	Stromal cells play an important role in the formation of the normal organized microarchitecture of secondary lymphoid organs. Here we demonstrate that a tissue-engineered, lymphoid tissue-like organoid, which was constructed by transplantation of stromal cells embedded in biocompatible scaffolds into the renal subcapsular space in mice, had an organized tissue structure similar to secondary lymphoid organs. This organoid contained compartmentalized B-cell and T-cell clusters, high endothelial venule-like vessels, germinal centers and follicular dendritic cell networks. Furthermore, the organoid was transplantable to naive normal or severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice, and antigen-specific, IgG-isotype antibody formation could be induced soon after intravenous administration of the antigen. This simplified system of lymphoid tissue-like organoid construction will facilitate analyses of cell-cell interactions required for development of secondary lymphoid organs and efficient induction of adaptive immune responses, and may have possible applications in the treatment of immune deficiency.
Micro patterning of cell and protein non-adhesive plasma polymerized coatings for biochip applications.	Micro scale patterning of bioactive surfaces is desirable for numerous biochip applications. Polyethyleneoxide-like (PEO-like) coating with non-fouling functionality has been deposited using low frequency AC plasma polymerization. The non-fouling properties of the coating were tested with human cells (HeLa) and fluorescence labeled proteins (isothiocyanate-labeled bovine serum albumin, i.e. FITC-BSA). The PEO-like coatings were fabricated by plasma polymerization of 12-crown-4 (ppCrown) with plasma polymerized hexene (ppHexene) as adhesion layer. The coatings were micro patterned using conventional cleanroom photolithography and lift-off. Single cell arrays showed sharp contrast in cell adhesion between the untreated glass surface and the ppCrown layer. Similarly, proteins adsorbed selectively to untreated glass but not to ppCrown. The simplicity of the lift-off technique and the sturdiness and versatility of the plasma-polymerized coatings, make this technology highly suitable for bio-MEMS and biochip applications, where patterned high contrast non-fouling surfaces are needed.
Injectable cartilage tissue engineering.	Cartilage is the tissue that lines the surface of bones in articulating joints, allowing painless joint movement. Cartilage loss is an increasingly significant problem, particularly with the ageing of active baby boomers, with few efficacious treatments available at present. Tissue engineering is a field that has evolved over recent years to combat tissue loss by providing a living tissue equivalent or substitute that can mimic the properties of the lost tissue. The general strategy of tissue engineering is to place cells on a biomaterial scaffold that is designed to promote cell function and form new tissue. This review describes the status of materials that are available as injectable scaffolds for tissue engineering and the numerous cell types that can be applied to cartilage repair, including cells derived from cartilage and stem cells. The current state of injectable cartilage tissue engineering and the hurdles that remain for widespread clinical application are discussed.
Cartilage formation by serial passaged cultured chondrocytes in a new scaffold: hybrid 75:25 poly(L-lactide-epsilon-caprolactone) sponge.	This study was designed to determine whether multipled chondrocytes immersed in a new scaffold, 75:25 poly(L-lactide-epsilon-caprolactone) sponge coated with type I collagen (75-PLC scaffold), could be used to generate cartilage tissue in vivo and to evaluate the correlation between cartilage generation and the phenotype of the proliferated chondrocytes.
Biodegradable PLGA microcarriers for injectable delivery of chondrocytes: effect of surface modification on cell attachment and function.	Poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microspheres were prepared by an oil/water emulsion solvent evaporation method to use as an injectable microcarrier for cell delivery. Three different kinds of PLGA microspheres having hydrophobic, negatively charged, and positively charged surfaces were prepared. Hydrophobic and negatively charged PLGA microspheres were prepared by using terminally capped and uncapped PLGA polymer, respectively. Positively charged PLGA microspheres were prepared by blending PLGA with PLGA-g-poly(L-lysine) graft copolymer as a surface modifying agent. Bovine chondrocytes were cultured on the three PLGA microspheres under serum conditions to comparatively evaluate cell attachment, cell proliferation, and cell function with respect to surface properties. Positively charged PLGA microspheres showed the highest cell attachment, growth, and function compared to hydrophobic and negatively charged microspheres. Surface-modified PLGA microspheres can potentially be used as an injectable delivery system for cells into a tissue defect site.
Embryonic stem cells generate airway epithelial tissue.	Embryonic stem (ES) cells are self-renewable and pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass of a blastocyst-stage embryo. ES cell pluripotency is being investigated increasingly to obtain specific cell lineages for therapeutic treatments and tissue engineering. Type II alveolar epithelial cells have been derived from murine ES cells, but the capacity of the latter to generate differentiated airway epithelial tissue has never been reported. Herein, we show by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry that murine ES cells are able to differentiate into nonciliated secretory Clara cells, and that type I collagen induces this commitment. Moreover, when cultured at the air-liquid interface, ES cells give rise to a fully differentiated airway epithelium. By quantitative histologic examination, immunohistochemistry, and scanning electron microscopy, we show that the bioengineered epithelium is composed of basal, ciliated, intermediate, and Clara cells, similar to those of native tracheobronchial airway epithelium. Transmission electron microscopy and Western blotting reveal that the generated epithelium also exhibits the ultrastructural features and secretory functions characteristic of airway epithelial tissue. These results open new perspectives for cell therapy of injured epithelium in airway diseases, such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia, cystic fibrosis, or bronchiolitis obliterans.
Relationship between gene transfer and cartilage tissue engineering]	Injury to the articular cartilage occurs under various pathological conditions such as trauma, inflammation and aging and is followed by osteoarthritic changes of the affected joints. Recently, some studies have revealed that enough chondrogenic proliferation was required using some factors such as TGF-beta and BMPs. We, also, have reported that synovial tissues include multipotent mesenchymal stem cells, which can differentiate into chondrocytes. These results suggest that not only are synovial cells a good therapeutic target of inflammatory joint diseases, but also can be utilized for tissue engineering of cartilage.
Tissue engineered cartilage for biological repair of cartilage defects]	Recent developments in tissue engineering techniques in cartilage repair were discussed. Recently, the novel two-step method, the alginate-recovered-chondrocyte method (ARC method), which does not require the aid of an exogenous synthetic matrix, was developed. The first step of this method consists of culturing phenotypically stable chondrocytes under conditions optimal for the formation of a proteoglycan-rich cell-associated matrix (CM) in alginate beads. Then, the cells with their CM are recovered from the alginate and allowed to rapidly integrate into a solid mass of tissue on a culture insert with a porous membrane. The use of a growth factor, recombinant human osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1) maximized the formation of tissue engineered cartilaginous tissue from adult human articular cartilage. Using the ARC method, the enhancement of matrix formation by OP-1 will produce a larger volume of tissue-engineered cartilage to cover large defects.
Allogenic transplantation of human mesenchymal stem cells for tissue engineering purposes: an in vitro study]	Due to their plasticity and high proliferation capacity in vitro, human mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are promising candidates for tissue engineering approaches of mesenchymal tissues like bone, cartilage, or tendon. Undifferentiated MSC do not express immunologically relevant cell surface markers. They inhibit the proliferation of allogeneic T-cells in vitro and elicit no immune response after allogeneic or xenogenic transplantation. Thus, MSC ought to be seen as immunoprivileged or immunomodulating cells. Here, we characterize the immune status and -behavior of MSC and MSC-derived osteogenic precursors in order to evaluate the usefulness of allogeneic MSC for tissue engineering of bone. Human MSC were isolated from bone marrow of hematologically normal voluntary donors. Osteogenic differentiation was induced by adding dexamethasone, ascorbic acid and beta-glycerophosphate. After 0, 8, 16 and 24 days, MSC were co-cultivated with allogeneic mononuclear cells. In parallel, the expression of immunologically relevant cell surface markers was monitored by flow cytometry. Undifferentiated and differentiated MSC did not stimulate allogeneic lymphocytes. MSC were negative for MHC-II, CD40, CD40L, CD80 (B7-1) and CD86 (B7-2), positive for MHC-I, and kept this expression pattern during osteogenic differentiation. Our results support the hypothesis that MSC are immunoprivileged cells which are potentially at disposal for HLA-incompatible cell replacement therapies.
Effects of mechanical strain on human osteoblastic precursor cells in type I collagen matrices]	The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of mechanical strain on human osteoblastic precursor cells in a three-dimensional scaffold.
Construction of a tissue engineering skin containing capillary-like network]	To construct a tissue engineering skin containing capillary-like network by employing tissue engineering method.
Perfusion of medium with supplemented growth factors changes metabolic activities and cell morphology of hepatocyte-nonparenchymal cell coculture.	To develop a feasible perfusion-type bioartificial liver device, perfusion of hepatocyte-nonparenchymal cell (NPC) cocultures with medium supplemented with hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) was carried out. On day 1 of culture, perfusion at a constant shear stress of 1.3 dyn/cm2 enhanced ammonia metabolic and urea synthetic activities of hepatocytes. These enhanced activities were sustained up to day 7 only when growth factors were present. In contrast, no beneficial effects of growth factors on these activities were observed in static cultures. In perfusion cultures, three-dimensional cell aggregates were formed. On the surface of these aggregates, flattened cell layers composed mainly of NPCs were found, and the central cluster of cell aggregates was composed of round-shaped hepatocytes and reticulin fibrils. These observations strongly suggested that the reconstruction of different types of liver cells and connective tissues formed tissue-mimicking cell aggregates in the perfusion culture that was able to modulate the liver-specific functions of hepatocytes. Thus, perfusion culture conditions of the hepatocyte--NPC coculture system should be appropriately designed to induce suitable reconstruction of the cultured cells for use as a bioartificial liver device.
Integrative repair of cartilage with articular and nonarticular chondrocytes.	Articular chondrocytes can synthesize new cartilaginous matrix in vivo that forms functional bonds with native cartilage. Other sources of chondrocytes may have a similar ability to form new cartilage with healing capacity. This study evaluates the ability of various chondrocyte sources to produce new cartilaginous matrix in vivo and to form functional bonds with native cartilage. Disks of articular cartilage and articular, auricular, and costal chondrocytes were harvested from swine. Articular, auricular, or costal chondrocytes suspended in fibrin glue (experimental), or fibrin glue alone (control), were placed between disks of articular cartilage, forming trilayer constructs, and implanted subcutaneously into nude mice for 6 and 12 weeks. Specimens were evaluated for neocartilage production and integration into native cartilage with histological and biomechanical analysis. New matrix was formed in all experimental samples, consisting mostly of neocartilage integrating with the cartilage disks. Control samples developed fibrous tissue without evidence of neocartilage. Ultimate tensile strength values for experimental samples were significantly increased (p < 0.05) from 6 to 12 weeks, and at 12 weeks they were significantly greater (p < 0.05) than those of controls. We conclude that articular, auricular, and costal chondrocytes have a similar ability to produce new cartilaginous matrix in vivo that forms mechanically functional bonds with native cartilage.
Long-term intermittent compressive stimulation improves the composition and mechanical properties of tissue-engineered cartilage.	Tissue engineering of articular cartilage is a promising alternative for cartilage repair. However, it has been difficult to develop tissue in vitro that mimicks native cartilage. Cartilaginous tissue formed in vitro does not accumulate enough extracellular matrix, is deficient in collagen, and possesses only a fraction of the mechanical properties of native cartilage. In this study, we investigated whether long-term intermittent compressive stimulation would improve the quality of the generated tissue. Chondrocyte cultures were established on the surface of porous calcium polyphosphate substrates and allowed to form cartilaginous tissue. In vitro-formed tissues were subjected to different stimulation protocols for 1 week. The optimal mechanical stimulation parameters identified in this short-term study were then applied to the cultures for up to 4 weeks. Mechanical stimulation applied at a 5% compressive amplitude at a frequency of 1 Hz for 400 cycles every second day resulted in the greatest increase in collagen synthesis (37 +/- 9% over control) while not significantly affecting proteoglycan synthesis (2 +/- 8% over control). This condition, applied to the chondrocyte cultures for 4 weeks, resulted in a significant increase in the amount of tissue that formed (stimulated, 2.4 +/- 0.2 mg dry wt; unstimulated, 1.61 +/- 0.08 mg dry wt). Stimulated tissues contained approximately 40% more collagen (stimulated, 590 +/- 58 microg; unstimulated, 420 +/- 42 microg), and 30% more proteoglycans (stimulated, 393 +/- 34 microg; unstimulated, 302 +/- 32 microg) as well as displaying a 2- to 3-fold increase in compressive mechanical properties (maximal equilibrium stress: stimulated, 10 +/- 1 kPa; unstimulated, 5 +/- 1 kPa; maximal equilibrium modulus: stimulated, 80 +/- 23 kPa; unstimulated, 24 +/- 6 kPa). The results of this study demonstrate that intermittent mechanical stimulation can increase collagen synthesis and, when applied over a 4-week period, can accelerate extracellular matrix accumulation as well as improve the material properties of the developed tissue. Interestingly, only short periods of mechanical stimulation (6 min every second day) were needed to affect the quality of cartilaginous tissue formed in vitro.
Green fluorescent protein is a stable morphological marker for schwann cell transplants in bioengineered nerve conduits.	Bioengineered systems incorporate cultured cells to mimic the substituted tissue. A labeling method is necessary to monitor the survival of transplanted cells within the host. This labeling method must be compatible with the histochemical methods used for morphological analysis. This study assessed (1) The in vitro characteristics of Schwann cells (SCs) labeled with green fluorescent protein (GFP), (2) the in vivo effect of transplanted GFP-SCs in a model of peripheral nerve injury, and (3) the compatibility of GFP-SCs with immunofluorescence histochemical techniques. SCs were retrovirally labeled with GFP and their growth characteristics were compared with those of nontransduced SCs (ntSCs). GFP-SCs were seeded in a resorbable nerve conduit for grafting into a 1-cm gap in rat sciatic nerve. Grafts were harvested after 2 weeks and immunofluorescent staining was performed to measure axonal and SC regeneration distances and to identify GFP-SCs. Results of GFP-SC vitality assays did not vary significantly from those of ntSC assays. GFP-SCs were readily located ex vivo and stimulated significantly better axonal and SC regeneration distances in comparison with empty conduits. These findings show that GFP labeling does not have a deleterious effect on SCs and that it is a useful labeling method for the study of bioengineered systems.
Molecular and functional characterization of ovine cardiac valve-derived interstitial cells in primary isolates and cultures.	At present the involvement of cardiac valve interstitial cells (VICs) in growth, repair, and tissue engineering is understudied. Therefore, this study aims at characterizing ovine VICs in order to provide a solid base for tissue engineering of heart valves. Ovine ICs of the four heart valves were isolated by the explant outgrowth method and expanded in vitro up to passage 5. Vimentin and collagen I gene expression from freshly isolated or cultured ICs was measured by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Immunocytochemical stainings of vimentin, alpha-smooth muscle actin (ASMA), smooth muscle myosin, and procollagen I were performed on aortic VICs. In addition, migration and extracellular matrix deposition were studied in vitro in aortic VICs. ICs show stable vimentin and collagen I expression in culture. Expression is approximately doubled in cultured ICs compared with fresh isolates. More than 95% of ICs in each passage stain for vimentin and procollagen I. Freshly isolated ICs are ASMA and myosin negative, but ICs in culture partially stain for these contractile markers. ICs have stable matrix production for up to five passages, associated with stable migration of the cells. We conclude that ovine valve interstitial cells undergo phenotypic modulation to activated myofibroblasts under culture conditions but retain stable matrix production.
Comparison of in vitro mineralization by murine embryonic and adult stem cells cultured in an osteogenic medium.	Nearly half a million bone-grafting procedures occurred in the United States in the year 2000. Tissue-engineered bone substitutes may mitigate difficulties associated with current grafting options. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) could be a potential cell source for bone substitutes; however, direct comparisons between ESCs and other cell sources are lacking. Here we provide a direct, long-term, in vitro comparison of mineralization processes in adult, marrow-derived, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and ESCs from the 129/Sv+c/+p mouse strain. MSCs were observed to grow at a slower rate than ESCs. MSCs expressed seven times more alkaline phosphatase (AP) per cell than did ESCs and immediately showed type I collagen and osteocalcin production. ESCs also produced type I collagen and osteocalcin, but production was delayed. Mineral deposition by ESCs was nearly 50 times higher than by MSCs. Spectroscopic analysis showed the calcium-to-phosphorus ratio (Ca:P) of the ESC mineral (1.26:1) to be significantly higher than that of the MSCs (0.29:1), but still 25% lower than hydroxyapatite (1.67:1). Addition of basic fibroblast growth factor significantly inhibited AP expression, mineral deposition, and Ca:P ratios in MSCs and had little effect on ESCs. These functional characteristics may assist with cell selection for purposes of bone tissue engineering.
Effects of transforming growth factor beta1 on bonelike tissue formation in three-dimensional cell culture. I. Culture conditions and tissue formation.	Bone tissue engineering based on growing bone marrow stromal cells on poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) fiber meshes suffers from limited matrix production and mineralization when the cells are cultured with the standard differentiation supplements (dexamethasone, beta-glycerophosphate, and ascorbic acid). To overcome this problem we included transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1), which is described as playing a key role in collagen type I formation, although its effect on mineralization is controversially discussed. The investigations focused on establishing culture conditions for the application of TGF-beta1 in three-dimensional cell culture and on the effects of different doses of TGF-beta1 (1-20 ng/mL) on bonelike extracellular matrix formation. Immunohistochemical staining showed that TGF-beta1 enhanced the formation of procollagen type I, collagen type I, and collagen type V, especially under dynamic culture conditions (orbital shaker). A long-term study confirmed positive effects on the formation of extracellular matrix, which penetrated the scaffold to a depth of 250 to 300 microm. Mineralization, qualified by scanning electron microscopy in combination with energy-dispersive X-ray analysis and evaluated by determination of the Ca2+ content per scaffold, was up to 1.7-fold increased by TGF-beta1 compared with the control. In conclusion, the growth factor TGF-beta1 seems to be effective in improving extracellular bonelike matrix formation in vitro.
Effects of transforming growth factor beta1 on bonelike tissue formation in three-dimensional cell culture. II: Osteoblastic differentiation.	We supplemented rat marrow stromal cells (rMSCs) seeded on poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) fiber meshes with transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) to improve bone tissue formation for tissue engineering. Whereas our first study (Lieb, E., et al. Tissue Eng. 10, 1399-1413, 2004) investigated the effects of TGF-beta1 on matrix formation and mineralization, this second study focused on the differentiation of rMSCs to the osteoblastic phenotype in dynamic cell culture (orbital shaker). We assessed a series of bone markers to determine a dosing regimen for TGF-beta1 that enhances collagenous matrix formation and preserves or increases osteoblastic differentiation. Bone sialoprotein and osteonectin formation were investigated immunohistochemically and by RT-PCR. For alkaline phosphatase activity (ALP), we employed an enzyme assay. Osteocalcin was examined by RT-PCR as well as by an immunoassay. Whereas bone sialoprotein appeared to be dose-dependently increased in the immunochemistical stainings after supplementation with TGF-beta1, osteonectin remained unchanged. Both ALP activity and osteocalcin were suppressed by high doses of TGF-beta1, such as single doses of 10 ng/mL or four doses of 1 ng/mL added once a week. Considering the effects of TGF-beta1 both on differentiation and on matrix formation and mineralization, TGF-beta1 at 1 ng/mL, added once a week in the first 1 to 2 weeks, was selected as an effective dose to improve bonelike tissue formation in vitro.
Coculture of mesenchymal stem cells and respiratory epithelial cells to engineer a human composite respiratory mucosa.	In this study, we describe a novel in vitro reconstitution system for tracheal epithelium that could be useful for investigating the cellular and molecular interaction of epithelial and mesenchymal cells. In this system, a Transwell insert was used as a basement membrane on which adult bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were cultured on the lower side whereas normal human bronchial epithelial (NHBE) cells were cultured on the opposite upper side. Under air-liquid interface conditions, the epithelial cells maintained their capacity to progressively differentiate and form a functional epithelium, leading to the differentiation of mucin-producing cells between days 14 and 21. Analysis of apical secretions showed that mucin production increased over time, with peak secretion on day 21 for NHBE cells alone, whereas mucin secretion by NHBE cells cocultured with MSCs remained constant between days 18 and day 25. This in vitro model of respiratory epithelium, which exhibited morphologic, histologic, and functional features of a tracheal mucosa, could help to understand interactions between mesenchymal and epithelial cells and mechanisms involved in mucus production, inflammation, and airway repair. It might also play an important role in the design of an composite prosthesis for tracheal replacement.
Differentiation of osteoblasts from murine embryonic stem cells by overexpression of the transcriptional factor osterix.	Osterix is a transcription factor crucial for the normal development of the osteoblast. Here we have investigated whether the osteogenic differentiation of murine embryonic stem (ES) cells can be induced by overexpression of osterix. Differentiation was initiated by formation of embryoid bodies (EB) which were then dispersed and cultured in alpha-minimum essential medium supplemented with L-ascorbate phosphate and alpha-glycerophosphate for up to 21 days. osterix was found to induce expression of several osteoblast-specific markers, as confirmed by immunostaining and real-time RT-PCR. The expression of genes encoding osteocalcin and Cbfa1 was upregulated and the formation of mineralized bone nodules was significantly increased by osterix transfection. In combination with dexamethasone, bone nodule formation was further increased in osterix-transfected cells. Expression of both Sox-9 and PPAR-gamma, genes that are associated with chondrocyte and adipocyte differentiation, was initially increased in the osterix-transfected cells but was downregulated after day 7. This suggests that the process of osterix-induced differentiation of ES cells involves transition through an intermediate bi- or tripotential progenitor cell population. In conclusion, this cell differentiation strategy is useful not only for generating osteoblastic cells from ES cells, but also for investigating factors that influence this process and potentially delineating the ontogeny of the osteoblast.
Cellular utilization determines viability and matrix distribution profiles in chondrocyte-seeded alginate constructs.	The long-term success of any cellular construct used for cartilage tissue engineering is dependent on the maintenance of cell viability throughout the construct thickness. Furthermore, the cells must continue to be metabolically active in order to synthesize a mechanically functional extracellular matrix (ECM). In the present study, a live-dead staining technique and systematic profiling procedure enabled the spatial and temporal distribution of chondrocyte viability to be characterized within 4-mm-thick alginate scaffolds. ECM distribution after 14 days of culture is described both biochemically and histologically and the mechanical functionality of the constructs was assessed by an unconfined compression test. Parameters investigated included alginate permeability, cell-seeding density, and volume of culture medium. Nonhomogeneity of cell and matrix distribution was evident, with greater densities of both parameters in the periphery of the constructs. The culture time preceding central viability loss was inversely related to cell density but relatively independent of scaffold density. However, homogeneity could be attained with increasing medium volume, as evidenced with cell and matrix distribution for cultures in 6.4 mL of medium per 10(6) cells. Moreover, the mechanical properties of the construct were enhanced by culture in increasing volumes of medium. This work indicates that cellular utilization determines the nonhomogeneous nature of cartilage formation in three-dimensional constructs and presents a guide to nonlimiting medium volumes for static culture conditions.
Adhesion and growth of bone marrow stromal cells on modified alginate hydrogels.	Alginate is a biodegradable, immunocompatible biopolymer that is capable of immobilizing viable cells and bioactive factors. Few investigations have analyzed the efficacy of alginate gels as substrata for cell attachment and proliferation. Here we have compared the adhesion and subsequent growth of human and rat bone marrow stromal fibroblastic cells on unmodified alginate hydrogel surfaces. It was found that, in contrast to rat cells, human cells did not readily attach or proliferate on unmodified alginates. In attempts to enhance these features, or collagen type I was incorporated into the gels, with no significant improvements in prolonged human cell adherence. However, alginate gels containing both collagen type I and beta-tricalcium phosphate were found to enhance human cell adherence and proliferation. Furthermore, interactions between the collagen and beta-tricalcium phosphate prevented loss of the protein from the hydrogels. These results indicate that alginate gels containing collagen have potential uses as vehicles for delivery of adherent cells to a tissue site. In addition, gels containing beta-tricalcium phosphate, with or without collagen type I incorporation, have potential to support cell growth and differentiation in vitro before implantation. This study emphasizes the limitations of the uses of cells derived from experimental animals in certain model studies relating to human tissue engineering.
Modulation of angiogenic potential of collagen matrices by covalent incorporation of heparin and loading with vascular endothelial growth factor.	One of the prominent shortcomings of matrices for tissue engineering is their poor ability to support angiogenesis. We report here on experiments to enhance the angiogenic properties of collagen matrices. Our aim is to achieve this goal by covalently incorporating heparin into collagen matrices and by physically immobilizing angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) to the heparin. The immobilization of heparin was performed with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide (EDC) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS). Carboxyl groups on the heparin are activated to succinimidyl esters, which react with amino functions on the collagen to zero length cross-links. This modification leads--in addition to the incorporation of heparin--to gross changes in in vitro degradation behavior and water-binding capacity. As a first approach to testing angiogenic capabilities, endothelial cells were exposed to nonmodified and heparinized collagen matrices. This exposure leads to an increase in endothelial cell proliferation. The increase can be further enhanced by loading the (heparinized) collagen matrices with VEGF. Evaluation of the angiogenic potential of heparinized matrices was further investigated by exposing them to the chorioallantoic membrane of chicken embryos and to the subcutaneous tissue of rats. Both approaches show that heparinized matrices have substantially increased angiogenic potential. In particular, the loading of heparinized matrices with VEGF invokes a further increase in angiogenic potential. It is apparent that the physical binding of VEGF to heparin allows for a release that is beneficial to angiogenesis. By varying the heparin and EDC/NHS concentrations during the modification process and by varying the loading with VEGF, the angiogenic potential as well as the degradation behavior can be adapted to obtain matrices that fulfill specific angiogenic requirements in the field of tissue engineering.
Mechanical properties and cellular proliferation of electrospun collagen type II.	A suitable technique for articular cartilage repair and replacement is necessitated by inadequacies of current methods. Electrospinning has potential in cartilage repair by producing scaffolds with fiber diameters in the range of native extracellular matrix. Chondrocytes seeded onto such scaffolds may prefer this environment for differentiation and proliferation, thus approaching functional cartilage replacement tissue. Scaffolds of collagen type II were created by an electrospinning technique. Individual scaffold specimens were prepared and evaluated as uncross-linked, cross-linked, or crosslinked/seeded. Uncross-linked scaffolds contained a minimum and average fiber diameter of 70 and 496 nm, respectively, whereas cross-linked scaffolds possessed diameters of 140 nm and 1.46 microm. The average thickness for uncross-linked scaffolds was 0.20 +/- 0.02 mm and 0.52 +/- 0.07 mm for cross-linked scaffolds. Uniaxial tensile tests of uncross-linked scaffolds revealed an average tangent modulus, ultimate tensile strength, and ultimate strain of 172.5 +/- 36.1 MPa, 3.3 +/- 0.3 MPa, and 0.026 +/- 0.005 mm/mm, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy of cross-linked scaffolds cultured with chondrocytes demonstrated the ability of the cells to infiltrate the scaffold surface and interior. Electrospun collagen type II scaffolds produce a suitable environment for chondrocyte growth, which potentially establishes the foundation for the development of articular cartilage repair.
Incorporation of intact elastin scaffolds in tissue-engineered collagen-based vascular grafts.	Although collagen-based tissue-engineered blood vessels (TEBVs) have many interesting properties and have been utilized to study aspects of vascular biology, these constructs are too weak to be implanted as bypass grafts for in vivo investigations. This study presents a method to incorporate organized, intact elastin into collagen-based TEBVs to form hybrid constructs that better mimic arterial physiology and exhibit improved mechanical properties. Porcine carotids were digested with a series of autoclave and chemical treatments to elicit isolated elastin scaffolds. Elastin purity was verified via immunohistochemistry and amino acid analysis. Isolated scaffolds were combined with type I collagen and either human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) or rat smooth muscle cells (RASMs) to form an elastin hybrid TEBV. Hybrid constructs exhibited increased tensile strengths (11-fold in HDFs; 7.5-fold in RASMs) and linear stiffness moduli (4-fold in HDFs; 1.8-fold in RASMs) compared with collagen control constructs with no exogenous elastin scaffold. Viscoelastic properties of the TEBVs also improved with the addition of an ancillary elastin scaffold as determined through stepwise stress relaxation analysis. Whereas the majority of resistance to deformation in collagen control constructs stemmed from viscous fluidlike effects, elastin hybrid constructs exhibited more ideal elastic solid mechanical behavior. Thus, elastin scaffolds can help recreate the elastic properties of native arteries. Future challenges include stimulating appropriate reorganization or synthesis of the collagen matrix to provide the necessary strength and viscoelastic properties for implantation.
Modulation of in vitro angiogenesis in a three-dimensional spheroidal coculture model for bone tissue engineering.	One of the major challenges in tissue engineering of bone substitutes remains vascularization of the transplant. We have developed a three-dimensional collagen-based coculture system to assess interactions between human endothelial cells (hECs) and human osteoblasts (hOBs) in vitro. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were grown as three-dimensional multicellular spheroids and seeded in a collagen matrix to assess sprouting of the spheroids, that is, formation of tubelike structures resembling early capillaries. Direct cell contact between hOBs and HUVECs was established by incorporating hOBs into the EC spheroids, thus forming heterogeneous cospheroids. Spatial organization of cospheroids and sprout configuration were assessed by immunohistochemical wholemount staining techniques and confocal laser microscopy. Cumulative sprout length of spheroids was quantitatively analyzed by digital imaging planimetry. In this model HUVECs and hOBs formed heterogeneous cospheroids with distinct spatial organization. The ability of HUVEC spheroids to form tubelike structures on angiogenic stimulation with vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor was suppressed in heterogeneous HUVEC/hOB cospheroids. The model system introduced in this study may be useful to assess the mechanisms involved in regulating angiogenesis during bone formation and to further investigate the mechanisms by which heterotypic cell-cell interactions inhibit endothelial tube formation for applications in bone tissue engineering.
Human fibroblast migration in three-dimensional collagen gel in response to noninvasive electrical stimulus. I. Characterization of induced three-dimensional cell movement.	Cell adhesion and motility is one of the important biological processes involved in cell growth, differentiation, inflammatory response, and wound healing, and in engineered tissue constructs. Because cellular behaviors can be influenced by the local electrical environment within tissues, induced cell orientation, adhesion, and migration by exogenous electrical stimulus have been extensively examined on two-dimensional (2D) substrates. Similar cellular responses in 3D matrix have not been well documented, however. We have therefore used the 3D collagen gel as a model to characterize human fibroblast movement in response to noninvasive DC electrical stimulus. Cell movements were compared by plating the cells on 2D substrates and embedding them into the reconstituted 3D collagen gel. Our results indicate that 3D cell movement is regulated by both electrical stimulus strength and collagen concentration. For example, a small noninvasive electrical stimulus (0.1 V/cm) was found to be sufficient to induce 3D cell migration, and a collagen concentration of 0.58 mg/mL appeared to represent the optimal scaffold network environment. The same electrical stimulus did not induce significant 2D cell movement, however. Typical cell migration was best analyzed by assuming both directed and random movement and that, in response to an electrical stimulus of 0.1 V/cm, the cell migration rate was 0.23 microm/min and the random motility coefficient was 0.07 microm2/min. Because regulation of cell adhesion and migration is often desired in tissue engineering, the ability to apply physical stimulus and to control 3D cell movement may provide an alternative methodology for regulation of engineered tissue constructs.
Human fibroblast migration in three-dimensional collagen gel in response to noninvasive electrical stimulus. II. Identification of electrocoupling molecular mechanisms.	Cell adhesion and migration is regulated by a series of coordinated and integrated molecular mechanisms. In the accompanying article (Sun et al., Tissue Eng. 10, 1548, 2004), we demonstrate and characterize the human fibroblast movement in three-dimensional (3D) collagen gel induced by non-invasive electrical stimulus. The molecular mechanisms mediating 3D cell migration in response to physical stimuli including noninvasive electrical stimulus remain to be elucidated, however. Here we report that induced human fibroblast movement in 3D collagen gel is both integrin and Ca2+ dependent. Treatment of cells with anti-integrin antibodies prevents electrically induced cell movement. More interestingly, whereas the absence of extracellular Ca2+ suppresses cell movement, inhibition of the cell surface receptor-coupled phospholipase C (PLC) completely prevents 3D cell migration, suggesting molecular association between integrin, PLC, and intracellular Ca2+. Coupling of external electrical stimulus to PLC activation appears to be the primary event required to induce cell migration, while Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane regulates the sustained cell movement. On the basis of the rather small strength (0.1 V/cm) of electrical stimulus used in this study, activation of the electrically operated voltage-gated Ca2+ channels is unlikely, but the mechanically operated stretch-activated cation channels appear to mediate Ca2+ influx. Elucidation of the electrocoupling molecular mechanisms involved in 3D cell movement could lead to controlled and designed manipulation of 3D cell adhesion and migration.
Three-dimensional bioassembly tool for generating viable tissue-engineered constructs.	The primary emphasis of tissue engineering is the design and fabrication of constructs for the replacement of nonfunctional tissue. Because tissue represents a highly organized interplay of cells and extracellular matrix, the fabrication of replacement tissue should mimic this spatial organization. This report details studies evaluating the use of a three-dimensional, direct-write cell deposition system to construct spatially organized viable structures. A direct-write bioassembly system was designed and fabricated to permit layer-by-layer placement of cells and extracellular matrix on a variety of material substrates. Human fibroblasts suspended in polyoxyethylene/polyoxypropylene were coextruded through a positive displacement pen delivery onto a polystyrene slide. After deposition, approximately 60% of the fibroblasts remained viable. Bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) suspended in soluble collagen type I were coextruded via microdispense pen delivery onto the hydrophilic side of flat sheets of polyethylene terephthalate. After deposition with a 25-gauge tip, approximately 86% of the BAECs were viable. When maintained in culture for up to 35 days, the constructs remained viable and maintained their original spatial organization. These results indicate the potential for utilizing a direct-write, three-dimensional bioassembly tool to create viable, patterned tissue-engineered constructs.
Efficacy of engineered liver tissue based on poly-L-lactic acid scaffolds and fetal mouse liver cells cultured with oncostatin M, nicotinamide, and dimethyl sulfoxide.	To assess the feasibility of liver tissue equivalents based on selective propagation and differentiation of hepatocyte progenitors in three-dimensional (3D) culture, the efficacy of fetal mouse liver cells cultured in poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) scaffolds in the presence of nicotinamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, and oncostatin M was investigated both in vitro and in vivo. The albumin production of PLLA-cultured fetal mouse liver cells in the presence of these three factors was remarkably enhanced with culture time, and after 4 weeks it attained almost the same production found in adult mouse hepatocytes cultured for 3 days in PLLA scaffolds, based on the unit DNA amount. In addition, implantation of engineered liver tissue based on this in vitro PLLA culture system into the peritoneal cavity of 70% hepatectomized mice showed a remarkably higher presence of albumin-positive engrafted cells 15 days after the operation when compared with fetal mouse liver cells or adult mouse hepatocytes freshly isolated and cultured for 1 day. These results demonstrate that the basic concept regarding the engineering of liver tissue equivalents based on in vitro selective propagation and differentiation of hepatocyte progenitors in 3D biodegradable scaffolds shows promise for future liver tissue engineering.
Influence of culture method on the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of human adipo-stromal cells in nonwoven fabrics.	The initial attachment, proliferation, and osteogenic differentiation of stromal cells from human fat tissue were investigated in three-dimensional nonwoven fabrics prepared from polyethylene terephthalate (PET) fiber with different diameters. The largest number of cells initially attached was observed in the nonwoven fabrics prepared from PET fiber with a diameter of 22.0 microm, irrespective of fabric porosity. The number of cells attached was larger and the cells were distributed more homogeneously in the fabrics by the agitated seeding method than by the static seeding method. The culture method depended on the time profile of cell proliferation. Cell proliferation improved in the following order: stirred (spinner flask) culture method > agitated culture method > static culture method. In addition, cells proliferated homogeneously in fabrics by the stirred culture method. When evaluated as a measurement of cell osteogenic differentiation, the activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was not influenced by the diameter of fabrics. The static culture method tended to enable cells to enhance ALP activity, in contrast with the stirred and agitated culture methods. It is concluded that fabric fiber diameter and culture method greatly affected the proliferation and differentiation of cells in nonwoven fabrics.
Multilineage differentiation of ectomesenchymal cells isolated from the first branchial arch.	Cranial neural crest-derived ectomesenchymal cells may be pluripotent stem cells that are capable of generating a range of phenotypes. The fate of these cells appears to be determined in part by intrinsic genetic programs and also by the influence of extracellular signals in the local environment. The extent of lineage determination once neural crest cells have migrated to the first branchial arch is not clear, although branchial arch pattern is not thought to be the result of crest predetermination. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that ectomesenchymal cells of the first branchial arch show properties of pluripotent stem cells, the lineage of which may be directed by specific molecular signaling. Ectomesenchymal cells were enzymatically isolated from the mandibular processes of BALB/c mice and maintained in an undifferentiated state while cultured with leukemia inhibitory factor or induced to differentiate by lineage-specific induction factors or growth conditions, including transforming growth factor beta, forskolin, and a mineralization-promoting medium. Morphological observations and immunocytochemistry demonstrated that cells could be induced to differentiate into smooth muscle cells, glial cells, and osteoblasts, respectively. In the presence of the mineralization-promoting medium, alkaline phosphatase activity increased significantly and mineralization nodules formed. The data reported support the concept that many, although not all, first branchial arch-derived ectomesenchymal cells show properties of multipotent stem cells, the subsequent fate of which can be influenced by induction factors and growth conditions. Some cells, however, showed a degree of commitment with respect to their fate. The possible application of first branchial arch-derived stem cells to tissue engineering of the orofacial tissues should involve consideration of the developmental stage of cell harvesting and the desired cell fate.
Fetal bone cells for tissue engineering.	We envision the use of human fetal bone cells for engineered regeneration of adult skeletal tissue. A description of their cellular function is then necessary. To our knowledge, there is no description of human primary fetal bone cells treated with differentiation factors. The characterization of fetal bone cells is particularly important as the pattern of secreted proteins from osteoblasts has been shown to change during aging. In the first part of this work, human primary fetal bone cells were compared to adult bone cells and mesenchymal stem cells for their ability to proliferate and to differentiate into osteoblasts in vitro. Cell proliferation, gene expression of bone markers, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, and mineralization were analyzed during a time-course study. In the second part of this paper, bone fetal cells behavior exposed to osteogenic factors is further detailed. The doubling time of fetal bone cells was comparable to mesenchymal stem cells but significantly shorter than for adult bone cells. Gene expression of cbfa-1, ALP, alpha1 chain of type I collagen, and osteocalcin were upregulated in fetal bone cells after 12 days of treatment, with higher inductions than for adult and mesenchymal stem cells. The increase of ALP enzymatic activity was stronger for fetal than for adult bone cells reaching a maximum at day 10, but lower than for mesenchymal stem cells. Importantly, the mineralization process of bone fetal cells started earlier than adult bone and mesenchymal stem cells. Proliferation of fetal and adult bone cells was increased by dexamethasone, whereas 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 did not show any proliferative effect. Mineralization studies clearly demonstrated the presence of calcium deposits in the extracellular matrix of fetal bone cells. Nodule formation and calcification were strongly increased by the differentiation treatment, especially by dexamethasone. This study shows for the first time that human primary fetal bone cells could be of great interest for bone research, due to their fast growth rate and their ability to differentiate into mature osteoblasts. They represent an interesting and promising potential for therapeutic use in bone tissue engineering.
Vascularization and gene regulation of human endothelial cells growing on porous polyethersulfone (PES) hollow fiber membranes.	Open-cell hollow fibers made of polyethersulfone (PES) manufactured in the absence of solvents with pore diameters smaller than 100 microm were examined for vascularization by human endothelial cells. The goal of this study was to determine whether the 3-D porous character of the PES surface affected human endothelial cell morphology and functions. Freshly isolated human endothelial cells from the skin (HDMEC), from the lung (HPMEC) and from umbilical cords (HUVEC) and two human endothelial cell lines, HPMEC-ST1.6R and ISO-HAS.c1 were added to PES fibers and cell adherence and growth was followed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Prior coating of PES with gelatin or fibronectin was necessary for adhesion and spreading of cells over the uneven porous surface with time. Confluent cells exhibited typical strong PECAM-1 expression at cell-cell borders. Little expression of the activation markers E-selectin, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 was observed by RT-PCR of endothelial cells growing on PES. However, after stimulation for 4h by LPS, activation of these markers was observed and it was shown by immunofluorescent staining that induction occurred in most of the cells, thus confirming an intact functionality. Finally, cells growing as a monolayer on PES migrated to form microvessel-like structures when placed under conditions that stimulated angiogenesis. Thus, human endothelial cells grown on fibronectin-coated PES fibers retain important endothelial-cell specific morphological and functional properties and PES may serve as a useful biomaterial in tissue engineering and biotechnology applications.
Effects of crystallization of polyhydroxyalkanoate blend on surface physicochemical properties and interactions with rabbit articular cartilage chondrocytes.	As a new member of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) family, poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyhexanoate) (PHBHHx) has better mechanical properties compared with poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB). Still, many properties of PHBHHx and its blend with PHB may be exploited for a wide range of applications, such as tissue engineering and drug delivery. In this study, PHBHHx was found to be completely miscible with PHB in their blends. Crystallization behavior of these polyester blends played an important role in determination of the surface physicochemical properties including surface free energy, chemical states and polarity, and could subsequently govern the cellular responses. Interaction between PHB and PHBHHx influenced the non-dispersion surface free energy component, which governed the total surface free energy. It was shown that the blend with a 1:1 ratio of PHB/PHBHHx possessed the highest surface free energy, which was the most optimal material for chondrocytes adhesion. After 24 h, the amount of chondrocytes adhered on films of PHB/PHBHHx (1:1) was 2.1 x 10(4)cells/cm(2), 5-times more compared with that on the PHB films (0.4 x 10(4)cells/cm(2)). The polarity of the blends increased with decreasing crystallinity. After 8 days of cultivation, the chondrocytes attached on PHB films were surrounded by both collagen II and collagen X, the amount of extracellular collagen X decreased with increasing polarity contributed by increasing PHBHHx content in the blend, while chondrocytes changed shapes from spherical to flat with increasing polarity. It indicated that endochondral ossification of chondrocytes was remarkably influenced by the crystallinity of the polyesters.
3D microenvironment as essential element for osteoinduction by biomaterials.	In order to unravel the mechanism of osteoinduction by biomaterials, in this study we investigated the influence of the specific surface area on osteoinductive properties of two types of calcium phosphate ceramics. Different surface areas of the ceramics were obtained by varying their sintering temperatures. Hydroxyapatite (HA) ceramic was sintered at 1150 and 1250 degrees C. Biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP) ceramic, consisting of HA and beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP), was sintered at 1100, 1150 and 1200 degrees C. Changes in sintering temperature did not influence the chemistry of the ceramics; HA remained pure after sintering at different temperatures and the weight ratio of HA and beta-TCP in the BCP was independent of the temperature as well. Similarly, macroporosity of the ceramics was unaffected by the changes of the sintering temperature. However, microporosity (pore diameter <10 microm) significantly decreased with increasing sintering temperature. In addition to the decrease of the microporosity, the crystal size increased with increasing sintering temperature. These two effects resulted in a significant decrease of the specific surface area of the ceramics with increasing sintering temperatures. Samples of HA1150, HA1250, BCP1100, BCP1150 and BCP1200 were implanted in the back muscles of Dutch milk goats and harvested at 6 and 12 weeks post implantation. After explantation, histomorphometrical analysis was performed on all implants. All implanted materials except HA1250 induced bone. However, large variations in the amounts of induced bone were observed between different materials and between individual animals. Histomorphometrical results showed that the presence of micropores within macropore walls is necessary to make a material osteoinductive. We postulate that introduction of microporosity within macropores, and consequent increase of the specific surface area, affects the interface dynamics of the ceramic in such a way that relevant cells are triggered to differentiate into the osteogenic lineage.
Engineering of volume-stable adipose tissues.	Autologous adipose tissues have been clinically used for augmentation of soft tissues lost due to mastectomy or lumpectomy in plastic and reconstructive surgery. However, this therapy has problems of absorption and subsequent volume loss of the implanted adipose tissues. In this study, volume-stable adipose tissues were engineered in vivo using mechanical support structures fabricated from biodegradable synthetic polymers. Dome-shaped mechanical support structures were fabricated by reinforcing poly(glycolic acid) fiber-based matrices with poly(L-lactic acid). The support structures were placed into subcutaneous pockets of athymic mice, and human preadipocytes suspended in fibrin matrix were injected into the space under the support structures (group I). Injection of either fibrin matrix without preadipocytes under the support structures (group II) or fibrin matrix containing preadipocytes into subcutaneous spaces with no support structures (group III) served as controls. Six weeks after implantation, the original implant volume was maintained approximately in groups I and II, whereas, group III showed significant implant shrinkage. The compressive modulus of the mechanical support structures did not change significantly over 6-week incubation in phosphate-buffered saline at 37 degrees C. Histological analyses of the implants showed regeneration of adipose tissues in group I. In contrast, groups II and III did not show extensive adipose tissue formation. This study demonstrates that volume-stable adipose tissues can be engineered in vivo using mechanical support structures. This technique offers the potential for augmentation of adipose tissues with volume conservation.
Osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells in biodegradable sponges composed of gelatin and beta-tricalcium phosphate.	Biodegradable gelatin sponges incorporating various amounts of beta-tricalcium phosphate (betaTCP) (gelatin-betaTCP) were fabricated and the in vitro osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) isolated from the rat bone marrow in the sponges was investigated. The gelatin sponges incorporating betaTCP have an interconnected pore structure with the average size of 180-200 microm, irrespective of the betaTCP amount. The stiffness of the sponges became higher with an increase in the amount of betaTCP. When seeded into the sponges by an agitated method, MSC were homogeneously distributed throughout the sponge. The morphology of cells attached got more spreaded with the increased betaTCP amount. The rate of MSC proliferation depended on the betaTCP amount and culture method: the higher the betaTCP amount in the stirring culture, the higher the proliferation rate. The deformed extent of gelatin-betaTCP sponges was suppressed with the increased amount of betaTCP. When measured to evaluate the osteogenic differentiation of MSC, the alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin content became maximum for the sponge with a betaTCP amount of 50 wt%, although both the values were significantly high in the stirring culture compared with those in the static culture. We concluded that the attachment, proliferation, and osteogenic differentiation of MSC were influenced by sponge composition of gelatin and betaTCP as the cell scaffold.
Synthesis, bioactivity and specificity of glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-37)/polymer conjugate to isolated rat islets.	In order to increase the functionality of islets encapsulated in a biohybrid artificial pancreas (BAP), it was proposed that co-encapsulation with insulinotropic agents would improve insulin secretion from islets. To prevent agents from leaking out, conjugation with high-molecular-weight polymers was inevitable. In this study, synthetic glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) (7-37) was conjugated to a water-soluble polymer, poly(N-vinyl-2-pyrroridone-co-acrylic acid) (5 mol% acrylic acid, M(w) 445 kDa), via poly(ethylene glycol, M(w) 3.4 kDa) spacer. The chemical conjugation was confirmed by reverse phase-HPLC and the GLP-1 content in the GLP-1/polymer conjugate (VAPG) was determined by UV spectrophotometry at 280 nm (ca. 29 wt/wt%). In a static insulin secretion test, the VAPG increased insulin secretion up to 200% over a control (no stimulation) at high glucose levels, although the insulinotropic activity of VAPG was slightly lower than that of native GLP-1. The bioactivity of VAPG was prolonged for at least 2 weeks, which was examined by co-encapsulation of the conjugate into islet microcapsules. Dose-response curve revealed that the half-maximal effective dose (ED(50)) of VAPG was about 55 nm (25 nm for native GLP-1). By N-terminal analysis using aminopeptidase and RP-HPLC, it was confirmed that the lowered bioactivity of VAPG stemmed from the polymer conjugation to N-terminal histidine moieties, which actively participate in binding to GLP-1 receptors, resulting in only 16% of N-terminal histidine remaining intact after the conjugation reaction. Finally, the specific interaction of the VAPG with isolated rat islets was investigated. Total cellular cyclic AMP levels were measured and confocal microscopy was conducted using GLP-1 and VAPG labeled with fluorescent probes. It was found that VAPG effectively increased the cAMP level in islet cells in a glucose concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, the confocal microscopy study showed that the binding of VAPG occurs at the same location where GLP-1 binds but with less affinity than that of native GLP-1. In summary, a GLP-1/polymer conjugate was synthesized for the first time, and its bioactivity was examined, which must result from its specific interaction with isolated islets.
Alginate microcapsules prepared with xyloglucan as a synthetic extracellular matrix for hepatocyte attachment.	In this study, xyloglucan (XG) was used as a new synthetic extracellular matrix (ECM) for primary mouse hepatocyte attachment in Ca-alginate (AL) capsules. The rates of hepatocytes adhesion onto collagen type I-, XG-coated and uncoated polystyrene (PS) surface were 89.1%, 91.1% and 25.5%, respectively, at 4 h after incubation at 37 degrees C. From the inhibition study in a cell adhesion assay, the adhesion rates of freshly isolated hepatocytes and preincubated hepatocytes with 20 mm galactose onto the XG-coated surface were 55.7 and 17.3%, respectively, after 30 min incubation at 37 degrees C. Flow cytometric analysis showed that the internalization of XG by freshly isolated hepatocytes was stronger than preincubated hepatocytes with 20 mm galactose. The concentration of XG in AL/XG capsules to perform the best liver-specific functions was 0.5 mg/ml, where the highest albumin secretion rates were obtained. The albumin secretion, ammonia elimination rates and cell viability of hepatocytes were slowly decreased with culture time in AL/XG capsules, whereas those were rapidly decreased in AL capsules, indication of the more rapid formation of hepatocyte spheroids in AL/XG capsules than in AL capsules. More than 70% of the seeded hepatocytes in AL/XG capsules participated in spheroid formation after 2 days, whereas most hepatocytes in AL capsules remained as single cells and only a few cells began to form aggregates after 3 days. Intercellular molecule genes, such as connexin (Cx) 32 and E-cadherin, of hepatocyte spheroids in AL or AL/XG capsules were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Cx32 and E-cadherin genes in AL/XG capsules were more rapidly reexpressed and expressed, respectively, than in AL ones. The results suggest that the multicellular spheroid formation of hepatocytes can enhance the liver-specific functions in the three-dimensional space in the presence of XG as a new synthetic ECM owing to the specific interaction between the galactose moieties of XG and asialoglycoprotein receptors of hepatocytes.
Repair of articular cartilage defects treated by microfracture and a three-dimensional collagen matrix.	The objective of our study was to evaluate the behavior of ovine chondrocytes and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) on a matrix comprising type-I, -II, and -III collagen in vitro, and the healing of chondral defects in an ovine model treated with the matrix, either unseeded or seeded with autologous chondrocytes, combined with microfracture treatment. For in vitro investigation, ovine chondrocytes and BMSC were seeded on the matrix and cultured at different time points. Histological analysis, immunohistochemistry, biochemical assays for glycosaminoglycans, and real-time quantitative PCR for collagens were performed. The animal study described here included 22 chondral defects in 11 sheep, divided into four treatment groups. Group A: microfracture and collagen matrix seeded with chondrocytes; B: microfracture and unseeded matrices; C: microfracture; D: untreated defects. All animals were sacrificed 16 weeks after implantation, and a histomorphometrical and qualitative evaluation of the defects was performed. The in vitro investigation revealed viable cells up to 3 weeks; chondrocytes had a predominantly round morphology, produced glycosaminoglycans, and expressed both collagen markers, whereas BMSC stained positive for antibodies against type-II collagen; however, no mRNA for type-II collagen was amplified. All treatment groups of the animal model showed better defect filling compared to untreated knees. The cell-seeded group had the greatest quantity of repair tissue and the largest quantity of hyaline-like tissue. Although the collagen matrix is an adequate environment for BMSC in vitro, the additionally implanted unseeded collagen matrix did not increase the repair response after microfracture in chondral defects. Only the matrices seeded with autologous cells in combination with microfracture were able to facilitate the regeneration of hyaline-like cartilage.
A comparative study of biphasic calcium phosphate ceramics for human mesenchymal stem-cell-induced bone formation.	For the repair of bone defects, a tissue engineering approach would be to combine cells capable of osteogenic (i.e. bone-forming) activity with an appropriate scaffolding material to stimulate bone regeneration and repair. Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), when combined with hydroxyapatite/beta-tricalcium phosphate (HA/TCP) ceramic scaffolds of the composition 60% HA/40% TCP (in weight %), have been shown to induce bone formation in large, long bone defects. However, full repair or function of the long bone could be limited due to the poor remodeling of the HA/TCP material. We conducted a study designed to determine the optimum ratio of HA to TCP that promoted hMSC induced bone formation yet be fully degradable. In a mouse ectopic model, by altering the composition of HA/TCP to 20% HA/80% TCP, hMSC bone induction occurred at the fastest rate in vivo over the other formulations of the more stable 100% HA, HA/TCP (76/24, 63/37, 56/44), and the fully degradable, 100% TCP. In vitro studies also demonstrated that 20/80 HA/TCP stimulated the osteogenic differentiation of hMSCs as determined by the expression of osteocalcin.
Cooperative modulation of neuritogenesis by PC12 cells by topography and nerve growth factor.	Understanding axonal formation and contact guidance are of critical importance for the design of materials that interface with neuronal tissue. Contact guidance of neurites by topographic features is well known, but the role that topography plays in the modulation of neuritogenesis has not been addressed. To test this, we cultured PC12 cells with a range of nerve growth factor (NGF) concentrations on surfaces with ridge widths ranging from 70 to 1900 nm. We find that neuritogenesis by PC12 cells cultured with sub-optimal concentrations of NGF (25 and 5 ng/ml) is modulated by topographic feature size. The threshold for induction of neuritogenesis was markedly reduced when cells were cultured on ridges of 70 and 250 nm. In contrast, contact guidance of neurites was independent of feature size. These results suggest that the scale of topographic features can act cooperatively with NGF signaling to regulate the formation of neurites. These findings may have general relevance to differentiation processes in neurons as well as in other cell types.
Osteogenic differentiation of rat bone marrow stromal cells cultured on Arg-Gly-Asp modified hydrogels without dexamethasone and beta-glycerol phosphate.	In this study, we investigated the effect of signaling peptides incorporated into oligo(poly(ethylene glycol) fumarate) (OPF) hydrogels on in vitro differentiation and mineralization of marrow stromal cells (MSCs) cultured in media without soluble osteogenic supplements (dexamethasone and beta-glycerol phosphate). When MSCs were cultured for 16 days on OPF hydrogels modified with Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) containing peptides, the normalized cell number was dependent on the peptide concentration between days 0 and 5 and reached comparable values at day 10 regardless of the concentration. The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity of MSCs on the peptide-modified OPF hydrogels was also concentration-dependent: ALP activity showed peaks on day 10 or day 13 on OPF hydrogels modified with 2.0 and 1.0 micromol peptide/g, which were significantly greater than those on the OPF hydrogels modified with 0.1 micromol peptides/g or no peptide. A characteristic marker of osteoblastic differentiation, osteopontin (OPN), was detected for all the test groups. However, OPN secretion between days 0 and 10 was significantly higher on the peptide modified hydrogels compared to that on tissue culture-treated polystyrene. Taken together, the results indicate that the presence of signaling peptide allows for a favorable microenvironment for MSCs to differentiate into osteoblasts and produce mineralized matrix, although the soluble factors may further enhance calcium deposition. These findings further support the usefulness of OPF hydrogels as scaffolds for guided bone regeneration, and represent an initial step in exploring the complex relationship between soluble and insoluble factors in osteogenic differentiation on biodegradable materials.
Micropatterning proteins and cells on polylactic acid and poly(lactide-co-glycolide).	Techniques for micropatterning proteins and cells on biomaterials are important in tissue engineering applications. Here, we present a method for patterning proteins and cells on poly(lactic acid) (PLA) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) substrates that are routinely used as scaffolds in engineering tissues. Poly(oligoethyleneglycol methacrylate) (poly-OEGMA) or poly(oligoethyleneglycol methacrylate-co-methacrylic acid) (poly(OEGMA-co-MA)) was microcontact printed onto substrates to create cell resistant areas. Proteins adsorbed onto the unprinted regions whereas the polymer printed regions effectively repel non-specific protein adsorption. NIH 3T3 fibroblasts remain confined within the patterns on the PLGA and PLA films for up to 2 weeks and aligned their actin cytoskeleton along the line patterns. In comparison to unpatterned cells, fibroblasts confined within line-shaped patterns show fewer actin filaments. This method for controlling the spatial morphology and distribution of cells on synthetic biomaterials could have significant applications in tissue engineering.
Improved cell adhesion and proliferation on synthetic phosphonic acid-containing hydrogels.	Hydrogels with tissue-like mechanical properties are highly attractive scaffolds for tissue engineering. In this study, copolymers containing vinyl phosphonic acid (VPA) and acrylamide (AM) were tested for their swelling, protein uptake in serum supplemented medium, and cell adhesion and proliferation. The swelling of the gels in serum containing culture medium increased with increasing VPA content. The presence of VPA also increased protein uptake of gels in medium; gels polymerized with more than 50% of VPA absorbed as much as 100 microg/cm(2) of protein, twice the amount absorbed by gels made with only acrylamide. The adhesion and growth of the three types of cells, NIH 3T3 fibroblast, osteoblast-like MG-63 and Saos-2, were significantly improved on the gels made with 50% or more VPA; the number of adherent Mg-63 cells increased three-fold while the growth rate increased four-fold. Similar results were obtained for Saos-2 and 3T3 cells. The adhesion and growth of the three cell types on gels with sufficient phosphonate content were at least comparable to, or even better than, that on commercially available tissue culture plates. These results suggest great potential of anionic gels in bone tissue engineering.
Keratinocyte-fibroblast paracrine interaction: the effects of substrate and culture condition.	Interactions between epidermal-dermal cells via soluble factors provide important signals in regulating the reepithelialization of wounded skin. For example, keratinocytes regulate the expression of keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) in fibroblasts through the release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). In this study, a previously developed polyethyleneglycol-based interpenetrating network (IPN) system was utilized as a platform for the delivery of keratinocyte-active factors. The effect of substrate chemistry, culture condition, and the delivery of exogenous keratinocyte-active factors on the keratinocyte behavior and the keratinocyte-fibroblast paracrine relationship was delineated. Adherent keratinocyte density on TCPS and glutaraldehyde-fixed gelatin hydrogels but not on IPN was significantly increased with culture time in the presence of growth supplements independent of the released KGF from the gelatin hydrogel and IPN. In the presence of fibroblasts, adherent keratinocyte density on gelatin hydrogels was higher than that without fibroblasts. This phenomenon was not observed on IPN and polycarbonate membrane. In summary, the delivered exogenous huKGF (i.e., released from a biomaterial matrix) operates in tandem with fibroblasts in regulating keratinocyte activation (i.e., IL-lbeta release and adhesion) in a surface-dependent manner. Immunoassay analysis of cell culture keratinocyte-fibroblast paracrine relationship as characterized by IL-1beta and KGF could not be established in the presence of IPNs, 0.1% glutaraldehyde-fixed gelatin hydrogels, and polycarbonate membranes.
Collagen nerve conduits--assessment of biocompatibility and axonal regeneration.	Bridging of nerve gaps is still a major problem in peripheral nerve surgery. Alternatively to autologous nerve grafts tissue engineering of peripheral nerves focuses on biocompatible conduits to reconstruct nerves. Such non-neural conduits fail to support regeneration over larger gaps due to lacking viable Schwann cells that promote regeneration by producing growth factors and cell guiding molecules. This problem may be overcome by implantation of cultivated Schwann cells into suitable scaffolds. In the present experiments we tested a collagen type I/III tube as a potential nerve guiding matrix. Revascularization, tolerance and Schwann cell settlement were evaluated by light, fluorescence and scanning electron microscopy after different implantation times. The conduits were completely revascularized between day 5 and 7 post-operatively and well integrated into the host tissue. Implanted Schwann cells adhered, survived and proliferated on the inner surface of the conduits. Nevertheless, bridging a 2 cm gap of the sciatic nerve of adult Wistar rats with these collagen/Schwann cell conduits led to a disappointing regeneration compared to controls with autologous grafts. From these results, we conclude that a sufficient biocompatibility of bioartificial nerve conduits is a necessary prerequisite, however, it remains only one of several parameters important for peripheral nerve regeneration.
Design of oligolactone-based scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Novel difunctional oligolactone macromers have been synthesized by ring-opening oligomerization of various lactones (L-lactide, glycolide, p-dioxanone) in the presence of suitable diols (propane-1,2-diol, dianhydro-D-glucitol) and subsequent endcapping of the formed oligolactones with methacrylate moieties. Based on these macromers, two fabrication procedures were developed to fabricate highly porous scaffolds and the material properties including in vitro biodegradation behaviour of the resulting polymeric scaffolds were investigated. Preliminary in vitro studies on the cytocompatibility of the fabricated scaffolds and on osteoblast cultivation on the optimized polymeric materials demonstrated that the oligolactide based polymer networks possess an excellent biocompatibility and that they are promising candidates as scaffolds in bone tissue engineering.
Selective laser sintering of biocompatible polymers for applications in tissue engineering.	The ability to use biological substitutes to repair or replace damaged tissues lead to the development of Tissue Engineering (TE), a field that is growing in scope and importance within biomedical engineering. Anchorage dependent cell types often rely on the use of temporary three-dimensional scaffolds to guide cell proliferation. Computer-controlled fabrication techniques such as Rapid Prototyping (RP) processes have been recognised to have an edge over conventional manual-based scaffold fabrication techniques due to their ability to create structures with complex macro- and micro-architectures. Despite the immense capabilities of RP fabrication for scaffold production, commercial available RP modelling materials are not biocompatible and are not suitable for direct use in the fabrication of scaffolds. Work is carried out with several biocompatible polymers such as Polyetheretherketone (PEEK), Poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA), Polycaprolactone (PCL) and Poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) and a bioceramic namely, Hydroxyapatite (HA). The parameters of the selective laser sintering (SLS) process are optimised to cater to the processing of these materials. SLS-fabricated scaffold specimens are examined using a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). Results observed from the micrographs indicate the viability of them being used for building TE scaffolds and ascertain the capabilities of the SLS process for creating highly porous scaffolds for Tissue Engineering applications.
Chemosynthesis of bioresorbable poly(gamma-butyrolactone) by ring-opening polymerisation: a review.	Recent advances in the synthesis of poly(gamma-butyrolactone) have yielded homopolymers of up to 50,000 Mw from the low-cost monomer gamma-butyrolactone. This monomer has for the better part of a century been thought impossible to polymerise. Poly(gamma-butyrolactone) displays properties that are ideal for tissue-engineering applications and the bacterially derived equivalent, poly(4-hydroxybutyrate) (P4HB), has been evaluated for such uses. The glass transition temperature (-48 to -51 degrees C), melting point (53-60 degrees C), tensile strength (50 MPa), Young's modulus (70 MPa) and elongation at break (1000%) of P4HB make it a very useful biomaterial. Poly(gamma-butyrolactone) degrades to give gamma-hydroxybutyric acid which is a naturally occurring metabolite in the body and it has been shown to be bioresorbable. Investigation into the synthesis of poly(gamma-butyrolactone) has recently produced homo-oligomeric diols 400-1000 Mw that are suitable for reacting with diisocyanates to form polyurethanes. Biodegradable polyurethanes made from diols of polyglycolide (PGA) and poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL) have the disadvantage of high glass transition and slow degradation, respectively. Poly(gamma-butyrolactone) can be thought of as being the missing link in the biodegradable polyester family immediately between PGA and PCL and displaying intermediate properties.
Stable plasma-deposited acrylic acid surfaces for cell culture applications.	Continuous and modulated glow discharges were used to deposit thin films from acrylic acid vapors. Different deposition regimes were investigated, and their effect on chemical composition, morphology and homogeneity of the coatings, as well as on their stability in water and resistance to sterilization. Stable films were utilized in cell adhesion experiments with human fibroblasts.
The effect of bioactive glasses on bone marrow stromal cells differentiation.	Bone marrow is a mixture of hematopoietic, vascular, stromal and mesenchymal cells capable of skeletal repair/regeneration thanks to the ability of bone marrow cells to differentiate into osteoblasts and osteoclasts. This ability is important in tissue regeneration during fracture healing, or for successful osteointegration of implanted prostheses, and in bone remodelling. Therefore, bone marrow cell culture systems seem to be useful and relatively close to in vivo conditions models to study interactions occurring at the cell-material interface of implants directed to hard tissue engineering. The purpose of this study was to investigate the ability of three bioactive glasses (45S, 58S and 77S) to induce osteogenic differentiation and cell mineralisation. A significant effect of the 45S and 77S bioactive materials was seen on early differentiation of the marrow stromal cells into osteoblast-like cells. 45S bioglass evidenced also the highest effect on cell mineralisation at the same level as cells treated with dexametasone, used as positive control. 77S treated cells evidenced also a significant inhibition in the number of multinucleated TRAP-positive cells (ostoclast-like cells) in comparison with the control untreated cells and in marrow cells treated with 45S and 58S bioactive glasses. These findings have potential implications and applications for tissue engineering where three-dimensional bioactive glass substrates could be used as scaffolds for in vitro production of bioengineered bone.
Chitosan-alginate hybrid scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	A biodegradable scaffold in tissue engineering serves as a temporary skeleton to accommodate and stimulate new tissue growth. Here we report on the development of a biodegradable porous scaffold made from naturally derived chitosan and alginate polymers with significantly improved mechanical and biological properties as compared to its chitosan counterpart. Enhanced mechanical properties were attributable to the formation of a complex structure of chitosan and alginate. Bone-forming osteoblasts readily attached to the chitosan-alginate scaffold, proliferated well, and deposited calcified matrix. The in vivo study showed that the hybrid scaffold had a high degree of tissue compatibility. Calcium deposition occurred as early as the fourth week after implantation. The chitosan-alginate scaffold can be prepared from solutions of physiological pH, which may provide a favorable environment for incorporating proteins with less risk of denaturation. Coacervation of chitosan and alginate combined with liquid-solid separation provides a scaffold with high porosity, and mechanical and biological properties suitable for rapid advancement into clinical trials.
Electrospun nano- to microfiber fabrics made of biodegradable copolyesters: structural characteristics, mechanical properties and cell adhesion potential.	Nano- to micro-structured biodegradable poly(L-lactide-co-epsilon-caprolactone) (PLCL) fabrics were prepared by electrospinning. Electrospun microfiber fabrics with different compositions of PLCL (mol% in feed; 70/30, 50/50, and 30/70), poly(L-lactide) (PLL) and poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL) were obtained using methylene chloride (MC) as a solvent. The PLL microfiber exhibited a nanoscale-pore structure with a pore diameter of approximately 200-800 nm at the surface and subsurface regions, whereas such a surface structure was hardly observed in other polymers containing CL. The microfiber fabric made of PLCL 50/50 was elastomeric. Nanoscale-fiber fabrics with PLCL 50/50 (approx. 0.3 or 1.2 microm in diameter) were electrospun using 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP) as a solvent. Mercury porosimetry showed that the decrease in the fiber diameter of the fabric decreased porosity, but increased fiber density and mechanical strength. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were adhered well and proliferated on the small-diameter-fiber fabrics (0.3 and 1.2 microm in diameter), both of which are dense fabrics, whereas markedly reduced cell adhesion, restricted cell spreading and no signs of proliferation were observed on the large-diameter-fiber fabric (7.0 microm in diameter). The potential biomedical application of electrospun PLCL 50/50 was discussed.
Self-cross-linking biopolymers as injectable in situ forming biodegradable scaffolds.	The injectable polymer scaffolds which are biocompatible and biodegradable are important biomaterials for tissue engineering and drug delivery. Hydrogels derived from natural proteins and polysaccharides are ideal scaffolds for tissue engineering since they resemble the extracellular matrices of the tissue comprised of various amino acids and sugar-based macromolecules. Here, we report a new class of hydrogels derived from oxidized alginate and gelatin. We show that periodate-oxidized sodium alginate having appropriate molecular weight and degree of oxidation rapidly cross-links proteins such as gelatin in the presence of small concentrations of sodium tetraborate (borax) to give injectable systems for tissue engineering, drug delivery and other medical applications. The rapid gelation in the presence of borax is attributed to the slightly alkaline pH of the medium as well as the ability of borax to complex with hydroxyl groups of polysaccharides. The effect of degree of oxidation and concentration of alginate dialdehyde, gelatin and borax on the speed of gelation was examined. As a general rule, the gelling time decreased with increase in concentration of oxidized alginate, gelatin and borax and increase in the degree of oxidation of alginate. Cross-linking parameters of the gel matrix were studied by swelling measurements and trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) assay. In general, the degree of cross-linking was found to increase with increase in the degree of oxidation of alginate, whereas the swelling ratio and the degree of swelling decreased. The gel was found to be biocompatible and biodegradable. The potential of the system as an injectable drug delivery vehicle and as a tissue-engineering scaffold is demonstrated by using primaquine as a model drug and by encapsulation of hepatocytes inside the gel matrix, respectively.
The role of muscle-derived stem cells in bone tissue engineering.	The formation of bone and repair of bone defect requires a source of pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells. However, the capacity of the human body to generate bone components is limited. In this report, we show that the highly purified myogenic cells by the preplate technique have the capacity to differentiate into osteogenic lineage in vitro. The recombinant human bone morphogenic protein (rh-BMP-2) was immobilized on the molded gelatin composite. Primary muscle cells were isolated from newborn Wistar-rats calf muscle. The cells were then preplated in collagen-coated flasks. After six serial platings, the culture was enriched with small, round cells [pp6]. The effects of immobilized rhBMP-2 on the gelatin scaffold were evaluated by the analysis of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and osteocalcin in culture medium after seedings of muscle-derived cells [pp6]. The results showed that the cells isolated from pp6 slow adhering cells possessed round mononuclear phenotype, marked ALP stain and matrix mineralization. The synthesis and secretion of ALP from pp6 muscle-derived cells were persistent higher than that of pp1-pp5 groups. The efficacy of rhBMP-2 immobilization on the gelatin scaffolds as manifested as the synthesis and secretion of ALP and osteocalcin from muscle-derived cells was always significantly higher than that of the control samples. In summary, our results suggest that the muscle-derived pp6 cells were capable of inducing and participating in bone formation. These results suggest that muscle tissue is a valuable resource for osteoprogenitor cells to be used in clinical practice to improve bone healing.
Preparation and characterization of highly porous, biodegradable polyurethane scaffolds for soft tissue applications.	In the engineering of soft tissues, scaffolds with high elastance and strength coupled with controllable biodegradable properties are necessary. To fulfill such design criteria we have previously synthesized two kinds of biodegradable polyurethaneureas, namely poly(ester urethane)urea (PEUU) and poly(ether ester urethane)urea (PEEUU) from polycaprolactone, polycaprolactone-b-polyethylene glycol-b-polycaprolactone, 1,4-diisocyanatobutane and putrescine. PEUU and PEEUU were further fabricated into scaffolds by thermally induced phase separation using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a solvent. The effect of polymer solution concentration, quenching temperature and polymer type on pore morphology and porosity was investigated. Scaffolds were obtained with open and interconnected pores having sizes ranging from several mum to more than 150 microm and porosities of 80-97%. By changing the polymer solution concentration or quenching temperature, scaffolds with random or oriented tubular pores could be obtained. The PEUU scaffolds were flexible with breaking strains of 214% and higher, and tensile strengths of approximately 1.0 MPa, whereas the PEEUU scaffolds generally had lower strengths and breaking strains. Scaffold degradation in aqueous buffer was related to the porosity and polymer hydrophilicity. Smooth muscle cells were filtration seeded in the scaffolds and it was shown that both scaffolds supported cell adhesion and growth, with smooth muscle cells growing more extensively in the PEEUU scaffold. These biodegradable and flexible scaffolds demonstrate potential for future application as cell scaffolds in cardiovascular tissue engineering or other soft tissue applications.
Development of an RNA isolation procedure for the characterisation of human endothelial cell interactions with polyurethane cardiovascular bypass grafts.	To date no reliable method has been developed for the isolation of RNA from cells seeded onto cylindrical vascular grafts. This study was performed in order to develop a reliable methodology for isolating RNA from cylindrical conduits made from poly(carbonate-urea)urethane (PU). Human umbilical vein EC were seeded onto PU vascular grafts and an Alamar blue assay performed to assess cell viability. Cells were prepared for RNA extraction by trypsinisation, cell scraping and direct application of cell lysis buffer. In all cases RNA was extracted using a "Qiagen RNeasy" kit. Alamar blue showed viable cells were present on all of the seeded PU vascular grafts. Levels of RNA extracted from the cells removed from the graft by the trypsinisation yielded 0.130 microg/microl, by scraping 0.078 microg/microl and by direct lysing 0.093 microg/microl of RNA, respectively. RTPCR was conducted successfully for GAPDH and TGF-beta1. Trypsinisation prior to RNA extraction provided the highest RNA yield and attained near complete cell removal ensuring that gene expression obtained was representative.
Synthesis and surface engineering of iron oxide nanoparticles for biomedical applications.	Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPION) with appropriate surface chemistry have been widely used experimentally for numerous in vivo applications such as magnetic resonance imaging contrast enhancement, tissue repair, immunoassay, detoxification of biological fluids, hyperthermia, drug delivery and in cell separation, etc. All these biomedical and bioengineering applications require that these nanoparticles have high magnetization values and size smaller than 100 nm with overall narrow particle size distribution, so that the particles have uniform physical and chemical properties. In addition, these applications need special surface coating of the magnetic particles, which has to be not only non-toxic and biocompatible but also allow a targetable delivery with particle localization in a specific area. To this end, most work in this field has been done in improving the biocompatibility of the materials, but only a few scientific investigations and developments have been carried out in improving the quality of magnetic particles, their size distribution, their shape and surface in addition to characterizing them to get a protocol for the quality control of these particles. Nature of surface coatings and their subsequent geometric arrangement on the nanoparticles determine not only the overall size of the colloid but also play a significant role in biokinetics and biodistribution of nanoparticles in the body. The types of specific coating, or derivatization, for these nanoparticles depend on the end application and should be chosen by keeping a particular application in mind, whether it be aimed at inflammation response or anti-cancer agents. Magnetic nanoparticles can bind to drugs, proteins, enzymes, antibodies, or nucleotides and can be directed to an organ, tissue, or tumour using an external magnetic field or can be heated in alternating magnetic fields for use in hyperthermia. This review discusses the synthetic chemistry, fluid stabilization and surface modification of superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles, as well as their use for above biomedical applications.
Photomediated crosslinking of C6-cinnamate derivatized type I collagen.	Synthesis and characterization of cinnamated Type I collagen and its related mechanical properties after photomediated crosslinking were investigated in detail. Using an EDC/NHS conjugation method, collagen was chemically modified to incorporate a photosensitive cinnamate moiety. The cinnamated collagen was fully characterized by 1H NMR, UV-vis, and circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy, as well as by rheological and mechanical analyses. Cinnamated collagens with varying degrees of derivatization retained collagen triple helical structure. The rheological spectra of collagen solutions demonstrate that the storage modulus decreases with increasing cinnamate content, owing to a decrease in physical crosslinking. The kinetics of the crosslinking process in both hydrated gels and dry films were monitored by UV-vis spectroscopy and confirmed that crosslinking was complete within 60 min of irradiation. The uniaxial stress-strain behavior of crosslinked collagen films, including Young's modulus and ultimate tensile strength, was comparable to values reported for glutaraldehyde-crosslinked monomeric collagen films. These data demonstrate that derivatization of collagen with photosensitive cinnamate moieties provides a facile route for solid-state crosslinking, thereby improving the mechanical properties of collagen and enhancing the potential applicability of collagen-based materials in tissue engineering and drug delivery.
Cellular growth under hydrostatic pressure using bovine aortic EC-SMC co-cultured ePTFE vascular graft.	High blood pressure (hypertension) is implicated in the development of atherosclerosis. Blood vessels are constantly subjected to stretch due to blood pressure and changes in stretch usually instigate adaptive vascular remodeling, including abnormal growth and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) as well as extracellular matrix (ECM). In this experiment, we used bovine aortic endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells (EC-SMC) co-cultured ePTFE vascular grafts subjected to normal atmospheric pressure (as a control), and 100 mmHg hydrostatic pressure for 7 d. The increase of cell layer thickness was observed. When measured, the cell layer thickness increased by 116.2%. The increase of collagen (Type IV) synthesis was also observed in the immunohistochemistry assay. When stained with toluidine blue, the cells showed metachromatic phenomenon.
Synthetic biomaterials as instructive extracellular microenvironments for morphogenesis in tissue engineering.	New generations of synthetic biomaterials are being developed at a rapid pace for use as three-dimensional extracellular microenvironments to mimic the regulatory characteristics of natural extracellular matrices (ECMs) and ECM-bound growth factors, both for therapeutic applications and basic biological studies. Recent advances include nanofibrillar networks formed by self-assembly of small building blocks, artificial ECM networks from protein polymers or peptide-conjugated synthetic polymers that present bioactive ligands and respond to cell-secreted signals to enable proteolytic remodeling. These materials have already found application in differentiating stem cells into neurons, repairing bone and inducing angiogenesis. Although modern synthetic biomaterials represent oversimplified mimics of natural ECMs lacking the essential natural temporal and spatial complexity, a growing symbiosis of materials engineering and cell biology may ultimately result in synthetic materials that contain the necessary signals to recapitulate developmental processes in tissue- and organ-specific differentiation and morphogenesis.
Use of bone morphogenetic protein 2 and diffusion chambers to engineer cartilage tissue for the repair of defects in articular cartilage.	To examine the ability of cartilage-like tissue, generated ectopically in a diffusion chamber using recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 2 (rHuBMP-2), to repair cartilage defects in rats.
Quantitative study of tissue-engineered cartilage with human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells.	To assess the possibility of cartilage tissue engineering using human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and to investigate the quantitative relationship between hMSCs and engineered cartilage.
Improving the integrity of three-dimensional vascular patterns by poly(ethylene glycol) conjugation.	Development of functional tissue-engineering constructs may require that multiple cell types be organized in controlled three-dimensional (3-D) microarchitectures with proper nutrient diffusion and vascularization. In the past few years, a variety of microscale techniques have demonstrated the ability to control protein and cell attachment in defined patterns. Nevertheless, maintenance of these patterns over time has been a significant challenge due to nonspecific protein adsorption and cell migration. To this end, we have investigated the effectiveness of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) thin films in maintaining the integrity of 3-D cellular patterns, using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) as a model system. These HUVEC constructs were created using extracellular matrix (ECM)-based microfluidic patterning. Our results indicated that PEG-conjugated substrates improve cell pattern integrity as compared to control silicon. The compliance multifactor (a measure of pattern integrity; higher value means lower pattern integrity) was about 3.66 +/- 0.29 on day 5 for PEG-conjugated surfaces, compared with 8.23 +/- 0.42 for control surfaces ECM-based microfluidic patterning coupled with stable PEG-conjugated surfaces may serve as a vital tool for vascularized tissue engineering.
Directing stem cells into the keratinocyte lineage in vitro.	A major area of research in regenerative medicine is the potential application of stem cells in skin grafting and tissue engineering. This would require well defined and efficient protocols for directing the commitment and differentiation of stem cells into the keratinocyte lineage, together with their selective purification and proliferation in vitro. The development of such protocols would reduce the likelihood of spontaneous differentiation of stem cells into divergent lineages upon transplantation, as well as reduce the risk of teratoma formation in the case of embryonic stem cells. Additionally, such protocols could provide useful in vitro models for studying skin tissue biology, as well as facilitate the genetic manipulation of stem cells for therapeutic applications. The development of pharmacokinetic and cytotoxicity/genotoxicity screening tests for skin-related biomaterials and drugs could also utilize protocols developed for the commitment and differentiation of stem cells into the keratinocyte lineage. Hence, this review critically examines the various strategies that could be employed to direct the commitment and differentiation of stem cells into the keratinocyte lineage in vitro.
Application of a polyelectrolyte complex coacervation method to improve seeding efficiency of bone marrow stromal cells in a 3D culture system.	High seeding efficiency with homogenous distribution of limited cell sources such as bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) are of clinical relevance in scaffold-based tissue engineering. Therefore, considerable research efforts have been invested to ameliorate the seeding efficiency in 3D scaffolds. Preliminary data demonstrated that indeed BMSCs were viable and were able to proliferate in a model 3D scaffold, i.e. Cytomatrix scaffold. However, the eventual practical application of BMSCs in such 3D scaffolds is limited by the low seeding efficiency of the cells within the scaffold. Here, we demonstrated that the cell seeding efficiency of BMSCs in the Cytomatrix scaffold can be improved significantly (t-test, p<0.05) by means of macroencapsulating the scaffold via the complex coacervation of a methylated collagen and terpolymer. The thickness and density of the polyeletrolyte complex can be modulated by the contact time between the methylated collagen and terpolymer to balance between cell entrapment efficacy and mass transfer impedance imparted by the complex. Porcine BMSCs were macroencapsulated in Cytomatrix scaffolds using various polyelectrolyte contact time and cultured under both static and dynamic conditions. Throughout the range of contact time investigated, macroencapsulation did not affect the viability of the porcine BMSCs in dynamic culture. However, the viability of the cells under static cultures was compromised with longer polyelectrolyte contact time. Therefore, this proposed method of macroencapsulation enables customization to achieve enhanced seeding efficiency without mass transfer impedance for different culture configurations.
Release of angiogenic growth factors from cells encapsulated in alginate beads with bioactive glass.	Attempts to stimulate therapeutic angiogenesis using gene therapy or delivery of recombinant growth factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), have failed to demonstrate unequivocal efficacy in human trials. Bioactive glass stimulates fibroblasts to secrete significantly increased amounts of angiogenic growth factors and therefore has a number of potential applications in therapeutic angiogenesis. The aim of this study was to assess whether it is possible to encapsulate specific quantities of bioactive glass and fibroblasts into alginate beads, which will secrete growth factors capable of stimulating angiogenesis. Human fibroblasts (CCD-18Co) were encapsulated in alginate beads with specific quantities of 45S5 bioactive glass and incubated in culture medium (0-17 days). The conditioned medium was collected and assayed for VEGF or used to assess its ability to stimulate angiogenesis by measuring the proliferation of human dermal microvascular endothelial cells. At 17 days the beads were lysed and the amount of VEGF retained by the beads measured. Fibroblasts encapsulated in alginate beads containing 0.01% and 0.1% (w/v) 45S5 bioactive glass particles secreted increased quantities of VEGF compared with cells encapsulated with 0% or 1% (w/v) 45S5 bioactive glass particles. Lysed alginate beads containing 0.01% and 0.1% (w/v) 45S5 bioactive glass contained significantly more VEGF (p<0.01) compared with beads containing no glass particles. Endothelial cell proliferation was significantly increased (p<0.01) by conditioned medium collected from alginate beads containing 0.1% (w/v) 45S5 bioactive glass particles. The results of this study demonstrate that bioactive glass and fibroblasts can be successfully incorporated into alginate beads for use in delivering angiogenic growth factors. With further optimization, this technique offers a novel delivery device for stimulating therapeutic angiogenesis.
Effect of varied release kinetics of the osteogenic thrombin peptide TP508 from biodegradable, polymeric scaffolds on bone formation in vivo.	This study was designed to assess the influence of varied release kinetics of the osteogenic thrombin peptide TP508 from osteoconductive poly(propylene fumarate)-based (PPF) composite scaffolds on bone formation in vivo. Four classes of scaffolds were constructed with different TP508 dosages (200, 100, or 0 microg) and release kinetics (large burst release, minimal burst release, or no release) and implanted in 15.0 mm segmental defects in rabbit radii. The animals were euthanized at 12 weeks and the implants were analyzed by light microscopy, histological scoring analysis, and histomorphometric analysis. Samples from all classes displayed bone growth within the pores of the scaffold near the edges of the defect. In areas where bone was not observed, the pores were filled with mostly fibrous tissue and exhibited minimal inflammatory response for all classes. In contrast to other scaffold classes, scaffolds containing a total dose of 200 microg TP508 and exhibiting a large burst release profile showed statistically more bone formation guided along the surface of the scaffold, with these scaffolds averaging 80% of the defect length bridged with bone compared to 10% or less bridged for the other scaffold classes. These results demonstrate that the extent of in vivo bone formation in response to controlled release from PPF-composite scaffolds is determined by the release kinetics of the incorporated osteogenic peptide.
BMP gene delivery for alveolar bone engineering at dental implant defects.	A challenge in the tissue engineering of alveolar bone surrounding oral or dental implants is achieving the targeted and sustained delivery of growth-promoting molecules at the osteotomy site. Bone morphogenetic protein-7 (BMP-7) has demonstrated the ability to stimulate bone regeneration in multiple skeletal sites, including the craniofacial complex. This study evaluates in vivo gene delivery of BMP-7 for bone tissue engineering around titanium dental implants. The maxillary first molar teeth of 44 Sprague-Dawley rats were extracted and allowed to heal for a period of 1 month. Large osteotomy defects were created in the edentulous ridge areas followed by the placement of dental implant fixtures. Recombinant adenoviral vectors encoding either the BMP-7 or the luciferase gene were delivered to the osseous defects using a collagen matrix. The kinetics of the gene expression was measured using in vivo bioluminescence optical imaging, while bone regeneration was evaluated under light and scanning electron microscopy. The results revealed sustained, targeted transgene expression for up to 10 days at the osteotomy sites with nearly undetectable levels by 35 days. Treatment of dental implant fixtures with Ad/BMP-7 resulted in enhancement of alveolar bone defect fill, coronal new bone formation, and new bone-to-implant contact. In vivo gene therapy of BMP-7 offers potential for alveolar bone engineering applications.
Bulk and surface modifications of polylactide.	This article reviews various methods of modifying the bulk and surface properties of poly(lactic acid) (PLA) so that the polymer may be used as a drug carrier in a drug delivery system (DDS) and as a cell scaffold in tissue engineering. Copolymerization of lactide with other lactone-type monomers or monomers with functional groups such as malic acid, copolymerization of lactide with macromolecular monomer such as poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) or dextran, as well as blending polylactide and natural derivatives and other methods of bulk modification are discussed. Surface modifications of PLA-type copolymers, such as surface coating, chemical modification, and plasma treatment are described. Cell culture technology proves the efficiency of bulk and surface modification and the potential application of PLA in tissue engineering.
Relationship between physical, biochemical and biomechanical properties of tissue-engineered cartilage-carrier-constructs.	Three-dimensional cartilage-carrier-constructs were produced according to a standard protocol from chondrocytes of an adult mini-pig. Physical parameters (height and weight) correlated very well with total DNA content (r2 = 0.86, re. 0.94). The relation between DNA content and glycosaminoglycan content was less but still significant. No significant relationship was found between the elasticity module and the DNA content, even if the elasticity module increased slightly at higher DNA content. With respect to later implantation, selection of a construct for implantation based on the weight, which can be determined non-invasive and under sterile conditions, seems to be justifiable.
Tissue engineering of teeth using adult stem cells.	Tooth development, a process which occurs in the developing embryo, involves the reciprocal and sequential signalling between epithelial and mesenchymal tissue of the developing first branchial arch. The oral epithelium produces the first inductive signals for odontogenesis at around E10.0, which trigger off a cascade of events that result in the formation of a tooth. We have engineered a tooth in vitro by harnessing the basic principles of odontogenesis and the inductive capability of the oral epithelium of the developing embryo. We replaced the mesenchymal portion of the developing mandibular primordium with aggregates of stem cells from embryos as well as stem cells taken from adult mice. The cell aggregates were covered with embryonic epithelium from E10.0 mouse embryos to form recombinant explants. In vitro culture of these recombinant explants resulted in the induction of early tooth marker genes in the cell aggregates, indicating that the cells were able to respond to the odontogenic signals produced by the oral epithelium. In vivo culture of explants resulted in the induction of Dspp within the cell aggregates indicating that tooth tissue was present. Three recombinant explants, where the cell aggregates consisted of adult bone marrow cells, produced teeth. To determine whether the oral cavity would be able to sustain the growth of an implanted tooth germ, E14.5 molar rudiments were implanted into the diastema region of the maxilla of adult mice. The resulting teeth appeared to be normal in size and were connected to the underlying bone. These experiments are an indication that it is possible to induce odontogenesis and engineer a tooth using adult cells of non-dental origin. They also indicate that developing tooth germs could be successfully implanted into the gingiva of patients.
Developmental analysis and computer modelling of bioengineered teeth.	Here we present the developmental progression of bioengineered pig teeth from 1 to 25 weeks of development. We demonstrate that 2-25 week implants contained embryonic tooth bud- and cap-stage tooth structures consisting of dental epithelium expressing the sonic hedgehog gene and condensed dental mesenchyme. Implants harvested at 18-25 weeks also contained tooth bud-like structures, as well as mature tooth structures containing enamel, dentin and pulp tissues. Immunohistochemical analyses confirmed the expression of dentin- and enamel-specific proteins in differentiated bioengineered tooth tissues. Three-dimensional computer modelling further demonstrated a spatial organization of enamel, dentin and pulp tissues resembling that of natural teeth. We conclude that bioengineered teeth commonly exhibit morphological stages characteristic of naturally forming teeth. Furthermore, the presence of immature tooth buds at all times assayed and increased numbers of bioengineered tooth structures over time suggests that porcine dental progenitor cells maintain the ability to form teeth for at least 25 weeks.
Phenotypic analysis of bovine chondrocytes cultured in 3D collagen sponges: effect of serum substitutes.	Repair of damaged cartilage usually requires replacement tissue or substitute material. Tissue engineering is a promising means to produce replacement cartilage from autologous or allogeneic cell sources. Scaffolds provide a three-dimensional (3D) structure that is essential for chondrocyte function and synthesis of cartilage-specific matrix proteins (collagen type II, aggrecan) and sulfated proteoglycans. In this study, we assessed porous, 3D collagen sponges for in vitro engineering of cartilage in both standard and serum-free culture conditions. Bovine articular chondrocytes (bACs) cultured in 3D sponges accumulated and maintained cartilage matrix over 4 weeks, as assessed by quantitative measures of matrix content, synthesis, and gene expression. Chondrogenesis by bACs cultured with Nutridoma as a serum replacement was equivalent or better than control cultures in serum. In contrast, chondrogenesis in insulin-transferrin-selenium (ITS(+3)) serum replacement cultures was poor, apparently due to decreased cell survival. These data indicate that porous 3D collagen sponges maintain chondrocyte viability, shape, and synthetic activity by providing an environment favorable for high-density chondrogenesis. With quantitative assays for cartilage-specific gene expression and biochemical measures of chondrogenesis in these studies, we conclude that the collagen sponges have potential as a scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering.
Cyclic strain-mediated regulation of vascular endothelial cell migration and tube formation.	Hemodynamic forces exerted by blood flow (cyclic strain, shear stress) affect the initiation and progression of angiogenesis; however, the precise signaling mechanism(s) involved are unknown. In this study, we examine the role of cyclic strain in regulating bovine aortic endothelial cell (BAEC) migration and tube formation, indices of angiogenesis. Considering their well-documented mechanosensitivity, functional inter-dependence, and involvement in angiogenesis, we hypothesized roles for matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2/9), RGD-dependent integrins, and urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) in this process. BAECs were exposed to equibiaxial cyclic strain (5% strain, 1Hz for 24h) before their migration and tube formation was assessed by transwell migration and collagen gel tube formation assays, respectively. In response to strain, both migration and tube formation were increased by 1.83+/-0.1- and 1.84+/-0.1-fold, respectively. Pertussis toxin, a Gi-protein inhibitor, decreased strain-induced migration by 45.7+/-32% and tube formation by 69.8+/-13%, whilst protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibition with genistein had no effect. siRNA-directed attenuation of endothelial MMP-9 (but not MMP-2) expression/activity decreased strain-induced migration and tube formation by 98.6+/-41% and 40.7+/-31%, respectively. Finally, integrin blockade with cRGD peptide and siRNA-directed attenuation of uPA expression reduced strain-induced tube formation by 85.7+/-15% and 84.7+/-31%, respectively, whilst having no effect on migration.
Thermoresponsive terpolymeric films applicable for osteoblastic cell growth and noninvasive cell sheet harvesting.	A novel multifunctional linear block copolymer, poly(N-isopropylacrylamide-co-acrylic acid)-b-poly( L-lactic acid) (NAL), was synthesized to expand the concept of cell sheet engineering by using its thermoresponsive property and processibility. The chemical structure of synthesized NAL was confirmed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and its molar mass (103,500 g.mol(-1)) and molar mass distribution were determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectroscopy. NAL copolymer was fabricated into thin films by spin-casting. Spin-cast NAL films displayed thermoresponsive properties as demonstrated by surface wettability and topology changes from relatively more hydrophobic (contact angle of 56 degrees) and rougher at 37 degrees C to relatively more hydrophilic (contact angle of 40 degrees) and smoother at 22 degrees C, as assessed by contact angle measurement and atomic force microscopy, respectively. Murine osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells displayed comparable adhesion but slower proliferation on NAL films than on poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) films and tissue culture polystyrene (TCPS). Within 9 days of cell culture, the highest alkaline phosphatase activity of MC3T3-E1 cells occurred later (on day 9) on NAL films than on PLLA films and TCPS (on day 6). A well-established MC3T3-E1 cell sheet was successfully detached from NAL films, in the absence of enzymes, within about 5 min by simply lowering the temperature from 37 degrees C to room temperature. NAL copolymer has potential for use in the controlled release of therapeutic agents while simultaneously supporting cell growth. In addition, it may be applicable for noninvasive two- or three-dimensional cell sheet harvesting.
Modulation of proliferation and differentiation of human bone marrow stromal cells by fibroblast growth factor 2: potential implications for tissue engineering of tendons and ligaments.	Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) play a central role in the repair and regeneration of mesenchymal tissues. For tissue engineering of ligaments and tendons, both stimulation of cell proliferation and differentiation with increased expression of essential extracellular matrix proteins and cytoskeletal elements are desirable. This study analyzes the effect of low-dose (3 ng/mL) fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) and high-dose FGF-2 (30 ng/mL) on proliferation (bromodeoxyuridine content, spectrophotometry), differentiation (transcription of collagen I, collagen III, fibronectin, elastin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and vimentin, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and cell density and apoptosis (annexin V, fluorescence-activated cell sorting) of human BMSCs, and compares the results with those of a control group without FGF-2. Low-dose FGF-2 triggered a biphasic BMSC response: on day 7, cell proliferation reached its maximum and was significantly higher compared with the other groups. On days 14 or 28, collagen I, collagen III, fibronectin, and alpha- smooth muscle actin mRNA expression was significantly enhanced in the presence of low-dose FGF-2. In contrast, high-dose FGF-2 did not stimulate differentiation or proliferation. Vimentin mRNA was expressed only in cultures with low-dose and high-dose FGF-2 after 14 and 28 days. Cell density was significantly higher in cultures with low-dose FGF-2 compared with the group with high-dose FGF-2 on days 7, 14, and 28. The apoptosis rate remained stable, at a rather high level, in all groups. Microscopic investigation of the cell cultures with low-dose FGF-2 showed more homogeneous, dense, fibroblast-like, spindle-shaped cells with long cell processes compared with cultures with high-dose, or no FGF-2. Low-dose FGF-2 may be useful for tissue engineering of ligaments and tendons by increasing BMSC proliferation and stimulating mRNA expression of specific extracellular matrix proteins and cytoskeletal elements.
In vitro expansion of human nasoseptal chondrocytes reveals distinct expression profiles of G1 cell cycle inhibitors for replicative, quiescent, and senescent culture stages.	In vitro expansion of chondrocytes for tissue-engineering applications is limited by forms of growth arrest known as quiescence and replicative senescence. At the molecular level cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKIs) are involved in mediating growth arrest in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Using ribonuclease protection assays and immunocytochemical staining methods, we quantitatively analyzed expression profiles of G1 cell cycle inhibitors at the mRNA and protein levels. These inhibitors included the CDKIs of the CIP/KIP family (p21CIP1 p27KIP1, and p57KIP2) and the INK4 family (p15INK4b, p16INK4a, p18INK4c, and p19INK4d) as well as the retinoblastoma protein-family (pRb, p107, and p130) and the tumor suppressor p53. Analysis was carried out in proliferating, quiescent, and senescent states of primary cultures of adult human nasoseptal chondrocytes. The most pronounced effect (p < 0.0001) between cultures in proliferation and cultures in growth arrest was an increased expression of the CDKIs p57KIP2 and p15INK4b for quiescent growth arrest, and of p16INK4a, p15INK4b, and p57KIP2 for senescent growth arrest. Thus, these cell cycle inhibitors represent potential candidates for selective intervention to promote cellular multiplication of chondrocytes undergoing in vitro expansion for tissue-engineering applications. Possible methods of modulation include the targeted elimination of specifically identified cell cycle inhibitors by antisense technologies.
Tissue reorganization in response to mechanical load increases functionality.	In the rapidly growing field of tissue engineering, the functional properties of tissue substitutes are recognized as being of the utmost importance. The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of static mechanical forces on the functionality of the produced tissue constructs. Living tissue sheets reconstructed by the self-assembly approach from human cells, without the addition of synthetic material or extracellular matrix (ECM), were subjected to mechanical load to induce cell and ECM alignment. In addition, the effects of alignment on the function of substitutes reconstructed from these living tissue sheets were evaluated. Our results show that tissue constructs made from living tissue sheets, in which fibroblasts and ECM were aligned, presented higher mechanical resistance. This was assessed by the modulus of elasticity and ultimate strength as compared with tissue constructs in which components were randomly oriented. Moreover, tissue-engineered vascular media made from a prealigned living tissue sheet, produced with smooth muscle cells, possessed greater contractile capacity compared with those produced from living tissue sheets that were not prealigned. These results show that the mechanical force generated by cells during tissue organization is an asset for tissue component alignment. Therefore, this work demonstrates a means to improve the functionality (mechanical and vasocontractile properties) of tissues reconstructed by tissue engineering by taking advantage of the biomechanical forces generated by cells under static strain.
Potential of nanofiber matrix as tissue-engineering scaffolds.	Tissue-engineering scaffolds should be analogous to native extracellular matrix (ECM) in terms of both chemical composition and physical structure. Polymeric nanofiber matrix is similar, with its nanoscaled nonwoven fibrous ECM proteins, and thus is a candidate ECM-mimetic material. Techniques such as electrospinning to produce polymeric nanofibers have stimulated researchers to explore the application of nanofiber matrix as a tissue-engineering scaffold. This review covers the preparation and modification of polymeric nanofiber matrix in the development of future tissue-engineering scaffolds. Major emphasis is also given to the development and applications of aligned, core shell-structured, or surface-functionalized polymer nanofibers. The potential application of polymer nanofibers extends far beyond tissue engineering. Owing to their high surface area, functionalized polymer nanofibers will find broad applications as drug delivery carriers, biosensors, and molecular filtration membranes in future.
Biological evaluation of chitosan salts cross-linked to genipin as a cell scaffold for disk tissue engineering.	Degenerative disc disease has been implicated as a major component of spine pathology. However, although biological repair of the degenerate disk would be the ideal treatment, there is no universally accepted scaffold for tissue engineering of the intervertebral disk. To help remedy this, we investigated the gelation kinetics of various concentrations (2.5 to 10%) of two water-soluble chitosan chlorides (low molecular weight Protasan UP CL113 and high molecular weight Protasan UP CL213) and two chitosan glutamates (low molecular weight Protasan UP G113 and high molecular weight Protasan UP G213). Various concentrations (5 to 20%) of genipin, a naturally occurring cross-linking reagent used in herbal medicine and in the fabrication of food dyes, were used to prepare cross-linked chitosan hydrogels. The results show that 2.5% Protasan UP G213 cross-linked to 5% genipin was the best candidate. This formulation gelled fastest at 37 degrees C, and maintained 95% viability of encapsulated cultured disk cells. The gel did not produce an inflammatory reaction when injected subcutaneously into C57BL/6 mice and is therefore biocompatible. Most importantly, when injected into the degenerated nucleus pulposus of human cadaveric intervertebral disk, the gel flowed into the clefts without leakage. This study demonstrates that 2.5% Protasan UP G213 cross-linked to 5% genipin might be a promising scaffold for disk tissue engineering.
Primary culture of polarized human salivary epithelial cells for use in developing an artificial salivary gland.	Therapeutic irradiation for head and neck cancer, and the autoimmune disease Sjogren's syndrome, lead to loss of salivary parenchyma. They are the two main causes of irreversible salivary gland hypofunction. Such patients cannot produce adequate levels of saliva, leading to considerable morbidity. We are working to develop an artificial salivary gland for such patients. A major problem in this endeavor has been the difficulty in obtaining a suitable autologous cellular component. This article describes a method of culturing and expanding primary salivary cells obtained from human submandibular glands (huSMGs) that is serum free and yields cells that are epithelial in nature. These include morphological (light and transmission electron microscopy [TEM]), protein expression (immunologically positive for ZO-1, claudin-1, and E-cadherin), and functional evidence. Under confocal microscopy, huSMG cells show polarization and appropriately localize tight junction proteins. TEM micrographs show an absence of dense core granules, but confirm the presence of tight and intermediate junctions and desmosomes between the cells. Functional assays showed that huSMG cells have high transepithelial electrical resistance and low rates of paracellular fluid movement. Additionally, huSMG cells show a normal karyotype without any morphological or numerical abnormalities, and most closely resemble striated and excretory duct cells in appearance. We conclude that this culture method for obtaining autologous human salivary cells should be useful in developing an artificial salivary gland.
Role for interleukin 1alpha in the inhibition of chondrogenesis in autologous implants using polyglycolic acid-polylactic acid scaffolds.	Significant challenges remain in generating tissue-engineered cartilage in immunocompetent animals. Scaffold materials such as polyglycolic acid lead to significant inflammatory reactions, inhibiting homogeneous matrix synthesis. This study examined the generation of tissue-engineered cartilage, using a polyglycolic acid-polylactic acid copolymer (Ethisorb; Ethicon, Norderstedt, Germany) in an autologous immunocompetent pig model. The goals of this study were to determine the role of interleukin 1alpha (IL-1alpha) in this system and to assess the effect of serum treatment on tissue generation. Porcine auricular chondrocytes were seeded onto Ethisorb disks cultured for 1 week in medium supplemented with either fetal bovine serum or serum-free insulin-transferrin-selenium supplement. Specimens were implanted autogenously in pigs with unseeded scaffolds as controls. After 1, 4, or 8 weeks, six specimens from each group were explanted and analyzed histologically (hematoxylin and eosin, safranin O, trichrome, and Verhoeff's staining) and biochemically (glycosaminoglycan content). The presence and distribution of IL-1alpha were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Histology revealed acute inflammation surrounding degrading scaffold. Cartilage formation was observed as early as 1 week after implantation and continued to increase with time; however, homogeneous matrix synthesis was not present in any of the specimens. Strong IL-1alpha expression was detected in chondrocytes at the implant periphery and in cells in the vicinity of degrading polymer. Histologically there was no significant difference between the experimental groups with respect to the amount of matrix synthesis or inflammatory infiltration. The glycosaminoglycan content was significantly higher in the serum-free group. These results suggest that inflammatory reactions against scaffold materials and serum components lead to the production of cytokines such as IL-1alpha that may inhibit cartilage tissue formation in autologous transplant models.
Bioresponsive phosphoester hydrogels for bone tissue engineering.	Bioresponsive and intelligent biomaterials are a vehicle for manipulating cell function to promote tissue development and/or tissue engineering. A photopolymerized hydrogel based on a phosphoester- poly(ethylene glycol) polymer (PhosPEG) was synthesized for application to marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) encapsulation and tissue engineering of bone. The phosphor-containing hydrogels were hydrolytically degradable and the rate of degradation increased in the presence of a bone-derived enzyme, alkaline phosphatase. Gene expression and protein analysis of encapsulated MSCs demonstrated that PhosPEG-PEG cogels containing an intermediate concentration of phosphorus promoted the gene expression of bone-specific markers including type I collagen, alkaline phosphatase, and osteonectin, without the addition of growth factors or other biological agents, compared with pure poly(ethylene glycol)-based gels. Secretion of alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and osteonectin protein was also increased in the PhosPEG cogels. Mineralization of gels increased in the presence of phosphorus in both cellular and acellular constructs compared with PEG gels. In summary, phosphate-PEG-derived hydrogels increase gene expression of bone-specific markers, secretion of bone-related matrix, and mineralization and may have a potential impact on bone-engineering therapies.
Ovine model for engineering bone segments.	We propose a large animal model for bone tissue engineering that yields quantitative data and simulates clinical methods and tissue needs. Skeletally mature domestic sheep (n = 20) were each implanted with three rectangular (1 x 1 x 4 cm), hollow tissue-molding chambers that were empty (control) or filled with equal weights (6.71-6.78 g) of particulate autologous bone graft (MBG) or bone graft that was autoclaved to denature stored growth factors (DeMBG). MBG provided scaffold and bioactive factors, and DeMBG provided only scaffold. The chambers were enclosed on five sides and securely implanted so that the open face was apposed to the osteogenic (i.e., cambium) layer of the rib periosteum for 3, 6, 9, 12, or 24 weeks, after which the chambers were harvested and the contents analyzed. Each chamber contained osseous and fibrovascular tissue. MBG-containing chambers had the best maintenance of tissue volume compared with DeMBG-containing or empty chambers, but it still decreased steadily over time. Despite this, the MBG-containing chambers showed continuous active bone formation. There was increasing calcified tissue with penetration of osteogenesis up to a mean of 0.75 +/- 0.15 cm from the periosteum by 9 weeks, and the osteogenic area peaked at 0.59 +/- 0.13 cm2 by 12 weeks. Using quantitative measures that reflect clinical needs (i.e., tissue volume, shape, and quality), it was possible to distinguish differences in performance associated with manipulation of implanted scaffold and bioactive factors. This ovine model may serve as a useful tool to develop clinical osseous tissue-engineering strategies.
Diffusion limits of an in vitro thick prevascularized tissue.	Although tissue engineering promises to replace or restore lost function to nearly every tissue in the body, successful applications are currently limited to tissue less than 2 mm in thickness. in vivo capillary networks deliver oxygen and nutrients to thicker (> 2 mm) tissues, suggesting that introduction of a preformed in vitro vascular network may be a useful strategy for engineered tissues. This article describes a system for generating capillary-like networks within a thick fibrin matrix. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells, growing on the surface of microcarrier beads, were embedded in fibrin gels a known distance (Delta = 1.8-4.5 mm) from a monolayer of human dermal fibroblasts. The distance of the growth medium, which contained vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, from the beads, C, was varied from 2.7 to 7.2 mm. Capillaries with visible lumens sprouted in 2-3 days, reaching lengths that exceeded 500 microm within 6-8 days. On day 7, capillary network formation was largely independent of C; however, a strong inverse correlation with Delta was observed, with the maximum network formation at Delta = 1.8 mm. Surprisingly, the thickness of the gel was not a limiting factor for oxygen diffusion as these tissue constructs retained a relatively high oxygen tension of > 125 mmHg. We conclude that diffusion of oxygen in vitro is not limiting, allowing the development of tissue constructs on the order of centimeters in thickness. In addition, diffusion of fibroblast-derived soluble mediators is necessary for stable capillary formation, but is significantly impeded relative to that of nutrients present in the medium.
Matrix metalloproteinase 9 facilitates collagen remodeling and angiogenesis for vascular constructs.	Degradation of the extracellular matrix, facilitated by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), can lead to mechanical failure of vascular constructs, suggesting that MMP inhibition could improve survival of constructs. Therefore, we investigated the role of MMP-9 in collagen remodeling in vitro, focusing on the three major steps of production, degradation, and organization. Because an adequate blood supply is essential for survival of tissue-engineered constructs, we also evaluated the influence of MMP-9 deficiency on angiogenesis in vivo by implantation of thin biodegradable polymer scaffolds. Using aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) from wild-type and genetically deficient (9KO) mice, we examined the role of MMP-9 in collagen mRNA expression and protein accumulation, both with and without ascorbic acid treatment. We measured collagen assembly in a fibrillogenesis assay. We investigated in vivo angiogenesis and cell invasion, using fluorescence microangiography and histology. MMP-9 deficiency did not affect collagen mRNA production or polymer scaffold degradation, but collagen accumulation was greater in cultures of 9KO SMCs than in wild-type SMCs. Both MMP-9 deficiency and chemical inhibition impaired collagen degradation. Ascorbic acid treatment enhanced collagen production by 9KO SMCs compared with wild-type SMCs at 3 days, but by 7 days this effect was reversed. MMP-9 improved fibrillogenesis of collagen, significantly more on ascorbic acid treatment. MMP-9 deficiency dramatically decreased inflammatory cell invasion, but also capillary formation within biodegradable polymer scaffolds in vivo. Our data suggest that MMP inhibition, by impairing collagen organization and angiogenesis, might have detrimental effects on the survival of vascular constructs.
Comparison of three myofibroblast cell sources for the tissue engineering of cardiac valves.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the capacity of three clinically useful tissue sources: tricuspid valve leaflet (TVL), carotid artery (CA), and jugular vein (JV), to generate myofibroblasts for potential use in a tissue-engineered cardiac valve replacement. Tissue biopsies of clinically appropriate sizes obtained from juvenile sheep were used for this work. Cells obtained from all three tissue sources exhibited a myofibroblast phenotype in vitro, as demonstrated by their immunoreactivity with antibodies directed against vimentin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, fibronectin, and chondroitin sulfate. Protein synthesis characteristics were defined for the key extracellular matrix components: collagen, glycosaminoglycans, and elastin. Among the three sources, JV generated the highest numbers of cells, and JV cells produced the largest amount of collagen per cell. These data suggest that venous tissue, with its relative ease of accessibility, may generate myofibroblasts potentially useful for the interstitial cellular component of a tissue-engineered cardiac valve.
Endothelialized microvasculature based on a biodegradable elastomer.	Vital organs maintain dense microvasculature to sustain the proper function of their cells. For tissue- engineered organs to function properly, artificial capillary networks must be developed. We have microfabricated capillary networks with a biodegradable and biocompatible elastomer, poly(glycerol sebacate) (PGS). We etched capillary patterns onto silicon wafers by standard micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) techniques. The resultant silicon wafers served as micromolds for the devices. We bond the patterned PGS film with a flat film to create capillary networks that were perfused with a syringe pump at a physiological flow rate. The devices were endothelialized under flow conditions, and part of the lumens reached confluence within 14 days of culture. This approach may lead to tissue-engineered microvasculature that is critical in vital organs engineering.
Biomimetic three-dimensional cultures significantly increase hematopoietic differentiation efficacy of embryonic stem cells.	Stem cell-based tissue engineering is a promising technology in the effort to create functional tissues of choice. To establish an efficient approach for generating hematopoietic cell lineages directly from embryonic stem (ES) cells and to study the effects of three-dimensional (3D) biomaterials on ES cell differentiation, we cultured mouse ES cells on 3D, highly porous, biomimetic scaffolds. Cell differentiation was evaluated by microscopy and flow cytometry analysis with a variety of hematopoiesis- specific markers. Our data indicate that ES cells differentiated on porous 3D scaffold structures developed embryoid bodies (EBs) similar to those in traditional two-dimensional (2D) cultures; however, unlike 2D differentiation, these EBs integrated with the scaffold and appeared embedded in a network of extracellular matrix. Most significantly, the efficiency of hematopoietic precursor cell (HPC) generation on 3D, as indicated by the expression of various HPC-specific surface markers (CD34, Sca-1, Flk-1, and c-Kit) and colony-forming cell (CFC) assays, was reproducibly increased (about 2-fold) over their 2D counterparts. Comparison of static and dynamic 3D cultures demonstrated that spinner flask technology also contributed to the higher hematopoietic differentiation efficiency of ES cells seeded on scaffolds. Continued differentiation of 3D-derived HPCs into the myeloid lineage demonstrated increased efficiency (2-fold) of generating myeloid compared with differentiation from 2D-derived HPCs.
Enhancement of the adhesion of fibroblasts by peptide containing an Arg-Gly-Asp sequence with poly(ethylene glycol) into a thermo-reversible hydrogel as a synthetic extracellular matrix.	In an effort to regulate the behavior of mammalian cell entrapped in a gel, the gels were functionalized with the putative cell-binding (-Arg-Gly-Asp-) (RGD) domain. The adhesion molecules composed of Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser (GRGDS) peptides and the cell recognition ligands were inculcated into the thermo-reversible hydrogel composed of N-isopropylacrylamide, with a small amount of succinyl poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) acrylate (MW 2000) used as the biomimetic extracellular matrix (ECM). The GRGDS-containing p(NiPAAm-co-PEG) copolymer gel was examined in vitro for its ability to promote cell spreading and to increase the viability of the cells by introducing PEG spacers. ECM poorly adhered to hydrogel lacking adhesion molecules permitting only a 20% spread of the seeded cells after 10 days. When the PEG spacer arms, which were immobilized by a peptide linkage, had been integrated into the hydrogel, the conjugation of RGD improved cell spreading by 600% in a 10-day trial.
Tissue engineering scheming by artificial intelligence.	Tissue engineers are often confused when seeking the most effective, economical and secure scheme for tissue engineering. The aim of this study is to generate tissue engineering schemes with artificial intelligence instead of human intelligence. The experimental data of tissue engineered cartilage were integrated and standardized with a centralized database, and a scheme engine was developed using artificial intelligent methods (artificial neural networks and decision trees). The scheme engine was trained with existing cases in the database, and then was used to generate tissue engineering schemes for new experimental animals. Following the schemes generated by the artificial intelligent system, we cured 18 of the 20 experimental animals. In conclusion, artificial intelligence is a powerful method for decision making in the tissue engineering realm.
Tissue engineering for meniscus repair.	Meniscus injury is common in today's active society. Despite the frequent presentation of meniscus injury, the decision to repair or resect a torn meniscus is not always straightforward. Current repair techniques are effective in the peripheral vascularized meniscus, but their success is not dependable in the avascularized zone. Tissue engineering, a discipline that combines the technologies of cell culture and biodegradable scaffolds to deliver a cellular repair, may be one future answer to this problem. The concept of using cell-based repair for torn menisci could improve healing of lesions in the avascular zone and broadly expand the indication for repair rather than removal, obviating the need for meniscectomy. This article reviews current advances in the relatively new field of tissue engineering toward the development of a tissue-engineered meniscal repair technique.
Abdominal wall repair using a biodegradable scaffold seeded with cells.	The repair of large abdominal wall defects is still a challenge for pediatric surgeons. Synthetic materials, however, may lead to high complication rates. This study was aimed at applying tissue-engineering methods to abdominal wall repair.
A co-cultured skin model based on cell support membranes.	Tissue engineering of skin based on collagen:PCL biocomposites using a designed co-culture system is reported. The collagen:PCL biocomposites having collagen:PCL (w/w) ratios of 1:4, 1:8, and 1:20 have been proven to be biocompatible materials to support both adult normal human epidermal Keratinocyte (NHEK) and mouse 3T3 fibroblast growth in cell culture, respectively, by Dai, Coombes, et al. in 2004. Films of collagen:PCL biocomposites were prepared using non-crosslinking method by impregnation of lyophilized collagen mats with PCL/dichloromethane solutions followed by solvent evaporation. To mimic the dermal/epidermal structure of skin, the 1:20 collagen:PCL biocomposites were selected for a feasibility study of a designed co-culture technique that would subsequently be used for preparing fibroblast/biocomposite/keratinocyte skin models. A 55.3% increase in cell number was measured in the designed co-culture system when fibroblasts were seeded on both sides of a biocomposite film compared with cell culture on one surface of the biocomposite in the feasibility study. The co-culture of human keratinocytes and 3T3 fibroblasts on each side of the membrane was therefore studied using the same co-culture system by growing keratinocytes on the top surface of membrane for 3 days and 3T3 fibroblasts underneath the membrane for 6 days. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and immunohistochemistry assay revealed good cell attachment and proliferation of both human keratinocytes and 3T3 fibroblasts with these two types of cells isolated well on each side of the membrane. Using a modified co-culture technique, a co-cultured skin model presenting a confluent epidermal sheet on one side of the biocomposite film and fibroblasts populated on the other side of the film was developed successfully in co-culture system for 28 days under investigations by SEM and immunohistochemistry assay. Thus, the design of a co-culture system based on 1:20 (w/w) collagen:PCL biocomposite membranes for preparation of a bi-layered skin model with differentiated epidermal sheet was proven in principle. The approach to skin modeling reported here may find application in tissue engineering and screening of new pharmaceuticals.
Co-culture of human CD34+ cells with mesenchymal stem cells increases the survival of CD34+ cells against the 5-aza-deoxycytidine- or trichostatin A-induced cell death.	It has been suggested that epigenetic regulation plays an important role in maintaining the stemness and lineage differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), 5-aza-deoxycytidine (aza-D) and Trichostatin A (TSA) being candidate additives for HSC ex vivo expansion. Although they have potent activity to maintain the stemness, they can also cause serious cell death. This study examined the effects of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) on the maintenance of CD34+ cells driven by aza-D and TSA in culture with the combined cytokines of thrombopoietin, flt-3 ligand, stem cell factor, interleukin-3, and interleukin-6. In cultures without MSCs, although aza-D and TSA retained the CD34 frequency 4 to 8 times more than in the cytokines alone, a large portion of cells underwent apoptotic cell death. Consequently, CD34+ cell expansion could not be achieved in any condition without MSCs. In cultures with MSCs, the total cell number was higher in aza-D or TSA than in any conditions in the cultures without MSCs. The CD34 frequency was also similar to the level in the cultures in aza-D or TSA without the MSCs. These results suggest that a co-culture of CD34+ cells with the MSCs might not simply deliver the proliferation signals but also stemness and survival signals, and overlap the action of epigenetic regulators.
Mechanism(s) of increased vascular cell adhesion on nanostructured poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) films.	Studies have shown that poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) films with nanometer surface features promote vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cell adhesion. The objective of this in vitro research was to begin to understand the mechanisms behind this observed increase in vascular cell adhesion. Results provided evidence that nanostructured PLGA adsorbed significantly more vitronectin and fibronectin from serum compared to conventional (or those not possessing nanometer surface features) PLGA. When separately preadsorbing both vitronectin and fibronectin, increased vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cell density was observed on nanostructured (compared to conventional) PLGA. Additionally, blocking of cell-binding epitopes of fibronectin and vitronectin significantly decreased vascular cell adhesion on nanostructured (compared to conventional) PLGA. For this reason, results of the present in vitro study demonstrated that cell adhesive proteins adsorbed in different quantities and altered bioactivity on nanostructured compared to conventional PLGA topographies, which (at least in part) may account for the documented increased vascular cell adhesion on nanostructured PLGA. In this manner, this study continues to provide evidence for the promise of nanostructured PLGA in vascular tissue engineering applications.
Characterization of amphoteric multilayered thin films by means of zeta potential measurements.	Multilayer films of amphoteric methylated collagen were assembled on SOURCE 15S or SOURCE 15Q beads by sequential electrostatic deposition with negatively charged methylacrylic acid-hydroxyethyl methacrylate-methyl methacrylate (MAA-HEMA-MMA) terpolymer. Methylated collagen and terpolymer were deposited under conditions where they were oppositely charged to one another, thereby facilitating growth of the films through electrostatic interactions. Measurements revealed alternating positive and negative zeta-potential with the deposition of each methylated collagen and terpolymer layer, respectively. Assembly pH had a remarkable influence on zeta-potential of the assembled multilayers and the deposition of methylated collagen will be frustrated when the assembly pH is up to 9.0. In addition, ionic strength (NaCl concentration) showed an intricate effect on zeta-potential of the films of amphoteric methylated collagen.
Human adipose tissue-derived stem cells differentiate into endothelial cells in vitro and improve postnatal neovascularization in vivo.	In this study, we isolated CD31(-), CD34(-), CD106(-) (VCAM-1(-)), and fetal liver kinase(+) (Flk1(+)) cells from adipose tissue. These cells can be induced to differentiate into cells of osteogenic and adipogenic lineages in vitro and were termed adipose derived adult stem cells (ADAS cells). We also showed that they have characteristics of endothelial progenitor cells. In vitro, ADAS cells expressed endothelial markers when cultured with VEGF. In vivo, ADAS cells can differentiate in response to local cues into endothelial cells that contributed to neoangiogenesis in hindlimb ischemia models. PI3 kinase inhibitor LY294002 blocked the differentiation of ADAS cells into endothelial cells in vitro. Because ADAS cells can be expanded in culture without obvious senescence for more than 20 population doublings, they may be a potential source of endothelial cells for cellular pro-angiogenic therapies.
Cryopreservation and in vitro expansion of chondroprogenitor cells isolated from the superficial zone of articular cartilage.	Understanding the proliferation mechanisms of chondroprogenitor cells and their influence on cell differentiation is crucial in order to develop large-scale expansion processes for tissue engineering applications. Proliferation control mechanisms were mainly attributed to substrate limitation and cell-cell contact inhibition. The limiting substrates were found to be components of the FCS, with an optimal proliferation rate achieved in the presence of 40% FCS. In addition, the medium supply rate was found to be essential in reducing substrate limitation. In terms of FCS, 10 microL FCS cm(-2) h(-1) was the threshold feed rate required to prevent substrate limitation. Above this rate, maximum cell densities of 5.3 x 10(5) cells/cm2 were achieved, representing a 53-fold expansion. To reduce the need for high supply rates, the effect of specific growth factors was also investigated. Cell densities of 3.3 x 10(5) cells/cm2 were achieved in batch cultures using 40% FCS and 1 ng/mL TGF-beta1. Chondroprogenitor cells were expanded in this medium up to three passages without compromising their ability to differentiate and produce cartilage-like matrix in pellet cultures. In addition to substrate limitation, cell-cell contact, even at very sparse subconfluent densities, appeared capable of exerting some degree of growth inhibition. The cells exhibited deceleratory growth kinetics, characterized by a decrease of specific growth rates over time.
Ex vivo adipose tissue engineering by human marrow stromal cell seeded gelatin sponge.	The limitation of current clinical treatment for restoration extended defects of soft tissue associated with trauma, tumor resections, and congenital deformities are well known. This study demonstrates that human bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) can be utilized to tissue engineer adipose tissue for therapeutic purposes. Adipogenic potentials of monolayer-cultured human MSCs were evaluated by biochemical measurement of an adipogenic differentiation marker (glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, G-3-PDH) and cellular morphology. After preparation by seeding human MSCs on a 3-dimensional gelatin sponge and exposure to adipogenic differentiation medium, the ex vivo tissue-engineered adipose constructs were assessed histomorphologically and biochemically. Lipid droplets accumulated and expanded within the constructs accompanied by a significant increase of G-3-PDH activity. The present study indicates that bone MSCs could be a cell resource in tissue engineering adipose tissue, while gelatin sponge could be a good scaffold in this approach to improve the outcome of clinical treatment.
Induction and detection of human mesenchymal stem cell migration in the 48-well reusable transwell assay.	The induction and detection of chemotactic migration in mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are complicated by their adherent nature. We describe here the experimental details for inducing the transmigration of MSC seeded in microchemotaxis chambers and reliably identifying the translocated cells. A combination of 8-microm pore-sized membranes and a two-step staining procedure resulted in the detection of MSC migration against a gradient of human plasma which plateaued after 4 h. Microscopic enumeration of the transmigrated cells clearly distinguished contaminating nonmigrated cells from transmigrated cells. Chemokinetic and chemotactic effects could be separated and were influenced by precoated fibronectin or vitronectin. Thus, the technique described allows rapid and reliable induction and determination of migration in adherent MSC.
Tissue engineering of heart valves: decellularized porcine and human valve scaffolds differ importantly in residual potential to attract monocytic cells.	Tissue-engineered or decellularized heart valves have already been implanted in humans or are currently approaching the clinical setting. The aim of this study was to examine the migratory response of human monocytic cells toward decellularized porcine and human heart valves, a pivotal step in the early immunologic reaction.
Recent advances and current developments in tissue scaffolding.	A bio-scaffold can be broadly termed as a structure used to substitute an organ either permanently or temporarily to restore functionality. The material that can be used varies with the application intended. Tissue engineering is one such application demanding certain requirements to be met before it is applied. One of the applications in tissue engineering is the tissue scaffold, which provides either a permanent or temporary support to the damaged tissues/organ until the functionalities are restored. A biomaterial can exhibit specific interactions with cells that will lead to stereotyped responses. The use of a particular material and morphology depends on various factors such as osteoinduction, osteoconduction, angiogenesis, growth rates of cells and degradation rate of the material in case of temporary scaffolds, etc. The current work reviews the state of art in tissue scaffolds and focuses on permanent scaffold materials and applications with a brief overview of temporary scaffold materials and their disadvantages.
Tissue engineering strategies for bone regeneration.	Bone loss due to trauma or disease is an increasingly serious health problem. Current clinical treatments for critical-sized defects are problematic and often yield poor healing due to the complicated anatomy and physiology of bone tissue, as well as the limitations of medical technology. Bone tissue engineering offers a promising alternative strategy of healing severe bone injuries by utilizing the body's natural biological response to tissue damage in conjunction with engineering principles. Osteogenic cells, growth factors, and biomaterial scaffolds form the foundation of the many bone tissue engineering strategies employed to achieve repair and restoration of damaged tissue. An ideal biomaterial scaffold will provide mechanical support to an injured site and also deliver growth factors and cells into a defect to encourage tissue growth. Additionally, this biomaterial should degrade in a controlled manner without causing a significant inflammatory response. The following chapter highlights multiple strategies and the most recent advances in various areas of research for bone tissue regeneration.
Applications of polymer nanofibers in biomedicine and biotechnology.	Recent advancements in the electrospinning method enable the production of ultrafine solid and continuous fibers with diameters ranging from a few nanometers to a few hundred nanometers with controlled surface and internal molecular structures. A wide range of biodegradable biopolymers can be electrospun into mats with specific fiber arrangement and structural integrity. Through secondary processing, the nanofiber surface can be functionalized to display specific biochemical characteristics. It is hypothesized that the large surface area of nanofibers with specific surface chemistry facilitates attachment of cells and control of their cellular functions. These features of nanofiber mats are morphologically and chemically similar to the extracellular matrix of natural tissue, which is characterized by a wide range of pore diameter distribution, high porosity, effective mechanical properties, and specific biochemical properties. The current emphasis of research is on exploiting such properties and focusing on determining appropriate conditions for electrospinning various polymers and biopolymers for eventual applications including multifunctional membranes, biomedical structural elements (scaffolds used in tissue engineering, wound dressing, drug delivery, artificial organs, vascular grafts), protective shields in specialty fabrics, and filter media for submicron particles in the separation industry. This has resulted in the recent applications for polymer nanofibers in the field of biomedicine and biotechnology.
Periodontics--tissue engineering and the future.	Periodontics has a long history of utilizing advances in science to expand and improve periodontal therapies. Recently the American Academy of Periodontology published the findings of the Contemporary Science Workshop, which conducted state-of-the-art evidence-based reviews of current and emerging areas in periodontics. The findings of this workshop provide the basis for an evidence-based approach to periodontal therapy. While the workshop evaluated all areas of periodontics, it is in the area of tissue engineering that the most exciting advances are becoming a reality.
Tissue engineering for periodontal regeneration.	As a result of periodontal regeneration research, a series of clinical techniques have emerged that permit tissue engineering to be performed for more efficient regeneration and repair of periodontal defects and improved implant site development. Historically, periodontal regeneration research has focused on a quest for "magic filler" material. This search has led to the development of techniques utilizing autologous bone and bone marrow, allografts, xenografts, and various man-made bone substitutes. Though these techniques have had limited success, the desire for a more effective regenerative approach has resulted in the development of tissue engineering techniques. Tissue engineering is a relatively new field of reconstructive biology which utilizes mechanical, cellular, or biologic mediators to facilitate reconstruction/regeneration of a particular tissue. In periodontology, the concept of tissue engineering had its beginnings with guided tissue regeneration, a mechanical approach utilizing nonresorbable membranes to obtain regeneration in defects. In dental implantology, guided bone regeneration membranes +/- mechanical support are used for bone augmentation of proposed implant placement sites. With the availability of partially purified protein mixture from developing teeth and growth factors from recombinant technology, a new era of tissue engineering whereby biologic mediators can be used for periodontal regeneration. The advantage of recombinant growth factors is this tissue engineering device is consistent in its regenerative capacity, and variations in regenerative response are due to individual healing response and/or poor surgical techniques. In this article, the authors review how tissue engineering has advanced and discuss its impact on the clinical management of both periodontal and osseous defects in preparation for implant placement. An understanding of these new tissue engineering techniques is essential for comprehending today's ever-expanding oral plastic surgery procedures.
Fabrication and properties of a composite chitosan/type II collagen scaffold for tissue engineering cartilage]	To develop a novel porous three-dimensional scaffold and to investigate its physico-chemical properties for tissue engineering cartilage.
Fabrication of decellularized scaffold of homograft bioprosthetic tube valved with two kinds of cell detergents]	To compare the effect of fabricating decellularized scaffold of homograft bioprosthetic tube valved (HBTV) with two kinds of cell detergents and to provide a homograft bioprosthetic scaffold for fabrication of tissue-engineering heart valve (TEHV).
Experimental study on biomechanics characteristics of combined collagen tissue engineering tendon]	To investigate the influence of collagen on the biomechanics strength of tissue engineering tendon.
Growth characterization of neo porcine cartilage pellets and their use in an interactive culture model.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the growth characteristics of freshly isolated porcine chondrocytes in high-density pellet cultures and to preliminary investigate their use in an interactive in vitro model with synovial fibroblast cell lines to study rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Lentiviral-mediated transfer of CNTF to schwann cells within reconstructed peripheral nerve grafts enhances adult retinal ganglion cell survival and axonal regeneration.	We recently described a method for reconstituting peripheral nerve (PN) sheaths using adult Schwann cells (SCs). Reconstructed PN tissue grafted onto the cut optic nerve supports the regeneration of injured adult rat retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. To determine whether genetic manipulation of such grafts can further enhance regeneration, adult SCs were transduced with lentiviral vectors encoding either ciliary neurotrophic factor (LV-CNTF) or green fluorescent protein (LV-GFP). SCs expressed transgenes for at least 4 weeks after transplantation. There were high levels of CNTF mRNA and CNTF protein in PN grafts containing LV-CNTF-transduced SCs. Mean RGC survival was significantly increased with these grafts (11,863/retina) compared with LV-GFP controls (7064/retina). LV-CNTF-transduced SCs enhanced axonal regeneration to an even greater extent (3097 vs 393 RGCs/retina in LV-GFP controls). Many regenerated axons were myelinated. The use of genetically modified, reconstituted PN grafts to bridge tissue defects may provide new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of both CNS and PNS injuries.
Efficient gene transfer to human epidermal keratinocytes on fibronectin: in vitro evidence for transduction of epidermal stem cells.	The epidermis is an attractive target for gene therapy because it is easily accessible and has great potential as an ectopic site for protein delivery in vivo. Genetically modified keratinocytes can be expanded in culture and used to generate three-dimensional skin equivalents, which can deliver therapeutic proteins either locally or systemically for the treatment of wounds or systemic diseases. Here we present an optimum protocol that yields consistently high retroviral gene transfer on a substrate of recombinant fibronectin (rFN). Gene transfer on rFN depends strongly on virus concentration and the density of target cells. Interestingly, the kinetics of gene transfer varies depending upon the origin--mouse or human--of virus-producer cells. Most notably, long-term growth and clonogenic assays show that transduction on rFN promotes gene transfer to epidermal stem cells and prevents loss of clonogenic potential due to exposure of cells to retroviral supernatant. In contrast, the traditional protocol transduces mostly differentiated keratinocytes. We also show that skin equivalents prepared from genetically modified keratinocytes display high levels of transgene expression, mainly in the suprabasal layers. Our results are important for cutaneous gene therapy and for biological studies that require efficient and permanent genetic modification.
The use of human serum in supporting the in vitro and in vivo proliferation of human conjunctival epithelial cells.	To evaluate the use of human serum (HS) in supporting the in vitro and in vivo proliferation of human conjunctival epithelial cells, and compare it with fetal bovine serum (FBS) and bovine pituitary extract (BPE).
Encapsulating live cells with water-soluble chitosan in physiological conditions.	A new class of microcapsules was prepared under physiological conditions by polyelectrolyte complexation between two oppositely-charged, water-soluble polymers. The microcapsules consisted of an inner core of half N-acetylated chitosan and an outer shell of methacrylic acid (MAA) (20.4%)-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA) (27.4%)-methyl methacrylate (MMA) (52.2%) (MAA-HEMA-MMA) terpolymer. Both 400 and 150 kDa half N-acetylated chitosans maintained good water solubility and supplied enough protonated amino groups to coacervate with terpolymer at pH 7.0-7.4, in contrast to other chitosan-based microcapsules which must be prepared at pH <6.5. The viscosity of half N-acetylated chitosan solutions between 80 and 3000 cPas allowed the formation of microcapsules with spherical shape. Molar mass, pH and concentration of half N-acetylated chitosan, and reaction time, influenced the morphology, thickness and porosity of the microcapsules. Microcapsules formed with high concentration of half N-acetylated chitosan exhibited improved mechanical stability, whereas microcapsules formed with low concentration of half N-acetylated chitosan exhibited good permeability. This 3D microenvironment has been configured to cultivate sensitive anchorage-dependent cells such as hepatocytes to maintain high level of functions.
Microwave irradiated collagen tubes as a better matrix for peripheral nerve regeneration.	Collagen is one of the best materials used for nerve guide preparation due to its biocompatibility and desirable tensile strength. In this work, we have compared regeneration and functional reinnervation after sciatic nerve resection with bioresorbable crosslinked collagen guides in 10 mm gap. The crosslinking was carried out either with glutaraldehyde (GTA) or microwave irradiation (MWI). The multilayered collagen membrane used for nerve guides are prepared by lamellar evaporation technique. Functional evaluations of the regenerated nerves were performed by measuring the sciatic functional index (SFI), nerve conduction velocity (NCV), and electromyography (EMG). Transmission electron microscopic studies showed growth of axonal cable with fewer myelinated axons, Schwann cells and more unmyelinated axons present in the case of group treated with uncrosslinked collagen tubes after 1 month of implantation. However, we have observed more myelinated axons in the case of autograft, GTA, and MWI crosslinked collagen tube implants across the gap of 1 cm after the same period of implantation. Smaller myelinated fiber diameter was observed in the case of GTA crosslinked collagen tube group when compared with the autograft and MWI collagen tube groups. There were more myelinated axons during the 3rd and 6th months postoperatively using these conduits as substantiated by light microscopic studies of the regenerated nerve. The conduction velocity and recovery index improved significantly after 5 months reaching the normal values in the autograft and MWI crosslinked collagen groups compared to GTA and uncrosslinked collagen tubes.
From stem cells to viable autologous semilunar heart valve.	An estimated 275,000 patients undergo heart valve replacement each year. However, existing solutions for valve replacement are complicated by the morbidity associated with lifelong anticoagulation of mechanical valves and the limited durability of bioprostheses. Recent advances in tissue engineering and our understanding of stem cell biology may provide a lifelong solution to these problems.
Towards a medically approved technology for alginate-based microcapsules allowing long-term immunoisolated transplantation.	The concept of encapsulated-cell therapy is very appealing, but in practice a great deal of technology and know-how is needed for the production of long-term functional transplants. Alginate is one of the most promising biomaterials for immunoisolation of allogeneic and xenogeneic cells and tissues (such as Langerhans islets). Although great advances in alginate-based cell encapsulation have been reported, several improvements need to be made before routine clinical applications can be considered. Among these is the production of purified alginates with consistently high transplantation-grade quality. This depends to a great extent on the purity of the input algal source as well as on the development of alginate extraction and purification processes that can be validated. A key engineering challenge in designing immunoisolating alginate-based microcapsules is that of maintaining unimpeded exchange of nutrients, oxygen and therapeutic factors (released by the encapsulated cells), while simultaneously avoiding swelling and subsequent rupture of the microcapsules. This requires the development of efficient, validated and well-documented technology for cross-linking alginates with divalent cations. Clinical applications also require validated technology for long-term cryopreservation of encapsulated cells to maintaining a product inventory in order to meet end-user demands. As shown here these demands could be met by the development of novel, validated technologies for production of transplantation-grade alginate and microcapsule engineering and storage. The advances in alginate-based therapy are demonstrated by transplantation of encapsulated rat and human islet grafts that functioned properly for about 1 year in diabetic mice.
Review: peripheral nerve regeneration using non-tubular alginate gel crosslinked with covalent bonds.	We have developed a nerve regeneration material consisting of alginate gel crosslinked with covalent bonds. in the first part of this study, we attempted to analyze nerve regeneration through alginate gel in the early stages within 2 weeks. in the second part, we tried to regenerate cat peripheral nerve by using alginate tubular or non-tubular nerve regeneration devices, and compared their efficacies. Four days after surgery, regenerating axons grew without Schwann cell investment through the partially degraded alginate gel, being in direct contact with the alginate without a basal lamina covering. One to 2 weeks after surgery, regenerating axons were surrounded by common Schwann cells, forming small bundles, with some axons at the periphery being partly in direct contact with alginate. At the distal stump, numerous Schwann cells had migrated into the alginate 8-14 days after surgery. Remarkable restorations of the 50-mm gap in cat sciatic nerve were obtained after a long term by using tubular or non-tubular nerve regeneration material consisting mainly of alginate gel. However, there was no significant difference between both groups at electrophysiological and morphological evaluation. Although, nowadays, nerve regeneration materials being marketed mostly have a tubular structure, our results suggest that the tubular structure is not indispensable for peripheral nerve regeneration.
Influence of alginate on type II collagen fibrillogenesis.	Collagen II is the majority of extracellular matrix components in articular cartilage, which with the major functions of preventing expansion of the tissue and distributing the load of body weight. To obtain man-made ECM, the reconstitution of collagen could be conducted in the presence of negatively charged polysaccharide, such as alginate. Alginate is an anionic polysaccharide capable of eversible gelated in calcium ion solution to prepare different shapes of biomaterials. Its well-known biocompatibility makes it an ideal material in biomedical applications. Thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of alginate on the fibrillogenesis of type II collagen. The preliminary results revealed that inclusion of alginate into soluble type II collagen solution could inhibit the development of turbidity of collagen solution, and the apparent rate constants in lag and growth phases decreased during collagen formation period, both rate constants decreased to about one-third of the original constants, respectively. From TEM observations, the collagen fibrils were significantly thicker in 0.05% and 0.1% alginate as compared with pure collagen solution. Furthermore, the D-periods of collagen fibers kept unchanged significantly under all reconstituted conditions, which meant the packing of collagen monomer was probably not affected by adding these amounts of alginate.
Morphology and metabolism of Ba-alginate encapsulated hepatocytes with galactosylated poly(allyl amine) and poly(vinyl alcohol) as extracellular matrices.	Lactobionic acid, bearing a beta -galactose group, was coupled with poly(allyl amine) to provide synthetic extracellular matrices together with poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA). The hepatocytes were encapsulated in Ba-alginate capsules with galactosylated poly(allyl amine) (GA) and PVA as extracellular matrices. From microscopic observation, it was revealed that the microcapsule prepared has a highly porous structure with interconnected pores and pore sizes ranging between 50-150 nm on both the surface and the cross-section. It was found, from the permeability experiment of microcapsules using FITC-dextrans with different molecular weights, that the capsule has a molecular weight cut off (MWCO) of 120 kDa, showing the potential that it can function as an immunoprotecting wall. The hepatocytes, cultured with GA and PVA in the core of the microcapsule, rapidly aggregated within a day, thus resulting in good metabolic functions such as albumin synthesis and ammonia removal.
The effect of alginate, hyaluronate and hyaluronate derivatives biomaterials on synthesis of non-articular chondrocyte extracellular matrix.	Cartilage engineering consists of re-constructing functional cartilage by seeding chondrocytes in suitable biomaterials in vitro. The characteristics of neocartilage differ upon the type of biomaterial chosen. This study aims at determining the appropriate scaffold material for articular cartilage reconstruction using non articular chondrocytes harvested from rat sternum. For this purpose, the use of polysaccharide hydrogels such as alginate (AA) and hyaluronic acid (HA) was investigated. Several ratios of AA/HA were used as well as three derivatives obtained by chemical modification of HA (HA-C18, HA-C12(2.3), HA-C12(2.5)-TEG0.5). Sternal chondrocytes were successfully cultured in 3D alginate and alginate/HA scaffolds. HA retention in alginate beads was found to be higher in beads seeded with cells than in beads without cells. HA-C18 improved HA retention in beads but inhibited the chondrocyte synthesis process. Cell proliferation and metabolism were enhanced in all biomaterials when beads were mechanically agitated. Preliminary results have shown that the chondrocyte neo-synthesised matrix had acquired articular characteristics after 21 days culture.
A new process for cell microencapsulation and other biomaterial applications: Thermal gelation and chemical cross-linking in "tandem".	The very rapid gelation of a cell- or biomolecule-containing solution is at the basis of most processes employed in microencapsulation. Adequately quick ('instantaneous') gelation kinetics are provided by a number of phenomena based on physical association. On the other hand, physical gels are inherently reversible structures, which can be solubilized or disrupted in response to often poorly controllable phenomena in the environment of application, such as dilution, changes in temperature, ion strength and composition, pH, or other physical or chemical parameters. Chemically cross-linked hydrogels would have therefore significant advantages in terms of stability and end-properties; however, the time required for chemical reactions to produce a chemically cross-linked material is in a more general case hardly compatible with microencapsulation processes. In a recent study of our laboratory we have proposed a new approach for providing both quick gelation kinetics and good stability, by simply combining the rapid kinetics of a physical hardening phenomenon with a slower chemical curing; the former process is thus responsible of the morphogenesis of the material, while the latter develops its end-properties.
Fibrillar collagen assembled in the presence of glycosaminoglycans to constitute bioartificial stem cell niches in vitro.	Fibrillar collagen was reconstituted from mixtures of monomeric tropocollagen and heparin or hyaluronic acid, respectively. Turbidity measurements were utilized to follow the fibrillar assembly and demonstrated the influence of the concentration of the glycosaminoglycan on the maximum optical densities. Thin film coatings of maleic anhydride copolymers were utilized for the covalent immobilization of the fibrillar assemblies to solid supports. Quantification of surface-bound collagen was accomplished by ellipsometry and HPLC-based amino acid analysis indicating that less collagen was immobilized in the presence of the glycosaminoglycans. SEM and AFM revealed various sizes and shapes of the immobilized fibrillar assemblies if collagen fibrils were prepared in the presence of heparin or hyaluronic acid. Human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) were cultivated on the surface-bound collagen fibrils and the migration of adherent cells was studied by time-lapse microscopy. Migration rates on fibrillar structures were significantly lower then on tropocollagen indicating a more intimate contact of HSCs to the fibrillar substrates.
Alginate and chitosan polyion complex hybrid fibers for scaffolds in ligament and tendon tissue engineering.	Selecting the material for a scaffold is critically important for the success of tissue engineering. To simplify complicated biosynthetic matrices and achieve a novel class of potential materials, a model of polyion complex fibers was prepared from alginate and chitosan. In the current in vitro study, we thought that alginate-based chitosan hybrid biomaterials could provide excellent supports for fibroblast adhesion. In the current study, alginate polymer fiber (alginate group) and alginate-based chitosan hybrid polymer fibers (alginate with 0.05% chitosan, alginate-chitosan 0.05% group; alginate with 0.1% chitosan, alginate-chitosan 0.1% group) were originally prepared. We investigated the adhesion behavior of rabbit tendon fibroblast onto alginate polymer fibers versus the adhesion of the fibroblast onto alginate-based chitosan hybrid polymer fibers. Furthermore, mechanical properties and synthesis of the extracellular matrix were investigated. Mechanically, the novel fiber has considerable tensile strength of more than 200 MPa. We demonstrated that the alginate-based chitosan hybrid polymer fibers showed much improved adhesion capacity with fibroblast compared with alginate polymer fiber. Additionally, morphologic studies revealed the dense fiber of the type I collagen produced by the fibroblast in the hybrid polymer fibers. We concluded that an alginate-based chitosan hybrid polymer fiber has considerable potential as a desirable biomaterial scaffold for tendon and ligament tissue engineering.
Healing of a critical-sized defect in the rat femur with use of a vascularized periosteal flap, a biodegradable matrix, and bone morphogenetic protein.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the osseous healing of a critical-sized femoral defect in a rat model with use of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rhBMP-2), a matrix fabricated of D,D-L,L-polylactic and hyaluronan acid (OPLA-HY), and a vascularized periosteal flap.
Articular cartilage engineering with Hyalograft C: 3-year clinical results.	The use of tissue engineering for cartilage repair has emerged as a potential therapeutic option and has led to the development of Hyalograft C, a tissue-engineered graft composed of autologous chondrocytes grown on a scaffold entirely made of HYAFF 11, an esterified derivative of hyaluronic acid. Here we present the results of an ongoing multicenter clinical study conducted with the primary objective to investigate the subjective symptomatic, functional and health-related quality of life outcomes of patients treated with Hyalograft C. Clinical results on the cohort of 141 patients with followup assessments ranging from 2 to 5 years (average followup time: 38 months), are reported. At followup 91.5% of patients improved according to the International Knee Documentation Committee subjective evaluation; 76% and 88% of patients had no pain and mobility problems respectively assessed by the EuroQol-EQ5D measure. Furthermore, 95.7% of the patients had their treated knee normal or nearly normal as assessed by the surgeon; cartilage repair was graded arthroscopically as normal or nearly normal in 96.4% of the scored knees; the majority of the second-look biopsies of the grafted site histologically were assessed as hyaline-like. Importantly, a very limited complication rate was recorded in this study. The positive clinical results obtained indicate that Hyalograft C is a safe and effective therapeutic option for the treatment of articular cartilage lesions.
Fabrication and characterization of three-dimensional poly(ether- ether- ketone)/-hydroxyapatite biocomposite scaffolds using laser sintering.	The ability to have precise control over porosity, scaffold shape, and internal pore architecture is critical in tissue engineering. For anchorage-dependent cells, the presence of three-dimensional scaffolds with interconnected pore networks is crucial to aid in the proliferation and reorganization of cells. This research explored the potential of rapid prototyping techniques such as selective laser sintering to fabricate solvent-free porous composite polymeric scaffolds comprising of different blends of poly(ether-ether-ketone) (PEEK) and hydroxyapatite (HA). The architecture of the scaffolds was created with a scaffold library of cellular units and a corresponding algorithm to generate the structure. Test specimens were produced and characterized by varying the weight percentage, starting with 10 wt% HA to 40 wt% HA, of physically mixed PEEK-HA powder blends. Characterization analyses including porosity, microstructure, composition of the scaffolds, bioactivity, and in vitro cell viability of the scaffolds were conducted. The results obtained showed a promising approach in fabricating scaffolds which can produce controlled microarchitecture and higher consistency.
Fibronectin immobilization using water-soluble carbodiimide on poly-L-lactic acid for enhancing initial fibroblast attachment.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the influence of fibronectin immobilization on poly-L-lactic acid (PLA) films on the initial attachment of human gingival fibroblasts. Carboxylic acid groups are chemically introduced on the PLA films' surface by surface hydrolysis with 0.5 M NaOH. The contact angle of PLA surface with respect to double-distilled water decreases significantly after NaOH hydrolysis. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) also reveals significantly higher intensities of C(C=O)/C(C-O) after NaOH hydrolysis. Fibronectin is immobilized onto the hydrolyzed PLA surface through a condensation reaction between the carboxylic acid groups on the hydrolyzed PLA surface and the amino groups of fibronectin using water-soluble carbodiimide. XPS analysis shows that the fibronectin-immobilized PLA surface is enriched with nitrogen atoms. The immobilization of fibronectin significantly enhances the number of initially attached human gingival fibroblasts on the PLA surface. No obvious differences in morphology are noted between fibroblasts cultured on native PLA and on fibronectin-immobilized PLA. Fibronectin can be immobilized onto the PLA surface after NaOH hydrolysis and this is effective in enhancing the initial attachment of human gingival fibroblasts.
Manufacture of a cell-free amnion matrix scaffold that supports amnion cell outgrowth in vitro.	We manufactured a cell-free extracellular matrix scaffolds in order to obtain a support material for amnion cell outgrowth, eventually being used for repair of prematurely ruptured fetal membrane. Human preterm or term amnion tissue was separated into its collagenous extracellular matrix and cell components. The acellular scaffold was explored for its capacity to support regrowth of isolated human amnion epithelial or mesenchymal cells in vitro. The outgrowth of amnion cells on and in the scaffold was investigated by scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and confocal laser scanning microscopy. Cell-free amnion matrix scaffolds demonstrated a porous collagen fiber network similar as in native amnion. Inoculation of acellular amnion scaffolds with human amnion cells revealed that its property to support amnion cell outgrowth was retained. Amnion epithelial and mesenchymal cells were found to grow into dense layers on the surface of the scaffold within 3-4 days and 7-8 days, respectively, and to some extent, invaded the scaffold during the culture period. Manufactured acellular amnion matrix retains structural and functional properties required for cell outgrowth in vitro. It may become useful to repair prematurely ruptured fetal membranes.
Modeling cell and matrix anisotropy in fibroblast populated collagen vessels.	Microstructurally based models for bio-artificial tissues are needed to predict in vivo mechanical behavior and to validate assumptions for models of biologic tissues. We develop a microstructural model, based on on Zahalak et al. (2000) [Biophys 79(5):2369-2381], to describe matrix and tissue anisotropy observed in recent biaxial tests of fibroblast populated collagen vessels (FPCVs) with different cell orientations (Wagenseil et al. in Ann Biomed Eng 32(5):720-731 2004). The model includes pseudo-elastic cell behavior and pseudo-elastic, non-linear matrix behavior with recruitment of initially buckled collagen fibers. We obtained estimates of collagen matrix parameters from measurements of FPCVs treated with 2x 10(-6) M Cytochalasin D and used these estimates to determine cell parameters in FPCVs activated with 5% fetal calf serum. The estimated stiffness of individual fibroblasts was 41-1,165 kPa. Parameter estimates for both cell and matrix were influenced by the non-linearity of the biaxial test data, making it difficult to obtain unique parameter values for some experiments. Additional microstructural measurements of the collagen matrix may help to more precisely determine the relative contributions of cells and matrix.
Novel porous hydroxyapatite prepared by combining H2O2 foaming with PU sponge and modified with PLGA and bioactive glass.	Porous hydroxyapatite (HA) scaffolds have been intensively studied and developed for bone tissue engineering, but their mechanical properties remain to be improved. The aim of this study is to prepare HA-based composite scaffolds that have a unique macroporous structure and special struts of a polymer/ceramic interpenetrating composite and a bioactive coating. A novel combination of a polyurethane (PU) foam method and a hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O( 2)) foaming method is used to fabricate the macroporous HA scaffolds. Micropores are present in the resulting porous HA ceramics after the unusual sintering of a common calcium phosphate cement and are infiltrated with the poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) polymer. The internal surfaces of the macropores are further coated with a PLGA-bioactive glass composite coating. The porous composite scaffolds are characterized in terms of microstructure, mechanical properties, and bioactivity. It is found that the HA scaffolds fabricated by the combined method show high porosities of 61-65% and proper macropore sizes of 200-600 microm. The PLGA infiltration improved the compressive strengths of the scaffolds from 1.5-1.8 to 4.0-5.8 MPa. Furthermore, the bioactive glass-PLGA coating rendered a good bioactivity to the composites, evidenced by the formation of an apatite layer on the sample surfaces immersed in the simulated body fluid (SBF) for 5 days. The porous HA-based composites obtained from this study have suitable porous structures, proper mechanical properties, and a high bioactivity, and thus finds potential application as scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.
Protein and cell micropatterning and its integration with micro/nanoparticles assembly.	Micropatterning of proteins and cells has become very popular over the past decade due to its importance in the development of biosensors, microarrays, tissue engineering and cellular studies. This article reviews the techniques developed for protein and cell micropatterning and its biomedical applications. The prospect of integrating micro and nanoparticles with protein and cell micropatterning is discussed. The micro/nanoparticles are assembled into patterns and form the substrate for proteins and cell attachment. The assembled particles create a micro or nanotopography, depending on the size of the particles employed. The nonplanar structure can increase the surface area for biomolecules attachment and therefore enhance the sensitivity for detection in biosensors. Furthermore, a nanostructured substrate can influence the conformation and functionality of protein attached to it, while cellular response in terms of morphology, adhesion, proliferation, differentiation, etc. can be affected by a surface expressing micro or nanoscale structures. Proteins and cells tend to lose their normal functions upon attachment to substrate. By recognizing the types of topography that are favourable for preserving proteins and cell behaviour, and integrating it with micropattering will lead to the development of functional protein and cell patterns.
Construction of chitosan-gelatin-hyaluronic acid artificial skin in vitro.	To further enhance the properties of chitosan (Cs)-gelatin (Gel) scaffolds for skin tissue engineering, hyaluronic acid (HA) is introduced to the Cs-gel complex. Porous scaffolds composed of Cs, Gel, and HA are prepared using the freeze-drying method. The scaffold has an interconnected pore structure with two different pore size layers. The water uptake ability, flexibility, and biocompatibility of the scaffold are greatly increased with the incorporation of HA. To construct an artificial skin in vitro, fibroblasts and keratinocytes are co-cultured in Cs-Gel-HA scaffolds at an air-liquid interface. After 2 weeks of co-culture, the epithelial layer becomes progressively stratiform, including cubic perpendicularly oriented cells and a superficial layer of flattened cells. Immunohistochemical analyses confirmed the presence of laminin and type IV collagen, typical molecules of the basement membrane. The results of this study suggest that it is possible to construct a functional artificial skin in vitro and the Cs-Gel-HA scaffold is a promising matrix for skin tissue engineering.
Modulation of depth-dependent properties in tissue-engineered cartilage with a semi-permeable membrane and perfusion: a continuum model of matrix metabolism and transport.	The functional properties of cartilaginous tissues are determined predominantly by the content, distribution, and organization of proteoglycan and collagen in the extracellular matrix. Extracellular matrix accumulates in tissue-engineered cartilage constructs by metabolism and transport of matrix molecules, processes that are modulated by physical and chemical factors. Constructs incubated under free-swelling conditions with freely permeable or highly permeable membranes exhibit symmetric surface regions of soft tissue. The variation in tissue properties with depth from the surfaces suggests the hypothesis that the transport processes mediated by the boundary conditions govern the distribution of proteoglycan in such constructs. A continuum model (DiMicco and Sah in Transport Porus Med 50:57-73, 2003) was extended to test the effects of membrane permeability and perfusion on proteoglycan accumulation in tissue- engineered cartilage. The concentrations of soluble, bound, and degraded proteoglycan were analyzed as functions of time, space, and non-dimensional parameters for several experimental configurations. The results of the model suggest that the boundary condition at the membrane surface and the rate of perfusion, described by non-dimensional parameters, are important determinants of the pattern of proteoglycan accumulation. With perfusion, the proteoglycan profile is skewed, and decreases or increases in magnitude depending on the level of flow-based stimulation. Utilization of a semi-permeable membrane with or without unidirectional flow may lead to tissues with depth-increasing proteoglycan content, resembling native articular cartilage.
New skin-equivalent model from de-epithelialized amnion membrane.	The presence of pre-existing basement membrane (BM) components improves the morphogenesis of epidermis and BM in constructing a human living skin-equivalent (LSE). De-epithelialized amniotic membrane (AM) retains key BM components. We have therefore investigated the usefulness of AM for constructing LSE. De-epithelialized AM was overlaid on type I collagen gel embedded with fibroblasts. Normal human keratinocytes (NHKs) were then seeded onto the epithelial side of the AM to construct an AM-LSE. A conventional LSE was constructed by seeding NHKs on a fibroblast-populated type I collagen gel. When the keratinocytes reached confluence, the LSE was lifted to the air-liquid interface and cultured for up to 3 weeks. Samples were harvested at various times and investigated morphologically, immunohistochemically, and ultrastructurally. In AM-LSE, the epidermis was better stratified, with more compact, polarized, columnar basal cells, and the expression of differentiation and proliferation markers was more similar to that of normal human skin than was that of LSE without AM. A more continuous BM and better-developed hemidesmosomes were found in AM-LSE. The epidermis of AM-LSE outgrew much faster than that of LSE without AM. When transplanted onto nude mice, both LSEs took well; however, the AM-LSE graft showed better morphogenesis of the epidermis, BM, and hemidesmosomes. The better epidermal morphology and better-developed BM in AM-LSE in vitro and in vivo indicates its superiority over LSE without AM for clinical applications.
In vitro self-assembly of proepicardial cell aggregates: an embryonic vasculogenic model for vascular tissue engineering.	Proepicardial/epicardial-derived cells are the main origin of the early embryonic coronary vascular bed. In vivo coronary vasculogenesis, which is a fast-occurring event, can be mimicked in vitro by culturing proepicardial tissue in different ways. The in vitro vasculogenic model presented in this study (a proepicardial suspension culture assay) partially reproduces coronary vascular development from its cellular precursors, a process known to be highly dependent on cell migration, cell differentiation, cell adhesion/sorting, and tissue fusion phenomena. The main aim of this study is to study the triggering signals and the cellular dynamics that regulate the differentiation of proepicardial cells into the angioblastic/endothelial lineage and their in vitro vasculogenic potential. Our results indicate that hanging drop-cultured proepicardia, which have an intrinsic vascular potential, behave like self-assembling cell aggregates or spheroids that can fuse to give rise to complex vascularized 3D structures. We believe that these self-assembling cell aggregates are an optimal choice to study the differentiation of coronary angioblasts, as well as a good method to reproduce vascular development in vitro. Finally, we propose the proepicardium as a suitable cellular source for vascular tissue engineering.
Gene delivery strategies for cartilage tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering is a multifaceted technology developed with a purpose of regenerating complex tissues and organs. Cartilage regeneration continues to challenge engineers and a new wave of efforts focus on developing strategies that provide sustained stimulation to cells by growth factors and other biological molecules to promote their differentiation into chondrocytes. Though significant research is dedicated to developing controlled release systems that deliver growth factors directly, a simpler approach to resolving this dilemma involves converting cells into protein producing factories. This is done through gene delivery. Gene Therapy studies published for articular diseases such as rheumatoid and osteoarthritis provide valuable information regarding different types of cells, gene delivery vectors and genes that can potentially be used to regenerate cartilage. Tissue engineering approaches provide the opportunity to combine two or more strategies used for Gene Therapy thus far and create a cohesive system that addresses both cartilage degeneration and synthesis simultaneously. Adopting gene transfer techniques for tissue engineering is a relatively novel approach, as non-viral gene delivery vectors are continually optimized for therapeutic purposes, and reservations about viral vectors have increasingly dampened their appeal. However, every element involved in gene transfection (i.e., the cell, vector and gene) is a variable which decides the physiological and biomechanical properties of the cartilage produced, and significant work still needs to be done in understanding the contribution of each of these factors to cartilage regeneration.
The role of gene therapy for craniofacial and dental tissue engineering.	Basic science advances in bone tissue engineering using osteoinductive protein therapy have already been translated to the use in patients with selected orthopedic problems. The story of the development of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) osteoinductive therapy, from the discovery of this class of molecules in 1965 to the publication of randomized clinical trials in 2001 for tibial non-unions and 2002 for spinal fusion, is truly fascinating. Both clinical studies showed healing equivalence of the BMP-bioimplant compared to a free non-vascularized bone graft but without the associated donor site morbidity. These advances unfortunately have not lead to rapid application of using BMP osteoinductive protein therapy for reconstructing most craniofacial bone defects, with clinical case series beginning to be reported only for limited small-sized defects. This is a reflection of the complexity and unique characteristics of most craniofacial defects, which will likely require a more robust osteoinductive signal than delivering recombinant protein on a scaffold for clinically meaningful bone regeneration. Gene therapy approaches are promising for overcoming the unique challenges that are characteristic of craniofacial and dental defects.
Collagen mimetic peptide-conjugated photopolymerizable PEG hydrogel.	Collagen mimetic peptide (CMP) with a specific amino acid sequence, -(Pro-Hyp-Gly)(x)-, forms a triple helix conformation that resembles the native protein structure of natural collagens. CMP previously has been shown to associate with type I collagen molecules and fibers via a strand invasion process. We hypothesized that when poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogel, a non-adhesive tissue engineering scaffold, is conjugated with CMP, it may retain cell-secreted collagens and also form physical crosslinks that can be manipulated by cells. A photopolymerizable CMP derivative was synthesized and copolymerized with poly(ethylene oxide) diacrylate to create a novel PEG hydrogel. In a model retention experiment, diffusional loss of type I collagen that was added to the hydrogel was limited. Chondrocytes were encapsulated in the hydrogel to examine its use as a tissue engineering scaffold. After 2 weeks, the biochemical analysis of the CMP-conjugated PEG gel revealed an 87% increase in glycosaminoglycan content and a 103% increase in collagen content compared to that of control PEG hydrogels. The histology and immunohistochemistry analyses also showed increased staining of extracellular matrix. These results indicate that the CMP enhances the tissue production of cells encapsulated in the PEG hydrogel by providing cell-manipulated crosslinks and collagen binding sites that simulate natural extracellular matrix.
Equibiaxial strain stimulates fibroblastic phenotype shift in smooth muscle cells in an engineered tissue model of the aortic wall.	Many cells in the body reside in a complex three-dimensional (3D) environment stimulated by mechanical force. In vitro bioreactor systems have greatly improved our understanding of the mechanisms behind cell mechanotransduction. Current systems to impose strain in vitro are limited either by the lack of uniform strain profile or inability to strain 3D engineered tissues. In this study, we present a system capable of generating cyclic equibiaxial strain to an engineered vascular wall model. Type I collagen hydrogels populated with rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMCs) were created either as a compacting disk or constrained hemisphere. Both models were adhered to silicone membranes precoated with collagen I, fibronectin, or Cell-Tak and assayed for adhesion characteristics. The best performing model was then exposed to 48 h of 10% strain at 1Hz to simulate wall strain profiles found in vascular aneurysms, with static cultures serving as controls. The finite strain profile at the level of the membrane and the free surface of the construct was quantified using microbeads. The results indicate that the hemisphere model adhered with Cell-Tak had the most stable adhesion, followed by fibronectin and collagen I. Disk models did not adhere well under any coating condition. Uniform strain propagation was possible up to a maximum area strain of 20% with this system. RASMC responded to 10% equibiaxial strain by becoming less elongated, and immunohistochemistry suggested that stretched RASMC shifted to a more synthetic phenotype in comparison to static controls. These results suggest that equibiaxial strain may induce smooth muscle cell differentiation. We conclude that this system is effective in stimulating cells with cyclic equibiaxial strain in 3D cultures, and can be applied to a variety of biomaterial and tissue engineering applications.
Vascularization and engraftment of a human skin substitute using circulating progenitor cell-derived endothelial cells.	We seeded tissue engineered human skin substitutes with endothelial cells (EC) differentiated in vitro from progenitors from umbilical cord blood (CB-EC) or adult peripheral blood (AB-EC), comparing the results to previous work using cultured human umbilical vein EC (HUVEC) with or without Bcl-2 transduction. Vascularized skin substitutes were prepared by seeding Bcl-2-transduced or nontransduced HUVEC, CB-EC, or AB-EC on the deep surface of decellularized human dermis following keratinocyte coverage of the epidermal surface. These skin substitutes were transplanted onto C.B-17 SCID/beige mice receiving systemic rapamycin or vehicle control and were analyzed 21 d later. CB-EC and Bcl-2-HUVEC formed more human EC-lined vessels than AB-EC or control HUVEC; CB-EC, Bcl-2-HUVEC, and AB-EC but not control HUVEC promoted ingrowth of mouse EC-lined vessels. Bcl-2 transduction increased the number of human and mouse EC-lined vessels in grafts seeded with HUVEC but not with CB-EC or AB-EC. Both CB-EC and AB-EC-induced microvessels became invested by smooth muscle cell-specific alpha-actin-positive mural cells, indicative of maturation. Rapamycin inhibited ingrowth of mouse EC-lined vessels but did not inhibit formation of human EC-lined vessels. We conclude that EC differentiated from circulating progenitors can be utilized to vascularize human skin substitutes even in the setting of compromised host angiogenesis/vasculogenesis.
In vitro studies of annulus fibrosus disc cell attachment, differentiation and matrix production on PDLLA/45S5 Bioglass composite films.	The aim of this study was to investigate the potential of using PDLLA/45S5 (PDLLA--poly(D,L-lactide)) Bioglass composite films for the culture of annulus fibrosus (AF) cells in vitro with a view to a tissue engineering application. PDLLA films incorporated with different percentages (0, 5 and 30 (wt%)) of Bioglass particles were prepared by solvent casting and characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), water contact angle and white-light interferometry. Bovine AF cell morphology and attachment were analysed using SEM. Cytoskeletal organization was determined by actin labelling with FITC-phalloidin using fluorescence microscopy. The amount of sulphated glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) and collagen produced by AF cells were quantified using the 1,9-dimethylmethylene blue (DMMB) and Sircol assays after 4 weeks in culture. Composite films of PDLLA filled with Bioglass are an appropriate substrate for annulus cells and these films promote the production of an extracellular matrix (ECM) containing abundant sGAGs and collagen. These findings provide a basis for the understanding of the production of ECM molecules by cells cultured on 2D PDLLA/45S5 Bioglass composite films. The results will provide new insights into the design and development of composites containing Bioglass and resorbable polymers as scaffolds for intervertebral disc tissue repair.
Micropatterning with aerosols: application for biomaterials.	Adhesion and proliferation behaviors of bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) were investigated on surfaces micropatterned with peptides using a novel approach. This micropatterning technique allows modification of macroscopic three-dimensional (3D) biomaterials surfaces and exploits the semi-random properties of aerosols and the principles of liquid atomization. The possibility to control cell behaviors on polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) surfaces tailored with this micropatterning approach was evaluated. CGRGDS and CWQPPRARI peptides were selected for their adhesive, migration and spreading properties. Culture of BAECs on patterned PTFE showed the possibility of modulating cell behaviors. The study showed that CGRGDS spots with a diameter of 10+/-2 microm over a background of CWQPPRARI peptides was the most effective combination to enhance endothelialization of PTFE. This micropatterning technique is innovative, easily adaptable, simple, and rapid for covering large 3D areas.
Outgrowth endothelial cells isolated and expanded from human peripheral blood progenitor cells as a potential source of autologous cells for endothelialization of silk fibroin biomaterials.	One challenge of particular importance in tissue engineering is to improve vascularization of larger size defects, which would then facilitate a sufficient supply with oxygen and nutrients to the central regions of a larger tissue-engineered construct or in highly vascularized tissues. In this study, we show that outgrowth endothelial cells (OECs) derived from human peripheral blood can serve as a source of human autologous endothelial cells and can be used in combination with fibroin silk fiber meshes for applications in tissue engineering. OEC reveal a highly differentiated endothelial phenotype as well as a high phenotypic stability during their expansion. Furthermore, OEC showed very promising results in the endothelialization of fibroin silk fiber meshes, maintaining their endothelial characteristics and functions. On the fibroin fiber meshes OECs formed differentiated endothelial cell layers covering the single fibers as shown by data from scanning electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and gene expression analysis. After embedding in a wound-healing matrix, mimicked by fibrin gels, OEC migrated from the fibroin scaffolds into the fibrin and formed a microvessel-like network. Thus, we conclude that OEC could serve as a valuable source of autologous endothelial cells, supporting pro-angiogenic therapies in combination with silk fibroin-based scaffolding materials in the field of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Surface immobilization of active vascular endothelial growth factor via a cysteine-containing tag.	Developing tissue engineering scaffolds with immobilized growth factors requires facile and reliable methods for the covalent attachment of functionally active proteins. We describe here a new approach to immobilize recombinant proteins based on expression of the protein of interest with a 15-aa long fusion tag (Cys-tag), which avails a free sulfhydryl group for site-specific conjugation. To validate this approach, we conjugated a single-chain vascular endothelial growth factor expressed with an N-terminal Cys-tag (scVEGF) to fibronectin (FN) using a common thiol-directed bi-functional cross-linking agent. We found that the FN-scVEGF conjugate retains VEGF activity similar to that of free scVEGF when used as a soluble ligand. Cells expressing VEGF receptor VEGFR-2 grown on plates coated with FN-scVEGF displayed morphological phenotypes similar to those observed for cells grown on FN in the presence of equivalent amounts of free scVEGF. In addition, 293/KDR cell growth stimulation was observed in the same concentration range with either immobilized or free scVEGF. The effects of immobilized scVEGF, and soluble scVEGF were blocked by NVP-AAD777-NX, a VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. These data indicate that site-specific immobilization via Cys-tag provides a facile and reliable method for permanent deposition of functionally active growth factors on synthetic or protein scaffolds with applications for advanced tissue engineering.
Porous acellular bovine pericardia seeded with mesenchymal stem cells as a patch to repair a myocardial defect in a syngeneic rat model.	A patch is often mandatory to repair myocardial defects; however, currently available patches lack the possibility of regeneration. To overcome this limitation, a porous acellular bovine pericardium seeded with BrdU-labeled mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) was prepared (the MSC patch) to repair a surgically created myocardial defect in the right ventricle of a syngeneic rat model. The bovine pericardium before cell extraction was used as a control (the Control patch). The implanted samples were retrieved at 4- and 12-week postoperatively (n=5 per group at each time point). At retrieval, no aneurysmal dilation of the implanted patches was seen for both studied groups. No apparent tissue adhesion was observed for the MSC patch throughout the entire course of the study, while for the Control patch, two out of the five studied animals at 12-week postoperatively had a filmy adhesion to the chest wall. On the inner (endocardial) surface, intimal thickening was observed for both studied groups; however, no thrombus formation was found. Intact layers of endothelial and mesothelial cells were identified on the inner and outer (epicardial) surfaces of the MSC patch. Smooth muscle cells together with neo-muscle fibers, neo-glycosaminoglycans and neo-capillaries were observed within the pores of the MSC patch. Some cardiomyocytes, which stained positively for BrdU and alpha-sacromeric actin, were observed in the MSC patch, indicating that the implanted MSCs can engraft and differentiate into cardiomyocytes. Additionally, a normality of the local electrograms on the epicardial surface of the MSC patch was observed. In contrast, no apparent tissue regeneration was observed for the Control patch throughout the entire course of the study, while only abnormal electrogram signals were seen on its epicardial surface. In conclusion, the MSC patch may preserve the structure of the ventricular wall while providing the potential for myocardial tissue regeneration.
Integrin specificity and enhanced cellular activities associated with surfaces presenting a recombinant fibronectin fragment compared to RGD supports.	Biomimetic strategies focusing on presenting short bioadhesive oligopeptides, including the arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) motif present in numerous adhesive proteins, on a non-fouling support have emerged as promising approaches to improve cellular activities and healing responses. Nevertheless, these bio-inspired strategies are limited by low activity of the oligopeptides compared to the native ligand due to the absence of complementary or modulatory domains. In the present analysis, we generated well-defined biointerfaces presenting RGD-based ligands of increasing complexity to directly compare their biological activities in terms of cell adhesion strength, integrin binding and signaling. Mixed self-assembled monolayers of alkanethiols on gold were optimized to engineer robust supports that present anchoring groups for ligand tethering within a non-fouling, protein adsorption-resistant background. Controlled bioadhesive interfaces were generated by tethering adhesive ligands via standard peptide chemistry. On a molar basis, biointerfaces functionalized with the FNIII7-10 recombinant fragment presenting the RGD and PHSRN adhesive motifs in the correct structural context exhibited significantly higher adhesion strength, FAK activation, and cell proliferation rate than supports presenting RGD ligand or RGD-PHSRN, an oligopeptide presenting these two sites separated by a polyglycine linker. Moreover, FNIII7-10-functionalized surfaces displayed specificity for alpha5beta1 integrin, while cell adhesion to supports presenting RGD or RGD-PHSRN was primarily mediated by alphavbeta3 integrin. These results are significant to the rational engineering of bioactive materials that convey integrin binding specificity for directed cellular and tissue responses in biomedical and biotechnological applications.
Fabrication of agar-gelatin hybrid scaffolds using a novel entrapment method for in vitro tissue engineering applications.	Scaffolds of agar and gelatin were developed using a novel entrapment method where agar and gelatin molecules mutually entrapped one another forming stable cell adhesive matrices. Glutaraldehyde was used as a crosslinking agent for gelatin. Three types of hybrid matrices were prepared using agar and gelatin in different proportions in the weight ratio of 1:1, 2:1, and 3:1. Surface characterization of dry scaffolds was carried out by scanning electron microscope. Swelling studies were carried out in phosphate buffer saline (PBS) at physiological pH 7.4. The integral stability of the scaffolds was evaluated by estimating the released disintegrated gelatin from them in PBS at pH 7.4. The attachment kinetics of the cells was evaluated by culturing mouse fibroblast cell line NIH 3T3 on films. The cytocompatibility of these matrices was determined by studying growth kinetics of NIH 3T3 cells on them and morphology of cells was observed through optical photographs taken at various days of culture. It was found that the matrices containing agar and gelatin in 2:1 weight ratio exhibited best growth kinetics. The results obtained from these studies have suggested that the above-described method is a cheap and easy way to fabricate agar-gelatin hybrid scaffolds to grow cells which can be used in various in vitro tissue engineering applications like screening of drugs.
Stem cells--potential for repairing damaged lungs and growing human lungs for transplant.	Repair or regeneration of defective lung epithelium would be of great therapeutic potential. It is estimated by the British Lung Foundation that 1 in 7 people in the UK is affected by a lung disease and that 1 in 4 admissions to children's wards are as a result of respiratory problems. Potential cellular sources for the regeneration of lung tissue in vivo or lung tissue engineering in vitro include endogenous pulmonary epithelial stem cells, extrapulmonary circulating stem cells and embryonic stem cells. This article discusses the potential role of each of these stem cell types in future approaches to the treatment of lung injury and disease.
Postnatal myocardial augmentation with skeletal myoblast-based fetal tissue engineering.	Cardiac anomalies constitute the most common birth defects, many of which involve variable myocardial deficiencies. Therapeutic options for structural myocardial repair remain limited in the neonatal population. This study was aimed at determining whether engineered fetal muscle constructs undergo milieu-dependent transdifferentiation after cardiac implantation, thus becoming a potential means to increase/support myocardial mass after birth.
Perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging for monitoring vascularization in tissue-engineered bone in rhesuses]	To assess the value of perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (PWMRI) in monitoring vascularization in tissue-engineered bone graft.
Vascularized organoid engineered by modular assembly enables blood perfusion.	Tissue engineering is one approach to address the donor-organ shortage, but to attain clinically significant viable cell densities in thick tissues, laboratory-constructed tissues must have an internal vascular supply. We have adopted a biomimetic approach and assembled microscale modular components, consisting of submillimeter-sized collagen gel rods seeded with endothelial cells (ECs) into a (micro)vascularized tissue; in some prototypes the gel contained HepG2 cells to illustrate the possibilities. The EC-covered modules then were assembled into a larger tube and perfused with medium or whole blood. The interstitial spaces among the modules formed interconnected channels that enabled this perfusion. Viable cell densities were high, within an order of magnitude of cell densities within tissues, and the percolating nature of the flow through the construct was evident in microcomputed tomography and Doppler ultrasound measurements. Most importantly, the ECs retained their nonthrombogenic phenotype and delayed clotting times and inhibited the loss of platelets associated with perfusion of whole blood through the construct. Unlike the conventional scaffold and cell-seeding paradigm of other tissue-engineering approaches, this modular construct has the potential to be scalable, uniform, and perfusable with whole blood, circumventing the limitations of other approaches.
Effects of mixing intensity on cell seeding and proliferation in three-dimensional fibrous matrices.	Nonwoven fibrous matrices have been widely used in cell and tissue cultures because their three-dimensional (3-D) structures with large surface areas and pore spaces can support high-density cell growth. Although cell adherence and growth on 2-D surfaces have been thoroughly investigated, very little is known for cells cultured in 3-D matrices. The effects of mixing intensity on cell seeding, adherence, and growth in fibrous matrices were thus investigated. Chinese Hamster Ovary and osteosarcoma cells were inoculated into nonwoven polyethylene terephthalate matrices by dynamic and static seeding methods, of which the former was found to be superior in seeding efficiency and cell distribution in the matrices. Dynamic seeding increased seeding efficiency from approximately 40% to more than 90%. When higher mixing intensities were applied, both cell attachment and detachment rates increased. Cell attachment was transport limited, as indicated by the increased attachment rate with increasing the mass transfer coefficient of the cells. Meanwhile, cell detachment from the 3-D matrix can be described by the Bell model. The effects of matrix pore size on cell adherence and proliferation were also investigated. In general, the smaller pore size is favorable to cell attachment and proliferation. Further analysis revealed that the interaction between mixing intensity and pore size played a vital role in hydrodynamic damage to cells, which was found to be significant when the Kolomogorov eddy size was smaller than the matrix pores. Increasing mixing intensity also increased oxygen transfer, decreased the lactate yield from glucose, and improved cell growth.
Dermal templates and the wound-healing paradigm: the promise of tissue regeneration.	Dermal regeneration templates arguably represent the first and most clinically successful 'tissue engineering' solution designed for organ reconstruction. Wound healing in the skin normally occurs on a continuum. At one extreme of the continuum lies the promise of tissue regeneration and the complete restoration of normal structure and function. Unfortunately, in the adult, all too often, wound healing occurs at the other extreme of the continuum and the dermis is reconstituted as scar tissue. Dermal regeneration templates are designed to manage the wound-healing process and tip the scales toward regeneration. This review discusses the architecture and molecular composition of the skin and the events that mediate wound healing and scar formation. The development, evolution and commercialization of dermal templates are examined and the clinical and business considerations that drive the product-development cycle are discussed. In the near term, dermal templates cannot be expected to dramatically change in overall composition. Product development will be dominated by continued refinements of existing templates and the field of use will continue to expand as manufacturers seek to increase revenue and capture market share. Continued exploration of novel processing strategies, such as electrospinning, that can be used to fabricate nanoscale biomaterials, may provide a gateway to the next generation of dermal templates.
Apoptosis in human glioblastoma cells produced using embryonic stem cell-derived astrocytes expressing tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.	Embryonic stem (ES) cell-derived astrocytes have several theoretical and practical advantages as gene therapy vectors in the treatment of malignant gliomas. The aim of this study was to test the proapoptotic effects of ES cell-derived astrocytes expressing transgenic tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) in human malignant glioma cells.
Skin gene therapy for acquired and inherited disorders.	The rapid advances associated with the Human Genome Project combined with the development of proteomics technology set the bases to face the challenge of human gene therapy. Different strategies must be evaluated based on the genetic defect to be corrected. Therefore, the re-expression of the normal counterpart should be sufficient to reverse phenotype in single-gene inherited disorders. A growing number of candidate diseases are being evaluated since the ADA deficiency was selected for the first approved human gene therapy trial (Blaese et al., 1995). To cite some of them: sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, inherited immune deficiencies, hyper-cholesterolemia and cystic fibrosis. The approach does not seem to be so straightforward when a polygenic disorder is going to be treated. Many human traits like diabetes, hypertension, inflammatory diseases and cancer, appear to be due to the combined action of several genes and environment. For instance, several wizard gene therapy strategies have recently been proposed for cancer treatment, including the stimulation of the immune system of the patient (Xue et al., 2005), the targeting of particular signalling pathways to selectively kill cancer cells (Westphal and Melchner, 2002) and the modulation of the interactions with the stroma and the vasculature (Liotta, 2001; Liotta and Kohn, 2001).
A comparative histologic analysis of tissue-engineered bone using platelet-rich plasma and platelet-enriched fibrin glue.	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and platelet-enriched fibrin glue on bone formation in bone tissue engineering.
Construction of a complete rabbit cornea substitute using a fibrin-agarose scaffold.	To construct a full-thickness biological substitute of the rabbit cornea by tissue engineering.
Model for human skin reconstructed in vitro composed of associated dermis and epidermis.	The technique of obtaining human skin with dermis and epidermis reconstructed from cells isolated from patients can enable autologous skin grafting on patients with few donor sites. It also enables in vitro trials on chemicals and drugs. The objective of this work was to demonstrate a method for obtaining human skin composed of associated dermis and epidermis, reconstructed in vitro.
Inductive tissue engineering with protein and DNA-releasing scaffolds.	Cellular differentiation, organization, proliferation and apoptosis are determined by a combination of an intrinsic genetic program, matrix/substrate interactions, and extracellular cues received from the local microenvironment. These molecular cues come in the form of soluble (e.g. cytokines) and insoluble (e.g. ECM proteins) factors, as well as signals from surrounding cells that can promote specific cellular processes leading to tissue formation or regeneration. Recent developments in the field of tissue engineering have employed biomaterials to present these cues, providing powerful tools to investigate the cellular processes involved in tissue development, or to devise therapeutic strategies based on cell replacement or tissue regeneration. These inductive scaffolds utilize natural and/or synthetic biomaterials fabricated into three-dimensional structures. This review summarizes the use of scaffolds in the dual role of structural support for cell growth and vehicle for controlled release of tissue inductive factors, or DNA encoding for these factors. The confluence of molecular and cell biology, materials science and engineering provides the tools to create controllable microenvironments that mimic natural developmental processes and direct tissue formation for experimental and therapeutic applications.
Autologous full-thickness skin substitute for healing chronic wounds.	Chronic wounds represent a major problem to our society. Therefore, advanced wound-healing strategies for the treatment of these wounds are expanding into the field of tissue engineering.
The experiment of porcine keratinocytes cultured on porcine small intestinal submucosa in vitro]	To investigate the feasibility of acellular porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS as bioscaffold of tissue engineering skin.
Grafting an acellular 3-dimensional collagen scaffold onto a non-transmural infarcted myocardium induces neo-angiogenesis and reduces cardiac remodeling.	This study was designed to determine whether tissue engineering could be used to reduce ventricular remodeling in a rat model of non-transmural, non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
Anisotropic scaffolds facilitate enhanced neurite extension in vitro.	Tissue engineering (TE) techniques to enhance nerve regeneration following nerve damage have had limited success in matching the performance of autografts across short nerve gaps (< 10 mm). For regeneration over longer nerve gaps, TE techniques have been less successful than autografts. Most engineered scaffolds do not present directional cues to the regenerating nerves. In our efforts to design a TE scaffold to replace the autograft, we hypothesize that anisotropic hydrogel scaffolds with gradients of a growth-promoting glycoprotein, laminin-1 (LN-1), may promote directional neurite extension and enhance regeneration. In this study we report the engineering of three-dimensional (3D) agarose scaffolds with photoimmobilized gradients of LN-1 of differing slopes. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from chicken embryos were cultured in the agarose scaffolds and their neurite extension rate was determined. DRG neurite extension rates were significantly higher in the anisotropic scaffolds, with a maximal growth rate in an anisotropic scaffold twice that of the maximal growth rate in isotropic scaffolds of LN-1. We suggest that these anisotropic scaffolds, presenting an optimal gradient of LN-1, may significantly impact nerve regeneration. Such anisotropic scaffolds may represent a new generation of tissue engineered materials with built-in directional cues for guided tissue or nerve regeneration.
Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) hollow fibre membranes for use as a tissue engineering scaffold.	Mass transfer limitations of scaffolds are currently hindering the development of 3-dimensional, clinically viable, tissue engineered constructs. We have developed a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) hollow fibre membrane scaffold that will provide support for cell culture, allow psuedovascularisation in vitro and provide channels for angiogenesis in vivo. We produced P(DL)LGA flat sheet membranes using 1, 4-dioxane and 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP) as solvents and water as the nonsolvent, and hollow fibre membranes, using NMP and water, by dry/wet- and wet-spinning. The resulting fibres had an outer diameter of 700 micro m and an inner diameter of 250 micro m with 0.2-1.0 micro m pores on the culture surface. It was shown that varying the air gap and temperature when spinning changed the morphology of the fibres. The introduction of a 50 mm air gap caused a dense skin of 5 micro m thick to form, compared to a skin of 0.5 micro m thick without an air gap. Spinning at 40 degrees C produced fibres with a more open central section in the wall that contained more, larger macrovoids compared to fibres spun at 20 degrees C. Culture of the immortalised osteogenic cell line 560pZIPv.neo (pZIP) was carried out on the P(DL)LGA flat sheets in static culture and in a P(DL)LGA hollow fibre bioreactor under counter-current flow conditions. Attachment and proliferation was statistically similar to tissue culture polystyrene on the flat sheets and was also successful in the hollow fibre bioreactor. The P(DL)LGA hollow fibres are a promising scaffold to address the size limitations currently seen in tissue engineered constructs.
Thermally induced gelable polymer networks for living cell encapsulation.	We report the encapsulation of MIN6 cells, a pancreatic beta-cell line, using thermally induced gelable materials. This strategy uses aqueous solvent and mild temperatures during encapsulation, thereby minimizing adverse effects on cell function and viability. Using a 2:1 mixture of PNIPAAm-PEG-PNIPAAm tri-block copolymer and PNIPAAm homopolymer that exhibit reversible sol-to-gel transition at approximately 30 degrees C, gels were formed that exhibit mechanical integrity, and are stable in H(2)O, PBS and complete DMEM with negligible mass loss at 37 degrees C for 60 days. MTT assays showed undetectable cytotoxicity of the polymers towards MIN6 cells. A simple microencapsulation process was developed using vertical co-extrusion and a 37 degrees C capsule collection bath containing a paraffin layer above DMEM. Spherical capsules with diameters ranging from 500 to 900 microm were formed. SEM images of freeze-dried capsules with PBS as the core solution showed homogenous gel capsule membranes. Confocal microscopy revealed that the encapsulated cells tended to form small aggregates over 5 days, and staining for live and dead cells showed high viability post-encapsulation. A static glucose challenge with day-5 cultured microencapsulated cells exhibited glucose-dependent insulin secretion comparable to controls of free MIN6 cells grown in monolayers. These results demonstrate the potential use of these thermo-responsive polymers as cell encapsulation membranes.
Enhancing oxygen tension and cellular function in alginate cell encapsulation devices through the use of perfluorocarbons.	Encapsulation devices are often hindered by the inability to achieve sufficient oxygen levels for sustaining long-term cell survival both in vivo and in vitro. We have investigated the use of synthetic oxygen carriers in alginate gels to improve metabolic activity and viability of HepG2 cells over time. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), specifically perfluorotributylamine (PFTBA) and perfluorooctylbromide (PFOB), were emulsified with alginate and used to encapsulate HepG2 cells in a spherical geometry. Cellular state was assessed using the MTT assay and Live/Dead stain as well as through analysis of both lactate and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels which are indirect indicators of oxygen availability. Addition of 1% surfactant resulted in stable emulsions with evenly dispersed PFC droplets of the order of 1-2 microm in diameter, with no influence on cell viability. Both PFCs evaluated were effective in increasing cellular metabolic activity over alginate-only gels. The presence of 10% PFOB significantly increased cellular growth rate by 10% and reduced both intracellular LDH and extracellular lactate levels by 20-40%, improving glucose utilization efficiency. The characteristic drop in cellular metabolic activity upon encapsulation was eliminated with addition of 10% PFC and viability was better maintained throughout the bead, with a significant decrease in necrotic core size. Results were consistent under a physiologically relevant 5% oxygen environment. The incorporation of PFC synthetic oxygen carriers into encapsulation matrices has been successfully applied to improve cell function and viability with implication for a variety of tissue engineering applications.
Markedly different effects of hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate-A on the differentiation of human articular chondrocytes in micromass and 3-D honeycomb rotation cultures.	A source of morphologically and functionally available human cartilagenous tissue for implantation is required in the field of tissue engineering. To achieve this goal, we evaluated the effects of hyaluronic acid (HA-810 and 1680 kDa), and chondroitin sulfate (CS-A 16 and C-34 kDa) on human articular chondrocytes (HC) in micromass and rotation culture conditions. Cell proliferation was increased by CS-A 16 kDa under micromass and rotation cultures, while cell differentiation was increased under rotation but not micromass conditions. Proliferation and differentiation due to CS-C 34 kDa were very similar to the control under both culture conditions. With HA, cell proliferation was increased depending on the molecular weight under micromass and rotation conditions. In contrast, chondrocyte differentiation was enhanced under rotation conditions, but decreased under micromass conditions depending on the molecular weight of HA. In both culture conditions, aggrecan gene was continuously expressed. However, the collagen type II gene was more weakly expressed in rotation than the micromass culture conditions. Thus, the chemical structures of polysaccharides, and the culture condition, rotation or micromass, caused differences in chondrogenesis.
Cultivation of MC3T3-E1 cells on a newly developed material (Sponceram) using a rotating bed system bioreactor.	The influence of a 3D macroporous scaffold (Sponceram) on the differentiation process into bone cells was investigated under static conditions in cell culture dishes. Furthermore, cultivations were performed using a new bioreactor system in the presence or absence of bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2). Preosteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells were first cultured on Sponceram scaffolds in 96-well dishes using standard medium, differentiation medium and BMP-2 medium. Cell proliferation showed a similar course for all conditions used. Alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity resulted in a maximum at day 5 in the presence of BMP-2. Two bioreactor cultivations were performed in a BIOSTAT Bplus RBS (rotating bed system) 500 on Sponceram carrier discs. One cultivation was performed using standard medium. The second one was used with the same medium with BMP-2 substituted. Significant calcification of the extracellular matrix in the presence of BMP-2 occurred but even in the absence of BMP-2 mineralization was observed. mRNA expression of collagen I, osteocalcin and bone sialoprotein was detected after both reactor cultivations. This study demonstrates that macroporous Sponceram is suitable for the cultivation and differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells into the osteoblastic phenotype. The results of the bioreactor cultivation revealed that the scaffold promoted the differentiation process even in the absence of BMP-2.
A quantitative method for evaluating the degradation of biologic scaffold materials.	Scaffolds derived from naturally occurring extracellular matrix (ECM) have found extensive use in the fields of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Many of these scaffolds are designed to degrade rapidly as they are replaced by new host tissue. Other scaffolds are chemically crosslinked to slow the rate of degradation or add strength to the scaffold. Commercially available ECM scaffolds have considerable variability with regards to tissue origin and methods of processing, and little is known about their rate of degradation and the fate of their degradation products. A novel method is described herein to integrally label ECM with a radioactive isotope ((14)C). It was found that a number of tissues are efficiently labeled, including heart, liver, trachea, pancreas, small intestine, and urinary bladder tissue. Of the tissues analyzed, only spleen was not found to contain detectable levels of (14)C. The technique is extremely sensitive, accurate, and safe, but requires access to accelerator mass spectrometry, and is expensive and time consuming. This model represents the first described quantitative method to determine the rate of degradation for an ECM scaffold and to track the fate of the degradation products.
Induction of directional sprouting angiogenesis by matrix gradients.	The fate of any tissue engineering implant relies upon an adequate oxygen and nutrients supply throughout the cellular construct and, hence, by the ability of the scaffold to induce and guide vascular ingrowth. However, implant vascularization is usually an uncontrolled process that takes several weeks. In this work, we assessed the feasibility of controlling vascular sprout rate and direction within three-dimensional collagen-hyaluronic acid semi-interpenetrated networks by modulating the spatial distribution of the matricellular cues. Results indicated that increasing amount of hyaluronic acid (HA) within the matrix led to a progressive inhibition of sprouting. In HA-rich matrices, the sprout number and the propagation rate showed a 2.7- and 4-fold reduction, respectively, compared to collagen matrices. Furthermore, by creating HA gradients within the collagen network, we were able to direct and enhance the sprouting rate. This study provides an experimental platform for controlling vascularization of engineered tissues.
Biofunctionalization of collagen for improved biological response: scaffolds for corneal tissue engineering.	Residual dendrimer amine groups were modified with incorporate COOH group containing biomolecules such as cell adhesion peptides into collagen scaffolds. YIGSR, as a model cell adhesion peptide, was incorporated into both the bulk structure of the gels and onto the gel surface. The effects of the peptide modified collagen gels on corneal epithelial cell behavior were examined with an aim of improving the potential of these materials as tissue-engineering scaffolds. YIGSR was first chemically attached to dendrimers and the YIGSR attached dendrimers were then used as collagen crosslinkers, incorporating the peptide into the bulk structure of the collagen gels. YIGSR was also attached to the surface of dendrimer crosslinked collagen gels through reaction with excess amine groups. The YIGSR modified dendrimers were characterized by H-NMR and MALDI mass spectra. The amount of YIGSR incorporated into collagen gels was determined by (125)I radiolabelling at maximum to be 3.1-3.4 x 10(-2)mg/mg collagen when reacted with the bulk and 88.9-95.6 microg/cm(2) when attached to the surface. The amount of YIGSR could be tuned by varying the amount of peptide reacted with the dendrimer or the amount of modified dendrimer used in the crosslinking reaction. It was found that YIGSR incorporation into the bulk and YIGSR modification of surface promoted the adhesion and proliferation of human corneal epithelial cells as well as neurite extension from dorsal root ganglia.
Polylysine-functionalised thermoresponsive chitosan hydrogel for neural tissue engineering.	Foetal mouse cortical cells were cultured on 2D films and within 3D thermally responsive chitosan/glycerophosphate salt (GP) hydrogels. The biocompatibility of chitosan/GP 2D films was assessed in terms of cell number and neurites per cell. Osmolarity of the hydrogel was a critical factor in promoting cell survival with isotonic GP concentrations providing optimal conditions. To improve cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth, poly-D-lysine (PDL) was immobilised onto chitosan via azidoaniline photocoupling. Increase in PDL concentrations did not alter cell survival in 2D cultures but neurite outgrowth was significantly inhibited. Neurons exhibited a star-like morphology typical of 2D culture systems. The effects of PDL attachment on cell number, cell morphology and neurite outgrowth were more distinct in 3D culture conditions. Neurones exhibited larger cell bodies and sent out single neurites within the macroporous gel. Immobilised PDL improved cell survival up to an optimum concentration of 0.1%, however, further increases resulted in drops in cell number and neurite outgrowth. This was attributed to a higher cell interaction with PDL within a 3D hydrogel compared to the corresponding 2D surface. The results show that thermally responsive chitosan/GP hydrogels provide a suitable 3D scaffolding environment for neural tissue engineering.
Assessment of hepatocellular function within PEG hydrogels.	Tissue-engineered therapies for liver failure offer the potential to augment or replace whole organ transplantation; however, fabrication of hepatic tissue poses unique challenges largely stemming from the complexity of liver structure and function. In this study, we illustrate the utility of highly-tunable, photopolymerizable poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels for 3D encapsulation of hepatic cells and highlight a range of techniques important for examining hepatocellular function in this platform. Owing to our long-term interest in incorporating proliferative progenitor cell types (e.g. hepatoblasts, oval cells, or cells derived from embryonic stem cells) and maintaining the phenotype of differentiated cells, we explored the behavior of bipotential mouse embryonic liver (BMEL) cells as a model progenitor cell and mature, fully differentiated, primary hepatocytes in this biomaterial system. We demonstrated the importance of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions in the survival and function of these cell types, and the capacity to influence encapsulated cell phenotypes through modulation of hydrogel characteristics or gene silencing. Additionally, we demonstrated imaging techniques critical for the in situ assessment of encapsulated hepatocyte function combined with the ability to control cellular organization and overall architecture through microscale patterning technologies. Further analysis of liver progenitor as well as mature hepatocyte processes within the versatile PEG hydrogel platform will aid in the development of tissue engineered implantable liver systems.
Synthesis of two-component injectable polyurethanes for bone tissue engineering.	The advent of injectable polymer technologies has increased the prospect of developing novel, minimally invasive arthroscopic techniques to treat a wide variety of ailments. In this study, we have synthesised and evaluated a novel polyurethane-based injectable, in situ curable, polymer platform to determine its potential uses as a tissue engineered implant. Films of the polymers were prepared by reacting two pentaerythritol-based prepolymers, and characterised for mechanical and surface properties, and cytocompatibility. This polymer platform displayed mechanical strength and elasticity superior to many injectable bone cements and grafts. Cytotoxicity tests using primary human osteoblasts, revealed positive cell viability and increased proliferation over a period of 7 days in culture. This favourable cell environment was attributed to the hydrophilic nature of the films, as assessed by dynamic contact angle (DCA) analysis of the sample surfaces. The incorporation of beta-TCP was shown to improve mechanical properties, surface wettability, and cell viability and proliferation, compared to the other sample types. SEM/EDX analysis of these surfaces also revealed physicochemical surface heterogeneity in the presence of beta-TCP. Based on preliminary mechanical analysis and cytotoxicity results, these injectable polymers may have a number or potential orthopaedic applications; ranging from bone glues to scaffolds for bone regeneration.
Fibrin gel improved the spatial uniformity and phenotype of human chondrocytes seeded on collagen scaffolds.	A scaffold made of equine collagen type I based material has been assessed for its use in the preparation of tissue-engineered cartilage implants with human articular chondrocytes. Improvements of cell-seeding efficiency and specific gene expression were studied by combining solid scaffold with fibrin glue or human blood plasma. Following 3 weeks of static culture, mRNA expression levels of collagen type I, collagen type II, aggrecan and versican were analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR and compared to those in native cartilage and monolayer cell cultures. Constructs prepared with fibrin glue or plasma showed higher cell seeding efficiencies than those prepared without gel. Chondrocytes seeded directly onto a collagen scaffold appeared fibroblastic in shape while those encapsulated in fibrin gel were spherical. The presence of fibrin glue positively influences on mRNA levels of collagen type II and aggrecan, while blood plasma enhanced only the level of collagen type II expression. Levels of collagen type I and versican decreased in presence of fibrin glue. In orthopaedics, the combination of solid collagen fleece with fibrin gel for implant preparation is seen to be preferred over solid material or even cells in a suspension, since fibrin gel improves seeding capacity of the scaffold, supports equal distribution of cells and stimulates higher chondrogenic phenotype expression.
Techniques for biological characterization of tissue-engineered tendon and ligament.	Injuries to tendons and ligaments are prevalent and result in a significant decrease in quality of patient life. Tissue-engineering strategies hold promise as alternatives to current treatments for these injuries, which often fail to fully restore proper joint biomechanics and produce significant donor site morbidity. Commonly, tissue engineering involves the use of a three-dimensional scaffold seeded with cells that can be directed to form tendon/ligament tissue. When determining the success of such approaches, the viability and proliferation of the cells in the construct, as well as extracellular matrix production and structure should be taken into account. Histology and histochemistry, microscopy, colorimetric assays, and real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) are techniques that are employed to assess these biological characteristics. This review provides an overview of each of these methods, including specific examples of how they have been used in evaluation of tissue-engineered tendon and ligament tissue. Basic physical principles underlying each method and advantages and disadvantages of the various techniques are summarized.
Segmental bone regeneration using a load-bearing biodegradable carrier of bone morphogenetic protein-2.	Segmental defect regeneration has been a clinical challenge. Current tissue-engineering approach using porous biodegradable scaffolds to delivery osteogenic cells and growth factors demonstrated success in facilitating bone regeneration in these cases. However, due to the lack of mechanical property, the porous scaffolds were evaluated in non-load bearing area or were stabilized with stress-shielding devices (bone plate or external fixation). In this paper, we tested a scaffold that does not require a bone plate because it has sufficient biomechanical strength. The tube-shaped scaffolds were manufactured from poly(propylene) fumarate/tricalcium phosphate (PPF/TCP) composites. Dicalcium phosphate dehydrate (DCPD) were used as bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) carrier. Twenty-two scaffolds were implanted in 5mm segmental defects in rat femurs stabilized with K-wire for 6 and 15 weeks with and without 10 microg of rhBMP-2. Bridging of the segmental defect was evaluated first radiographically and was confirmed by histology and micro-computer tomography (microCT) imaging. The scaffolds in the BMP group maintained the bone length throughout the duration of the study and allow for bridging. The scaffolds in the control group failed to induce bridging and collapsed at 15 weeks. Peripheral computed tomography (pQCT) showed that BMP-2 does not increase the bone mineral density in the callus. Finally, the scaffold in BMP group was found to restore the mechanical property of the rat femur after 15 weeks. Our results demonstrated that the load-bearing BMP-2 scaffold can maintain bone length and allow successfully regeneration in segmental defects.
Plasticity of epidermal adult stem cells derived from adult goat ear skin.	Here we report the isolation and characterization of pluripotent stem cells from adult goat skin. We found that these primary cells have the properties of embryonic stem cells (ESC), including the expression of appropriate immunological markers and the capability of forming embryoid bodies. The subcultured cells also show the characteristics of stem cells, such as the expression of CK19, beta(1-)integrin, P63, and formation of holo-clones in culture. Therefore, we termed these cells epidermal adult stem cells (EpiASC), although their origin was not identified. We have shown that clones of individual EpiASC proliferate and differentiate in culture to produce neurons, cardiomyocytes, osteoblasts, and occytes. Further, we cultivated EpiASC on bioengineered dermis and denuded human amniotic membrane (HAM), to reconstruct artificial skin and corneal epithelium. We successfully transplanted those artificial tissues in goats with acute full-thickness skin defect (AFTSD) and limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD), respectively. Our results showed that indeed EpiASC reconstructed the skin (hair was observed in restored areas), and repaired the damaged cornea of goats with total LSCD. These data confirm that EpiASC can differentiate into different functional cell types in vivo or in vitro. Due to their high degree of inherent plasticity, and to their easy accessibility for collection from the skin, EpiASC are excellent candidate sources for diverse cell therapies.
Crosslinking of discrete self-assembled collagen threads: Effects on mechanical strength and cell-matrix interactions.	Bundles of threads extruded from type I collagen have been researched extensively as scaffolds to promote the repair and regeneration of torn tendons and ligaments. The success of these scaffolds has been limited by insufficient tissue ingrowth from the wound margin, which may be inhibited by the chemical or physical crosslinking treatment used to increase the mechanical properties and decrease the degradation rate of these scaffolds. Recently, self-assembled collagen threads extruded from solutions of type I collagen molecules were shown to possess ultimate tensile strengths and structural properties comparable to native tendon fibers; however the tissue response to these threads has yet to be determined. The goal of this study was to investigate the effects of various crosslinking techniques on the mechanical properties as well as the in vitro rate of new tissue ingrowth on these threads. Our findings indicate that the physical crosslinking techniques, dehydrothermal (DHT) or ultraviolet light (UV), most significantly improve the mechanical strengths of the threads, but most significantly decrease the rate of cell migration. In contrast, carbodiimide (EDC) crosslinking achieved sub-optimal strength generation, but demonstrated improved cell migration rates. Future studies will investigate the design of threads with surface biochemistries that maximize tissue ingrowth while maintaining the mechanical stability of the scaffold.
Factors affecting the structure and properties of an injectable self-setting calcium phosphate foam.	One of the main challenges in the investigation on calcium phosphate cements (CPC) lies in the introduction of macroporosity, without loosing the self-setting ability and injectability, characteristic of the cement-type materials. The benefits of macroporosity are related to the enhancement of bone regeneration mechanisms, such as angiogenesis and tissue ingrowth. In this work, the feasibility to obtain self-setting injectable macroporous hydroxyapatite foams by the incorporation of a protein-based foaming agent to a CPC is demonstrated. Albumen is combined with an alpha-tricalcium phosphate [Ca3(PO4)2, alpha-TCP] paste, which hydrolyzes to a calcium deficient hydroxyapatite during the setting reaction. A systematic study is presented, where the effect of different processing parameters is analyzed in terms of porosity, setting properties, injectability, and compressive strength. Self-setting foams with porosities up to 70%, which maintain their porous structure after injection, are obtained. These injectable foams can be used both for direct in vivo applications and for the fabrication of low temperature tissue engineering scaffolds.
Osteoblastic response to collagen scaffolds varied in freezing temperature and glutaraldehyde crosslinking.	Collagen sponges are widely used scaffolds in bone engineering. To form bone, the osteoblastic cells undergo proliferation, differentiation, and mineralization stages in the scaffold. Crosslinking and freezing temperature are two important variables in fabricating collagen sponges. The purpose of this study was to examine the osteoblastic responses to collagen sponges prepared with or without glutaraldehyde crosslinking at different freezing temperatures (-20 degrees C or -80 degrees C). MC3T3-E1 osteoblastic cells were cultured in differently prepared sponges. Osteoblastic responses examined included cell numbers, osteocalcin expression, and calcium deposition. Cell numbers were measured by DNA content. Osteocalcin expression was determined by RT-PCR and real-time RT-PCR. Calcium deposition was assayed by ortho-cresophthalein complexone method and von Kossa stain. The osteoblastic cells grown in all collagen sponges did not show apparent signs of cytotoxicity. Collagen sponges differed in freezing temperatures resulted in similar osteoblastic responses. Glutaraldehyde-crosslinked sponges demonstrated less cell-mediated contraction and more cell numbers at day 7 (p < 0.005). However, they showed lower osteocalcin expression at day 7 (p < 0.05) and less calcium deposition at day 21 (p < 0.001). In summary, different freezing temperatures played a minor role in osteoblastic responses. Glutaraldehyde crosslinking process, though improved the dimensional stability of collagen sponges, might compromise the osteoblastic differentiation and mineralization.
Rational design of hydrogels for tissue engineering: impact of physical factors on cell behavior.	When designing suitable biomaterials for tissue-engineering applications, biological and chemical parameters are frequently taken into account, while the equally important physical design variables have often been neglected. For a rational design of biomaterials, however, all variables influencing cell function and tissue morphogenesis have to be considered. This review will stress the development of cross-linked hydrogels and outline the impact of their physical properties on cell function and tissue morphogenesis. In the first part, the principles of cellular mechanosensitivity, as well as the influence of substrate mechanics on cell behavior, will be discussed. Afterwards, methods to characterize the mechanical properties of biomaterials will be presented. The subsequent chapters will address hydrogels that allow for the control of their physical qualities followed by a discussion of their use in tissue-engineering applications.
Fabrication and in vitro characterization of porous biodegradable composites based on phosphate glasses and oligolactide-containing polymer networks.	Degradable porous composite materials for use as temporary bone replacement or tissue engineering scaffolds were produced using a methacrylate-modified oligolactide polymer network and phosphate invert glasses in the system P2O5-CaO-MgO-Na2O-(TiO2). Porous glasses with an open interconnective porosity were produced by a salt sintering process. Compressive strengths were significantly enhanced by polymer coating of the inner surface of the porous glasses or by fabrication of glass powder-reinforced porous polymer specimens. In vitro degradation in simulated body fluid showed a degradation pattern of the composites which could be modulated by the composition and resulting solubility of the incorporated glass phase. Cytocompatibility of the composites was investigated in a FDA/EtBr viability assay using an MC3T3-E1 osteoblast-like cell line and showed good biocompatibility of the materials in vitro.
Activation of demineralized bone matrix by genetically engineered human bone morphogenetic protein-2 with a collagen binding domain derived from von Willebrand factor propolypeptide.	There is a large demand for new bone regeneration to restore the function during bone injuries. Bone filling materials are important in bone tissue restoration. In this study, the demineralized bone matrix (DBM) was activated with the engineering human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2). To enhance the binding of BMP-2 to the DBM scaffolds, a collagen-binding peptide was fused to the N-terminal of BMP-2. The in vitro results showed that the engineered collagen-targeted BMP-2 (rhBMP2-v) bound to DBM scaffolds specifically and the rhBMP2-v had increased alkaline phosphatase activity in C2C12 cells. In vivo, the DBM scaffolds impregnated with rhBMP2-v showed greater effect on ectopic bone formation. Our data suggested that the collagen-based BMP-2 targeting bone repair system had greater bone inducing ability than DBM loaded with regular BMP-2.
Three-dimensional collagen fiber remodeling by mesenchymal stem cells requires the integrin-matrix interaction.	Tissue engineering aiming to repair or regenerate damaged tissues necessitates fabricating three-dimensional biomaterial scaffolds with controlled porosity for delivering cells. To facilitate cell distribution, a strategy using stem cell-based fabrication of biomaterials was tested in type II collagen fibers. Human mesenchymal stem cells when delivered in type II collagen assembled and reorganized these matrices and differentiated into spherical chondrocytes with the synthesis of cartilage proteins. The cell-mediated assembly and reorganization of collagen fibers was not limitless and only restricted to an appropriate ratio of cell number and collagen amount. The blocking of alpha2 or beta1-integrin function with specific antibodies significantly impeded the collagen-assembly effects. In vitro chondrogenesis or in vivo cartilage formation of human mesenchymal stem cells was also dependent on the interactions between cells and surrounding matrices. This method for three-dimensional fabricating collagen fibers may generally be applied to other biomaterials, when combined with surface modification or ligand addition for cell adhesion.
Dissolution kinetics of a Si-rich nanocomposite and its effect on osteoblast gene expression.	Silica-calcium phosphate nanocomposite (SCPC) has recently been proposed as a novel resorbable, bioactive, and mechanically compatible template for bone reconstruction. The effect of the physicochemical properties on the surface reactivity and dissolution kinetics of SCPC immersed in simulated body fluid (SBF) was investigated and compared to that of bioactive glass (BG). Moreover, the stimulatory effect on osteoblast gene expression of SCPC was determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and compared to that of hydroxyapatite (HA-200). Mercury porosimetry revealed that surface areas of SCPC particles containing 10 (SCPC10), 30 (SCPC30), and 50 (SCPC50) wt % Si-content were 14-, 18-, and 32-times higher than that of BG. Inductively coupled plasma analysis showed that after 192 h of immersion, Si-rich SCPC50 exhibited controlled bulk-dissolution and released 43.1 ppm Si, which was sixfold higher than that released from BG (7.7 ppm). Moreover, SCPC50 showed a rapid Ca-uptake from SBF and developed a surface apatite layer after only 2 h, whereas a similar layer was detected on BG after 8 days of immersion under the same experimental conditions. qRT-PCR revealed that osteopontin and osteocalcin mRNA expression by osteoblast-like cells attached to Si-rich SCPC50 was significantly higher than that on HA-200 or polystyrene after 2 days in culture. This suggested a role of dissolved Si in stimulating the differentiation and mineralization of osteoblast precursor cells. The favorable physiochemical and bioactivity properties of Si-rich SCPC nanocomposite indicate that SCPC can have wide applications as a synthetic bone graft for cell delivery applications in tissue engineering.
Supplementation with a complex of active nutrients improved dermal and epidermal characteristics in skin equivalents generated from fibroblasts from young or aged donors.	Cultured skin equivalent (SE, Mimeskin) was generated by co-culturing skin fibroblasts and keratinocytes on a collagen-glycosaminoglycan-chitosan dermal substrate. In order to examine donor age effect, fibroblasts from 19- (young) or 49- (aged) year-old females were used. Culture medium was supplemented with nutrients complex containing soy extract, tomato extract, grape seed extract, white tea extract, sodium ascorbate, tocopherol acetate, zinc gluconate and BioMarine complex. Epidermal and dermal structure and composition were examined after 42 and 60 days of culture. In untreated samples, SE generated from young fibroblasts was superior to SE from aged fibroblasts in all characteristics. Those include number and regularity of keratinocyte layers, number of keratinocytes expressing proliferation marker Ki67, content of collagen type I, fibrillin-1, elastin, and SE lifespan. Effects of nutritional supplementation were observed in SE from both young and aged fibroblasts, however, those effects were more pronounced in SE from aged fibroblasts. In epidermis, the treatment increased number of keratinocyte layers and delayed epidermal senescence. The number of cells expressing Ki67 was nine folds higher than those of controls, and was similar to that of young cell SE. In dermis, the treatment increased mRNA synthesis of collagen I, fibrillin-1 and elastin. In conclusion, skin cell donor age had major important effect on formation of reconstructed SE. Imperfections in epidermal and dermal structure and composition as well as life span in SE from aged cells can be improved by supplementation with active nutrients.
Permeability of the reconstructed human epidermis model Episkin in comparison to various human skin preparations.	The objective of this work was to compare the barrier function of the small diameter reconstructed human epidermis model Episkin (d=12 mm) to human skin in vitro. For that purpose a modification for the Franz diffusion cell (d=15mm) had to be developed so as to allow direct comparison with the following human skin preparations: Full thickness skin (FTS), split thickness skin (STS), heat-separated epidermis (HSE), and trypsin isolated stratum corneum (TISC). Among the tested preparations, HSE appeared to be the most preferable due to its clear morphological structure and ease of preparation. The lipid profile of HSE and Episkin was analyzed and showed significant differences in terms of cholesterol, ceramides and triglycerides contents, whereas cholesterol esters and fatty acids were not different. Permeation data with HSE and Episkin were then gathered using caffeine and testosterone. Both test compounds permeated much faster through Episkin than through HSE. Moreover, opposed to Episkin, HSE differentiated between the two test compounds. In spite of the remarkable progress in developing RHEs in the past years at this time Episkin can obviously not yet fully replace human skin for in vitro permeability experiments.
The effect of gradually graded shear stress on the morphological integrity of a huvec-seeded compliant small-diameter vascular graft.	The premature endothelialization of tissue-engineered grafts had often induced cellular detachment at an early period of implantation in arterial circulation, resulting in occlusion at an early period of implantation. This study was aimed to determine whether gradually increased shear stress applied ex vivo improves cell retention and tissue morphological integrity including cell shape and alignment, actin fiber alignment and expression of vascular endothelial (VE) cadherin. Tissue-engineered grafts used for this study were human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC)-seeded compliant small-diameter grafts made of poly(L-lactide-co-epsilon-caprolactone) fiber meshes fabricated by electrospinning. The shear stresses applied to grafts, generated using a custom-designed mock circulatory apparatus, were 3.2, 8.7 and 19.6 dyn/cm(2). The grafts completely monolayered prior to shear stress exposure exhibited a polygonal cobblestone morphology with randomly distributed actin fibers and VE cadherin at the continuous peripheral region of adjacent cells. The 24-h-loading of high shear stresses (8.7 and 19.6 dyn/cm(2)) equivalent to those of the arterial circulatory system resulted in severe cellular damage resulting in the complete loss of cells. However, a gradually increased graded exposure from a low (3.2 dyn/cm(2)) to a high shear stress (19.6 dyn/cm(2)) resulted in a markedly reduced cell detachment, a highly elongated cell shape, and orientation or alignment of both cells and actin fibers, which were parallel to the direction of flow. Although VE-cadherin expression was not detected yet, a higher degree of tissue integrity was achieved, which may greatly improve the performance particularly at an early period of implantation.
Effects of cardiac patches engineered with bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells and PGCL scaffolds in a rat myocardial infarction model.	Little is known about the cardioprotective effects against heart failure (HF), the effects on differentiation of bone marrow-derived mononuclear cell (BMMNC), and the biocompatibility of BMMNC-seeded biodegradable poly-glycolide-co-caprolactone (PGCL) scaffolds in a myocardial infarction (MI) animal model. This study hypothesized that implantation of a BMMNC-seeded PGCL scaffold into the epicardial surface in a rat MI model would be biocompatible, induce BMMNC migration into infarcted myocardium, and effectively improve left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. One week after the implantation of a BMMNC-seeded PGCL scaffold, BMMMC showed migration into the epicardial region. Four weeks after implantation, augmented neovascularization was observed in infarcted areas and in infarct border zones. Some BMMNCs exhibited the presence of alpha-MHC and troponin I, markers of differentiation into cardiomyocytes. In echocardiographic examinations, BMMNC-seeded PGCL scaffold and non-cell-seeded simple PGCL scaffold groups effectively reduced progressive LV dilatation and preserved LV systolic function as compared to control rat MI groups. Thus, BMMNC-seeded PGCL scaffolding influences BMMNC migration, differentiation to cardiomyocytes, and induction of neovascularization, ultimately effectively lessening LV remodeling and progressive LV systolic dysfunction. PGCL scaffolding can be considered as an effective treatment alternative in MI-induced advanced HF.
The effect of electrochemical functionalization of Ti-alloy surfaces by aptamer-based capture molecules on cell adhesion.	To improve cell seeding efficiency and cytocompatibility, we designed a new coating material for scaffolds. We used aptamers, highly specific cell binding nucleic acids generated by combinatorial chemistry with an in vitro selection called systematic evolution of exponential enrichment (SELEX). In this study, we functionalized Ti-alloy surfaces to enhance cell adhesion. By coating the material with a cell specific aptamer, working as a capture molecule, we could improve the attachment of cells effectively and avoid the limitations of the currently available materials. Aptamers, immobilized by partial electrochemical entrapment in oxide layers on Ti-alloy surfaces were able to capture cells out of a flowing suspension rapidly. This model proves that surface immobilized aptamers can greatly enhance the attachment of seeded cells. This technology opens new perspectives towards clinical application of stem cell and tissue engineering strategies.
Combined marrow stromal cell-sheet techniques and high-strength biodegradable composite scaffolds for engineered functional bone grafts.	In this study, cell sheets comprising multilayered porcine bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) were assembled with fully interconnected scaffolds made from medical-grade polycaprolactone-calcium phosphate (mPCL-CaP), for the engineering of structural and functional bone grafts. The BMSC sheets were harvested from culture flasks and wrapped around pre-seeded composite scaffolds. The layered cell sheets integrated well with the scaffold/cell construct and remained viable, with mineralized nodules visible both inside and outside the scaffold for up to 8 weeks culture. Cells within the constructs underwent classical in vitro osteogenic differentiation with the associated elevation of alkaline phosphatase activity and bone-related protein expression. In vivo, two sets of cell-sheet-scaffold/cell constructs were transplanted under the skin of nude rats. The first set of constructs (5 x 5 x 4mm(3)) were assembled with BMSC sheets and cultured for 8 weeks before implantation. The second set of constructs (10 x 10 x 4mm(3)) was implanted immediately after assembly with BMSC sheets, with no further in vitro culture. For both groups, neo cortical and well-vascularised cancellous bone were formed within the constructs with up to 40% bone volume. Histological and immunohistochemical examination revealed that neo bone tissue formed from the pool of seeded BMSC and the bone formation followed predominantly an endochondral pathway, with woven bone matrix subsequently maturing into fully mineralized compact bone; exhibiting the histological markers of native bone. These findings demonstrate that large bone tissues similar to native bone can be regenerated utilizing BMSC sheet techniques in conjunction with composite scaffolds whose structures are optimized from a mechanical, nutrient transport and vascularization perspective.
Nanobiomaterial applications in orthopedics.	Advancements in nanobiotechnology are revolutionizing our capability to understand biological intricacies and resolve biological and medical problems by developing subtle biomimetic techniques. Nanocomposites and nanostructured materials are believed to play a pivotal role in orthopedic research since bone itself is a typical example of a nanocomposite. This article reviews current strategies using nanobiomaterials to improve current orthopedic materials and examines their applications in bone tissue engineering. Preliminary investigations support the potential of nanobiomaterials in orthopedic applications; however, significant advancements are necessary to achieve clinical use. Overall, current trends in nanobiotechnology foreshadow a bright future through the use of nanobiomaterials in the orthopedic domain.
Modeling of encapsulated cell systems.	Tissue engineered substitutes consisting of cells in biocompatible materials undergo remodeling with time as a result of cell growth and death processes. With inert matrices that do not directly influence cell growth, remodeling is driven mainly by the concentration of dissolved oxygen (DO). Insulin-secreting cell lines encapsulated in alginate-based beads and used as a pancreatic substitute represent such a case. Beads undergo remodeling with time so that an initially homogeneous distribution of cells is eventually replaced by a dense peripheral ring of primarily viable cells, whereas inner cells are mostly necrotic. This paper develops and analyzes a mathematical model of an encapsulated cell system of spherical geometry that tracks the viable and dead cell densities and the concentration of DO within the construct as functions of radial position and time. Model simulations are compared with experimental histology data on cell distribution. Correlations are then developed between the average intrabead DO concentration (AIDO) and the total viable cell number, as well as between AIDO and the radial cell and DO distributions in beads. As AIDO can be measured experimentally by incorporating a perfluorocarbon emulsion in the beads and acquiring (19)F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopic data, these correlations can be used to track the remodeling that occurs in the construct in vitro and potentially in vivo. The usefulness of mathematical models in describing the dynamic changes that occur in tissue constructs with time, and the value of these models at obtaining additional information on the system when used interactively with experimental measurements, are discussed.
Tissue engineered cartilage: utilization of autologous serum and serum-free media for chondrocyte culture.	Standard culture medium contains bovine serum. If standard culture methodology is used for future human tissue-engineering, unknown risks of infection from bovine disease or immune reaction to foreign proteins theoretically might occur. In this study we wished to evaluate the potential of chondrocyte expansion using autologous and serum free media.
In vitro study comparing two collageneous membranes in view of their clinical application for rotator cuff tendon regeneration.	Tenocytes were isolated from the rotator cuff tendons of healthy (HT) and glucocorticoid (GC)-treated rats (GCT) and were cultured on polystyrene wells (TCP) as control, and on 2 de-cellularized collagen matrices: porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS), and human dermal matrix (Graftjacket, GJ). At 3 and 7 days cell proliferation and synthesis were evaluated. Proliferation of HT tenocytes increased between experimental times for both tested membranes, but already at 3 days, HT tenocytes cultured on GJ showed the highest WST-1 value. The collagen-I (CICP) synthesis on GJ membrane did not change between experimental times and was significantly higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. Proteoglycans (PG), and fibronectin (FBN) synthesis increased when HT were cultured on GJ, between experimental times, and both PG and FBN synthesis on GJ membrane were higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. GC determined decreases in cell proliferation, CICP and PG syntheses at 3 days of culture on TCP when compared to HT tenocytes while a decrease in WST-1 was maintained at 7 days. CICP, PG and FBN (only at 3 days) syntheses were significantly higher in GCT tenocytes cultured on GJ. The negative effects on GC on GCT tenocytes cultured on membrane were particularly evident on SIS for CICP (-18%) and FBN (-67%) synthesis. The obtained results support the conclusion that GJ is more suitable than SIS as a scaffold for in situ tissue engineering and for the in vitro bioengineering of tendons to heal massive tears of the rotator cuff tendon.
Modulation of nano-hydroxyapatite size via formation on chitosan-gelatin network film in situ.	Natural bone is actually an inorganic/organic composite mainly make up of nano-hydroxyapatite (Ca(10)(PO(4))(6)(OH)(2), nHA) and collagen fibers. It is most important to form nHA/polymer composites in order to provide good biocompatibility and integration with bone tissue. In this work, nHA was formed in-situ on the surface of chitosan-gelatin (CG) network films in tris-buffer solution containing Ca(NO(3))(2)-Na(3)PO(4). The interaction between CG network film and nHA crystalline were studided using the diffuse reflectance FT-IR (ATR-FTIR), thermal analysis (TGA) and X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD), and the influence the nHA size factors, e.g. the ratio of chitosan (CS) and gelatin (Gel), concentration of calcium ions and reaction temperature, were elucidated by XRD and transmission electron microscope (TEM). Results suggested that carboxyl groups, CO and amino groups play crucial roles for HA formatting on the surface of CG network films and the average size of nHA crystalline decreasing with enhancing Gel content and increase with the increasing calcium and phosphate concentration, and when the reaction temperature below 50 degrees C the nHA crystalline size is almost fixedness (range from 17.2 to 19.2 nm) but when the temperature arrived at 70 degrees C it increase to 52.3 nm.
Mechanism of bone induction by KUSA/A1 cells using atelocollagen honeycomb scaffold.	In order to induce new bone formation, mesenchymal stem cells were seeded onto atelocollagen honeycomb scaffold. We evaluated the mechanism of bone induction by KUSA/A1 cells combined with honeycomb atelocollagen scaffold. Scaffold alone, KUSA/A1 cells alone and with scaffold were implanted in the subcutaneous pockets of 4-week-old male SCID mice. The transplants were subjected to radiographical, histological and immunohistochemical examinations after 2 and 4 weeks of implantation. Radiographically, both KUSA/A1 cells alone and KUSA/A1-Scaffold showed some radiopaque areas formation but the latter disclosed a larger amount. Scaffold alone did not show any radiopacity. Histologically, Scaffold alone demonstrated only fibrous connective tissues in the periphery of the scaffold. KUSA/A1 cells alone showed few small islands of new bone formation surrounded by a thin layer of cellular proliferation. On the other hand, KUSA/A1-Scaffold revealed abundant new bone formation as well as cellular proliferation. We also determined the immunolocalization of type I collagen, CD34, Osteocalcin and PCNA in this newly formed bone. Our results indicated that less amount of stem cells are capable to induce the more amount of new bone in tissue engineering. This study support that atelocollagen honeycomb scaffold plays an important role in cellular anchorage and in vessel invasion, giving the precise shape and size for the new bone formation.
Autologous blood vessels engineered from peripheral blood sample.	Although many efforts have been made to generate small-diameter (< or =5mm) vascular grafts by means of tissue engineering, improvement in patency and functionality still remains a great challenge. It is our hypothesis that to achieve long-term functionality and patency, not only the complete lining with endothelial cells but also full biocompatibility is essential.
Adult adipose-derived stem cell attachment to biomaterials.	Attachment of adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) to biomaterials prior to implantation is a possible strategy for mediating inflammation and wound healing. In this study, the ASC percent coverage was measured on common medical grade biosensor materials subjected to different surface treatments. Cell coverage on silicone elastomer (poly-dimethylsiloxane) was below 20% for all surface treatments. Polyimide (Kapton), polyurethane (Pellethane) and tissue culture polystyrene all exhibited >50% coverage for surfaces treated with fibronectin (Fn), fibronectin plus avidin/biotin (dual ligand), and oxygen plasma plus fibronectin treatments (FnO2). The fibronectin treatment performed as well or better on polyimide, polyurethane, and tissue culture polystyrene compared to the dual ligand and fibronectin oxygen plasma-treated surfaces. Cell detachment with increasing shear stresses was <25% for each attachment method on both polyimide and polyurethane. The effects of attachment methods on the basic cell functions of proliferation, metabolism, ATP concentration, and caspase-3 activity were analyzed yielding proliferation profiles that were very similar among all of the materials. No significant differences in metabolism, intracellular ATP, or intracellular caspase-3 activity were observed for any of the attachment methods on either polyimide or polyurethane.
Mesenchymal stem cell ingrowth and differentiation on coralline hydroxyapatite scaffolds.	Culture of osteogenic cells on a porous scaffold could offer a new solution to bone grafting using autologous human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) from the patient. We compared coralline hydroxyapatite scaffolds with pore sizes of 200 and 500 microm for expansion and differentiation of hMSCs. We cultivated the hMSC statically or in spinner flasks for 1, 7, 14 and 21 days and found that the 200-microm pore scaffolds exhibited a faster rate of osteogenic differentiation than did the 500-microm pore scaffolds as shown by an alkaline phosphatase activity assay and real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction for 10 osteogenic markers. The 500-microm scaffolds had increased proliferation rates and accommodated a higher number of cells (shown by DNA content, scanning electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy). Thus the porosity of a 3D microporous biomaterial may be used to steer hMSC in a particular direction. We found that dynamic spinner flask cultivation of hMSC/scaffold constructs resulted in increased proliferation, differentiation and distribution of cells in scaffolds. Therefore, spinner flask cultivation is an easy-to-use inexpensive system for cultivating hMSCs on small to intermediate size 3D scaffolds.
Combinatorial protein display for the cell-based screening of biomaterials that direct neural stem cell differentiation.	Neural stem cell (NSC) has emerged as a potential source for cell replacement therapy following traumatic injuries and degenerative diseases of the central nervous system. However, clinical applications of NSC further require technological advances especially for controlling differentiation of NSC. This study aimed at developing biomaterials that serve to expand undifferentiated NSC or to induce cells with specific phenotypes. Our approach is to construct composite biomaterials that consist of extracellular matrix components and growth factors. In order to optimize matrix-growth factor combinations, we conducted the parallel and rapid screening of composite biomaterials through assays using cell-based arrays. The photo-assisted patterning of an alkanethiol self-assembled monolayer was employed to achieve site-addressable combinatorial immobilization of natural and synthetic matrices incorporated with growth factors including epidermal growth factor (EGF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). NSC obtained from the rat embryonic striatum was cultured directly on the array to screen for cell adhesion, proliferation, and promotion of neuronal and glial specification. The results showed that the significant number of cells adhered to laminin-1, fibronectin, ProNectin, and poly(ethyleneimine). It was found that cells proliferated most extensively on a spot with immobilized EGF among the spots with different matrix-growth factor combinations. The results also showed that neuronal differentiation was promoted on the spots with immobilized NGF or NT-3, and astroglial differentiation with CNTF. Importantly, observed effects of growth factors were frequently altered depending on the type of co-immobilized matrices, suggesting synergic effects of adhesion and growth factor signals.
Primary hepatocyte survival on non-integrin-recognizable matrices without the activation of Akt signaling.	The suppression of the detachment-induced cell death (anoikis) by the interaction between the cells and extracellular matrix (ECM) is necessary for the application of liver tissue engineering because the disruption of interaction with ECM leads hepatocytes to anoikis. It has been considered, in general, that integrin signal plays an important role in the hepatocyte survival although hepatocytes survive on some types of non-integrin-recognizable matrices, such as poly(N-p-vinylbenzyl-4-O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-D-gluconamide) (PVLA) and poly-L-lysine (PLL) for several days without the serum. Anoikis was suppressed in the non-adherent culture of hepatocytes isolated from gld/gld mouse, indicating that Fas signal induces hepatocyte anoikis. Fas production is decreased in the adherent culture of hepatocytes on both integrin- and non-integrin-recognizable matrices. Akt activation was hardly observed in the adherent culture of hepatocytes on non-integrin-recognizable matrices whereas the activation occurred in the adherent culture on integrin-recognizable matrices. In the adherent culture of hepatocytes on non-integrin-recognizable matrices, Akt does not contribute to the hepatocyte survival. To prolong the viability of hepatocytes in the adherent culture on PVLA matrix on which hepatocytes maintain their functions for longer period than those on PLL matrix, it might be a good approach to activate Akt signaling pathway.
Endocrine cell and nerve regeneration in autologous in situ tissue-engineered small intestine.	The purpose of this study was to regenerate a larger size of small intestinal tissue than that of our previous study and to evaluate the regeneration of the endocrine cells (ECC) and nerve system of autologous tissue-engineered small intestine. The effect of implantation of large numbers of smooth muscle cells (SMC) for the regeneration of small intestine was also investigated.
Effects of sulfated hyaluronan on keratinocyte differentiation and Wnt and Notch gene expression.	Sulfated hyaluronan (SHya), which is composed of a sulfated group and hyaluronan (Hya), has high activity on and biocompatibility with cells. When normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs) were incubated in dishes coated with SHya, cell proliferation was suppressed in a dose-dependent manner. The expression levels of keratin 1 and loricrin mRNAs, as detected by real-time RT-PCR, were increased significantly. The expressions of Wnt mRNAs, which play important roles in cell proliferation and differentiation, were modulated. Wnt4 and Wnt6 mRNA expressions were increased compared to controls, while expression of Wnt5a was similar to the control and that of Wnt7a mRNA was decreased. In addition, the expression of Notch mRNAs, which play a critical role in keratinocyte differentiation, were affected. Notch3 mRNA was increased significantly, while Notch1 mRNA was decreased compared to controls, and expression of Notch2 was similar to that of control. These results suggested that a SHya-coated scaffold might be useful for regulating cell activity in tissue engineering.
SEM and 3D synchrotron radiation micro-tomography in the study of bioceramic scaffolds for tissue-engineering applications.	Different biomaterials have been proposed as scaffolds for the delivery of cells and/or biological molecules to repair or regenerate damaged or diseased bone tissues. Particular attention is being given to porous bioceramics that mimic trabecular bone chemistry and structure. Chemical composition, density, pore shape, pore size, and pore interconnection are elements that have to be considered to improve the efficiency of these biomaterials. Commonly, two-dimensional (2D) systems of analysis such as scanning electron microscope (SEM) are used for the characterization and comparison of the scaffolds. Unfortunately, these systems do not allow a complete investigation of the three-dimensional (3D) spatial structure of the scaffold. In this study, we have considered two different techniques, that is, SEM and 3D synchrotron radiation (SR) micro-CT to extract information on the geometry of two hydroxyapatite (HA) bioceramics with identical chemical composition but different micro-porosity, pore size distribution, and pore interconnection pathway. The two scaffolds were obtained with two different procedures: (a) sponge matrix embedding (scaffold FB), and (b) foaming (scaffold EP). Both scaffolds showed structures suitable for tissue-engineering applications, but scaffold EP appeared superior with regard to interconnection of pores, surface on which the new bone could be deposited, and percentage of volume available to bone deposition.
Control of in vitro tissue-engineered bone-like structures using human mesenchymal stem cells and porous silk scaffolds.	Natural bone consists of cortical and trabecular morphologies, the latter having variable pore sizes. This study aims at engineering different bone-like structures using scaffolds with small pores (112-224 microm) in diameter on one side and large pores (400-500 microm) on the other, while keeping scaffold porosities constant among groups. We hypothesized that tissue engineered bone-like structure resulting from silk fibroin (SF) implants is pre-determined by the scaffolds' geometry. To test this hypothesis, SF scaffolds with different pore diameters were prepared and seeded with human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC). As compared to static seeding, dynamic cell seeding in spinner flasks resulted in equal cell viability and proliferation, and better cell distribution throughout the scaffold as visualized by histology and confocal microscopy, and was, therefore, selected for subsequent differentiation studies. Differentiation of hMSC in osteogenic cell culture medium in spinner flasks for 3 and 5 weeks resulted in increased alkaline phosphatase activity and calcium deposition when compared to control medium. Micro-computed tomography (microCT) detailed the pore structures of the newly formed tissue and suggested that the structure of tissue-engineered bone was controlled by the underlying scaffold geometry.
Repair of canine mandibular bone defects with bone marrow stromal cells and porous beta-tricalcium phosphate.	Tissue engineering has become a new approach for repairing bone defects. Previous studies have been limited to the use of slow-degradable scaffolds with bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in mandibular reconstruction. In this study, a 30 mm long mandibular segmental defect was repaired by engineered bone graft using osteogenically induced autologous BMSCs seeded on porous beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP, n=5). The repair of defects was compared with those treated with beta-TCP alone (n=6) or with autologous mandibular segment (n=4). In the BMSCs/beta-TCP group, new bone formation was observed from 4 weeks post-operation, and bony-union was achieved after 32 weeks, which was detected by radiographic and histological examination. In contrast, minimal bone formation with almost fibrous connection was observed in the group treated with beta-TCP alone. More importantly, the engineered bone with BMSCs/beta-TCP achieved a satisfactory biomechanical property in terms of bending load strength, bending displacement, bending stress and Young's modulus at 32 weeks post-operation, which was very close to those of contralateral edentulous mandible and autograft bone (p>0.05). Based on these results, we conclude that engineered bone from osteogenically induced BMSCs and biodegradable beta-TCP can well repair the critical-sized segmental mandibular defects in canines.
Development and characterisation of a full-thickness acellular porcine bladder matrix for tissue engineering.	The aim of this study was to produce a natural, acellular matrix from porcine bladder tissue for use as a scaffold in developing a tissue-engineered bladder replacement. Full-thickness, intact porcine bladders were decellularised by distention and immersion in hypotonic buffer containing 0.1% (w/v) SDS and nuclease enzymes. Histological analysis of the resultant matrices showed they were completely acellular; that the major structural proteins had been retained and that there were some residual poorly soluble intracellular proteins. The amount of DNA per mg dry weight of fresh porcine bladder was 2.8 (+/-0.1) microg/mg compared to 0.1 (+/-0.1) microg/mg in decellularised bladder and biochemical analysis showed proportional differences in the hydroxyproline and glycosaminoglycan content of the tissue before and after decellularisation. Uniaxial tensile testing indicated that decellularisation did not significantly compromise the ultimate tensile strength of the tissue. There was, however, an increase in the collagen and elastin phase slopes indicating decreased extensibility. Cytotoxicity assays using porcine smooth muscle cell cultures excluded the presence of soluble toxins in the biomaterial. In summary, a full-thickness natural acellular matrix retaining the major structural components and strength of the urinary bladder has been successfully developed. The matrix is biocompatible with bladder-derived cells and has potential for use in urological surgery and tissue-engineering applications.
Engineering of human tracheal tissue with collagen-enforced poly-lactic-glycolic acid non-woven mesh: a preliminary study in nude mice.	The purpose of the current study is to fabricate tissue engineered trachea with poly-lactic-glycolic acid (PLGA) non-woven mesh enforced by collagen type I. PLGA fibres coated with collagen solution were put together and fabricated into the shape of a human trachea, after drying and cross-linking treatment, a non-woven mesh with "C" shape formed. Chondrocytes from sheep nasal septum cartilage were expanded in vitro and seeded into PLGA/collagen non-woven mesh in the density of 5.0 x 10(7)mL(-1). After 5 days of in vitro incubation, six Cell-PLGA/collagen composites were implanted subcutaneously into the back of 6 nude mice to prefabricate a tissue engineering trachea. Eight weeks later, the cartilage formation was observed by gross inspection and histological examination. Cartilage-like tissue in the shape of the initial PLGA/collagen scaffold had been regenerated successfully without obvious inflammatory response. The tissue engineered trachea cartilage consisted of evenly spaced lacunae embedded in matrix stained red with safranin-O staining. The amount of GAGs in tissue engineered trachea cartilage reached 71.42% of normal value in native cartilage. This study demonstrated that collagen-enforced PLGA non-woven mesh facilitated the adhesion and proliferation of chondrocytes, it also owned adequate mechanical strength to serve as an ideal scaffold for trachea tissue engineering without internal support.
Enzyme-degradable phosphorylcholine porous hydrogels cross-linked with polyphosphoesters for cell matrices.	Biodegradable highly porous hydrogels composed of poly [2-methacryloyloxyethyl phosphorylcholine (MPC)] cross-linked with polyphosphoesters have been prepared as novel cellular matrices. Well-controlled porous hydrogels were fabricated by using potassium hydrogen carbonate as a porogen salt for forming gas. This process enabled the homogeneous expansion of pores within the polymer hydrogel matrices, leading to well-interconnected high porosity. The mechanical properties of the hydrogels were influenced by the cross-linking density and porous structure. Hydrolysis and enzymatic digestion of the hydrogels were determined under basic conditions. The cross-linking density and porosity influenced the rate of degradation of the hydrogels. Acceleration of the degradation with alkaline phosphatase was also observed. Cultivation of mouse osteoblastic cell (MC3T3-E1) was performed in the highly porous hydrogels and cell viability was well maintained. The rate of cell proliferation also was relatively increased with an increase in the amount of polyphosphoesters in the hydrogel. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was physically absorbed by the hydrogels and effectively induced cell proliferation. In conclusion, the porous hydrogels prepared in this study contributed a suitable environment for three-dimensional cell cultivation and may be useful for cell and tissue matrices.
Neurite guidance on protein micropatterns generated by a piezoelectric microdispenser.	In this study, we developed a microdispenser technique in order to create protein patterns for guidance of neurites from cultured adult mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG). The microdispenser is a micromachined silicon device that ejects 100 picolitre droplets and has the ability to position the droplets with a precision of 6-8 microm. Laminin and bovine serum albumin (BSA) was used to create adhesive and non-adhesive protein lines on polystyrene surfaces (cell culture dishes). Whole-mounted DRGs were then positioned close to the patterns and neurite outgrowth was monitored. The neurites preferred to grow on laminin lines as compared to the unpatterned plastic. When patterns were made from BSA the neurites preferred to grow in between the lines on the unpatterned plastic surface. We conclude that microdispensing can be used for guidance of sensory neurites. The advantages of microdispensing is that it is fast, flexible, allows deposition of different protein concentrations and enables patterning on delicate surfaces due to its non-contact mode of operation. It is conceivable that microdispensing can be utilized for the creation of protein patterns for guiding neurites to obtain in vitro neural networks, in tissue engineering or rapid screening for guiding proteins.
In vivo MR imaging of tissue-engineered human mesenchymal stem cells transplanted to mouse: a preliminary study.	Current progress integrating stem cell biology and tissue engineering techniques has been invaluable to clinical applications. Prior to the application of cellular transplantation technique to patients, we need to establish techniques that can monitor their tissue biodistribution non-invasively. In this study, we proposed an imaging modality using MRI to not only monitor implanted scaffold in vivo, but also to track transplanted cells and behavior around the implant. For this purpose, human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were labeled with superparamagnetic iron oxide (Feridex) and then labeled hMSCs were cultured in a gelatin sponge used as a scaffold to support cell growth and proliferation. Histological assessment and MTT assay showed that cell labeling with MR contrast agent did not harm cell viability. Also, Feridex-labeled hMSCs showed a significant decrease in T2 signal intensity, even within the gelatin sponge in vitro. After implanting the sponge/cell complex in vivo, we could visualize cellular behavior around the implant over time using a noninvasive MRI modality and this finding was correlated with histological study, which illustrates the potential of a new approach proposed here for in vivo monitoring of implanted cell-based tissue-engineered product.
Tissue factor and thrombomodulin expression on endothelial cell-seeded collagen modules for tissue engineering.	The creation of functional tissue engineering constructs to repair or replace diseased tissues requires a well-formed vasculature network within the construct and the endothelial cells lining that vascular bed must display a nonthrombogenic phenotype. A new approach to tissue engineering involves the assembly of smaller components (modules fabricated at the hundred micron scale) into larger constructs. The modules, collagen gel containing the particular tissue cell of interest, are covered with endothelial cells prior to assembly so that the interconnected channels that are formed are lined with endothelial cells, creating a mimic of a vascular network. Here, we confirmed (using confocal microscopy primarily) that the human umbilical vein endothelial cells, seeded on collagen gel modules without a second embedded cell and without flow, bore the molecular markers of low thrombogenicity. Two days, after seeding on the modules, endothelial cells displayed the typical cobblestone morphology, formed tight cell-cell junctions and covered the whole module surface. Immunofluorescence staining showed that at both 2 days and 7 days after seeding, only a few cells expressed tissue factor while this number was dramatically increased after TNFalpha stimulation. On the other hand, thrombomodulin was expressed by the majority of seeded cells and expression was reduced after TNFalpha stimulation.
Increased angiogenesis and blood vessel maturation in acellular collagen-heparin scaffolds containing both FGF2 and VEGF.	An important issue in tissue engineering is the vascularisation of the implanted construct, which often takes several weeks. In vivo, the growth factors VEGF and FGF2 show a combined effect on both angiogenesis and maturation of blood vessels. Therefore, we hypothesise that the addition of these growth factors to an acellular construct increases blood vessel formation and maturation. To systematically evaluate the contribution of each scaffold component with respect to tissue response and in particular to blood vessel formation, five porous scaffolds were prepared and characterised, viz.: collagen, collagen with heparin, and collagen with heparin plus one or two growth factors (rrFGF2 and rrVEGF). Scaffolds were subcutaneously implanted in 3 months old Wistar rats. Of all scaffolds tested, the one with a combination of growth factors displayed the highest density of blood vessels (type IV collagen) and most mature blood vessels (smooth muscle actin). In addition, no hypoxic cells were found in this scaffold at day 7 and 21 (hypoxia inducible factor 1-alpha). These results indicate that the addition of both FGF2 and VEGF to an acellular construct enhances an early mature vasculature. This opens prospects for (acellular) tissue-engineered constructs in conditions as ischaemic heart disease or diabetic ulcers.
Improved osteogenic differentiation of human marrow stromal cells cultured on ion-induced chemically structured poly-epsilon-caprolactone.	The ability to control cell proliferation/differentiation, using material surface, is a main goal in tissue engineering. The objective of this study was to evaluate the attachment, proliferation and differentiation to the osteoblastic phenotype of human marrow stromal cells (MSC) when seeded on poly-epsilon-caprolactone (PCL) thin films before and after irradiation with 10 keV He+. The polymeric surface was characterized as surface chemical structure and composition, roughness and morphology on the micro- and nano-scale, wettability and surface free energy parameters. MSC were obtained from patients undergoing routine hip replacement surgery, expanded in vitro and cultured on untreated PCL and He+ irradiated PCL films for up to 4-5 weeks in osteogenic medium. He+-irradiation led to slight smoothening of the surface and different nanoscale surface chemical structure, while surface free energy resulted unchanged in comparison to untreated PCL. The results from biological testing demonstrated that early attachment and further proliferation, as well as osteoblastic markers, were higher for MSC on He+-irradiated PCL. In conclusion, the change of PCL surface properties induced by ion beam irradiation is confirmed to enhance the adhesion of MSC and support their differentiation.
Culturing of glial and neuronal cells on polysialic acid.	Although peripheral nerves exhibit regeneration capacities after transection injuries, the success of nerve repair depends crucially on the length of the gap. In addition to autologous nerve grafting as the conventional neurosurgical treatment to overcome long gaps, alternative strategies are needed. Numerous experimental studies have been undertaken to find the optimal material for production of artificial prostheses, which can be introduced as conduits between the nerve stumps. The current study follows the aim to establish polysialic acid (polySia), a homopolymer of alpha2,8-linked sialic acid residues, as a novel, biocompatible, and bioresorbable material for nerve tissue engineering. As a first step towards this goal, protocols for efficient coating of cell culture dishes with soluble polySia were established. In addition, primary nerve cells which are candidates for reconstructive therapies, including neonatal and adult Schwann cells, neural progenitor cells, spinal ganglionic neurons and motoneurons were cultured on polySia substrates. Cultures were evaluated with regard to cell survival and cell proliferation capacities. polySia turned out to be stable under cell culture conditions, and induced degradable and degradation products had no negative effects on cell cultures. Furthermore, polySia revealed its compatibility for several cell types derived from rat embryonic, postnatal and adult nervous tissue when used as a substrate.
Inhibition of in vitro chondrogenesis in RGD-modified three-dimensional alginate gels.	The goal of this study was to investigate the effects of adhesion to the arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) sequence on the chondrogenesis of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Synthetic RGE- and RGD-containing peptides were conjugated to sodium alginate, and bovine BMSCs were seeded onto 2D alginate surfaces or encapsulated in 3D gels. BMSCs spread specifically on RGD-modified surfaces, and spreading was inhibited by a soluble RGD peptide and by anti-beta1 and anti-alpha(v)beta3 integrin blocking antibodies. After 7 days in 3D gel culture, the chondrogenic supplements (TGF-beta1 and dexamethasone) significantly stimulated chondrocytic gene expression (collagen II, aggrecan, and Sox-9) and matrix accumulation (collagen II and sGAG) in RGE-modified gels, but this response was inhibited in the RGD-modified gels. Inhibition of sGAG synthesis increased with increasing RGD density, and synthesis was partially rescued by adding a soluble RGD peptide. Addition of an anti-alpha(v)beta3 integrin blocking antibody had no effect on chondrogenesis, while an anti-alpha5 antibody reduced sGAG accumulation. Overall, this study demonstrates that interaction with the RGD motif significantly inhibits the initial chondrogenesis of BMSCs within 3D alginate gels. These results provide new insights into the role of cell-matrix interactions in regulating chondrogenesis and highlight the importance of choosing appropriate biomaterials for tissue engineering therapies.
Effects of sterilisation method on surface topography and in-vitro cell behaviour of electrostatically spun scaffolds.	Electrostatic spinning is a potentially significant technique for scaffold production within the field of tissue engineering; however, the effect of sterilisation upon these structures is not known. This research investigated the extent of any topographical alteration to electrostatically spun scaffolds post-production through sterilisation, and examined any subsequent effect on contacting cells. Scaffolds made from Tecoflex SG-80A polyurethane were sterilised using ethylene oxide and UV-ozone. Scaffold topography was characterized in terms of inter-fibre separation (ifs), fibre diameter (f.dia) and surface roughness. Cell culture was performed over 7 days with both mouse L929 and human embryonic lung fibroblasts, the results of which were assessed using SEM, image analysis and confocal microscopy. Sterilisation by UV-ozone and ethylene oxide decreased ifs and increased f.dia; surface roughness was decreased by UV-ozone but increased by ethylene oxide. Possible mechanisms to explain these observations are discussed, namely photo-oxidative degradation in the case of UV-ozone and process-induced changes in surface roughness. UV-ozone sterilised scaffolds showed greater cell coverage than those treated with ethylene oxide, but lower coverage than all the controls. Changes in cell attachment and morphology were thought to be due to the changes in topography brought about by the sterilisation process. We conclude that surface modification by sterilisation could prove to be a useful tool at the final stage of scaffold production to enhance cell contact, phenotype or function.
Engineered blood and lymphatic capillaries in 3-D VEGF-fibrin-collagen matrices with interstitial flow.	In vitro endothelial cell organization into capillaries is a long standing challenge of tissue engineering. We recently showed the utility of low level interstitial flow in guiding the organization of endothelial cells through a 3-D fibrin matrix-containing covalently bound vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Here this synergistic phenomenon was extended to explore the effects of matrix composition on in vitro capillary morphogenesis of human blood versus lymphatic endothelial cells (BECs and LECs). Different mixtures of fibrin and collagen were used in conjunction with constant concentrations of matrix-bound VEGF and slow interstitial flow over 10 days. Interestingly, the BECs and LECs each showed a distinct preference in terms of organization for matrix composition: LECs organized the most extensively in a fibrin-only matrix, while BEC organization was optimized in the compliant collagen-containing matrices. Furthermore, the BECs and LECs produced architecturally different structures; while BECs organized in thick, branched networks containing wide lumen, the LECs were elongated into slender, overlapping networks with fine lumen. These data demonstrate the importance of the 3-D matrix composition in facilitating and coordinating BEC and LEC capillary morphogenesis, which is important for in vitro vascularization of engineered tissues.
FT-IR imaging of native and tissue-engineered bone and cartilage.	Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) imaging and microspectroscopy have been extensively applied to the analyses of tissues in health and disease. Spatially resolved mid-IR data has provided insights into molecular changes that occur in diseases of connective or collagen-based tissues, including, osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteopetrosis and pathologic calcifications. These techniques have also been used to probe chemical changes associated with load, disuse, and micro-damage in bone, and with degradation and repair in cartilage. This review summarizes the applications of FT-IR microscopy and imaging for analyses of bone and cartilage in healthy and diseased tissues, and illustrates the application of these techniques for the characterization of tissue-engineered bone and cartilage.
Gastrointestinal tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering is an emerging discipline that combines engineering principles and the biological sciences toward the development of functional replacement tissue. Virtually every tissue in the body has been investigated and tremendous advances have been made in many areas. This article focuses on the gastrointestinal tract and reviews the current status of bioengineering gastrointestinal tissues, including the esophagus, stomach, small intestine and colon. Although progress has been achieved, there continues to be significant challenges that need to be addressed.
Effects of collagen nerve guide on neuroma formation and neuropathic pain in a rat model.	Posttraumatic neuroma formation is a major cause of neuropathic pain that can occur after elective surgery, amputation, or trauma. This study examined the use of biosynthetic collagen nerve guides to prevent the development of posttraumatic neuromas.
Effective bone engineering with periosteum-derived cells.	Bone augmentation via tissue engineering has generated significant interest. We hypothesized that periosteum-derived cells could be used in place of bone marrow stromal cells (which are widely used) in bone engineering, but the differences in osteogenic potential between these 2 cell types are unclear. Here, we compared the osteogenic potential of these cells, and investigated the optimal osteoinductive conditions for periosteum-derived cells. Both cell types were induced, via bFGF and BMP-2, to differentiate into osteoblasts. Periosteal cells proliferated faster than marrow stromal cells, and osteogenic markers indicated that bone marrow stromal cells were more osteogenic than periosteal cells. However, pre-treatment with bFGF made periosteal cells more sensitive to BMP-2 and more osteogenic. Transplants of periosteal cells treated with BMP-2 after pre-treatment with bFGF formed more new bone than did marrow stromal cells. Analysis of these data suggests that combined treatment with bFGF and BMP-2 can make periosteum a highly useful source of bone regeneration.
Biopreservation of cells and engineered tissues.	The development of effective preservation and long-term storage techniques is a critical requirement for the successful clinical and commercial application of emerging cell-based technologies. Biopreservation is the process of preserving the integrity and functionality of cells, tissues and organs held outside the native environment for extended storage times. Biopreservation can be categorized into four different areas on the basis of the techniques used to achieve biological stability and to ensure a viable state following long-term storage. These include in vitro culture, hypothermic storage, cryopreservation and desiccation. In this chapter, an overview of these four techniques is presented with an emphasis on the recent developments that have been made using these technologies for the biopreservation of cells and engineered tissues.
Engineering skin to study human disease--tissue models for cancer biology and wound repair.	Recent advances in the engineering of three-dimensional tissues known as skin equivalents, that have morphologic and phenotypic properties of human skin, have provided new ways to study human disease processes. This chapter will supply an overview of two such applications--investigations of the incipient development of squamous cell cancer, and studies that have characterized the response of human epithelium during wound repair. Using these novel tools to study cancer biology, it has been shown that cell-cell interactions inherent in three-dimensional tissue architecture can suppress early cancer progression by inducing a state of intraepithelial dormancy. This dormant state can be overcome and cancer progression enabled by altering tissue organization in response to tumor promoters or UV irradiation or by modifying the interaction of tumor cells with extracellular matrix proteins or their adjacent epithelia. By adapting skin equivalent models of human skin to study wound reepithelialization, it has been shown that several key responses, including cell proliferation, migration, differentiation, growth-factor responsiveness and protease expression, will mimic the response seen in human skin. In this light, these engineered models of human skin provide powerful new tools for studying disease processes in these tissues as they occur in humans.
Nanostructured biomaterials for tissue engineering bone.	Advances in several critical research fields (processing, catalytic, optical, actuation, electrical, mechanical, etc.) have started to benefit from nanotechnology. Nano-technology can be broadly defined as the use of materials and systems whose structures and components exhibit novel and significantly changed properties when control is gained at the atomic, molecular, and supramolecular levels. Specifically, such advances have been found for materials when particulate size is decreased to below 100 nm. However, to date, relatively few advantages have been described for biological applications (specifically, those involving bone tissue engineering). This chapter elucidates several promising examples of how nanophase materials can be used to improve orthopedic implant applications. These include mechanical advantages as well as altered cell functions, leading to increased bone tissue regeneration on a wide range of nanophase materials including ceramics, polymers, metals, and composites thereof. Such advances were previously unimaginable with conventional materials possessing large micron-sized particulates.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to determine the safety and efficacy of cultured and expanded autologous fibroblast injections for the treatment of interdental papillary insufficiency associated with the papilla priming procedure.	The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of using autologous fibroblast injections following a minimally invasive papilla priming procedure to augment open interproximal spaces.
The future prospects of microbial cellulose in biomedical applications.	Microbial cellulose has proven to be a remarkably versatile biomaterial and can be used in wide variety of applied scientific endeavors, such as paper products, electronics, acoustics, and biomedical devices. In fact, biomedical devices recently have gained a significant amount of attention because of an increased interest in tissue-engineered products for both wound care and the regeneration of damaged or diseased organs. Due to its unique nanostructure and properties, microbial cellulose is a natural candidate for numerous medical and tissue-engineered applications. For example, a microbial cellulose membrane has been successfully used as a wound-healing device for severely damaged skin and as a small-diameter blood vessel replacement. The nonwoven ribbons of microbial cellulose microfibrils closely resemble the structure of native extracellular matrices, suggesting that it could function as a scaffold for the production of many tissue-engineered constructs. In addition, microbial cellulose membranes, having a unique nanostructure, could have many other uses in wound healing and regenerative medicine, such as guided tissue regeneration (GTR), periodontal treatments, or as a replacement for dura mater (a membrane that surrounds brain tissue). In effect, microbial cellulose could function as a scaffold material for the regeneration of a wide variety of tissues, showing that it could eventually become an excellent platform technology for medicine. If microbial cellulose can be successfully mass produced, it will eventually become a vital biomaterial and will be used in the creation of a wide variety of medical devices and consumer products.
Synthetic biomimetic hydrogels incorporated with ephrin-A1 for therapeutic angiogenesis.	Eph receptors and ephrin ligands are essential for vascular development and angiogenic remodeling. In this work, we developed biomimetic poly(ethylene glycol)-diacrylate hydrogels incorporated with ephrin-A1 and examined their angiogenic properties. Ephrin-A1 was covalently immobilized on the surface of hydrogels by chemical modification and photopolymerization. Ephrin-A1 immobilized on hydrogels was found to retain its capacity to stimulate endothelial cell adhesion in a dose-dependent manner as similar findings were observed on polystyrene culture wells pre-adsorbed with ephrin-A1. Cell adhesion stimulated by ephrin-A1 was abolished by treatment with soluble RGDS and anti-alpha(v)beta3 integrin but not anti-alpha(v)beta5 integrin antibodies, suggesting that ephrin-A1 activates cell adhesion through alpha(v)beta3 integrins. Also, surface immobilized ephrin-A1 was found to induce endothelial tubule formation with luminal diameters ranging 5-30 microm on hydrogels. The results of these studies demonstrate that pro-angiogenic properties of ephrin-A1 are preserved in hydrogels and suggest potential applications of this hydrogel system in regenerative medicine and tissue engineering.
Development of self-assembled, tissue-engineered ligament from bone marrow stromal cells.	The human anterior cruciate ligament is ruptured 200,000 times per year in the United States, resulting in medical costs of $1 billion. The standard treatment is patellar tendon autograft, but this treatment is suboptimal because of lengthy recovery time, arthritis, donor site morbidity, and degenerative joint disease. This study aimed to engineer scaffold-free ligament analogs from a clinically relevant cell source and to examine mechanical and histological properties of the resulting engineered tissue. Porcine bone marrow stromal cells were seeded on laminin-coated substrates with silk suture segments as anchor points. Cells developed into monolayers that subsequently delaminated and self-organized into cohesive rod-like tissues that were held in tension above the substrate. After 14 days of maturation, scanning electron microscopy revealed a well-organized extracellular matrix, aligned collagen fibers, and a collagen fibril diameter of 51.1+/-77 nm. Histological evaluation showed that constructs were composed of approximately 60% collagen. During tensile tests to failure, constructs had a stress of 2.11 +/- 0.13 MPa, a strain of 28.8 +/- 0.95%, a force of 0.26 +/- 0.02 N, and a tangent modulus of 15.4+/-1.04 MPa. Mechanically and histologically, engineered ligament resembled native embryonic connective tissue and had an ultimate stress approximately 15% of native adult mouse tissue.
Comparison of hydrogels in the in vivo formation of tissue-engineered bone using mesenchymal stem cells and beta-tricalcium phosphate.	Availability of grafts and morbidity at the donor site limit autologous transplantation in patients requiring bone reconstruction. A tissue-engineering approach can overcome these limitations by producing bone-like tissue of custom shape and size from isolated cells. Several hydrogels facilitate osteogenesis on porous scaffolds; however, the relative suitability of various hydrogels has not been rigorously assessed. Fibrin glue, alginate, and collagen I hydrogels were mixed with swine bone marrow-derived differentiated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), applied to 3-dimensionally printed porous beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP) scaffolds and implanted subcutaneously in nude mice. Although noninvasive assessment of osteogenesis in 3 dimensions is desirable for monitoring new bone formation in vivo, correlations with traditional histological and mechanical testing need to be established. High-resolution volumetric computed tomography (VCT) scanning, histological examination, biomechanical compression testing, and osteonectin (ON) expression were performed on excised scaffolds after 1, 2, 4, and 6 weeks of subcutaneous implantation in mice. Statistical correlation analyses were performed between radiological density, stiffness, and ON expression. Use of collagen I as a hydrogel carrier produced superior bone formation at 6 weeks, as demonstrated using VCT scanning with densities similar to native bone and the highest compression values. Continued contribution of the seeded MSCs was demonstrated using swine-specific messenger ribonucleic acid probes. Radiological density values correlated closely with the results of histological and biomechanical testing and ON expression. High-resolution VCT is a promising method for monitoring osteogenesis.
Small-diameter porous poly (epsilon-caprolactone) films enhance adhesion and growth of human cultured epidermal keratinocyte and dermal fibroblast cells.	Autologous keratinocyte grafts provide clinical benefit by rapidly covering wounded areas, but they are fragile. We therefore developed biocompatible hexagonal-packed porous films with uniform, circular pore sizes to support human keratinocytes and fibroblasts. Cells were cultured on these porous poly (epsilon-calprolactone) films with pore sizes ranging from novel ultra-small 3 microm to 20 microm. These were compared with flat (pore-less) films. Cell growth rates, adhesion, migration, and ultrastructural morphology were examined. Human keratinocytes and fibroblasts attached to all films. Furthermore, small-pore (3-5 microm) films showed the highest levels of cell adhesion and survival and prevented migration into the pores and opposing film surface. Keratinocyte migration over small-pore film surface was inhibited. Keratinocytes optimally attached to 3-microm-pore films due to a combination of greater pore numbers (porosity), a greater circumference of the pore edge per unit surface area, and greater frequency of flat surface areas for attachment, allowing better cell-substrate and cell-cell attachment and growth. The 3-microm pore size allowed cell-cell communication, together with diffusion of soluble nutrients and factors from the culture medium or wound substrate. These characteristics are considered important in developing grafts for use in the treatment of human skin wounds.
Bone modeling adaptation as a method for promoting development of bone tissue engineered construct in vitro.	It was widely accepted that bone adjusts its mass and structure to altered external mechanical environment. In the modeling process, in vivo bone increases bone formation in order to adapt to overload strains. Therefore the bone modeling adaptation as a method may be applied to promote the development of bone tissue engineered construct in vitro. External mechanical force subjected on cell-seeded scaffolds during culture produces overload zone strains in construct, which activates bone cells differentiation and/or extracellular matrix deposition, and promotes bone formation on the interior surface of scaffolds. The mechanical environment enhances the development of bone tissue engineered construct, which recreates the process of bone modeling. Though the overload strains will be restore to the adaptation zone strains due to modeling adaptation, the overload strains made by increasing the amount of external force step by step always remain the bone-forming state of construct. The development of construct will be in progress to accommodate to the new mechanical environment until the bone-like construct is obtained. The method may not only accomplish the bone formation on the base of template (scaffold), but also optimize the mechanical properties of new formation, and finally may produce the off-the-shelf, bone-like substitutes.
Urethral replacement using epidermal cell-seeded tubular acellular bladder collagen matrix.	To investigate the feasibility of replacing urinary epithelium cells with foreskin epidermal cells to reconstruct engineered anterior urethra with an acellular collagen matrix.
In vitro cartilage tissue formation by Co-culture of primary and passaged chondrocytes.	Passaging chondrocytes to increase cell number is one way to overcome the major limitation to cartilage tissue engineering, which is obtaining sufficient numbers of chondrocytes to form large amounts of tissue. Because neighboring cells can influence cell phenotype and because passaging induces dedifferentiation, we examined whether coculture of primary and passaged bovine articular chondrocytes in 3-dimensional culture would form cartilage tissue in vitro. Chondrocytes passaged in monolayer culture up to 4 times were mixed with primary (nonpassaged) chondrocytes (5-40% of total cell number) and grown on filter inserts for up to 4 weeks. Passaged cells alone did not form cartilage, but with the addition of increasing numbers of primary chondrocytes, up to 20%, there was an increase in cartilage tissue formation as determined histologically and biochemically and demonstrated by increasing proteoglycan and collagen accumulation. The passaged cells appeared to be undergoing redifferentiation, as indicated by up-regulation of aggrecan, type II collagen, and SOX9 gene expression and decreased type I collagen expression. This switch in collagen type was confirmed using Western blots. Confocal microscopy showed that fluorescently labeled primary cells were distributed throughout the tissue. This coculture approach could provide a new way to solve the problem of limited cell number for cartilage tissue engineering.
Noninvasive image analysis of 3D construct mineralization in a perfusion bioreactor.	Although the beneficial effects of perfusion on cell-mediated mineralization have been demonstrated in several studies, the size of the mineralized constructs produced has been limited. The ability to quantify mineralized matrix formation non-invasively within 3D constructs would benefit efforts to optimize bioreactor conditions for scaling-up constructs to clinically relevant dimensions. In this study, we report a micro-CT imaging-based technique to monitor 3D mineralization over time in a perfusion bioreactor and specifically assess mechanisms of construct mineralization by quantifying the number, size, and distribution of mineralized particle formation within constructs varying in thickness from 3 to 9 mm. As expected, mineralized matrix volume and particle number increased with construct thickness. Analyzing multiple concentric volumes inside each construct indicated that a greater proportion of the mineral volume was found within the interior of the perfused constructs. Interestingly, intermediate-sized 6mm thick constructs were found to have the highest core mineral volume fraction and the largest mineralized particles. Two complementary mechanisms of increasing total mineral volume were observed in the 6 and 9 mm constructs: increasing particle size and increasing the number of mineralized particles, respectively. The rate of mineralized matrix formation in the perfused constructs increased from 0.69 mm(3)/week during the first 3 weeks of culture to 1.03 mm(3)/week over the final 2 weeks. In contrast, the rate of mineral deposition in the static controls was 0.01 mm(3)/week during the first 3 weeks of culture and 0.16 mm(3)/week from week 3 to week 5. The ability to monitor overall construct mineralization non-invasively coupled with quantitative analysis of mineralized particle size, number, and distribution offers a powerful tool for elucidating how mineral growth mechanisms are affected by cell type, scaffold material and architecture, or bioreactor flow conditions.
Nondestructive micro-computed tomography for biological imaging and quantification of scaffold-bone interaction in vivo.	Scaffolds, also called bioscaffolds, are needed in all tissue engineering applications as carriers for cells and biochemical factors, as constructs providing appropriate mechanical conditions, or as a combination of the two. The aim of this paper is to present recent developments in micro-computed tomography (microCT) analyses of scaffolds. The focus will be on imaging and quantification aspects in bone research, and will deal with the assessment of scaffold architecture and how it interacts with bone tissue. We show that micro-architectural imaging is a nondestructive and noninvasive procedure that allows a precise three-dimensional (3D) measurement of scaffold architecture. Direct microCT-based image analysis allows to accurately quantify scaffold porosity, surface area, and 3D measures such as pore size, pore distribution, and strut thickness; furthermore, it allows for a precise measurement of bone growth into the scaffold and onto its surface. This methodology is useful for quality control of scaffold fabrication processes, to assess scaffold degradation kinetics, and to assess bone tissue response. Even more so, in combination with bioreactors or in vivo animal models, microCT allows to qualitatively and quantitatively assess the spatial and temporal mineralization of bone tissue formation in scaffolds; such longitudinal studies improve the assessment of bone response due to scaffold architecture. Computational models will be helpful in further analyses of these data in order to improve our understanding of mechanical and biochemical stimuli on bone formation, and are likely to provide valuable knowledge to optimize scaffold design.
Microenvironment regulation of PRG4 phenotype of chondrocytes.	Articular cartilage is a heterogeneous tissue with superficial (S), middle (M), and deep (D) zones. Chondrocytes in the S zone secrete the lubricating PRG4 protein, while chondrocytes from the M and D zones are more specialized in producing large amounts of the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) component of the extracellular matrix. Soluble and insoluble chemicals and mechanical stimuli regulate cartilage development, growth, and homeostasis; however, the mechanisms of regulation responsible for the distinct PRG4-positive and negative phenotypes of chondrocytes are unknown. The objective of this study was to determine if interaction between S and M chondrocytes regulates chondrocyte phenotype, as determined by coculture in monolayer at different ratios of S:M (100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, 0:100) and at different densities (240,000, 120,000, 60,000, and 30,000 cells/cm(2)), and by measurement of PRG4 secretion and expression, and GAG accumulation. Coculture of S and M cells resulted in significant up-regulation in PRG4 secretion and the percentage of cells expressing PRG4, with simultaneous down-regulation of GAG accumulation. Tracking M cells with PKH67 dye in coculture revealed that they maintained a PRG4-negative phenotype, and proliferated less than S cells. Taken together, these results indicate that the up-regulated PRG4 expression in coculture is a result of preferential proliferation of PRG4-expressing S cells. This finding may have practical implications for generating a large number of phenotypically normal S cells, which can be limited in source, for tissue engineering applications.
Gelatin-based microcarriers as embryonic stem cell delivery system in bone tissue engineering: an in-vitro study.	Mouse embryonic stem cells were cultured on commercially available biodegradable macroporous microcarriers. A culture period of 1-2 weeks was needed to colonize the microcarriers. Embryonic stem cells retained their pluripotency for up to 14 days when cultured in medium supplemented with leukemia inhibitory factor. Replacing this medium by differentiation medium for 2 weeks initiated osteogenic differentiation. Encapsulation of the cell-loaded microcarriers in photopolymerizable polymers (methacrylate-endcapped poly-D,L-lactide-co-caprolactone), triacetin/hydroxyethylmethacrylate (HEMA) as solvent and with/without gelatin as porogen, resulted in a homogeneous distribution of the microcarriers in the polymer. As observed by transmission electron microscopy, viability of the cells was optimal when gelatin was omitted and when using triacetin instead of HEMA.
Controlling cartilaginous matrix evolution in hydrogels with degradation triggered by exogenous addition of an enzyme.	Crosslinked hydrogels provide an accommodating environment for cartilage regeneration. However, degradation of the crosslinked network is necessary to create gels with an initially desirable mechanical stiffness and long-term distribution of properly assembled matrix molecules. In this study, chondrocytes were encapsulated in crosslinked poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels with caprolactone blocks that enabled an exogenously controlled, enzymatic degradation mechanism. At different stages of in vitro culture, a lipase enzyme was added to culture media to trigger degradation of the gel network. In gel constructs that never received lipase, the large cartilage matrix molecule, type II collagen, was localized to the pericellular region. Constructs that received lipase in the media for at least 1 week degraded enough to allow some distribution of collagen, but the timing and duration of lipase administration affected the outcome of regenerated tissue after 8 weeks of in vitro culture. Degradation that was triggered too early resulted in more significant defects in the cartilaginous matrix. The hydrogels applied in this study allow explicit control over degradation, and therefore provide a useful tool for investigating the effects of specific mass loss profiles on the evolution of neocartilage in vitro.
Human amniotic membrane as a delivery matrix for articular cartilage repair.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of human amniotic membrane (HAM) as a chondrocyte carrier by assessing cell proliferation and maintenance of phenotype in vitro and cartilage regeneration in vivo. Intact HAM was treated with 0.1% trypsin-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) for 15 min and the epithelial cells removed to make a denuded HAM. Rabbit articular chondrocytes were then seeded on three different HAM substrates: the epithelial side of intact HAM (IHE), basement side of denuded HAM (DHB), and stromal side of denuded HAM (DHS). These cell-substrate specimens were cultured for up to 4 weeks, and cell proliferation rate and phenotypic stability were examined at weeks 1 and 4. While chondrocytes grew in monolayer fashion on the surface of IHE and DHB substrates, the cells seeded in DHS penetrated and spread into the whole thickness of the stromal layer. The proliferating activity of chondrocytes in DHB was continuously up-regulated. A similar proliferating activity was observed in DHS in the first week, which remained stable for up to 4 weeks. The expression of type II collagen gradually increased with time in the DHS group, while it gradually decreased in the DHB group or was not detected at all in the IHE group. These results suggested that denuded HAM was able to support chondrocyte proliferation and maintenance of phenotype in vitro, seemingly more favorable when DHS was used. Based on this data, the DHS with chondrocytes was used to cover rabbit osteochondral defect with the stromal side facing in. The defect area was successfully regenerated with hyaline cartilage in the Safranin-O stain and International Cartilage Repair Society (ICRS) scoring after 8 weeks of implantation. In conclusion, our findings suggest that denuded HAM could be one of the ideal cell carrier matrices for cartilage regeneration.
Bulk and interface investigations of scaffolds and tissue-engineered bones by X-ray microtomography and X-ray microdiffraction.	This review is presented of recent investigations concerning the structure of ceramic scaffolds and tissue-engineered bones and focused on two techniques based on X-ray radiation, namely microtomography (microCT) and microdiffraction. Bulk 3D information, with micro-resolution, is mainly obtained by microCT, whereas microdiffraction provides useful information on interfaces to the atomic scale, i.e. of the order of the nanometer. Since most of the reported results were obtained using synchrotron radiation, a brief description of the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) is presented, followed by a description of the two techniques. Then examples of microstructural investigations of scaffolds are reported together with studies on bone architecture. Finally, studies on ex vivo tissue-engineered bone and on bone microstructure in vivo are presented.
Embryonic stem cells remain highly pluripotent following long term expansion as aggregates in suspension bioreactors.	Increasing attention has been drawn towards pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and their potential use as the primary material in various tissue engineering applications. Successful clinical implementation of this technology would require a quality controlled reproducible culture system for the expansion of the cells to be used in the generation of functional tissues. Recently, we showed that suspension bioreactors could be used in the regulated large-scale expansion of highly pluripotent murine ESCs. The current study illustrates that these bioreactor protocols can be adapted for long term culture and that murine ESC cultures remain highly undifferentiated, when serially passaged in suspension bioreactors for extended periods. Flow cytometry analysis and gene expression profiles of several pluripotency markers, in addition to colony and embryoid body (EB) formation tests were conducted at the start and end of the experiment and all showed that the ESC cultures remained highly undifferentiated over extended culture time in suspension. In vivo teratoma formation and in vitro differentiation into neural, cardiomyocyte, osteoblast and chondrocyte lineages, performed at the end of the long term culture, further supported the presence of functional and undifferentiated ESCs in the expanded population. Overall, this system enables the controlled expansion of highly pluripotent murine ESC populations.
Aging Schwann cells in vitro.	Schwann cells (SCs) can support the regeneration of lesioned fiber tracts of the peripheral and central nervous system and have been transplanted alone or in combination with synthetic nerve guides. For neuronal tissue engineering purposes, the cells must be isolated from small biopsies and expanded in vitro. In this study we analyze the impact of cell expansion on 9 different cell parameters, comparing short- and long-term cultured rat SCs, which we refer to as 'young' and 'old' or 'aged' cells, respectively. In comparison to young SCs, old SCs doubled the axonal outgrowth from dorsal root ganglion explants and displayed only one-third as much adhesion to the gray and white matter of spinal cord cryosections. In a 3-dimensional extracellular matrix the two cell populations showed very different cellular responses with regard to cell morphology and cell-cell adhesion. Cell proliferation of old SCs was independent of serum components and was not hampered by contact inhibition. In addition, population doubling times were reduced by a factor of almost three compared to those of young SCs. Despite considerable karyotype changes, with an average of 68.7 chromosomes versus 42 in native rat cells, old SCs did not show any increase in telomerase activity and loss of anchorage dependence--characteristics that are typical of tumor cells. The data also provide biological insights into which cell characteristics (proliferation and adhesion, for example) are functionally clustered and either change or remain constant with aging in vitro. Though the data indicate a lack of tumorigenic transformation coupled with increased neurite outgrowth-promoting activity after extensive SC expansion in vitro, thus suggesting better regeneration qualities, we strongly recommend that in vitro aged rat SCs (>11 passages) should not be employed for tissue engineering.
Collagen scaffolds for nonviral IGF-1 gene delivery in articular cartilage tissue engineering.	This study investigated the use of a type II collagen-glycosaminoglycan (CG) scaffold as a nonviral gene delivery vehicle for facilitating gene transfer to seeded adult articular chondrocytes to produce an elevated, prolonged and local expression of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 for enhancing cartilage regeneration. Gene-supplemented CG (GSCG) scaffolds were synthesized by two methods: (1) soaking a pre-cross-linked CG scaffold in a plasmid solution followed by a freeze-drying process, and (2) chemically cross-linking the plasmid DNA to the scaffold. Two different plasmid solutions were also compared: (1) naked plasmid IGF-1 alone, and (2) plasmid IGF-1 with a lipid transfection reagent. Plasmid release studies revealed that cross-linking the plasmid to the CG scaffold prevented passive bolus release of plasmid and resulted in vector release controlled by scaffold degradation. In chondrocyte-seeded GSCG scaffolds, prolonged and elevated IGF-1 expression was enhanced by using the cross-linking method of plasmid incorporation along with the addition of the transfection reagent. The sustained level of IGF-1 overexpression resulted in significantly higher amounts of tissue formation, chondrocyte-like cells, GAG accumulation, and type II collagen production, compared to control scaffolds. These findings demonstrate that CG scaffolds can serve as nonviral gene delivery vehicles of microgram amounts of IGF-1 plasmid (<10 microg per scaffold) to provide a locally sustained therapeutic level of overexpressed IGF-1, resulting in enhanced cartilage formation.
Titania and titania-silica coatings for titanium: comparison of ectopic bone formation within cell-seeded scaffolds.	The aim of this study was to compare titania (TiO(2))-coated, titania-silica (TiSi)-coated, and uncoated (cpTi) titanium fiber meshes as scaffolds for bone engineering. The scaffolds were loaded with bone marrow stromal cells and implanted subcutaneously in rats. Ectopic bone formation after 1, 4, and 12 weeks of implantation was evaluated using histology and histomorphometry. After 1 week of implantation, multiple patches of unorganized mineralizing tissue were seen in all implants. The amount of this bone-like tissue clearly increased from 1 to 4 weeks. Bone apposition occurred in direct contact with coated meshes, while a thin layer of unmineralized fibrous tissue was often observed surrounding cpTi mesh fibers. After 12 weeks, the structure of bone, with bone marrow-like tissue, was further matured and mesh fibers were embedded in lamellar bone. No statistical differences in the amount of mineralized bone were observed between scaffold types at any point of time. Only TiSi scaffolds showed further increase in bone area from 4 to 12 weeks (p < 0.01). A notable difference was that the sol-gel coatings resulted in enhanced initial bone contact and distribution of bone tissue, whereas uncoated implants showed bone formation mainly in the center of the scaffolds. In conclusion, TiO(2)-based sol-gel coatings may be used in tissue engineering to gain more uniform distribution of bone throughout titanium fiber mesh scaffolds.
Reconstruction of living bilayer human skin equivalent utilizing human fibrin as a scaffold.	Our aim of this study was to develop a new methodology for constructing a bilayer human skin equivalent to create a more clinical compliance skin graft composite for the treatment of various skin defects. We utilized human plasma derived fibrin as the scaffold for the development of a living bilayer human skin equivalent: fibrin-fibroblast and fibrin-keratinocyte (B-FF/FK SE). Skin cells from six consented patients were culture-expanded to passage 1. For B-FF/FK SE formation, human fibroblasts were embedded in human fibrin matrix and subsequently another layer of human keratinocytes in human fibrin matrix was stacked on top. The B-FF/FK SE was then transplanted to athymic mice model for 4 weeks to evaluate its regeneration and clinical performance. The in vivo B-FF/FK SE has similar properties as native human skin by histological analysis and expression of basal Keratin 14 gene in the epidermal layer and Collagen type I gene in the dermal layer. Electron microscopy analysis of in vivo B-FF/FK SE showed well-formed and continuous epidermal-dermal junction. We have successfully developed a technique to engineer living bilayer human skin equivalent using human fibrin matrix. The utilization of culture-expanded human skin cells and fibrin matrix from human blood will allow a fully autologous human skin equivalent construction.
Evaluation of electrospun PCL/gelatin nanofibrous scaffold for wound healing and layered dermal reconstitution.	The current design requirement for a tissue engineering skin substitute is that of a biodegradable scaffold through which fibroblasts can migrate and populate. This artificial "dermal layer" needs to adhere to and integrate with the wound, which is not always successful for the current artificial dermal analogues available. The high cost of these artificial dermal analogues also makes their application prohibitive both to surgeons and patients. We propose a cost-effective composite consisting of a nanofibrous scaffold directly electrospun onto a polyurethane dressing (Tegaderm, 3M Medical) - which we call the Tegaderm-nanofiber (TG-NF) construct - for dermal wound healing. Cell culture is performed on both sides of the nanofibrous scaffold and tested for fibroblast adhesion and proliferation. It is hoped that these studies will result in a fibroblast-populated three-dimensional dermal analogue that is feasible for layered applications to build up thickness of dermis prior to re-epithelialization. Results obtained in this study suggest that both the TG-NF construct and dual-sided fibroblast-populated nanofiber construct achieved significant cell adhesion, growth and proliferation. This is a successful first step for the nanofiber construct in establishing itself as a suitable three-dimensional scaffold for autogenous fibroblast populations, and providing great potential in the treatment of dermal wounds through layered application.
Enhancing cell seeding of scaffolds in tissue engineering through manipulation of hydrodynamic parameters.	The seeding of cells onto biocompatible scaffolds is a determinant step in the attainment of functional properties of engineered tissues. Efficient, fast and spatially uniform cell seeding can improve the clinical potential of engineered tissue templates. One way to approach these cell seeding requirements is through bioreactor design. In the present study, bovine chondrocytes were seeded (2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 million cells per scaffold) onto polyglycolic acid scaffolds within the hydrodynamic environments of wavy-walled and spinner flask bioreactors. Previous characterizations of the hydrodynamic environment in the vicinity of constructs cultivated in these bioreactors suggested decreased flow-induced shear stress as well as increased recirculation and magnitude of the axial fluid velocities in the wavy-walled bioreactor. Here we report more efficient and spatially uniform cell seeding in the wavy-walled bioreactor, and at intermediate initial cell densities (5 million cells per scaffold). This study constitutes an important step towards the achievement of functional tissue-engineered implants by (i) increasing our understanding of the influence of hydrodynamic parameters on the efficiency and spatial distribution of cell attachment to scaffolds and the production of extracellular matrix and (ii) introducing a comprehensive approach to the investigation of the effects of bioprocessing conditions on tissue morphology and composition.
Stem cell strategies in burns care.	The prospect of being able to replace damaged tissue by the process of regeneration would dramatically and irrevocably change the impact, management and outcome of burns. The current understanding of stem cell-based modulation and therapy together with their potential developments do bring this prospect ever closer to a clinical reality. This paper gives a background to stem cell strategies in burns care and identifies actual or prospective applications which, collectively, will forever change burns care throughout the world.
Use of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells for ex vivo cartilage regeneration]	Articular cartilage disorders and injuries often result in lifelong chronic pain and compromised quality of life. When it comes to local articular cartilage defects, modern medicine is limited to short-term pain relief and inflammation control. In extreme cases the affected tissue is surgically removed and replaced by a synthetic prosthesis of limited durability. Cell-based therapies to regenerate articular cartilage have been in use since 1994. Such therapies provide a healthy population of cells to the injured site and require differentiated chondrocytes from the uninjured site as base material. Their usage often leads to donor site morbidity and they generate rigid fibrous cartilage where more flexible hyaline cartilage is required. The major restrictive factors for such methods are inadequate number and limited proliferation capacity of chondrocytes in vitro. Tissue engineering of adult marrow stromal cells/mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with their almost unlimited proliferation potential and proven capability to differentiate into chondrocytes for ex vivo generation of cartilage tissue still remains a vision. For optimal harnessing of MSCs as chondroprogenitor cells, basic background information regarding commitment to the lineage, cartilage differentiation and the regulatory factors and molecules involved is essential.
Assessment of bone ingrowth into porous biomaterials using MICRO-CT.	The three-dimensional (3D) structure and architecture of biomaterial scaffolds play a critical role in bone formation as they affect the functionality of the tissue-engineered constructs. Assessment techniques for scaffold design and their efficacy in bone ingrowth studies require an ability to accurately quantify the 3D structure of the scaffold and an ability to visualize the bone regenerative processes within the scaffold structure. In this paper, a 3D micro-CT imaging and analysis study of bone ingrowth into tissue-engineered scaffold materials is described. Seven specimens are studied in this paper; a set of three specimens with a cellular structure, varying pore size and implant material, and a set of four scaffolds with two different scaffold designs investigated at early (4 weeks) and late (12 weeks) explantation times. The difficulty in accurately phase separating the multiple phases within a scaffold undergoing bone regeneration is first highlighted. A sophisticated three-phase segmentation approach is implemented to develop high-quality phase separation with minimal artifacts. A number of structural characteristics and bone ingrowth characteristics of the scaffolds are quantitatively measured on the phase separated images. Porosity, pore size distributions, pore constriction sizes, and pore topology are measured on the original pore phase of the scaffold volumes. The distribution of bone ingrowth into the scaffold pore volume is also measured. For early explanted specimens we observe that bone ingrowth occurs primarily at the periphery of the scaffold with a constant decrease in bone mineralization into the scaffold volume. Pore size distributions defined by both the local pore geometry and by the largest accessible pore show distinctly different behavior. The accessible pore size is strongly correlated to bone ingrowth. In the specimens studied a strong enhancement of bone ingrowth is observed for pore diameters>100 microm. Little difference in bone ingrowth is measured with different scaffold design. This result illustrates the benefits of microtomography for analyzing the 3D structure of scaffolds and the resultant bone ingrowth.
Fabrication of cell microintegrated blood vessel constructs through electrohydrodynamic atomization.	Biodegradable synthetic matrices that resemble the size scale, architecture and mechanical properties of the native extracellular matrix (ECM) can be fabricated through electrospinning. Tubular conduits may also be fabricated with properties appropriate for vascular tissue engineering. Achieving substantial cellular infiltration within the electrospun matrix in vitro remains time consuming and challenging. This difficulty was overcome by electrospraying smooth muscle cells (SMCs) concurrently with electrospinning of a biodegradable, elastomeric poly(ester urethane) urea (PEUU) small-diameter conduit. Constructs were cultured statically or in spinner flasks. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining demonstrated qualitatively uniform SMCs integration radially and circumferentially within the conduit after initial static culture. In comparison with static culture, samples cultured in spinner flasks indicated 2.4 times more viable cells present from MTT and significantly larger numbers of SMCs spread within the electrospun fiber networks by H&E image analysis. Conduits were strong and flexible with mechanical behaviors that mimicked those of native arteries, including static compliance of 1.6+/-0.5 x 10(-3)mmHg(-1), dynamic compliance of 8.7+/-1.8 x 10(-4)mmHg(-1), burst strengths of 1750+/-220 mmHg, and suture retention. This method to rapidly and efficiently integrate cells into a strong, compliant biodegradable tubular matrix represents a significant achievement as a tissue engineering approach for blood vessel replacement.
Endochondral bone formation from hydrogel carriers loaded with BMP2-transduced cells.	The success of ex vivo viral gene therapy systems for promoting bone formation could be improved through the development of systems to spatially localize gene expression. Towards this goal, we have encapsulated adenovirus-transduced human diploid fetal lung fibroblasts (MRC-5) expressing bone morphogenetic protein-type 2 (BMP-2) within non-degradable poly(ethylene glycol)-diacrylate (PEG-DA) hydrogels and implanted these intramuscularly to promote endochondral bone formation. To optimize BMP-2 secretion, the molecular weight of the polymers and cell densities were varied. Polymers with molecular weights of 6, 10, and 20 kDa were used to prepare hydrogels containing 1, 5, or 10 million transduced cells. The results showed that 10 million transduced fibroblasts that was the maximum number of cells feasible for encapsulation within PEG-DA 10 and 20 kDa hydrogels produced the highest amount of secreted BMP-2 protein. Encapsulation of MRC-5 and transduced fibroblasts resulted in 71 and 58% cell viability, respectively. The bioactivity of secreted BMP-2 protein from the hydrogels was confirmed with an alkaline phosphatase assay. Micro-CT of the lower limb muscles of NOD/SCID mice following implantation with hydrogels showed 39.5 +/- 25.0 mm3 mineralized tissue and 31.8 +/- 7.8 mm3 for the cell-injected mice, and the bone was localized to the hydrogel surfaces. Histology revealed bone as well as cartilage for both hydrogel implanted and cell-injected animals.
Self-organization and branching morphogenesis of primary salivary epithelial cells.	Embryonic tissues may provide clues about mechanisms required for tissue reassembly and regeneration, but few studies have utilized primary embryonic tissue to study tissue assembly. To test the capacity of tissue fragments to regenerate, we cultured fragments of embryonic day 13 (E13) mouse submandibular gland (SMG) epithelium and found that fragments as small as a quarter-bud retain the ability to branch. Further, we found that completely dissociated SMG epithelial cells self-organize into structures that undergo significant branching. Investigation into the mechanisms involved in tissue self-assembly demonstrated that inhibition of beta(1) integrin prevents cell aggregation, while inhibition of E-cadherin hinders aggregate compaction. Immunostaining showed that the cellular architecture and expression patterns of E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and actin in the reassembled aggregates mirror those seen in intact glands. Adding SMG mesenchymal cells to the epithelial cell cultures facilitates branching and morphological differentiation. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR indicated that the aggregates express the differentiation markers aquaporin-5 (AQP5), prolactin-inducible protein (PIP), and SMG protein C (SMGC). Together, these data show that dissociated SMG epithelial cells self-organize and undergo branching morphogenesis to form tissues with structural features and differentiation markers characteristic of the intact gland. These findings provide insights into self-assembly and branching that will facilitate future regeneration strategies in the salivary gland and other organs.
Differential effects of EGF and TGF-beta1 on fibroblast activity in fibrin-based tissue equivalents.	Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is commonly used to promote matrix production for engineered tissues in vitro, yet it also enhances fibroblast contractility. For applications where contraction is undesirable, we hypothesized that epidermal growth factor (EGF) would yield equivalent mechanical properties without enhancing contractility. In this study, the response of human dermal fibroblasts to EGF (5 ng/mL) and TGF-beta1 (5 ng/mL) was determined within hemispheric fibrin-based gels by assessing matrix compaction and strength, cell number, collagen production, and contractility. After 3 weeks, both cytokines enhanced compaction relative to controls, and EGF roughly doubled matrix strength over controls and TGF-beta1-treated samples. TGF-beta1 induced alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) expression whereas EGF did not. TGF-beta1 also increased retraction following substrate release while EGF reduced retraction. Treatment with cytochalasin D revealed that, regardless of growth factor, approximately 10% of the total retraction was due to residual matrix stress accumulated during cell-mediated remodeling. EGF increased the cell number by 17%, whereas TGF-beta1 decreased the cell number by 63% relative to controls. EGF and TGF-beta1 stimulated greater collagen content than controls by 49% and 33%, respectively. These data suggest that EGF may be an attractive alternative to TGF-beta1 for engineering fibrin-based connective tissue substitutes with adequate strength and minimal tissue contractility.
Tooth development: 2. Regenerating teeth in the laboratory.	Tooth loss can occur for a number of reasons and a variety of prosthetic tooth replacement solutions are available to the dental practitioner. This article discusses current approaches in the use of tissue engineering to replace teeth or repair dental tissues. These strategies will depend upon the manipulation of stem cells in the laboratory and, whilst much progress has recently been made, it is likely that successful human tooth regeneration is still some years ahead.
Mesenchymal stem cells: molecular targets for tissue engineering.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represent an adherent, fibroblast-like population present not only in the bone marrow, but in a number of tissues, including blood, adipose tissue, muscle, and dermis. Their extensive proliferation and transdifferentiation potential makes them best suited for tissue engineering applications. Identification of growth factors and signaling pathways involved in self-renewal and differentiation is important for designing strategies to overcome replicative senescence and attain directed differentiation. Wnt, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), and Notch pathways have been implicated to play key roles in self-renewal and differentiation of hematopoietic, intestinal, and epidermal stem cells. They are also involved in regulating MSC differentiation. However, MSC self-renewal has not received much attention, with Nucleostemin being the only recently identified proliferation molecule. Although immortalization using viral oncogenes and telomerase has been achieved, transformation in long-term cultures is a potential risk. Understanding of the mechanisms governing osteogenic differentiation of MSCs is expanding with the recent identification of two major transcription factors, Osterix and Runx2. Enhanced expansion as well as osteogenic differentiation of MSCs can be attained using a combinatorial approach involving co-expression of proliferation and differentiation genes. However, a thorough understanding of the molecular mechanism is necessary for enhancing the self-renewal ability and osteogenic potential in vitro.
Enhancement of ectopic bone formation by bone morphogenetic protein-2 released from a heparin-conjugated poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) scaffold.	In this study, a heparin-conjugated poly(l-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (HP-PLGA) scaffold was developed for the sustained delivery of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), and then used to address the hypothesis that BMP-2 delivered from this scaffold could enhance ectopic bone formation. We found the amount of heparin conjugated to the PLGA scaffolds could be increased up to 3.2-fold by using scaffolds made from star-shaped PLGA, as compared to scaffolds made from linear PLGA, and that the release of BMP-2 from the HP-PLGA scaffold was sustained for at least 14 days in vitro. The BMP-2 released from the HP-PLGA scaffold stimulated an increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity of osteoblasts for 14 days in vitro, suggesting that the HP-PLGA scaffold delivery system releases BMP-2 in a bioactive form for a prolonged period. By contrast, BMP-2 release from unmodified (no heparin) PLGA scaffolds induced a transient increase in ALP activity for the first 3 days and a decrease thereafter. In vivo bone formation studies showed the BMP-2-loaded HP-PLGA scaffolds induced bone formation to a much greater extent than did either BMP-2-loaded unmodified PLGA scaffolds or unloaded (no BMP-2) HP-PLGA scaffolds, with 9-fold greater bone formation area and 4-fold greater calcium content in the BMP-2-loaded HP-PLGA scaffold group compared to the BMP-2-loaded unmodified PLGA scaffold group. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the HP-PLGA delivery system is capable of potentiating the osteogenic efficacy of BMP-2, and underscore its importance as a possible bone regeneration strategy.
Biodegradable chitosan scaffolds containing microspheres as carriers for controlled transforming growth factor-beta1 delivery for cartilage tissue engineering.	Natural articular cartilage has a limited capacity for spontaneous regeneration. Controlled release of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) to cartilage defects can enhance chondrogenesis. In this study, we assessed the feasibility of using biodegradable chitosan microspheres as carriers for controlled TGF-beta1 delivery and the effect of released TGF-beta1 on the chondrogenic potential of chondrocytes.
Green fluorescent protein as a tracer of bone marrow stromal cells in bone tissue engineering in rhesus]	To observe the role of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in tracing rhesus bone marrow stromal cells (rBMSCs) during tissue-engineered bone formation in vivo.
Cellular compatibility of type collagen I scaffold and human adipose-derived stem cells]	To study the cellular compatibility of type I collagen scaffold and human adipose-derived stem cells (ADSC(S)) in order to explore appropriate scaffold materials for adipose tissue engineering.
Histological and histochemical evaluation of human oral mucosa constructs developed by tissue engineering.	Reconstruction of large oral mucosa defects is often challenging, since the shortage of healthy oral mucosa to replace the excised tissues is very common. In this context, tissue engineering techniques may provide a source of autologous tissues available for transplant in these patients. In this work, we developed a new model of artificial oral mucosa generated by tissue engineering using a fibrin-agarose scaffold. For that purpose, we generated primary cultures of human oral mucosa fibroblasts and keratinocytes from small biopsies of normal oral mucosa using enzymatic treatments. Then we determined the viability of the cultured cells by electron probe quantitative X-ray microanalysis, and we demonstrated that most of the cells in the primary cultures were alive and had high K/Na ratios. Once cell viability was determined, we used the cultured fibroblasts and keratinocytes to develop an artificial oral mucosa construct by using a fibrin-agarose extracellular matrix and a sequential culture technique using porous culture inserts. Histological analysis of the artificial tissues showed high similarities with normal oral mucosa controls. The epithelium of the oral substitutes had several layers, with desmosomes and apical microvilli and microplicae. Both the controls and the oral mucosa substitutes showed high suprabasal expression of cytokeratin 13 and low expression of cytokeratin 10. All these results suggest that our model of oral mucosa using fibrin-agarose scaffolds show several similarities with native human oral mucosa.
A study on nano-hydroxyapatite-chitosan scaffold for bone tissue engineering]	To fabricate a nano-hydroxyapatite-chitosan (nano-HA-CS) scaffold with high porosity by a simple and effective technique and to evaluate the physical and chemical properties and the cytocompatibility of the composite scaffold.
Fabrication of porous poly lactic acid-bone matrix gelatin composite bioactive material and its osteoinductive activity]	To fabricate a novel porous bioactive composite biomaterial consisting of poly lactic acid (PLA)-bone matrix gelatin (BMG) by using the supercritical carbon dioxide fluid technique (SC-CO2) and to evaluate its osteoinductive activity.
Effects of implanted myoblasts with soluble carriers on severely-cryodamaged tibialis anterior muscles]	To investigate whether the implanted myoblasts with the soluble carriers can improve the repairing efficiency for the severely-cryodamaged tibialis anterior muscles.
Comparison between effects of small intestinal submucosa graft and inside-out vein graft on repairing peripheral nerve defects]	To make a comparison between the effects of the small intestinal submucosa (SIS) graft and the inside-out vein graft on repairing the peripheral nerve defects.
An experimental research of tissue engineered submandibular gland cells growing on collagen sponge scaffold]	To make an experimental research of the tissue engineered rat submandibular glands (SMG) cells growing on a collagen sponge scaffold under an optimal culture condition.
Intestinal stem cells and tissue engineering technique used in treating intestinal diseases]	To review the development of researches on the stem cells and the tissue engineering technique used in the intestines.
Biomimetic tissue-engineered anterior cruciate ligament replacement.	There are >200,000 anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) ruptures each year in the United States, and, due to the poor healing properties of the ACL, surgical reconstruction with autograft or allograft tissue is the current treatment of these injuries. To regenerate the ACL, the ideal matrix should be biodegradable, porous, and exhibit sufficient mechanical strength to allow formation of neoligament tissue. Researchers have developed ACL scaffolds with collagen fibers, silk, biodegradable polymers, and composites with limited success. Our group has developed a biomimetic ligament replacement by using 3D braiding technology. In this preliminary in vivo rabbit model study for ACL reconstruction, the histological and mechanical evaluation demonstrated excellent healing and regeneration with our cell-seeded, tissue-engineered ligament replacement.
Homologous activated platelets stimulate differentiation and proliferation of primary human bone cells.	In bone tissue engineering approaches the expansion of bone cells is an essential part. In recent years the search for an appropriate alternative to fetal bovine serum (FBS) in the ex vivo expansion process has increased. This study demonstrates that platelet-rich clot releasate (PRCR) could be an appropriate alternative. The effects of PRCR on bone cell cultures derived from 5 different human donors were analyzed with respect to morphology, proliferation, apoptosis and gene expression. Five different PRCR concentrations were used: 1, 5, 10, 20 and 40%. The population doubling (PD) values were calculated for each concentration. Light microscopy analysis was done after 3 and 9 days. Flow cytometry was used to analyze cell cycle effects. The gene expression of alkaline phosphatase, collagen type 1, osteocalcin, bone sialoprotein and osteopontin was analyzed with RT-PCR. 10% FBS cultures were used as controls. With 10% PRCR the cell morphology resembled the control cultures; however, the PD values were significantly higher (p < 0.01). Concentrations of 20 and 40% had a clear cytotoxic effect, observed with light microscopy analysis and flow cytometry. PRCR had a potent effect on the expression of osteogenic markers and resulted in a concentration-dependent upregulation. We demonstrate that human bone cells derived from the maxillary alveolar ridge can be cultured in medium containing PRCR instead of FBS. The addition of PRCR results in higher proliferative capacity and upregulation of osteogenic markers. These results indicate that FBS could be avoided in future tissue engineering approaches using bone cells from this anatomic site.
Synthetic oxygen carriers in cardiac tissue engineering.	The prominence of cardiovascular diseases has prompted investigations into alternative treatment options, including tissue engineering. Currently, the biggest limitation in cardiac tissue engineering lies in delivering oxygen to all cells within the construct. Synthetic oxygen carriers hold much promise in that they have high affinity for oxygen and can be supplemented to culture medium without adverse effect on the cells. This review highlights two complementary studies by our group that utilized oxygen carriers in cardiac tissue engineering. Experimental and modeling studies were performed to evaluate the effect of a perfluorocarbon (PFC)-based synthetic oxygen carrier, Oxygent, on oxygen supply within tissue engineered cardiac constructs. Porous biorubber scaffolds with an array of parallel channels mimicking the capillary network were seeded with cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts, and cultivated in medium supplemented with PFC. The presence of PFC enhanced the transport of oxygen, increased oxygen concentrations, and yielded constructs that displayed stronger cardiac-like phenotype.
Atmospheric plasma treatment of porous polymer constructs for tissue engineering applications.	Porous 3D polymer scaffolds prepared by TIPS from PLGA (53:47) and PS are intrinsically hydrophobic which prohibits the wetting of such porous media by water. This limits the application of these materials for the fabrication of scaffolds as supports for cell adhesion/spreading. Here we demonstrate that the interior surfaces of polymer scaffolds can be effectively modified using atmospheric air plasma (AP). Polymer films (2D) were also modified as control. The surface properties of wet 2D and 3D scaffolds were characterised using zeta-potential and wettability measurements. These techniques were used as the primary screening methods to assess surface chemistry and the wettability of wet polymer constructs prior and after the surface treatment. The surfaces of the original polymers are rather hydrophobic as highlighted but contain acidic functional groups. Increased exposure to AP improved the water wetting of the treated surfaces because of the formation of a variety of oxygen and nitrogen containing functions. The morphology and pore structure was assessed using SEM and a liquid displacement test. The PLGA and PS foam samples have central regions which are open porous interconnected networks with maximum pore diameters of 49 microm for PLGA and 73 microm for PS foams.
Numerical simulation of chondrocyte growth in 3-D scaffolds]	Tissue engineering is a promising technique to repair or reconstruct the damaged cartilage in clinical use. However, chondrocyte growth is limited by the mass transport in scaffolds as diffusion is likely to be the primary mechanism. In this study, a mathematical model was developed based on oxygen diffusion and reaction to simulate chondrocyte growth. In order to accord with the fact, effective diffusion coefficients and space limitation were considered in this model and good agreement was found between experimental data and mathematical simulations. Furthermore, relationships established in the model system can be used to optimize the situation in real bioreactors and the design of three-dimensional scaffolds.
Autonomously vascularized cellular constructs in tissue engineering: opening a new perspective for biomedical science.	In tissue engineering cell cultures play a crucial role besides the matrix materials for the end of substituting lost tissue functions. The cell itself is situated at the cross-roads leading to different orders of scale, from molecule to organism and different levels of function, from biochemistry to macrophysiology. Extensive in vitro investigations have dissected a vast amount of cellular phenomena and the role of a number of bioactive substances has been elucidated in the past. Further, recombinant DNA technologies allow modulation of the expression profiles of virtually all kinds of cells. However, issues of vascularization in vivo limit transferability of these observations and restrict upscaling into clinical applications. Novel in vivo models of vascularization have evolved inspired from reconstructive microsurgical concepts and they encompass axial neovascularization by means of vascular induction. This work represents a brief description of latest developments and potential applications of neovascularization and angiogenesis in tissue engineering.
Human mesenchymal stem cells in contact with their environment: surface characteristics and the integrin system.	The identification of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in adult human tissues and the disclosure of their self-renew-al and multi-lineage differentiation capabilities have provided exciting prospects for cell-based regeneration and tis-sue engineering. Although a considerable amount of data is available describing MSCs, there is still lack of information regarding the molecular mechanisms that govern their adhesion and migration. In this work, we will review the current state of knowledge on integrins and other adhesion molecules found to be expressed on MSCs. The discussed topics include the characteristics of MSCs and their clinical applications, integrins and their central role in cell-matrix attachment and migration, and comments on mobilization, differentiation and contribution to tumour development. Finally, by understanding the complex and fundamental pathways by which MSCs attach and migrate, it might be possible to fine-tune the strategies for effective and safe use of MSCs in regenerative therapies.
Expression of a liver-specific function by a hepatoblastoma cell line cocultured with three-dimensional endothelialized tubes in collagen gels.	A human hepatoblastoma cell line, Hep G2, showed albumin production activity, a hepatic function, when cocultured with three-dimensional endothelialized tubes in collagen gels. The albumin production rate of the collagen-based liver-like constructs increased with increasing length of the endothelialized tube in the construct.
Matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI): biological and histological assessment.	Matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI) has been a treatment of cartilage injury since 2000, but little is known of the histological paradigm of tissue regeneration after implantation. MACI is a stable cell-based delivery system that enables the regeneration of hyaline-like cartilage. From a cohort of 56 MACI patients, we examined the phenotype of chondrocytes seeded on type I/III collagen scaffold, and conducted progressive histologic assessment over a period of 6 months. Chondrocyte-seeded collagen scaffolds from patient implants were analyzed by electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry (type II collagen and S-100), and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (aggrecan and type II collagen). Coincidental cartilage biopsies were obtained at 48 hours, 21 days, 6 months, 8 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months. Our data showed that chondrocytes on the collagen scaffold appeared spherical, well integrated into the matrix, and maintained the chondrocyte phenotype as evidenced by aggrecan, type II collagen, and S-100 expression. Progressive histologic evaluation of the biopsies showed the formation of cartilage-like tissue as early as 21 days, and 75% hyaline-like cartilage regeneration after 6 months. This preliminary study has suggested that MACI may offer an improved alternative to traditional treatments for cartilage injury by regenerating hyaline-like cartilage as early as 6 months after surgery.
A comparison between the chondrogenic potential of human bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) taken from the same donors.	Cartilage damage has been documented as one of the major problems leading to knee repair procedures worldwide. The low availability of cartilage that can be harvested without causing a negative health impact has led to the focus on the potential of stem cells, which have been transplanted into damaged areas and successfully grown into new healthy tissue. This study aims to compare the chondrogenic potential of two stem cell sources--adipose tissue and bone marrow. Stem cells were isolated from donor-matched adipose tissue and bone marrow, following established protocols. The cells were grown in a chondrogenic cocktail containing transforming growth factor-beta3 (TGF-beta3) up till 28 days, and assessed for expression changes of cartilage markers at the gene and protein level, using qualitative and quantitative methods. Controls were included for every time point. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results showed increases in the gene expression of collagen II in both the cell types that received TGF-beta3 treatment. However, histological, immunohistochemical, and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) assay clearly showed that collagen II and proteoglycans (PG) were synthesized only in the growth factor-treated bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs). These findings support the results obtained in our in vivo comparative study done on an animal model, suggesting that BMSCs are more suitable than adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) for chondrogenesis.
Engineering of adipose tissue by injection of human preadipocytes in fibrin.	Despite efforts of plastic surgeons in recent years to discover new alternatives, the techniques currently used for restoration of soft tissue defects still have disadvantages. The gold standard for soft tissue reconstruction remains autologous pedicled/free tissue transfer. This technique often results in high rates of operative morbidity and donor site deformity. Results obtained by autologous fat tissue transfer usually are disappointing because of a high graft resorption rate with unpredictable outcomes. Different tissue engineering approaches have been used in the past to generate adipose tissue. However, long-term results in terms of volume persistence have been disappointing.
Systematic investigation of porogen size and content on scaffold morphometric parameters and properties.	A systematic investigation of tissue engineering scaffolds prepared by salt leaching of a photopolymerized dimethacrylate was performed to determine how the scaffold structure (porosity, pore size, etc.) can be controlled and also to determine how the scaffold structure and the mechanical properties are related. Two series of scaffolds were prepared with (1) the same polymer-to-salt ratio but different salt sizes (ranging from average size of 100 to 390 microm) and (2) the same salt size but different polymer-to-salt ratios (ranging from salt mass of 70 to 90%). These scaffolds were examined to determine how the fabrication parameters affected the scaffold morphometric parameters and corresponding mechanical properties. Combined techniques of X-ray microcomputed tomography (microCT), mercury porosimetry, and gravimetric analysis were used to determine the scaffold parameters, such as porosity, pore size, and strut thickness and their size distributions, and pore interconnectivity. Scaffolds with porosities ranging from 57% to 92% (by volume) with interconnected structures could be fabricated using the current technique. The porosity and strut thickness were subsequently related to the mechanical response of the scaffolds, both of which contribute to the compression modulus of the scaffold. The current study shows that the structure and properties of the scaffold could be tailored by the size and the amount of porogen used in the fabrication of the scaffold.
Integration of layered chondrocyte-seeded alginate hydrogel scaffolds.	Motivated by the necessity to engineer appropriately stratified cartilage, the shear mechanics of layered, bovine chondrocyte-seeded 20mg/mL alginate scaffolds were investigated and related to the structure and biochemical composition. Chondrocyte-seeded alginate scaffolds were exposed to a calcium-chelating solution, layered, crosslinked in CaCl(2), and cultured for 10 weeks. The shear mechanical properties of the layered gels were statistically similar to those of the non-layered controls. Shear modulus of layered gels increased by approximately six-fold while toughness and shear strength increased by more than two-fold during the culture period. Hydroxyproline content in both layered gels and controls had statistically significant increases after 6 weeks. Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content of controls increased throughout culture while GAG content in layered gels leveled off after 4 weeks. Hematoxylin and eosin histological staining showed tissue growth at the interface over the first 4 weeks. Shear mechanical properties in the engineered tissues showed significant correlations to hydroxyproline content. Dependence of interfacial mechanical properties on hydroxyproline content was most evident for layered gels when compared to controls, especially for toughness and shear strength. Additionally, interfacial properties showed almost no dependence on GAG content. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of creating stratified engineered tissues through layering and that collagen deposition is necessary for interfacial integrity.
Novel method of decellularization of porcine valves using polyethylene glycol and gamma irradiation.	Recent tissue-engineered valves are in need of a breakthrough to overcome several limitations against clinical applications. We have developed a new method of decellularization using polyethylene glycol and gamma irradiation.
Isolation of human oral keratinocyte progenitor/stem cells.	Progenitor/stem cell populations of epithelium are known to reside in the small-sized cell population. Our objective was to physically isolate and characterize an oral keratinocyte-enriched population of small-sized progenitor/stem cells. Primary human oral mucosal keratinocytes cultured in a chemically defined serum-free culture system, devoid of animal-derived feeder cells, were sorted by relative cell size and characterized by immunolabeling for beta1 integrin, nuclear transcription factor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, and cell-cycle analysis. Sorted cells were distinguished as progenitor/stem cells by functional assays and their ability to regenerate an oral mucosal graft. Small-sized cells demonstrated the lowest expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, the highest colony-forming efficiency, a longer long-term proliferative potential, an enriched quiescent cell population, and the ability to regenerate an oral mucosal graft, implying that the small-sized cultured oral keratinocytes contained an enriched population of progenitor/stem cells.
Cartilage tissue engineering for laryngotracheal reconstruction: comparison of chondrocytes from three anatomic locations in the rabbit.	Tissue engineering may provide a technique to generate cartilage grafts for laryngotracheal reconstruction in children. The present study used a rabbit model to characterize cartilage generated by a candidate tissue engineering approach to determine, under baseline conditions, which chondrocytes in the rabbit produce tissue-engineered cartilage suitable for in vivo testing in laryngotracheal reconstruction. We characterized tissue-engineered cartilage generated in perfused bioreactor chambers from three sources of rabbit chondrocytes: articular, auricular, and nasal cartilage. Biomechanical testing and histological, immunohistochemical, and biochemical assays were performed to determine equilibrium unconfined compression (Young's) modulus, and biochemical composition and structure. We found that cartilage samples generated from articular or nasal chondrocytes lacked the mechanical integrity and stiffness necessary for completion of the biomechanical testing, but five of six auricular samples completed the biomechanical testing (moduli of 210 +/- 93 kPa in two samples at 3 weeks and 100 +/- 65 kPa in three samples at 6 weeks). Auricular samples showed more consistent staining for proteoglycans and collagen II and had significantly higher glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content and concentration and higher collagen content than articular or nasal samples. In addition, the delayed gadolinium enhanced MRI of cartilage (dGEMRIC) method revealed variations in GAG spatial distribution in auricular samples that were not present in articular or nasal samples. The results indicate that, for the candidate tissue engineering approach under baseline conditions, only rabbit auricular chondrocytes produce tissue-engineered cartilage suitable for in vivo testing in laryngotracheal reconstruction. The results also suggest that this and similar tissue engineering approaches must be optimized for each potential source of chondrocytes.
Osteogenic response of bone marrow stromal cells from normal and ovariectomized rats treated with a low dose of basic fibroblast growth factor.	Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a potent mitogen that exhibits stimulatory effects on bone tissue regeneration. To gain further insight into the potential of bFGF for systemic therapy in osteoporosis, we investigated the responsiveness of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) explanted from 7-month-old normal and ovariectomized (OVX) rats that were intravenously treated with a low dose of bFGF (25 microg/kg) for 2 weeks. The BMSCs were obtained using femoral aspiration and maintained in an osteogenic medium. The amount of cells recovered from bFGF-treated rats was lower than that from saline-treated rats, and proliferation of the cells was markedly less for the bFGF-treated rats. The BMSCs from the bFGF-treated rats also showed lower levels of specific alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity (ALP/deoxyribonucleic acid) and mineralization. Expression of the extracellular matrix proteins critical for mineralization, in particular osteopontin, was greater for bFGF-treated cells from both types of animals in the first week of culture, after which the expression of all markers significantly declined. Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry analyses of the tibiae showed an increase in bone mineral density after bFGF treatment only for OVX rats. We conclude that osteoprogenitor cells were depleted from the marrow of bFGF-treated rats, most likely because of the stimulatory effect of bFGF on bone formation.
Photo-patterning of porous hydrogels for tissue engineering.	Since pore size and geometry strongly impact cell behavior and in vivo reaction, the ability to create scaffolds with a wide range of pore geometries that can be tailored to suit a particular cell type addresses a key need in tissue engineering. In this contribution, we describe a novel and simple technique to design porous, degradable poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate) hydrogel scaffolds with well-defined architectures using a unique photolithography process and optimized polymer chemistry. A sphere-template was used to produce a highly uniform, monodisperse porous structure. To create a patterned and porous hydrogel scaffold, a photomask and initiating light were employed. Open, vertical channels ranging in size from 360+/-25 to 730+/-70 microm were patterned into approximately 700 microm thick hydrogels with pore diameters of 62+/-8 or 147+/-15 microm. Collagen type I was immobilized onto the scaffolds to facilitate cell adhesion. To assess the potential of these novel scaffolds for tissue engineering, a skeletal myoblast cell line (C2C12) was seeded onto scaffolds with 147 microm pores and 730 microm diameter channels, and analyzed by histology and digital volumetric imaging. Cell elongation, cell spreading and fibrillar formation were observed on these novel scaffolds. In summary, 3D architectures can be patterned into porous hydrogels in one step to create a wide range of tissue engineering scaffolds that may be tailored for specific applications.
Promotion of attachment of human bone marrow stromal cells by CCN2.	Cell attachment is a crucial step in tissue regeneration. In this study, human bone marrow stromal cells (hBMSCs) were isolated, and the effects of CCN2 on their attachment were examined. CCN2 significantly enhanced the hBMSC attachment, and this enhanced cell attachment was mainly regulated by the C-terminal module of CCN2. This enhancement was negated by the anti-integrin alpha(v)beta(3) antibody and p38 MAPK inhibitor, and phosphorylation of p38 MAPK was detected upon the enhanced cell attachment mediated by CCN2. We thus conclude that CCN2 enhances hBMSC attachment via integrin-p38 MAPK signal pathway. Enhanced hBMSC attachment on hydroxyapatite plates by CCN2 further indicated the utility of CCN2 in bone regeneration.
Ectopic neocartilage formation from predifferentiated human adipose derived stem cells induced by adenoviral-mediated transfer of hTGF beta2.	Chondrogenic potential of human adipose derived stem cells (hASCs) makes them a possible source of seeding cells for cartilage tissue engineering. In this study, chondrogenic differentiation of hASCs induced by transduction with replication-deficient adenovirus carrying human transforming growth factor beta2 (Ad5-hTGF beta2) was demonstrated by RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry staining, biochemical and western blot analysis. To evaluate if the in vitro differentiated hASCs could keep their chondrocytic phenotype and produce neo-cartilage in vivo, predifferentiated hASCs were seeded in different scaffolds and implanted in subcutaneous pockets on the dorsum of nude mice. After 4 and 12 weeks culture in vivo, specimens were harvested and examined by histological and immunohistochemical analysis, cartilage-like tissue formation was only found in alginate gel and PLGA/alginate compound groups, in PLGA group, fibrous tissues and angiogenesis ingrowth were observed. These findings demonstrated that adenovirus-mediated hTGF beta2 gene transfer could induce hASCs into a chondrogenic lineage in vitro, however, this predifferentiation did not guarantee ectopic cartilage formation in vivo unless appropriate three-dimensional scaffolds were used as the cell carry vehicles.
Cultured epithelial autograft (CEA) in burn treatment: three decades later.	Methods for handling burn wounds have changed in recent decades and increasingly aggressive surgical approach with early tangential excision and wound closure is being applied. Split-thickness skin (STSG) autografts are the "gold standard" for burn wound closure and remain the mainstay of treatment to provide permanent wound coverage and achieve healing. In some massively burned patients, however, the burns are so extensive that donor site availability is limited. Fortunately, considerable progress has been made in the culture of human keratinocytes and it is now possible to obtain large amounts of cultured epithelium from a small skin biopsy within 3-4 weeks. Questions related to optimal cell type for culture, culture techniques, transplantation of confluent sheets or non-confluent cells, immediate and late final take, carrier and transfer modality, as well as final outcome, ability to generate an epithelium after transplantation, and scar quality are still not fully answered. Progress accomplished since Reinwald and Green first described their keratinocyte culture technique is reviewed.
Physiological 3D tissue model of the airway wall and mucosa.	This protocol describes the setup, maintenance and characteristics of a tissue-engineered model of the human bronchial mucosa that can be used for basic physiology and pathophysiology studies. The model includes a well-differentiated epithelium with functional cilia, mucus secretion and subepithelial fibroblasts within type I collagen. The tissue is created within porous polymeric wells to prevent gel contraction and allow culture at the air-liquid interface. It requires at least 2 wk to be established and can be maintained thereafter for over 4 wk, with tissue differentiation moving towards a more physiologically relevant phenotype with increasing time in culture. Over time, the extracellular matrix also remodels, depositing proteins such as types III and IV collagen and fibronectin. Because it recapitulates many key anatomical and functional features of the airway wall, this model is well suited for a wide range of studies, including those on airway remodeling, transepithelial transport and inflammatory cell interactions with the mucosa. The entire protocol takes 4-6 wk, including cell expansion, depending on the extent of ciliogenesis desired.
Fabrication of cell-containing gel modules to assemble modular tissue-engineered constructs [corrected].	This paper describes a protocol to encapsulate cells in sub-millimeter-sized cylindrical collagen modules and to assemble these modules into a tissue-engineered construct within a continuous loop flow circuit. Modules are fabricated by gelling a solution of collagen, that contains suspended cells, within the lumen of a small-bore polyethylene tube. The tubing is then cut into short lengths using an automated cutter and gently vortexed to remove the cell-containing collagen modules from the tubing lumen. Modules are then randomly assembled into a modular construct by pipetting a suspension of modules into a larger tube that is positioned within a continuous flow circuit. A range of cylinder aspect ratios are achievable; therefore, this method could potentially be used to create short discs or, alternatively, long threads of soft gels, with or without encapsulated cells, for a variety of tissue-engineering applications. Module fabrication requires 1 d and assembly of a modular construct requires 2 h.
Navigation-guided transfer of cartilage defect geometry for arthroscopic autologous chondrocyte transplantation.	Cartilage repair with autologous chondrocyte transplantation shows intriguing results. Chondrogenic transplants generally must be inserted into cartilage defects via arthrotomy. The following study showed that arthroscopically-guided navigation could detect and precisely measure the cartilage defect sizes of different geometries. The new cartilage defect-managing module allowed for the precise transfer of navigated cartilage defect geometries for exact size preparation of the tissue engineering scaffolds. Therefore, navigation can help accomplish chondrocyte transplantation arthroscopically.
Regulation of human umbilical cord blood-derived multi-potent stem cells by autogenic osteoclast-based niche-like structure.	Stem cell niches provide the micro-environment for the development of stem cells. Under our culturing regimen, a kind of osteoclast-centralized structure supports the proliferation of MSCs, derived from human cord blood, once they reside on osteoclasts. MSCs in this structure expressed Oct4 which is a marker of embryonic stem cells. Floating daughter cells of MSCs colony showed abilities to differentiate into osteocyte, adipocyte, and neuronal progenitor cells. Compared with the easy senescence of MSCs without this niche-like structure in vitro, these results suggested that osteoclasts might play an important role the development and maintenance of Umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived MSCs and might provide a means to expand UCB-MSCs in vitro, more easily, through a stem cell niche-like structure.
Applicability of the dyes CFSE, CM-DiI and PKH26 for tracking of human preadipocytes to evaluate adipose tissue engineering.	Adipose tissue engineering with preadipocyte-loaded scaffolds requires adequate tracking of preadipocytes to allow evaluation and quantification of cell proliferation, expansion and differentiation in three-dimensional systems. To differentiate between graft and host cells, labeling of preadipocytes before implantation and tracking of these cells until harvest would be useful. Immunohistochemistry enables the differentiation between cells of different species but is time-consuming, expensive, elaborate, and not applicable for autologous transplantation. So far, there is no published method to use externally applied dyes for tracking of human preadipocytes in adipose tissue engineering. We tested the cell dyes PKH26, CM-DiI, and CFSE to analyze their applicability for labeling human preadipocytes. CM-DiI had toxicity levels of 45-70%, while 3-4% proliferating cells were stained on day 35. CFSE revealed clear cytoplasmic coloring in proliferating cells with 5-6% stained cells after 35 days and toxicity ranging from 55 to 90% dead cells. PKH26 demonstrates lowest levels of toxicity and best labeling results after 4 weeks in proliferating preadipocytes in monolayer. Although none of the dyes showed long-lasting labeling during proliferation, all three dyes demonstrated permanent staining in differentiated cells. The results reveal the problems of preadipocyte tracking with fluorescent dyes but justify the dye application for limited time periods.
Comparison of polyester scaffolds for bioengineered intestinal mucosa.	Biodegradable polyester scaffolds have proven useful for growing neointestinal tissue equivalents both in vitro and in vivo. These scaffolds allow cells to attach and grow in a 3-dimensional space while nutrient flow is maintained throughout the matrix. The purpose of this study was to evaluate different biopolymer constructs and to determine mucosal engraftment rates and mucosal morphology.
Osteochondral repair using the combination of fibroblast growth factor and amorphous calcium phosphate/poly(L-lactic acid) hybrid materials.	A novel amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP)/poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) material, which can experience morphological variations in the microstructure is supposed to be a suitable candidate as scaffold for cartilage tissue-engineering. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of this scaffold combined with basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) to repair articular cartilage defects in a rabbit model. Forty-two osteochondral defects created in the femoral condyles were (a) left untreated, (b) treated by PLLA combined with bFGF, or (c) ACP/PLLA loaded with bFGF. The treatment of PLLA incorporated with bFGF improved defect filling compared with that left untreated, while the regenerated tissue was mainly fibrocartilage and showed little bone formation with only a small amount of collagen type II (Col II) and no aggrecan gene message measured. When implanted with ACP/PLLA and bFGF, most of the defects were filled with a well-established layer of cartilage tissue with abundance of cartilaginous extracellular matrix accumulation observed. Positive immunohistochemical staining of Col II was observed. High levels of Col II and aggrecan message were also detected by RT-PCR. These results indicate the feasibility of using the combination of ACP/PLLA with bFGF for cartilage repair.
The performance of poly-epsilon-caprolactone scaffolds in a rabbit femur model with and without autologous stromal cells and BMP4.	The ability of a cellular construct to guide and promote tissue repair strongly relies on three components, namely, cell, scaffold and growth factors. We aimed to investigate the osteopromotive properties of cellular constructs composed of poly-epsilon-caprolactone (PCL) and rabbit bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs), or BMSCs engineered to express bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4). Highly porous biodegradable PCL scaffolds were obtained via phase inversion/salt leaching technique. BMSCs and transfected BMSCs were seeded within the scaffolds by using an alternate flow perfusion system and implanted into non-critical size defects in New Zealand rabbit femurs. In vivo biocompatibility, osteogenic and angiogenic effects induced by the presence of scaffolds were assessed by histology and histomorphometry of the femurs, retrieved 4 and 8 weeks after surgery. PCL without cells showed scarce bone formation at the scaffold-bone interface (29% bone/implant contact and 62% fibrous tissue/implant contact) and scarce PCL resorption (16%). Conversely, PCL seeded with autologous BMSCs stimulated new tissue formation into the macropores of the implant (20%) and neo-tissue vascularization. Finally, the BMP4-expressing BMSCs strongly favoured osteoinductivity of cellular constructs, as demonstrated by a more extensive bone/scaffold contact.
In vitro bioactivity and gene expression by cells cultured on titanium dioxide doped phosphate-based glasses.	In our previous study, glasses with 50 P(2)O(5)-(20-15) Na(2)O-30 CaO-(0-5 mol%) TiO(2) have been prepared by the conventional melt-quenching process. MG63 cell proliferation, gene expression, in vivo biocompatibility, and bioactivity of these glasses is the concern of this study. The results showed that addition of TiO(2) in small amounts up to 5 mol% enhanced the biocompatibility of these glasses. The cell metabolic activity was conspicuous, on 3 and 5 mol% TiO(2) compositions in particular, with no significant difference from Thermanox control over a period of 21 days. The findings from the gene expression study showed that, at day 1 and on 5 mol% TiO(2) glass, core binding protein factor alpha 1 (Cbfa1) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) showed significantly lower transcription level; however, collagen type I alpha subunit I (COLIAI) and Osteonectin (Sparc) showed no significant differences compared to the control. At day 7, all these genes transcription levels were not significantly different form the control, but at day 14, they were significantly higher than the control. Moreover, there were no significant differences detected in these genes on both 3 and 5 mol% TiO(2) glasses up to 7 days. At day 14; however, 5 mol% TiO(2) glasses showed significantly higher level than 3 mol% TiO(2) composition. This was also correlated by the presence of new bone tissue at the bone-particles interface for 5 mol% TiO(2) composition after 5 weeks of implantation in rat calvarium. Regardless of this favourable cell response and gene up-regulation, these glasses showed no evidence of apatite layer formation after 14 days incubation in SBF.
Rotating three-dimensional dynamic culture of osteoblasts seeded on segmental scaffolds with controlled internal channel architectures for construction of segmental tissue engineered bone in vitro]	To explore the feasibility, effectiveness, and mechanism of culturing osteoblasts on calcium phosphate cement (CPC) scaffolds with controlled internal channel architectures in a rotating bioreactor, and to develop a novel method for construction of segmental tissue engineered bone in vitro.
Observation of an injectable tissue-engineered bone constructed with autologous platelet-rich plasma and bone marrow stromal cells]	To construct an injectable tissue-engineered bone graft with fibrin glue (FG), autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) cultured in vitro and study its biological characteristics and microscopic structures.
Multi-axial mechanical stimulation of tissue engineered cartilage: review.	The development of tissue engineered cartilage is a promising new approach for the repair of damaged or diseased tissue. Since it has proven difficult to generate cartilaginous tissue with properties similar to that of native articular cartilage, several studies have used mechanical stimuli as a means to improve the quantity and quality of the developed tissue. In this study, we have investigated the effect of multi-axial loading applied during in vitro tissue formation to better reflect the physiological forces that chondrocytes are subjected to in vivo. Dynamic combined compression-shear stimulation (5% compression and 5% shear strain amplitudes) increased both collagen and proteoglycan synthesis (76 +/- 8% and 73 +/- 5%, respectively) over the static (unstimulated) controls. When this multi-axial loading condition was applied to the chondrocyte cultures over a four week period, there were significant improvements in both extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation and the mechanical properties of the in vitro-formed tissue (3-fold increase in compressive modulus and 1.75-fold increase in shear modulus). Stimulated tissues were also significantly thinner than the static controls (19% reduction) suggesting that there was a degree of ECM consolidation as a result of long-term multi-axial loading. This study demonstrated that stimulation by multi-axial forces can improve the quality of the in vitro-formed tissue, but additional studies are required to further optimize the conditions to favour improved biochemical and mechanical properties of the developed tissue.
Cultured skin cells interaction with polylactide surface coated by different collagen structures]	The purpose of this work was an optimization of polylactide film surfaces designed for human keratinocytes cultivation. The polylactide films were coated by collagen 1. The experiments showed that uniform covering of polymer surface by collagen, and formation of different collagen structures depend on the mode of the protein application. The differences in collagen distribution on the polymer surface influened the keratinocytes growth in culture. Analysis of keratinocytes alignment, as well as cytoskeleton organization demonstrated that fibrillar collagen promoted more even keratinocytes distribution in comparison with the distribution on molecular collagen.
The in vitro expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor from free and alginate-polyornithine encapsulated choroid plexus epithelium.	The choroid plexus (CP) is a transplantable cell source secreting tropic and trophic factors for the treatment of brain and peripheral trauma characterized by cellular loss or dysfunction. Here we characterize the expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) from neonatal porcine CP. Light and electron microscopy revealed that enzymatic digestion of the CP produced a preparation consisting primarily of epithelial cells without notable contaminating cells. Microarray analysis, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to quantify the nuclear, cytoplasmic, and secretory compartmentalization of VEGF. In vitro, the kinetics of VEGF release were orderly, with stepwise increases in secretion over time. The secretory profile of VEGF from CP grown in configurations ranging from a simple monolayer to free-floating 3-dimensional clusters to clusters encapsulated within alginate-polyornithine microcapsules was similar. VEGF output was not affected notably when the cells were maintained in 90% stress medium or in other maintenance media devoid of serum proteins. Secreted VEGF was bioactive, as confirmed by demonstrating its continued ability to proliferate co-cultured human umbilical vascular endothelial cells. The robust ability of these cells to continue to secrete VEGF (and presumably other bioactive proteins) across a variety of dimensional configurations and medium types has implications for their use in clinical indications requiring novel and imaginative use of engineered ectopic transplant sites.
Isolation and characterization of postnatal stem cells from human dental tissues.	It was reported that postnatal stem cells are present in adult tissues such as bone marrow, liver, muscle, dental pulp, and periodontal ligament. We isolated postnatal stem cells from human dental tissues such as dental pulp (DPSC), periodontal ligament (PDLSC), periapical follicle (PAFSC), and the surrounding mandibular bone marrow (MBMSC) to ascertain their properties. Immunocytochemistry proved the existence of stem cells in these cell populations using STRO-1 as a stem cell marker. These cells also expressed the mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) markers CD29 and CD44. The isolated cells showed self-renewal capabilities and colony-forming efficiency. Almost all of the dental stem cells showed optimal growth when they were cultured in alpha modification of Eagle's medium (alpha-MEM) supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS) and 100 microM ascorbic acid. Only the PAFSC showed increased proliferation in 20% FCS and 50 microM ascorbic acid. All of the dental stem cells were capable of differentiating into adipocytes and mineral nodule forming cells. MBMSC, in particular, showed much better mineralization compared to the others. These results indicate that MSCs exist in various tissues of the teeth and can differentiate into osteoblasts, adipocytes, and other kinds of cells with varying efficiency.
Placenta-derived multipotent stem cells induced to differentiate into insulin-positive cells.	In the present study, we successfully isolated PDMSCs from human placental tissues. The RT-PCR results show that PDMSCs preserved the genetic characteristics of the primitive embryonic stage--Oct-4 and Nanog. By using serum-free medium supplemented essential growth factors and induction medium culture for 4 weeks, a monolayer of spindle-like PDMSCs gradually formed 3D spheroid bodies (SB-PDMSCs). By using real-time RT-PCR, early mRNA expressions of Pdx1, as well as the Sox17 and Foxa2 genes, were observed to be significantly activated in SB-PDMSCs, followed by the expression of mature pancreas-related genes (insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin). The high insulin content of SB-PDMSCs was further confirmed by ELISA assay, and the glucose dependency was demonstrated by the corresponding insulin secretion level. In a transplantation study of streptozotocin-pretreated nude mice, the restoration of normoglycemia in the SB-PDMSC treated group was further observed. In conclusion, these results indicate that PDMSCs are an excellent source for the induced differentiation of well-functioning insulin-positive cells. The potential of these insulin producing cells derived from PDMSCs was also demonstrated functionally by the demonstration of secreted insulin in vitro and effective control of blood glucose levels in vivo.
Ex vivo expansion of rat bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells on microcarrier beads in spin culture.	Bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells (BM-MSC) are attractive candidates for connective tissue regeneration. Currently, their use is limited by poor overall cell survival and high apoptosis rates upon transplantation in vivo. We hypothesized that disruption of cell-extracellular matrix contact either during cell expansion or immediately prior to cell transplantation may impair cell viability and facilitate apoptosis. We therefore investigated whether BM-MSC can be expanded on microcarrier beads in spin culture and directly transplanted. This novel approach removes the need for the repeated trypsinizations that are usually required for expansion and transplantation. CultiSpher-S gelatin microcarrier beads supported Fisher and transgenic green fluorescent protein (GFP)(+) Sprague Dawley rat BM-MSC expansion. Bead-expanded BM-MSC could still be differentiated along the chondrogenic, osteogenic and adipogenic lineages. In the short term, direct subcutaneous transplantation of cells expanded on microcarriers was associated with significantly less apoptosis than trypsinized control cells. In the long term, BM-MSC expanded on microcarrier beads induced de novo trabecular bone formation in vivo. This novel approach present several advantages over current expansion-transplantation protocols for mesenchymal tissue regeneration.
Cell patterning chip for controlling the stem cell microenvironment.	Cell-cell signaling is an important component of the stem cell microenvironment, affecting both differentiation and self-renewal. However, traditional cell-culture techniques do not provide precise control over cell-cell interactions, while existing cell-patterning technologies are limited when used with proliferating or motile cells. To address these limitations, we created the Bio Flip Chip (BFC), a microfabricated polymer chip containing thousands of microwells, each sized to trap down to a single stem cell. We have demonstrated the functionality of the BFC by patterning a 50 x 50 grid of murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs), with patterning efficiencies >75%, onto a variety of substrates--a cell-culture dish patterned with gelatin, a 3-D substrate, and even another layer of cells. We also used the BFC to pattern small groups of cells, with and without cell-cell contact, allowing incremental and independent control of contact-mediated signaling. We present quantitative evidence that cell-cell contact plays an important role in depressing mESC colony formation, and show that E-cadherin is involved in this negative regulatory pathway. Thus, by allowing exquisite control of the cellular microenvironment, we provide a technology that enables new applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Engineering cartilage tissues with the shape of human nasal alar by using chondrocyte macroaggregate--Experiment study in rabbit model.	Despite of progresses in tissue engineering based on cell/scaffold strategy, uneven cell distribution as well as tissue formation in the scaffold, limited cell seeding efficiency and inflammatory reaction triggered by the degradation of scaffold remain problems to be resolved. In this study, we proposed a novel cell-macroaggregate cultivation system, and explored a feasible strategy to construct three-dimensional cartilage tissue with shape of human nasal alar by using cell macroaggregate. Isolated chondrocytes was cultured at high density to form a monolayer chondrocyte sheet as well as expanded for seeding on the sheet to produce mechanically operable cell macroaggregate. Chondrocyte macroaggregates were then fabricated into transplants with shape of nasal alar by using Internal support or External scaffold techniques; results of in vivo chondrogenesis were investigated in immunocompetent animal. Chondrocyte macroaggregates presented long survival time and good viability; constructs fabricated using both techniques can develop into tissues with characteristic structure of native cartilage, glycosaminoglycans as well as type II collagen were highly produced in the ECM of engineered cartilages. By placing hyaluronan ester film as Internal support, the predetermined shape of the chondrocyte macroaggregate can be well maintained. In contrast, due to the poor mechanical stability of grafts fabricated in External scaffold group, obvious deformation occurred in harvested specimens. The experiment proved the usefulness of chondrocyte macroaggregate in cartilage regeneration, and provided a new strategy to engineer cartilage with special shape by using cell macroaggregate/biodegradable support.
Multifunctional chondroitin sulphate for cartilage tissue-biomaterial integration.	A biologically active, high-strength tissue adhesive is needed for numerous medical applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Integration of biomaterials or implants with surrounding native tissue is crucial for both immediate functionality and long-term performance of the tissue. Here, we use the biopolymer chondroitin sulphate (CS), one of the major components of cartilage extracellular matrix, to develop a novel bioadhesive that is readily applied and acts quickly. CS was chemically functionalized with methacrylate and aldehyde groups on the polysaccharide backbone to chemically bridge biomaterials and tissue proteins via a twofold covalent link. Three-dimensional hydrogels (with and without cells) bonded to articular cartilage defects. In in vitro and in vivo functional studies this approach led to mechanical stability of the hydrogel and tissue repair in cartilage defects.
Tissue engineering for cutaneous wounds.	Skin, the largest organ in the body, protects against toxins and microorganisms in the environment and serves to prevent dehydration of all non-aquatic animals. Immune surveillance, sensory detection, and self-healing are other critical functions of the skin. Loss of skin integrity because of injury or illness may result acutely in substantial physiologic imbalance and ultimately in significant disability or even death. It is estimated that, in 1992, there were 35.2 million cases of significant skin loss (US data) that required major therapeutic intervention. Of these, approximately 7 million wounds become chronic. Regardless of the specific advanced wound care product, the ideal goal would be to regenerate tissues such that both the structural and functional properties of the wounded tissue are restored to the levels before injury. The advent of tissue-engineered skin replacements revolutionized the therapeutic potential for recalcitrant wounds and for wounds that are not amenable to primary closure. This article will introduce the reader to the field of tissue engineering, briefly review tissue-engineered skin replacement from a historical perspective and then review current state-of-the-art concepts from our vantage point.
Selective percutaneous desiccation of the perforators with radiofrequency for strategic transfer of angiosomes in a sequential four-territory cutaneous island flap model.	Research in prevention of partial flap necrosis has recently concentrated on extending the safe length of a flap by ligating vessels of known territories. To advance this approach one step further, the authors decided to reveal the least invasive surgical strategy for transfer of angiosomes.
Vascular delay revisited.	The technique of vascular delay has been used by plastic surgeons for nearly 500 years and has proven useful for reliably transferring tissue and allowing for a greater volume of tissue to be reliably harvested. Delay procedures are an essential plastic surgical tool for a variety of aesthetic and reconstructive procedures. Despite the widespread use of vascular delay procedures, the mechanism by which this phenomenon occurs remains unclear. A number of groups have exhaustively examined microvascular changes that occur during vascular delay. Theories have been proposed ranging from the dilation of choke vessels to changes in metabolism and new blood vessel formation. Inherent in these theories is the concept that ischemia is able to act as the primary stimulus for vascular changes. The purpose of this review is to revisit the theories proposed to underlie the delay phenomenon in light of recent advances in vascular biology. In particular, the participation of bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells in the delay phenomenon is explored. Greater understanding of the role these cells play in new blood vessel formation will be of considerable clinical benefit to high-risk patients in future applications of delay procedures.
Injectable biodegradable hydrogel composites for rabbit marrow mesenchymal stem cell and growth factor delivery for cartilage tissue engineering.	We investigated the development of an injectable, biodegradable hydrogel composite of oligo(poly(ethylene glycol) fumarate) (OPF) with encapsulated rabbit marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and gelatin microparticles (MPs) loaded with transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) for cartilage tissue engineering applications. Rabbit MSCs and TGF-beta1-loaded MPs were mixed with OPF, a poly(ethylene glycol)-diacrylate crosslinker and the radical initiators ammonium persulfate and N,N,N',N'-tetramethylethylenediamine, and then crosslinked at 37 degrees C for 8 min to form hydrogel composites. Three studies were conducted over 14 days in order to examine the effects of: (1) the composite formulation, (2) the MSC seeding density, and (3) the TGF-beta1 concentration on the chondrogenic differentiation of encapsulated rabbit MSCs. Bioassay results showed no significant difference in DNA amount between groups, however, groups with MPs had a significant increase in glycosaminoglycan content per DNA starting at day 7 as compared to controls at day 0. Chondrocyte-specific gene expression of type II collagen and aggrecan were only evident in groups containing TGF-beta1-loaded MPs and varied with TGF-beta1 concentration in a dose-dependent manner. Specifically, type II collagen gene expression exhibited a 161+/-49-fold increase and aggrecan gene expression a 221+/-151-fold increase after 14 days with the highest dose of TGF-beta1 (16 ng/ml). These results indicate that encapsulated rabbit MSCs remained viable over the culture period and differentiated into chondrocyte-like cells, thus suggesting the potential of OPF composite hydrogels as part of a novel strategy for localized delivery of stem cells and bioactive molecules.
Hyperglycemia and diabetic renal change in a model of polyvinyl alcohol bioartificial pancreas transplantation.	We have developed a bioartificial pancreas transplantation method using polyvinyl alcohol. Using this model, the relationship between hyperglycemia and parameters that represent renal function was investigated.
Modified acellularization for successful vascular xenotransplantation.	The purpose of this study was to estimate the possibilities of an acellular matrix using a modified acellularization protocol, which circumvents immunological, microbiological, and physiological barriers. We treated porcine subclavian arteries with various reagents to construct acellular grafts. Afterwards, these grafts were interposed in a mongrel dogs' abdominal aorta. Six dogs underwent interposition with fresh porcine grafts (control group), and seven had interposed acellular grafts (acellular group). The control and acellular group dogs were sacrificed at 1, 3, 5 (n=2 in each group) and 12 months (n=1 in acellular group) after the operation. Histopathological examinations were then performed, to assess the degree to which re-endothelialization, inflammation, thrombus formation, and calcification occurred. The entire acellular group, but none of the control group, exhibited re-endothelialization. The degrees to which inflammation, thrombosis, and calcification occurred were found to be lower in the acellular group. We also discovered many smooth muscle cells in the medial layer of the xenograft that had been implanted in the dog sacrificed 12 months after the operation. These results suggest that the construction of xenografts using our modified acellularization protocol may offer acceptable outcomes as a vascular xenograft.
In-vitro reconstitution of hepatic tissue architectures with neonatal mouse liver cells using three-dimensional culture.	Stem cells have the potential to differentiate into multiple lineages, and the capabilities to self-renew, and reconstitute tissues following transplantation. Thus, stem cells are expected to be useful for regenerative medicine; however, the mechanisms that regulate the reconstitution of three-dimensional (3-D) tissues remain to be elucidated. To study such mechanisms, we have established a novel procedure of 3-D culture that supports the formation of tissues from isolated cells, including hepatic stem/progenitor cells in vitro. We cultured neonatal mouse liver cell populations, including hepatic stem/progenitor cells, in a simulated microgravity environment produced by a Rotating Wall Vessel bioreactor. After 8 days in culture, we obtained a 3-D tissue architecture. Histological analysis showed that bile duct structures secreting mucin formed complicated tubular branches in the peripheral region. In the non-bile duct structure region, we observed mature hepatocytes that were capable of producing albumin and storing glycogen. Thus, we were able to establish a novel 3-D culture system that is able to reconstitute functional hepatic tissue architecture from isolated neonatal mouse liver cells.
An attempt to construct the stroma of cornea using primary cultured corneal cells.	The number of patients currently awaiting corneal transplantation has resulted in the need to develop an artificial corneal replacement. In this study, we aimed to construct the corneal stroma using non-transformed corneal cells and a perfusion cell culture method. Corneal cells isolated from chicken embryos or rabbit and were embedded in the alkaline solubilized collagen gels crosslinked by TSG (Pentaerythritol polyethyleneglycol ether tetrasuccinimidyl glutarate). During culture, the majority of cells migrated from inside of the gel. The chicken and rabbit cells changed their morphology and stratified structures were constructed within the gels. These microstructures were similar to the natural corneal tissue. TEM analysis was performed to confirm the nano-microstructure of the constructs. Contrary to expectation, the cornea-like nanostructure of collagen fibrils was not observed within the gels. Further study including for example, such as the addition of dynamic stress or co-culture with endothelial cells, are therefore required in order to produce artificial constructs with the same superstructure as natural corneal tissue.
Biodegradable nanomats produced by electrospinning: expanding multifunctionality and potential for tissue engineering.	With increasing interest in nanotechnology, development of nanofibers (n-fibers) by using the technique of electrospinning is gaining new momentum. Among important potential applications of n-fiber-based structures, scaffolds for tissue-engineering represent an advancing front. Nanoscaffolds (n-scaffolds) are closer to natural extracellular matrix (ECM) and its nanoscale fibrous structure. Although the technique of electrospinning is relatively old, various improvements have been made in the last decades to explore the spinning of submicron fibers from biodegradable polymers and to develop also multifunctional drug-releasing and bioactive scaffolds. Various factors can affect the properties of resulting nanostructures that can be classified into three main categories, namely: (1) Substrate related, (2) Apparatus related, and (3) Environment related factors. Developed n-scaffolds were tested for their cytocompatibility using different cell models and were seeded with cells for to develop tissue engineering constructs. Most importantly, studies have looked at the potential of using n-scaffolds for the development of blood vessels. There is a large area ahead for further applications and development of the field. For instance, multifunctional scaffolds that can be used as controlled delivery system do have a potential and have yet to be investigated for engineering of various tissues. So far, in vivo data on n-scaffolds are scarce, but in future reports are expected to emerge. With the convergence of the fields of nanotechnology, drug release and tissue engineering, new solutions could be found for the current limitations of tissue engineering scaffolds, which may enhance their functionality upon in vivo implantation. In this paper electrospinning process, factors affecting it, used polymers, developed n-scaffolds and their characterization are reviewed with focus on application in tissue engineering.
Biological properties of carbon nanotubes.	Carbon nanotubes are novel materials with unique physical and chemical properties, and have been considered for use in numerous technological applications. More recently, attention has turned to the unique biological and medical properties of these materials. In this review, the processing, chemical properties, physical properties, nucleic acid interaction, cell interaction, and toxicologic properties of nanotubes are described. Finally, future directions in this area are discussed.
Advances and prospects on biomolecules functionalized carbon nanotubes.	In recent years, functionalization of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) with biomolecules such as nucleotide acids, proteins, and polymers as well as cells have emerged as a new exciting field. Theoretical and experimental studies of structure and function of bio-inspired CNT composites have made great advances. The importance of nucleic acids, proteins, and polymers to the fundamental developments in CNT-based bio-nano-composites or devices has been recognized. In particular, biomechanics, biochemistry, thermodynamics, electronic, optical, and magnetic properties of the bio-inspired CNT composites have become a new interdisciplinary frontier in life science and nanomaterial science. Here we review some of the main advances in this field over the past few years, explore the application prospects, and discuss the issues, approaches, and challenges, with the aim of stimulating a broader interest in developing CNT-based bio-nanotechnology.
Self-assembling peptide scaffolds promote enamel remineralization.	Rationally designed beta-sheet-forming peptides that spontaneously form three-dimensional fibrillar scaffolds in response to specific environmental triggers may potentially be used in skeletal tissue engineering, including the treatment/prevention of dental caries, via bioactive surface groups. We hypothesized that infiltration of caries lesions with monomeric low-viscosity peptide solutions would be followed by in situ polymerization triggered by conditions of pH and ionic strength, providing a biomimetic scaffold capable of hydroxyapatite nucleation, promoting repair. Our aim was to determine the effect of an anionic peptide applied to caries-like lesions in human dental enamel under simulated intra-oral conditions of pH cycling. Peptide treatment significantly increased net mineral gain by the lesions, due to both increased remineralization and inhibition of demineralization over a five-day period. The assembled peptide was also capable of inducing hydroxyapatite nucleation de novo. The results suggest that self-assembling peptides may be useful in the modulation of mineral behavior during in situ dental tissue engineering.
Experimental regeneration of canine larynx: a trial with tissue engineering techniques.	Since this tissue engineering technique is cost-effective and is less invasive to patients, it may replace conventional approaches in laryngeal reconstructive surgeries.
Gas6, a new regulator of chondrogenic differentiation from mesenchymal cells.	The mesenchymal cell line C3H10T1/2 can be preferentially induced toward chondrogenesis by culturing as a micromass in the presence of bone morphogenetic protein 2. To screen new regulator genes for chondrogenic differentiation, we performed differential display polymerase chain reaction and identified growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6) as a gene that was clearly downregulated by this induction of chondrogenic differentiation. Blockage of Gas6 mRNA expression by siRNA remarkably enhanced the chondrogenic differentiation, while stimulation with recombinant Gas6 inhibited the mRNA expressions of type II collagen (Col2a1) and aggrecan. Gas6 signaling activated the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, SAPK/JNK, and Akt, but not p38 MAPK. These results suggest that Gas6 negatively regulates chondrogenic differentiation, at least through the MAPK pathway.
Characterization of porcine arterial endothelial cells cultured on amniotic membrane, a potential matrix for vascular tissue engineering.	The existing of basement membrane improves the development of endothelium while constructing blood vessel equivalent. The amniotic membrane (AM) provides a natural basement membrane and has been used in ocular surface reconstruction. This study evaluated the molecular and cellular characteristics of porcine vascular endothelial cells (ECs) cultured on AM. ECs cultured on AM expressed the endothelial marker vWF and exhibited normal endothelial morphology. Here, we demonstrated that AM enhanced the expression of intercellular molecules, platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1), and adhesion molecule VE-cadherin at the intercellular junctions. The expression level of integrin was markedly higher in ECs cultured on AM than on plastic dish. Furthermore, the AM downregulated the expression of E-selectin and P-selectin in both LPS-activated and non-activated ECs. Consistently, adhesion of leukocytes to both activated and non-activated cells was decreased in ECs cultured on AM. Our results suggest that AM is an ideal matrix to develop a functional endothelium in blood vessel equivalent construction.
Isolation of multipotent stem cells from adult rat periodontal ligament by neurosphere-forming culture system.	Adult multipotent stem cells have been isolated from various non-neural tissues. Here, we report the isolation of multipotent stem cells from rat periodontal ligament (PDL) using neurosphere-forming culture system. Enzymatically dissociated PDL cells were cultured in serum-free basal medium containing EGF, bFGF, and LIF. Free-floating spheres expressing nestin, GFAP, and vimentin were formed by 7 days of the culture. In addition, spheres expressed mRNA of neural crest-associated transcription factors Twist, Slug, Sox2, and Sox9. PDL-derived spheres differentiated into multinucleated myotubes, NFM-positive neuron-like cells, GFAP-positive astrocyte-like cells and CNPase-positive oligodendrocyte-like cells. Methylcellulose colony-forming assay revealed that a single PDL cell could form a sphere at a frequency of approximately 0.01% of total cells. These data indicate that PDL-derived spheres contained multipotent adult stem cells capable of differentiating into both neural and mesodermal progeny. This is the first report of the isolation of PDL-derived stem cells with primitive neural crest stem cell features.
Proliferation and differentiation of MC 3T3-E1 cells cultured on nanohydroxyapatite/chitosan composite scaffolds]	with chitosan in situ using a chemical method and a porous structure obtained was then lyophilized. Preosteoblast MC 3T3-E1 the scaffolds was examined after staining it with Wright's stain. Their proliferation was assessed using MTZ assay. After being Abstract Nanohydroxyapatite/chitosan composite scaffolds were fabricated and the proliferation and differentiation of preosteoblast MC 3T3-E1 on them were examined for the assessment of their biocompatibility. Nanohydroxyapatite was combined with chitosan in situ using a chemical method and a porous structure obtained was then lyophilized. Preosteoblast MC 333-E1 cells were inoculated into the porous composite scaffolds and chitosan scaffolds, respectively. The morphology of cells cultured on the scaffolds was examined after staining it with Wright's stain. Their proliferation was assessed using MTT assay. After being cultured in conditioned medium for 30 days, the cells' alkaline phosphatase activities on the scaffolds were studied in situ to compare their differentiation levelabout. Moreover, the alkaline phosphatase activities were assessed with a kit. The expression level of characteristic osteogenic gene was evaluated using Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). The results indicated that MC 3T3-E1 cells grown on the composite scaffolds showed a higher proliferation rate and spread better than that on chitosan scaffolds. The alkaline phosphatase stain results showed that the alkaline phosphatase activity of cells on composite scaffolds was significantly higher than that on the chitosan scaffolds. In addition, the quantitative examination of alkaline phosphatase activity indicated that the cells cultured on the composite scaffolds expressed an activity level about 8 times higher than that on chitosan scaffolds. Simultaneously, the osteogenic gene osteopontin (OPN) of cells cultured on composite scaffolds showed a higher expression level than that on chitosan scaffolds. Another osteogenic gene osteocalcin (OC) was expressed in cells cultured on composite scaffolds, whereas it was not detected in cells on chitosan scaffolds. The addition of nanohydroxyapatite in the scaffolds improved not only the proliferation but also the differentiation of preosteoblast cultured on them. The composite scaffolds showed good biocompatibility and bioactivity. These scaffolds would be promising in bone tissue engineering.
Taking tissue-engineering principles into theater: augmentation of impacted allograft with human bone marrow stromal cells.	Human bone marrow contains bone progenitor cells that arise from multipotent mesenchymal stem cells. Seeding bone progenitor cells onto a scaffold can produce a 3D living composite with significant mechanical and biological potential. This article details laboratory and clinical findings from two clinical cases, where different proximal femoral conditions were treated using impacted allograft augmented with marrow-derived autogenous progenitor cells. Autologous bone marrow was seeded onto highly washed morselized allograft and impacted. Samples of the impacted graft were also taken for ex vivo analysis. Both patients made an uncomplicated clinical recovery. Imaging confirmed defect filling with encouraging initial graft incorporation. Histochemical and alkaline phosphatase staining demonstrated that a live composite graft with osteogenic activity had been introduced into the defects. These studies demonstrate that marrow-derived cells can adhere to highly washed morselized allograft, survive the impaction process and proliferate with an osteoblastic phenotype, thus creating a living composite.
Regulation of tissue-engineered products in the European Union: where are we heading?	The emergence of tissue-engineered products (TEPs) raises a standard question for regulators: is the existing regulatory regime appropriate or is there a case for a new regulatory framework? In the USA, the FDA has developed a risk-based approach to TEPs, whereas in Europe, a common regulatory strategy for these products has not yet been implemented. In order to fill this perceived gap, member states have set up domestic rules, which has led to an unclear and patchy regulatory situation. The Regulation on Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products, voted on by the European Commission in November 2005, has been developed by European Union regulators to provide the necessary framework to regulate TEPs. As the text is still to be discussed and to be passed, many concerns have been raised regarding the appropriateness of the proposed framework.
Efficient transient genetic labeling of human CD34+ progenitor cells for in vivo application.	Genetic labeling of human hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC) and their consecutive fate-mapping in vivo is an approach to answer intriguing questions in stem cell biology. We recently reported efficient transient genetic labeling of human CD34+ HPC with the truncated low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (DeltaLNGFR) for in vivo application. Here we investigate whether HPC labeling with DeltaLNGFR affects lineage-specific cell differentiation, whether DeltaLNGFR expression is maintained during lineage-specific cell differentiation and which leukemia cell line might be an appropriate cell culture model for human CD34+ HPC. Human CD34+ peripheral blood stem cells and various leukemia cell lines were characterized by immunophenotyping. Cells were transfected using nucleofection. Hematopoietic differentiation was studied by colony-forming assays. DeltaLNGFR expression was assessed using reverse transcription-PCR, immunofluorescence and flow cytometry. Nucleofection was efficient and did not significantly reduce hematopoietic cell differentiation. Mature myeloid cells (CD66b+) derived from human CD34+ HPC and Mutz2 cells maintained DeltaLNGFR expression at a high percentage (70 +/- 2% and 58 +/- 2%, respectively). Mutz2 cells may serve as an in vitro model for human myeloid HPC. The method described herein has been adopted to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) guidelines and is ready for in vivo application.
Efficient conversion of ES cells into myogenic lineage using the gene-inducible system.	We established genetically engineered ES (ZHTc6-MyoD) cells that harbor a tetracycline-regulated expression vector encoding myogenic transcriptional factor MyoD, for the therapy of muscle diseases, especially Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Almost all the ZHTc6-MyoD cells were induced into muscle lineage after removal of tetracycline. The undifferentiated ZHTc6-MyoD cells are Sca-1+ and c-kit+, but CD34-, all well-known markers for mouse hematopoietic stem cells. In addition, they are able to maintain themselves in the undifferentiated state, even after one month of culture. Therefore, it is possible to obtain a large quantity of ZHTc6-MyoD cells in the undifferentiated state that maintain the potential to differentiate only into muscle lineage. Additionally, at two weeks post-injection of these cells into muscle of mdx, a model mouse of DMD, clusters of dystrophin-positive myofibers were observed at the injection site. Therefore, ES cells have considerable therapeutic potential for treating muscle diseases.
Formation of human hepatocyte-like cells with different cellular phenotypes by human umbilical cord blood-derived cells in the human-rat chimeras.	We took advantage of the proliferative and permissive environment of the developing pre-immune fetus to develop a noninjury human-rat xenograft small animal model, in which the in utero transplantation of low-density mononuclear cells (MNCs) from human umbilical cord blood (hUCB) into fetal rats at 9-11 days of gestation led to the formation of human hepatocyte-like cells (hHLCs) with different cellular phenotypes, as revealed by positive immunostaining for human-specific alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), cytokeratin 19 (CK19), cytokeratin 8 (CK8), cytokeratin 18 (CK18), and albumin (Alb), and with some animals exhibiting levels as high as 10.7% of donor-derived human cells in the recipient liver. More interestingly, donor-derived human cells stained positively for CD34 and CD45 in the liver of 2-month-old rat. Human hepatic differentiation appeared to partially follow the process of hepatic ontogeny, as evidenced by the expression of AFP gene at an early stage and albumin gene at a later stage. Human hepatocytes generated in this model retained functional properties of normal hepatocytes. In this xenogeneic system, the engrafted donor-derived human cells persisted in the recipient liver for at least 6 months after birth. Taken together, these findings suggest that the donor-derived human cells with different cellular phenotypes are found in the recipient liver and hHLCs hold biological activity. This humanized small animal model, which offers an in vivo environment more closely resembling the situations in human, provides an invaluable approach for in vivo investigating human stem cell behaviors, and further in vivo examining fundamental mechanisms controlling human stem cell fates in the future.
Nanostructured materials for applications in drug delivery and tissue engineering.	Research in the areas of drug delivery and tissue engineering has witnessed tremendous progress in recent years due to their unlimited potential to improve human health. Meanwhile, the development of nanotechnology provides opportunities to characterize, manipulate and organize matter systematically at the nanometer scale. Biomaterials with nano-scale organizations have been used as controlled release reservoirs for drug delivery and artificial matrices for tissue engineering. Drug-delivery systems can be synthesized with controlled composition, shape, size and morphology. Their surface properties can be manipulated to increase solubility, immunocompatibility and cellular uptake. The limitations of current drug delivery systems include suboptimal bioavailability, limited effective targeting and potential cytotoxicity. Promising and versatile nano-scale drug-delivery systems include nanoparticles, nanocapsules, nanotubes, nanogels and dendrimers. They can be used to deliver both small-molecule drugs and various classes of biomacromolecules, such as peptides, proteins, plasmid DNA and synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides. Whereas traditional tissue-engineering scaffolds were based on hydrolytically degradable macroporous materials, current approaches emphasize the control over cell behaviors and tissue formation by nano-scale topography that closely mimics the natural extracellular matrix (ECM). The understanding that the natural ECM is a multifunctional nanocomposite motivated researchers to develop nanofibrous scaffolds through electrospinning or self-assembly. Nanocomposites containing nanocrystals have been shown to elicit active bone growth. Drug delivery and tissue engineering are closely related fields. In fact, tissue engineering can be viewed as a special case of drug delivery where the goal is to accomplish controlled delivery of mammalian cells. Controlled release of therapeutic factors in turn will enhance the efficacy of tissue engineering. From a materials point of view, both the drug-delivery vehicles and tissue-engineering scaffolds need to be biocompatible and biodegradable. The biological functions of encapsulated drugs and cells can be dramatically enhanced by designing biomaterials with controlled organizations at the nanometer scale. This review summarizes the most recent development in utilizing nanostructured materials for applications in drug delivery and tissue engineering.
Biocompatibility and osteogenesis of biomimetic nano-hydroxyapatite/polyamide composite scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	In this study, we prepared nano-hydroxyapatite/polyamide (n-HA/PA) composite scaffolds utilizing thermally induced phase inversion processing technique. The macrostructure and morphology as well as mechanical strength of the scaffolds were characterized. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from bone marrow of neonatal rabbits were cultured, expanded and seeded on n-HA/PA scaffolds. The MSC/scaffold constructs were cultured for up to 7 days and the adhesion, proliferation and differentiation of MSCs into osteoblastic phenotype were determined using MTT assay, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and collagen type I (COL I) immunohistochemical staining and scanning electronic microscopy (SEM). The results confirm that n-HA/PA scaffolds are biocompatible and have no negative effects on the MSCs in vitro. To investigate the in vivo biocompatibility and osteogenesis of the composite scaffolds, both pure n-HA/PA scaffolds and MSC/scaffold constructs were implanted in rabbit mandibles and studied histologically and microradiographically. The results show that n-HA/PA composite scaffolds exhibit good biocompatibility and extensive osteoconductivity with host bone. Moreover, the introduction of MSCs to the scaffolds dramatically enhanced the efficiency of new bone formation, especially at the initial stage after implantation. In long term (more than 12 weeks implantation), however, the pure scaffolds show as good biocompatibility and osteogenesis as the hybrid ones. All these results indicate that the scaffolds fulfill the basic requirements of bone tissue engineering scaffold, and have the potential to be applied in orthopedic, reconstructive and maxillofacial surgery.
A comparison of tenocytes and mesenchymal stem cells for use in flexor tendon tissue engineering.	Tissue-engineered tendon grafts will meet an important clinical need. To engineer tendons, we used acellularized allogeneic tendon as scaffold material. To determine the ideal cell type to seed the scaffolds, we studied in vitro characteristics of epitenon tenocytes, tendon sheath fibroblasts, bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), and adipoderived mesenchymal stem cells (ASCs). Subsequently, we implanted reseeded acellularized tendons in vivo as flexor tendon grafts.
Embryonic stem cells for cardiac muscle engineering.	The aim of cardiac tissue engineering is twofold: (1) to provide three-dimensional cardiac tissue to restore the function of diseased hearts and (2) to develop improved test beds for target validation and substance screening. Both concepts have been successfully demonstrated by several groups using immature primary heart cells, but these cells are essentially postmitotic, precluding clinical and large-scale in vitro applications. Identification of a renewable cell source is therefore one of the key objectives in the field. Embryonic stem (ES) cells are attractive candidates because they can be propagated in large quantities, have a robust capacity to differentiate into cardiac myocytes, and can be obtained from humans. Classic isolation of ES cells from the inner cell mass is associated with destruction of the respective embryo. Thus, alternative technologies to generate stem cell lines with ES cell properties are inevitably called for. This review discusses the usefulness of ES cells in cardiac tissue engineering and alternative, embryo-sparing technologies to derive ES cells.
Nanoparticle technology in bone tissue engineering.	Nanotechnology has been increasingly utilized to enhance bone tissue engineering strategies. In particular, nanotechnology has been employed to overcome some of the current limitations associated with bone regeneration methods including insufficient mechanical strength of scaffold materials, ineffective cell growth and osteogenic differentiation at the defect site, as well as unstable and insufficient production of growth factors to stimulate bone cell growth. Among the tremendous technologies of nanoparticles in biological systems, we focus here on the three major nanoparticle research areas that have been developed to overcome these limitations and disadvantages: (a) the generation of nanoparticle-composite scaffolds to provide increased mechanical strength for bone graft, (b) the fabrication of nanofibrous scaffolds to support cell growth and differentiation through morphologically-favored architectures, and (c) the development of novel delivery and targeting systems of genetic material, especially those encoding osteogenic growth factors. These nanoparticle-based bone tissue engineering technologies possess a great potential to ensure the efficacy of clinical bone regeneration.
Adult mesenchymal stem cells and impaction grafting: a new clinical paradigm shift.	The demographic challenges of an increasingly aging population emphasize the need for innovative approaches to skeletal reconstruction to augment and repair skeletal tissue lost as a consequence of implant loosening, trauma, degeneration or in situations involving revision surgery requiring bone stock. These clinical imperatives to augment skeletal tissue loss have brought mesenchymal stem cells to the fore in combination with the emerging discipline of tissue engineering. To date, impaction bone grafting for revision hip surgery is a recognized technique to reconstitute bone utilizing morselized allograft to provide a good mechanical scaffold, although with little osteoinductive biological potential. This review details laboratory and clinical examples of a paradigm shift in the application of mesenchymal stem cells with allograft to produce a living composite using the principles of tissue engineering. This step change creates a composite that offers a biological and mechanical advantage over the current gold standard of allograft alone. This translation of tissue engineering concepts into clinical practice offers enormous input into the field of bone regeneration and has implications for translation and future change in skeletal orthopedic practice in an increasingly aging population.
Gene transfer strategies in tissue engineering.	Aiming for regeneration of severed or lost parts of the body, the combined application of gene therapy and tissue engineering has received much attention by regenerative medicine. Techniques of molecular biology can enhance the regenerative potential of a biomaterial by co-delivery of therapeutic genes, and several different strategies have been used to achieve that goal. Possibilities for application are many-fold and have been investigated to regenerate tissues such as skin, cartilage, bone, nerve, liver, pancreas and blood vessels. This review discusses advantages and problems encountered with the different gene delivery strategies as far as they relate to tissue engineering, analyses the positive aspects of polymeric gene delivery from matrices and discusses advances and future challenges of gene transfer strategies in selected tissues.
Treatment of patellofemoral cartilage defects utilizing a 3D collagen gel: two-year clinical results]	Here we present first clinical results of the treatment of patellofemoral cartilage lesions with a 3D collagen gel (CaReS).
Treatment of osteochondritis dissecans of the knee: one-step procedure with bone grafting and matrix-supported autologous chondrocyte transplantation]	The aim of this study was to establish and assess a one-step reconstruction procedure of deep osteochondral defects of the knee joint with bone grafting and matrix-supported autologous chondrocyte transplantation in osteochondritis dissecans.
Accelerated bonelike apatite growth on porous polymer/ceramic composite scaffolds in vitro.	Although biodegradable polymer/ceramic composite scaffolds can overcome the limitations of conventional ceramic bone substitutes, the osteogenic potential of these scaffolds needs to be further enhanced for efficient bone tissue engineering. In this study, bonelike apatite was efficiently coated onto the scaffold surface by using polymer/ceramic composite scaffolds instead of polymer scaffolds and by using an accelerated biomimetic process to enhance the osteogenic potential of the scaffold. The creation of bonelike, apatite-coated polymer scaffold was achieved by incubating the scaffolds in simulated body fluid (SBF). The apatite growth on porous poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid)/nanohydroxyapatite (PLGA/ HA) composite scaffolds was significantly faster than on porous PLGA scaffolds. In addition, the distribution of coated apatite was more uniform on PLGA/HA scaffolds than on PLGA scaffolds. After a 5-day incubation period, the mass of apatite coated onto PLGA/HA scaffolds incubated in 5 x SBF was 2.3-fold higher than PLGA/HA scaffolds incubated in 1 x SBF. Furthermore, when the scaffolds were incubated in 5 x SBF for 5 days, the mass of apatite coated onto PLGA/HA scaffolds was 4.5-fold higher than PLGA scaffolds. These results indicate that the biomimetic apatite coating can be accelerated by using a polymer/ceramic composite scaffold and concentrated SBF. When seeded with osteoblasts, the apatite-coated PLGA/HA scaffolds exhibited significantly higher cell growth, alkaline phosphatase activity, and mineralization in vitro compared to the apatite-coated PLGA scaffolds. Therefore, the apatite-coated PLGA/HA scaffolds may provide enhanced osteogenic potential when used as scaffold for bone tissue engineering.
Review: ex vivo engineering of living tissues with adult stem cells.	Adult stem cells have the potential to revolutionize regenerative medicine with their unique abilities to self-renew and differentiate into various phenotypes. This review examines progress and challenges in ex vivo tissue engineering with adult stem cells. These rare cells are harvested from a variety of tissues, including bone marrow, adipose, skeletal muscle, and placenta, and differentiate into cells of their own lineage and in some cases atypical lineages. Insight into the stem cell niche leads to the identification of matrix components, soluble factors, and physiological conditions that enhance the ex vivo amplification and differentiation of stem cells. Scaffolds composed of metals, naturally occurring materials, and synthetic polymers organize stem cells into complex spatial groupings that mimic native tissue. Cell signals from covalently bound ligands and slowly released regulatory factors in scaffolds direct stem cell fate. Future advances in stem cell biology and scaffold design will ultimately improve the efficacy of tissue substitutes as implants, in research, and as extracorporeal devices.
Design of a filamentous polymeric scaffold for in vivo guided angiogenesis.	Angiogenesis is mandatory for reperfusion of viable tissues, and lack of vascularization may cause ischemia. The increasing disparity between the demand and availability of adequate substitutes for small-diameter human blood vessels has prompted an intensive search for artificial materials or biological allograft tissues, both of which usually fail in the long term. The objective of this study was to pioneer a novel model for in vivo guided angiogenesis based on a specific design process of a filamentous polymeric scaffold with endothelial cells in a 3-dimensional culture system. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an in vivo guided angiogenesis approach based on a 2-step model, composed of endothelial cells and a filamentous polymeric scaffold framework. Endothelial cells that had been cultured on a specifically designed filamentous polymeric scaffold within a regulated dynamic tissue culture system were shown in vivo to induce guided angiogenesis. Cells seeded on a biodegradable polymeric scaffold were implanted into mice. On day 28 after implantation, analysis revealed a guided angiogenic process along the path of the implanted polymeric scaffold as well as initial evidence for early maturation of engineered vessels, allowing red blood cells to flow through the forming lumina of new vessels as the polymer degraded. The authors conclude that in vivo guided angiogenesis can be achieved by combining endothelial cells with biodegradable filamentous polymeric scaffolds and that this model can lay the cornerstone for vascular engineering and future development of clinically available protocols aimed to treat life-threatening cardiovascular conditions.
Adipose tissue engineering based on the controlled release of fibroblast growth factor-2 in a collagen matrix.	Adipose tissue forms when basement membrane extract (Matrigel) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) are added to our mouse tissue engineering chamber model. A mouse tumor extract, Matrigel is unsuitable for human clinical application, and finding an alternative to Matrigel is essential. In this study we generated adipose tissue in the chamber model without using Matrigel by controlled release of FGF-2 in a type I collagen matrix. FGF-2 was impregnated into biodegradable gelatin microspheres for its slow release. The chambers were filled with these microspheres suspended in 60 microL collagen gel. Injection of collagen containing free FGF-2 or collagen containing gelatin microspheres with buffer alone served as controls. When chambers were harvested 6 weeks after implantation, the volume and weight of the tissue obtained were higher in the group that received collagen and FGF-2 impregnated microspheres than in controls. Histologic analysis of tissue constructs showed the formation of de novo adipose tissue accompanied by angiogenesis. In contrast, control groups did not show extensive adipose tissue formation. In conclusion, this study has shown that de novo formation of adipose tissue can be achieved through controlled release of FGF-2 in collagen type I in the absence of Matrigel.
Evaluation of tissue-engineered vascular autografts.	This study evaluated the endothelial function and mechanical properties of tissue-engineered vascular autografts (TEVAs) constructed with autologous mononuclear bone marrow cells (MN-BMCs) and a biodegradable scaffold using a canine inferior vena cava (IVC) model. MN-BMCs were obtained from a dog and seeded onto a biodegradable tubular scaffold consisting of polyglycolide fiber and poly(L-lactide-co-epsilon-caprolactone) sponge. This scaffold was implanted in the IVC of the same dog on the day of surgery. TEVAs were analyzed biochemically, biomechanically, and histologically after implantation. When TEVAs were explanted and stimulated with acetylcholine at 1 month, they produced nitrates and nitrites dose dependently. N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester significantly inhibited these reactions. With stimulation by acetylcholine, factor VIII-positive cells of TEVAs produced endothelial nitric oxide synthase proteins, and the ratio of endothelial nitric oxide synthase/s17 mRNA was similar among native IVC and TEVAs 1 and 3 months after implantation. TEVAs had biochemical properties and wall thickness similar to those of native IVC at 6 months after implantation, and tolerated venous pressure well without any problems such as calcification. The number of inflammatory cells in TEVAs and the ratio of CD4/s17 mRNA decreased significantly with time. These results indicate that TEVAs are a biocompatible material with functional endothelial cells and biomechanical properties and do not have unwanted side effects.
Monitoring mesenchymal stromal cell developmental stage to apply on-time mechanical stimulation for ligament tissue engineering.	To evaluate the appropriate time frame for applying mechanical stimuli to induce mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) differentiation for ligament tissue engineering, developmental cell phenotypes were monitored during a period of in vitro culture. MSCs were seeded onto surface-modified silk fibroin fiber matrices and cultured in Petri dishes for 15 days. Cell metabolic activity, morphology, and gene expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins (collagen type I and III and fibronectin), ECM receptors (integrins alpha-2, alpha-5, and beta-1), and heat-shock protein 70 (HSP-70) were monitored during the culture of MSC. MSCs showed fluctuations in cell metabolic activity, ECM, integrin, and HSP-70 transcription potentially correlating to innate developmental processes. Cellular response to mechanical stimulation was dependent on the stage of cell development. At day 9, when levels of cell metabolic activity, ECM, integrin, and HSP-70 transcription peaked, mechanical stimulation increased MSC metabolic activity, alignment, and collagen production. Mechanical stimulation applied at day 1 and 3 showed detrimental effects on MSCs seeded on silk matrices. The results presented in this study identify a unique correlation between innate MSC development processes on a surface-modified silk matrix and dynamic environmental signaling.
Use of an in vitro model of tissue-engineered skin to investigate the mechanism of skin graft contraction.	Skin graft contraction leading to loss of joint mobility and cosmetic deformity remains a major clinical problem. In this study we used a tissue-engineered model of human skin, based on sterilized human adult dermis seeded with keratinocytes and fibroblasts, which contracts by up to 60% over 28 days in vitro, as a model to investigate the mechanism of skin contraction. Pharmacologic agents modifying collagen synthesis, degradation, and cross-linking were examined for their effect on contraction. Collagen synthesis and degradation were determined using immunoassay techniques. The results show that skin contraction was not dependent on inhibition of collagen synthesis or stimulation of collagen degradation, but was related to collagen remodelling. Thus, reducing dermal pliability with glutaraldehyde inhibited the ability of cells to contract the dermis. So did inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases and inhibition of lysyl oxidase-mediated collagen cross-linking, but not transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking. In summary, this in vitro model of human skin has allowed us to identify specific cross-linking pathways as possible pharmacologic targets for prevention of graft contracture in vivo.
In vitro liver tissue model established from transgenic mice: role of HIF-1alpha on hypoxic gene expression.	The instability of the hepatocyte phenotype in vitro has limited the ability to quantitatively investigate regulation of stress responses of the liver. Here, we adopt a tissue-engineering approach to form stable liver tissue in vitro by forming collagen "sandwich" cultures of transgenic murine hepatocytes harboring a regulatory gene of interest flanked by loxP sites. The floxed gene is excised in a subset of cultures by transfection with adenovirus carrying the gene for Cre-recombinase, thereby generating wild-type and null liver tissues from a single animal. In this study, we specifically investigated the role of hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) in the hepatocellular response to hypoxia. Using high-density oligonucleotide arrays, we examined genome-wide gene expression after 8 h of hypoxia in wild-type and HIF- 1alpha null hepatocyte cultures. We identified more than 130 genes differentially expressed under hypoxia involved in metabolic adaptation, angiogenic signaling, immediate early response, and cell cycle regulation. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis verified that known hypoxia-responsive genes such as glucose transporter-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor were induced in a HIF-1alpha-dependent manner under hypoxia. Our results demonstrate the potential to integrate in vitro tissue models with transgenic and microarray technologies for the study of physiologic stress responses.
Mechanical loading modulates the differentiation state of vascular smooth muscle cells.	The cause underlying the onset of stenosis after vascular reconstruction is not well understood. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of mechanical unloading on the differentiation state of human vascular smooth muscle cells (hVSMCs) using a tissue-engineered vascular media (TEVM). hVSMCs cultured in a mechanically loaded three-dimensional environment, known as a living tissue sheet, had a higher differentiated state than cells grown on plastic. When the living tissue sheet was detached from its support, the release of the residual stress resulted in a mechanical unloading and cells within the extracellular matrix (ECM) dedifferentiated as shown by downregulation of differentiation markers. The relaxed living tissue sheet can be rolled onto a tubular mandrel to form a TEVM. The rolling procedure resulted in the reintroduction of a mechanical load leading to a cohesive compacted tissue. During this period, cells gradually redifferentiated and aligned circumferentially to the tubular support. Our results suggest that differentiation of hVSMCs can be driven by mechanical loading and may occur simultaneously in the absence of other cell types. The extrapolation of our results to the clinical context suggests the hypothesis that hVSMCs may adopt a proliferative phenotype resulting from the mechanical unloading of explanted blood vessels during vascular reconstruction. Therefore, we propose that this mechanical unloading may play an important role in the onset of vascular graft stenosis.
Effect of a synthetic extracellular matrix on vocal fold lamina propria gene expression in early wound healing.	An improved understanding of molecular response in the vocal folds to a synthetic extracellular matrix (sECM) during early wound repair is essential for understanding functional improvement of the tissue and implementation of future tissue-engineering strategies. The present study used real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to measure transcript expression of selected markers (procollagen alpha 2 type I, fibronectin, fibromodulin, hyaluronan synthase 2, and hyaluronidase 2) in 20 rabbits that underwent vocal fold biopsy bilaterally. After the biopsy, Carbylan-GSX 5% was injected immediately into the left vocal fold, and saline was injected into the right vocal fold. Two unwounded normal rabbit larynges were also harvested. Animals were sacrificed at days 1, 3, 5, and 10 post-surgery. At days 1, 3, and 10, no significant differences were found between the Carbylan-GSX-treated and saline-treated groups. At day 5, significant differences in procollagen (p = 0.02), fibronectin (p = 0.02), and transforming growth factor beta1 (p = 0.02) between the Carbylan-GSX-treated and saline-treated groups were measured. The presence of a sECM in the wound bed during the early stages of repair amplified the normal rabbit vocal fold wound-healing response over a short period of time. This amplification provided an optimal environment for tissue regeneration and may lead to the recovery of the functional biomechanical properties of the vocal folds necessary for voice production.
Growth factor modulation of fibroblast proliferation, differentiation, and invasion: implications for tissue valve engineering.	We have previously shown that transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) stimulates transdifferentiation of fibroblasts into smooth muscle alpha-actin (alpha-SMA) positive myofibroblasts. However, TGF-beta, as such, is unsuitable for effective population of a heart valve matrix, because it dose-dependently inhibits growth of fibroblasts. The aim of this study was to investigate combinations of other growth factors with TGF-beta to stimulate the proliferation of suitably differentiated cells and to enhance their invasion into aortic valve matrices. Human dermal mesenchymal cells (hDMC1.1) were treated with combinations of growth factors to stimulate these cells to trans-differentiate into myofibroblasts, to proliferate, and to invade. Growth factors were chosen after expression of their respective receptors was confirmed in hDMC1.1 using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. We combined TGF-beta with several growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1, IGF-2), epidermal growth factor (EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, and PDGFAB). Nuclear Ki67 staining, MTT assay, and cell counting revealed that only EGF and bFGF were capable of overcoming TGF-beta-induced growth inhibition. However, bFGF but not EGF inhibited TGF-beta-induced alpha-SMA expression, as evidenced by immuno-cytochemistry and Western blotting. A growth factor cocktail (TGF-beta, EGF, bFGF) has been established that maintains TGF-beta-induced trans-differentiation but overcomes TGF-beta-induced growth inhibition while stimulating fibroblast proliferation and invasion.
Cartilage-like tissue engineering using silk scaffolds and mesenchymal stem cells.	Silk fibroin scaffolds were studied as a new biomaterial option for tissue-engineered cartilage-like tissue. Human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were seeded on silk, collagen, and crosslinked collagen scaffolds and cultured for 21 days in serum-free chondrogenic medium. Cells proliferated more rapidly on the silk fibroin scaffolds than on the collagen matrices. The total content of glycosaminoglycan deposition was three times higher on silk as compared to collagen scaffolds. Glycosaminoglycan deposition coincided with overexpression of collagen type II and aggrecan genes. Cartilage-like tissue was homogeneously distributed throughout the entire silk scaffolds, while on the collagen and crosslinked collagen systems tissue formation was restricted to the outer rim, leaving a doughnut appearance. Round or angular-shaped cells resided in deep lacunae in the silk systems and stained positively for collagen type II. The aggregate modulus of the tissue-engineered cartilage constructs was more than 2-fold higher than that of the unseeded silk scaffold controls. These results suggest that silk fibroin scaffolds are suitable biomaterial substrates for autologous cartilage tissue engineering in serum-free medium and enable mechanical improvements along with compositional features suitable for durable implants to generate or regenerate cartilage.
Tissue-engineered follicles produce live, fertile offspring.	Oocytes grown in vitro are of low quality and yield few live births, thus limiting the ability to store or bank the ova of women wishing to preserve their fertility. We applied tissue engineering principles to the culture of immature mouse follicles by designing an alginate hydrogel matrix to maintain the oocyte's 3- dimensional (3D) architecture and cell-cell interactions in vitro. A 3D culture mimics the in vivo follicle environment, and hydrogel-encapsulated follicles develop mature oocytes within the capacity for fertilization similar to that of oocytes matured in vivo. Embryos derived from cultured oocytes fertilized in vitro and transferred to pseudopregnant female mice were viable, and both male and female offspring were fertile. Our results demonstrate that alginate hydrogel-based 3D in vitro culture of follicles permits normal growth and development of follicles and oocytes. This system creates new opportunities for discovery in follicle biology and establishes a core technology for human egg banks for preservation of fertility.
Modulations of 17-beta estradiol on osteogenic and adipogenic differentiations of human mesenchymal stem cells.	Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising cell source for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine applications. However, effective regulation to improve differentiation potentials of MSCs plays a critical role in promoting successful tissue formation. Because estrogen has been demonstrated to modulate tissue and organ development and differentiation, we hypothesized that adding estrogen could effectively improve the multiple differentiation potentials of human bone marrow MSCs in vitro. In the present study, 17-beta estradiol (E2) was investigated for in vitro osteogenic and adipogenic differentiations of MSCs isolated from a healthy male human donor. After MSCs were exposed to osteogenic differentiation medium supplemented with E2 at different concentrations, osteocalcin expression is upregulated and calcium deposition (21.0%) is significantly improved ( p < 0.01; n = 4). Under adipogenic stimulation, E2 increased 35.4% lipid accumulations more than that of the group without the E2 supplement ( p < 0.01; n = 4). Estrogen's effect on osteogenesis occurs via estrogen receptors (ER)-alpha and -beta, whereas the effect on adipogenesis is through ER-alpha. Estrogen's regulation of differentiations of MSCs is dose dependent. The present study indicated that estrogen could potentially improve the role of MSCs in tissue engineering and regeneration by serving as a modulator of differentiation.
Biomechanical and magnetic resonance characteristics of a cartilage-like equivalent generated in a suspension culture.	To generate a cartilage biomaterial using a suspension culture with biophysical properties similar to native articular cartilage.
Magnetic resonance imaging of ferumoxide-labeled mesenchymal stem cells seeded on collagen scaffolds-relevance to tissue engineering.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising candidate cell for tissue engineering. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been proven effective in visualizing iron-labeled stem cells; however, the efficiency of this approach for visualization of cells seeded on scaffolds intended for use as tissue-engineered heart valves has not been assessed. MSCs were labeled by incubating for 48 h with ferumoxide and poly-L-lysine as transfecting agent. Any detrimental effect of iron labeling on cell viability, proliferation, and differentiation was examined using appropriate functional assays. Change in the nuclear magnetic relaxation properties of labeled cells was determined using in vitro relaxometry of cells seeded in 3-dimensional collagen gels. Images of labeled and non-labeled cells seeded onto 1% type I bovine collagen scaffolds were obtained using MRI. The presence of intracellular iron in labeled cells was demonstrated using Prussian blue staining, confocal microscopy, and electron microscopy. Cell viability, proliferation, and differentiation were comparable in labeled and non-labeled cells. The T2 relaxation time was 40% to 50% shorter in ferumoxide-labeled cells. Labeled cells seeded on scaffolds appeared as areas of reduced signal intensity in T2 weighted images. Ferumoxide labeling persisted and remained effective even on scans performed 4 weeks after the labeling procedure. Ferumoxide labeling of human MSCs seeded on collagen scaffolds is an effective, non-toxic technique for visualization of these cells using MRI. This technique appears promising for cell tracking in future tissue-engineering applications.
Templated agarose scaffolds support linear axonal regeneration.	While several strategies can stimulate axonal regeneration within a site of spinal cord injury, the growth of axons is generally disorganized and random. Biocompatible scaffolds that guide and maintain the native organization of axons regenerating through an injury site could be of importance in enhancing recovery of the nervous system after injury. Here we report a novel fabrication process for templated agarose nerve guidance scaffolds composed of uniaxial channels of precise diameter and wall thickness extending through their full length. When tested in an in vivo model of spinal cord injury, scaffolds exhibit excellent integration with host tissue and support linear axonal growth through their channels. Further, when loaded with bone marrow stromal cells genetically engineered to secrete brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the number of linear penetrating axons is significantly enhanced. The templating process can be useful in fabricating nerve guidance scaffolds for both central and peripheral nerve injuries, or any materials application requiring a precise array of linearly oriented channels.
Strategies to promote chondrogenesis and osteogenesis from human bone marrow cells and articular chondrocytes encapsulated in polysaccharide templates.	The aim of this study was to synthesize functional in vitro and in vivo 3-dimensional (3D) constructs using a mix of human mesenchymal populations and articular chondrocytes encapsulated in biomineralized polysaccharide templates. Single-cell-type populations or mixtures of both cell types were encapsulated in alginate/chitosan and cultured within a rotating-bioreactor, perfused bioreactor system, or static conditions for 28 days. Within single cell-type populations, type II collagen immunopositive cells were present within lacunae in rotating-bioreactor capsules, with an increased proportion of metabolically active cells compared with perfused and static constructs. Biochemical analysis indicated significantly increased ( p < 0.05) DNA and protein in rotating-bioreactor conditions compared with perfused or static. However, in coculture samples, DNA and protein was significantly increased in static cultures owing to the formation of large regions of partially mineralized osteoid. This osteoid was found only in static cultures and when the ratio of human bone marrow cells to chondrocytes was 2:1 or, to a lesser extent, 5:1 ratio capsules. Subcutaneous implantation of capsules into immunocompromised mice also showed optimal osteoid formation when the ratio was 2:1. The current studies demonstrate the pivotal role of robust 3D biomimetic microenvironments and indicate the potential to harness the interactions between different cell types to create specific tissues.
Multilineage differentiation potential of stem cells derived from human dental pulp after cryopreservation.	The current study aimed to prove that human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs) isolated from the pulp of third molars can show multilineage differentiation after cryopreservation. First, hDPSC were isolated via enzymatic procedures, and frozen in liquid nitrogen until use. After defrosting, cells were analyzed for proliferative potential and the expression of the stem cell marker STRO-1. Subsequently, cells were cultured in neurogenic, osteogenic/odontogenic, adipogenic, myogenic, and chondrogenic inductive media, and analyzed on basis of morphology, immunohistochemistry, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for specific marker genes. All data were replicated, and the results of the primary cells were compared to similar tests with an additional primary dental pulp stem cell strain, obtained from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Results showed that our cell population could be maintained for at least 25 passages. The existence of stem/ progenitor cells in both cell strains was proven by the STRO-1 staining. Under the influence of the 5 different media, both cell strains were capable to advance into all 5 differentiation pathways. Still differences between both strains were found. In general, our primary culture performed better in myogenic differentiation, while the externally obtained cells were superior in the odontogenic/osteogenic and chondrogenic differentiation pathways. In conclusion, the pulp tissue of the third molar may serve as a suitable source of multipotent stem cells for future tissue engineering strategies and cell-based therapies, even after cryopreservation.
Antioxidant functionality in hepatocytes using the enhanced collagen extracellular matrix under different oxygen tensions.	Improvement of O(2) supply in bioartificial liver devices remains a critical issue in maintaining hepatocyte viability and functions. Therefore, the current study investigates whether enhanced oxygen (O(2)) transport through collagen extracellular matrix (ECM) can produce a more stable antioxidant defense in different O(2) tensions during prolonged incubation times. Total glutathione concentration of cultured hepatocytes in enhanced ECM was significantly higher than in normal ECM under the lowest O(2) tension phase (2.60mm of thickness from O(2) source), and was also significantly increased in 0.52 mm transport distance of hypoxia as compared to normoxic conditions. Catalase and glutathione reductase activities for hepatocytes within enhanced ECM were also significantly preserved relative to their values for the normal collagen ECM. Specifically, the enhanced ECM produced higher activities at a further transport distance (1.56 mm) from the O(2) source at the 24 h time-point, and remained higher up to the 96 h incubation time. In contrast, the glutathione peroxidase activities in both collagen ECM systems were similar. Hepatocyte viability in the enhanced ECM system was also consistently greater than that for normal ECM. These results suggest that the O(2) enhanced collagen ECM preserves the antioxidant defense system as compared to normal collagen ECM, ostensibly via increased micropathways for O(2) transport to the hepatocytes.
Imaging human bone marrow stem cell morphogenesis in polyglycolic acid scaffold by multiphoton microscopy.	The noninvasive imaging of tissue engineering constructs is vital for understanding the physiological changes in construct formation and the design of improved products for therapeutic purposes. In this work, we use the combination of multiphoton autofluorescence and second harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy to image the physiological changes to the engineered constructs of human mesenchymal stem cells seeded in a polyglycolic acid (PGA) scaffold under induction by chondrogenic transforming growth factor-beta3. Without histological procedures, we found that multiphoton autofluorescence is useful for imaging the PGA scaffold and stem cells while SHG is useful for following the progress of extracellular matrix (ECM) formation. We found that the initial ECM formation tends to align along the PGA scaffold orientation and progressive induction alters the scaffold conformation, indicating that biomechanical forces or the chemical environment generated by chondrogenesis is sufficient for scaffold reorganization. Our results suggest that in the future this approach may be used for real-time monitoring of the physiological processes associated with tissue engineering.
Differential expression pattern of extracellular matrix molecules during chondrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells from bone marrow and adipose tissue.	Adipose-derived adult stem cells (ADASCs) or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are considered as alternative cell sources for cell-based cartilage repair due to their ability to produce cartilage-specific matrix. This article addresses the differential expression pattern of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules in BMSCs or ADASCs following chondrogenic differentiation. Human BMSCs or ADASCs were encapsulated in alginate and cultured in TGF-beta1-containing medium for 2 or 3 weeks. Chondrospecific mRNA expression was analyzed and alternative splicing of alpha(1)-procollagen type II mRNA was monitored via reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Corresponding ECM synthesis was demonstrated using immunohistochemistry. After chondroinduction, expression of collagen type II, type X, COMP and aggrecan mRNA was 3-15-fold higher than in ADASCs. The type IIA splicing form of alpha(1)-procollagen type II was expressed in both populations, and the type IIB splicing form was exclusively detected in BMSCs. In response to TGF-beta, collagen type II and X were secreted more strongly by BMSCs than by ADASCs. BMSCs express a more mature phenotype than ADASCs after chondroinduction. TGF-beta1 induces alternative splicing of the alpha(1)-procollagen type II transcript in BMSCs, but not in ADASCs. These findings may direct the development of a cell-specific culture environment either to prevent hypertrophy in BMSCs or to promote chondrogenic maturation in ADASCs.
In vivo osteogenic differentiation of rat bone marrow stromal cells in thermosensitive MPEG-PCL diblock copolymer gels.	Methoxy poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (MPEG-PCL) diblock copolymers were prepared by ring-opening polymerization and their phase transition behavior characterized as a function of temperature. The MPEG-PCL solutions formed a sol at room temperature, and underwent sol-to-gel followed by gel-to-sol phase transitions as the temperature was increased. The temperature range over which the solutions were in a gel state could be extended simply by increasing the PCL chain length in the diblock copolymer. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of MPEG-PCL solutions in the sol and gel states revealed near-regular and irregular porous structures, respectively. in vitro culture of rat bone marrow stromal cells (rBMSCs) on gel surfaces exhibited mostly round cells after 1 day of incubation. SEM images of the attached cells clearly showed the cell body and anchoring filopodia. Injection of room-temperature diblock copolymer solutions into Sprague-Dawley rats produced a gel at body temperature. In situ gel-forming scaffolds in vivo were successfully fabricated by simple subcutaneous injection of MPEG-PCL diblock copolymer solutions. The gel implants retained their original shape for 4 weeks without in- flammation at the injection site. Gel implants removed after 4 weeks were found to be surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule consisting of fibroblasts and blood vessels cells. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and von Kossa staining revealed bone formation in gel implants containing both rBMSCs and dexamethasone, with the degree of bone formation increasing markedly with increasing dexamethasone concentration. Thus, our results show that in situ gel scaffolds fabricated from MPEG-PCL diblock copolymer solutions containing dexamethasone enable multipotent rBMSCs to produce viable bone when injected into rats.
Mesenchymal stem cells enhance angiogenesis in mechanically viable prevascularized tissues via early matrix metalloproteinase upregulation.	Angiogenesis, the sprouting of new blood vessels from existing vasculature, is a complex biological process of interest to both the treatment of numerous pathologies and the creation of thick engineered tissues. In the context of tissue engineering, one potential solution to the diffusion limitation is to create a vascular network in vitro that can subsequently anastomose with the host after implantation, allowing the implantation of thicker, more complex tissues. In this study, the ability of endothelial cells to sprout and form stable vascular networks in 3-dimensional (3D) fibrin matrices was investigated as a function of matrix density in a prevascularized tissue model. The results demonstrate that while increasing matrix density leads to a nearly 7-fold increase in compressive stiffness, vascular sprouting is virtually eliminated in the most dense matrix condition. However, the addition of human mesenchymal stem cells (HMSCs) to the denser matrices reverses this effect, resulting in an up to a 7-fold increase in network formation. Although the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) MMP-2, MMP-9, and MT1-MMP are all upregulated early on with the addition of HMSCs, MT1-MMP appears to play a particularly important role in the observed angiogenic response among these proteases. This study provides a means to design stiffer prevascularized tissues utilizing naturally derived substrates, and its results may yield new mechanistic insights into stem cell-based angiogenic therapies.
Gene expression profiling reveals platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha as a target of cell contact-dependent gene regulation in an endothelial cell-osteoblast co-culture model.	Angiogenesis plays an important role in bone development, repair, and remodelling. Neovascularization is furthermore a crucial step in bone tissue engineering because implantation of voluminous grafts without sufficient vascularity results in hypoxic cell death of the engineered tissue. We have previously described a co-cultivation system of human primary osteoblasts and human primary endothelial cells that was developed to improve neovascularization in bone tissue-engineering applications. In our present study, we have performed complementary deoxyribonucleic acid microarray analysis to analyze putative changes in osteoblastic gene expression upon co-cultivation of osteoblasts and endothelial cells. Transcriptional profiling revealed upregulation of 79 genes and downregulation of 62 genes in osteoblasts after co-cultivation with endothelial cells. To verify the microarray data, quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was carried out on selected genes. The expression of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha gene in osteoblasts was analyzed in more detail, revealing that a cell contact-dependent mechanism, and not paracrine-acting diffusible factors, mediates the downregulation of this receptor in osteoblasts upon co-cultivation with endothelial cells. In summary, the data demonstrate complex gene-regulation mechanisms between endothelial cells and osteoblasts that are likely to play a role in bone morphogenesis.
Sequential growth factor stimulation of bone marrow stromal cells in extended culture.	The sequence of applied biochemical stimulation in developing ligament tissue cultures in vitro offers the potential to intricately control cell behavior following the template of native tissue development. Previous studies have identified and enhanced ligament tissue development as defined by matrix in-growth, upregulation of mRNA transcripts for metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), collagen types I and III, and collagen type I production. We hypothesize that sequential application of growth factors through extended culture will reinforce the effectiveness of basic fibroblast growth factor and transforming growth factor beta (bFGF/TGF-beta) as the optimal growth factor regimen. Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) were seeded on RGD-coupled silk fiber matrices and cultured in bFGF, epidermal growth factor (EGF), or growth factor-free control for the first 5 days of culture. On day 5, cultures were stimulated with TGF-beta supplemented medium for a total of 28 days. Results indicated enhanced matrix in-growth and collagen type I produced with extended culture, most notably in mitogen / TGF-beta-stimulated cultures. Matrix development attained through extended static culture will support future study leading to the transition and addition of mechanical stimulation for optimized ligament tissue production.
Interleukin-1beta increases elasticity of human bioartificial tendons.	Stiffness is an important mechanical property of connective tissues, especially for tissues subjected to cyclic strain in vivo, such as tendons. Therefore, modulation of material properties of native or engineered tissues is an important consideration for tissue repair. Interleukin 1-beta (IL-1beta) is a cytokine most often associated in connective tissues with induction of matrix metalloproteinases and matrix destruction. However, IL-1beta may also be involved in constructive remodeling and confer a cell survival value to tenocytes. In this study, we investigated the effects of IL-1beta on the properties of human tenocyte-populated bioartificial tendons (BATs) fabricated in a novel three-dimensional (3D) culture system. IL-1beta treatment reduced the ultimate tensile strength and elastic modulus of BATs and increased the maximum strain. IL-1beta at low doses (1, 10 pM) upregulated elastin expression and at a high dose (100 pM) downregulated type I collagen expression. Matrix metalloproteinases, which are involved in matrix remodeling, were also upregulated by IL-1beta. The increased elasticity prevented BATs from rupture caused by applied strain. The results in this study suggest that IL-1beta may act as a defense/survival factor in response to applied mechanical loading. The balance between cell intrinsic strain and external matrix strain is important for maintaining the integrity of tendons.
Inhibition of histone acetylation as a tool in bone tissue engineering.	Our approach to bone tissue engineering is the in vitro expansion and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and their subsequent implantation on porous ceramic materials. Current osteogenic differentiation protocols use dexamethasone to initiate the osteogenic process, thus ignoring the multiple signaling pathways that control osteogenesis in vivo. Supporting osteogenesis at multiple stages might further enhance the bone-forming capacity of hMSCs. As reported previously, inhibition of so-called histone deacetylases (HDACs) stimulates osteoblast maturation, and in this report, we investigated whether trichostatin A (TSA), a widely used HDAC inhibitor, can be implemented in bone tissue engineering. We confirmed that TSA treatment of hMSCs results in increased expression of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) with concomitant increase in mineralization. Flow cytometry demonstrated that TSA increases the percentage of ALP-positive hMSCs as well as their average ALP expression level, but the robustness of the response differs between donors. Unfortunately, TSA has a profound negative effect on cell proliferation, so we investigated whether hMSCs respond to TSA after reaching confluence. Confluent hMSCs on tissue culture plastic displayed enhanced ALP expression. Therefore, we seeded TSA-treated hMSCs onto ceramic particles and analyzed ectopic bone formation upon implantation in immune-deficient mice. Unfortunately, TSA-treated hMSCs did not display better bone formation in vivo than control cells. Finally, we observed that TSA treatment strongly enhanced bone formation of ex vivo cultured mouse calvaria, which warrants further exploration of TSA in bone tissue engineering.
Re-engineering primary epithelial cells from rhesus monkey parotid glands for use in developing an artificial salivary gland.	There is no satisfactory conventional treatment for patients who experience irreversible salivary gland damage after therapeutic radiation for head and neck cancer or because of Sjgren's syndrome. Additionally, if most parenchyma is lost, these patients also are not candidates for evolving gene transfer strategies. To help such patients, several years ago we began to develop an artificial salivary gland. In the present study, we used a non-human primate tissue source, parotid glands from rhesus monkeys, to obtain potential autologous graft cells for development of a prototype device for in situ testing. Herein, we present 3 major findings. First, we show that primary cultures of rhesus parotid gland (RPG) cells are capable of attaining a polarized orientation, with Na(+)/K(+)-adenosine triphosphatase, zonula occludens-1, and claudin-1 distributed in specific domains appropriate for epithelial cells. Second, we show that RPG cells exhibit 2 essential epithelial functions required for graft cells in an artificial salivary gland device (i.e., an effective barrier to paracellular water flow and the generation of a moderate transepithelial electrical resistance). Third, we show that RPG cells can express functional water channels, capable of mediating directional fluid movement, after transduction by adenoviral and adeno-associated virus type 2 vectors. Together these results demonstrate that it is feasible to individually prepare RPG cells for eventual use in a prototype artificial salivary gland.
Elevated hepatocyte-specific functions in fetal rat hepatocytes co-cultured with adult rat hepatocytes.	Fetal hepatocytes (FHEPs) are a potential source of highly proliferative transplantable cells but express low levels of liver-specific functions. We hypothesized that the microenvironment of adult hepatocytes (AHEPs) may upregulate these functions. Primary FHEPs were seeded on top of collagen-sandwiched AHEPs directly or separated by a porous transwell membrane insert. In direct co-cultures, albumin (ALB) secretion, urea synthesis, and cytochrome P450 (CytP450) activity were all approximately 2 times as high as the sum of the corresponding monocultures. Using a transwell porous insert led to similar results, suggesting a major role for soluble factors. When AHEPs and FHEPs were separated after co-culture, they both initially showed significantly higher ALB secretion than control monocultures, whereas urea synthesis was significantly lower for the FHEPs only. Functions of previously co-cultured FHEPs normalized over the course of a week, but AHEP function remained high even after separation. In conclusion, co-culturing AHEPs with FHEPs increases expression of liver-specific functions in both cell types. The effect on FHEPs, but not AHEPs, was reversible. Unraveling the underlying mechanisms and optimizing this phenomenon will be useful in making fetal liver cells a potential cell source for hepatic tissue-engineering applications.
A comparison of tissue-engineered hyaluronic acid dermal matrices in a human wound model.	The derivatives of hyaluronic acid (hyaluronan) have been extensively studied in the field of tissue engineering. Several forms of the material are available (benzyl esters of hyaluronic acid, HYAFF), with differing degradation profiles. This study compared 2 such products used for dermal regeneration (HYAFF p80 and HYAFF p100, the partial and total benzyl ester of hyaluronan, respectively), in a human model. In a prospective, randomized, controlled trial, 20 tattoos were tangentially excised and 1 of 2 hyaluronic acid-derived dermal matrices were applied to the wound bed. The partial ester was changed after 1 week and the total ester was kept for 2 weeks. After 2 weeks, cultured epidermal autograft was applied using the Laserskin method. Wounds were subsequently assessed by several modalities and by such features as rate of epithelialization, wound contraction, and histologic and immunohistologic appearances. Subtle differences were seen between the 2 groups, indicating that the total ester, which showed better clinical performance, could be used, especially in burns. This has the advantage of a single application for a 2-week period, rather than the comparison material, a partial ester, which requires weekly changing and degrades faster. Further, the method of epidermal grafting with a dermal substitute shows excellent results and adds to the armory for the treatment of both chronic and acute wounds.
Engineering complex tissues.	This article summarizes the views expressed at the third session of the workshop "Tissue Engineering--The Next Generation," which was devoted to the engineering of complex tissue structures. Antonios Mikos described the engineering of complex oral and craniofacial tissues as a "guided interplay" between biomaterial scaffolds, growth factors, and local cell populations toward the restoration of the original architecture and function of complex tissues. Susan Herring, reviewing osteogenesis and vasculogenesis, explained that the vascular arrangement precedes and dictates the architecture of the new bone, and proposed that engineering of osseous tissues might benefit from preconstruction of an appropriate vasculature. Jennifer Elisseeff explored the formation of complex tissue structures based on the example of stratified cartilage engineered using stem cells and hydrogels. Helen Lu discussed engineering of tissue interfaces, a problem critical for biological fixation of tendons and ligaments, and the development of a new generation of fixation devices. Rita Kandel discussed the challenges related to the re-creation of the cartilage-bone interface, in the context of tissue engineered joint repair. Frederick Schoen emphasized, in the context of heart valve engineering, the need for including the requirements derived from "adult biology" of tissue remodeling and establishing reliable early predictors of success or failure of tissue engineered implants. Mehmet Toner presented a review of biopreservation techniques and stressed that a new breakthrough in this field may be necessary to meet all the needs of tissue engineering. David Mooney described systems providing temporal and spatial regulation of growth factor availability, which may find utility in virtually all tissue engineering and regeneration applications, including directed in vitro and in vivo vascularization of tissues. Anthony Atala offered a clinician's perspective for functional tissue regeneration, and discussed new biomaterials that can be used to develop new regenerative technologies.
Translation from research to applications.	The article summarizes the collective views expressed at the fourth session of the workshop Tissue Engineering--the Next Generation, which was devoted to the translation of results of tissue engineering research into applications. Ernst Hunziker described the paradigm of a dual translational approach, and argued that tissue engineering should be guided by the dimensions and physiological setting of the bodily compartment to be repaired. Myron Spector discussed collagen-glycosaminoglycan (GAG) scaffolds for musculoskeletal tissue engineering. Jeanette Libera focused on the biological and clinical aspects of cartilage tissue engineering, and described a completely autologous procedure for engineering cartilage using the patient's own chondrocytes and blood serum. Arthur Gertzman reviewed the applications of allograft tissues in orthopedic surgery, and outlined the potential of allograft tissues as models for biological and medical studies. Savio Woo discussed a list of functional tissue engineering approaches designed to restore the biochemical and biomechanical properties of injured ligaments and tendons to be closer to that of the normal tissues. Specific examples of using biological scaffolds that have chemoattractants as well as growth factors with unique contact guidance properties to improve their healing process were shown. Anthony Ratcliffe discussed the translation of the results of research into products that are profitable and meet regulatory requirements. Michael Lysaght challenged the proposition that commercial and clinical failures of early tissue engineering products demonstrate a need for more focus on basic research. Arthur Coury described the evolution of tissue engineering products based on the example of Genzyme, and how various definitions of success and failure can affect perceptions and policies relative to the status and advancement of the field of tissue engineering.
Effects of growth factors on extracellular matrix production by vocal fold fibroblasts in 3-dimensional culture.	Culturing cells in 3-dimensional (3D) systems is important in tissue engineering and in fundamental studies of cellular mechanisms that are sensitive or specific to the 3D environment. To guide the engineering of artificial vocal fold lamina propria tissue, we developed 3D cultures containing human vocal fold fibroblasts (hVFFs) dispersed in a synthetic peptide hydrogel matrix. Growth factors were added to the culture to examine their influence on extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis, cell proliferation, and matrix contraction. The hVFF-hydrogel constructs were treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), or hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and the culture was maintained for 21 days. TGF-beta1 induced matrix contraction and enhanced collagen and sulfated glycosaminoglycan production, bFGF effectively increased cell proliferation, and HGF stimulated synthesis of hyaluronic acid and elastin with less collagen accumulation than other conditions. Of the growth factors tested, HGF appears to be most useful for stimulating essential tissue components for restoring vocal fold pliability. The results also suggest that multiple growth factors might be employed sequentially or in combination to program the makeup of cell-hydrogel constructs for vocal fold tissue repair.
Construction of tissue engineered bone by osteoblasts from canine bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and Bio-Oss: an in vitro study]	Using the MSCs-Bio-Oss tissue engineered bone which was constructed by MSCs as seed cells and the Bio-Oss calf inorganic bone grains as scaffold materials to determine the canine bone formation activity and the feasibility of Bio-Oss combined MSCs to construct tissue engineered bone.
Biomimetic self-assembling peptides as injectable scaffolds for hard tissue engineering.	The production of bone-, dentine- and enamel-like biomaterials for the engineering of mineralized (hard) tissues is a high-priority in regenerative medicine and dentistry. An emerging treatment approach involves the use of short biomimetic peptides that self-assemble to form micrometer-long nanofibrils with well defined surface chemistry and periodicity that display specific arrays of functional groups capable of mineral nucleation. The fibrils also give rise to dynamically stable 3D scaffold gels for the potential control of crystal disposition and growth. Peptides can also be injected in their monomeric fluid state, with subsequent self-assembly and gelation in situ triggered by physiological conditions. In this way, they can infiltrate and self-assemble within irregular or microscopic cavities, for restorative treatment of bone defects, dentinal hypersensitivity or dental decay. Cell adhesion and proliferation is also supported by these scaffolds, offering further advantages for applications in hard tissue engineering. These self-assembling matrices also provide well defined model systems that can contribute greatly to the elucidation of the biological mechanisms of protein-mediated biomineralization.
Novel surface patterning approaches for tissue engineering and their effect on cell behavior.	Methods for the creation of specially designed surfaces for use in the preparation of tailor-made tissue constructs with the ultimate aim of tissue engineering are reviewed here. Fundamental aspects of cell adhesion, proliferation and differentiation and the parameters involved in these processes are discussed. A survey of recent micro- and nano-technological methods for creating physical and chemical cues on tissue engineering carriers is presented. This overview is supported with data from the literature on various applications of different cells on materials with widely differing chemistries and physical properties. Interactions between different cell types and micro- and nano-fabricated substrates are summarized.
Bone regeneration: molecular and cellular interactions with calcium phosphate ceramics.	Calcium phosphate bioceramics are widely used in orthopedic and dental applications and porous scaffolds made of them are serious candidates in the field of bone tissue engineering. They have superior properties for the stimulation of bone formation and bone bonding, both related to the specific interactions of their surface with the extracellular fluids and cells, ie, ionic exchanges, superficial molecular rearrangement and cellular activity.
Increased osteoblast adhesion on nanoparticulate crystalline hydroxyapatite functionalized with KRSR.	The present in vitro study created nanometer crystalline hydroxyapatite (HA) and amorphous calcium phosphate for novel orthopedic applications. Specifically, nano-crystalline HA and amorphous calcium phosphate nanoparticles were synthesized by a wet chemical process followed by hydrothermal treatment for 2 hours at 200 degrees C and 70 degrees C, respectively. Resulting particles were then pressed into compacts. For the preparation of control conventional HA particles (or those currently used in orthopedics with micron diameters), the aforementioned calcium phosphate particles were pressed into compacts and sintered at 1100 degrees C for 2 hours. All calcium phosphate-based particles were fully characterized. Results showed that although there was an initial weight gain for all the compacts studied in this experiment, higher eventual degradation rates up to 3 weeks were observed for nano-amorphous calcium phosphate compared with nano-crystalline HA which was higher than conventional HA. Peptide functionalization (with the cell adhesive peptide lysine-arginine-serine-arginine [KRSR] and the non-cell-adhesive peptide lysine-serine-arginine-arginine [KSRR]) was accomplished by means of a three-step reaction procedure: silanization with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES), cross-linking with N-succinimidyl-3-maleimido propionate (SMP), and finally peptide immobilization. The peptide functionalization was fully characterized. Results demonstrated increased osteoblast (bone-forming cell) adhesion on non-functionalized and functionalized nano-crystalline HA compacts compared with nano amorphous calcium phosphate compacts; both increased osteoblast adhesion compared with conventional HA. To further exemplify the novel properties of nano crystalline HA, results also showed similar osteoblast adhesion between non-functionalized nano crystalline HA and KRSR functionalized conventional HA. Thus, results provided evidence that nanocrystalline HA should be further studied for orthopedic applications.
Nano-hydroxyapatite-thermally denatured small intestine sub-mucosa composites for entheses applications.	The objective of the present in vitro study was to estimate the adhesion strength of nanometer crystalline hydroxyapatite (HA)-small intestine sub-mucosa (SIS) composites on model implant surfaces. Techniques of thermal denaturation (60 degrees C, 20 min) of SIS were used to enhance the adhesion strength of entheses materials to underlying implants. Specifically, results indicated that the adhesion strength of thermally denatured SIS was 2-3 times higher than that for normal unheated SIS. In addition, aqua-sonicated, hydrothermally treated nano-HA dispersions enhanced the adhesion strength of SIS on implant surfaces. Importantly, results of the present study demonstrated that human skeletal muscle cell (hSkMC) numbers were not affected by thermally denaturing SIS in nano-HA composite coatings; however, they increased on aqua-sonicated nano-HA/SIS composites compared with SIS alone. Interestingly, thermally denatured SIS that contained aqua-sonicated, hydrothermally treated nano-HA decreased human osteoblasts (hOBs) numbers compared with respective unheated composites; all other composites when thermally denatured did not influence hOB numbers. Results also showed that the number of hOBs increased on nano-HA/SIS composites compared with SIS composites alone. Human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) numbers were not affected by the presence of nano-HA in SIS composites. For these reasons, the collective results of this in vitro study demonstrated a technique to increase the coating strength of entheses coatings on implant surfaces (using thermally denatured SIS and aqua-sonicated, hydrothermally prepared nano-HA) while, at the same time, supporting cell functions important for entheses regeneration.
Control of spatial cell attachment on carbon nanofiber patterns on polycarbonate urethane.	A highly aligned pattern of carbon nanofibers (CNF) on polycarbonate urethane (PCU) for tissue engineering applications was created by placing a CNF-ethanol solution in 30 microm width copper grid grooves on top of PCU. In vitro results provided the first evidence that fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells selectively adhered to the PCU regions. However, endothelial cells did not display a preference for adhesion to the CNF compared with PCU regions. Previous studies have shown selective adhesion of osteoblasts (bone-forming cells) on CNF compared with PCU regions. Thus, the present results suggest that CNF aligned on PCU may be useful substrates for the control of spatial cell attachment, criteria useful for the design of a wide range of tissue engineering materials, from orthopedic to vascular.
Tissue engineering of cartilage with porous polycarprolactone--alginate scaffold: the first report of tissue engineering in Thailand.	To engineer human cartilage with porous polycaprolactone (PCL)-Alginate Scaffold.
Selective adhesion and mineral deposition by osteoblasts on carbon nanofiber patterns.	In an effort to develop better orthopedic implants, osteoblast (bone-forming cells) adhesion was determined on microscale patterns (30 microm lines) of carbon nanofibers placed on polymer substrates. Patterns of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) on a model polymer (polycarbonate urethane [PCU]) were developed using an imprinting method that placed CNFs in selected regions. Results showed the selective adhesion and alignment of osteoblasts on CNF patterns placed on PCU. Results also showed greater attraction forces between fibronectin and CNF (compared with PCU) patterns using atomic force microscope force-displacement curves. Because fibronectin is a protein that mediates osteoblast adhesion, these results provide a mechanism of why osteoblast adhesion was directed towards CNF patterns. Lastly, this study showed that the directed osteoblast adhesion on CNF patterns translated to enhanced calcium phosphate mineral deposition along linear patterns of CNFs on PCU. Since CNFs are conductive materials, this study formulated substrates that through electrical stimulation could be used in future investigations to further promote osteoblasts to deposit anisotropic patterns of calcium-containing mineral similar to that observed in long bones.
Less harmful acidic degradation of poly(lacticco-glycolic acid) bone tissue engineering scaffolds through titania nanoparticle addition.	In the last 10 years, biodegradable aliphatic polyesters, such as poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), have attracted increasing attention for their use as scaffold materials in bone tissue engineering because their degradation products can be removed by natural metabolic pathways. However, one main concern with the use of these specific polymers is that their degradation products reduce local pH, which in turn induces an inflammatory reaction and damages bone cell health at the implant site. Thus, the objective of the present in vitro study was to investigate the degradation behavior of PLGA when added with dispersed titania nanoparticles. The results of this study provided the first evidence that the increased dispersion of nanophase titania in PLGA decreased the harmful change in pH normal for PLGA degradation. Moreover, previous studies have demonstrated that the increased dispersion of titania nanoparticles into PLGA significantly improved osteoblast (bone-forming cell) functions (such as adhesion, collagen synthesis, alkaline phosphatase activity, and calcium-containing minerals deposition). In this manner, nanophase titania-PLGA composites may be promising scaffold materials for more effective orthopedic tissue engineering applications.
MC3T3-E1 osteoblast attachment and proliferation on porous hydroxyapatite scaffolds fabricated with nanophase powder.	Porous bone tissue engineering scaffolds were fabricated using both nano hydroxyapatite (nano HA) powder (20 nm average particle size) and micro HA powder (10 microm average particle size), resulting in sintered scaffolds of 59 vol% porosity and 8.6 +/- 1.9 microm average grain size and 72 vol% porosity and 588 +/- 55nm average grain size, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy was used to measure both the grain size and pore size. MC3T3-E1 osteoblast (OB) attachment and proliferation on both nano HA and micro HA porous scaffolds were quantified. As expected, OB cell number was greater on nano HA scaffolds compared with similarly processed micro HA scaffolds 5 days after seeding, while OB attachment did not appear greater on the nano HA scaffolds (p < 0.05).
Geometric control of myogenic cell fate.	This work combines expertise in stem cell biology and bioengineering to define the system for geometric control of proliferation and differentiation of myogenic progenitor cells. We have created an artificial niche of myogenic progenitor cells, namely, modified extracellular matrix (ECM) substrates with spatially embedded growth or differentiation factors (GF, DF) that predictably direct muscle cell fate in a geometric pattern. Embedded GF and DF signal progenitor cells from specifically defined areas on the ECM successfully competed against culture media for myogenic cell fate determination at a clearly defined boundary. Differentiation of myoblasts into myotubes is induced in growth-promoting medium, myotube formation is delayed in differentiation-promoting medium, and myogenic cells, at different stages of proliferation and differentiation, can be induced to coexist adjacently in identical culture media. This method can be used to identify molecular interactions between cells in different stages of myogenic differentiation, which are likely to be important determinants of tissue repair. The designed ECM niches can be further developed into a vehicle for transplantation of myogenic progenitor cells maintaining their regenerative potential. Additionally, this work may also serve as a general model to engineer synthetic cellular niches to harness the regenerative potential of organ stem cells.
The role of mechanical stimulation in engineering of extracellular matrix (ECM).	The engineering of ECM in vitro is a critical area of research in tissue engineering. Cells respond to mechanical stimuli and regulate the metabolic functions via mechanotransduction and synthesise ECM. This paper reviews key pathways. In vitro studies of mechanotransduction on macroscopic tissues in specialised automated bioreactors that are capable of mimicking the physiological environment by applying different loads will help us to examine how mechanical loads influence intracellular signalling, subsequent behaviour of cells and the synthesis of ECM components.
Chondrogenic differentiation of human embryonic germ cell derived cells in hydrogels.	Human embryonic germ (hEG) cells have the potential to self-renew over long periods of time and differentiate into various lineages. Cells derived from embryoid bodies of hEG cells express a broad spectrum of gene markers and have been induced towards cells of ecto-dermal and recently endo-dermal and mesenchymal lineages. LVEC cells express a number of surface marker proteins characteristic of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), indicating the potential of these cells to differentiate into mesenchymal tissues. Here we demonstrate the homogenous differentiation of LVEC cells into hyaline cartilage. Three dimensional tissue formation is achieved by encapsulating cells in synthetic hydrogels followed by incubation in chondrocyte-conditioned culture medium. Homogenous hyaline cartilage was produced, even after 63 population doublings (13 passages). The high proliferative capacity of these cells without teratoma formation, homogenous differentiation, and three-dimensional cartilage tissue formation suggests the significant potential of LVEC cells for cartilage tissue engineering applications.
Ultrasound accelerated bone tissue engineering monitored with magnetic resonance microscopy.	Tissue engineering has the potential to treat bone loss, but current bone restoration methods, including osteogenesis from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), require three to four weeks for bone formation to occur. In this study, we stimulated the formation of engineered bone tissue with low-intensity ultrasound, which has been proven to accelerate bone healing in vivo. One group of engineered bone constructs received ultrasound stimulation 20 minutes per day over a 3-week growth period. We monitored the growth of all the engineered constructs quantitatively and noninvasively using magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM), where the T2 relaxation times of all the constructs were measured, on a weekly basis, using an 11.74 T Bruker spectrometer. Histological and immunocytochemical sections were obtained for all constructs and correlated with the MR results. This study shows that ultrasound can accelerate osteogenesis in vitro for tissue engineered bone, the growth and development of which can be monitored using MRM.
Induction of osteoblast differentiation markers in human dermal fibroblasts: potential application to bone tissue engineering.	Tissue engineered constructs have the potential to be used as replacements for current bone graft technologies. One component necessary for bone tissue engineering is a readily available, osteogenic cell source. Human dermal fibroblasts may have the potential to differentiate along an osteoblastic lineage, making them a candidate for use in bone tissue engineering applications. The objective of this study was to validate the ability of dermal fibroblasts to express gene and protein markers of osteoblastic differentiation and to explore their potential, in combination with biomaterial scaffolds and signaling factors, for use in bone tissue engineering.
In vivo evaluation of a tri-phasic composite scaffold for anterior cruciate ligament-to-bone integration.	The widespread clinical implementation of hamstring tendon (HT) autografts for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is currently limited by the unpredictable integration of the graft with subchondral bone and a lack of devices that are capable of promoting biological fixation of HT grafts to bone. The site of HT graft fixation within the bone tunnel has been identified as the weak point in the reconstructed ACL, likely due to the failure of the graft to reestablish the physiological tendon-bone interface capable of transmitting load from the ligament to bone while minimizing stress concentration at the interface. Although a fibrovascular tissue has been shown to form at the graft-bone interface, this fibrovascular tissue is non-anatomically oriented compared to the native fibrocartilage found at direct ligament to bone insertions. Interface tissue engineering embodies a new approach for graft fixation, focusing on securing tendon grafts to bone via biological fixation wherein the complex functional interface found natively at tendon and ligament junctions with bone are regenerated at the graft insertion site into the bone tunnels. This study focuses on the in vivo evaluation of a novel biomimetic, triphasic scaffold system co-cultured with relevant cell types found at the graft-bone interface, specifically fibroblasts, chondrocytes, and osteoblasts. The scaffold is intended to promote biological fixation of HT grafts to bone by guiding the reestablishment of an anatomically-oriented and mechanically functional fibrocartilage interfacial region. It was found that the cell-seeded triphasic scaffolds supported cellular interactions as well as tissue infiltration and abundant matrix production in vivo. In addition, controlled phase-specific matrix heterogeneity was induced on the scaffold, with distinct mineral and interface-like tissue regions. The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of multi-tissue regeneration on a single graft, as well as th- e potential of interface tissue engineering to enable the biological fixation of soft tissue grafts to bone.
Fibroblastic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells using connective tissue growth factor.	The present study was designed to explore an ex vivo culturing protocol for fibroblastic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) using connective tissue growth factor (CTGF). Fibroblastic differentiation from stem cells is of widespread significance in the engineering of virtually all tissues including tendons, ligaments, periodontal ligament, cranial sutures and as interstitial filler of all organs. The treatment with 100 ng/ml of recombinant human CTGF and 50 mug/ml ascorbic acids on monolayer cultured hMSCs showed significant increases in type I collagen and tenascin-C (Tn-C) contents by 2 and 4 wks. In addition, CTGF-treated hMSCs failed to show osteogenic or chondrogenic differentiation. The present data show that CTGF is an effective induction factor for fibroblastic differentiation of hMSCs. These findings have implications for engineering fibrous tissue by providing the initial evidence of a reproducible protocol for fibroblastic differentiation of hMSCs.
The effect of applied compressive loading on tissue-engineered cartilage constructs cultured with TGF-beta3.	In this study, we report that the sequential application of physiologic deformational loading after culturing with the growth factor TGF-beta3 (for 2-3 weeks) yields significantly stiffer chondrocyte-seeded agarose constructs than cultures in which deformational loading was applied during the initial 2-3 week TGF-beta3 exposure period. Using this culture protocol, engineered constructs were found to reach Young's modulus and GAG levels similar to that of native (parent) articular cartilage after only 42 days of culture. The present study extends the work on the mechanical preconditioning of engineered cartilage constructs to include transient supplementation with TGF-beta3 in a clinically-relevant, chemically-defined, serum-free media formulation.
Role of cell-cell interactions on the regeneration of soft tissue-to-bone interface.	Soft tissues such as the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) connect to bone tissue through a characteristic fibrocartilagenous interface. This interface is essential for load transfer between soft and hard tissues, and its absence is the primary cause of graft failure post ACL reconstruction surgeries. Currently, the mechanism of interface regeneration is not known. Based on in vivo observations that a fibrocartilage-like tissue forms when the graft is in direct contact with bone, we propose here the original hypothesis that fibroblast-osteoblast interactions may lead to the recruitment and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells or progenitor cells for interface regeneration. To test this hypothesis, a tri-culture model of fibroblasts-osteoblasts and interface-relevant cells was designed. This model mimics the graft-to-bone interface, supports direct cell-to-cell contact, as well as controlled homotypic and heterotypic cell-to-cell interactions. We used this model to determine the effects of fibroblast-osteoblast interaction on the response of interface-relevant cells such as bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs), chondrocytes and fibroblasts. The response of osteoblasts and fibroblasts in triculture were also assessed. It was found that tri-culture with chondrocytes led to significant changes in cell proliferation and reduced osteoblast-mediated mineralization, accompanied by increased fibroblast mineralization. Interestingly, BMSCs in tri-culture measured higher ALP activity compared to controls. Positive glycosaminoglycan (GAG) production was detected in the chondrocyte tri-culture group. Moreover, expressions of interface-relevant markers such as type II collagen and GAG were detected in tri-culture with BMSCs and fibroblasts. Our results collectively demonstrate that osteoblast-fibroblast interactions modulate cell phenotypes, promote chondrocyte matrix elaboration and may initiate the differentiation of BMSCs into interface relevant phenotype. The findings of thi- s study provide new insight into the mechanisms governing the regeneration of soft tissue-to-bone interfaces.
Engineering of fiber-reinforced tissues with anisotropic biodegradable nanofibrous scaffolds.	The repair of dense fiber-reinforced tissues poses a significant challenge for the tissue engineering community. The function of these structures is largely dependent on their architectural form, and as such, scaffold organization is an important design parameter in generating tissue analogues. To address this issue, we have recently utilized electrospinning to instill controllable fiber anisotropy in nanofibrous scaffolds. This abstract details the mechanical characterization of the bulk and local properties of these scaffolds, and points to their potential application in the repair and/or generation of fiber-reinforced tissues that recapitulate the native form.
Engineered cardiac tissues for in vitro assessment of contractile function and repair mechanisms.	For efficiently assessing the potential for grafted cells to repair infarcted myocardium, a simplified surrogate heart muscle system would offer numerous advantages. Using neonatal rat cardiac myocytes in a collagen matrix, we created thin cylindrical engineered cardiac tissues (ECTs) that exhibit essential aspects of physiologic cardiac muscle function. Furthermore, a novel cryo-injured ECT model of myocardial infarction offers the potential for the longitudinal study of mechanisms of cell-based cardiac repair in vitro.
Chondrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells by controlled delivery of transforming growth factor-beta3.	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) have been shown to differentiate into chondrocytes and form cartilage-like tissues when cultured with TGFbeta3 at 10 ng/ml. Previous attempts to engineer cartilage using hMSC have depended on in vitro pre-differentiation in order to form chondrogenic engineered constructs. Such techniques greatly increase the time of implant fabrication and suffer from loss of phenotype upon withdrawal from chondrogenic medium. The present study investigates a tissue engineered construct that includes sustained delivery of TGFbeta3 and induces differentiation of hMSC into chondrocytes in situ using injectable thermosensitive gels.
Polymer-ceramic composite scaffold induces osteogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells.	One of the design goals of the ideal tissue-engineered bone graft is ostoinductivity, the ability to induce the osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells and progenitor cells. In this study, we evaluated the osteoinductive potential of a polymer-ceramic composite in vitro. This composite has been shown to be biodegradable, osteoconductive, and osteointegrative in previous studies. It is hypothesized that this composite will enhance osteoblastic differentiation in human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), and that this inductive potential is substrate-dependent. Human MSCs were cultured on PLGA-BG composite scaffolds and their growth and differentiation were assessed over a four-week period. Composite scaffolds of PLGA and hydroxyapatite (HA), and hMSC cultures treated with osteogenic medium served as controls. It was found that hMSCs grown on PLGA-BG composite scaffolds expressed osteogenic markers without osteogenic media stimulation. In addition, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity peaked significantly earlier on the PLGA-BG composite compared to that on the PLGA scaffolds. The findings of this study collectively demonstrate the osteoinductivity of the PLGA-BG composite and its potential as a bone tissue engineering scaffold.
Towards tissue engineering of meniscus substitutes: selection of cell source and culture environment.	With the ultimate goal to engineer a meniscus substitute based on autologous cells, we aimed this work at identifying (i) a human cell source capable of generating fibrocartilaginous tissues and (ii) a culture environment promoting the development of bi-zonal constructs, resembling the complex structure and function of a meniscus. The post-expansion differentiation capacity of different chondrogenic cells readily available by knee arthroscopy, namely inner meniscus, fat pad, synovial membrane cells and articular chondrocytes (AC), was assessed within hyaluronan based non-woven meshes. Under our experimental conditions, only expanded AC generated tissues containing relevant amounts of glycosaminoglycans (GAG) and with cell phenotypes compatible with those of the inner and outer meniscus regions. Physical conditioning of constructs generated by expanded AC was applied using mixed flasks. The hydrodynamic environment of mixed flasks was instrumental to promote the formation of bi-zonal tissues, with an inner region rich in GAG and stiffer in compression and an outer rim rich in collagen and stiffer in tension. Therefore, the use of AC cultured within porous scaffolds in mixed flasks allowed engineering of constructs resembling some aspects of the phenotype and function of meniscus tissue.
Mesenchymal stem cell-based HLA-independent cell therapy for tissue engineering of bone and cartilage.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) can be obtained from human bone marrow aspirates and, thanks to their differentiation potential and excellent in vitro culture properties, represent an attractive cell line for the regeneration of mesenchymal tissue. Both in vitro and in vivo, they can differentiate into cartilage, bone, tendons and fat cells, and-in contrast to embryonic stem cells-they are not under ethical scrutiny. Cultured on three-dimensional scaffolds according to the tissue engineering concept, they have already been successfully employed for reconstruction of mesenchymal tissues in numerous studies involving both small and large animal models. Recently, immunological properties of MSC have been investigated by several groups. On the basis of the available literature, MSC have to be referred to as immune privileged, and they seem to be available for HLA-independent cell transplantation. While clinical MSC transplantation has also been successfully performed in pilot studies in humans, numerous points still remain to be clarified, underscoring the need for further intensive research before large-scale clinical application can be contemplated. Only then can it be shown whether the associated high expectations are justified.
Epithelial stem cells and tissue engineered intestine.	The intestinal mucosa has an amazing regenerative capacity, enabling rapid restoration of its physiological functions following injury. The ability to do this resides with the epithelial stem cells located within glandular invaginations in the mucosal surface. Recent advances toward the isolation and characterization of epithelial stem cells has paved the way for exploring novel therapeutic approaches for gastrointestinal disease. Possible stem cell-based therapy of gastrointestinal disorders range from the repair of damaged mucosa through to tissue engineering of artificial intestinal constructs for patients with short bowel syndrome. Before these benefits are realized further information is required on the biological characteristics of intestinal stem cells, their interactions with surrounding cells, and the environment in which they reside. This includes discovering markers to assist in the identification and purification of stem cell populations and techniques to manipulate the cells both in vivo and in vitro. Because intestinal transplantation for patients still represents a significant challenge, it is hoped that one day a tissue-engineered intestine will provide a feasible option for patients with short bowel syndrome. This review aims to introduce the reader to the main characteristics of epithelial stem cells and provide an overview of the current status of intestinal tissue engineering and the problems still being faced.
Role of growth factors and endothelial cells in therapeutic angiogenesis and tissue engineering.	To achieve the goals of engineering large complex tissues, and possibly internal organs, vascularization of the regenerating tissue is essential. To maintain the initial volume after implantation of regenerated tissue, improved vascularization is considered to be important. Recent advances in understanding the process of blood vessel growth has offered significant tools for the neovascularization of bioengineered tissues and therapeutic angiogenesis. Several angiogenic growth factors including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) were used for vascularization of ischemic tissues. Other approaches such as prevascularization of the scaffold, prior to cell seeding, and incorporation of endothelial cells in the bioengineered tissue showed encouraging results. In this article, we will review recent advances in angiogenic growth factors, and discuss the role of these growth factors and endothelial cells in therapeutic angiogenesis and tissue engineering.
Adult stem cells in bone and cartilage tissue engineering.	The progressive increase in life expectancy within the last century has led to the appearance of novel health related problems, some of those within the musculoskeletal field. Among the latter, one can find diseases such as osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis and bone cancer, just to mention some of the most relevant. Other related problems are those that arise from serious injuries, often leading to non-recoverable critical size defects. The therapies currently used to treat this type of diseases/injuries are based on the use of pharmaceutical agents, auto/allotransplant and synthetic materials. However, such solutions present a number of inconveniences and therefore, there is a constant search for novel therapeutic solutions. The appearance of a novel field of science called Tissue engineering brought some hope for the solution of the above mentioned problems. In this field, it is believed that by combining a 3D porous template--scaffold--with an adequate cell population, with osteo or chondrogenic potential, it will be possible to develop bone and cartilage tissue equivalents that when implanted in vivo, could lead to the total regeneration of the affected area. This ideal cell population should have a series of properties, namely a high osteo and chondrogenic potential and at the same time, should be easily expandable and maintained in cultures for long periods of time. Due to its natural and intrinsic properties, stem cells are one of the best available cell types. However, after this sentence, the readers may ask, "Which Stem Cells?". During the last 10/15 years, the scientific community witnessed and reported the appearance of several sources of stem cells with both osteo and chondrogenic potential. Therefore, the present review intends to make an overview of data reported on different sources of adult stem cells (bone marrow, periosteum, adipose tissue, skeletal muscle and umbilical cord) for bone and cartilage regenerative medicine, namely those focusing on the differentiation potential of the latter as well as in vivo proof of concept of their applicability. Simultaneously novel aspects of adult stem cells biotechnology such as their immunogenic characteristics and cell expansion methodologies will also be put forward. The present review also points out on issues such as the bone and cartilage regenerative market, and gives a brief description on bone and cartilage bone biology, so the readers can have a true idea of the current state of the art, and how adult stem cells can be an added value to this field.
Tooth regeneration: challenges and opportunities for biomedical material research.	Tooth regeneration presents many challenges to researchers in the fields of biology, medicine and material science. This review considers the opportunities for biomedical material research to contribute to this multidisciplinary endeavor. We present short summaries and an overview on the collective knowledge of tooth developmental biology, advances in stem-cell research, and progress in the understanding of the tooth biomineralization principles as they provide the foundation for developing strategies for reparative and regenerative medicine. We emphasize that various biomaterials developed via biomimetic strategies have great potential for tooth tissue engineering and regeneration applications. The current practices in tooth tissue engineering approaches and applications of biomimetic carriers or scaffolds are also discussed.
Proliferation and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells using self-assembled peptide amphiphile nanofibers.	The objective of this study is to enhance the proliferation and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) in nanodimensional scaffolds. The proliferation and differentiation of MSC was investigated in a three-dimensional network of nanofibers formed by self-assembly of peptide amphiphile (PA) molecules. PA was synthesized by standard solid phase chemistry that ends with the alkylation of the NH(2) terminus of the peptide. The sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid was included in the peptide design as well. A three-dimensional network of nanofibers was formed by mixing MSC suspensions in media with dilute aqueous solution of PA. The attachment, proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of MSC were influenced by the self-assembled PA nanofibers as the cell scaffold and the values were significantly high compared with those in the static culture. The alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin content of MSC cultured in the PA nanofibers significantly increased compared with the static culture method. It may be concluded that PA nanofibers enable MSC to positively improve the proliferation and differentiation extent.
Bone regeneration with active angiogenesis by basic fibroblast growth factor gene transfected mesenchymal stem cells seeded on porous beta-TCP ceramic scaffolds.	Large segmental bone defect repair remains a clinical and scientific challenge with increasing interest focused on combining gene transfer with tissue engineering techniques. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is one of the most prominent osteogenic growth factors that has the potential to accelerate bone healing by promoting the proliferation and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and the regeneration of capillary vasculature. However, the short biological half-lives of growth factors may impose severe restraints on their clinical usefulness. Gene-based delivery systems provide a better way of achieving a sustained high concentration of growth factors locally in the defect and delivering a more biologically active product than that achieved by exogenous application of recombinant proteins. The objective of this experimental study was to investigate whether the bFGF gene modified MSCs could enhance the repair of large segmental bone defects. The pcDNA3-bFGF gene transfected MSCs were seeded on biodegradable porous beta tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP) ceramics and allografted into the 15 mm critical-sized segmental bone defects in the radius of 18 New Zealand White rabbits. The pcDNA3 vector gene transfected MSCs were taken as the control. The follow-up times were 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 weeks. Scanning electron microscopic, roentgenographic, histologic and immunohistological studies were used to assess angiogenesis and bone regeneration. In vitro, the proliferation and differentiation of bFGF gene transfected MSCs were more active than that of the control groups. In vivo, significantly more new bone formation accompanied by abundant active capillary regeneration was observed in pores of the ceramics loaded with bFGF gene transfected MSCs, compared with control groups. Transfer of gene encoding bFGF to MSCs increases their osteogenic properties by enhancing capillary regeneration, thus providing a rich blood supply for new bone formation. This new bFGF gene enhanced tissue engineering strategy could be of potential benefit to accelerate bone healing, especially in defects caused by atrophic nonunion and avascular necrosis of the femoral head.
Fabrication of poly(ethylene glycol) hydrogel micropatterns with osteoinductive growth factors and evaluation of the effects on osteoblast activity and function.	The aims of this study were to fabricate poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogel micropatterns on a biomaterial surface to guide osteoblast behaviour and to study how incorporating vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) within the adhered hydrogel influenced cell morphology. Standard photolithographic procedures or photopolymerization through a poly(dimethyl siloxane) (PDMS) mould were used to fabricate patterned PEG hydrogels on the surface of silanized silicon wafers. Hydrogel patterns were evaluated by light microscopy and surface profilometry. Rat osteoblasts were cultured on these surfaces and cell morphology investigated by fluorescence microscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). Release of protein trapped in the polymerized PEG was evaluated and VEGF-PEG surfaces were characterized for their ability to support cell growth. These studies show that photopolymerized PEG can be used to create anti-adhesive structures on the surface of silicon that completely control where cell interaction with the substrate takes place. Using conventional lithography, structures down to 50 microm were routinely fabricated with the boundaries exhibiting sloping sides. Using the PDMS mould approach, structures were fabricated as small as 10 microm and boundaries were very sharp and vertical. Osteoblasts exhibiting typical morphology only grew on the silicon wafer surface that was not coated with PEG. Adding BSA to the monomer solution showed that protein could be released from the hydrogel for up to 7 days in vitro. Incorporating VEGF in the hydrogel produced micropatterns that dramatically altered osteoblast behaviour. At boundaries with the VEGF-PEG hydrogel, there was striking formation of cellular processes and membrane ruffling indicative of a change in cell morphology. This study has explored the morphogenetic properties of VEGF and the applications of nano/microfabrication techniques for guided tissue (bone) regeneration in dental and orthopaedic applications using osteoinductive PEG hydrogel micropatterns.
The effect of a chitosan-gelatin matrix and dexamethasone on the behavior of rabbit mesenchymal stem cells.	Cartilage tissue has poor capability of self-repair, especially in the case of severe cartilage damage due to trauma or age-related degeneration. Cell-based tissue engineering using scaffolds has provided an option for the repair of defects in adult cartilage tissue. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) and chondrocytes are the two major cell sources for cartilage tissue engineering. The present study combined culture conditions of MSC in a chitosan-gelatin matrix in chondrogenic media to evaluate their effects on MSC viability and chondrogenesis for cartilage tissue engineering. MSC were harvested from rabbit bone marrows and cultured in chondrogenic media supplemented, or not, with dexamethasone in a chitosan-gelatin film (C-GF). The association of C-GF and dexamethasone promoted significant increase in cell adhesivity, viability and proliferation when compared to MCS cultured in media without dexamethasone or C-GF. In addition, dexamethasone promoted increase in the collagen concentration of MSC cultures. A reduction of alkaline phosphatase activity after three weeks of culture in chondrogenic media was verified. No influence of the C-GF or of dexamethasone was observed in this matter. Therefore, it is reasonable to suggest that biomaterial-based chitosan-gelatin and chondrogenic media supplemented with dexamethasone may stimulate the proliferation and differentiation of MSC according to the complex environmental conditions. The information presented here should be useful for the development of biomaterials to regulate the chondrogenesis of MSC suitable for cartilage tissue engineering.
Establishment of a new model for culturing rabbit osteoblasts in vitro.	To establish an experimental model for culturing rabbit osteoblasts in vitro, the osteoblasts were isolated from the calvarial bone of a 15-day old rabbit using a method of culturing the bone pieces in a medium after they had been digested by an enzyme for 15 min. The acquired cells were assayed by cell morphology, alkaline phosphatase activity and production of a mineralized matrix. The results showed that the cells had the morphologic characteristics and some biological behaviours of osteoblasts. Based on the primary isolation of osteoblasts from bone and combining digestion with explants, a novel model for culturing rabbit osteoblasts in vitro was established, which is easy, efficient and effective. This model can be used in many studies of osteogenesis mechanisms and bone replacement materials.
Attachment and growth of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells on regenerated antheraea pernyi silk fibroin films.	Silk fibroin of the silkworm Bombyx mori has been studied extensively, while the research on Antheraea pernyi silk fibroin (A. pernyi SF) in biomaterials is only at an early stage. In this study, the attachment, morphology, growth and phenotype of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) cultured on the regenerated A. pernyi SF films were studied in vitro. The results indicated that the attachment of hBMSCs on the regenerated A. pernyi SF films was almost the same as that on the collagen films. MTT and cell counting analyses demonstrated that the growth of hBMSCs on the regenerated A. pernyi SF films was better than that on controls. Moreover, electron scanning microscopy and fluorescence-activated cell sorting assays showed that the regenerated A. pernyi SF supported hBMSCs growth and functional maintenance compared with the controls. These data suggest that the regenerated A. pernyi SF, like Bombyx mori silk fibroin (B. mori SF) and collagen, can support hBMSCs attachment, growth and phenotypic maintenance, and has better biocompatibilities for hBMSCs in vitro culture.
A study on improving mechanical properties of porous HA tissue engineering scaffolds by hot isostatic pressing.	Various interconnected porous hydroxyapatite (HA) ceramic scaffolds are universally used to induct the tissue growth for bone repair and replacement, and serve to support the adhesion, transfer, proliferation and differentiation of cells. Impregnation of polyurethane sponges with a ceramic slurry is adopted to produce highly porous HA ceramic scaffolds with a 3D interconnected structure. However, high porosity always accompanies a decrease in the strength of the HA ceramic scaffolds. Therefore, it is significant to improve the strength of the HA ceramic scaffolds with highly interconnected porosity so that they are more suitable in clinical applications. In this work, highly porous HA ceramic scaffolds are first produced by the polymer impregnation approach, and subsequently further sintered by hot isostatic pressing (HIP). The phase composition, macro- and micro-porous structure, sintering and mechanical properties of the porous HA scaffolds are investigated by x-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), nanoindentation analysis and compressive test. The experimental results show that the nanohardness and compressive strength of HIP-sintered porous HA ceramics are higher than those of commonly sintered HA scaffolds. The HIP technique can effectively improve the sintering property and densification of porous HA ceramic scaffolds, so inducing an increase in the compression strength.
Repair of full-thickness articular cartilage defects by cultured mesenchymal stem cells transfected with the transforming growth factor beta1 gene.	Articular cartilage repair remains a clinical and scientific challenge with increasing interest focused on the combined techniques of gene transfer and tissue engineering. Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta(1)) is a multifunctional molecule that plays a central role in promotion of cartilage repair, and inhibition of inflammatory and alloreactive immune response. Cell mediated gene therapy can allow a sustained expression of TGF-beta(1) that may circumvent difficulties associated with growth factor delivery. The objective of this study was to investigate whether TGF-beta(1) gene modified mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) could enhance the repair of full-thickness articular cartilage defects in allogeneic rabbits. The pcDNA(3)-TGF-beta(1) gene transfected MSCs were seeded onto biodegradable poly-L-lysine coated polylactide (PLA) biomimetic scaffolds in vitro and allografted into full-thickness articular cartilage defects in 18 New Zealand rabbits. The pcDNA(3) gene transfected MSCs/biomimetic scaffold composites and the cell-free scaffolds were taken as control groups I and II, respectively. The follow-up times were 2, 4, 12 and 24 weeks. Macroscopical, histological and ultrastructural studies were performed. In vitro SEM studies found that abundant cartilaginous matrices were generated and completely covered the interconnected pores of the scaffolds two weeks post-seeding in the experimental groups. In vivo, the quality of regenerated tissue improved over time with hyaline cartilage filling the chondral region and a mixture of trabecular and compact bone filling the subchondral region at 24 weeks post-implantation. Joint repair in the experimental groups was better than that of either control group I or II, with respect to: (1) synthesis of hyaline cartilage specific extracellular matrix at the upper portion of the defect; (2) reconstitution of the subchondral bone at the lower portion of the defect and (3) inhibition of inflammatory and alloreactive immune responses. The transfected MSCs overexpressed their TGF-beta(1) gene products for at least 4 weeks in vivo. The control defects were filled with a mixture of fibrous and fibrocartilaginous tissue. The TGF-beta(1) gene transfected MSCs/poly-L-lysine coated PLA composite allografts used in this study are effective for articular cartilage repair. This novel TGF-beta(1) gene enhanced tissue engineering strategy may be of potential benefit to enhancing the repair of damaged articular cartilage, especially such damage caused by degenerative disease.
Improving the cell affinity of a poly(D,L-lactide) film modified by grafting collagen via a plasma technique.	Poly(D,L-lactide) films were surface-modified by grafting collagen via NH(3) plasma to improve cell affinity. The modified films were characterized by IR analysis, contact angle measurement, SEM analysis and collagen quantity determination. It was demonstrated that -NH(2) and collagen were incorporated into the surface of PDLLA films. The hydrophilicity of the PDLLA film increased after NH(3) plasma treatment, but decreased with further collagen modification. More collagen was incorporated into the PDLLA films by a grating method as compared to that with an anchorage treatment. L929 fibroblast cells were used to evaluate the cell affinity of the modified films and control. It was shown that PDLLA films surface-modified by grafting collagen via NH(3) plasma more efficiently enhanced the cells attachment and proliferation than those films modified by collagen anchorage or only NH(3) plasma treatment.
Ceramic bioactivity: progresses, challenges and perspectives.	Bioactivity is a property of the ceramic surface which induces biological integration of living soft and hard tissues. The core mechanism of bioactivity is surface biomineralization of calcium phosphate nanocrystallites on ceramics with specific compositions and structures, inspiring acellular and cellular strategies for bio-interactive materials with new physical, chemical and biological functions. These include bioactive surface functionalizations on metallic, ceramic and polymeric substrata for biomedical materials with different mechanical properties, bioactive ceramic-polymer nanohybrids for soft tissue replacements and engineering, template-textured depositions of biomimetic nano-calcium phosphate for hybridization of bio-macromolecular and cellular functions, concerning which this paper reviews with in vivo and in vitro fundamentals and perspectives in tissue engineering.
A study on a tissue-engineered bone using rhBMP-2 induced periosteal cells with a porous nano-hydroxyapatite/collagen/poly(L-lactic acid) scaffold.	We investigated the in vivo osteogenic ability of rhBMP-2 induced periosteal cells in a new porous scaffold, nano-hydroxyapatite (nano-HA)/collagen/poly(L-lactic acid) (PLA). The nano-HA/collagen/PLA composites were utilized as an extracellular matrix for a cell-based strategy of bone tissue engineering. Periosteal cells were cultivated with 500 ng ml(-1) rhBMP-2, followed by seeding into prewet nano-HA/collagen/PLA scaffolds. The cell-scaffold constructs were then subcutaneously implanted in nude mice compared to controls with cell suspension and scaffold alone. Scanning electron microscopy examination proved that the scaffold supported adhesion and proliferation of periosteal cells. Histological bone formation was observed only in experimental groups with cell transplants 8 weeks post-implantation. The animals of the control groups did not show bone formation. The results strongly encourage the approach of the transplantation of rhBMP-2 induced periosteal cells within a suitable carrier structure for bone regeneration.
Mesenchymal stem cells for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exist in bone marrow and other musculoskeletal tissues. These cells contribute to the homeostasis of musculoskeletal tissue as well as support for the growth and differentiation of primitive hemopoietic cells. Recent advancements in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine have highlighted MSCs as a potential source of cells which would differentiate to a variety of tissue tailored to individual needs. This paper briefly outlines the current status of MSCs, focusing on their biological characteristics and potential for clinical applications.
Development of a fibrin composite-coated poly(epsilon-caprolactone) scaffold for potential vascular tissue engineering applications.	Poor cell adhesion, cytotoxicity of degradation products and lack of biological signals for cell growth, survival, and tissue generation are the limitations in the use of a biodegradable polymer scaffold for vascular tissue engineering. We have fabricated a hybrid scaffold by integrating physicochemical characteristics of poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL) and biomimetic property of a composite of fibrin, fibronectin, gelatin, growth factors, and proteoglycans to improve EC growth on the scaffold. Solvent cast porous films of poly(epsilon-caprolactone) was prepared using PEG as a porogen. Porosity varied between 5 and 200 microm, and FTIR spectroscopy confirmed structural aspects of PCL. Films kept in PBS for 60 days showed tensile strength and elongation matching native blood vessel. Slow degradation of the scaffold was demonstrated by gravimetric analysis and molecular weight determination. Human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) adhesion and proliferation on bare films were minimal. FTIR spectroscopy and environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) of PCL-fibrin hybrid scaffold confirmed the presence of fibrin composite on PCL film. HUVEC was subsequently cultured on hybrid scaffold, and continuous EC lining was observed in 15 and 30 days of culture using ESEM. Results suggest that the new hybrid scaffold can be a suitable candidate for cardiovascular tissue engineering.
Functional closure of visceral pleural defects by autologous tissue engineered cell sheets.	The occurrence of intraoperative air leaks is an unavoidable complication during pulmonary surgeries. However, current surgical methods are generally ineffective in closing these visceral pleural defects, resulting in a decreased quality of life for patients. Here, we examined novel tissue engineered cell sheets for the closure of pleural defects in a porcine model.
The complementarity of the technical tools of tissue engineering and the concepts of artificial organs for the design of functional bioartificial tissues.	Although tissue engineering uses powerful biological tools, it still has a weak conceptual foundation, which is restricted at the cell level. The design criteria at the cell level are not directly related with the tissue functions, and consequently, such functions cannot be implemented in bioartificial tissues with the currently used methods. On the contrary, the field of artificial organs focuses on the function of the artificial organs that are treated in the design as integral entities, instead of the optimization of the artificial organ components. The field of artificial organs has already developed and tested methodologies that are based on system concepts and mathematical-computational methods that connect the component properties with the desired global organ function. Such methodologies are needed in tissue engineering for the design of bioartificial tissues with tissue functions. Under the framework of biomedical engineering, artificial organs and tissue engineering do not present competitive approaches, but are rather complementary and should therefore design a common future for the benefit of patients.
The human umbilical vein: a novel scaffold for musculoskeletal soft tissue regeneration.	The umbilical cord is a biological tissue that is readily available and is usually discarded. In this study, we investigate the potential of making use of part of the human umbilical cord, in particular the umbilical vein, as a functional tissue engineering scaffold. Previous studies suggested the use of the human umbilical vein (HUV) as an acellular vascular grafting material. We propose taking advantage of the longitudinal mechanical properties of the HUV to use it as a scaffold material for musculoskeletal soft tissue regeneration. HUVs were mechanically dissected from 8.5-cm sections of fresh human umbilical cords. The sections were inverted such that the luminal side formed the exterior surface. HUVs were then decellularized, and filled with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) suspended in a type I collagen hydrogel. Seeded HUVs were cultured for periods of up to 2 weeks. After 2 weeks of culture, results showed a significant increase in cell number reaching almost three times the original inoculation density. Histological analysis revealed cell integration and migration into the HUV scaffold and extensive remodeling of extracellular matrix. Mechanically, the ultimate tensile stress doubled, and elastic modulus values were almost 2.7-fold higher. Given the differentiation capacity of the MSCs, along with the appropriate biochemical and biomechanical environment, the seeded HUV has a potential for ligament or tendon regeneration.
Force characteristics of in vivo tissue-engineered myocardial constructs using varying cell seeding densities.	Experiments have been successfully performed culminating in functional, vascularized, three-dimensional cardiac muscle tissue. Past experience in tissue engineering has led us to the understanding that cell seeding density plays a critical role in the formation and function of both in vitro and in vivo engineered tissues. Therefore, to improve upon the mechanics of this model and to facilitate the formation of myocardial tissue with improved functional performance, we sought to optimize the seeding density of cardiomyocytes in these constructs. Neonatal cardiac myocytes were isolated from 2-day-old Fischer 344 rat hearts. Silicone chambers containing fibrin gel were seeded with varying numbers of cardiac cells (1, 5, 10, and 20 million). Control chambers were prepared using fibrin gel alone. All of the chambers were then implanted around the femoral vessels of isogenic rats. Six constructs per cell seeding density group were implanted. Histological and immunohistochemical evaluation was performed via hematoxylin and eosin, von Gieson, and alpha-sarcomeric actin staining protocols. Linear contractile force measurements were obtained for each construct following 4 weeks of in vivo implantation. After an implantation period of 4 weeks, the newly formed cardiac constructs contained within the chambers were harvested. The femoral vessels within the constructs were found to be patent in all cases. With direct electrical stimulation, the constructs were able to generate an average active force that varied depending on their seeding density. Constructs with seeding densities of 1, 5, 10, and 20 million cells produced an average active force of 208, 241, 151, and 108 microN, respectively. The control constructs did not generate any active force on electrical stimulation. This study demonstrates the in vivo survival, vascularization, organization, and function of transplanted myocardial cells. It is also apparent that cell seeding density plays a direct role in the force generation and mechanical properties of these engineered constructs. Among different groups using varying cell seeding densities, we found that the group with 5 million cells generated maximum active force.
Cultivation of an immortalized human corneal endothelial cell population and two distinct clonal subpopulations on thermo-responsive carriers.	Recently, it was possible to show that human corneal endothelial cells (HCEC) can be cultured on thermo-responsive polymer substrates, and can be harvested as entire cell sheets without losing viability. We sought to study HCEC sheet cultivation on such cell culture carriers under serum-free conditions as the next consequential step in developing methods for generation of corneal endothelial cell transplants.
Thiol/acrylate-modified PEO-PPO-PEO triblocks used as reactive and thermosensitive copolymers.	The reactive thermal-sensitive hydrogels, which combined the reversible thermosensitive and mild reactive property, were designed based on thiol-ene reaction in physiological conditions between thiol and acrylate capped thermosensitive Poloxamer 188. The modified P188A, P188SH, and their reactivity were characterized by (1)H NMR, FT-IR, GPC, DSC, Ellman method, and Rheometer. It was found that the thiol-ene reaction was pH and thermal-sensitive. There was 77.7% SH involved into the reaction at 37.0 degrees C and pH 7.4 within the first 30 min. The most of molecules reacted as CC/SH mol ratio was 1.5. The exothermic thiol-ene reaction was mild, with about DeltaH = -91.18 J/g changes. The multiblocks or network structure limited the dissolution of hydrogel, correspondingly the gel's duration and the release time of methylene blue were prolonged to 124 h. The experimental results indicated the reactive thermal-sensitive hydrogel's potential applications in drug delivery, tissue engineering, and cell encapsulation.
BioPEGylation of polyhydroxyalkanoates: influence on properties and satellite-stem cell cycle.	The addition of poly(ethylene glycol), PEG, to bioprocessing systems producing polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), has been reported as a means of their molecular weight control and can also support bioPEGylation, resulting in hybrids with amphiphillic properties. However, the study of such natural-synthetic hybrids of PHA-b-PEG is still in its infancy. In this study, we report the influence of bioPEGylation of polyhydroxyoctanoate (PHO) on its physiochemical, material, and biological properties. Consistent with previous studies, bioPEGylation with diethylene glycol (DEG) showed a significant reduction in PHA molecular weight (57%). In comparison to solvent cast films of PHO, PHO-b-DEG films possessed a noticeable X-ray diffraction peak at 9.82 degrees and increased Young's modulus of 11 Gpa (83%). Potential biocompatibility was investigated by measuring the early phase of apoptosis in myoblastic satellite-stem cells (C2C12). Comparative analysis of cell proliferation and progression in the presence of the mcl-PHA and its hybrid showed that the latter induced significant cell cycle progression: the first time a biomaterial has been shown to do so. Microtopographies of the film surfaces demonstrated that these differences were not due to changes in surface morphology; both polymers possessed average surface rugosities of 1.4 +/- 0.2 microm. However, a slight decrease in surface hydrophobicity (3.5 +/- 0.9 degrees) due to the hydrophilic DEG may have exerted an influence. The results support the further study of bioPEGylated PHAs as potential biomaterials in the field of tissue engineering.
Attachment and growth of human embryonic stem cells on microcarriers.	The use of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) for cell-based therapies will require large quantities of genetically stable pluripotent cells and their differentiated progeny. Traditional hESC propagation entails adherent culture and is sensitive to enzymatic dissociation. These constraints hamper modifying method from 2-dimensional flat-bed culture, which is expensive and impractical for bulk cell production. Large-scale culture for clinical use will require innovations such as suspension culture for bioprocessing. Here we describe the attachment and growth kinetics of both murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs) and hESCs on trimethyl ammonium-coated polystyrene microcarriers for feeder-free, 3-dimensional suspension culture. mESCs adhered and expanded according to standard growth kinetics. For hESC studies, we tested aggregate (collagenase-dissociated) and single-cell (TrypLE-dissociated) culture. Cells attached rapidly to beads followed by proliferation. Single-cell cultures expanded 3-fold over approximately 5 days, slightly exceeding that of hESC aggregates. Importantly, single-cell cultures were maintained through 6 passages with a 14-fold increase in cell number while still expressing the undifferentiated markers Oct-4 and Tra 1-81. Finally, hESCs retained their capacity to differentiate towards pancreatic, neuronal, and cardiomyocyte lineages. Our studies provide proof-of-principle of suspension-based expansion of hESCs on microcarriers, as a novel, economical and practical feeder-free means of bulk hESC production.
Computational evaluation of oxygen and shear stress distributions in 3D perfusion culture systems: macro-scale and micro-structured models.	We present a combined macro-scale/micro-scale computational approach to quantify oxygen transport and flow-mediated shear stress to human chondrocytes cultured in three-dimensional scaffolds in a perfusion bioreactor system. A macro-scale model was developed to assess the influence of the bioreactor design and to identify the proper boundary conditions for the micro-scale model. The micro-scale model based on a micro-computed tomography (microCT) reconstruction of a poly(ethylene glycol terephthalate)/poly(butylene terephthalate) (PEGT/PBT) foam scaffold, was developed to assess the influence of the scaffold micro-architecture on local shear stress and oxygen levels within the scaffold pores. Experiments were performed to derive specific oxygen consumption rates for constructs perfused under flow rates of 0.3 and 0.03 ml min(-1). While macro-scale and micro-scale models predicted similar average oxygen levels at different depths within the scaffold, microCT models revealed small local oxygen variations within the scaffold micro-architecture. The combined macro-scale/micro-scale approach indicated that 0.3 ml min(-1), which subjected 95% of the cells to less than 6.3 mPa shear, would maintain the oxygen supply throughout the scaffold above anoxic levels (>1%), with 99.5% of the scaffold supplied with 8-2% O(2). Alternatively, at 0.03 ml min(-1), the macro-scale model predicted 6% of the cells would be supplied with 0.5-1% O(2), although this region of cells was confined to the periphery of the scaffold. Together with local variations predicted by the micro-scale model, the simulations underline that in the current model system, reducing the flow below 0.03 ml min(-1) would likely have dire consequences on cell viability to pronounced regions within the engineered construct. The presented approach provides a sensitive tool to aid efficient bioreactor optimization and scaffold design.
Tuning stability of mesoporous silica films under biologically relevant conditions through processing with supercritical CO2.	Mesoporous materials have been proposed for use in numerous biological environments such as substrates for cell culture and controlled release for drug delivery. Although mesoporous silica synthesis is facile, recent reports (Dunphy et al. Langmuir 2003, 19, 10403; Bass et al. Chem. Mater. 2007, 19, 4349) have demonstrated instability (dissolution) of pure mesoporous silica films under biologically relevant conditions. In this work, we demonstrate a simple processing handle (pressure) to control the dissolution of mesoporous silica films that are synthesized using preformed template films and supercritical CO 2. Spectroscopic ellipsometry is utilized to quantify changes in both the film thickness and porosity; these properties provide insight into the dissolution mechanism. The pore size increases as the films are exposed to phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) through preferential dissolution at the pore wall in comparison to the film surface; a mechanism reminiscent of bulk erosion of scaffolds for drug delivery. Thin mesoporous silica film lifetimes can be extended from several hours using traditional sol-gel approaches to days by using CO 2 processing for identical film thickness. Osteoblast attachment and viability on these films was found to correlate with their increased stability. This enhanced stability opens new possibilities for the utilization of mesoporous silica for biological applications, including drug delivery and tissue engineering.
Gel spinning of silk tubes for tissue engineering.	Tubular vessels for tissue engineering are typically fabricated using a molding, dipping, or electrospinning technique. While these techniques provide some control over inner and outer diameters of the tube, they lack the ability to align the polymers or fibers of interest throughout the tube. This is an important aspect of biomaterial composite structure and function for mechanical and biological impact of tissue outcomes. We present a novel aqueous process system to spin tubes from biopolymers and proteins such as silk fibroin. Using silk as an example, this method of winding an aqueous solution around a reciprocating rotating mandrel offers substantial improvement in the control of the tube properties, specifically with regard to winding pattern, tube porosity, and composite features. Silk tube properties are further controlled via different post-spinning processing mechanisms such as methanol treatment, air-drying, and lyophilization. This approach to tubular scaffold manufacture offers numerous tissue engineering applications such as complex composite biomaterial matrices, blood vessel grafts and nerve guides, among others.
Urine derived cells are a potential source for urological tissue reconstruction.	Contemporary approaches to tissue engineering and cell therapy for urinary tract reconstruction require invasive tissue biopsies to obtain autologous cells. However, these procedures are associated with potential complications. We determined whether the cells present in urine have characteristics of normal bladder cells and investigated their potential uses for urological reconstructive procedures.
Notch signaling respecifies the hemangioblast to a cardiac fate.	To efficiently generate cardiomyocytes from embryonic stem (ES) cells in culture it is essential to identify key regulators of the cardiac lineage and to develop methods to control them. Using a tet-inducible mouse ES cell line to enforce expression of a constitutively activated form of the Notch 4 receptor, we show that signaling through the Notch pathway can efficiently respecify hemangioblasts to a cardiac fate, resulting in the generation of populations consisting of >60% cardiomyocytes. Microarray analyses reveal that this respecification is mediated in part through the coordinated regulation of the BMP and Wnt pathways by Notch signaling. Together, these findings have uncovered a potential role for the Notch pathway in cardiac development and provide an approach for generating large numbers of cardiac progenitors from ES cells.
Clinical application of in situ tissue engineering using a scaffolding technique for reconstruction of the larynx and trachea.	The objective of the present study was to demonstrate the efficacy of the clinical application of in situ tissue engineering using a scaffolding technique for laryngeal and tracheal tissue.
Engineered cartilage constructs subject to very low regimens of interstitial perfusion.	We have studied an in vitro engineered cartilage model, consisting of bovine articular chondrocytes seeded on micro-porous scaffolds and perfused with very low regimens of interstitial flow. Our previous findings suggested that synthesis of sulphated glycosaminoglycans (sGAG) was promoted in this model, if the level of shear generated on cells was maintained below 10 mPa (0.1 dyn/cm2). Constructs were stimulated with a median shear stress of 1.2 and 6.7 mPa using two independent culture chambers. Quantification of the applied stresses and of oxygen consumption rates was obtained from computational modelling. Experimentally, we set a time zero reference at 24 hours after cell seeding and total culture time at two weeks. The cell metabolic activity, measured by MTT, was significantly lower in all constructs at two weeks (-73% in static controls, -66% in the 1.2 mPa group and -60% in the 6.7 mPa group) vs. the time zero group, and significantly higher (+33%) in the 7 mPa group vs. static controls. The ratio between synthesis of collagen type II/type I, measured by Western Blot, was significantly higher in the 1.2 mPa constructs (+109% vs. the 6.7 mPa group, +120% vs. the time zero group and +286% vs. static controls). A trend of decreased alpha-actin expression was observed with increased ratio of type II to type I collagen, in all groups. These results reinforce the notion that, at early time points in culture, hydrodynamic shear below 10 mPa may promote formation of extra-cellular matrix specific to hyaline cartilage in chondrocyte-seeded constructs.
Influence of hydrostatic and distortional stress on chondroinduction.	Undifferentiated connective tissue that arises during embryonic development and some healing processes contains pluripotent mesenchymal stem cells. It is becoming increasingly evident that the mechanical environment is an important differentiation factor for these cells. In our laboratory, we have focused on the potential for mechanical signals to induce chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells. Using C3H10T1/2 cells as a model, we have investigated the influence of hydrostatic pressure, equibiaxial contraction, and centrifugal pressure on chondroinduction. Cells responded to cyclic hydrostatic compression (5 MPa at 1 Hz) and cyclic contractile strain (15% at 1 Hz) by upregulating aggrecan and collagen type II gene expression. In addition, a preliminary study of the effects of centrifugal pressure (4.1 MPa for 30 min) suggests that it may increase cell proliferation and stimulate proteoglycan and collagen type II production. We speculate that compression, whether it is distortional or hydrostatic in nature, applied to undifferentiated connective tissue triggers differentiation toward a chondrocyte-like phenotype and production of a less permeable extracellular matrix which is capable of sustaining increasingly higher hydrostatic fluid pressure for compressive load support.
Composite scaffolds for cartilage tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering remains a promising therapeutic strategy for the repair or regeneration of diseased or damaged tissues. Previous approaches have typically focused on combining cells and bioactive molecules (e.g., growth factors, cytokines and DNA fragments) with a biomaterial scaffold that functions as a template to control the geometry of the newly formed tissue, while facilitating the attachment, proliferation, and differentiation of embedded cells. Biomaterial scaffolds also play a crucial role in determining the functional properties of engineered tissues, including biomechanical characteristics such as inhomogeneity, anisotropy, nonlinearity or viscoelasticity. While single-phase, homogeneous materials have been used extensively to create numerous types of tissue constructs, there continue to be significant challenges in the development of scaffolds that can provide the functional properties of load-bearing tissues such as articular cartilage. In an attempt to create more complex scaffolds that promote the regeneration of functional engineered tissues, composite scaffolds comprising two or more distinct materials have been developed. This paper reviews various studies on the development and testing of composite scaffolds for the tissue engineering of articular cartilage, using techniques such as embedded fibers and textiles for reinforcement, embedded solid structures, multi-layered designs, or three-dimensionally woven composite materials. In many cases, the use of composite scaffolds can provide unique biomechanical and biological properties for the development of functional tissue engineering scaffolds.
Phenotypic analysis of cell surface markers and gene expression of human mesenchymal stem cells and chondrocytes during monolayer expansion.	Both chondrocytes and mensenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are the most used cell sources for cartilage tissue engineering. However, monolayer expansion to obtain sufficient cells leads to a rapid chondrocyte dedifferentiation and a subsequent ancillary reduced ability of MSCs to differentiate into chondrocytes, thus limiting their application in cartilage repair. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of the monolayer expansion on the immunophenotype and the gene expression profile of both cell types, and to find the appropriate compromise between monolayer expansion and the remaining chondrogenic characteristics. To this end, human chondrocytes, isolated enzymatically from femoral head slice, and human MSCs, derived from bone marrow, were maintained in monolayer culture up to passage 5. The respective expressions of cell surface markers (CD34, CD45, CD73, CD90, CD105, CD166) and several chondrogenic-related genes for each passage (P0-P5) of those cells were then analyzed using flow cytometry and quantitative real-time PCR, respectively. Flow cytometry analyses showed that, during the monolayer expansion, some qualitative and quantitative regulations occur for the expression of cell surface markers. A rapid increase in mRNA expression of type 1 collagen occurs whereas a significant decrease of type 2 collagen and Sox 9 was observed in chondrocytes through the successive passages. On the other hand, the expansion did not induced obvious change in MSCs gene expression. In conclusion, our results suggest that passage 1 might be the up-limit for chondrocytes in order to achieve their subsequent redifferentiation in 3D scaffold. Nevertheless, MSCs could be expanded in monolayer until passage 5 without loosing their undifferentiated phenotypes.
Influences of construct properties on the proliferation and matrix synthesis of dedifferentiated chondrocytes cultured in alginate gel.	To investigate whether the chondrocytes-alginate construct properties, such as cell seeding density and alginate concentration might affect the redifferentiation, dedifferentiated rat articular chondrocytes were encapsulated at low density (LD: 3 x 10(6) cells/ml) or high density (HD: 10 x 10(6) cells/ml) in two different concentrations of alginate gel (1.2% or 2%, w/v) to induce redifferentiation. Cell viability and cell proliferation of LD culture was higher than those of HD culture. The increase in alginate gel concentration did not make an obvious difference in cell viability, but reduced cell proliferation rate accompanied with the decrease of cell population in S phase and G2/M phase. Scan electron microscopy observation revealed that chondrocytes maintained round in shape and several direct cell-cell contacts were noted in HD culture. In addition, more extracellular matrix was observed in the pericellular region of chondrocytes in 2% alginate culture than those in 1.2% alginate culture. The same tendency was found for the synthesis of collagen type II. No noticeable expression of collagen type I was detected in all constructs at the end of 28-day cultures. These results suggested that construct properties play an important role in the process of chondrocytes' redifferentiation and should be considered for creating of an appropriate engineered articular cartilage.
Bioreactor improves the growth and viability of chondrocytes in the knitted poly-L,D-lactide scaffold.	In the present study bovine chondrocytes were cultured in two different environments (static flasks and bioreactor) in knitted poly-L,D-lactide (PLDLA) scaffolds up to 4 weeks. Chondrocyte viability was assessed by employing cell viability fluorescence markers. The cells were visualized using confocal laser scanning microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The mechanical properties and uronic acid contents of the scaffolds were tested. Our results showed that cultivation in a bioreactor improved the growth and viability of the chondrocytes in the PLDLA scaffolds. Cells were observed both on and in between the fibrils of scaffold. Furthermore, chondrocytes cultured in the bioreactor, regained their original round phenotypes, whereas those in the static flask culture were flattened in shape. Confocal microscopy revealed that chondrocytes from the bioreactor were attached on both sides of the scaffold and sustained viability better during the culture period. Uronic acid contents of the scaffolds, cultured in bioreactor, were significantly higher than in those cultured in static flasks for 4 weeks. In summary, our data suggests that the bioreactor is superior over the static flask culture when culturing chondrocytes in knitted PLDLA scaffold.
Fibroblast sheets co-cultured with endothelial progenitor cells improve cardiac function of infarcted hearts.	We have already confirmed that cell sheet transplantation can improve damaged heart function via continuous cytokine secretion. In this study, we hypothesized that cytokine-secreting cell sheets co-cultured with an endothelial cell source may be more effective for repairing ischemic myocardium. Confluent rat fibroblasts cultured on temperature-responsive culture dishes were harvested as contiguous cell sheets by temperature reduction. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-positive endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) were seeded on fibroblast sheets to create co-cultured cell sheets, and sandwich-like constructs were engineered by stacking of the co-cultured cell sheets. These constructs were transplanted into rat myocardial infarction models. Cardiac function and histology were assessed in four groups: the sham operation (C) group, the isolated EPC injection (E) group, the transplantation of triple-layer fibroblast sheets (F) group, and the transplantation of triple-layer sandwich-like constructs (E + F) group. Echocardiography showed significant improvement of the fractional shortening in the E + F group in comparison with the C group (0.25 +/- 0.05 vs. 0.16 +/- 0.02). On histological examination, significantly less connective tissue formation was observed in the E, F, and E + F groups when compared to the C group (C, E, F, and E + F groups: 53 +/- 2%, 41 +/- 4%, 40 +/- 4%, and 32 +/- 7%, respectively). Additionally, increased blood vessel formation was detected in the E, F, and E + F groups compared with the C group (C, E, F, and E + F groups: 1.9% +/- 0.6%, 6.7% +/- 0.6%, 7.8% +/- 0.9%, and 10.2% +/- 2.4%, respectively). Furthermore, GFP-staining demonstrated that the newly formed blood vessels were composed of the co-cultured EPCs. Transplantation of cell sheets co-cultured with an endothelial cell source may be a new therapeutic strategy for myocardial tissue regeneration.
Biomaterials in articular cartilage lesions repair]	Osteoarthritic symptoms following articular cartilage injuries are the most common musculoskeletal system disease. The treatment possibilities search for methods to restore and bring back the function of injured joint surfaces. Recent trend heads for creation of biocompatible matrices (scaffolds) based on natural and synthetic polimers. This study presents currently used biomaterials in the sphere of their usefulness in articular cartilage lesions repair. Both natural and synthetic materials have been researched in experimental and clinical studies. Naturally- derived protein polymers, such as collagen, fibrin, gelatin and carbohydrate polymers containing polylactide and polyglycolic acid, hialuronan, agarose, alginate, chitosan can be distinguished. Synthetic materials are represented by carbon fibers, Dacron and Teflon matrices. Scaffolds fabrication techniques include fiber-bonding, particulate leaching, freeze- drying and particles aggregation. Due to different polymers' properties selection of a scaffold depends on an appropriate matrix parameters. The most valuable characteristics are biocompatibility, porosity, mechanical resistance and bioabsorbability. Notwithstanding, several experimental and clinical studies there still exists the need for one simple and inexpensive polymer- based method that would bring satisfactory results in the area of joint cartilage repair.
Fabrication of a layered microstructured polycaprolactone construct for 3-D tissue engineering.	Successful artificial tissue scaffolds support regeneration by promoting cellular organization as well as appropriate mechanical and biological functionality. We have previously shown in vitro that 2-D substrates with micrometer-scale grooves (5 microm deep, 18 microm wide, with 12 microm spacing) can induce cell orientation and ECM alignment. Here, we have transferred this microtopography onto biodegradable polycaprolactone (PCL) thin films. We further developed a technique to layer these cellularized microtextured scaffolds into a 3-D tissue construct. A surface modification technique was used to attach photoreactive acrylate groups on the PCL scaffold surface onto which poly(ethylene glycol)-diacrylate (PEG-DA) gel could be photopolymerized. PEG-DA serves as an adhesive layer between PCL scaffolds, resulting in a VSMC-seeded layered 3-D composite structure that is highly organized and structurally stable. The PCL surface modification chemistry was confirmed via XPS, and the maintenance of cell number and orientation on the modified PCL scaffolds was demonstrated using colorimetric and imaging techniques. Cell number and orientation were also investigated after cells were cultured in the layered 3-D configuration. Such 3-D tissue mimics fabricated with precise cellular organization will enable systematic testing of the effects of cellular orientation on the functional and mechanical properties of tissue-engineered blood vessels.
Applications of dendrimers in tissue engineering.	Despite the wide-spread use of dendrimers in biomedical applications, their use in the fabrication of tissue engineering scaffolds has been limited. The highly branched, multivalent nature of dendrimers makes them ideal candidates for a variety of tissue engineering applications, including as crosslinking agents, modulators of surface charge and surface chemistry, and as primary components in scaffolds that mimic natural extracellular matrices. Compared to linear polymers, the multiple end groups of dendrimers may potentially offer more control over factors such as cell proliferation rates and biodegradation profiles through systematic variation of generation size, concentration, and end group chemistry. The combination of dendrimers and other traditional scaffold polymers, such as proteins, carbohydrates, and linear synthetic polymers has led to the creation of hybrid scaffolds with new physical, mechanical, and biochemical properties. This review describes examples where dendritic macromolecules have been incorporated into scaffolds for the regeneration of a variety of tissues and cell types and highlights areas where dendrimers have yet to be utilized.
Isolation and viability of human endothelial cells in tissue engineering]	Construction of human blood vessels by tissue engineering is strongly dependent of the use of viable and fully functional cultured endothelial cells (ECs). In this work, we have determined in a preliminary study both cell viability and PGI2 activity in primary cell cultures of human ubilical vein ECs, to identify the specific cell passage that is more appropriate to be used in tissue engineering protocols. Cell viability was determined by quantification of the intracellular cocnentration of several ions by electron probe X-ray microanalysis, whereas PGI2 release was quantified by radioimmunoassay. The results of our analyses demonstrate that the K/Na ratio was different for each cell passage, suggesting that the highest cell viability corresponds to the third passage. In contrast, PGI2 production was higher at the first two cell passages, with a significant decrease at the third passage. These data suggest that cells corresponding to the second cell passage show the best ratio viability/ functionality and should therefore be used for tissue engineering protocols.
Optimization of flexor tendon tissue engineering with a cyclic strain bioreactor.	Mechanical manipulation of cultured tendon cells can enhance cell proliferation and matrix production. This study aims to determine the bioreactor strain patterns (amplitude, frequency, and on/off ratio) that favor cellular proliferation, promote collagen production, and maintain morphology in candidate cell lines cultured for flexor tendon tissue engineering, including multipotent stromal cells.
Micropatterned organoid culture of rat hepatocytes and HepG2 cells.	The culture of liver cell organoids (multicellular aggregates) such as spheroids or cylindroids, which can strongly express liver functions, has been advocated as a useful technique that has advantages over monolayer culture. This paper describes a micropatterning technique for obtaining spheroids and cylindroids by using rat hepatocytes or HepG2 cells. We developed culture chips that comprised multiple, circular or rectangular microwells; the bottom surface of each microwell was modified with collagen to create a cell adhesion area, and the entire microwell, excluding the collagen-coated spots, was modified with polyethylene glycol (PEG) to create a nonadhesive area. Rat hepatocytes and HepG2 cells formed uniform spheroids and cylindroids on the circular and rectangular chips, respectively. Consequently, two-dimensional micropatterned chips containing homogeneous spheroids or cylindroids were generated. The expression of liver functions (protein secretion and ammonia removal) was greater in the spheroids and cylindroids than in the monolayer culture, and this expression was maintained for at least 2 weeks of culture. Thus, this chip technology has potential for use in various applications that involve organoid culture.
Darcian permeability constant as indicator for shear stresses in regular scaffold systems for tissue engineering.	The shear stresses in printed scaffold systems for tissue engineering depend on the flow properties and void volume in the scaffold. In this work, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is used to simulate flow fields within porous scaffolds used for cell growth. From these models the shear stresses acting on the scaffold fibres are calculated. The results led to the conclusion that the Darcian (k(1)) permeability constant is a good predictor for the shear stresses in scaffold systems for tissue engineering. This permeability constant is easy to calculate from the distance between and thickness of the fibres used in a 3D printed scaffold. As a consequence computational effort and specialists for CFD can be circumvented by using this permeability constant to predict the shear stresses. If the permeability constant is below a critical value, cell growth within the specific scaffold design may cause a significant increase in shear stress. Such a design should therefore be avoided when the shear stress experienced by the cells should remain in the same order of magnitude.
Evaluation of photocrosslinked Lutrol hydrogel for tissue printing applications.	Application of hydrogels in tissue engineering and innovative strategies such as organ printing, which is based on layered 3D deposition of cell-laden hydrogels, requires design of novel hydrogel matrices. Hydrogel demands for 3D printing include: 1) preservation of the printed shape after the deposition; 2) maintaining cell viability and cell function and 3) easy handling of the printed construct. In this study we analyze the applicability of a novel, photosensitive hydrogel (Lutrol) for printing of 3D structured bone grafts. We benefit from the fast temperature-responsive gelation ability of thermosensitive Lutrol-F127, ensuring organized 3D extrusion, and the additional stability provided by covalent photocrosslinking allows handling of the printed scaffolds. We studied the cytotoxicity of the hydrogel and osteogenic differentiation of embedded osteogenic progenitor cells. After photopolymerization of the modified Lutrol hydrogel, cells remain viable for up to three weeks and retain the ability to differentiate. Encapsulation of cells does not compromise the mechanical properties of the formed gels and multilayered porous Lutrol structures were successfully printed.
Evaluation of cross-linking methods for electrospun gelatin on cell growth and viability.	The creation of a tissue engineering scaffold via electrospinning that has minimal toxicity and uses a solvent system composed of solvents with low toxicity and different cross-linking agents was investigated. First, a solvent system of acetic acid/ethyl acetate/water (50:30:20) with gelatin as a solute was evaluated. The optimum system for electrospinning a scaffold with the desired properties resulted from a gelatin concentration of 10 wt %. Several different methods were used to cross-link the electrospun gelatin fibers, including vapor-phase glutaraldehyde, aqueous phase genipin, and glyceraldehyde, as well as reactive oxygen species from a plasma cleaner. Because glutaraldehyde at high concentrations has been shown to be toxic, we explored other cross-linking methods. Using reactive oxygen species from a plasma cleaner is an easy alternative; however, the degradation reaction dominated the cross-linking reaction and the scaffolds degraded after only a few hours in aqueous medium at 37 C. Glyceraldehyde and genipin were established as good options for cross-linking agents because of the low toxicity of these cross-linkers and the resistance to dissolution of the cross-linked fibers in cell culture medium at 37 C. MG63 osteoblastic cells were grown on each of the cross-linked scaffolds. A proliferation assay showed that the cells proliferated as well or better on the cross-linked scaffolds than on traditional two-dimensional polystyrene culture plates.
Foam-like scaffolds for bone tissue engineering based  on a novel couple of silicate-phosphate specular glasses: synthesis  and properties.	Glass-ceramic scaffolds mimicking the structure of cancellous bone were produced via sponge replication technique by using a polyurethane foam as template and glass powder below 30 lm as inorganic phase. Specifically, a SiO-based glass of complex composition and its corresponding PO-based "specular" glass were used as materials for scaffolding. The polymeric sponge was thermally removed and the glass powders were sintered to obtain a replica of the template structure. The scaffolds were investigated and compared from a structural, morphological and mechanical viewpoint by assessing their crystalline phases, volumetric shrinkage, pores content and interconnection, mechanical strength. In addition, the scaffolds were soaked in acellular simulated body fluid to investigate their in vitro behaviour. The produced scaffolds have a great potential for bone reconstructive surgery because their features, such as shape, strength, bioactivity and bioresorption, can be easily tailored according to the end use.
Mechano-functional assessment of human mesenchymal stem cells grown in three-dimensional hyaluronan-based scaffolds for cartilage tissue engineering.	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are an alternative cell source in bioconstruct production for cartilage regeneration, and hyaluronic acid (HA) is a widely-used bioabsorbable scaffold material used for cartilage regeneration. In this work, the aims were to evaluate the mechanical competency of hMSC-seeded HA scaffolds compared with native intact human articular cartilage, and in relation to its cellular properties. Human MSCs were grown under static conditions in HA scaffolds and then tested, in stepwise, stress-relaxation indentation, 7, 14, and 21 days later. Scaffolds at days 14 and 21 showed a significant increase in mechanical measures when compared with day 7 and unseeded scaffold material, but did not achieve the same levels as human cartilage. There was consistent stiffness within the scaffold, with a decreased stiffness around the edge. In vitro culture of hMSC-seeded HA scaffolds over 3 weeks produces a white, solid tissue compared with unseeded constructs. Increased cell proliferation and collagen type II expression were also seen over this period of time. These results demonstrate the competency of the neo-formed cartilage-like tissue in relation to its mechanical and cellular properties, and further, the importance, for future clinical use, of implanting this construct after 14 days of culture.
Fabrication of arbitrary polymer patterns for cell study by two-photon polymerization process.	Topographically patterned surfaces are known to be powerful tools for influencing cellular functions. Here we demonstrate a method for fabricating high aspect ratio ( approximately 10) patterns of varying height by using two-photon polymerization process to study contact guidance of cells. Ridge patterns of various heights and widths were fabricated through single laser scanning steps by low numerical aperture optics, hence at much higher processing throughput. Fibroblast cells were seeded on parallel line patterns of different height ( approximately 1.5-microm, approximately 0.8-microm, and approximately 0.5-microm) and orthogonal mesh patterns ( approximately 8-microm and approximately 4-microm height, approximately 5-microm and approximately 5.5-microm height, approximately 5-microm and approximately 6-microm height). Cells experienced different strength of contact guidance depending on the ridge height. Our results demonstrate that a height threshold of nearly 1 microm influences cell alignment on both parallel line and orthogonal mesh patterns. This fabrication technique may find wide application in the design of single cell traps for controlling cell behavior in microdevices and investigating signal transduction as influenced by surface topology.
Cartilage tissue engineering on fibrous chitosan scaffolds produced by a replica molding technique.	The biocompatibility of chitosan and its similarity with glycosaminoglycans make it attractive as a scaffold for cartilage engineering. Fibrous scaffolds may simulate cartilage extracellular matrix structure and promote chondrocyte functions. Our objectives were to produce chitosan fibers of different size and evaluate their potential for chondrogenesis. A novel replica molding technique was developed to produce chitosan nonwoven scaffolds made of fiber measuring 4, 13, or 22 mum in width. A polyglycolic acid mesh (PGA) served as a reference group. Controls were analyzed 48 h after seeding porcine chondrocytes via scanning electron microscopy (SEM), DNA, and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) quantifications. Constructs were cultured for 21 days prior to confocal microscopy, SEM, histology, and quantitative analysis (weight, water, DNA, GAG and collagen II). Chondrocytes maintained their phenotypic appearance and a viability above 85% on the chitosan scaffolds. Chondrocytes attach preferentially to PGA, resulting in a greater cellularity of these constructs. However, based on the GAG/DNA and Collagen II/DNA ratios, matrix production per chondrocyte was improved in chitosan constructs, especially on smaller fibers. The differences between PGA and chitosan are more likely to result from the chemical composition rather than their structural characteristics. Although chitosan appears to promote matrix formation, further studies should be aimed at improving its cell adhesion properties.
Feasibility, tailoring and properties of polyurethane/bioactive glass composite scaffolds for tissue engineering.	This research work aims to propose highly porous polymer/bioactive glass composites as potential scaffolds for hard-tissue and soft-tissue engineering. The scaffolds were prepared by impregnating an open-cells polyurethane sponge with melt-derived particles of a bioactive glass belonging to the SiO(2)-P(2)O(5)-CaO-MgO-Na(2)O-K(2)O system (CEL2). Both the starting materials and the composite scaffolds were investigated from a morphological and structural viewpoint by X-ray diffraction analysis and scanning electron microscopy. Tensile mechanical tests, carried out according to international ISO and ASTM standards, were performed by using properly tailored specimens. In vitro tests by soaking the scaffolds in simulated body fluid (SBF) were also carried out to assess the bioactivity of the porous composites. It was found that the composite scaffolds were highly bioactive as after 7 days of soaking in SBF a HA layer grew on their surface. The obtained polyurethane/CEL2 composite scaffolds are promising candidates for tissue engineering applications.
RGD-modified acellular bovine pericardium as a bioprosthetic scaffold for tissue engineering.	Acellular biological tissues, including bovine pericardia (BP), have been proposed as natural biomaterials for tissue engineering. However, small pore size, low porosity and lack of extra cellular matrix (ECM) after native cell extraction directly restrict the seed cell adhesion, migration and proliferation and which is a vital problem for ABP's application in the tissue engineered heart valve (TEHV). In the present study, we treated acellular BP with acetic acid, which increased the scaffold pore size and porosity and conjugated RGD polypeptides to ABP scaffolds. After 10 days of culture in vitro, the human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) attached the best and proliferated the fastest on RGD-modified acellular scaffolds, and the cell has grown deep into the scaffold. In contrast, a low density of cells attached to the unmodified scaffolds, with few infiltrating into the acellular tissues. These findings support the potential use of modified acellular BP as a scaffold for tissue engineered heart valves.
Calcification capacity of porous pHEMA-TiO composite hydrogels.	Many investigations have been attempted to promote calcification of synthetic polymers for applications as orthopaedic and dental implants. In this study, novel titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) reinforced porous poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate) (pHEMA) hydrogels were synthesized. Calcification capacity of the composite polymers was examined using light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy after incubation of the materials in a simulated body fluid up to 53 days. Mechanical strength, porosity and in vitro cytotoxicity were also investigated. Calcification capacity of porous pHEMA was significantly enhanced by the addition of TiO(2) particulates. Infiltration of calcium phosphate, up to 1000 mum, was observed. The diffusion capacity of calcium ions was affected by the porosity and the interconnectivity of pores in the hydrogel polymers which were influenced by the presence of TiO(2) and the monomer concentration. Cell viability tests indicated that porous hydrogels containing 7.5% TiO(2) were not toxic to 3T3 fibroblast cells. These results demonstrate that incorporating TiO(2) nanoparticulates can promote enhanced formation of calcium phosphate whilst maintaining the porosity and interconnectivity of the hydrogel polymers and would be very useful for the development of orthopaedic tissue engineering scaffolds.
Collagen density significantly affects the functional properties of an engineered provisional scaffold.	The formation of a provisional scaffold is essential in wound healing. However, for tissues inside of joints, this process is impeded by the synovial fluid environment and wound healing is significantly impaired as a result. Therefore, development of substitute provisional scaffolds which are effective in the intra-articular environment is of great interest. Collagen-platelet hydrogels have recently been found useful as substitute provisional scaffolding materials. In this study, our hypothesis was that increasing the collagen density in the hydrogel would result in physiologic changes that would be likely to affect their function as provisional scaffold substitutes. The primary functional outcome measures were modulus of the hydrogel, platelet activation, fibroblast proliferation, and scaffold retraction. Increased collagen density resulted in collagen-platelet hydrogels with a higher storage modulus. Platelet activation was not found to be dependent on the collagen density within the range tested. Increasing the collagen density had a suppressive effect on both fibroblast proliferation and scaffold retraction. These studies suggest that the collagen density may be able to significantly influence the function of collagen-platelet hydrogels used as substitute provisional scaffolds.
The application of atelocollagen gel in combination with porous scaffolds for cartilage tissue engineering and its suitable conditions.	For improving the quality of tissue-engineered cartilage, we examined the in vivo usefulness of porous bodies as scaffolds combined with an atelocollagen hydrogel, and investigated the suitable conditions for atelocollagen and seeding cells within the engineered tissues. We made tissue-engineered constructs using a collagen sponge (CS) or porous poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) with human chondrocytes and 1% hydrogel, the concentration of which maximized the accumulation of cartilage matrices. The CS was soft with a Young's modulus of less than 1 MPa, whereas the porous PLLA was very rigid with a Young's modulus of 10 MPa. Although the constructs with the CS shrank to 50% in size after a 2-month subcutaneous transplantation in nude mice, the PLLA constructs maintained their original sizes. Both of the porous scaffolds contained some cartilage regeneration in the presence of the chondrocytes and hydrogel, but the PLLA counterpart significantly accumulated abundant matrices in vivo. Regarding the conditions of the chondrocytes, the cartilage regeneration was improved in inverse proportion to the passage numbers among passages 3-8, and was linear with the cell densities (10(6) to 10(8) cells/mL). Thus, the rigid porous scaffold can maintain the size of the tissue-engineered cartilage and realize fair cartilage regeneration in vivo when combined with 1% atelocollagen and some conditioned chondrocytes.
Study of the electrospun PLA/silk fibroin-gelatin composite nanofibrous scaffold for tissue engineering.	In this article, a nanofibrous composite scaffold of poly L-lactic acid(PLA)/silk fibroin(SF)-gelatin was fabricated by multilayer electrospinning. To investigate the feasibility of PLA/SF-gelatin use as scaffolds, the porosity and mechanical properties were examined; in particular, the biocompatibilities were evaluated in vivo and in vitro by the means of cell adhesion and cytotoxicity testing, short-term subcutaneous implantation testing, and acute hemolysis testing according to the requirements of ISO 10993. The results showed the scaffold achieved the desirable levels of pliability (elastic up to 7.3% strain) and the appropriate breaking strength (2.22 MPa). The porosity of the SF-gelatin layer was 87% and the pore diameter was 142 nm. After 12 days of cultivation, SEM observation demonstrated the scaffold was nontoxic, biocompatible, and capable of supporting 3T3 mouse fibroblasts attachment, spreading, and growth. The hemolysis test proved the scaffolds with hemolytic rates from 3.1 to 4.5%. The subcutaneous implantation test indicated minor inflammatory reactions surrounding the scaffolds and biodegradation were initially observed in about 3 months. The desired porous structure, strong and pliable properties, combined with the ability of PLA/SF-gelatin scaffold to support cell growth in vitro, especially excellent biocompatibility in vivo, suggested potential application for tissue engineering scaffolds.
Regression and persistence: remodelling in a tissue engineered axial vascular assembly.	In later stages of vasculoangiogenesis a vascular network is going through a metamorphosis for optimal perfusion and economy of energy. In this study we make a quantitative approach to phenomena of remodelling in a bioartificial neovascular network and suggest variance of calibre as a parameter of neovascular maturation. For this study, 18 male Lewis rats were subjected to the AV loop operation in combination with a hard porous biogenic matrix and an isolation chamber. The animals were allocated into three groups for different explantation intervals set to 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Collective attributes like vascular density, percent fractional area and variance of calibre were evaluated for a predefined region of interest (ROI). Late morphogenesis was evaluated by means of scanning electron microscopy. After the fourth week the absolute number of vessels within the ROI decreased (P < 0.03) whereas, on the contrary, the fractional area of all segments increased (P < 0.02). The variance in calibre was significantly increased in the 8-week group (P < 0.05). Lymphatic growth after week 4, early pericyte migration as well as intussusceptive angiogenesis were identified immunohistologically. Phenomena of remodelling were evaluated quantitatively in a neovascular network and variance could be proposed as a parameter of net vascular maturation.
Fabrication and characterization of biodegradable nanofibrous mats by mix and coaxial electrospinning.	The aim of this study is to investigate an innovative tissue engineering scaffold with a controllable drug-releasing capability. The hypothesis is that the nanofibers fabricated by coaxial electrospinning could encapsulate and release sustainedly Tetracycline Hydrochloride (TCH). To testify the hypothesis, nanofibers were prepared by coaxial electrospinning from Poly(L-lactid-co-epsilon-caprolactone) [PLLACL]/2,2,2-Frifluoroethanol (TFE) solutions (as the shell solutions) and TCH/TFE solutions (as the core solutions). In addition, nanofibers of PLLACL-blend-TCH were also prepared as the control by mix electrospinning. The relationship between fibers morphologies and processed conditions in electrospinning were investigated. TCH release behaviors from the nanofibrous mats were studied. The antibacterial properties of aforementioned nanofibers were detected by the Escherichia coli growth-inhibiting tests. The results indicated that the nanofibers prepared by coaxial-electrospinning had the desired and controllable TCH encapsulation/release profile; thus, it could be utilized as both a drug encapsulation/release vehicle and a tissue engineering scaffold.
Regenerative medicine in orthopaedics. Cell therapy - tissue engineering - in situ regeneration]	Therapeutic approaches in regenerative medicine, irrespective of specific fields, comprise cell therapy, tissue engineering and in situ regeneration. Regenerative orthopaedics often leads the way on the path to clinical application. In cell therapy primary cells could be replaced by adult mesenchymal stem cells exhibiting almost unlimited regeneration capacity. More sophisticated biomaterial design allowing specific control of cell morphology and tissue organisation is the current focus of advancements in tissue engineering, while signalling to cells by intelligent biomaterials is a main focus of in situ regeneration. These new approaches to the reconstruction of structures and function in damaged or dysfunctional tissue will make it more often possible to achieve a sustainable improvement in terms of real regeneration rather than an acceptable repair.
Reconstruction of a tissue-engineered cornea with porcine corneal acellular matrix as the scaffold.	Interest in developing tissue-engineered cornea has increased with the decrease in the supply of donor tissue. The aim of the present study was to investigate the feasibility and method of reconstructing corneal equivalents with porcine corneal acellular matrix as the scaffold in a dynamic culturing system. Applying the detergent Triton X-100 (1%) and a freeze-drying process, porcine corneas were decellularized and prepared as a scaffold, and hematoxylin-eosin staining and scanning electron microscopy showed no cells in the decellularized stroma. In order to measure the in vivo biocompatibility, part of the scaffold was transplanted into a pocket of rabbit corneal stroma and observed for 3 months. No sign of rejection were observed, and the acellular matrix gradually integrated in the rabbit cornea, indicating that the scaffold had good biocompatibility. To reconstruct a tissue-engineered cornea, cultured rabbit keratocytes were seeded into the scaffold. After 1 week of culture in a culturing vessel, rabbit epithelial and endothelial cells were seeded on both sides of the stroma, respectively. The reconstructed cornea consisted of three layers in histological structure: the epithelium, stoma and endothelium. Stratified epithelial cells formed on the surface, which were cytokeratin 3 positive in the cytoplasm; endothelial cell monolayers were located on the inner side, and pump-related aquaporin 1 was found in the cells. These results confirmed that the corneal acellular matrix can be used as a scaffold for tissue-engineered cornea, and a biological corneal equivalent can be reconstructed in a dynamic culturing system.
Construction of collagen II/hyaluronate/chondroitin-6-sulfate tri-copolymer scaffold for nucleus pulposus tissue engineering and preliminary analysis of its physico-chemical properties and biocompatibility.	To construct a novel scaffold for nucleus pulposus (NP) tissue engineering, The porous type II collagen (CII)/hyaluronate (HyA)-chondroitin-6-sulfate (6-CS) scaffold was prepared using 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide (EDC) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) cross-linking system. The physico-chemical properties and biocompatibility of CII/HyA-CS scaffolds were evaluated. The results suggested CII/HyA-CS scaffolds have a highly porous structure (porosity: 94.8 +/- 1.5%), high water-binding capacity (79.2 +/- 2.8%) and significantly improved mechanical stability by EDC/NHS crosslinking (denaturation temperature: 74.6 +/- 1.8 and 58.1 +/- 2.6 degrees C, respectively, for the crosslinked scaffolds and the non-crosslinked; collagenase degradation rate: 39.5 +/- 3.4 and 63.5 +/- 2.0%, respectively, for the crosslinked scaffolds and the non-crosslinked). The CII/HyA-CS scaffolds also showed satisfactory cytocompatibility and histocompatibility as well as low immunogenicity. These results indicate CII/HyA-CS scaffolds may be an alternative material for NP tissue engineering due to the similarity of its composition and physico-chemical properties to those of the extracellular matrices (ECM) of native NP.
Centrifugal seeding of mammalian cells in nonwoven fibrous matrices.	Three-dimensional (3D) cell cultures have many advantages over two-dimensional cultures. However, seeding cells in 3D scaffolds such as nonwoven fibrous polyethylene terephthalate (PET) matrices has been a challenge task in tissue engineering and cell culture bioprocessing. In this study, a centrifugal seeding method was investigated to improve the cell seeding efficiency in PET matrices with two different porosities (93% and 88%). Both the centrifugal force and centrifugation time were found to affect the seeding efficiency. With an appropriate centrifugation speed, a high 80-90% cell seeding efficiency was achieved and the time to reach this high seeding efficiency was less than 5 min. The seeding efficiency was similar for matrices with different porosities, although the optimal seeding time was significantly shorter for the low-porosity scaffold. Post seeding cell viability was demonstrated by culturing colon cancer cells seeded in PET matrices for over 5 days. The centrifugal seeding method developed in this work can be used to efficiently and uniformly seed small fibrous scaffolds for applications in 3D cell-based assays for high-throughput screening.
Engineering anatomically shaped human bone grafts.	The ability to engineer anatomically correct pieces of viable and functional human bone would have tremendous potential for bone reconstructions after congenital defects, cancer resections, and trauma. We report that clinically sized, anatomically shaped, viable human bone grafts can be engineered by using human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and a "biomimetic" scaffold-bioreactor system. We selected the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) condylar bone as our tissue model, because of its clinical importance and the challenges associated with its complex shape. Anatomically shaped scaffolds were generated from fully decellularized trabecular bone by using digitized clinical images, seeded with hMSCs, and cultured with interstitial flow of culture medium. A bioreactor with a chamber in the exact shape of a human TMJ was designed for controllable perfusion throughout the engineered construct. By 5 weeks of cultivation, tissue growth was evidenced by the formation of confluent layers of lamellar bone (by scanning electron microscopy), markedly increased volume of mineralized matrix (by quantitative microcomputer tomography), and the formation of osteoids (histologically). Within bone grafts of this size and complexity cells were fully viable at a physiologic density, likely an important factor of graft function. Moreover, the density and architecture of bone matrix correlated with the intensity and pattern of the interstitial flow, as determined in experimental and modeling studies. This approach has potential to overcome a critical hurdle-in vitro cultivation of viable bone grafts of complex geometries-to provide patient-specific bone grafts for craniofacial and orthopedic reconstructions.
Effects of exogenous glycosaminoglycans on human chondrocytes cultivated on type II collagen scaffolds.	Cartilage extracellular matrix (ECM) is composed primarily of type II collagen (COL II) and large, networks of proteoglycans (PGs) that contain glycosaminoglycans such as hyaluronic acid (HA) and chondroitin sulfate (CS). Since cartilage shows little tendency for self-repair, injuries are kept unhealed for years and can eventually lead to further degeneration. During the past decades, many investigations have pursued techniques to stimulate articular cartilage repair or regeneration. The current study assessed the effects of exogenous glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) including CS-A, CS-B, CS-C, heparan sulfate and HA, administration on human chondrocytes in terms of proliferation and matrix synthesis, while the cells were seeded and grown on the genipin-crosslinked collagen type II (COL II) scaffold. DNA content was measured by Hoechst dye intercalation, matrix deposition was evaluated by DMMB dye. Expression of collagen II and aggrecan mRNAs was assessed by RT-PCR, followed by gel electrophoresis. In a 28-day in vitro culture, administration of 5 microg/ml CS-A, 50 microg/ml CS-B, 50 microg/ml CS-C, 5 microg/ml HS, and 500 kDa HA led to significant increase in biosynthesis rate of PGs. Gene expression of aggrecan and collagen II were upregulated by CS-A, CS-C and HA. These results showed considerable relevance of GAGs to the issue of in vitro/ex vivo neo-cartilage synthesis for tissue engineering and regenerative medical applications.
Osteogenic activity of human periosteal sheets cultured on salmon collagen-coated ePTFE meshes.	Our animal implantation studies have demonstrated that, after osteogenic processing, cultured human periosteal sheets form osteoid tissue ectopically without the aid of conventional scaffolding materials. To improve the osteogenic activity of these periosteal sheets, we have tested the effects of including a scaffold made of salmon collagen-coated ePTFE mesh. Periosteal sheets were produced with minimal manipulation without enzymatic digestion. Outgrown cells penetrated into the coated mesh fiber networks to form complex multicellular layers and increased expression of alkaline phosphatase activity in response to the osteoinduction. In vitro mineralization was notably enhanced in the original tissue segment regions, but numerous micro-mineral deposits were also formed on the coated-fiber networks. When implanted subcutaneously into nude mice, periosteal sheets efficiently form osteoid around the mineral deposits. These findings suggest that the intricate three-dimensional mesh composed of collagen-coated fibers substantially augmented the osteogenic activity of human periosteal sheets both in vitro and in vivo.
Osmolarity effects on bovine articular chondrocytes during three-dimensional culture in alginate beads.	With the development of engineered cartilage, the determination of the appropriate culture conditions is vital in order to maximize extracellular matrix synthesis. As osmolarity could affect the fate of chondrocytes, the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of osmolarity on chondrocytes during relatively long-term culture.
Supercritical phase inversion of starch-poly(epsilon-caprolactone) for tissue engineering applications.	In this work, a starch-based polymer, namely a blend of starch-poly(epsilon-caprolactone) was processed by supercritical assisted phase inversion process. This processing technique has been proposed for the development of 3D structures with potential applications in tissue engineering applications, as scaffolds. The use of carbon dioxide as non-solvent in the phase inversion process leads to the formation of a porous and interconnected structure, dry and free of any residual solvent. Different processing conditions such as pressure (from 80 up to 150 bar) and temperature (45 and 55 degrees C) were studied and the effect on the morphological features of the scaffolds was evaluated by scanning electron microscopy and micro-computed tomography. The mechanical properties of the SPCL scaffolds prepared were also studied. Additionally, in this work, the in vitro biological performance of the scaffolds was studied. Cell adhesion and morphology, viability and proliferation was assessed and the results suggest that the materials prepared are allow cell attachment and promote cell proliferation having thus potential to be used in some for biomedical applications.
A bioactive polymer grafted on titanium oxide layer obtained by electrochemical oxidation. Improvement of cell response.	The anchorage failure of titanium implants in human body is mainly due to biointegration problem. The proposed solution is to graft a bioactive polymer at the surface of the implant in order to improve and control the interactions with the living system. In this paper, we describe the grafting of poly sodium styrene sulfonate on titanium surface by using a silanization reaction. The key point is to increase the TiOH content at the surface of the implant which can react with methoxy silane groups of 3-methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane (MPS). Two procedures were used: chemical oxidation and electrochemical oxidation. The last oxidation procedure was carried out in two different electrolytes: oxalic acid and methanol. These different oxidation methods allow controlling the roughness and the depth of the oxide layer. The methacryloyl group of MPS grafted at the titanium surface by silanization reaction is copolymerized with sodium styrene sulfonate using a thermal initiator able to produce radicals by heating. Colorimetric method, ATR-FTIR, XPS techniques and contact angle measurements were applied to characterize the surfaces. MG63 osteoblastic cell response was studied on polished, oxidized and grafted titanium samples. Cell adhesion, Alkaline Phosphatase activity and calcium nodules formation were significantly enhanced on grafted titanium surfaces compared to un-modified surfaces.
Interrogating functional integration between injected pluripotent stem cell-derived cells and surrogate cardiac tissue.	Myocardial infarction resulting in irreversible loss of cardiomyocytes (CMs) remains a leading cause of heart failure. Although cell transplantation has modestly improved cardiac function, major challenges including increasing cell survival, engraftment, and functional integration with host tissue, remain. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs), which can be differentiated into cardiac progenitors (CPs) and CMs, represent a candidate cell source for cardiac cell therapy. However, it is not known what specific cell type or condition is the most appropriate for transplantation. This problem is exasperated by the lack of efficient and predictive strategies to screen the large numbers of parameters that may impact cell transplantation. We used a cardiac tissue model, engineered heart tissue (EHT), and quantitative molecular and electrophysiological analyses, to test transplantation conditions and specific cell populations for their potential to functionally integrate with the host tissue. In this study, we validated our analytical platform using contractile mouse neonatal CMs (nCMs) and noncontractile cardiac fibroblasts (cFBs), and screened for the integration potential of ESC-derived CMs and CPs (ESC-CMs and -CPs). Consistent with previous in vivo studies, cFB injection interfered with electrical signal propagation, whereas injected nCMs improved tissue function. Purified bioreactor-generated ESC-CMs exhibited a diminished capacity for electrophysiological integration; a result correlated with lower (compared with nCMs) connexin 43 expression. ESC-CPs, however, appeared able to appropriately mature and integrate into EHT, enhancing the amplitude of tissue contraction. Our results support the use of EHT as a model system to accelerate development of cardiac cell therapy strategies.
Naturally derived materials-based cell and drug delivery systems in skin regeneration.	The objective of regenerative medicine is to provide cells with a local environment of artificial extracellular matrix where they can proliferate and differentiate efficiently and therefore, induce the repair of defective tissues according to the natural healing potential of patients. For this purpose, naturally derived materials are being widely used because of their similarities to the extracellular matrix, typically good biocharacteristics and inherent cellular interaction. Also, natural polymers can be engineered to release growth factors and related agents in response to physiologic signals to imitate the natural healing process and to promote fast tissue regeneration and reduce scarring in wounds. Although synthetic materials have been used extensively in tissue engineering fields, this review illustrates the contribution of natural materials and natural materials-based protein delivery systems to regenerative medicine research, with emphasis on the application of multifunctional vehicles for cell and growth factor delivery in skin regeneration research.
In vitro bioactivity of sol-gel-derived hydroxyapatite particulate nanofiber modified titanium.	A chemically-etched titanium surface was modified by electrospinning a sol-gel-derived hydroxyapatite (HAp) that was subjected to calcination within the temperature range of 200-1400 degrees C in the normative atmospheric condition. After heat treatment, crystal structures of the filmed titanium oxide and HAp on the titanium's surface were identified using wide-angle X-ray diffraction. A highly porous layer of HAp was found to have formed on the oxidized titanium surfaces. The surfaces of three different samples; (1) electrospun HAp, (2) HAp calcined at 600 degrees C, and (3) HAp calcined at 800 degrees C, were investigated for their ability to foster promotion, proliferation, and differentiation of human osteoblasts (HOB) (in the 9th passage) in vitro up to 6 days. Among the three samples, cells cultured on the HAp calcined at 800 degrees C titanium surfaces displayed the best results with regard to adhesion, growth, and proliferation of HOB. This novel method for fabrication of titanium substrates would provide a promising improvement for titanium-based medical devices over the current standards, which lack such substrates. These titanium substrates explicitly provide enhanced HOB proliferation in terms of both desired surface properties and their produced bulk quantity.
Physico-chemical and in vitro biological evaluation of strontium/calcium silicophosphate glass.	Strontium is known to reduce bone resorption and stimulate bone formation. Incorporation of strontium into calcium phosphate bioceramics has been widely reported. In this work, calcium and calcium/strontium silicophosphate glasses were synthesized from the sol-gel process and their rheological, thermal, and in vitro biological properties were studied and compared to each other. The results showed that the gel viscosity and thus the rate of gel formation increased by using strontium in glass composition and by increasing aging temperature. In strontium-containing glass, the crystallization temperature increased and the type of the crystallized phase was different to that of strontium-free glass. Both glasses favored precipitation of calcium phosphate layer when they were soaked in simulated body fluid; however strontium seemed to retard the rate of precipitation slightly. The in vitro biodegradation rate of the strontium/calcium silicophosphate glass was higher than that of strontium-free one. The cell culture experiments carried out using rat calvaria osteoblasts showed that the incorporation of strontium into the glass composition stimulated proliferation of the cells and enhanced their alkaline phosphatase activity, depending on cell culture period.
Thick soft tissue reconstruction on highly perfusive biodegradable scaffolds.	The lack of a vascular network and poor perfusion is what mostly prevents three-dimensional (3D) scaffolds from being used in organ repair when reconstruction of thick tissues is needed. Highly-porous scaffolds made of poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) are prepared by directional thermally induced phase separation (dTIPS) starting from 1,4-dioxane/PLLA solutions. The influence of polymer concentration and temperature gradient, in terms of imposed intensity and direction, on pore size and distribution is studied by comparison with scaffolds prepared by isotropic TIPS. The processing parameters are optimized to achieve an overall porosity for the 3D scaffolds of about 93% with a degree of interconnectivity of 91%. The resulting pore network is characterized by the ordered repetition of closely packed dendrite-like cavities, each one showing stacks of 20 microm large side lamellar branches departing from 70 microm diameter vertical backbones, strongly resembling the vascular patterns. The in vitro biological responses after 1 and 2 weeks are evaluated from mesenchymal (bone marrow stromal) cells (MSC) static culturing. A novel vacuum-based deep-seeding method is set up to improve uniform cell penetration down to scaffold thicknesses of over 1 mm. Biological screenings show significant 3D scaffold colonization even after 18 h, while cellular retention is observed up to 14 d in vitro (DIV). Pore architecture-driven cellular growth is accompanied by cell tendency to preserve their multi-potency towards differentiation. Confluent tissues as thick as 1 mm were reconstructed taking advantage of the large perfusion enhanced by the highly porous microstructure of the engineered scaffolds, which could successfully serve for applications aimed at vascular nets and angiogenesis.
In vitro study in the endothelial cell compatibility and endothelialization of genipin-crosslinked biological tissues for tissue-engineered vascular scaffolds.	To overcome the cytotoxicity of the chemical reagents used to fix bioprostheses, genipin, a naturally occurring crosslinking agent, was used to fix biological tissues in present study. We prepared the biological vascular scaffolds through cell extraction and fixing the porcine thoracic arteries with 1% (by w/v) genipin solution for 3 days, and then examined their mechanical properties and microstructures; glutaraldehyde- and epoxy-fixed counterparts were used as controls. HUVECs were seeded on the type I collagen-coated surface of different modified acellular vascular tissues (fixed with different crosslinking agents), and the growths of HUVECs on the specimens were demonstrated by means of MTT test, the secretion of PGI2 and vWF by HUVECs on the various specimens was also measured. Finally, HUVECs were seeded on the luminal surface of acellular biological vascular scaffolds (<6 mm internal diameter) which were, respectively, treated in the same manner described above, and then cultured for 9 days. On the ninth day, the HUVECs on the luminal surface of these vascular scaffolds were examined morphologically and by immunohistochemistry. Genipin-fixation can markedly diminish antigenicity of the vascular tissues through partially getting rid of cell or reducing the level of free amino groups in the vascular tissues. Genipin-fixed acellular vascular tissues mimicked the natural vessels due to the maintenance of the integrity of total structure and the large preservation of the microstructures of collagen fibers and elastic fibers; therefore, it appeared suitable to fabricate vascular scaffolds in mechanical properties. Compared to controls, the genipin-fixed acellular vascular tissues were characterized by low cytotoxicity and good cytocompatibility. The HUVECs can not only proliferate well on the genipin-fixed acellular vascular tissues, but also preserve the activities and function of endothelial cells, and easily make it endothelialized in vitro. The results showed that the genipin-fixed acellular porcine vascular scaffolds should be promising materials for fabricating vascular grafts or the scaffolds of tissue-engineered blood vessels.
The pro-angiogenic factor CCN1 enhances the re-endothelialization of biological vascularized matrices in vitro.	A problem in generating artificial tissues is supplying nutrients to cells within 3D constructs. The use of a decellularized biological vascularized matrix with preserved pedicles (BioVaM), as a scaffold, appears to aid the generation of perfusable tissue constructs in vitro. To prevent vessel occlusion upon implantation, a functional endothelium must line the graft vessel bed. Here we tested whether the pro-angiogenic factor CCN1 could improve the re-endothelialization of BioVaM in vitro.
A multichamber fluidic device for 3D cultures under interstitial flow with live imaging: development, characterization, and applications.	Interstitial flow is an important biophysical cue that can affect capillary morphogenesis, tumor cell migration, and fibroblast remodeling of the extracellular matrix, among others. Current models that incorporate interstitial flow and that are suitable for live imaging lack the ability to perform multiple simultaneous experiments, for example, to compare effects of growth factors, extracellular matrix composition, etc. We present a nine-chamber radial flow device that allows simultaneous 3D fluidic experiments for relatively long-term culture with live imaging capabilities. Flow velocity profiles were characterized by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) for flow uniformity and estimating the hydraulic conductivity. We demonstrate lymphatic and blood capillary morphogenesis in fibrin gels over 10 days, comparing flow with static conditions as well as the effects of an engineered variant of VEGF that binds fibrin via Factor XIII. We also demonstrate the culture of contractile fibroblasts and co-cultures with tumor cells for modeling the tumor microenvironment. Therefore, this device is useful for studies of capillary morphogenesis, cell migration, contractile cells like fibroblasts, and multicellular cultures, all under interstitial flow.
Development and characterization of a three-dimensional organotypic human vaginal epithelial cell model.	We have developed an in vitro human vaginal epithelial cell (EC) model using the innovative rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactor technology that recapitulates in vivo structural and functional properties, including a stratified squamous epithelium with microvilli, tight junctions, microfolds, and mucus. This three-dimensional (3-D) vaginal model provides a platform for high-throughput toxicity testing of candidate microbicides targeted to combat sexually transmitted infections, effectively complementing and extending existing testing systems such as surgical explants or animal models. Vaginal ECs were grown on porous, collagen-coated microcarrier beads in a rotating, low fluid-shear environment; use of RWV bioreactor technology generated 3-D vaginal EC aggregates. Immunofluorescence and scanning and transmission electron microscopy confirmed differentiation and polarization of the 3-D EC aggregates among multiple cell layers and identified ultrastructural features important for nutrient absorption, cell-cell interactions, and pathogen defense. After treatment with a variety of toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists, cytokine production was quantified by cytometric bead array, confirming that TLRs 2, 3, 5, and 6 were expressed and functional. The 3-D vaginal aggregates were more resistant to nonoxynol-9 (N-9), a contraceptive and previous microbicide candidate, when compared to two-dimensional monolayers of the same cell line. A dose-dependent production of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, biomarkers of cervicovaginal inflammation, correlated to microbicide toxicity in the 3-D model following N-9 treatment. These results indicate that this 3-D vaginal model could be used as a complementary tool for screening microbicide compounds for safety and efficacy, thus improving success in clinical trials.
Toward engineering a human neoendothelium with circulating progenitor cells.	Tissue-engineered vascular grafts may one day provide a solution to many of the limitations associated with using synthetic vascular grafts. However, identifying a suitable cell source and polymer scaffold to recreate the properties of a native blood vessel remains a challenge. In this work, we assess the feasibility of using endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) found in circulating blood to generate a functional endothelium on poly(1,8-octanediol-co-citrate) (POC), a biodegradable elastomeric polyester. EPCs were isolated from human blood and biochemically differentiated into endothelial-like cells (HE-like) in vitro. The differentiated cell phenotype and function was confirmed by the appearance of the characteristic endothelial cell (EC) cobblestone morphology and positive staining for EC markers, von Willebrand factor, vascular endothelial cadherin, flk-1, and CD31. In addition, HE-like cells cultured on POC express endothelial nitric oxide synthase at levels comparable to aortic ECs. Furthermore, as with mature endothelial cells, HE-like cell populations show negligible expression of tissue factor. Similarly, HE-like cells produce and secrete prostacyclin and tissue plasminogen activator at levels comparable to venous and aortic ECs. When compared to fibroblast cells, HE-like cells cultured on POC show a decrease in the rate of plasma and whole-blood clot formation as well as a decrease in platelet adhesion. Finally, the data show that HE-like cells can withstand physiological shear stress of 10 dynes/cm(2) when cultured on POC-modified expanded poly(tetrafluoroethylene) vascular grafts. Collectively, these data are the foundation for future clinical studies in the creation of an autologous endothelial cell-seeded vascular graft.
Intramuscular transplantation of engineered hepatic tissue constructs corrects acute and chronic liver failure in mice.	Transplantation of isolated hepatocytes holds great promise as an alternative to whole organ liver transplantation. For treatment of liver failure, access to the portal circulation has significant risks and intrahepatic hepatocyte engraftment is poor. In advanced cirrhosis, transplantation into an extrahepatic site is necessary and intrasplenic engraftment is short-lived. Strategies that allow repeated extrahepatic infusion of hepatocytes could improve the efficacy and safety of hepatocyte transplantation for the treatment of liver failure.
Physicochemical and biological activity study of genipin-crosslinked chitosan scaffolds prepared by using supercritical carbon dioxide for tissue engineering applications.	The present study deals with the preparation of porous chitosan scaffolds by using a greener technique i.e., supercritical carbon dioxide (sc.CO2). 0.2 M chitosan (CS) solution in aqueous acetic acid was treated with 4% (w/v) genipin solution; the resulting hydrogels were subjected to solvent exchange prior to the final treatment procedures. Their morphology, pore structure, and physical properties were characterized by thermal analysis, X-ray diffractogram (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and the specific surface areas and porosimetry of scaffolds were determined by using N2 adsorption. The biological activity of scaffolds was investigated by immersing them into 1.5 x simulated body fluid (SBF) and cellular attachment study was assessed using Alamar Blue assay by seeding MG63 osteoblastic cells onto the scaffolds. The sc.CO2 assisted chitosan scaffold prepared by using green chemistry approach is highly pure and bioactive and can be served as a potential material for tissue engineering applications.
Ex vivo bone morphogenetic protein-2 gene delivery using gingival fibroblasts promotes bone regeneration in rats.	The aim of the present study was to investigate bone regeneration following ex vivo bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) gene delivery using human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs) in rat calvarial defects.
Engineering strategies to emulate the stem cell niche.	The stem cell niche is an anatomical site that contains a reservoir of multipotent stem cells (SCs) that can maintain normal tissue, or replenish injured or aged cell populations, in response to mechanisms that regulate whether they should remain quiescent, undergo self-renewal, or differentiate. The choice among these hallmark SC behaviors is governed by intricate soluble and "solid phase" signals that are systemic or presented by the local niche cells. In this review, we discuss the progress achieved in understanding the mechanisms and principles that govern microenvironmental regulation of SC behavior, and focus on novel approaches that have been developed to synthesize this basic information to engineer creative strategies for harnessing and controlling SCs ex vivo and in vivo.
Generation and manipulation of magnetic multicellular spheroids.	Multicellular spheroids have important applications in tumour studies, drug screening and tissue engineering. To enable simple manipulation of spheroids, magnetically labelled HeLa cells were cultured in hanging drops to generate magnetic spheroids. HeLa cells were labelled by biotinylating their cell membrane proteins and then binding streptavidin paramagnetic particles onto the biotinylated cell surface. Spheroids of different sizes were obtained by varying the seeding cell concentrations within the hanging drops and the spheroids had good cell viability. Characterisation of the F-actin distribution within the spheroids indicated a three dimensional reorganisation of the cellular cytoskeleton compared to monolayer cultures. The magnetic moment of the spheroids was measured and showed a superparamagnetic response in an applied field. Transmission electron microscopy analysis indicated that the paramagnetic particles were still present in the spheroids even after 21 days of culture. These spheroids could be easily and quickly separated magnetically without the need for centrifugation. The magnetic spheroids were also successfully manipulated and patterned using magnetic fields within a few seconds. The patterned spheroids then fused together to form a larger tissue construct.
Can tissue engineering concepts advance tumor biology research?	Advances in tissue engineering have traditionally led to the design of scaffold- or matrix-based culture systems that better reflect the biological, physical and biochemical environment of the natural extracellular matrix. Although their clinical applications in regenerative medicine tend to receive most of the attention, it is obvious that other areas of biomedical research could be well served by the powerful tools that have already been developed in tissue engineering. In this article, we review the recent literature to demonstrate how tissue engineering platforms can enhance in vitro and in vivo models of tumorigenesis and thus hold great promise to contribute to future cancer research.
Engineered vascularized bone grafts.	Clinical protocols utilize bone marrow to seed synthetic and decellularized allogeneic bone grafts for enhancement of scaffold remodeling and fusion. Marrow-derived cytokines induce host neovascularization at the graft surface, but hypoxic conditions cause cell death at the core. Addition of cellular components that generate an extensive primitive plexus-like vascular network that would perfuse the entire scaffold upon anastomosis could potentially yield significantly higher-quality grafts. We used a mouse model to develop a two-stage protocol for generating vascularized bone grafts using mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) from human bone marrow and umbilical cord-derived endothelial cells. The endothelial cells formed tube-like structures and subsequently networks throughout the bone scaffold 4-7 days after implantation. hMSCs were essential for stable vasculature both in vitro and in vivo; however, contrary to expectations, vasculature derived from hMSCs briefly cultured in medium designed to maintain a proliferative, nondifferentiated state was more extensive and stable than that with hMSCs with a TGF-beta-induced smooth muscle cell phenotype. Anastomosis occurred by day 11, with most hMSCs associating closely with the network. Although initially immature and highly permeable, at 4 weeks the network was mature. Initiation of scaffold mineralization had also occurred by this period. Some human-derived vessels were still present at 5 months, but the majority of the graft vasculature had been functionally remodeled with host cells. In conclusion, clinically relevant progenitor sources for pericytes and endothelial cells can serve to generate highly functional microvascular networks for tissue engineered bone grafts.
Persistent hepatitis C virus infection in microscale primary human hepatocyte cultures.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) remains a major public health problem, affecting approximately 130 million people worldwide. HCV infection can lead to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and end-stage liver disease, as well as extrahepatic complications such as cryoglobulinemia and lymphoma. Preventative and therapeutic options are severely limited; there is no HCV vaccine available, and nonspecific, IFN-based treatments are frequently ineffective. Development of targeted antivirals has been hampered by the lack of robust HCV cell culture systems that reliably predict human responses. Here, we show the entire HCV life cycle recapitulated in micropatterned cocultures (MPCCs) of primary human hepatocytes and supportive stroma in a multiwell format. MPCCs form polarized cell layers expressing all known HCV entry factors and sustain viral replication for several weeks. When coupled with highly sensitive fluorescence- and luminescence-based reporter systems, MPCCs have potential as a high-throughput platform for simultaneous assessment of in vitro efficacy and toxicity profiles of anti-HCV therapeutics.
Autologous engineering of cartilage.	Treatment of full-thickness damage to hyaline cartilage is hampered by the limited availability of autologous healthy cartilage and the lengthy, cost-prohibitive cell isolation and expansion steps associated with autologous cartilage implantation (ACI). Here we report a strategy for de novo engineering of ectopic autologous cartilage (EAC) within the subperiosteal space (in vivo bioreactor), through the mere introduction of a biocompatible gel that might promote hypoxia-mediated chondrogenesis, thereby effectively overcoming the aforementioned limitations. The EAC is obtained within 3 wk post injection of the gel, and can be press-fit into an osteochondral defect where it undergoes remodeling with good lateral and subchondral integration. The implanted EAC showed no calcification even after 9 mo and attained an average O'Driscoll score of 11 (versus 4 for controls). An "on demand" autologous source of autologous cartilage with remodeling capacity is expected to significantly impact the clinical options in repair of trauma to articular cartilage.
Novel software-based and validated evaluation method for objective quantification of bone regeneration in experimental bone defects]	The quantification of newly formed bone in experimental defect models is a problem in various experimental set-ups. Several methods have been described to evaluate and quantify the regeneration of newly formed bone in various animal models. Most methods only describe the amount of regenerated tissue on a semi-quantitative level, the results significantly depend on the subjective rating of the observer and such evaluation methods have not been validated in terms of objectivity and reliability. The aim of the present study was to introduce a novel evaluation method for the accurate quantification of bone regeneration on digital X-ray images using a freely available digital image software analysis programme (GIMP, GNU General Public Licence).
Reconstruction of osteochondral defects with a stem cell-based cartilage-polymer construct in a small animal model]	Mesenchymal stem cells have a high therapeutic potential for the reconstruction of articular cartilage defects. In this study, a cartilage-polymer construct using mesenchymal stem cells from trabecular bone and a polylactic acid polymer was fabricated with a press-coating technique. We investigated whether cells from human trabecular bone fragments have the same chondrogenic differentiation potential as mesenchymal stem cells derived from bone marrow and whether it is possible to reconstruct an osteochondral lesion in the nude rat with the fabricated construct.
Engineered cartilage heals skull defects.	The purposes of this study were to differentiate embryonic limb bud cells into cartilage, characterize the nodules produced, and determine their ability to heal a mouse skull defect.
The preparation and cytocompatibility of injectable thermosensitive chitosan/poly(vinyl alcohol) hydrogel.	In order to investigate the strength, structure and cell cytocompatibility of injectable thermosensitive chitosan (CS)/poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) composite hydrogel, chitosan hydrochloride solution was transferred to a neutral pH and mixed with different proportions of PVA, then the gelation time and strength of these different hydrogels were tested and spatial structures were observed under a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) after freeze-drying. The cytocompatibility of the hydrogels was evaluated through cytotoxicity test and three-dimensional culture with bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. The results showed that the CS/PVA solution kept in liquid state at low temperature (0-4 degrees C) and turned into transparent elastomer about 15-20 min at 37 degrees C. Gelation time was prolonged, the strength increased and porous structure became dense with the PVA content increased in the mixed hydrogel. The cytotoxicity grades of these gels were from 0 to 1. Rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells could survive and proliferate in the gel within 3 weeks, and the gel had good cytocompatibility. It was concluded that thermosensitive CS/PVA composite hydrogel not only has interpenetrating network structure and better mechanical strength, but also has good cytocompatibility, and may be used as an injectable scaffold for tissue engineering.
Regenerative medicine for craniomaxillofacial surgery.	Regenerative medicine has recently seen much activity in basic and translational research. These advances are now making their way into surgical practice. A convergence of technologies has afforded opportunities previously not available with conventional surgical reconstructive techniques. Patients requiring complex reconstructive surgery in the craniomaxillofacial region typically benefit from local or regional flaps, nonvascularized grafts, microvascular tissue transfer, or substitute alloplastic materials to restore function and form. In these clinical situations, grafting procedures or alloplastic substitute materials provide best-case replacements for resected, injured, or congenitally missing tissues. However, ideal reconstructive goals, such as a complete return to original form and function, are frequently not completely achieved. Regenerative techniques now in clinical use and at the translational research stage hold promise for custom-tailored constructs with the potential to regenerate tissue in the host without significant donor site morbidity. These techniques may provide better structure, aesthetics, and function than the best currently available options. This article presents the latest concepts in craniomaxillofacial regenerative medicine and reviews the multipronged approach to restoring architecture using novel "smart" multifunctional scaffolds, cellular technologies, growth factors, and other novel regenerative medical strategies.
Heat treatment of electrospun silicate fiber substrates enhances cellular adhesion and proliferation.	Synthetic scaffolds support cell attachment in vitro. We prepared ultra-fine silicate fibers using the sol-gel process and electrospinning, heated the fibers to 500 degrees C and investigated their effects on the behavior of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells. Alterations in surface composition following heat treatment improved cell adhesion and influenced cell migration.
Growth and differentiation potentials in confluent state of culture of human skeletal muscle myoblasts.	The transitional behaviors of myoblasts toward differentiation were investigated in the cultures at the low and high seeding densities (respectively, X(0)=1.0x10(3) and 2.0x10(5) cells/cm(2)). In the culture at the low seeding density, an increase in confluence degree accompanied a decrease in growth potential (R(p)), being R(p)=0.85 and 0.11 at t=48 and 672 h, respectively. Myoblasts seeded at the high density resulted in the immediate cessation of growth with keeping the low range of R(p)=0.02-0.09 throughout the culture. The reduction of R(p) led to the generation of three subpopulations of cells in proliferative, quiescent and differentiated states. Close cell contacts in the confluent state of high seeding culture induced cell quiescence to a higher extent with suppressing differentiation.
Three-dimensional culture of human embryonic stem cell derived hepatic endoderm and its role in bioartificial liver construction.	The liver carries out a range of functions essential for bodily homeostasis. The impairment of liver functions has serious implications and is responsible for high rates of patient morbidity and mortality. Presently, liver transplantation remains the only effective treatment, but donor availability is a major limitation. Therefore, artificial and bioartificial liver devices have been developed to bridge patients to liver transplantation. Existing support devices improve hepatic encephalopathy to a certain extent; however their usage is associated with side effects. The major hindrance in the development of bioartificial liver devices and cellular therapies is the limited availability of human hepatocytes. Moreover, primary hepatocytes are difficult to maintain and lose hepatic identity and function over time even with sophisticated tissue culture media. To overcome this limitation, renewable cell sources are being explored. Human embryonic stem cells are one such cellular resource and have been shown to generate a reliable and reproducible supply of human hepatic endoderm. Therefore, the use of human embryonic stem cell-derived hepatic endoderm in combination with tissue engineering has the potential to pave the way for the development of novel bioartificial liver devices and predictive drug toxicity assays.
Use of human umbilical cord blood-derived progenitor cells for tissue-engineered heart valves.	Tissue engineering of autologous heart valves with the potential to grow and to remodel represents a promising concept. Here we describe the use of cryopreserved umbilical cord blood-derived CD133(+) cells as a single cell source for the tissue engineering of heart valves.
Engineered heart tissue: a novel tool to study the ischemic changes of the heart in vitro.	Understanding the basic mechanisms and prevention of any disease pattern lies mainly on development of a successful experimental model. Recently, engineered heart tissue (EHT) has been demonstrated to be a useful tool in experimental transplantation. Here, we demonstrate a novel function for the spontaneously contracting EHT as an experimental model in studying the acute ischemia-induced changes in vitro.
Therapeutic applications of hyaluronan.	Hyaluronan (HA), a multifunctional, high molecular weight glycosaminoglycan, is a component of the majority of extracellular matrices. HA is synthesised in a unique manner by a family of hyaluronan synthases, degraded by hyaluronidases and exerts a biological effect by binding to families of cellular receptors, the hyaladhedrins. Receptor binding activates signal pathways in endothelial cells leading to proliferation, migration and differentiation collectively termed angiogenesis. HA and associated enzymes are implicated in the aetiology of cardiovascular disease and cancer and manipulation of HA expression offers a therapeutic target. HA microspheres have been developed as drug delivery agents to deliver HA to sites of disease and also in diagnosis. In this review we discuss some of the recent therapeutic applications of hyaluronan in tissue repair, as a drug delivery system and the synthesis, application and delivery of hyaluronan nanoparticles to target drugs to sites of disease.
In vivo cyclic loading as a potent stimulatory signal for bone formation inside tissue engineering scaffold.	In clinical situations, bone defects are often located at load bearing sites. Tissue engineering scaffolds are future bone substitutes and hence they will be subjected to mechanical stimulation. The goal of this study was to test if cyclic loading can be used as stimulatory signal for bone formation in a bone scaffold. Poly(L-lactic acid) (PLA)/ 5% beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP) scaffolds were implanted in both distal femoral epiphyses of eight rats. Right knees were stimulated (10N, 4Hz, 5 min) five times, every two days, starting from the third day after surgery while left knees served as control. Finite element study of the in vivo model showed that the strain applied to the scaffold is similar to physiological strains. Using micro-computed tomography (CT), all knees were scanned five times after the surgery and the related bone parameters of the newly formed bone were quantified. Statistical modeling was used to estimate the evolution of these parameters as a function of time and loading. The results showed that mechanical stimulation had two effects on bone volume (BV): an initial decrease in BV at week 2, and a long-term increase in the rate of bone formation by 28%. At week 13, the BV was then significantly higher in the loaded scaffolds.
The current status of engineering myocardial tissue.	Myocardial infarction (MI) remains a common fatal disease all over the world. The adult cardiac myocytes regenerative capability is very limited after infarct injury. Heart transplantation would be the best therapeutic option currently but is restricted due to the lack of donor organs and the serious side effects of immune suppression. The emerging of tissue engineering has evolved to provide solutions to tissue repair and replacement. Engineering myocardial tissue is considered to be a new therapeutic approach to repair infarcted myocardium and ameliorate cardiac function after MI. Engineering myocardial tissue is the combination of biodegradable scaffolds with viable cells and has made much progress in the experimental phase. However, the largest challenge of this field is the revascularization of the engineering constructs to provide oxygen and nutrients for cells. This review will give an overview on the current evolution of engineering myocardial tissue and address a new method to improve the vascularization of myocardium tissue in vivo.
Computational discrete models of tissue growth and regeneration.	Tissue growth and regeneration are fundamental processes underpinning crucial physiological and pathological conditions: ranging from normal blood vessel network development, response to stem cells therapy and cancers. Modelling of such biological phenomena has been addressed through mathematical and algorithmic approaches. The former implements continuous representations based on differential equations. The latter exploit operational descriptions in the form of computing programs to represent and execute the models. Within this area, models that define the cell as the fundamental unit of model development, as well as discrete representations of different model entities, are important to plan in vitro experiments and to generate new testable hypotheses. This article reviews the application of algorithmic discrete models, with a focus on tissue growth and regeneration phenomena in the context of health and disease. The review begins with an overview of basic concepts, problems and approaches of computational discrete models. This will include a discussion of basic assumptions and design principles. An overview of key cell-driven approaches and examples of applications in tissue growth and regeneration is provided. The specification, implementation and analysis of a model are illustrated with a hypothetical example, which mimics the branching and sprouting patterns observed in blood vessel network development. The article concludes with a discussion of current challenges and recommendations.
Stem cells for skin tissue engineering and wound healing.	The tremendous ability of the skin's epidermis to regenerate is due to the presence of epidermal stem cells that continuously produce keratinocytes, which undergo terminal differentiation to a keratinized layer that provides the skin's barrier properties. The ability to control this process in vitro has made it possible to develop various types of tissue-engineered skin grafts, some of which are among the first tissue-engineered products to ever reach the market. In the past 30 years, these products have been applied with some success to the treatment of chronic skin wounds such as diabetic and venous ulcers and deep, acute wounds such as burns. Current technologies remain partially effective in their ability to restore other skin structures, for example, the dermis, which is critical to the overall long-term appearance and function of the skin. As yet, none of these approaches can regenerate skin appendages (e.g. hair follicles and sweat glands). The use of earlier progenitor and stem cells, including embryonic stem cells, is gaining interest in the attempt to overcome such limitations. Furthermore, recent evidence suggests that "adult" stem cells, which are present in the circulation, target areas of injury and likely participate in the wound-healing process. In this paper, we start with an overview of the wound-healing process and current methods used for wound treatment, both conventional and tissue-engineering based. We then review current research on the various types of stem cells used for skin tissue engineering and wound healing, and provide future directions.
Co-culture based blood-brain barrier in vitro model, a tissue engineering approach using immortalized cell lines for drug transport study.	This study evaluated the feasibility of using commercially available immortalized cell lines in building an in vitro blood-brain barrier (BBB) co-culture model for preliminary drug development studies. Astrocytes-derived acellular extracellular matrix (aECM) was introduced in the co-culture model to provide a novel biomimetic basement membrane for the endothelial cells to form tight junctions. Trans-Endothelial Electrical Resistance (TEER) and solute mass transport studies quantitatively evaluated the tight junction formation. Immuno-fluorescence microscopy and Western blot analysis qualitatively verified the expression of occludin, one of the tight junction proteins on the samples. Experimental data from a total of 13 experiments conclusively showed that the novel BBB in vitro co-culture model with aECM (CO+aECM) is promising in terms of establishing tight junction formation represented by TEER values, transport profiles, and tight junction protein expression when compared with traditional co-culture (CO) model setup or the endothelial cells cultured alone (EC). In vitro colorimetric sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay also revealed that the "CO+aECM" samples resulted in less cell loss on the basal sides of the insert membranes than traditional co-culture models. Our novel approach using immortalized cell lines with the addition of aECM was proven to be a feasible and repeatable alternative to the traditional BBB in vitro modeling.
In situ functionalization of wet-spun fibre meshes for bone tissue engineering.	Bone tissue engineering success strongly depends on our ability to develop new materials combining osteoconductive, osteoinductive and osteogenic properties. Recent studies suggest that biomaterials incorporating silanol (Si-OH) groups promote and maintain osteogenesis. The purpose of the present research work was to provide evidence that using wet-spinning technologies and a calcium silicate solution as a coagulation bath, it was possible to develop an in situ functionalization methodology to obtain 3D wet-spun fibre meshes with Si-OH groups, through a simple, economic and reliable process. SPCL (blend of starch with polycaprolactone) fibre meshes were produced by wet-spinning, using a calcium silicate solution as a non-solvent and functionalized in situ with Si-OH groups. In vitro tests, using goat bone marrow stromal cells (GBMSCs), showed that SPCL-Si scaffolds sustained cell viability and proliferation. Furthermore, high ALP activity and matrix production indicated that Si-OH groups improve cellular functionality towards the osteoblastic phenotype. Using this methodology, and assembling several wet-spun fibre meshes, 3D meshes can be developed, aiming at designing osteoconductive/osteoinductive 3D structures capable of stimulating bone ingrowth in vivo.
Impact of pre-existing elastic matrix on TGF1 and HA oligomer-induced regenerative elastin repair by rat aortic smooth muscle cells.	Regenerating elastic matrices lost to disease (e.g. in aneurysms) is vital to re-establishing vascular homeostasis but is challenged by the poor elastogenicity of post-neonatal cells. We previously showed that exogenous hyaluronan oligomers (HA-o) and TGF1 synergistically enhance tropo- and matrix elastin deposition by healthy adult rat aortic SMCs (RASMCs). Towards treating aortic aneurysms (AAs), which exhibit cause- and site-specific heterogeneity in matrix content/structure and contain proteolytically-injured SMCs, we investigated the impact of pre-existing elastic matrix degeneration on elastogenic induction of injured RASMCs. Elastin-rich RASMC layers at 21 days of culture were treated with 0.15 U/ml (PPE15) and 0.75 U/ml (PPE75) porcine pancreatic elastase to degrade the elastic matrix variably, or left uninjured (control). One set of cultures was harvested at 21 days, before and after injury, to quantify viable cell count, matrix elastin loss. Other injured cell layers were cultured to 42 days with or without factors (0.2 g/ml HA oligomers, 1 ng/ml TGF1). We showed that: (a) the ability of cultures to self-repair and regenerate elastic matrices following proteolysis is limited when elastolysis is severe; (b) HA oligomers and TGF1 elastogenically stimulate RASMCs in mildly-injured (i.e. PPE15) cultures to restore both elastic matrix amounts and elastic fibre deposition to levels in healthy cultures; and (c) in severely injured (i.e. PPE75) cultures, the factors stimulate matrix elastin synthesis and crosslinking, although not to control levels. The outcomes underscore the need to enhance elastogenic factor doses based on the severity of elastin loss. This study will help in customizing therapies for elastin regeneration within AAs, based on cause and location.
Effectiveness factor and diffusion limitations in collagen gel modules containing HepG2 cells.	A major obstacle in tissue engineering is overcoming hypoxia in thick, three-dimensional (3D) engineered tissues, which is caused by the diffusional limitations of oxygen and lack of internal vasculature to facilitate mass transfer. Modular tissue engineering is a bio-mimetic strategy that forms scalable, vascularized and uniform 3D constructs by assembling small (sub-mm), cell-containing modules. It was previously assumed that mass transfer resistance within the individual modules was negligible, due to their small size. In the present study, this assumption was tested using theoretical analysis of oxygen transport within the module (effectiveness factor) and experimental studies. Small (400 m diameter post-contraction) and large (700 m diameter post-contraction) HepG2-collagen modules were made for a range of seeding densities (2  10(6) -1  10(7) cells/ml collagen). Cell density, distribution and morphology within the modules showed that the small modules were capable of sustaining high cell densities (8.0  10(7)  4.4  10(7) cells/cm(3) ) with negligible mass transfer inhibition. Conversely, large modules developed a necrotic core and had significantly (p < 0.05) reduced cell densities (1.5  10(7)  9.2  10(6) cells/cm(3) ). It was also observed that the embedded cells responded quickly to the oxygen availability, by proliferating or dying, to reach a sustainable density of approximately 8000 cells/module. Furthermore, a simple effectiveness factor calculation was successful in estimating the maximum cell density per module. The results gathered in this study confirm the previous assumption that the small-diameter modules avoid the internal mass transfer limitations that are often observed in larger constructs.
Dermal fibroblast behaviour on micropatterned substrates with different pattern geometries.	A major objective of scaffold fabrication for tissue-engineering applications in wound healing is to understand the relationship between scaffold topography and cell behaviour. Recently, researchers have focused on arrays of cell adhesion protein styled in linear-grid micropatterns; however, these linear-grid patterns hardly reflect the topographical features of a natural extracellular matrix (ECM). In order to clarify the relationship between substrate adhesion points and cell behaviour, changes of dermal fibroblasts cultured on triangular microdot arrays were investigated. Micropatterns were micro-printed by silicone substrate stamps with collagen, while regions outside of the microdots were functionalized to block cellular adhesion. Cell morphology, expression of -SMA, cell viability and hydroxyproline levels were examined for dermal fibroblasts cultured on the microdot substrates and on non-patterned control substrates. On patterned substrates, the expression of -SMA significantly decreased, cell vitality increased and hydroxyproline content decreased with increasing vertex angles of the triangular array. Significantly more hydroxyproline was observed in all experimental groups in comparison to the control group. The results indicate that small vertex angles of the triangular array were detrimental to cell survival, likely due to constraint of the cell to a small adhesion area. We hypothesize that cells actively adapt to this situation by attempting to remodel their microenvironments with secretion of hydroxyproline. This illustrates the existence of feedback between cells and their microenvironments, such that when surroundings are unfavourably altered, the cells attempt to reconstruct the environment with secretion of ECM.
Modeling tissue growth within nonwoven scaffolds pores.	In this study we present a novel approach for predicting tissue growth within the pores of fibrous tissue engineering scaffolds. Thin nonwoven polyethylene terephthalate scaffolds were prepared to characterize tissue growth within scaffold pores, by mouse NR6 fibroblast cells. On the basis of measurements of tissue lengths at fiber crossovers and along fiber segments, mathematical models were determined during the proliferative phase of cell growth. Tissue growth at fiber crossovers decreased with increasing interfiber angle, with exponential relationships determined on day 6 and 10 of culture. Analysis of tissue growth along fiber segments determined two growth profiles, one with enhanced growth as a result of increased tissue lengths near the fiber crossover, achieved in the latter stage of culture. Derived mathematical models were used in the development of a software program to visualize predicted tissue growth within a pore. This study identifies key pore parameters that contribute toward tissue growth, and suggests models for predicting this growth, based on fibroblast cells. Such models may be used in aiding scaffold design, for optimum pore infiltration during the tissue engineering process.
Sequential fluorescent labeling observation of maxillary sinus augmentation by a tissue-engineered bone complex in canine model.	To evaluate the effects of maxillary sinus floor elevation by a tissue-engineered bone complex of beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP) and autologous osteoblasts in dogs.
Emerging nanotechnology approaches in tissue engineering for peripheral nerve regeneration.	Effective nerve regeneration and functional recovery subsequent to peripheral nerve injury is still a clinical challenge. Autologous nerve graft transplantation is a feasible treatment in several clinical cases, but it is limited by donor site morbidity and insufficient donor tissue, impairing complete functional recovery. Tissue engineering has introduced innovative approaches to promote and guide peripheral nerve regeneration by using biomimetic conduits creating favorable microenvironments for nervous ingrowth, but despite the development of a plethora of nerve prostheses, few approaches have as yet entered the clinic. Promising strategies using nanotechnology have recently been proposed, such as the use of scaffolds with functionalized cell-binding domains, the use of guidance channels with cell-scale internally oriented fibers, and the possibility of sustained release of neurotrophic factors. This review addresses the fabrication, advantages, drawbacks, and results achieved by the most recent nanotechnology approaches in view of future solutions for peripheral nerve repair.
Effect of process conditions on the growth of three-dimensional dermal-equivalent tissue obtained by microtissue precursor assembly.	Bottom-up approach is an appealing strategy to build complex three-dimensional (3D) viable tissues in vitro starting from microtissue precursors (TP). In this work we biofabricated a thick dermal-like tissue by sequentially combining two steps: a TPs production and assembly followed by tissue maturation in a purpose-built bioreactor. The TPs were produced by first seeding bovine primary fibroblasts on gelatine microparticles and then cultivating them in stirring conditions until a thick layer of ~80m of de novo synthesized extracellular matrix uniformly covered the microparticle surface. The TPs were then loaded into a cylindrical chamber (2mm in depth and 35mm in diameter) and let to maturate and assemble into a 3D viable biohybrid tissue under specific fluid flow conditions. Several combinations of perfusion and/or tangential fluid flow were applied and their effect on the tissue formation and maturation was assessed. Results show that structural composition and mechanical features of the final 3D bioengineered tissue are strongly affected by the hydrodynamic environment and demonstrate that by optimizing culture conditions a 3D viable tissue with properties similar to that of native derma could be produced.
Methods for photocrosslinking alginate hydrogel scaffolds with high cell viability.	Methods for seeding high-viability (>85%) three-dimensional (3D) alginate-chondrocyte hydrogel scaffolds are presented that employ photocrosslinking of methacrylate-modified alginate with the photoinitiator VA-086. Comparison with results from several other photoinitiators, including Irgacure 2959, highlights the role of solvent, ultraviolet exposure, and photoinitiator cytotoxicity on process viability of bovine chondrocytes in two-dimensional culture. The radicals generated from VA-086 photodissociation are shown to be noncytotoxic at w/v concentrations up to 1.5%, enabling photocrosslinking without significant cell death. The applicability of these photoinitiators for generating 3D tissue-engineered constructs is evaluated by measuring cell viability in 3D constructs with aggregate moduli in the 10-20kPa range. Hydrogels with encapsulated bovine chondrocytes were constructed with >85% viability using VA-086. While the commonly used Irgacure 2959 is noncytotoxic in its native state and crosslinks the alginate at weight fractions much lower than VA-086, the cytotoxicity of IRG2959's photogenerated radical leads to viabilities below 70% in the conditions tested.
New insights into induction of early-stage neovascularization in an improved tissue-engineered model of psoriasis.	We have previously shown that putrescine induces a psoriatic phenotype in tissue-engineered skin. The initial aim of this study was to further develop this in vitro model by introducing endothelial cells to mimic the increased vascularization found in psoriasis. Human keratinocytes and fibroblasts, which did not express CD34 or CD31 in 2D culture, were added to de-epidermised acellular human dermis and cultured for 4 weeks. For induction of a psoriatic phenotype, putrescine was added during this period. We report that after 4 weeks of culture, and particularly when exposed to putrescine, this model showed expression of vertically organised clusters of CD31 positive cells in the dermis in the absence of any exogenous endothelial cells. Further investigation in 2D cell cultures showed an indirect effect of putrescine on normal keratinocytes causing them to produce soluble factors that increased expression of CD133, CD34 and CD31 in cultured human dermal fibroblasts, previously negative for these antigens. This study reports a new and improved model of psoriasis for in vitro studies and offers a new insight into early stage neovascularization, which is of relevance not only to psoriasis, but to tissue engineering and wound healing in general.
Three-dimensional 10% cyclic strain reduces bovine aortic endothelial cell angiogenic sprout length and augments tubulogenesis in tubular fibrin hydrogels.	The development of a functional microvasculature is critical to the long-term survival of implanted tissue-engineered constructs. Dynamic culture conditions have been shown to significantly modulate phenotypic characteristics and stimulate proliferation of cells within hydrogel-based tissue engineered blood vessels. Although prior work has described the effects uniaxial or equibiaxial mechanical stimulation has on endothelial cells, no work has outlined effects of three-dimensional mechanical stimulation on endothelial cells within tubular vessel analogues. We demonstrate here that 7 days of 10% cyclic volumetric distension has a deleterious effect on the average length and density of angiogenic sprouts derived from pellets of bovine aortic endothelial cells. Although both groups demonstrated lumen formation, the sprouts grown under dynamic culture conditions typically had wider, less-branching sprout patterns. These results suggest that prolonged mechanical stimulation could represent a cue for angiogenic sprouts to preferentially develop larger lumens over cellular migration and subsequent sprout length.
Photochemically crosslinked matrices of gelatin and fibrinogen promote rapid cell proliferation.	Here we report the use of a facile photochemical crosslinking method to fabricate stable polymer matrices from unmodified gelatin and fibrinogen. Gels were produced by covalent crosslinking of the proteins in a rapid photo-oxidative process, catalysed by a ruthenium metal complex and irradiation with visible light. For generation of macroporous, spongy matrices, the proteins and crosslinking reagents were mixed with catalase and hydrogen peroxide to achieve a foaming reaction, producing a stable, foamed matrix that was subsequently photo-crosslinked. C2C12 cells were either seeded onto the matrices after photo-curing or embedded in the protein matrix prior to foaming and crosslinking. Cells seeded onto scaffolds post-curing showed high cell viability and rapid proliferation in vitro. For cells embedded in the matrix prior to crosslinking there was some loss of initial viability, but surviving cells were able to proliferate after a period of in vitro cultivation. The matrices were shown to be biocompatible when implanted into nude mice, with evidence of proliferation and differentiation of cells seeded into the scaffolds. The results are promising for further development of tissue-engineering scaffolds based on this ruthenium-catalysed photo-crosslinking method.
The effect of ex vivo dynamic loading on the osteogenic differentiation of genetically engineered mesenchymal stem cell model.	Mechanical loading has been described as a highly important stimulus for improvements in the quality and strength of bone. It has also been shown that mechanical stimuli can induce the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) along the osteogenic lineage. We have previously demonstrated the potent osteogenic effect of MSCs engineered to overexpress the BMP2 gene. In this study we investigated the effect of mechanical loading on BMP2-expressing MSC-like cells, using a special bioreactor designed to apply dynamic forces on cell-seeded hydrogels. Cell viability, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, BMP2 secretion and mineralized substance formation in the hydrogels were quantified. We found that cell metabolism increased as high as 6.8-fold, ALP activity by 12.5-fold, BMP2 secretion by 182-fold and mineralized tissue formation by 1.72-fold in hydrogels containing MSC-like cells expressing BMP2, which were cultured in the presence of mechanical loading. We have shown that ex vivo mechanical loading had an additive effect on BMP2-induced osteogenesis in genetically engineered MSC-like cells. These data could be valuable for bone tissue-engineering strategies of the future.
Temporal exposure to chondrogenic factors modulates human mesenchymal stem cell chondrogenesis in hydrogels.	Tissue engineering utilizes scaffolds containing chondrogenic cells to promote cartilage development at a clinically relevant scale, yet there remains a limited understanding of the optimal conditions for inducing differentiation and matrix production. We investigated how cell density and temporal exposure to chondrogenic factors impacted chondrogenesis of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) encapsulated in poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate hydrogels. We found maximal proteoglycan and collagen production in constructs seeded between 10 and 2510(6) cells/mL. Matrix deposition was significantly less per cell in constructs seeded at either higher or lower densities, indicating that paracrine communications may remain important despite loss of direct cell-cell contact. In vitro chondrogenesis of hMSCs was first accomplished using pellet cultures and a defined medium containing transforming growth factor (TGF)-1 and dexamethasone. The differentiation of hMSCs in hydrogels also required initial exposure to TGF-1, with no chondrogenic matrix produced in its absence. If TGF-1 was initially included for at least 7 days, its removal impacted collagen production per cell but also lead to an increase in cell number, such that total collagen deposition was equivalent to controls when TGF-1 was included for at least 3 weeks. Further, proteoglycan content per construct was higher at 6 weeks after removal of TGF-1 at any time. In contrast to TGF-1, dexamethasone was not required for chondrogenesis of hMSCs in hydrogels: there was no difference in matrix deposition between hydrogels cultured with or without dexamethasone. Further, without dexamethasone, SOX9 gene expression was higher during early chondrogenesis and there was a significant reduction in collagen I deposition, suggesting that a more hyaline cartilage phenotype is achieved without dexamethasone. Collagen content at 6 weeks was lower if dexamethasone was excluded after the first 7 days, but was equivalent to control if dexamethasone was included for 2 weeks or longer. Proteoglycan deposition was unaffected by dexamethasone exclusion. These results indicate that modulating exposure to TGF-1 is beneficial for cell survival/proliferation and matrix production from hMSCs in hydrogels, and that not only is dexamethasone dispensable but also its exclusion may be advantageous for forming hyaline cartilage.
Proliferation of human keratinocytes and cocultured human keratinocytes and fibroblasts in three-dimensional fibrin constructs.	Over the last several years, our in vitro and in vivo studies have focused on optimizing the use of fibrin to deliver cells. We have shown that some three-dimensional (3D) fibrin constructs with specific fibrinogen and thrombin concentration support robust proliferation of normal human dermal fibroblasts, whereas different fibrinogen and thrombin concentrations support high mesenchymal stem cell proliferation in 3D fibrin constructs. In this article, we found that normal human epithelial keratinocytes proliferate well in 3D fibrin constructs consist of fibrinogen concentration ranging from 17 to 33mg/mL and thrombin concentration of 1U/mL. Further, using a new proliferation assay, we studied the proliferation of fibroblasts and keratinocytes cocultured in various 3D fibrin constructs of different fibrinogen and thrombin concentrations. We found that 3D fibrin constructs with a range of fibrinogen concentration (5-34mg/mL) and a thrombin concentration of 1U/mL produce an optimal cell proliferation for both cell types when cocultured. This profile of proliferation is different from that seen when keratinocytes or fibroblasts are incorporated separately in 3D fibrin constructs. In conclusion, we found that one needs to choose the fibrinogen and thrombin concentration carefully depending on the cell type to deliver; that is, different fibrin constructs with different fibrinogen and thrombin concentration are required to deliver fibroblasts or keratinocytes alone or to codeliver both cell types. Moreover, there seems to be a cross-talk between keratinocytes and fibroblasts when they are cointroduced in 3D fibrin constructs. This feedback could be due to the effects of growth factors produced by the two cell types in the 3D fibrin constructs.
Magnetic resonance studies of macromolecular content in engineered cartilage treated with pulsed low-intensity ultrasound.	Noninvasive monitoring of matrix development in tissue-engineered cartilage constructs would permit ongoing assessment with the ability to modify culture conditions during development to optimize tissue characteristics. In this study, chondrocytes seeded in a collagen hydrogel were exposed for 20min/day to pulsed low-intensity ultrasound (PLIUS) at 30 mWcm(-2) and cultured for up to 5 weeks. Biochemical assays, histology, immunohistochemistry, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed at weeks 3 and 5 after initiation of growth. The noninvasive MRI measurements were correlated with those from the invasive studies. In particular, MRI transverse relaxation time (T2) and magnetization transfer rate (k(m)) correlated with macromolecular content, which was increased by application of PLIUS. This indicates the sensitivity of MR techniques to PLIUS-induced changes in matrix development, and highlights the potential for noninvasive assessment of the efficacy of anabolic interventions for engineered tissue.
Electrospun nanofiber meshes with tailored architectures and patterns as potential tissue-engineering scaffolds.	Using a stainless steel mesh as a template collector, electrospun nanofiber meshes with well-tailored architectures and patterns were successfully prepared from biodegradable poly (epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL). It was found that the resulting PCL nanofiber (NF) meshes had similar topological structures to that of the template stainless steel mesh. Such PCL nanofiber meshes (NF meshes) had improved the tensile strength with Young's modulus of 62.7 +/- 5.3 MPa, which is >40% higher than the modulus of 44 +/- 5.7 MPa as measured with the corresponding randomly oriented PCL nanofiber mats (RNF mat). On the other hand, the ultimate strain (87.30%) of the PCL NF meshes was distinctly lower than that of the PCL RNF mats (146.46%). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that the mechanical properties of nanofiber meshes with tailored architectures and patterns were studied and reported. When cultured with a mouse osteoblastic cell line (MC3T3-E1), the electrospun PCL NF meshes gave a much higher proliferation rate as compared with the randomly oriented PCL RNF mats. More importantly, it was found that the cells grew and elongated along the fiber orientation directions, and the resulted cellular organization and distribution mimicked the topological structures of the PCL NF meshes. These results indicated that the electrospun nanofiber scaffolds with tailored architectures and patterns hold potential for engineering functional tissues or organs, where an ordered cellular organization is essential.
Cell adhesion and proliferation evaluation of SFF-based biodegradable scaffolds fabricated using a multi-head deposition system.	Scaffolds composed of biodegradable polymers and biocompatible ceramics are being used as substitutes for tissue engineering. In the development of such techniques, scaffolds with a controllable pore size and porosity were manufactured using solid free-form fabrication (SFF) methods to investigate the effects of cell interactions such as cell proliferation and differentiation. In this study, we describe the adhesion of human bone marrow stromal cells (hBMSCs) and proliferation characteristics of various scaffolds, which consist of biodegradable materials, fabricated using a multi-head deposition system (MHDS) that we developed. The MHDS uses novel technology that enables the production of three-dimensional (3D) microstructures. Fabrication of 3D tissue engineering scaffolds using the MHDS requires the combination of several technologies, such as motion control, thermal control, pneumatic control and computer-aided design/computer-assisted manufacturing software. The effects of a polymer and ceramic on a tissue scaffold were evaluated through mechanical testing and cell interaction analysis of various kinds of scaffolds fabricated using polycaprolactone, poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid and tri-calcium phosphate for bone regeneration applications. Based on these results, the feasibility of application to the tissue engineering of SFF-based 3D scaffolds fabricated by the MHDS was demonstrated.
Precision extruding deposition (PED) fabrication of polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Bone tissue engineering is an emerging field providing viable substitutes for bone regeneration. Recent advances have allowed scientists and engineers to develop scaffolds for guided bone growth. However, success requires scaffolds to have specific macroscopic geometries and internal architectures conducive to biological and biophysical functions. Freeform fabrication provides an effective process tool to manufacture three-dimensional porous scaffolds with complex shapes and designed properties. A novel precision extruding deposition (PED) technique was developed to fabricate polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffolds. It was possible to manufacture scaffolds with a controlled pore size of 350 microm with designed structural orientations using this method. The scaffold morphology, internal micro-architecture and mechanical properties were evaluated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) and mechanical testing, respectively. An in vitro cell-scaffold interaction study was carried out using primary fetal bovine osteoblasts. Specifically, the cell proliferation and differentiation was evaluated by Alamar Blue assay for cell metabolic activity, alkaline phosphatase activity and osteoblast production of calcium. An in vivo study was performed on nude mice to determine the capability of osteoblast-seeded PCL to induce osteogenesis. Each scaffold was implanted subcutaneously in nude mice and, following sacrifice, was explanted at one of a series of time intervals. The explants were then evaluated histologically for possible areas of osseointegration. Microscopy and radiological examination showed multiple areas of osseous ingrowth suggesting that the osteoblast-seeded PCL scaffolds evoke osteogenesis in vivo. These studies demonstrated the viability of the PED process to fabricate PCL scaffolds having the necessary mechanical properties, structural integrity, and controlled pore size and interconnectivity desired for bone tissue engineering.
Cell sheet technology and cell patterning for biofabrication.	We have developed cell sheet technology as a modern method for the fabrication of functional tissue-like and organ-like structures. This technology allows for a sheet of interconnected cells and cells in full contact with their natural extracellular environment to be obtained. A cell sheet can be patterned and composed according to more than one cell type. The key technology of cell sheet engineering is that a fabricated cell sheet can be harvested and transplanted utilizing temperature-responsive surfaces. In this review, we summarize different aspects of cell sheet engineering and provide a survey of the application of cell sheets as a suitable material for biofabrication and clinics. Moreover, since cell micropatterning is a key tool for cell sheet engineering, in this review we focus on the introduction of our approaches to cell micropatterning and cell co-culture to the principles of automation and how they can be subjected to easy robotics programming. Finally, efforts towards making cell sheet technology suitable for biofabrication and robotic biofabrication are also summarized.
A hybrid biomimetic scaffold composed of electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers and self-assembled peptide amphiphile nanofibers.	Nanofibrous electrospun poly (epsilon-caprolactone) (ePCL) scaffolds have inherent structural advantages, but lack of bioactivity has limited their usefulness in biomedical applications. Thus, here we report the development of a hybrid, nanostructured, extracellular matrix (ECM) mimicking scaffold by a combination of ePCL nanofibers and self-assembled peptide amphiphile (PA) nanofibers. The PAs have ECM mimicking characteristics including a cell adhesive ligand (RGDS) and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) mediated degradable sites. Transmission electron microscope imaging verified successful PA self-assembly into nanofibers (diameters of 8-10 nm) using a solvent evaporation method. This evaporation method was then used to successfully coat PAs onto ePCL nanofibers (diameters of 300-400 nm), to develop hybrid, bioactive scaffolds. Scanning electron microscope characterization showed that the PA coatings did not interfere with the porous ePCL nanofiber network. Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were seeded onto the hybrid scaffolds to evaluate their bioactivity. Significantly greater attachment and spreading of hMSCs were observed on ePCL nanofibers coated with PA-RGDS as compared to ePCL nanofibers coated with PA-S (no cell adhesive ligand) and uncoated ePCL nanofibers. Overall, this novel strategy presents a new solution to overcome the current bioactivity challenges of electrospun scaffolds and combines the unique characteristics of ePCL nanofibers and self-assembled PA nanofibers to provide an ECM mimicking environment. This has great potential to be applied to many different electrospun scaffolds for various biomedical applications.
Fabrication of a two-level tumor bone repair biomaterial based on a rapid prototyping technique.	After the removal of the giant cell tumor (GCT) of bone, it is necessary to fill the defects with adequate biomaterials. A new functional bone repair material with both stimulating osteoblast growth and inhibiting osteoclast activity has been developed with phosphorylated chitosan (P-chitosan) and disodium (1 --> 4)-2-deoxy-2-sulfoamino-beta-D-glucopyranuronan (S-chitosan) as the additives of poly(lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA)/calcium phosphate (TCP) scaffolds based on a double-nozzle low-temperature deposition manufacturing technique. A computer-assisted design model was used and the optimal fabrication parameters were determined through the manipulation of a pure PLGA/TCP system. The microscopic structures, water absorbability and mechanical properties of the samples with different P-chitosan and S-chitosan concentrations were characterized correspondingly. The results suggested that this unique composite porous scaffold material is a potential candidate for the repair of large bone defects after a surgical removal of GCT.
Fabrication and characterization of bio-engineered cardiac pseudo tissues.	We report on fabricating functional three-dimensional (3D) tissue constructs using an inkjet based bio-prototyping method. With the use of modified inkjet printers, contractile cardiac hybrids that exhibit the forms of the 3D rectangular sheet and even the 'half heart' (with two connected ventricles) have been fabricated by arranging alternate layers of biocompatible alginate hydrogels and mammalian cardiac cells according to pre-designed 3D patterns. In this study, primary feline adult and H1 cardiomyocytes were used as model cardiac cells. Alginate hydrogels with controlled micro-shell structures were built by spraying cross-linkers in micro-drops onto un-gelled alginic acid. The cells remained viable in constructs as thick as 1 cm due to the programmed porosity. Microscopic and macroscopic contractile functions of these cardiomyocyte constructs were observed in vitro. These results suggest that the inkjet bio-prototyping method could be used for hierarchical design of functional cardiac pseudo tissues, balanced with porosity for mass transport and structural support.
Computer-aided design of microvasculature systems for use in vascular scaffold production.	In vitro biomedical engineering of intact, functional vascular networks, which include capillary structures, is a prerequisite for adequate vascular scaffold production. Capillary structures are necessary since they provide the elements and compounds for the growth, function and maintenance of 3D tissue structures. Computer-aided modeling of stereolithographic (STL) micro-computer tomographic (micro-CT) 3D models is a technique that enables us to mimic the design of vascular tree systems containing capillary beds, found in tissues. In our first paper (Mondy et al 2009 Tissue Eng. at press), using micro-CT, we studied the possibility of using vascular tissues to produce data capable of aiding the design of vascular tree scaffolding, which would help in the reverse engineering of a complete vascular tree system including capillary bed structures. In this paper, we used STL models of large datasets of computer-aided design (CAD) data of vascular structures which contained capillary structures that mimic those in the dermal layers of rabbit skin. Using CAD software we created from 3D STL models a bio-CAD design for the development of capillary-containing vascular tree scaffolding for skin. This method is designed to enhance a variety of therapeutic protocols including, but not limited to, organ and tissue repair, systemic disease mediation and cell/tissue transplantation therapy. Our successful approach to in vitro vasculogenesis will allow the bioengineering of various other types of 3D tissue structures, and as such greatly expands the potential applications of biomedical engineering technology into the fields of biomedical research and medicine.
The role of printing parameters and scaffold biopolymer properties in the efficacy of a new hybrid nano-bioprinting system.	We created a hybrid nano-bioprinting system, which combines the initial patterning capabilities of direct cell writing with the active patterning capabilities of superparamagnetic nanoparticles. Biofabrication conditions, including printing parameters and scaffold biopolymer properties, may affect cell viability, nanoparticle manipulation and patterning capabilities. Nanoparticles were printed under varied conditions either in the biopolymer or loaded inside cells. Cell viability, alginate viscosity, nanoparticle movement and printing resolution were measured. We now show that while nanoparticles decreased cell viability, nozzle size had no significant effect. High printing pressure decreased cell viability, but viability loss was not accentuated by nanoparticles. High nanoparticle concentrations increased alginate viscosity at higher alginate concentrations. Nanoparticle velocity in response to a magnetic field was a function of nanoparticle diameter and scaffold viscosity, which agreed with a mathematical model of nanoparticle movement. Finally, the nano-bioprinting system resolution and patterning precision were not affected by nanoparticles in the prepolymer solution. These data suggest that nanoparticle incorporation in solid freeform fabrication does not change biofabrication parameters unless high nanoparticle concentrations are used. Future work includes developing vascularized tissue engineering constructs using the nano-bioprinting system.
Coating of hydrophobins on three-dimensional electrospun poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) scaffolds for cell adhesion.	Surface modification with hydrophobins is very important for cell adhesion in its applications in biosensor fabrication. In this study, we modified the surface of three-dimensional electrospun poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) scaffolds with hydrophobin HFBI and collagen, and investigated its applications for cell adhesion. We found that HFBI could not only improve the hydrophilicity of the three-dimensional electrospun PLGA scaffolds but also endow the electrospun PLGA scaffolds with water permeability. This permeability should be attributed to both the hydrophilicity of the modified PLGA surface and the large positive capillary effect induced by the microstructures. Further experiment indicated that HFBI modification could improve collagen immobilization on the electrospun PLGA scaffolds and the HFBI/collagen modified electrospun PLGA scaffolds showed higher efficiency in promoting cell adhesion than the native PLGA scaffolds. This finding should be of potential application in biosensor device fabrication.
A Lindenmayer system-based approach for the design of nutrient delivery networks in tissue constructs.	Large thick tissue constructs have reported limited success primarily due to the inability of cells to survive deep within the scaffold. Without access to adequate nutrients, cells placed deep within the tissue construct will die out, leading to non-uniform tissue regeneration. Currently, there is a necessity to design nutrient conduit networks within the tissue construct to enable cells to survive in the matrix. However, the design of complex networks within a tissue construct is challenging. In this paper, we present the Lindenmayer system, an elegant fractal-based language algorithm framework, to generate conduit networks in two- and three-dimensional architecture with several degrees of complexity. The conduit network maintains a parent-child relationship between each branch of the network. Several L-system parameters have been studied-branching angle, branch length, ratio of parent to child branch diameter, etc-to simulate several architectures under a given L-system notation. We have also presented a layered manufacturing-based UV-photopolymerization process using the Texas Instruments DLP system to fabricate the branched structures. This preliminary work showcases the applicability of L-system-based construct designs to drive scaffold fabrication systems.
Characterization of the flow behavior of alginate/hydroxyapatite mixtures for tissue scaffold fabrication.	Mixtures of alginate and hydroxyapatite (HA) are promising materials for biomedical applications such as the fabrication of tissue scaffolds. In this paper, the flow behavior of alginate/HA mixtures was investigated and determined to be dependent on the concentration of both alginate and HA, and temperature. The relationships were mathematically established and verified with experimental results. As applied to the tissue scaffold fabrication, the flow rate of the biomaterial solution was predicted from the established flow behavior and verified by experiments. On this basis, the moving speed of the needle was determined and used in the tissue scaffold fabrication. The results obtained show that the knowledge of the flow behavior is essential to the fabrication of tissue scaffolds with an interconnected microstructure.
In vitro evaluation of acellular dermal matrix as a three-dimensional scaffold for gingival fibroblasts seeding.	Tissue engineering principles could improve the incorporation of acellular dermal matrix (ADM). The aim of this study is to verify if ADM is a suitable three-dimensional matrix for gingival fibroblasts and cancerous cells ingrowth, and also if cultured medium conditioned in ADM affect cellular behavior.
Increased mixing improves hydrogel homogeneity and quality of three-dimensional printed constructs.	As the tissue engineering and drug delivery communities place greater emphasis on producing constructs of prescribed geometry and organization, three-dimensional printing is becoming as an increasingly important technique. While numerous tissue printing techniques have emerged, little has been done to characterize the properties of printing inks and the resultant effects on geometric fidelity, cell viability, and mechanical integrity. These questions have been neglected largely because of the lack of methods to characterize the real-time properties of printing inks. We present a novel technique for characterizing the homogeneity of hydrogel tissue printing inks that measures loads during ink deposition and its temporal variation, called, mechanical noise. We then used this technique to determine the effects of increased mixing on the homogeneity of alginate hydrogels and determined whether this results in improved geometric fidelity of printed constructs. We also studied potential adverse effects on cell viability and mechanical integrity of printed parts. Increased mixing between alginate and crosslinker to 128 cycles yielded an 82% reduction in mechanical noise. Geometric fidelity also improved with this increased mixing, in terms of a smoother surface texture, better matching of the target geometry, and fewer point defects. Viability was not adversely affected by increased mixing, and it actually improved by 34% with a 45min curing time. As mixing before printing was increased from 8 to 200 cycles, the modulus also increased by 110% from 4.0  0.1 to 8.4  1.0kPa. The results presented herein motivate a radical shift in alginate printing protocol, and also propose a useful methodology for characterizing three-dimensional printing materials.
Mechanical stability in a human radius fracture treated with a novel tissue-engineered bone substitute: a non-invasive, longitudinal assessment using high-resolution pQCT in combination with finite element analysis.	The clinical gold standard in orthopaedics for treating fractures with large bone defects is still the use of autologous, cancellous bone autografts. While this material provides a strong healing response, the use of autografts is often associated with additional morbidity. Therefore, there is a demand for off-the-shelf biomaterials that perform similar to autografts. Biomechanical assessment of such a biomaterial in vivo has so far been limited. Recently, the development of high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) has made it possible to measure bone structure in humans in great detail. Finite element analysis (FEA) has been used to accurately estimate bone mechanical function from three-dimensional CT images. The aim of this study was therefore to determine the feasibility of these two methods in combination, to quantify bone healing in a clinical case with a fracture at the distal radius which was treated with a new bone graft substitute. Validation was sought through a conceptional ovine model. The bones were scanned using HR-pQCT and subsequently biomechanically tested. FEA-derived stiffness was validated relative to the experimental data. The developed processing methods were then adapted and applied to in vivo follow-up data of the patient. Our analyses indicated an 18% increase of bone stiffness within 2 months. To our knowledge, this was the first time that microstructural finite element analyses have been performed on bone-implant constructs in a clinical setting. From this clinical case study, we conclude that HR-pQCT-based micro-finite element analyses show high potential to quantify bone healing in patients.
In vivo tracking of stem cell by nanotechnologies: future prospects for mouse to human translation.	Advances in stem cell research have provided important understanding of the cell biology and offered great promise for developing new strategies for tissue regeneration. Dynamic determination of stem cell migration and distribution in real time is essential for optimizing treatments in preclinical models and designing clinical protocols. Recent developments in the use of nanotechnologies have contributed to advance of the high-resolution in vivo imaging methods, including the positron emission tomography, the single-photon emission computed tomography, the magnetic resonance imaging, and microcomputed tomography. This review examines the use of nanotechnologies for stem cell tracking, the many contrast agents, and detectors that have been proposed and suggest future directions for mouse to human translation of these techniques, for both therapeutic and diagnostic purposes.
Construction of tissue-engineered corpus cavernosum with muscle-derived stem cells and transplantation in vivo.	 To investigate the feasibility of tissue-engineered corpus cavernosum (TECC) with muscle-derived stem cells (MDSCs) as seed cells and determine the growth potential in vivo.
Construction of a multi-layer skin substitute: Simultaneous cultivation of keratinocytes and preadipocytes on a dermal template.	After deep excision of burn eschar down to the muscle fascia patients have a non-reversible loss of the skin and underlying subcutaneous tissue. These patients would benefit from the development of a sufficient epidermal, dermal, and hypodermal tissue-engineered replacement provided by new technologies of tissue engineering. The aim of the present study was to determine whether keratinocytes and preadipocytes grow simultaneously on a bovine-derived collagen-elastin matrix under in vitro conditions in order to obtain a multi-layer skin substitute.
Nanohydroxyapatite-coated electrospun poly(l-lactide) nanofibers enhance osteogenic differentiation of stem cells and induce ectopic bone formation.	A combination of calcium phosphates with nanofibrous scaffolds holds promising potential for bone tissue engineering applications. In this study, nanohydroxyapatite (n-HA) was coated on the plasma-treated surface of electrospun poly(l-lactide) (PLLA) nanofibers and the capacity of fabricated scaffolds for bone formation was investigated in vitro using human cord blood derived unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSC) under osteogenic induction and in vivo after subcutaneous implantation. PLLA and n-HA-coated PLLA (n-HA/PLLA) scaffolds exhibited a nanofibrous structure with interconnected pores and suitable mechanical properties. These scaffolds were also shown to support attachment, spreading, and proliferation of USSC, as shown by their flattened normal morphology and MTT assay. During osteogenic differentiation, significantly higher values of ALP activity, biomineralization, and bone-related gene expression were observed on n-HA/PLLA compared to PLLA scaffolds. Subsequently, these markers were measured in higher amounts in USSC on PLLA nanofibers compared to TCPS. According to the in vivo results, ossification and formation of trabeculi was observed in the n-HA/PLLA scaffold compared to PLLA. Taking together, it was shown that nanofibrous structure enhanced osteogenic differentiation of USSC. Furthermore, surface-coated n-HA stimulated the effect of nanofibers on the orientation of USSC toward osteolineage. In addition, the n-HA/PLLA electrospun scaffold showed the capacity for ectopic bone formation in the absence of exogenous cells. 
Surface grafting thermoresponsive PEO-PPO-PEO chains.	The objective of this study was to engineer surfaces comprising covalently bound polyethylene oxide-polypropylene oxide-polyethylene oxide (PEO-PPO-PEO) chains, able to coil and uncoil in aqueous media, as a function of temperature. Thermoresponsive surfaces can be used in diverse areas, such as tissue engineering and 'on-command' drug delivery. The grafting scheme was exemplified using a poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) film and started with the exposure of the substrate to plasma of ammonia, whereby amine groups were formed on the film. In the next stage, the amine moieties reacted with the hydroxyterminated thermoresponsive PEO-PPO-PEO triblocks via the hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) coupling agent. XPS analysis of the PET film after being exposed to plasma of ammonia revealed substantial amounts of nitrogen, as revealed by the sizeable N1s peak observed at 400.2 eV. A large increase in the C1s ether peak at 286.5 eV was apparent after binding the PEO-PPO-PEO triblocks to the substrate. These findings were confirmed by FTIR spectroscopy and supported by water contact angle measurements. PEO-PPO-PEO triblocks were chain extended by reacting them with HDI, whereby longer polyether urethane chains were formed. The long thermoresponsive chains produced (P-F127) were then tethered to the PET surface, following the procedure used to graft the shorter F127 triblocks. The thermoresponsiveness of the surface was demonstrated by measuring the water contact angle of the P-F127-containing surfaces as a function of temperature.
Cell-based vascularization strategies for skin tissue engineering.	Providing a blood-vascular network to promote survival and integration of cells in thick dermal substitutes for application in full-thickness wounds is essential for the successful outcome of skin tissue engineering. Nevertheless, promoting vascularization also represents a critical bottleneck in today's skin tissue engineering practice. Several cell types have been considered and tested, mostly in preclinical studies, to increase vascularization. When the clinical situation allows delayed reconstruction of the defect, an autologous approach is preferable, whereas in acute cases allogeneic therapy is needed. In both cases, the cells should be harvested with minimal donor-site morbidity and should be available in large amounts and safe in terms of tumor formation and transmission of animal diseases. Here, we outline the different mechanisms of cell-based vascularization and subsequently elaborate in more detail on the candidate cell types and their pros and cons in terms of clinical application and regulation of the wound healing process.
Compare the effects of chondrogenesis by culture of human mesenchymal stem cells with various type of the chondroitin sulfate C.	Chondroitin sulfate C (CSC) is a kind of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) with molecular weights of 10,000 to 50,000 Da and a high charge density. GAGs are major components in extracellular matrix (ECM), which play important role in the regulation of cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation. In this study, we studied the effects of chondroitin sulfate C (CSC) on the differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) toward the chondrocyte lineage. The MSCs were either cultured on type II collagen (COL II) scaffolds with high molecular weight CSC addition in the medium (free CSC) or with free oligosaccharide CSC. Special attention was given to the effects of MSCs cultured on CSC cross-linked type II scaffolds (cross-linked CSC). According to the analysis of histology stain, gene expression, and ECM secretion, our results showed that MSCs cultured with free CSC, free oligosaccharides CSC, and on the cross-linked CSC scaffolds all would be induced into chondrocytes. Moreover, free oligosaccharide CSC present in the microenvironment could significantly up-regulate MSC chondrogenesis gene expression and stimulate cartilage ECM accumulation more than free CSC with high molecular weight after 3-week induction. Importantly, cross-linked CSC had the most excellent effects on the MSC chondrogenesis. Thus, we believed that cross-linked CSC in the scaffold would play the similar roles with free oligosaccharide CSC in the medium. Cross-linked CSC would be a potential candidate for cartilage repair in the cell therapy and tissue engineering.
Initial fiber alignment pattern alters extracellular matrix synthesis in fibroblast-populated fibrin gel cruciforms and correlates with predicted tension.	Human dermal fibroblasts entrapped in fibrin gels cast in cross-shaped (cruciform) geometries with 1:1 and 1:0.5 ratios of arm widths were studied to assess whether tension and alignment of the cells and fibrils affected ECM deposition. The cruciforms of contrasting geometry (symmetric vs. asymmetric), which developed different fiber alignment patterns, were harvested at 2, 5, and 10weeks of culture. Cruciforms were subjected to planar biaxial testing, polarimetric imaging, DNA and biochemical analyses, histological staining, and SEM imaging. As the cruciforms compacted and developed fiber alignment, fibrin was degraded, and elastin and collagen were produced in a geometry-dependent manner. Using a continuum mechanical model that accounts for direction-dependent stress due to cell traction forces and cell contact guidance with aligned fibers that occurs in the cruciforms, the mechanical stress environment was concluded to influence collagen deposition, with deposition being the greatest in the narrow arms of the asymmetric cruciform where stress was predicted to be the largest.
An overview of methods for the in vivo evaluation of tissue-engineered skin constructs.	Cutaneous wounding often leads to contraction and scarring, which may result in a range of functional, cosmetic, and psychological complications. Tissue-engineered skin substitutes are being developed to enhance restoration of the skin and improve the quality of wound healing. The aim of this review is to provide researchers in the field of tissue engineering an overview of the methods that are currently used to clinically evaluate skin wound healing, and methods that are used to evaluate tissue-engineered constructs in animal models. Clinically, the quality of wound healing is assessed by noninvasive subjective scar assessment scales and objective techniques to measure individual scar features. Alternatively, invasive technologies are used. In animal models, most tissue-engineered skin constructs studied are at least evaluated macroscopically and by using conventional histology (hematoxylin-eosin staining). Planimetry and immunohistochemistry are also often applied. An overview of antibodies used is provided. In addition, some studies used methods to assess gene expression levels and mRNA location, transillumination for blood vessel observation, in situ/in vivo imaging, electron microscopy, mechanical strength assessment, and microbiological sampling. A more systematic evaluation of tissue-engineered skin constructs in animal models is recommended to enhance the comparison of different constructs, thereby accelerating the trajectory to application in human patients. This would be further enhanced by the embracement of more clinically relevant objective evaluation methods. In addition, fundamental knowledge on construct-mediated wound healing may be increased by new developments in, for example, gene expression analysis and noninvasive imaging.
Periodontal tissue engineering after tooth replantation.	Blood-derived products, platelet-poor plasma (PPP) and platelet-rich plasma (PRP), constitute an approach in the enhancement of tissue healing. PRP has also been used as a scaffold for bone marrow stem cells in tissue engineering. This study evaluates the effect of PPP, calcium chloride-activated PRP (PRP/Ca), calcium chloride- and thrombin-activated PRP (PRP/Thr/Ca), and bone marrow mononuclear cells and PRP/Ca (BMMCs/PRP/Ca) on the healing of replanted dog teeth.
Minimally invasive imaging method based on second harmonic generation and multiphoton excitation fluorescence in translational respiratory research.	For translational respiratory research including in the development of clinical diagnostic tools, a minimally invasive imaging method, which can provide both cellular and extracellular structural details with sufficient specificity, sensitivity and spatial resolution, is particularly useful. Multiphoton microscopy causes excitation of endogenously fluorescent macromolecular systems and induces highly specific second harmonic generation signals from non-centrosymmetric macromolecules such as fibrillar collagens. Both these signals can be captured simultaneously to provide spatially resolved 3D structural organization of extracellular matrix as well as the cellular morphologies in their native states. Besides briefly discussing the fundamentals of multiphoton excitation fluorescence and harmonic generation signals and the instrumentation details, this review focuses on the specific applications of these imaging modalities in lung structural imaging, particularly morphological features of alveolar structures, visualizing and quantifying extracellular matrix remodelling accompanying emphysematous destructions as well as the IPF, detecting lung cancers and the potential use in the tissue engineering applications.
Epithelial-mesenchymal interactions as a working concept for oral mucosa regeneration.	Oral mucosa consists of two tissue layers, the superficial epithelium and the underlying lamina propria. Together, oral mucosa functions as a barrier against exogenous substances and pathogens. In development, interactions of stem/progenitor cells of the epithelium and mesenchyme are crucial to the morphogenesis of oral mucosa. Previous work in oral mucosa regeneration has yielded important clues for several meritorious proof-of-concept approaches. Tissue engineering offers a broad array of novel tools for oral mucosa regeneration with reduced donor site trauma and accelerated clinical translation. However, the developmental concept of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions (EMIs) is rarely considered in oral mucosa regeneration. EMIs in postnatal oral mucosa regeneration likely will not be a simple recapitulation of prenatal oral mucosa development. Biomaterial scaffolds play an indispensible role for oral mucosa regeneration and should provide a conducive environment for pivotal EMIs. Autocrine and paracrine factors, either exogenously delivered or innately produced, have rarely been and should be harnessed to promote oral mucosa regeneration. This review focuses on a working concept of epithelial and mesenchymal interactions in oral mucosa regeneration.
Regenerative medicine as applied to solid organ transplantation: current status and future challenges.	In the last two decades, regenerative medicine has shown the potential for "bench-to-bedside" translational research in specific clinical settings. Progress made in cell and stem cell biology, material sciences and tissue engineering enabled researchers to develop cutting-edge technology which has lead to the creation of nonmodular tissue constructs such as skin, bladders, vessels and upper airways. In all cases, autologous cells were seeded on either artificial or natural supporting scaffolds. However, such constructs were implanted without the reconstruction of the vascular supply, and the nutrients and oxygen were supplied by diffusion from adjacent tissues. Engineering of modular organs (namely, organs organized in functioning units referred to as modules and requiring the reconstruction of the vascular supply) is more complex and challenging. Models of functioning hearts and livers have been engineered using "natural tissue" scaffolds and efforts are underway to produce kidneys, pancreata and small intestine. Creation of custom-made bioengineered organs, where the cellular component is exquisitely autologous and have an internal vascular network, will theoretically overcome the two major hurdles in transplantation, namely the shortage of organs and the toxicity deriving from lifelong immunosuppression. This review describes recent advances in the engineering of several key tissues and organs.
Effect of a scaffold fabricated thermally from acetylated PLGA on the formation of engineered cartilage.	A MHDS has been employed to fabricate 3D scaffolds from PLGA with acetyl endgroups to achieve in vivo regeneration of cartilage tissue. The fabricated acetylated-PLGA scaffold showed open pores and interconnected structures. Rabbit chondrocytes were seeded on the PLGA scaffolds and transplanted immediately into subcutaneous sites of athymic mice. Chondrocytes transplantation with untreated PLGA scaffolds served as a control. Histological analysis of the implants at 4 weeks with H&E staining and alcian blue staining revealed higher extracellular matrix and GAG expression at the neocartilage in the PLGA-6Ac scaffolds than that of the PLGA-6OH scaffold group. This endgroup-modified scaffold may be useful for successful cartilage tissue engineering in orthopedic applications.
Identification of small molecular compounds and fabrication of its aqueous solution by laser-ablation, expanding primordial cartilage.	The discovery of small molecular compounds that expand cartilage is needed. We searched for small molecular compounds that expand cartilage or enhance the actions of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) on cartilage.
Engineering bioartificial tracheal tissue using hybrid fibroblast-mesenchymal stem cell cultures in collagen hydrogels.	We aimed at providing the first in vitro and in vivo proof-of-concept for a novel tracheal tissue engineering technology. We hypothesized that bioartificial trachea (BT) could be generated from fibroblast and collagen hydrogels, mechanically supported by osteogenically-induced mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) in ring-shaped 3D-hydrogel cultures, and applied in an experimental model of rat trachea injury. Tube-shaped tissue was constructed from mixtures of rat fibroblasts and collagen in custom-made casting molds. The tissue was characterized histologically and mechanically. Ring-shaped tissue was constructed from mixtures of rat MSCs and collagen and fused to the tissue-engineered tubes to function as reinforcement. Stiffness of the biological reinforcement was enhanced by induction of osteogeneic differentiation in MSCs. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated by assessment of osteocalcin (OC) secretion, quantification of calcium (Ca) deposit, and mechanical testing. Finally, BT was implanted to bridge a surgically-induced tracheal defect. A three-layer tubular tissue structure composed of an interconnected network of fibroblasts was constructed. Tissue collapse was prevented by the placement of MSC-containing ring-shaped tissue reinforcement around the tubular constructs. Osteogenic induction resulted in high OC secretion, high Ca deposit, and enhanced construct stiffness. Ultimately, when BT was implanted, recipient rats were able to breathe spontaneously.
Development of novel biodegradable polymer scaffolds for vascular tissue engineering.	Functional connective tissues have been developed using tissue engineering approach by seeding cells on biodegradable scaffolds such as polyglycolic acid (PGA). However, a major drawback of tissue engineering approaches that utilize synthetic polymers is the persistence of polymer remnants in engineered tissues at the end of culture. Such polymer fragments may significantly degrade tissue mechanics and stimulate local inflammatory responses in vivo. In this study, several polymeric materials with a range of degradation profiles were developed and evaluated for their potential applications in construction of collagen matrix-rich tissues, particularly tissue-engineered blood vessels. The degradation characteristics of these polymers were compared as were their characteristics vis--vis cell adhesion and proliferation, collagen synthesis, and ability to support growth of engineered vessels. Under aqueous conditions at 37C, Polymer I (comprising 84% glycolide and 16% trimethylene carbonate [TMC]) had a similar degradation profile to PGA, Polymer II (comprising 84% glycolide, 14% TMC, and 2% polyethylene succinate) degradedly more slowly, but Polymer III (comprising 87% glycolide, 7% TMC, and 6% polyethylene glycol) had a more extensive degradation as compared to PGA. All polymers supported cell proliferation, but Polymer III improved collagen production and engineered vessel mechanics as compared with PGA. In addition, more slowly degrading polymers were associated with poorer final vessel mechanics. These results suggest that polymers that degrade more quickly during tissue culture actually result in improved engineered tissue mechanics, by virtue of decreased disruption of collagenous extracellular matrix.
Bioengineered periodontal tissue formed on titanium dental implants.	The ability to use autologous dental progenitor cells (DPCs) to form organized periodontal tissues on titanium implants would be a significant improvement over current implant therapies. Based on prior experimental results, we hypothesized that rat periodontal ligament (PDL)-derived DPCs can be used to bioengineer PDL tissues on titanium implants in a novel, in vivo rat maxillary molar implant model. Analyses of recovered implants revealed organized PDL tissues surrounding titanium implant surfaces in PDL-cell-seeded, and not in unseeded control, implants. Rat PDL DPCs also exhibited differentiative potential characteristic of stem cells. These proof-of-principle findings suggest that PDL DPCs can organize periodontal tissues in the jaw, at the site of previously lost teeth, indicating that this method holds potential as an alternative approach to osseointegrated dental implants. Further refinement of this approach will facilitate the development of clinically relevant methods for autologous PDL regeneration on titanium implants in humans.
Study of tissue engineered bone nodules by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy.	The key criteria for assessing the success of bone tissue engineering are the quality and quantity of the produced minerals within the cultured constructs. The accumulation of calcium ions and inorganic phosphates in culture medium serves as nucleating agents for the formation of hydroxyapatite, which is the main inorganic component of bone. Bone nodule formation is one of the hallmarks of mineralization in such cell cultures. In this study, we developed a new two-step procedure to accelerate bone formation in which mouse bone cell aggregates were produced first on various chemically treated non-adhesive substrates. After this step, the bone cells' growth and mineralization were followed in conventional culture plates. The number and size of cell aggregates were studied with light microscopy. The minerals' formation in the form of nodules produced by the cell aggregates and the bone crystal quality were studied with Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The FTIR spectra of the ash specimens (mineral phase only) from thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) provided valuable information of the quality of the minerals. The (4) PO(4) region (550-650 cm(-1)), which reveals apatitic and non-apatitic HPO(4) or PO(4) environments, and phosphate region (910-1180 cm(-1)) were examined for the minerals produced in the form of nodules. The peak position and intensity of the spectra demonstrate that the quality of the bone produced by cell aggregates, especially from the bigger ones, which were formed on Plunoric treated substrates, exhibit a composition more similar to that of native bone. This work establishes a new protocol for high quality bone formation and characterization, with the potential to be applied to bone tissue engineering.
Cytocompatibility studies of mouse pancreatic islets on gelatin--PVP semi IPN scaffolds in vitro: potential implication towards pancreatic tissue engineering.	Type 1 diabetes is a chronic disorder that results due to auto immune destruction of insulin producing cells, which leads to hyperglycemia in the blood. The development of an ideal scaffold for maintaining the structure and function of islets is a challenge in the field of pancreatic tissue engineering. In this study, gelatin (G) as well as gelatin / PVP (GP) semi interpenetrating polymer network scaffolds have been fabricated by freeze drying technique and cross linked with gluteraldehyde (GTA) and 1-Ethyl-3-[3-dimethylaminopropyl] carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC), which was abbreviated as GG, GPG (cross linked with GTA) GE, and GPE (cross linked with EDC). The presence of gelatin and PVP in GPE and GPG scaffolds was confirmed through FTIR and TGA. The medium uptake ability of GPE and GPG scaffolds were higher than GG and GE scaffolds. The scaffolds were then analyzed for its ability to maintain the viability and function of mouse pancreatic islet cells in vitro. The results showed that the islets can adhere, but it tends to lose the structure and function on all the scaffolds after day 7, except on GPE where they remained intact up to day 30. Thus the present study clearly demonstrates that gelatin incorporated with PVP and cross linked with EDC scaffolds could support and maintain islet cells for prolonged period.
Simultaneous application of interstitial flow and cyclic mechanical strain to a three-dimensional cell-seeded hydrogel.	The present study describes the design and validation of a simple apparatus to apply simultaneous mechanical and fluidic stress to three-dimensional (3D) cell-seeded collagen hydrogels. Constructs were formed in wells in a silicone substrate that could be stretched cyclically, and were also fitted with inlet ports to apply fluid flow. Acid etching was used to retain adhesion of the gels to the walls of the well, and an acellular layer of collagen hydrogel was used to distribute flow evenly. Finite element modeling showed that 5% uniaxial strain applied to the entire silicone substrate resulted in 6.5% strain in each of the gel constructs. Permeability testing and flow observation showed that acellular hydrogels were fourfold more permeable than cardiac fibroblast-seeded gels, and that the fluid distributed evenly in the acellular layer before entering the cell-seeded gel. Viability testing and imaging demonstrated that cells remained viable with expected fibroblast morphology for the 120 h duration of the experiments. These results demonstrate that this simple bioreactor can be used to study the effects of mechanical strain and interstitial flow in 3D protein hydrogels. Such 3D tissue models have utility in studying cell and tissue responses to their mechanical environment.
Non-viral gene delivery to mesenchymal stem cells: methods, strategies and application in bone tissue engineering and regeneration.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can be isolated from several tissues in the body, have the ability to self-renewal, show immune suppressive properties and are multipotent, being able to generate various cell types. At present, due to their intrinsic characteristics, MSCs are considered very promising in the area of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. In this context, genetic modification can be a powerful tool to control the behavior and fate of these cells and be used in the design of new cellular therapies. Viral systems are very effective in the introduction of exogenous genes inside MSCs. However, the risks associated with their use are leading to an increasing search for non-viral approaches to attain the same purpose, even if MSCs have been shown to be more difficult to transfect in this way. In the past few years, progress was made in the development of chemical and physical methods for non-viral gene delivery. Herein, an overview of the application of those methods specifically to MSCs is given and their use in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine therapeutic strategies highlighted using the example of bone tissue. Key issues and future directions in non-viral gene delivery to MSCs are also critically addressed.
Developing vasculature and stroma in engineered human myocardium.	We recently developed a scaffold-free patch of human myocardium with human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes and showed that stromal and endothelial cells form vascular networks in vitro and improve cardiomyocyte engraftment. Here, we hypothesize that stromal cells regulate the angiogenic phenotype by modulating the extracellular matrix (ECM). Human marrow stromal cells (hMSCs) support the greatest degree of endothelial cell organization, at 1.3- to 2.4-fold higher than other stromal cells tested. Stromal cells produce abundant ECM components in patches, including fibrillar collagen, hyaluronan, and versican. We identified two clonal hMSC lines that supported endothelial networks poorly and robustly. Interestingly, the pro-angiogenic hMSCs express high levels of versican, a chondroitin sulfate proteglycan that modulates angiogenesis and wound healing, whereas poorly angiogenic hMSCs produce little versican. When transplanted onto uninjured athymic rat hearts, patches with proangiogenic hMSCs develop ~ 50-fold more human vessels and form anastomoses with the host circulation, resulting in chimeric vessels containing erythrocytes. Thus, stromal cells play a key role in supporting vascularization of engineered human myocardium. Different stromal cell types vary widely in their proangiogenic ability, likely due in part to differences in ECM synthesis. Comparison of these cells defines an in vitro predictive platform for studying vascular development.
Matrigel improves functional properties of primary human salivary gland cells.	Currently, there is no effective treatment available to patients with irreversible loss of functional salivary acini caused by Sjogren's syndrome or after radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. A tissue-engineered artificial salivary gland would help these patients. The graft cells for this device must establish tight junctions in addition to being of fluid-secretory nature. This study analyzed a graft source from human salivary glands (huSG) cultured on Matrigel. Cells were obtained from parotid and submandibular glands, expanded in vitro, and then plated on either Matrigel-coated (2 mg/mL) or uncoated culture dish. Immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy, quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and transepithelial electrical resistance were employed. On Matrigel, huSG cells adopted an acinar phenotype by forming three-dimensional acinar-like units (within 24 h of plating) as well as a monolayer of cells. On uncoated surfaces (plastic), huSG cells only formed monolayers of ductal cells. Both types of culture conditions allowed huSG cells to express tight junction proteins (claudin-1, -2, -3, -4; occludin; JAM-A; and ZO-1) and adequate transepithelial electrical resistance. Importantly, 99% of huSG cells on Matrigel expressed -amylase and the water channel protein Aquaporin-5, as compared to <5% of huSG cells on plastic. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed an acinar phenotype with many secretory granules. Matrigel increased the secretion of -amylase two to five folds into the media, downregulated certain salivary genes, and regulated the translation of acinar proteins. This three-dimensional in vitro serum-free cell culture method allows the organization and differentiation of huSG cells into salivary cells with an acinar phenotype.
Chondrogenesis of rabbit mesenchymal stem cells in fibrin/hyaluronan composite scaffold in vitro.	Scaffold material is expected to play a crucial role in induction of chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for cartilage tissue engineering. Here we demonstrated the feasibility of a fibrin/hyaluronan (HA) composite hydrogel as a potent scaffold for support of chondrogenesis of rabbit MSCs (rMSCs). rMSCs were prepared in three-dimensional cultures of pellet, alginate layer, and fibrin/HA gel. Specimens in each group were cultured in chondrogenic defined media for 4 weeks in the absence or presence of transforming growth factor 1 (TGF-1) treatment. Viability of rMSCs was somewhat reduced until 4 weeks, which was less significant in fibrin/HA gels than in the alginate layer (*p<0.05). The fibrin/HA group showed transient size reduction by about 35% at 1 week, but showed significantly higher mechanical strength than the alginate group. In safranin-O and alcian blue stains, accumulation of sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) was observed clearly from 1 week, and homogenously in the entire area at 4 weeks in the fibrin/HA group. Of note, TGF-1 treatment showed no additional effect on GAGs accumulation in the fibrin/HA group. The alginate and pellet groups, however, showed much lower levels of GAGs accumulation only in the presence of TGF-1. Biochemical assays for GAGs and collagen, and expression of chondrogenic markers also showed much better results in the fibrin/HA group, even without TGF- treatment than the other groups. These results demonstrated that fibrin/HA composite gel efficiently promoted chondrogenic differentiation of rMSCs, even without TGF- treatment, and that it could be a useful tool for use in cartilage tissue engineering.
Preclinical assessment of a tissue-engineered vasomotive human small-calibered vessel based on a decellularized xenogenic matrix: histological and functional characterization.	Tissue-engineered arterial vessels (TEAV) offer substantial advantages in small-calibered human-bypass-grafting and vascularized scaffold applications. However, histological composition of TEAV must allow for functional properties, such as vasomotoricity. Aim of this study was to characterize human TEAVs regarding morphology and vasomotoricity.
A sandwich model for engineering cartilage with acellular cartilage sheets and chondrocytes.	Acellular cartilage can provide a native extracellular matrix for cartilage engineering. However, it is difficult for cells to migrate into acellular cartilage because of its non-porous structure. The aim of this study is to establish a sandwich model for engineering cartilage with acellular cartilage sheets and chondrocytes. Cartilage from adult pig ear was cut into a circular cylinder with a diameter of approximately 6mm and freeze-sectioned at thicknesses of 10m and 30m. The sheets were then decellularized and lyophilized. Chondrocytes isolated from newborn pig ear were expanded for 2 passages. The acellular sheets and chondrocytes were then stacked layer-by-layer, in a sandwich model, and cultured in dishes. After 4 weeks of cultivation, the constructs were then either maintained in culture for another 12 weeks or implanted subcutaneously in nude mouse. Histological analysis showed that cells were completely removed from cartilage sheets after decellularization. By re-seeding cells and stacking 20 layers of sheets together, a cylinder-shaped cell sheet was achieved. Cartilage-like tissues formed after 4 weeks of culture. Histological analyses showed the formation of cartilage with a typical lacunar structure. Cartilage formation was more efficient with 10m-thick sheets than with 30m sheets. Mature cartilage was achieved after 12 weeks of implantation, which was demonstrated by histology and confirmed by Safranin O, Toluidine blue and anti-type II collagen antibody staining. Furthermore, we achieved cartilage with a designed shape by pre-shaping the sheets prior to implantation. These results indicate that the sandwich model could be a useful model for engineering cartilage in vitro and in vivo.
Ruthenium-catalyzed photo cross-linking of fibrin-based engineered tissue.	Most cross-linking methods utilize chemistry or physical processes that are detrimental to cells and tissue development. Those that are not as harmful often do not provide a level of strength that ultimately meets the required application. The purpose of this work was to investigate the use of a ruthenium-sodium persulfate cross-linking system to form dityrosine in fibrin-based engineered tissue. By utilizing the tyrosine residues inherent to fibrin and cell-deposited proteins, at least 3-fold mechanical strength increases and 10-fold stiffness increases were achieved after cross-linking. This strengthening and stiffening effect was found to increase with culture duration prior to cross-linking such that physiologically relevant properties were obtained. Fibrin was not required for this effect as demonstrated by testing with collagen-based engineered tissue. Cross-linked tissues were implanted subcutaneously and shown to have minimal inflammation after 30 days, similar to non-cross-linked controls. Overall, the method employed is rapid, non-toxic, minimally inflammatory, and is capable of increasing strength and stiffness of engineered tissues to physiological levels.
Self-complementary AAV2.5-BMP2-coated femoral allografts mediated superior bone healing versus live autografts in mice with equivalent biomechanics to unfractured femur.	Structural allografts used for critical bone defects have limited osteogenic properties for biointegration. Although ex vivo tissue-engineered constructs expressing bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2) have demonstrated efficacy in critical defect models, similar success has not been achieved with off-the-shelf acellular approaches, including allografts coated with freeze-dried single-stranded adeno-associated virus (ssAAV-BMP2). To see whether the self-complementary AAV serotype 2.5 vector (scAAV2.5-BMP2) could overcome this, we performed side-by-side comparisons in vitro and in the murine femoral allograft model. Although ssAAV-BMP2 was unable to induce BMP2 expression and differentiation of C3H10T1/2 cells in culture, scAAV2.5-BMP2 transduction led to dose-dependent BMP2 expression and alkaline phosphatase activity, and displayed a 25-fold increased transduction efficiency in vivo. After 6 weeks, the ssAAV-BMP2 coating failed to demonstrate any significant effects. However, all allografts coated with 10(10) scAAV2.5-BMP2 formed a new cortical shell that was indistinguishable to that formed by live autografts. Additionally, coated allografts experienced reduced resorption resulting in a threefold increase in graft bone volume versus autograft. This led to biomechanical superiority versus both allografts and autografts, and equivalent torsional rigidity to unfractured femur. Collectively, these results demonstrate that scAAV2.5-BMP2 coating overcomes the major limitations of structural allografts, which can be used to heal critical defects of any size.
Autologous extracellular matrix scaffolds for tissue engineering.	Development of autologous scaffolds has been highly desired for implantation without eliciting adverse inflammatory and immune responses. However, it has been difficult to obtain autologous scaffolds by tissue decellularization because of the restricted availability of autologous donor tissues from a patient. Here we report a method to prepare autologous extracellular matrix (aECM) scaffolds by combining culture of autologous cells in a three-dimensional template, decellularization, and template removal. The aECM scaffolds showed excellent biocompatibility when implanted. We anticipate that "Full Autologous Tissue Engineering" can be realized to minimize undesirable host tissue responses by culturing the patient's own cells in an aECM scaffold.
Adequacy of herniated disc tissue as a cell source for nucleus pulposus regeneration.	The object of this study was to characterize the regenerative potential of cells isolated from herniated disc tissue obtained during microdiscectomy. The acquired data could help to evaluate the feasibility of these cells for autologous disc cell transplantation.
Rapidly constructed scaffold-free cornea epithelial sheets for ocular surface reconstruction.	To develop a centrifugal cell seeding method for rapid and efficient reconstruction of ocular surface with limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD) in rabbits.
Multiscale biomimetic topography for the alignment of neonatal and embryonic stem cell-derived heart cells.	Nano- and microscale topographical cues play critical roles in the induction and maintenance of various cellular functions, including morphology, adhesion, gene regulation, and communication. Recent studies indicate that structure and function at the heart tissue level is exquisitely sensitive to mechanical cues at the nano-scale as well as at the microscale level. Although fabrication methods exist for generating topographical features for cell culture, current techniques, especially those with nanoscale resolution, are typically complex, prohibitively expensive, and not accessible to most biology laboratories. Here, we present a tunable culture platform comprised of biomimetic wrinkles that simulate the heart's complex anisotropic and multiscale architecture for facile and robust cardiac cell alignment. We demonstrate the cellular and subcellular alignment of both neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes as well as those derived from human embryonic stem cells. By mimicking the fibrillar network of the extracellular matrix, this system enables monitoring of protein localization in real time and therefore the high-resolution study of phenotypic and physiologic responses to in-vivo like topographical cues.
Rapid attachment of adipose stromal cells on resorbable polymeric scaffolds facilitates the one-step surgical procedure for cartilage and bone tissue engineering purposes.	The stromal vascular fraction (SVF) of adipose tissue provides an abundant source of mesenchymal stem cells. For clinical application, it would be beneficial to establish treatments in which SVF is obtained, seeded onto a scaffold, and returned into the patient within a single surgical procedure. In this study, we evaluated the suitability of both a macroporous poly(L-lactide-co-caprolactone) and a porous collagen type I/III scaffold for this purpose. Surprisingly, cell attachment was rapid (10min) and sequestered the majority of adipose stem cells, as deduced from colony-forming unit assays. Proliferation occurred in both polymeric scaffolds. Upon chondrogenic induction, up-regulation of chondrogenic genes, production of glycosaminoglycans, and accumulation of collagen type II was observed, indicating differentiation of scaffold-attached SVF cells along the chondrogenic lineage. Osteogenic differentiation was achieved in both scaffold types, as visualized by up-regulation of osteogenic genes, increase of alkaline phosphatase production over time, and accumulation of bone sialoprotein and osteonectin. In conclusion, this study identifies both poly(L-lactide-co-caprolactone) and collagen type I/III as promising scaffold materials for rapid attachment of adipose stem cell-like (stromal) cells, enhancing the development of one-step surgical concepts for cartilage and bone tissue engineering.
Poly(Glycerol sebacate)/gelatin core/shell fibrous structure for regeneration of myocardial infarction.	Heart failure remains the leading cause of death in many industrialized nations owing to the inability of the myocardial tissue to regenerate. The main objective of this work was to develop a cardiac patch that is biocompatible and matches the mechanical properties of the heart muscle for myocardial infarction. The present study was to fabricate poly (glycerol sebacate)/gelatin (PGS/gelatin) core/shell fibers and gelatin fibers alone by electrospinning for cardiac tissue engineering. PGS/gelatin core/shell fibers, PGS used as a core polymer to impart the mechanical properties and gelatin as a shell material to achieve favorable cell adhesion and proliferation. These core/shell fibers were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, contact angle, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and tensile testing. The cell-scaffold interactions were analyzed by cell proliferation, confocal analysis for the expression of marker proteins like actinin, troponin-T, and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule, and scanning electron microscopy to analyze cell morphology. Dual immunofluorescent staining was performed to further confirm the cardiogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells by employing mesenchymal stem cell-specific marker protein CD 105 and cardiac-specific marker protein actinin. The results observed that PGS/gelatin core/shell fibers have good potential biocompatibility and mechanical properties for fabricating nanofibrous cardiac patch and would be a prognosticating device for the restoration of myocardium.
In vitro assessment of the differentiation potential of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells on genipin-chitosan conjugation scaffold with surface hydroxyapatite nanostructure for bone tissue engineering.	Increasing evidence has revealed that the surface characteristics of biomaterials, such as chemical composition, stiffness, and topography, especially nanotopography, significantly influence cell growth and differentiation. In this study, we examined the effect of surface biomimetic apatite nanostructure of a new hydroxyapatite-coated genipin-chitosan conjugation scaffold (HGCCS) on cell shape, cytoskeleton organization, and osteogenic differentiation of rat bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells in vitro. Cell shape and cytoskeleton organization showed significant differences between cells cultured on genipin-cross-linked chitosan framework and those cultured on HGCCS with surface apatite network-like nanostructure after 7 days of incubation in the osteogenic medium. The result of specific alkaline phosphatase activity as an indicator of osteogenic differentiation showed that the alkaline phosphatase activity of rat bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells was higher on HGCCS. Based on quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, HGCCS induced highest mRNA expression of osteogenic differentiation makers, runt-related transcription factor 2 by 7 days, osteopontin by 7 days, and osteocalcin by 14 days, respectively. The enhanced ability of cells on HGCCS to produce mineralized extracellular matrix and nodules was also assessed on day 14 with Alizarin red staining. The results of this study suggest that the surface biomimetic apatite nanostructure of HGCCS is a critical signal cue to promoting osteogenic differentiation in vitro. These findings open a new research avenue to controlling stem cell lineage commitment and provide a promising scaffold for bone tissue engineering.
Hydrogel network design using multifunctional macromers to coordinate tissue maturation in ovarian follicle culture.	Synthetic hydrogels with tunable properties are appealing for regenerative medicine. A critical limitation in hydrogel design at low solids concentration is the formation of defects, which increase gelation times and swelling, and reduce elasticity. Here, we report that trifunctional cross-linking peptides applied to 4-arm poly-(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels decreased swelling and gelation time relative to bi-functional crosslinkers. In contrast to bi-functional peptides, the third cross-linking site on the peptide created a branch point if an intramolecular cross-link formed, which prevented non-functional "dangling-ends" in the hydrogel network and enhanced the number of elastically active cross-links. The improved network formation enabled mouse ovarian follicle encapsulation and maturation in vitro. Hydrogels with bi-functional crosslinkers resulted in cellular dehydration, likely due to osmosis during the prolonged gelation. For trifunctional crosslinkers, the hydrogels supported a 17-fold volumetric expansion of the tissue during culture, with expansion dependent on the ability of the follicle to rearrange its microenvironment, which is controlled through the sensitivity of the cross-linking peptide to the proteolytic activity of plasmin. The improved network design enabled ovarian follicle culture in a completely synthetic system, and can advance fertility preservation technology for women facing premature infertility from anticancer therapies.
Silk fibroin in ocular tissue reconstruction.	The silk structural protein fibroin displays potential for use in tissue engineering. We present here our opinion of its value as a biomaterial for reconstructing tissues of clinical significance within the human eye. We review the strengths and weaknesses of using fibroin in those parts of the eye that we believe are most amenable to cellular reconstruction, namely the corneoscleral limbus, corneal stroma, corneal endothelium and outer blood-retinal barrier (Ruysch's complex). In these areas we find that by employing the range of manufacturing products afforded by fibroin, relevant structural assemblies can be made for cells expanded ex vivo. Significant questions now need to be answered concerning the effect of this biomaterial on the phenotype of key cell types and the biocompatibility of fibroin within the eye. We conclude that fibroin's strength, structural versatility and potential for modification, combined with the relative simplicity of associated manufacturing processes, make fibroin a worthy candidate for further exploration.
Lineage restriction of human hepatic stem cells to mature fates is made efficient by tissue-specific biomatrix scaffolds.	Current protocols for differentiation of stem cells make use of multiple treatments of soluble signals and/or matrix factors and result typically in partial differentiation to mature cells with under- or overexpression of adult tissue-specific genes. We developed a strategy for rapid and efficient differentiation of stem cells using substrata of biomatrix scaffolds, tissue-specific extracts enriched in extracellular matrix, and associated growth factors and cytokines, in combination with a serum-free, hormonally defined medium (HDM) tailored for the adult cell type of interest. Biomatrix scaffolds were prepared by a novel, four-step perfusion decellularization protocol using conditions designed to keep all collagen types insoluble. The scaffolds maintained native histology, patent vasculatures, and 1% of the tissue's proteins but >95% of its collagens, most of the tissue's collagen-associated matrix components, and physiological levels of matrix-bound growth factors and cytokines. Collagens increased from almost undetectable levels to >15% of the scaffold's proteins with the remainder including laminins, fibronectins, elastin, nidogen/entactin, proteoglycans, and matrix-bound cytokines and growth factors in patterns that correlate with histology. Human hepatic stem cells (hHpSCs), seeded onto liver biomatrix scaffolds and in an HDM tailored for adult liver cells, lost stem cell markers and differentiated to mature, functional parenchymal cells in 1 week, remaining viable and with stable mature cell phenotypes for more than 8 weeks.
Angiogenesis and osteogenesis enhanced by bFGF ex vivo gene therapy for bone tissue engineering in reconstruction of calvarial defects.	Reconstruction of bone defects by tissue engineered substitutes requires coordinated coupling between osteogenesis and angiogenesis. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF or FGF-2) is a protein which acts actively in osteogenesis and angiogenesis during skeletal healing and development. It is hypothesized that BMSCs transfected with bFGF can directly stimulate regeneration of vascular tissue, and subsequently enhance osseous formation and remodeling after implantation of the tissue engineered bone. This study was designed to examine the impact of bFGF-BMSCs, seeded on nano-hydroxyapatite/polyamide66 (n-HA/PA66) composite scaffold, to enhance angiogenesis and osteogenesis in a calvarial critical-sized defect model in rats. To investigate the vascularization and bone formation of tissue engineered bone, the substrate was removed and processed for immunohistochemical, scanning electron microscopic examinations (SEM), reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), microvessels counting, and new bone volume assay. The results demonstrate that bFGF mediated ex vivo gene transfer based on BMSCs can accelerate vascularization and bone regeneration on these composite scaffolds. The n-HA/PA66 scaffold combined with the bFGF-BMSCs may mimic the natural process of osteogenesis during repair of defect by tissue engineered bone.
A model for tissue engineering applications: femoral critical size defect in immunodeficient mice.	Animal models for preclinical functionality assays lie midway between in vitro systems such as cell culture and actual clinical trials. We have developed a novel external fixation device for femoral critical size defect (CSD) in the femurs of immunodeficient mice as an experimental model for studying bone regeneration and bone tissue engineering. The external fixation device comprises four pointed rods and dental acrylic paste. A segmental bone defect (2 mm) was created in the midshaft of the mouse femur. The CSD in the femur of the mice were either left untreated or treated with a bone allograft, a cell-scaffold construct, or a scaffold-only construct. The repair and healing processes of the CSD were monitored by digital x-ray radiography, microcomputed tomography, and histology. Repair of the femoral CSD was achieved with the bone allografts, and partial repair of the femoral CSD was achieved with the cell scaffold and the scaffold-only constructs. No repair of the nongrafted femoral CSD was observed. Our results establish the feasibility of this new mouse femoral model for CSD repair of segmental bone using a simple stabilized external fixation device. The model should prove especially useful for in vivo preclinical proof-of-concept studies that involve cell therapy-based technologies for bone tissue engineering applications in humans.
Use of an autologous bioengineered composite skin in extensive burns: Clinical and functional outcomes. A multicentric study.	We report clinical and functional outcomes obtained after application of an autologous bioengineered composite skin (ABCS) produced in a single Spanish tissue-engineering unit.
Preparation of a decellularized rat liver scaffold and its biocompatibility]	To develop a novel method for preparing decellularized liver biological scaffold (DLBS) for liver tissue engineering.
Use of calcium phosphate cement scaffolds for bone tissue engineering: in vitro study.	To evaluate the ability of macroporous tricalcium phosphate cement (CPC) scaffolds to enable the adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells derived from human bone marrow.
The use of whole organ decellularization for the generation of a vascularized liver organoid.	A major roadblock to successful organ bioengineering is the need for a functional vascular network within the engineered tissue. Here, we describe the fabrication of three-dimensional, naturally derived scaffolds with an intact vascular tree. Livers from different species were perfused with detergent to selectively remove the cellular components of the tissue while preserving the extracellular matrix components and the intact vascular network. The decellularized vascular network was able to withstand fluid flow that entered through a central inlet vessel, branched into an extensive capillary bed, and coalesced into a single outlet vessel. The vascular network was used to reseed the scaffolds with human fetal liver and endothelial cells. These cells engrafted in their putative native locations within the decellularized organ and displayed typical endothelial, hepatic, and biliary epithelial markers, thus creating a liver-like tissue in vitro.
Finite element method (FEM), mechanobiology and biomimetic scaffolds in bone tissue engineering.	Techniques of bone reconstructive surgery are largely based on conventional, non-cell-based therapies that rely on the use of durable materials from outside the patient's body. In contrast to conventional materials, bone tissue engineering is an interdisciplinary field that applies the principles of engineering and life sciences towards the development of biological substitutes that restore, maintain, or improve bone tissue function. Bone tissue engineering has led to great expectations for clinical surgery or various diseases that cannot be solved with traditional devices. For example, critical-sized defects in bone, whether induced by primary tumor resection, trauma, or selective surgery have in many cases presented insurmountable challenges to the current gold standard treatment for bone repair. The primary purpose of bone tissue engineering is to apply engineering principles to incite and promote the natural healing process of bone which does not occur in critical-sized defects. The total market for bone tissue regeneration and repair was valued at $1.1 billion in 2007 and is projected to increase to nearly $1.6 billion by 2014.Usually, temporary biomimetic scaffolds are utilized for accommodating cell growth and bone tissue genesis. The scaffold has to promote biological processes such as the production of extra-cellular matrix and vascularisation, furthermore the scaffold has to withstand the mechanical loads acting on it and to transfer them to the natural tissues located in the vicinity. The design of a scaffold for the guided regeneration of a bony tissue requires a multidisciplinary approach. Finite element method and mechanobiology can be used in an integrated approach to find the optimal parameters governing bone scaffold performance.In this paper, a review of the studies that through a combined use of finite element method and mechano-regulation algorithms described the possible patterns of tissue differentiation in biomimetic scaffolds for bone tissue engineering is given. Firstly, the generalities of the finite element method of structural analysis are outlined; second, the issues related to the generation of a finite element model of a given anatomical site or of a bone scaffold are discussed; thirdly, the principles on which mechanobiology is based, the principal theories as well as the main applications of mechano-regulation models in bone tissue engineering are described; finally, the limitations of the mechanobiological models and the future perspectives are indicated.
Primary human hepatocytes on biodegradable poly(l-lactic acid) matrices: a promising model for improving transplantation efficiency with tissue engineering.	Liver transplantation is an established treatment for acute and chronic liver disease. However, because of the shortage of donor organs, it does not fulfill the needs of all patients. Hepatocyte transplantation is promising as an alternative method for the treatment of end-stage liver disease and as bridging therapy until liver transplantation. Our group has been working on the optimization of matrix-based hepatocyte transplantation. In order to increase cell survival after transplantation, freshly isolated human hepatocytes were seeded onto biodegradable poly(l-lactic acid) (PLLA) polymer scaffolds and were cultured in a flow bioreactor. PLLA discs were seeded with human hepatocytes and exposed to a recirculated medium flow for 6 days. Human hepatocytes formed spheroidal aggregates with a liver-like morphology and active metabolic function. Phase contrast microscopy showed increasing numbers of spheroids of increasing diameter during the culture period. Hematoxylin and eosin histology showed viable and intact hepatocytes inside the spheroids. Immunohistochemistry confirmed sustained hepatocyte function and a preserved hepatocyte-specific cytoskeleton. Albumin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, and urea assays showed continued production during the culture period. Northern blot analysis demonstrated increasing albumin signals. Scanning electron micrographs showed hepatocyte spheroids with relatively smooth undulating surfaces and numerous microvilli. Transmission electron micrographs revealed intact hepatocytes and junctional complexes with coated pits and vesicles inside the spheroids. Therefore, we conclude that primary human hepatocytes, precultured in a flow bioreactor on a PLLA scaffold, reorganize to form morphologically intact liver neotissue, and this might offer an optimized method for hepatocyte transplantation because of the expected reduction of the initial cell loss, the high regenerative potential in vivo, and the preformed functional integrity.
A bioresponsive hydrogel tuned to chondrogenesis of human mesenchymal stem cells.	Cartilage tissue engineering aims to replace damaged or diseased tissue with a functional regenerate that restores joint function. Scaffolds are used to deliver cells and facilitate tissue development, but they can also interfere with the structural assembly of the cartilage matrix. Biodegradable scaffolds have been proposed as a means to improve matrix deposition and the biomechanical properties of neocartilage. The challenge is designing scaffolds with appropriate degradation rates, ideally such that scaffold degradation is proportional to matrix deposition. In this study, we developed a bioresponsive hydrogel with cell-mediated degradation aligned to the chondrogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs). We identified matrix metalloproteinase 7 (MMP7) as an enzyme with a temporal expression pattern that corresponded with cartilage development. By embedding MMP7 peptide substrates within a poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate backbone, we built MMP7-sensitive hydrogels with distinct degradation rates. When MMP7-sensitive scaffolds were compared with nondegradable scaffolds in vitro, photoencapsulated hMSCs produced neocartilage constructs with more extensive collagenous matrices, as demonstrated through immunohistochemistry and biochemical quantification of matrix molecules. Furthermore, these changes translated into an increased dynamic compressive modulus. This work presents a practical strategy for designing biomaterials uniquely tuned to individual biological processes.
Decreased mechanical properties of heart valve tissue constructs cultured in platelet lysate as compared to fetal bovine serum.	In autologous heart valve tissue engineering, there is an ongoing search for alternatives of fetal bovine serum (FBS). Human platelet-lysate (PL) might be a promising substitute. In the present article, we aimed to examine the tissue formation, functionality, and mechanical properties of engineered three-dimensional tissue constructs cultured in PL as a substitute for FBS. Our results show that tissue constructs that were cultured in PL and FBS produce similar amounts of collagen, glycosoaminoglycans, and collagen crosslinks, and that the cellular phenotype remains unchanged. Nevertheless, mechanical testing showed that the ultimate tensile strength in PL constructs was on average approximately three times lower as compared to FBS (0.25 vs. 0.74 MPa, respectively, p<0.01), and also the elastic modulus was almost three times lower (1.33 MPa of PL constructs vs. 3.94 MPa of FBS constructs, p<0.01). Additional tests indicated that this difference might be explained by different collagen fiber architecture possibly due to increased production of matrix-degrading proteases by cells cultured in PL. In summary, our results indicate that PL is not preferred for the culture of strong heart valve tissue constructs.
Readily available tissue-engineered vascular grafts.	Autologous or synthetic vascular grafts are used routinely for providing access in hemodialysis or for arterial bypass in patients with cardiovascular disease. However, some patients either lack suitable autologous tissue or cannot receive synthetic grafts. Such patients could benefit from a vascular graft produced by tissue engineering. Here, we engineer vascular grafts using human allogeneic or canine smooth muscle cells grown on a tubular polyglycolic acid scaffold. Cellular material was removed with detergents to render the grafts nonimmunogenic. Mechanical properties of the human vascular grafts were similar to native human blood vessels, and the grafts could withstand long-term storage at 4 C. Human engineered grafts were tested in a baboon model of arteriovenous access for hemodialysis. Canine grafts were tested in a dog model of peripheral and coronary artery bypass. Grafts demonstrated excellent patency and resisted dilatation, calcification, and intimal hyperplasia. Such tissue-engineered vascular grafts may provide a readily available option for patients without suitable autologous tissue or for those who are not candidates for synthetic grafts.
Cranioplasty with adipose-derived stem cells and biomaterial: a novel method for cranial reconstruction.	There is no optimal method for reconstruction of large calvarial defects. Because of the limitations of autologous bone grafts and alloplastic materials, new methods for performing cranioplasties are needed.
Characterization of human myoblast differentiation for tissue-engineering purposes by quantitative gene expression analysis.	Tissue engineering of skeletal muscle is an encouraging possibility for the treatment of muscle loss through the creation of functional muscle tissue in vitro from human stem cells. Currently, the preferred stem cells are primary, non-immunogenic satellite cells ( = myoblasts). The objective of this study was to determine the expression patterns of myogenic markers within the human satellite cell population during their differentiation into multinucleated myotubes for an accurate characterization of stem cell behaviour. Satellite cells were incubated (for 1, 4, 8, 12 or 16 days) with a culture medium containing either a low [ = differentiation medium (DM)] or high [ = growth medium (GM)] concentration of growth factors. Furthermore, we performed a quantitative gene expression analysis of well-defined differentiation makers: myogenic factor 5 (MYF5), myogenin (MYOG), skeletal muscle actin1 (ACTA1), embryonic (MYH3), perinatal (MYH8) and adult skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain (MYH1). Additionally, the fusion indices of forming myotubes of MYH1, MYH8 and ACTA1 were calculated. We show that satellite cells incubated with DM expressed multiple characteriztic features of mature skeletal muscles, verified by time-dependent upregulation of MYOG, MYH1, MYH3, MYH8 and ACTA1. However, satellite cells incubated with GM did not reveal all morphological aspects of muscle differentiation. Immunocytochemical investigations with antibodies directed against the differentiation markers showed correlations between the gene expression and differentiation. Our data provide information about time-dependent gene expression of differentiation markers in human satellite cells, which can be used for maturation analyses in skeletal muscle tissue-engineering applications.
Electrospun scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering aims to regenerate native tissues and will represent the alternative choice of standard surgery for different kind of tissue damages. The fundamental basis of tissue engineering is the appropriate selection of scaffolds and their morphological, mechanical, chemical, and biomimetic properties, closely related to cell lines that will be seeded therein. The aim of this review is to summarize and report the innovative scientific contributions published in the field of orthopedic tissue engineering, in particular about bone tissue engineering. We have focused our attention on the electrospinning technique, as a scaffold fabrication method. Electrospun materials are being evaluated as scaffolds for bone tissue engineering, and the results of all these studies clearly indicate that they represent suitable potential substrates for cell-based technologies.
Mechanical properties of natural cartilage and tissue-engineered constructs.	There has been much research over the past two decades with the aim of engineering cartilage constructs for repairing or restoring damaged cartilage. To engineer healthy neocartilage, the constructs must have mechanical properties matching those of native cartilage as well as appropriate for the loading conditions of the joint. This article discusses the mechanical behavior of native cartilage and surveys different types of tensile, compressive, and shear tests with their limitations. It also comprehensively reviews recent work and achievements in developing the mathematical models representing the mechanical properties of both native and engineered cartilage. Different methods for enhancing the mechanical properties of engineered cartilage are also discussed, including scaffold design, mechanical stimulation, and chemical stimulation. This article concludes with recommendations for future research aimed at achieving engineered cartilage with mechanical properties matching those found in native cartilage.
Cell behavior on protein matrices containing laminin 1 peptide AG73.	Collagen has been widely used for tissue engineering. Here, we applied bioactive laminin-derived peptides as an additive for collagen, laminin-111, and fibronectin matrices resulting in peptide/collagen, peptide/laminin-111, and peptide/fibronectin matrices. Several syndecan-binding peptides, including AG73 (RKRLQVQLSIRT), enhanced the cell attachment activity of collagen matrices. AG73 synergistically enhanced not only cell attachment but also cell spreading on collagen matrices. AG73 also enhanced integrin-binding to the collagen matrices, including organization of actin stress fibers and promotion of Tyr397-focal adhesion kinase (FAK) phosphorylation. Additionally, AG73 enhanced neurite outgrowth on collagen matrices. These results suggest that the integrin-mediated biological activity of collagen matrices is synergistically enhanced by the syndecan-mediated cellular function of AG73. Further, cell attachment and spreading activity of laminin-111 and fibronectin matrices was also synergistically enhanced by AG73. The syndecan-binding peptides are useful to enhance the integrin-mediated biological activities of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, such as collagen, laminin-111, and fibronectin. The peptide/matrix mixed method is a new concept for biomaterial fabrication and has the potential for wide use in cell and tissue engineering.
The combined bone forming capacity of human periosteal derived cells and calcium phosphates.	Current knowledge suggests that the periosteum, a fibrous tissue which covers the surface of all bones, contains a population of progenitor cells which mediate the repair of bone defects. In an effort to optimise the utilisation of this source of cells for bone engineering, herein we describe the rational selection of calcium phosphate (CaP) containing materials, based on biomaterial properties, and evaluation of their combined bone forming capacity. Five different commercially available orthopaedic 3D matrices composed of CaP particles in an open collagen network (NuOss, CopiOs, Bio-Oss(), Collagraft and Vitoss()) were evaluated in vitro and in vivo with human periosteal derived cells (hPDCs). It was found that the cell-material combinations behaved quite differently in vivo, despite apparent in vitro similarities in gene expression profiles. Bone formation was highest within the NuOss/hPDC implant at 13.03%, which also contained the highest incidence of bone marrow formation. The bone formed in this implant was chimeric with approximately 65% originating from implanted cells. Upon analysis of human specific gene expression, although it was found that predominantly osteogenic differentiation was observed within NuOss/hPDC implants, a lesser induction of chondrogenic genes was also observed. The formation of a cartilage intermediate was confirmed by histology. Additionally the NuOss/hPDC implant integrated into the mouse environment with apparent active scaffold resorption. This study demonstrates the importance of matching a cell support/biological matrix with a cell type and subsequently has outlined parameters which can be used for the rational selection of biomaterials for bone engineering.
Modulation of fibrin matrix properties via knob:hole affinity interactions using peptide-PEG conjugates.	Fibrin is a widely used biological scaffold in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. While the polymerization dynamics from its soluble precursor fibrinogen has been studied for decades, few attempts have been made to modulate fibrin network structure through the addition of external agents that actively engage this process. We propose the use of polyethylene glycol (PEG)-based linkers that interact with fibrinogen via knob:hole affinity interactions as a means of controlling thrombin-mediated fibrin polymerization dynamics and resulting network structure. Using bivalent and tetravalent knob-PEG conjugates with sizes ranging from 2 to 20 kDa, we demonstrate that the clotting characteristics of fibrinogen solutions can be altered in a dose-dependent manner, with conjugate size playing a major role in altering fibrin network structure. Interestingly, factor XIIIa-catalyzed fibrin(ogen) crosslinking and plasmin-mediated degradation were not significantly impacted. This work demonstrates the feasibility of modulating fibrin network structure through the addition of knob-PEG conjugates that perturb the polymerization process through non-covalent knob:hole interactions.
Three-dimensional growth of iPS cell-derived smooth muscle cells on nanofibrous scaffolds.	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have been considered as the major component for personalized regenerative medicine. However, the potential of iPSCs in constructing tissue-engineered (TE) blood vessels has not been exploited. In the present study, we generated mouse iPSCs with the combination of over-expression of 4 iPS factors and knock-down of p53 gene. The established iPSCs were then directed to differentiate into smooth muscle cells (SMCs) with the treatment of 10(-5) (M) all-trans retinoid acid (RA). The vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) treatment served as a spontaneous differentiation control. The differentiated cells were then cultured on three-dimensional (3D) macro-porous nanofibrous (NF) poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) scaffolds in vitro. Our data showed that the expression of SMC specific marker genes, including myocardin, smoothelin, SM22 and SMMHC, were higher for the group induced by RA than for the group treated by DMSO, while pluripotent marker gene expression was repressed by the RA-treatment. Upon subcutaneous implantation, the implanted cells maintained the SMC phenotype. In conclusion, the data suggest that iPSCs-derived SMCs can be an important cell source for personalized vascular tissue engineering applications.
Fabrication of nano-hydroxyapatite on electrospun silk fibroin nanofiber and their effects in osteoblastic behavior.	In this study, a novel tissue engineering scaffold material of electrospun silk fibroin/nano-hydroxyapatite (nHA) biocomposite was prepared by means of an effective calcium and phosphate (Ca-P) alternate soaking method. nHA was successfully produced on regenerated silk fibroin nanofiber as a substrate within several minutes without any pretreatments. The morphologies of both nonmineralized and mineralized nanofibers were analyzed using a field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM). The crystallographic phases of the nHA were analyzed using X-ray diffraction (XRD). Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrophotometer and thermogravimetry analyses (TGA) were employed to determine the type of functional groups and the amount of nHA presenting in the silk/nHA biocomposite nanofibers, respectively. The osteoblastic activities of this novel nanofibrous biocomposite scaffold were also investigated by employing osteoblastic-like MC3T3-E1 cell line. The cell functionality such as alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was ameliorated on mineralized nanofibers. All these results indicated that this silk/nHA biocomposite scaffold material may be a promising biomaterial for bone tissue engineering.
Incorporation of biomimetic matrix molecules in PEG hydrogels enhances matrix deposition and reduces load-induced loss of chondrocyte-secreted matrix.	Poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels offer numerous advantages in designing controlled 3D environments for cartilage regeneration, but offer little biorecognition for the cells. Incorporating molecules that more closely mimic the native tissue may provide key signals for matrix synthesis and may also help in the retention of neotissue, particularly when mechanical stimulation is employed. Therefore, this research tested the hypothesis that exogenous hyaluronan encapsulated within PEG hydrogels improves tissue deposition by chondrocytes, while the incorporation of Link-N (DHLSDNYTLDHDRAIH), a fragment of link protein that is involved in stabilizing hyaluronan and aggrecan in cartilage, aids in the retention of the entrapped hyaluronan as well as cell-secreted glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), particularly when dynamic loading is employed. The incorporation of Link-N as covalent tethers resulted in a significant reduction, ~60%, in the loss of entrapped exogenous hyaluronan under dynamic stimulation. When chondrocytes were encapsulated in PEG hydrogels containing exogenous hyaluronan and/or Link-N, the extracellular matrix (ECM) analogs aided in the retention of cell-secreted GAGs under loading. The presence of hyaluronan led to enhanced deposition of collagen type II and aggrecan. In conclusion, our results highlight the importance of ECM analogs, specifically hyaluronan and Link-N, in matrix retention and matrix development and offer new strategies for designing scaffolds for cartilage regeneration.
Decellularized extracellular matrix derived from human adipose tissue as a potential scaffold for allograft tissue engineering.	Decellularized tissues composed of extracellular matrix (ECM) have been clinically used to support the regeneration of various human tissues and organs. Most decellularized tissues so far have been derived from animals or cadavers. Therefore, despite the many advantages of decellularized tissue, there are concerns about the potential for immunogenicity and the possible presence of infectious agents. Herein, we present a biomaterial composed of ECM derived from human adipose tissue, the most prevalent, expendable, and safely harvested tissue in the human body. The ECM was extracted by successive physical, chemical, and enzymatic treatments of human adipose tissue isolated by liposuction. Cellular components including nucleic acids were effectively removed without significant disruption of the morphology or structure of the ECM. Major ECM components were quantified, including acid/pepsin-soluble collagen, sulfated glycosaminoglycan (GAG), and soluble elastin. In an in vivo experiment using mice, the decellularized ECM graft exhibited good compatibility to surrounding tissues. Overall results suggest that the decellularized ECM containing biological and chemical cues of native human ECM could be an ideal scaffold material not only for autologous but also for allograft tissue engineering.
Effects of an avidin-biotin binding system on Schwann cells attachment, proliferation, and gene expressions onto electrospun scaffolds.	Effective Schwann cells (SCs) attachment is a prerequisite for the successful construction of tissue-engineered nerve. The present study aimed to investigate the role of an avidin-biotin binding system (ABBS) for neural tissue engineering. The attachment, proliferation, and morphology of biotinylated SCs on avidin-treated scaffolds were examined, and the effects of avidin, biotin, and the avidin-biotin binding system on SCs gene expressions were also studied. The results indicated that the attachment of biotinylated SCs onto avidin-treated scaffolds was promoted obviously within a short time (10 min). Meanwhile, there were no great differences in terms of proliferation and morphology of SCs between the two groups after cultivation for 14 days. The gene expressions of S100, GDNF, BDNF, NGF, CNTF, and PMP22 were up-regulated significantly by biotin rather than aligned scaffolds or avidin. The present study demonstrated that ABBS enhanced the attachment and maturation of SCs onto the electrospun scaffolds without adverse effects on the proliferation of SCs in the long term, suggesting the potential application of ABBS in the neural tissue engineering.
Scaffold-based approach to direct stem cell neural and cardiovascular differentiation: an analysis of physical and biochemical effects.	Although stem cell therapy holds tremendous promise in tissue regeneration and disease treatment, its full potential may only be realized through the thorough understanding and capability in specifically directing stem cell fate commitment. A scaffold-based approach of imparting physical and biochemical cues appears to be a logical method in reconstructing the complex three-dimensional configuration of stem cell niches. In fact, interest in this area has gained significant momentum over the recent years. This review summarizes and evaluates the recent outcomes of studies associated with a scaffold-based approach to directing and understanding stem cell neural and cardiovascular differentiation.
Can microcarrier-expanded chondrocytes synthesize cartilaginous tissue in vitro?	Tissue engineering is a promising approach for articular cartilage repair; however, it is challenging to produce adequate amounts of tissue in vitro from the limited number of cells that can be extracted from an individual. Relatively few cell expansion methods exist without the problems of de-differentiation and/or loss of potency. Recently, however, several studies have noted the benefits of three-dimensional (3D) over monolayer expansion, but the ability of 3D expanded chondrocytes to synthesize cartilaginous tissue constructs has not been demonstrated. Thus, the purpose of this study was to compare the properties of engineered cartilage constructs from expanded cells (monolayer and 3D microcarriers) to those developed from primary chondrocytes. Isolated bovine chondrocytes were grown for 3 weeks in either monolayer (T-Flasks) or 3D microcarrier (Cytodex 3) expansion culture. Expanded and isolated primary cells were then seeded in high density culture on Millicell filters for 4 weeks to evaluate the ability to synthesize cartilaginous tissue. While microcarrier expansion was twice as effective as monolayer expansion (microcarrier: 110-fold increase, monolayer: 52-fold increase), the expanded cells (monolayer and 3D microcarrier) were not effectively able to synthesize cartilaginous tissue in vitro. Tissues developed from primary cells were substantially thicker and accumulated significantly more extracellular matrix (proteoglycan content: 156%-292% increase; collagen content: 70%-191% increase). These results were attributed to phenotypic changes experienced during the expansion phase. Monolayer expanded chondrocytes lost their native morphology within 1 week, whereas microcarrier-expanded cells were spreading by 3 weeks of expansion. While the use of 3D microcarriers can lead to large cellular yields, preservation of chondrogenic phenotype during expansion is required in order to synthesize cartilaginous tissue.
Requirement for serum in medium supplemented with insulin-transferrin-selenium for hydrodynamic cultivation of engineered cartilage.	Achievement of viable engineered tissues through in vitro cultivation in bioreactor systems requires a thorough understanding of the complex interplay between hydrodynamic forces and biochemical cues such as serum. To this end, chondrocyte-seeded constructs were cultured under continuous fluid-induced shear forces with reduced serum content (0%-2%, v/v), which was partially or completely replaced by a potential substitute, insulin-transferrin-selenium, to minimize deleterious effects associated with the use of culture media containing high levels of serum (10%-20%). Low-serum cultures yielded constructs with similar biochemical properties to those cultivated with high-serum supplements, whereas the serum-free constructs exhibited poor cell proliferation, insufficient extracellular matrix production, and rapid degradation of and/or shear-induced damage to polyglycolic acid scaffolds. A fibrous outer capsule typically observed in hydrodynamic cultures and characterized by increased cell density and decreased (virtually none) glycosaminoglycan deposition was eliminated when serum concentration was equal to or <0.2% in the presence of hydrodynamic stimuli. Our findings suggest that serum is a requirement in insulin-transferrin-selenium-supplemented cultures in order for constructs to exhibit improved properties in response to hydrodynamic forces, and that mechanical and biochemical stimuli may synergistically modulate tissue properties and morphology through shear-responsive signals.
Mechanical properties of tissue-engineered vascular constructs produced using arterial or venous cells.	There is a clinical need for better blood vessel substitutes, as current surgical procedures are limited by the availability of suitable autologous vessels and suboptimal behavior of synthetic grafts in small caliber arterial graft (<5 mm) applications. The aim of the present study was to compare the mechanical properties of arterial and venous tissue-engineered vascular constructs produced by the self-assembly approach using cells extracted from either the artery or vein harvested from the same human umbilical cord. The production of a vascular construct comprised of a media and an adventitia (TEVMA) was achieved by rolling a continuous tissue sheet containing both smooth muscle cells and adventitial fibroblasts grown contiguously in the same tissue culture plate. Histology and immunofluorescence staining were used to evaluate the structure and composition of the extracellular matrix of the vascular constructs. The mechanical strength was assessed by uniaxial tensile testing, whereas viscoelastic behavior was evaluated by stepwise stress-relaxation and by cyclic loading hysteresis analysis. Tensile testing showed that the use of arterial cells resulted in stronger and stiffer constructs when compared with those produced using venous cells. Moreover, cyclic loading demonstrated that constructs produced using arterial cells were able to bear higher loads for the same amount of strain when compared with venous constructs. These results indicate that cells isolated from umbilical cord can be used to produce vascular constructs. Arterial constructs possessed superior mechanical properties when compared with venous constructs produced using cells isolated from the same human donor. This study highlights the fact that smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts originating from different cell sources can potentially lead to distinct tissue properties when used in tissue engineering applications.
pH-controlled recovery of placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cell sheets.	Widely used in different biomedical applications, polyelectrolyte multilayers provide inter alia an attractive way for manufacturing of bio-functionalized, stimuli responsive surface coatings to control cellular behavior. In this study a novel polyelectrolyte-based platform for the engineering and controllable detachment of human mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) sheets is presented. Thin films obtained by layer-by-layer deposition of cationic poly(allylamine hydrochloride) (PAH) and anionic poly(styrene sulfonate) (PSS) polyelectrolytes on conductive indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes allowed for the fast formation of viable sheets from human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells (PD-MSCs). Resulting stem cell sheets retained their phenotypical profile and mesodermal differentiation potency. Both electrochemically-induced local pH lowering and global decrease of the environmental pH allowed for a rapid detachment of intact stem cell sheets. The recovered stem cell sheets remained viable and maintained their capacity to differentiate toward the adipogenic and osteogenic lineages. This novel polyelectrolyte multilayer based platform represents a promising, novel approach for the engineering of human stem cell sheets desired for future clinical applications.
Effects of BMP-2 and vitamin D3 on the osteogenic differentiation of adipose stem cells.	We studied the effect of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and vitamin D(3) on the osteogenic differentiation of adipose stem cells (ASCs). ASCs were treated with 10, 50, and 100 ng/ml of BMP-2, and 10(-8), 10(-7), 10(-6)M vitamin D(3). Then, to investigate the effects of combined treatment, ASCs were treated with BMP-2 and vitamin D(3) dose-dependently and time-dependently. The osteogenic differentiation was assessed by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities/staining and the mineralization was evaluated by Alizarin red S staining. ALP activity and mineralization dose-dependently increased in early stages (ALP on 7th day and mineralization on the 14th day) while all three doses of BMP-2 or vitamin D(3) showed comparable effects in late stages (ALP on the 14th day and mineralization on the 21st day) in ASCs. BMP-2 and vitamin D(3) had synergistic effect on the osteogenic differentiation of ASCs. While all three doses of BMP-2 acted similarly in reinforcing the effect of vitamin D(3), vitamin D(3) dose-dependently augmented the osteogenic effect of BMP-2. When BMP-2 was constantly treated, vitamin D(3) effect did not differ depending on the period of vitamin D(3) treatment. However, when vitamin D(3) was constantly treated, the BMP was more effective when treated for the last 7 days than when treated for the first 7 days. In conclusion, BMP-2 and vitamin D(3) promote osteogenic differentiation of ASCs, and can work synergistically. These results can be used to induce effective and economical osteogenic induction of ASCs for bone tissue engineering.
Fabrication of fibrinogen/P(LLA-CL) hybrid nanofibrous scaffold for potential soft tissue engineering applications.	Coelectrospinning of native proteins and elastic synthetic polymers is an attractive technique to fabricate hybrid fibrous scaffolds that combine the bioactivity and mechanical features of each material component. In this study, hybrid fibrous scaffolds composed of synthetic P(LLA-CL) elastomeric and naturally derived fibrinogen protein were fabricated and characterized for their bioactive and physiochemical properties. Fiber diameters of hybrid scaffolds increased with increasing P(LLA-CL) content, and the shape of fibers changed from cylindrical shape on pure polymer scaffolds to flat structure on hybrid scaffolds. Characterizations of ATR-FTIR, XRD, and thermal properties indicated that the hybrid scaffolds contain two different phases, one composed of pure fibrinogen and the other corresponding to a mixture of fibrinogen and P(LLA-CL), and no obvious chemical reaction takes place between two components. The hybrid fibrous scaffolds showed tailorable degradation rates than pure P(LLA-CL) and higher mechanical properties than pure fibrinogen, and both tensile strength and breaking strain increased with increasing P(LLA-CL) content. In Vitro studies revealed that L929 cells on hybrid scaffolds achieved relatively higher level of cell attachment after 12 h of culture and significant increased cell proliferation rate after 7 days of culture, when compared with pure fibrinogen and P(LLA-CL) scaffolds, and the cells exhibited a spreading polygonal shape on the hybrid fibrous surfaces compared to a round shape on surfaces of pure polymer scaffolds. Therefore, the fibrinogen/P(LLA-CL) hybrid fibrous scaffolds possess the combined benefits of each individual component, which make it capable as scaffolds for soft tissue reconstruction.
In vitro functional testing of endothelial progenitor cells that overexpress thrombomodulin.	This study investigated the augmentation of endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) thromboresistance by using gene therapy to overexpress thrombomodulin (TM), an endothelial cell membrane glycoprotein that has potent anti-coagulant properties. Late outgrowth EPCs were isolated from peripheral blood of patients with documented coronary artery disease and transfected with an adenoviral vector containing human TM. EPC transfection conditions for maximizing TM expression, transfection efficiency, and cell viability were employed. TM-overexpressing EPCs had a fivefold increase in the rate of activated protein C production over native EPCs and EPCs transfected with an adenoviral control vector expressing -galactosidase (p<0.05). TM upregulation caused a significant threefold reduction in platelet adhesion compared to native EPCs, and a 12-fold reduction compared to collagen I-coated wells. Additionally, the clotting time of TM-transfected EPCs incubated with whole blood was significantly extended by 19% over native cells (p<0.05). These data indicate that TM-overexpression has the potential to improve the antithrombotic performance of patient-derived EPCs for endothelialization applications.
Nutrient diffusion and simple nth-order consumption in regenerative tissue and biocatalytic sensors.	This contribution addresses intra-tissue molar density profiles for nutrients, oxygen, growth factors, and other essential ingredients that anchorage-dependent cells require for successful proliferation on biocompatible surfaces. One-dimensional transient and steady state models of the reaction-diffusion equation are solved to correct a few deficiencies in the first illustrative example of diffusion and zeroth-order rates of consumption in tissues with rectangular geometry, as discussed in Ref. [(Griffith and Swartz, 2006) 1]. The functional form of the molar density profile for each species depends on geometry and the magnitude of the species-specific intra-tissue Damkhler number. The tissue's central core is reactant starved at high consumption rates and low rates of intra-tissue diffusion when the Damkhler number exceeds its geometry-sensitive critical value. Ideal tissue engineering designs avoid the diffusion-limited regime such that attached cells are exposed to all of the ingredients required for proliferation everywhere within a regenerative matrix. Analytical and numerical molar density profiles that satisfy the unsteady state modified diffusion equation with pseudo-homogeneous n(th)-order rates of intra-tissue consumption (i.e., n=0,1,2) allow one to (i) predict von Krmn-Pohlhausen mass transfer boundary layer thicknesses, measured inward from the external biomaterial surface toward its central core, and, most importantly, (ii) estimate the time required to achieve steady state conditions for regenerative tissue growth and biocatalytic sensing.
Development of bioengineered human larynx.	To date, only two human laryngeal allotransplants have been reported and, although they were successful, both patients required life-long immunosuppression. A bioengineered human larynx could represent a possible alternative to allotransplantation. Human larynxes were decellularized enzymatically to obtain acellular matrices. Histological and molecular analysis demonstrated that all cellular components and nuclear material were removed. SEM showed that decellularized matrices retained the hierarchical structures of the native larynx, and mechanical tests demonstrated that the decellularization did not significantly impaired the biomechanically properties of the obtained matrices. Immunohistochemical staining found residual angiogenic factors after decellularization, and CAM analysis demonstrated that acellular laryngeal scaffolds induce a strong in vivo angiogenic response. Using a decellularization method, we are now able to obtain, in a short and clinically useful time, natural bioengineered laryngeal scaffolds which could be use for partial or total implantation in humans.
Quantification of the forces driving self-assembly of three-dimensional microtissues.	In a nonadhesive environment, cells will self-assemble into microtissues, a process relevant to tissue engineering. Although this has been recognized for some time, there is no basis for quantitative characterization of this complex process. Here we describe a recently developed assay designed to quantify aspects of the process and discuss its application in comparing behaviors between cell types. Cells were seeded in nonadhesive micromolded wells, each well with a circular trough at its base formed by the cylindrical sidewalls and by a central peg in the form of a right circular cone. Cells settled into the trough and coalesced into a toroid, which was then driven up the conical peg by the forces of self-assembly. The mass of the toroid and its rate of upward movement were used to calculate the cell power expended in the process against gravity. The power of the toroid was found to be 0.31  0.01 pJ/h and 4.3  1.7 pJ/h for hepatocyte cells and fibroblasts, respectively. Blocking Rho kinase by means of Y-27632 resulted in a 50% and greater reduction in power expended by each type of toroid, indicating that cytoskeletal-mediated contraction plays a significant role in the self-assembly of both cell types. Whereas the driving force for self-assembly has often been viewed as the binding of surface proteins, these data show that cellular contraction is important for cell-cell adhesion. The power measurement quantifies the contribution of cell contraction, and will be useful for understanding the concerted action of the mechanisms that drive self-assembly.
A simple and high production rate manufacturing method for submicron polymer fibres.	The manufacturing technique for cotton-candy floss, heat-aided rotary jet-spinning, was used to produce submicron-scale fibrous meshes by using bioabsorbable thermoplastic polymers. The method was feasible for 100 wt% polymer concentrations functioning completely without solvents. It was possible to produce submicron diameter fibres using a simple device, which indicates that this manufacturing method is a very promising technique for obtaining high-throughput rates for submicron, and possibly nano-scale, fibrous meshes.
A simple cell patterning method using magnetic particle-containing photosensitive poly (ethylene glycol) hydrogel blocks: a technical note.	All human organs consist of multiple types of cells organized in a complex pattern to meet specific functional needs. One possible approach for reconstructing human organs in vitro is to generate cell sheets of a specific pattern and later stack them systematically by layer into a three-dimensional organoid. However, many commonly used cell patterning techniques suffer drawbacks such as dependence on sophisticated instruments and manipulation of cells under suboptimal growth conditions. Here, we describe a simple cell patterning method that may overcome these problems. This method is based on magnetic force and photoresponsive poly (ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEG-DA) hydrogels. The PEG-DA hydrogel was magnetized by mixing with iron ferrous microparticles and then fabricated into blocks with a specific pattern by photolithography. The resolution of the hydrogel empty space pattern was approximately 150 m and the generated hydrogel blocks can be remotely manipulated with a magnet. The magnetic PEG-DA blocks were used as a stencil to define the area for cell adhesion in the cell culture dish, and the second types of cells could be seeded after the magnetic block was removed to create heterotypic cell patterns. Cell viability assay has demonstrated that magnetic PEG-DA and the patterning process produced negligible effects on cell growth. Together, our results indicate that this magnetic hydrogel-based cell patterning method is simple to perform and is a useful tool for tissue surrogate assembly for disease mechanism study and drug screening.
Electrospun chitosan-graft-poly (-caprolactone)/poly (-caprolactone) nanofibrous scaffolds for retinal tissue engineering.	A promising therapy for retinal diseases is to employ biodegradable scaffolds to deliver retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) for repairing damaged or diseased retinal tissue. In the present study, cationic chitosan-graft-poly(-caprolactone)/polycaprolactone (CS-PCL/PCL) hybrid scaffolds were successfully prepared by electrospinning. Characterization of the obtained nanofibrous scaffolds indicated that zeta-potential, fiber diameter, and the content of amino groups on their surface were closely correlated with the amount of CS-PCL in CS-PCL/PCL scaffolds. To assess the cell-scaffold interaction, mice RPCs (mRPCs) were cultured on the electrospun scaffolds for 7 days. In-vitro proliferation assays revealed that mRPCs proliferated faster on the CS-PCL/PCL (20/80) scaffolds than the other electrospun scaffolds. Scanning electron microscopy and the real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction results showed that mRPCs grown on CS-PCL/PCL (20/80) scaffolds were more likely to differentiate towards retinal neurons than those on PCL scaffolds. Taken together, these results suggest that CS-PCL/PCL(20/80) scaffolds have potential application in retinal tissue engineering.
Biomaterial-mediated delivery of microenvironmental cues for repair and regeneration of articular cartilage.	Articular cartilage injuries are one of the most challenging problems in musculoskeletal medicine due to the poor intrinsic regenerative capacity of this tissue. The lack of efficient treatment modalities motivates research into tissue engineering: combining cells, biomaterials mimicking extracellular matrix (scaffolds) and microenvironmental signaling cues. The aim of this review is to focus on the use of biomaterials as delivery systems for microenvironmental cues in relation to their applications for treatment of cartilage defects. The latest advances in cartilage tissue engineering and regeneration are critically reviewed to demonstrate an outline of challenges toward biomaterial-based approaches of cartilage regeneration.
Using simulated clinical scenarios to evaluate student performance.	Given the high financial investment that nursing education programs make to incorporate high-fidelity simulation training, it is important to evaluate its usefulness in student learning and evaluation. Faculty developed an evaluation tool for simulated clinical scenarios, using both high- and low-fidelity modalities that delineated components and their relative weights, adapted to match the changing expectations for evolving novices. The authors discuss scoring, debriefing, and remediation.
Characterization of urine-derived stem cells obtained from upper urinary tract for use in cell-based urological tissue engineering.	The goals of this study were to characterize urine-derived stem cells obtained from the upper urinary tract (uUSC), induce these cells to differentiate into urothelial and smooth muscle cells, and determine whether they could serve as a potential stem cell source for bladder tissue engineering.
Distinct tissue formation by heterogeneous printing of osteo- and endothelial progenitor cells.	The organ- or tissue-printing approach, based on layered deposition of cell-laden hydrogels, is a new technique in regenerative medicine suitable to investigate whether mimicking the anatomical organization of cells, matrix, and bioactive molecules is necessary for obtaining or improving functional engineered tissues. Currently, data on performance of multicellular printed constructs in vivo are limited. In this study we illustrate the ability of the system to print intricate porous constructs containing two different cell types--endothelial progenitors and multipotent stromal cells--and show that these grafts retain heterogeneous cell organization after subcutaneous implantation in immunodeficient mice. We demonstrate that cell differentiation leading to the expected tissue formation occurs at the site of the deposited progenitor cell type. While perfused blood vessels are formed in the endothelial progenitor cell-laden part of the constructs, bone formation is taking place in the multipotent stromal cell-laden part of the printed grafts.
Type 2 helper T-cell cytokines induce morphologic and molecular characteristics of atopic dermatitis in human skin equivalent.	Both the immune system and the epidermis likely have an important role in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). The objective of the present study was to develop a human skin equivalent model exhibiting morphologic and molecular characteristics of AD in a controlled manner. Skin equivalents generated from normal adult human keratinocytes were stimulated with type 2 T-helper cell (Th2) cytokines IL-4 and IL-13, and morphologic features and gene expression of the epidermis were studied. Th2 cytokines induced intercellular edema similar to spongiotic changes observed in lesional AD as assessed at histopathologic analysis and electron microscopy. Furthermore, genes known to be specifically expressed in epidermis of patients with AD such as CAII and NELL2 were induced. In contrast, expression of psoriasis-associated genes such as elafin and hBD2 was not changed. Th2 cytokines caused DNA fragmentation in the keratinocytes, which could be inhibited by the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD, which suggests that apoptosis was induced. In addition, up-regulation of the death receptor Fas was observed in keratinocytes after Th2 cytokine stimulation. IL-4 and IL-13 induced phosphorylation of the signaling molecule STAT6. It was concluded that the skin equivalent model described herein may be useful in investigation of the epidermal aspects of AD and for study of drugs that act at the level of keratinocyte biology.
Viable cryopreserving tissue-engineered cell-biomaterial for cell banking therapy in an effective cryoprotectant.	The application of cell-biomaterial systems in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine is an important challenge in biomedicine, which preserves not only cells, but also tissue-engineered constructs. In this study, the constructs and cryoprotectant parameters were optimized, and it was evaluated whether the characteristics of dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs), which have high proliferation ability as stem cells, were maintained during encapsulation and cryopreservation. The optimal cell-biomaterial gel constructs with the gelation rate of 2% alginate: 100 mM CaCO(3): 200 mM glucono--lactone (GDL)=4:1:1 and suitable cryoprotectants (CPAs) used for cryopreservation were Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% ethylene glycol (EG), 1.0 M sucrose and 0.00075 M polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). Optimality was confirmed by cell viability (trypan blue, live/dead analysis), the proliferation of DPSCs, and the microstructure using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in the constructs, and surface epitope by flow cytometric analysis before and after cryopreservation. There were no visible differences in the structure. In conclusion, this study indicates that the optimal cell-biomaterial gel constructs and the cryoprotectant are promising biomaterials. The defined encapsulation/thawing system offers an excellent option for cell-banking therapy to be developed with ready-to-use viable biomaterials and patient-specific products as drug delivery systems.
Dental pulp tissue engineering.	Dental pulp is a highly specialized mesenchymal tissue that has a limited regeneration capacity due to anatomical arrangement and post-mitotic nature of odontoblastic cells. Entire pulp amputation followed by pulp space disinfection and filling with an artificial material cause loss of a significant amount of dentin leaving as life-lasting sequelae a non-vital and weakened tooth. However, regenerative endodontics is an emerging field of modern tissue engineering that has demonstrated promising results using stem cells associated with scaffolds and responsive molecules. Thereby, this article reviews the most recent endeavors to regenerate pulp tissue based on tissue engineering principles and provides insightful information to readers about the different aspects involved in tissue engineering. Here, we speculate that the search for the ideal combination of cells, scaffolds, and morphogenic factors for dental pulp tissue engineering may be extended over future years and result in significant advances in other areas of dental and craniofacial research. The findings collected in this literature review show that we are now at a stage in which engineering a complex tissue, such as the dental pulp, is no longer an unachievable goal and the next decade will certainly be an exciting time for dental and craniofacial research.
Regenerative endodontics: a state of the art.	Scientific advances in the creation of restorative biomaterials, in vitro cell culture technology, tissue grafting, tissue engineering, molecular biology and the human genome project provide the basis for the introduction of new technologies into dentistry. Non-vital infected teeth have long been treated with root canal therapy (for mature root apex) and apexification (for immature root apex), or doomed to extraction. Although successful, current treatments fail to re-establish healthy pulp tissue in these teeth. But, what if the non-vital tooth could be made vital once again? That is the hope offered by regenerative endodontics, an emerging field focused on replacing traumatized and diseased pulp with functional pulp tissue. Restoration of vitality of non-vital tooth is based on tissue engineering and revascularization procedures. The purpose of this article is to review these biological procedures and the hurdles that must be overcome to develop regenerative endodontic procedures.
Stem cell therapy: a challenge to periodontist.	Periodontitis is an inflammatory disease which manifests clinically as loss of supporting periodontal tissues including periodontal ligament, cementum, and alveolar bone, and periodontal therapy is aimed at achieving complete regeneration of these structures. To date, this goal has been tried to accomplish using various bone grafts, growth factors, and barrier membranes. Stem cells are the most fascinating area of biology today and have been used clinically in the field of medicine to treat many incurable diseases. Various human and animal studies have confirmed the presence of stem cells in dental tissues including periodontal ligament. This has opened new avenues aiming toward complete periodontal regeneration using cell-based therapies. This review provides an overview of various types of stem cells in medicine and dentistry and their potential uses especially pertaining to periodontal regeneration.
Controlled activation of morphogenesis to generate a functional human microvasculature in a synthetic matrix.	Understanding the role of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in vascular morphogenesis has been possible using natural ECMs as in vitro models to study the underlying molecular mechanisms. However, little is known about vascular morphogenesis in synthetic matrices where properties can be tuned toward both the basic understanding of tubulogenesis in modular environments and as a clinically relevant alternative to natural materials for regenerative medicine. We investigated synthetic, tunable hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels and determined both the adhesion and degradation parameters that enable human endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFCs) to form efficient vascular networks. Entrapped ECFCs underwent tubulogenesis dependent on the cellular interactions with the HA hydrogel during each stage of vascular morphogenesis. Vacuole and lumen formed through integrins (5)(1) and (V)(3), while branching and sprouting were enabled by HA hydrogel degradation. Vascular networks formed within HA hydrogels containing ECFCs anastomosed with the host's circulation and supported blood flow in the hydrogel after transplantation. Collectively, we show that the signaling pathways of vascular morphogenesis of ECFCs can be precisely regulated in a synthetic matrix, resulting in a functional microvasculature useful for the study of 3-dimensional vascular biology and toward a range of vascular disorders and approaches in tissue regeneration.
Flexor tendon tissue engineering: acellularization of human flexor tendons with preservation of biomechanical properties and biocompatibility.	Acellular human tendons are a candidate scaffold for tissue engineering flexor tendons of the hand. This study compared acellularization methods and their compatibility with allogeneic human cells.
Endothelialized biomaterials for tissue engineering applications in vivo.	Rebuilding tissues involves the creation of a vasculature to supply nutrients and this in turn means that the endothelial cells (ECs) of the resulting endothelium must be a quiescent non-thrombogenic blood contacting surface. Such ECs are deployed on biomaterials that are composed of natural materials such as extracellular matrix proteins or synthetic polymers in the form of vascular grafts or tissue-engineered constructs. Because EC function is influenced by their origin, biomaterial surface chemistry and hemodynamics, these issues must be considered to optimize implant performance. In this review, we examine the recent in vivo use of endothelialized biomaterials and discuss the fundamental issues that must be considered when engineering functional vasculature.
Induction of functional hepatocyte-like cells from mouse fibroblasts by defined factors.	The generation of functional hepatocytes independent of donor liver organs is of great therapeutic interest with regard to regenerative medicine and possible cures for liver disease. Induced hepatic differentiation has been achieved previously using embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells. Particularly, hepatocytes generated from a patient's own induced pluripotent stem cells could theoretically avoid immunological rejection. However, the induction of hepatocytes from induced pluripotent stem cells is a complicated process that would probably be replaced with the arrival of improved technology. Overexpression of lineage-specific transcription factors directly converts terminally differentiated cells into some other lineages, including neurons, cardiomyocytes and blood progenitors; however, it remains unclear whether these lineage-converted cells could repair damaged tissues in vivo. Here we demonstrate the direct induction of functional hepatocyte-like (iHep) cells from mouse tail-tip fibroblasts by transduction of Gata4, Hnf1 and Foxa3, and inactivation of p19(Arf). iHep cells show typical epithelial morphology, express hepatic genes and acquire hepatocyte functions. Notably, transplanted iHep cells repopulate the livers of fumarylacetoacetate-hydrolase-deficient (Fah(-/-)) mice and rescue almost half of recipients from death by restoring liver functions. Our study provides a novel strategy to generate functional hepatocyte-like cells for the purpose of liver engineering and regenerative medicine.
Organ-specific scaffolds for in vitro expansion, differentiation, and organization of primary lung cells.	In light of the increasing need for differentiated primary cells for cell therapy and the rapid dedifferentiation occurring during standard in vitro cultivation techniques, there is an urgent need for developing three-dimensional in vitro systems in which expanded cells display in vivo-like differentiated phenotypes. It is becoming clear that the natural microenvironment provides the optimal conditions for achieving this aim. To this end, we prepared natural decellularized scaffolds of microscopic dimensions that would allow appropriate diffusion of gases and nutrients to all seeded cells. Scaffolds from either the lung or the liver were analyzed for their ability to support growth and differentiation of progenitor alveolar cells and hepatocytes. We observed that progenitor alveolar cells that have been expanded on plastic culture and thus dedifferentiated grew within the lung-derived scaffolds into highly organized structures and regained differentiation markers classical for type I and type II alveolar cells. The cells generated proper alveolar structures, and only 15%-30% of them secreted surfactant proteins in a localized manner for extended periods. Vice versa, liver-derived scaffolds supported the differentiation state of primary hepatocytes. We further demonstrate that the natural scaffolds are organ specific, that is, only cells derived from the same organ become properly differentiated. A proteomic analysis shows significant different composition of lung and liver scaffolds, for example, decorin, thrombospondin 1, vimentin, and various laminin isoforms are especially enriched in the lung. Altogether, our data demonstrate that complex interactions between the seeded cells and a highly organized, organ-specific stroma are required for proper localized cell differentiation. Thus, our novel in vitro culture system can be used for ex vivo differentiation and organization of expanded primary cells.
In vitro and in vivo characterization of nonbiomedical- and biomedical-grade alginates for articular chondrocyte transplantation.	Alginate is a key hydrogel for cartilage tissue engineering. Here, we systematically evaluated four biomedical- and two nonbiomedical-grade alginates for their capacity to support the in vitro culture and in vivo transplantation of articular chondrocytes. Chondrocytes in all ultrapure alginates maintained high cell viability. Spheres composed of biomedical-grade, low-viscosity, high-mannuronic acid content alginate showed the lowest decrease in size over time. Biomedical-grade, low-viscosity, high-guluronic acid content alginate allowed for optimal cell proliferation. Biomedical-grade, medium-viscosity, high-mannuronic acid content alginate promoted the highest production of proteoglycans. When transplanted into osteochondral defects in the knee joint of sheep in vivo, empty spheres were progressively surrounded by a granulation tissue. In marked contrast with these observations, all alginate spheres carrying allogeneic chondrocytes were gradually invaded by a granulation tissue containing multinucleated giant cells, lymphocytes, and fibroblasts, regardless whether they were based on biomedical- or nonbiomedical-grade alginates. After 21 days in vivo, transplanted chondrocytes were either viable or underwent necrosis, and apoptosis played a minor role in their early fate. The individual characteristics of these alginates may be valuable to tailor specific experimental and clinical strategies for cartilage tissue engineering.
Supercritical carbon dioxide processed resorbable polymer nanocomposite bone graft substitutes.	The development of synthetic bone graft substitutes is an intense area of research due to the complications associated with the harvest of autogenous bone and concerns about the supply of allogenic bone. Porous resorbable polymers have been used extensively in hard tissue engineering applications, but currently lack load-bearing capacity. Supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO(2)) processing is used as a novel method to simultaneously impart a porous structure and disperse a nano-clay in a resorbable polymer matrix suitable for load-bearing applications. Porous resorbable polylactic acid (PLA)/cloisite clay nanocomposite constructs prepared using scCO(2) processing exhibit a 2.5-fold increase in compressive strength compared with pure polymer constructs. The resulting mechanical properties are comparable with human cancellous and cortico-cancellous bone. In addition to the significant improvements in mechanical properties, the nanocomposite constructs display a biocompatibility greater than that of polystyrene culture plate controls. Furthermore, calcium phosphate-rich deposits could clearly be seen on the surface of the constructs, as well as at the center of the cultured constructs, indicating that osteoblasts are able to penetrate the porous network of the nanocomposite constructs. Cellular infiltration of these constructs is important for their in vivo use as bone graft substitutes. The diameter of the pores suggests that these constructs would also support neovascularization, which is integral for nutrient transport.
Three-dimensional biodegradable microscaffolding: scaffold characterization and cell population at single cell resolution.	Engineering artificial tissue scaffolds with a similar organization to that of the natural tissue is a key element to the successful recapitulation of function. However, three-dimensional (3-D) fabrication of tissue scaffolds containing complex microarchitectures still remains a challenge. In addition, little attention has been paid to the issue of how to incorporate cells within 3-D tissue scaffolds that contain precisely engineered architectures. Here we report a 3-D biodegradable microscaffolding (3D-BMS) technology and its process characterization as well as a microscale cellular loading technology as an efficient way to massively populate biodegradable polymers with cells at single cell resolution. In this study a particular emphasis was given to characterization of the material properties of the biodegradable polymers undergoing the 3D-BMS processes. Optimal process conditions were identified in order to avoid any unwanted change in material properties, such as crystallinity and scaffold strength, that have a direct impact on the degradation speed and physical integrity of the constructed scaffolds. For precise control of the cell distribution within the microstructured scaffolds a high precision microsieve structure was designed to localize rat hepatocytes and human articular chondrocytes in the biodegradable polymers. Cell suspensions were passed at a predetermined flow rate through biodegradable polymer layers that contained tapered microholes in a massively parallel process. This high resolution cell seeding method allows accurate manipulation of cell placement in thin layers of biodegradable polymers.
Uniform cell colonization of porous 3-D scaffolds achieved using radial control of surface chemistry.	Uniform cellular distribution is a prerequisite to forming tissue within porous scaffolds, but the seeding process often results in preferential adhesion of cells at the periphery. We develop a vapour phase coating strategy which is readily applicable to any porous solid to provide a uniform cellular distribution. Plasma polymerized allyl amine (ppAAm) is used to form a thin nitrogen-containing coating throughout porous three-dimensional (3-D) poly(d,l-lactic acid) scaffolds. Subsequent controlled deposition of a hydrocarbon plasma polymerized hexane (ppHex) allows control of the fibroblast penetration into these porous 3-D objects. In order to optimize the coating conditions, a planar pinhole model of plasma penetration into pores is developed to rapidly measure deposit penetration using picolitre water contact angle measurement. Sufficiently good control over the plasma deposition within the porous scaffold is achieved using this approach to superimpose a relatively cell-repellent ppHex coating at the scaffold periphery onto the ppAAm-coated core, with a chemical gradient between the two. This 3-D chemical gradient encourages 3T3 fibroblast cells to adhere homogeneously from the periphery to the centre, when balanced by the tortuousity of the pore structure, which cells experience when passing from the surrounding medium to the centre.
The realistic prediction of oxygen transport in a tissue-engineered scaffold by introducing time-varying effective diffusion coefficients.	An adequate oxygen supply is one of the most important factors needed in order to regenerate or engineer thick tissues or complex organs. To devise a method for maximizing the amount of oxygen available to cells, it is necessary to understand and to realistically predict oxygen transport within an engineered tissue. In this study, we focused on the fact that oxygen transport through a tissue-engineered scaffold may vary with time as cells proliferate. To confirm this viewpoint, effective oxygen diffusion coefficients (D(e)(,)(s)) of scaffolds were deduced from experimental measurements and simulations of oxygen-concentration profiles were performed using these D(e)(,)(s) values in a two-dimensional (2-D) perfusion model. The results of this study indicate that higher porosity, hydraulic permeability and interconnectivity of scaffolds with no cells are responsible for the prominent diffusion capability quantified using D(e)(,)(s). On the other hand, the D(e)(,)(s) of scaffolds with cells has a negative linear relationship with cell density. Cell proliferation with time leads to a significant decrease in oxygen concentration in the 2-D perfusion model. This result demonstrates the gradual restriction of oxygen transport in a porous scaffold during cell culture. Therefore, the realistic prediction of oxygen transport using a time-varying D(e)(,)(s) will provide an appropriate basis for designing optimal transport networks within a thick scaffold.
Oligo(trimethylene carbonate)-poly(ethylene glycol)-oligo(trimethylene carbonate) triblock-based hydrogels for cartilage tissue engineering.	A triblock co-polymer of oligo(trimethylene carbonate)-block-poly(ethylene glycol) 20000-block-oligo(trimethylene carbonate) diacrylate (TMC20) was used as a photo-polymerizable precursor for the encapsulation of primary articular chondrocytes. The efficacy of TMC20 as a biodegradable scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering was compared with non-degradable poly(ethylene glycol) 20000 diacrylate (PEG20) hydrogel. Chondrocytes encapsulated in PEG hydrogels containing oligo(trimethylene carbonate) (OTMC) moieties underwent spontaneous aggregation during in vitro culture, which was not observed in the PEG hydrogel counterparts. The aggregation of cells was found to be dependent on the initial cell density, as well as the mesh size of the hydrogels. Similarly, cell aggregation was also found in biodegradable PEG hydrogels containing caprolactone moieties. The aggregation of cells in TMC20 hydrogels resulted in enhanced cartilage matrix production compared with their PEG20 counterparts over 3 weeks of culture. Taken together, these results indicate that PEG hydrogels containing degradable OTMC moieties promote the aggregation and biosynthetic activity of encapsulated chondrocytes, indicating their potential as scaffolds for the repair of cartilage tissue.
Modulation of alignment, elongation and contraction of cardiomyocytes through a combination of nanotopography and rigidity of substrates.	The topographic and mechanical characteristics of engineered tissue constructs, simulating native tissues, should benefit tissue engineering. Previous studies reported that surface topography and substrate rigidity provide biomechanical cues to modulate cellular responses such as alignment, migration and differentiation. To fully address this issue, the present study aimed to examine the influence of nanogrooved substrates with different stiffnesses on the responses of rat cardiomyocytes. Nanogrooved substrates (450nm in groove/ridge width; 100 or 350nm in depth) made of polystyrene and polyurethane were prepared by imprinting from polydimethylsiloxane molds. The morphology and orientation of cardiomyocytes attached to the substrates were found to be influenced mainly by the nanogrooved structures, while the contractile function of the cells was regulated by the coupled effect of surface topography and substrate stiffness. The distribution of intracellular structural proteins such as vinculin and F-actin showed that the surface topography and substrate stiffness regulated the organization of the actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesion complexes, and consequently the contractile behavior of the cardiomyocytes. The beating rates of the cultured cardiomyocytes were dependent on both the surface topography and the substrate stiffness. The study provides insights into the interaction between cardiomyocytes and biomaterials, and benefits cardiac tissue engineering.
Dynamic mechanical stimulations induce anisotropy and improve the tensile properties of engineered tissues produced without exogenous scaffolding.	Mechanical strength and the production of extracellular matrix (ECM) are essential characteristics for engineered tissues designed to repair and replace connective tissues that are subject to stress and strain. In this study, dynamic mechanical stimulation (DMS) was investigated as a method to improve the mechanical properties of engineered tissues produced without the use of an exogenous scaffold, referred to as the self-assembly approach. This method, based exclusively on the use of human cells without any exogenous scaffolding, allows for the production of a tissue sheet comprised of cells and ECM components synthesized by dermal fibroblasts in vitro. A bioreactor chamber was designed to apply cyclic strain to engineered tissues in order to determine if dynamic culture had an impact on their mechanical properties and ECM organization. Fibroblasts were cultured in the presence of ascorbic acid for 35 days to promote ECM production and allow the formation of a tissue sheet. This sheet was grown on a custom-built anchoring system allowing for easy manipulation and fixation of the tissue in the bioreactor. Following the 35 day period, tissues were maintained for 3 days in static culture (SC), or subjected either to a static mechanical stimulation of 10% strain, or a dynamic DMS with a duty cycle of 10% uniaxial cyclic strain at 1Hz. ECM was characterized by histology, immunofluorescence labeling and Western blotting. Both static and dynamic mechanical stimulation induced the alignment of assessed cytoskeletal proteins and ECM components parallel to the axis of applied strain and increased the ECM content of the tissues compared to SC. Measurement of the tensile mechanical properties revealed that mechanical stimulation significantly increases both the ultimate tensile strength and tensile modulus of the engineered tissues when compared to the non-stimulated control. Moreover, we demonstrated that cyclic strain significantly increases these parameters when compared to a static-loading stimulation and that mechanical stimulation contributes to the establishment of anisotropy in the structural and mechanical properties of self-assembled tissue sheets.
Development of mesenchymal stem cell-implant complexes by cultured cells sheet enhances osseointegration in type 2 diabetic rat model.	This study investigated the hypothesis that a mesenchymal stem cells (MSC)-implant complex could be used in type 2 diabetic rats. Diabetes was modeled with type 2 diabetic rats induced by high fat diet with low dose streptozotocin (STZ) injected intraperitoneally. MSC sheets were harvested from culture flasks, wrapped around implants to construct the complexes, and then cultured in an osteogenic medium. The layered cell sheets integrated well with the implants and remained viable, with small mineralized nodules visible on the implant surfaces after culturing. The MSC-implant complexes were inserted into the right tibiae of the diabetic rats. Titanium implants served as controls. After four and eight weeks of healing, the tibiae were observed via MicroCT and harvested for histological examination. For the MSC-implant complexes, MicroCT analysis showed that bone volume ratio and trabecular thickness increased significantly (p<0.05), and trabecular separation decreased significantly (p<0.05) compared to the titanium implants in diabetic rats. Histological examination revealed a greater amount of new bone tissue forming around the MSC-implant complexes and a higher bone implant contact (BIC) rate than the titanium implants. These findings demonstrate that MSC-implant complexes possess osteogenic abilities and can be used in diabetic rats to improve the BIC rate. Thus, MSC-implant complexes provide a novel tissue engineering approach that promotes osseous healing and may potentially be useful in the treatment of diabetic patients.
Regeneration and repair of tendon and ligament tissue using collagen fibre biomaterials.	Collagen fibres are ubiquitous macromolecular assemblies in nature, providing the structures that support tensile mechanical loads within the human body. Aligned type I collagen fibres are the primary structural motif for tendon and ligament, and therefore biomaterials based on these structures are considered promising candidates for mediating regeneration of these tissues. However, despite considerable investigation, there remains no collagen-fibre-based biomaterial that has undergone clinical evaluation for this application. Recent research in this area has significantly enhanced our understanding of these complex and challenging biomaterials, and is reinvigorating interest in the development of such structures to recapitulate mechanical function. In this review we describe the progress to date towards a ligament or tendon regeneration template based on collagen fibre scaffolds. We highlight reports of particular relevance to the development of the underlying biomaterials science in this area. In addition, the potential for tailoring and manipulating the interactions between collagen fibres and biological systems, as hybrid biomaterial-biological ensembles, is discussed in the context of developing novel tissue engineering strategies for tendon and ligament.
Prediction of spatio-temporal bone formation in scaffold by diffusion equation.	Developing a successful bone tissue engineering strategy entails translation of experimental findings to clinical needs. A major leap forward toward this goal is developing a quantitative tool to predict spatial and temporal bone formation in scaffold. We hypothesized that bone formation in scaffold follows diffusion phenomenon. Subsequently, we developed an analytical formulation for bone formation, which had only three unknown parameters: C, the final bone volume fraction, , the so-called scaffold osteoconduction coefficient, and h, the so-called peri-scaffold osteoinduction coefficient. The three parameters were estimated by identifying the model within vivo data of polymeric scaffolds implanted in the femoral condyle of rats. In vivo data were obtained by longitudinal micro-CT scanning of the animals. Having identified the three parameters, we used the model to predict the course of bone formation in two previously published in vivo studies. We found the predicted values to be consistent with the experimental ones. Bone formation into a scaffold can then adequately be described through diffusion phenomenon. This model allowed us to spatially and temporally predict the outcome of tissue engineering scaffolds with only 3 physically relevant parameters.
The role of engineered tendon matrix in the stemness of tendon stem cells in vitro and the promotion of tendon-like tissue formation in vivo.	When injured, tendons tend to heal but with poor structure and compromised function. Tissue engineering is a promising approach to enhancing the quality of healing tendons. Our group and others have identified tendon stem cells (TSCs), a type of tendon-specific stem cells which may be optimal for cellular interventions seeking to restore normal structure and function to injured tendons. However, in vitro expanding of TSCs on regular plastic cell culture dishes only yields a limited number of TSCs before they lose the stemness, i.e., the self-renewal capability and multipotency. In this study, we developed a substrate material for TSCs, engineered tendon matrix (ETM) from decellularized tendon tissues. We showed that ETM in vitro was able to stimulate TSC proliferation and better preserve the stemness of TSCs than plastic culture surfaces. In vivo, implantation of ETM-TSC composite promoted tendon-like tissue formation whereas implantation of TSCs alone led to little such tissue formation. Together, the findings of this study indicate that ETM may be used to effectively expand TSCs in vitro and with TSCs, to enhance repair of injured tendons in vivo.
Integration of hollow fiber membranes improves nutrient supply in three-dimensional tissue constructs.	Sufficient nutrient and oxygen transport is a potent modulator of cell proliferation in in vitro tissue-engineered constructs. The lack of oxygen and culture medium can create a potentially lethal environment and limit cellular metabolic activity and growth. Diffusion through scaffold and multi-cellular tissue typically limits transport in vitro, leading to potential hypoxic regions and reduction in the viable tissue thickness. For the in vitro generation of clinically relevant tissue-engineered grafts, current nutrient diffusion limitations should be addressed. Major approaches to overcoming these include culture with bioreactors, scaffolds with artificial microvasculature, oxygen carriers and pre-vascularization of the engineered tissues. This study focuses on the development and utilization of a new perfusion culture system to provide adequate nutrient delivery to cells within large three-dimensional (3D) scaffolds. Perfusion of oxygenated culture medium through porous hollow fiber (HF) integrated within 3D free form fabricated (FFF) scaffolds is proposed. Mouse pre-myoblast (C2C12) cells cultured on scaffolds of poly(ethylene-oxide-terephthalate)-poly(butylene-terephthalate) block copolymer (300PEOT55PBT45) integrated with porous HF membranes of modified poly(ether-sulfone) (mPES, Gambro GmbH) is used as a model system. Various parameters such as fiber transport properties, fiber spacing within a scaffold and medium flow conditions are optimized. The results show that four HF membranes integrated with the scaffold significantly improve the cell density and cell distribution. This study provides a basis for the development of a new HF perfusion culture methodology to overcome the limitations of nutrient diffusion in the culture of large 3D tissue constructs.
Irreversible optical clearing of rabbit dermis for autogenic corneal stroma transplantation.	Tissue engineering and transplantation of autogenic grafts have been widely investigated for solving problems on current allograft treatments (i.g., donor shortage and rejection). However, it is difficult to obtain an autogenic corneal stromal replacement that is composed of transparent, tough, and thick collagen constructs by current cell culture-based tissue engineering. Aim of this study is to develop transparent dermis for an autogenic corneal stroma transplantation. This study examined dehydration at 4-8C and carbodiimide cross-linking on cloudy rabbit dermis (approx. 1.8%-3.8% light transmittance at 550 nm) for dermis optical clearing. Transparency of dehydrated rabbit dermis was founded to be approx. 37.9%-41.4% at 550 nm. Additional cross-linking treatment on dehydrated dermis prevented from swelling and clouding in saline, and improved its transparency to be 56.9% at 550 nm. Rabbit corneal epithelium was found to regenerate on optically cleared dermis in vitro. Furthermore, no abnormal biological response (i.e., inflammation, vascularization, and the barrier defect of epithelia) or no optical functional change on optically cleared dermis was observed during its 4-week autogenic transplantation into rabbit corneal stromal pocket.
Engineering articular cartilage with spatially-varying matrix composition and mechanical properties from a single stem cell population using a multi-layered hydrogel.	Despite significant advances in stem cell differentiation and tissue engineering, directing progenitor cells into three-dimensionally (3D) organized, native-like complex structures with spatially-varying mechanical properties and extra-cellular matrix (ECM) composition has not yet been achieved. The key innovations needed to achieve this would involve methods for directing a single stem cell population into multiple, spatially distinct phenotypes or lineages within a 3D scaffold structure. We have previously shown that specific combinations of natural and synthetic biomaterials can direct marrow-derived stem cells (MSC) into varying phenotypes of chondrocytes that resemble cells from the superficial, transitional, and deep zones of articular cartilage. In this current study, we demonstrate that layer-by-layer organization of these specific biomaterial compositions creates 3D niches that allow a single MSC population to differentiate into zone-specific chondrocytes and organize into a complex tissue structure. Our results indicate that a three-layer polyethylene glycol (PEG)-based hydrogel with chondroitin sulfate (CS) and matrix metalloproteinase-sensitive peptides (MMP-pep) incorporated into the top layer (superficial zone, PEG:CS:MMP-pep), CS incorporated into the middle layer (transitional zone, PEG:CS) and hyaluronic acid incorporated in the bottom layer (deep zone, PEG:HA), creates native-like articular cartilage with spatially-varying mechanical and biochemical properties. Specifically, collagen II levels decreased gradually from the superficial to the deep zone, while collagen X and proteoglycan levels increased, leading to an increasing gradient of compressive modulus from the superficial to the deep zone. We conclude that spatially-varying biomaterial compositions within single 3D scaffolds can stimulate efficient regeneration of multi-layered complex tissues from a single stem cell population.
A highly organized three-dimensional alginate scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering prepared by microfluidic technology.	Osteoarthritis is a degenerative disease and frequently involves the knee, hip and phalangeal joints. Current treatments used in small cartilage defects including multiple drilling, abrasion arthroplasty, mosaicplasty, and autogenous chondrocyte transplantation, however, there are problems needed to be solved. The standard treatment for severe osteoarthritis is total joint arthroplasty. The disadvantages of this surgery are the possibility of implant loosening. Therefore, tissue engineering for cartilage regeneration has become a promising topic. We have developed a new method to produce a highly organized single polymer (alginate) scaffold using microfluidic device. Scanning electron microscope and confocal fluoroscope examinations showed that the scaffold has a regular interconnected porous structure in the scale of 250 m and high porosity. The scaffold is effective in chondrocyte culture; the cell viability test (WST-1 assay), cell toxicity (lactate dehydrogenase assay), cell survival rate, extracellular matrix production (glycosaminoglycans contents), cell proliferation (DNA quantification), and gene expression (real-time PCR) all revealed good results for chondrocyte culture. The chondrocytes can maintain normal phenotypes, highly express aggrecan and type II collagen, and secrete a great deal of extracellular matrix when seeded in the alginate scaffold. This study demonstrated that a highly organized alginate scaffold can be prepared with an economical microfluidic device, and this scaffold is effective in cartilage tissue engineering.
Colonization of collagen scaffolds by adipocytes derived from mesenchymal stem cells of the common marmoset monkey.	In regenerative medicine, human cell replacement therapy offers great potential, especially by cell types differentiated from immunologically and ethically unproblematic mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). In terms of an appropriate carrier material, collagen scaffolds with homogeneous pore size of 65m were optimal for cell seeding and cultivating. However, before clinical application and transplantation of MSC-derived cells in scaffolds, the safety and efficiency, but also possible interference in differentiation due to the material must be preclinically tested. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a preferable non-human primate animal model for this aim due to its genetic and physiological similarities to the human. Marmoset bone marrow-derived MSCs were successfully isolated, cultured and differentiated in suspension into adipogenic, osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages by defined factors. The differentiation capability could be determined by FACS. Specific marker genes for all three cell types could be detected by RT-PCR. Furthermore, MSCs seeded on collagen I scaffolds differentiated in adipogenic lineage showed after 28days of differentiation high cell viability and homogenous distribution on the material which was validated by calcein AM and EthD staining. As proof of adipogenic cells, the intracellular lipid vesicles in the cells were stained with Oil Red O. The generation of fat vacuoles was visibly extensive distinguishable and furthermore determined on the molecular level by expression of specific marker genes. The results of the study proved both the differential potential of marmoset MSCs in adipogenic, osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages and the suitability of collagen scaffolds as carrier material undisturbing differentiation of primate mesenchymal stem cells.
Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and Platelet-Rich Fibrin (PRF): surgical adjuvants, preparations for in situ regenerative medicine and tools for tissue engineering.	The recent developement of platelet concentrate for surgical use is an evolution of the fibrin glue technologies used since many years. The initial concept of these autologous preparations was to concentrate platelets and their growth factors in a plasma solution, and to activate it into a fibrin gel on a surgical site, in order to improve local healing. These platelet suspensions were often called Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP) like the platelet concentrate used in transfusion medicine, but many different technologies have in fact been developed; some of them are even no more platelet suspensions, but solid fibrin-based biomaterials called Platelet-Rich Fibrin (PRF). These various technologies were tested in many different clinical fields, particularly oral and maxillofacial surgery, Ear-Nose-Throat surgery, plastic surgery, orthopaedic surgery, sports medicine, gynecologic and cardiovascular surgery and ophthalmology. This field of research unfortunately suffers from the lack of a proper accurate terminology and the associated misunderstandings, and the literature on the topic is quite contradictory. Indeed, the effects of these preparations cannot be limited to their growth factor content: these products associate many actors of healing in synergy, such as leukocytes, fibrin matrix, and circulating progenitor cells, and are in fact as complex as blood itself. If platelet concentrates were first used as surgical adjuvants for the stimulation of healing (as fibrin glues enriched with growth factors), many applications for in situ regenerative medicine and tissue engineering were developed and offer a great potential. However, the future of this field is first dependent on his coherence and scientific clarity. The objectives of this article is to introduce the main definitions, problematics and perspectives that are described in this special issue of Current Pharmaceutical Biotechnology about platelet concentrates.
Galactosylated cellulosic sponge for multi-well drug safety testing.	Hepatocyte spheroids can maintain mature differentiated functions, but collide to form bulkier structures when in extended culture. When the spheroid diameter exceeds 200 m, cells in the inner core experience hypoxia and limited access to nutrients and drugs. Here we report the development of a thin galactosylated cellulosic sponge to culture hepatocytes in multi-well plates as 3D spheroids, and constrain them within a macroporous scaffold network to maintain spheroid size and prevent detachment. The hydrogel-based soft sponge conjugated with galactose provided suitable mechanical and chemical cues to support rapid formation of hepatocyte spheroids with a mature hepatocyte phenotype. The spheroids tethered in the sponge showed excellent maintenance of 3D cell morphology, cell-cell interaction, polarity, metabolic and transporter function and/or expression. For example, cytochrome P450 (CYP1A2, CYP2B2 and CYP3A2) activities were significantly elevated in spheroids exposed to -naphthoflavone, phenobarbital, or pregnenolone-16-carbonitrile, respectively. The sponge also exhibits minimal drug absorption compared to other commercially available scaffolds. As the cell seeding and culture protocols are similar to various high-throughput 2D cell-based assays, this platform is readily scalable and provides an alternative to current hepatocyte platforms used in drug safety testing applications.
Humanized mice with ectopic artificial liver tissues.	"Humanized" mice offer a window into aspects of human physiology that are otherwise inaccessible. The best available methods for liver humanization rely on cell transplantation into immunodeficient mice with liver injury but these methods have not gained widespread use due to the duration and variability of hepatocyte repopulation. In light of the significant progress that has been achieved in clinical cell transplantation through tissue engineering, we sought to develop a humanized mouse model based on the facile and ectopic implantation of a tissue-engineered human liver. These human ectopic artificial livers (HEALs) stabilize the function of cryopreserved primary human hepatocytes through juxtacrine and paracrine signals in polymeric scaffolds. In contrast to current methods, HEALs can be efficiently established in immunocompetent mice with normal liver function. Mice transplanted with HEALs exhibit humanized liver functions persistent for weeks, including synthesis of human proteins, human drug metabolism, drug-drug interaction, and drug-induced liver injury. Here, mice with HEALs are used to predict the disproportionate metabolism and toxicity of "major" human metabolites using multiple routes of administration and monitoring. These advances may enable manufacturing of reproducible in vivo models for diverse drug development and research applications.
Embryonic stem cells in scaffold-free three-dimensional cell culture: osteogenic differentiation and bone generation.	Extracorporeal formation of mineralized bone-like tissue is still an unsolved challenge in tissue engineering. Embryonic stem cells may open up new therapeutic options for the future and should be an interesting model for the analysis of fetal organogenesis. Here we describe a technique for culturing embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in the absence of artificial scaffolds which generated mineralized miromasses. Embryonic stem cells were harvested and osteogenic differentiation was stimulated by the addition of dexamethasone, ascorbic acid, and -glycerolphosphate (DAG). After three days of cultivation microspheres were formed. These spherical three-dimensional cell units showed a peripheral zone consisting of densely packed cell layers surrounded by minerals that were embedded in the extracellular matrix. Alizarine red staining confirmed evidence of mineralization after 10 days of DAG stimulation in the stimulated but not in the control group. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated scorching crystallites and collagenous fibrils as early indication of bone formation. These extracellular structures resembled hydroxyl apatite-like crystals as demonstrated by distinct diffraction patterns using electron diffraction analysis. The micromass culture technique is an appropriate model to form three-dimensional bone-like micro-units without the need for an underlying scaffold. Further studies will have to show whether the technique is applicable also to pluripotent stem cells of different origin.
Minimal surface scaffold designs for tissue engineering.	Triply-periodic minimal surfaces are shown to be a more versatile source of biomorphic scaffold designs than currently reported in the tissue engineering literature. A scaffold architecture with sheetlike morphology based on minimal surfaces is discussed, with significant structural and mechanical advantages over conventional designs. These sheet solids are porous solids obtained by inflation of cubic minimal surfaces to sheets of finite thickness, as opposed to the conventional network solids where the minimal surface forms the solid/void interface. Using a finite-element approach, the mechanical stiffness of sheet solids is shown to exceed that of conventional network solids for a wide range of volume fractions and material parameters. We further discuss structure-property relationships for mechanical properties useful for custom-designed fabrication by rapid prototyping. Transport properties of the scaffolds are analyzed using Lattice-Boltzmann computations of the fluid permeability. The large number of different minimal surfaces, each of which can be realized as sheet or network solids and at different volume fractions, provides design flexibility essential for the optimization of competing design targets.
In vitro platforms for tissue engineering: implications for basic research and clinical translation.	Clinical translation of engineered tissues into regenerative medicine applications, and the effort to reduce the use of animals for the screening of drugs and other compounds, result in an increasing demand for human tissues engineered in vitro for implantation, in vitro screening systems and basic research. Further development and optimization of in vitro models for quantitative studies of biophysical stimulation and mass transport in engineered tissues is seen as one of the high research priorities. A recent international symposium held in The Netherlands discussed the state of the art and key challenges in the development of bioreactor platforms and microscale technologies. Here we summarize the current status and future development of in vitro tissue models, based on the findings presented at this symposium.
Biomimetic method for combining the nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosus for intervertebral disc tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering strategies for the intervertebral disc (IVD) have traditionally focused either on the annulus fibrosus (AF) or the nucleus pulposus (NP) in isolation, or have simply compared AF cells and NP cells in identical culture conditions. Recently, others in the field have become aware of the advantage of combining the AF and NP into a more comprehensive strategy to address IVD tissue engineering, and have introduced biomimetic approaches to either AF or NP tissue engineering. Here, we introduced a new method for developing a biomimetic, cell-seeded IVD by electrospinning circumferentially-orientated polycaprolactone fibres (AF analogue), seeding them with cells (porcine chondrocytes) and then gelling a cell-agarose solution in the centre (NP analogue). Scanning electron microscopy images demonstrated a high degree of fibre alignment and, along with fluorescent actin staining, confirmed a preferred orientation of cells in the direction of the fibres. Viability assays and histology collectively demonstrated that cells were viable and well-distributed around the interface between the NP and AF regions. In addition, mechanical testing confirmed that the composite IVD scaffolds had higher moduli than the agarose hydrogels alone. As we enter the new decade and the fields of AF and NP tissue engineering begin to merge into a new interfacial and functional IVD tissue-engineering field, approaches such as the method presented here will serve as the foundation for continuously advancing technology that we ultimately endeavour to bring to the clinic for the treatment of patients severely afflicted by degenerative disc disease.
Design of semi-degradable hydrogels based on poly(vinyl alcohol) and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) for cartilage tissue engineering.	Articular cartilage damage is a persistent challenge in biomaterials and tissue engineering. Poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) hydrogels have shown promise as implants, but their lack of integration with surrounding cartilage prevents their utility. We sought to combine the advantages of PVA hydrogels with poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) scaffolds, which have been successful in facilitating the integration of neocartilage with surrounding tissue. Through a novel double-emulsion technique, PLGA microparticles and a high level of porosity were simultaneously incorporated into PVA hydrogels. The porosity, average pore size and swelling properties of the hydrogels were controlled by varying initial processing parameters, such as the relative amounts of PLGA and solvent. Average pore sizes were in the ranged 50-100 m. The PLGA microparticles degraded within the hydrogels over time in aqueous conditions, resulting in increases in porosity and pore size. After 4 weeks in cell culture, immature cartilage tissue filled many of the pores of the hydrogels that initially contained PLGA, and proteoglycan production was proportional to the amount of PLGA. In contrast, there was little cell attachment and no proteoglycan production in control hydrogels without PLGA. The compressive moduli of the hydrogels were similar to that of healthy cartilage and increased over time from 0.05-0.1 to 0.3-0.7 MPa. The generation of a hybrid cartilage-hydrogel construct using this technique may finally allow the integration of PVA hydrogels with surrounding cartilage.
Small intestine submucosa as a scaffold for cartilage reconstruction in vitro]	This paper is aimed to investigate the feasibility of applying the small intestine submucosa (SIS) as the scaffold in constructing tissue engineering cartilage in vitro. We obtained SIS from the small intestine of specific pathogen-free pigs. Then we isolated tunica submucosa layer from the mucosal, muscular, and serosal layers by gentle mechanic abrasion. The SIS was made acellular by combination of detergent and enzyme digestion. The chondrocytes were seeded onto the SIS and were cultured for 3 weeks. The cell growth, attachment and distribution were detected by histochemical stain, immunohistochemical stain and scan electron microscope. The chondrocytes could adhere and grow well on the matrix surface, and synthesize a large of the GAG and type U collagen. However, the chondrocytes grew only on the surface andsuperficial layer of the scaffold, they did not move into the inner part of the scaffold. It could be concluded that SIS has good cellular compatibility without cytotoxicity and provides temporary substrate to which these anchorage-dependent cells can adhere, and stimulate the chondrocytes anchored on the scaffold to proliferate and keep differentiated phenotype. Further study will be needed to promote the ability of chondrocyte chemotaxis in order to distribute the chondrocytes into the whole scaffold uniformly.
Research development of tissue-engineering in intervertebral disc anulus fibrosus]	Disc degeneration disease (DDD) is the major cause of lower back pain, resulting in significant serious social problems and economic burdens due to its high mortality rate and disability rate. Currently available clinic treatments are inefficient for solving spinal structure and function insufficiency caused by the DDD, especially for patients with degenerated or broken anulus fibrosus. Tissue engineering provides a promising and available strategy to regenerate a new anulus fibrosus with complete bio-functions. This review following primary introduces the current research progress and the potential development orientation of tissue engineering anulus fibrosus.
Thermosensitive chitosan-gelatin-glycerol phosphate hydrogel as a controlled release system of ferulic acid for nucleus pulposus regeneration.	In the degenerative disc, overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) involves in apoptosis and senescence of nucleus pulposus (NP) cells that could accelerate the degenerative process. Ferulic acid (FA) has been reported to have an excellent antioxidant property. In the study, injectable thermosensitive chitosan/gelatin/glycerol phosphate (C/G/GP) hydrogel was applied as a controlled release system for FA delivery. The study was aimed to evaluate possible therapeutic effects of FA-incorporated C/G/GP hydrogel on hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-induced oxidative stress NP cells. The results showed that the release of FA from C/G/GP hydrogel could decrease the H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress. Post-treatment of FA-incorporated C/G/GP hydrogel on H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress NP cells showed up-regulation of Aggrecan and type II collagen and down-regulation of MMP-3 in mRNA level. The results of sulfated-glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) to DNA ratio and alcian blue staining revealed that the GAGs production of H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress NP cells could reach to normal level. The results of caspase-3 activity and TUNEL staining indicated that FA-incorporated C/G/GP hydrogel decreased the apoptosis of H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress NP cells. The results suggested that the C/G/GP hydrogel was very suitable for sustained delivery of FA. The FA-incorporated C/G/GP hydrogel would be used to treat the degenerative disc in the early stage before it developed into the latter irreversible stages.
Bioengineering human microvascular networks in immunodeficient mice.	The future of tissue engineering and cell-based therapies for tissue regeneration will likely rely on our ability to generate functional vascular networks in vivo. In this regard, the search for experimental models to build blood vessel networks in vivo is of utmost importance. The feasibility of bioengineering microvascular networks in vivo was first shown using human tissue-derived mature endothelial cells (ECs); however, such autologous endothelial cells present problems for wide clinical use, because they are difficult to obtain in sufficient quantities and require harvesting from existing vasculature. These limitations have instigated the search for other sources of ECs. The identification of endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFCs) in blood presented an opportunity to non-invasively obtain ECs (5-7). We and other authors have shown that adult and cord blood-derived ECFCs have the capacity to form functional vascular networks in vivo. Importantly, these studies have also shown that to obtain stable and durable vascular networks, ECFCs require co-implantation with perivascular cells. The assay we describe here illustrates this concept: we show how human cord blood-derived ECFCs can be combined with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a single cell suspension in a collagen/fibronectin/fibrinogen gel to form a functional human vascular network within 7 days after implantation into an immunodeficient mouse. The presence of human ECFC-lined lumens containing host erythrocytes can be seen throughout the implants indicating not only the formation (de novo) of a vascular network, but also the development of functional anastomoses with the host circulatory system. This murine model of bioengineered human vascular network is ideally suited for studies on the cellular and molecular mechanisms of human vascular network formation and for the development of strategies to vascularize engineered tissues.
Collagen-based scaffolds for skin tissue engineering.	The aim of this study was to obtain four collagen based porous scaffolds and to assess their in vitro biocompatibility and biodegradability in order to use them for skin tissue engineering. We have prepared four variants of collagen-based biodegradable sponges by liophilization of type I collagen solution and three variants of collagen-agarose mixture in different ratios 2:1 (A), 1:1 (B) and 1:2 (C). These scaffolds had microporous structure with a higher than 98% porosity and a reduced biodegradation after their exposure to UV radiation. The incorporation of agarose into the collagen scaffolds has improved their structural stability. In vitro biocompatibility testing for the four types of sponges was performed on a stabilized fibroblast cell line and showed that both cell viability and morphology were not altered by collagen and collagen-agarose variants A and B sponges. These three porous sponges demonstrated potential for future application as cell scaffolds in skin tissue engineering.
Applications of knitted mesh fabrication techniques to scaffolds for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.	Knitting is an ancient and yet, a fresh technique. It has a history of no less than 1,000 years. The development of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine provides a new role for knitting. Several meshes knitted from synthetic or biological materials have been designed and applied, either alone, to strengthen materials for the patching of soft tissues, or in combination with other kinds of biomaterials, such as collagen and fibroin, to repair or replace damaged tissues/organs. In the latter case, studies have demonstrated that knitted mesh scaffolds (KMSs) possess excellent mechanical properties and can promote more effective tissue repair, ligament/tendon/cartilage regeneration, pipe-like-organ reconstruction, etc. In the process of tissue regeneration induced by scaffolds, an important synergic relationship emerges between the three-dimensional microstructure and the mechanical properties of scaffolds. This paper presents a comprehensive overview of the status and future prospects of knitted meshes and its KMSs for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Engineering alginate for intervertebral disc repair.	Alginate is frequently studied as a scaffold for intervertebral disc (IVD) repair, since it closely mimics mechanical and cell-adhesive properties of the nucleus pulposus (NP) of the IVD. The aim of this study was to assess the relation between alginate concentration and scaffold stiffness and find preparation conditions where the viscoelastic behaviour mimics that of the NP. In addition, we measured the effect of variations in scaffold stiffness on the expression of extracellular matrix molecules specific to the NP (proteoglycans and collagen) by native NP cells. We prepared sample discs of different concentrations of alginate (1%-6%) by two different methods, diffusion and in situ gelation. The stiffness increased with increasing alginate concentration, while the loss tangent (dissipative behaviour) remained constant. The diffusion samples were ten-fold stiffer than samples prepared by in situ gelation. Sample discs prepared from 2% alginate by diffusion closely matched the stiffness and loss tangent of the NP. The stiffness of all samples declined upon prolonged incubation in medium, especially for samples prepared by diffusion. The biosynthetic phenotype of native cells isolated from NPs was preserved in alginate matrices up to 4 weeks of culturing. Gene expression levels of extracellular matrix components were insensitive to alginate concentration and corresponding matrix stiffness, likely due to the poor adhesiveness of the cells to alginate. In conclusion, alginate can mimic the viscoelastic properties of the NP and preserve the biosynthetic phenotype of NP cells but certain limitations like long-term stability still have to be addressed.
The effect of cyclic hydrostatic pressure on the functional development of cartilaginous tissues engineered using bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells.	Mechanical signals can play a key role in regulating the chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The objective of this study was to determine if the long-term application of cyclic hydrostatic pressure could be used to improve the functional properties of cartilaginous tissues engineered using bone marrow derived MSCs. MSCs were isolated from the femora of two porcine donors, expanded separately under identical conditions, and then suspended in cylindrical agarose hydrogels. Constructs from both donors were maintained in a chemically defined media supplemented with TGF-3 for 42 days. TGF-3 was removed from a subset of constructs from day 21 to 42. Loaded groups were subjected to 10 MPa of cyclic hydrostatic pressurisation at 1 Hz for one hour/day, five days/week. Loading consisted either of continuous hydrostatic pressure (CHP) initiated at day 0, or delayed hydrostatic pressure (DHP) initiated at day 21. Free swelling (FS) constructs were cultured in parallel as controls. Constructs were assessed at days 0, 21 and 42. MSCs isolated from both donors were morphologically similar, demonstrated comparable colony forming unit-fibroblast (CFU-F) numbers, and accumulated near identical levels of collagen and GAG following 42 days of free swelling culture. Somewhat unexpectedly the two donors displayed a differential response to hydrostatic pressure. For one donor the application of CHP resulted in increased collagen and GAG accumulation by day 42, resulting in an increased dynamic modulus compared to FS controls. In contrast, CHP had no effect on matrix accumulation for the other donor. The application of DHP had no effect on either matrix accumulation or construct mechanical properties for both donors. Variability in the response to hydrostatic pressure was also observed for three further donors. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that the application of long-term hydrostatic pressure can be used to improve the functional properties of cartilaginous tissues engineered using bone marrow derived MSCs by enhancing collagen and GAG accumulation. The response to such loading however is donor dependent, which has implications for the clinical utilisation of such a stimulus when engineering cartilaginous grafts using autologous MSCs.
Differences in osteogenic differentiation of adipose-derived stromal cells from murine, canine, and human sources in vitro and in vivo.	Given the diversity of species from which adipose-derived stromal cells are derived and studied, the authors set out to delineate the differences in the basic cell biology that may exist across species. Briefly, the authors found that significant differences exist with regard to proliferation and osteogenic potentials of adipose-derived stromal cells across species.
Dedifferentiated fat cells: an alternative source of adult multipotent cells from the adipose tissues.	When adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) are retrieved from the stromal vascular portion of adipose tissue, a large amount of mature adipocytes are often discarded. However, by modified ceiling culture technique based on their buoyancy, mature adipocytes can be easily isolated from the adipose cell suspension and dedifferentiated into lipid-free fibroblast-like cells, named dedifferentiated fat (DFAT) cells. DFAT cells re-establish active proliferation ability and undertake multipotent capacities. Compared with ASCs and other adult stem cells, DFAT cells showed unique advantages in their abundance, isolation and homogeneity. In this concise review, the establishment and culture methods of DFAT cells are introduced and the current profiles of their cellular nature are summarized. Under proper induction culture in vitro or environment in vivo, DFAT cells could demonstrate adipogenic, osteogenic, chondrogenic and myogenic potentials. In angiogenic conditions, DFAT cells could exhibit perivascular characteristics and elicit neovascularization. Our preliminary findings also suggested the pericyte phenotype underlying such cell lineage, which supported a novel interpretation about the common origin of mesenchymal stem cells and tissue-specific stem cells within blood vessel walls. Current research on DFAT cells indicated that this alternative source of adult multipotent cells has great potential in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Stem cell engineering: limitation, alternatives, and insight.	The 21st century will see improvements in the quality of human life. The development of new therapeutic technologies will prevent prevalent diseases and enable recovery from currently incurable diseases. The development of cell and tissue replacement therapies using stem cells and their progenitors will accelerate the development of causative treatments. The effort expended thus far in developing cell therapies has revealed many technical limitations. Thus, we must explore conceptual changes in the feasibility of stem cell therapy. This paper introduces the current limitations to stem cell engineering and ways to overcome these limitations, which will provide new insight into their clinical application.
Tendon phenotype should dictate tissue engineering modality in tendon repair: a review.	Advancements in the technical aspects of tendon repair have significantly improved the treatment of tendon injuries. Arthroscopic techniques, suture material, and improved rehabilitation have all been contributing factors. Biological augmentation and tissue engineering appear to have the potential to improve clinical outcomes as well. After review of the physiology of tendon repair, three critical components of tissue engineering can be discerned: the cellular component, the carrier vehicle (matrix or scaffold), and the bioactive component (growth factors, platelet rich plasma). These three components are discussed with regard to each of three tendon types: Intra-synovial (flexor tendon), extra-synovial (Achilles tendon), and extra-synovial tendon under compression (rotator cuff). Scaffolds, biologically enhanced scaffolds, growth factors, platelet rich plasma, gene therapy, mesenchymal stem cells, and local environment factors in combination or alone may contribute to tendon healing. In the future it may be beneficial to differentiate these modes of healing augmentation with regard to tendon subtype.
Photoactivated composite biomaterial for soft tissue restoration in rodents and in humans.	Soft tissue reconstruction often requires multiple surgical procedures that can result in scars and disfiguration. Facial soft tissue reconstruction represents a clinical challenge because even subtle deformities can severely affect an individual's social and psychological function. We therefore developed a biosynthetic soft tissue replacement composed of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) and hyaluronic acid (HA) that can be injected and photocrosslinked in situ with transdermal light exposure. Modulating the ratio of synthetic to biological polymer allowed us to tune implant elasticity and volume persistence. In a small-animal model, implanted photocrosslinked PEG-HA showed a dose-dependent relationship between increasing PEG concentration and enhanced implant volume persistence. In direct comparison with commercial HA injections, the PEG-HA implants maintained significantly greater average volumes and heights. Reversibility of the implant volume was achieved with hyaluronidase injection. Pilot clinical testing in human patients confirmed the feasibility of the transdermal photocrosslinking approach for implantation in abdomen soft tissue, although an inflammatory response was observed surrounding some of the materials.
Tissue engineering of the urinary bladder: current concepts and future perspectives.	There are many conditions that can affect the normal structure of the urinary bladder wall and lead to the inadequate evacuation of urine or even disable urine excretion. In these cases, the essential task is to restore the function of the urinary bladder, most often through surgical intervention. Some of the disorders, such as bladder acontractility, bladder cancer, and inflammatory disease, represent a great challenge in practice due to the number of complications that can occur after the intervention and due to frequent relapses. The use of tissue engineering strategies that include the use of stem cells and artificially created scaffolds could give solutions for treatment of many disorders of the urinary bladder and transplantation therapies in the future. Although the research in this field is still in its infancy, there are some promising results that raise hope that the tissue engineering approach could offer long-term solutions for many issues in regenerative urology. This review summarizes the current achievements and perspectives in the use of stem cells and tissue engineering techniques in the field of urinary bladder regeneration.
Biomimesis and biomorphic transformations: new concepts applied to bone regeneration.	In the last decades the activity of material scientists was more and more directed to the development of biomimetic scaffolds, able to drive and address cell activity towards proper differentiation and the repair of diseased human tissues. In case of bone, this requires the synthesis of three-dimensional constructs able to exchange chemical signals promoting osteogenesis and to progressively be resorbed during the formation and remodelling of new bone. Besides, particularly for the regeneration of extensive portions of bone, a morphological and mechanical biomimesis is also required, to allow cell colonization and formation of a proper vascularization tree. The healing of load-bearing bones also requires scaffolds with a hierarchically organized morphology, to provide improved biomechanical behaviour and allow a proper mechano-transduction of the mechanical stimuli down to the cell level. The present paper is an overview of the current technologies and devices developed in the last decade for the regeneration of bone tissue. In particular, novel biomimetic and biomorphic scaffolds, obtained by the controlled transformation of native ligneous structures, promise to adequately face the problem of obtaining complex hierarchical structures, not achievable otherwise by any currently existing manufacturing techniques.
Skin engineering for burns treatment]	Severely burned patients need effective and permanent wound coverage. The outcome of massive burn injuries has improved with the use of cultured epithelial autografts (CEA), despite their fragility, frequent failure to take, high cost and long-term tendency to contract. Combining CEA with dermal substitutes provides earlier skin closure and satisfactory functional results. Another promising line of research is skin regeneration with epidermal stem cells, which have the capacity to differentiate into keratinocytes, to promote wound repair, and to regenerate skin appendages. Human mesenchymal stem cells have been evaluated in radiation-induced skin damage.
The effect of exogenous histone H1 on rat adipose-derived stem cell proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation in vitro.	Adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) are of great interest for the development of novel cell therapies due to their ease of isolation and expansion, immunosuppressive activity, and multilineage differentiation potential. However, the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic potential of ASCs remain to be elucidated. Others and we have shown that nuclear proteins such as histone H1 and high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) play important roles in the maturation of dendritic cells (DCs). Furthermore, we previously demonstrated translocation of histone H1 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in DCs. In the present study, we confirmed that histone H1 does not alter the immunophenotype and immunosuppression potential of ASCs, but that histone H1 enhanced wound healing and increased interleukin (IL)-6 expression. Moreover, histone H1 treated-ASCs showed up-regulation of MAPKs extracellular-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and sequential NF-B translocation. Finally, we found that culture in differentiation media supplemented with histone H1 enhanced ASC osteogenesis. In contrast, inhibition of histone H1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) reduced osteogenic differentiation markers including ALP. These results suggest that histone H1 may be useful for induction of mesenchymal stem cells in tissue engineering and future potential ASC therapies.
Modeling stem/progenitor cell-induced neovascularization and oxygenation around solid implants.	Tissue engineering constructs and other solid implants with biomedical applications, such as drug delivery devices or bioartificial organs, need oxygen (O(2)) to function properly. To understand better the vascular integration of such devices, we recently developed a novel model sensor containing O(2)-sensitive crystals, consisting of a polymeric capsule limited by a nanoporous filter. The sensor was implanted in mice with hydrogel alone (control) or hydrogel embedded with mouse CD117/c-kit+ bone marrow progenitor cells in order to stimulate peri-implant neovascularization. The sensor provided local partial O(2) pressure (pO(2)) using noninvasive electron paramagnetic resonance signal measurements. A consistently higher level of peri-implant oxygenation was observed in the cell-treatment case than in the control over a 10-week period. To provide a mechanistic explanation of these experimental observations, we present in this article a mathematical model, formulated as a system of coupled partial differential equations, that simulates peri-implant vascularization. In the control case, vascularization is considered to be the result of a foreign body reaction, while in the cell-treatment case, adipogenesis in response to paracrine stimuli produced by the stem cells is assumed to induce neovascularization. The model is validated by fitting numerical predictions of local pO(2) to measurements from the implanted sensor. The model is then used to investigate further the potential for using stem cell treatment to enhance the vascular integration of biomedical implants. We thus demonstrate how mathematical modeling combined with experimentation can be used to infer how vasculature develops around biomedical implants in control and stem cell-treated cases.
In situ tissue engineering using magnetically guided three-dimensional cell patterning.	Manipulation of cell patterns in three dimensions in a manner that mimics natural tissue organization and function is critical for cell biological studies and likely essential for successfully regenerating tissues--especially cells with high physiological demands, such as those of the heart, liver, lungs, and articular cartilage.(1, 2) In the present study, we report on the feasibility of arranging iron oxide-labeled cells in three-dimensional hydrogels using magnetic fields. By manipulating the strength, shape, and orientation of the magnetic field and using crosslinking gradients in hydrogels, multi-directional cell arrangements can be produced in vitro and even directly in situ. We show that these ferromagnetic particles are nontoxic between 0.1 and 10 mg/mL; certain species of particles can permit or even enhance tissue formation, and these particles can be tracked using magnetic resonance imaging. Taken together, this approach can be adapted for studying basic biological processes in vitro, for general tissue engineering approaches, and for producing organized repair tissues directly in situ.
Freeze-dried heart valve scaffolds.	In this study, structure and biomechanical properties of freeze-dried decellularized porcine pulmonary heart valves were investigated. Heart valves were dissected from porcine hearts. The tissues were decellularized and separated in three groups: (1) without lyoprotectant, (2) with 5% sucrose, and (3) with a mixture of 2.5% sucrose and 2.5% hydroxyl ethylene starch (HES), and then underwent freeze-drying. Freeze-drying in the absence of lyoprotectants caused an overall more disintegrated appearance of the histological architecture of the porcine valves, especially between the fibrosa and the ventricularis layers. Freeze-dried tissues with lyoprotectants have a looser network of collagen and elastic fibers with bigger pore sizes. Tissue freeze-dried in the absence of lyoprotecants had the largest pore sizes, whereas the tissue freeze-dried in the presence of protectants showed pores of intermediate sizes between the decellularized tissue and the unprotected freeze-dried samples. Tissue freeze-dried with sucrose alone displayed less porosity than tissue freeze-dried with the sucrose/HES mixture, whereas no significant differences in biomechanical properties were observed. Decellularization decreased the elastic modulus of artery tissue. The elastic modulus of freeze-dried tissue without protectants resembled that of decellularized tissue. The elastic modulus values of freeze-dried tissue stabilized by lyoprotectants were greater than those of decellularized tissue, but similar to those of native tissue.
Three-dimensional image quantification as a new morphometry method for tissue engineering.	Morphological analysis is an essential step in verifying the success of a tissue engineering strategy where the presence of a desired cellular phenotype must be determined. While morphometry has transitioned from observational grading to computational quantification, established quantitative methods eliminate information by relying on two-dimensional (2D) analysis to describe three-dimensional (3D) niches. In this study, we demonstrate the validity and utility of 3D morphological quantification using two common angiogenesis assays in our fibrin-based in vitro model: (1) the microcarrier bead assay with human mesenchymal stem cells and (2) the rat aortic ring outgrowth assay. The quantification method is based on collecting and segmenting fluorescent confocal z-stacks into 3D models with 3D Slicer, an open-source magnetic resonance imaging/computed tomography analysis program. Data from 3D models are then processed into biologically relevant metrics in MATLAB for statistical analysis. Metrics include descriptive parameters such as vascular network length, volume, number of network segments, and degree of network branching. Our results indicate that 2D measures are significantly different than their 3D counterparts unless the vascular network exhibits anisotropic growth along the plane of imaging. Additionally, the statistical outcomes of 3D morphological quantification agreed with our initial qualitative observations among different test groups. This novel quantification approach generates more spatially accurate and objective measures, representing an important step toward improving the reliability of morphological comparisons.
Osteogenic and chondrogenic potential of biomembrane cells from the PMMA-segmental defect rat model.	A layer of cells (the "biomembrane") has been identified in large segmental defects between bone and surgically placed methacrylate spacers or antibiotic-impregnated cement beads. We hypothesize that this contains a pluripotent stem cell population with potential valuable applications in orthopedic tissue engineering. Objectives using biomembranes harvested from rat segmental defects were to: (1) Culture biomembrane cells in specialized media to direct progenitor cells along bone or cartilage cell differentiation lineages; (2) evaluate harvested biomembranes for mesenchymal stem cell markers, and (3) define relevant gene expression patterns in harvested biomembranes using microarray analysis. Culture in osteogenic media produced mineralized nodules; culture in chondrogenic media produced masses containing chondroitin sulfate/sulfated proteoglycans. Molecular analysis of biomembrane cells versus control periosteum showed significant upregulation of key genes functioning in mesenchymal stem cell differentiation, development, maintenance, and proliferation. Results identified significant upregulation of WNT receptor signaling pathway genes and significant upregulation of BMP signaling pathway genes. Findings confirm that the biomembrane has a pluripotent stem cell population. The ability to heal large bone defects is clinically challenging, and novel tissue engineering uses of the biomembrane hold great promise in treating non-unions, open fractures with large bone loss and/or infections, and defects associated with tumor resection.
Ectopic bone regeneration by human bone marrow mononucleated cells, undifferentiated and osteogenically differentiated bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in beta-tricalcium phosphate scaffolds.	Tissue engineering approaches using the combination of porous ceramics and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent a promising bone substitute for repairing large bone defects. Nevertheless, optimal conditions for constructing tissue-engineered bone have yet to be determined. It remains unclear if transplantation of predifferentiated BMSCs is superior to undifferentiated BMSCs or freshly isolated bone marrow mononucleated cells (BMNCs) in terms of new bone formation in vivo. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of in vitro osteogenic differentiation (-glycerophosphate, dexamethasone, and l-ascorbic acid) of human BMSCs on the capability to form tissue-engineered bone in unloaded conditions after subcutaneous implantation in nude mice. After isolation from human bone marrow aspirates, BMNCs were divided into three parts: one part was seeded onto porous beta-tricalcium phosphate ceramics immediately and transplanted in a heterotopic nude mice model; two parts were expanded in vitro to passage 2 before cell seeding and in vivo transplantation, either under osteogenic conditions or not. Animals were sacrificed for micro-CT and histological evaluation at 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 weeks postimplantation. The results showed that BMSCs differentiated into osteo-progenitor cells after induction, as evidenced by the altered cell morphology and elevated alkaline phosphatase activity and calcium deposition, but their clonogenicity, proliferating rate, and seeding efficacy were not significantly affected by osteogenic differentiation, compared with undifferentiated cells. Extensive new bone formed in the pores of all the scaffolds seeded with predifferentiated BMSCs at 4 weeks after implantation, and maintained for 20 weeks. On the contrary, scaffolds containing undifferentiated BMSCs revealed limited bone formation only in 1 out of 6 cases at 8 weeks, and maintained for 4 weeks. For scaffolds with BMNCs, woven bone was observed sporadically only in one case at 8 weeks. Overall, this study suggests that ectopic osteogenesis of cell/scaffold composites is more dependent on the in vitro expansion condition, and osteo-differentiated BMSCs hold the highest potential concerning in vivo bone regeneration.
Dermatan sulphate in methoxy polyethylene glycol-polylactide-co-glycolic acid scaffolds upregulates fibronectin gene expression but has no effect on in vivo osteochondral repair.	The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of dermatan sulphate (DS) addition to biodegradable methoxy polyethylene glycol (MPEG) substituted polylactide-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) scaffolds for cartilage repair in vitro and in vivo.
In the spotlight: tissue engineering--quantitative analysis of complex 3-D tissues.	This work highlights the impact that integrated measurement techniques in tissue engineering platforms can have in elucidating basic biologic mechanisms. In this work, a composite matrix and strain device is described that can support natural matrices within a macroporous elastic structure of polyurethane. In this way, a well-defined dynamic strain could be imposed on the 3-D collagen and cells within the collagen for several days without the typical matrix contraction by fibroblasts when cultured in 3-D collagen gels. Taken together, these papers are illustrative of a larger body of work that is beginning to develop and integrate quantitative measurements techniques into complex tissue microenvironments in order to better understand dynamic responses to mechanical and chemical cues.
In the spotlight: tissue engineering.	There are numerous studies that are being conducted in elucidating the biophysical effects of cells. The papers highlighted in this review present several different approaches to tease out the contribution of multiple factors in these highly complex systems. As the field moves forward, the ability to perturb the in vivo cellular microenvironment in order to promote tissue regeneration will directly benefit from our understanding of the physical (and chemical) factors that regulate cell behavior.
Scale-up of MSC under hypoxic conditions for allogeneic transplantation and enhancing bony regeneration in a rabbit calvarial defect model.	To realize the therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), we aimed to develop a method for isolating and expanding New Zealand rabbit MSCs in a great scale. Rabbit MSCs expanded under hypoxic and normoxic conditions were compared in terms of replication capacity, differentiation potential, and the capacity for allogeneic transplantation in a calvarial defect model. The cells from all tested rabbits were expanded more rapidly when plated at low-density under hypoxic conditions compared to under normoxic conditions. Moreover, cells expanded under hypoxic conditions increased in the potential of osteoblastic, adipocytic, and chondrocytic differentiation. More importantly, radiographic analysis and micro-CT measurement of bone volume revealed the hypoxic cells when transplanted in the calvarial defects of another rabbit increased in the ability to repair bone defect compared to the normoxic cells. Six weeks after allogeneic transplantation of hypoxic MSCs, histological analysis revealed a callus spanned the length of the defect, and several bone tissues spotted in the implant. At 12 weeks, new bone had formed throughout the implant. Using BrdU labeling to track the transplanted cells, the hypoxic cells were more detected in the newly formed bone compared to the normoxic cells. For defects treated with allogeneic MSCs, no adverse host response could be detected at any time-point. In conclusion, we have developed a robust method for isolation and expansion of rabbit MSCs by combining low-density with hypoxic culture, which can be applied for the design of clinical trials in allogeneic transplantation of MSCs for bone healing.
Re-epithelialization of demucosalized stomach patch with tissue-engineered urothelial mucosa combined with Botox A in bladder augmentation.	Re-epithelialization demucosa stomach patch is important to prevent the patch being exposed to urine that might cause patch shrinkage and fibrosis formation due to urine-derived chemical irritation. Additionally, Botox A acts by blocking the transmission of nerve impulses to smooth muscles and so paralysing the muscles, which is commonly used to relax muscle for treatment of oesophageal achalasia due to overactive smooth muscle and sphincters of gastrointestinal tract. We fabricated in vitro tissue engineered urothelial mucosa with multi-layers of urothelium and smooth muscle layers seeded on SIS scaffold and then used this cell-scaffold construct to cover nuke gastro patch combining with Botox A for gastrocystoplasty in a canine model.
The dynamic healing profile of human periodontal ligament stem cells: histological and immunohistochemical analysis using an ectopic transplantation model.	Human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) have been reported to play the pivotal role in periodontal regeneration. However, the dynamic cellular healing process initiated by hPDLSCs still remains to be elucidated. In the present study, the sequence of regeneration by hPDLSCs was assessed using histological and immunohistochemical observation in an ectopic transplantation model, which is a well-standardized assessment tool that excludes the innate healing factors from the animals.
Foreword: stem cell applications and tissue engineering approaches in sports medicine- from bench to bedside.	Musculoskeletal tissue is frequently damaged or lost in sports injuries. Although surgery has been successful in repairing, realigning and replacing damaged musculoskeletal structures, the challenge of the coming years is to establish whether a paradigm shift from fixation towards regeneration of tissue is possible, clinically feasible and financially viable. There has been an increasing interest in stem cell applications and tissue engineering approaches in surgical practice to deal with damaged or lost tissue caused by sports injuries [1-3]. Tissue engineering is the science of generating tissue using molecular and cellular techniques, combined with material engineering principles, to replace tissue. Although there have been developments in almost all surgical disciplines [1], the greatest advances are being made in orthopaedics, especially in sports medicine [3]. This is due to many factors including the familiarity with bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells.
The role of bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells in sports injuries.	The therapeutic use of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) has been applied to many different tissue types that are vulnerable to sports injuries. Avenues of treatment include direct injection of BM-MSCs into the defect, however although minimally invasive, research has highlighted flaws which have been improved upon with the use of scaffolds. BM-MSCs have been applied via many different scaffold types, for example PLGA, collagen gel and coral each with advantages and disadvantages of which can be improved through further research. As a cell source for tissue engineering, BM-MSCs are ideal due to the minimal invasion of aspiration, high in vitro proliferation rate and the ability to maintain their differentiating capacity. The vast majority of these studies are at the small animal stage and therefore further work using larger animal models, and ideally humans is required.
The challenges of cartilage repair and the potential of stem cell applications.	Articular cartilage injuries pose a treatment challenge. These injuries are a direct cause of pain and loss of function and may precipitate osteoarthritis in the affected joint. Typically affecting a younger, more active population whose expectations of treatment and need for long term joint preservation are high. Articular cartilage poses a treatment challenge in that its capacity for satisfactory healing is limited. The common endpoint of conservative management and traditional surgical interventions is the generation of biomechanically inferior fibrocartilage. Regenerative techniques using human stem cells would appear to represent an exciting modality for the production of true hyaline cartilage with material and biological properties suited for lasting function. This review article summarises the current research regarding the use of human stem cells in the treatment of such injuries.
Current cell-based strategies for knee cartilage injuries.	Cartilage is frequently damaged and shows little or no capacity for repair. Injuries that extend to the subchondral level show some capacity for repair due to the release of bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells. This technique is employed in techniques like the microfracture but they are only appropriate for smaller cartilage defects. Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation (ACI) and Matrix-carried Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation (MACI) are currently used in clinical practice to treat larger full thickness chondral defects in the knee with similar results. MACI does however have a number of advantages including its amenability to be performed arthroscopically or through a more limited approach without requiring arthrotomy. More definitive studies showing the long-term effects of the two cell-based treatments and comparing them are however awaited. There are a small number of studies using mesenchymal stem cells and further in vitro and in vivo studies are needed before this treatment is optimised. This review discussed these treatment options and provides an evidence-based approach to current clinical treatments.
Stem cells for tendon and ligament tissue engineering and regeneration.	Tendons and ligaments are frequently injured. Due to their relatively avascular nature, repair is slow and often incomplete. Stem cells offer a new approach to augment healing of native tissues, as well as providing materials to surgically replace injured structures that are beyond repair. Here we discuss the various roles of stem cells in natural repair processes compared to engineered tissues to assist healing or replace tissues.
Functional tissue engineering for rotator cuff tendons.	Rotator cuff disease is becoming more prevalent and is a significant source of pain and disability. Current methods of treating rotator cuff dysfunction have inconsistent results and there is a high rate of recurrent tear and failure. This has prompted the search for novel solutions and the use of tissue engineered strategies and approaches. This article looks at the current state of tissue engineering methods for rotator cuff regeneration.
A potential skin substitute constructed with hEGF gene modified HaCaT cells for treatment of burn wounds in a rat model.	This study aimed to investigate the feasibility of using an immortal keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT cells, to effectively deliver epidermal growth factor (EGF) in a skin substitute to treat burn wounds. The skin equivalent was constructed with human EGF (hEGF) gene modified HaCaT cells obtained through stable gene transfection; these were applied to full thickness burn wounds in a rat model. The results showed that the hEGF gene modified HaCaT cells produced more than 390ng/l of bioactive hEGF in the culture supernatant. K19 and integrin-1 as keratinocyte differentiation markers were elevated in the hEGF gene modified HaCaT cells which were shown to be non-tumorigenic. The skin equivalent constructed with hEGF gene modified HaCaT cells demonstrated improved epidermal morphogenesis with a thick and compact epidermis. Wound healing was accelerated noticeably when applied with this skin substitute seeded with hEGF gene modified HaCaT cells in vivo. The results suggest that HaCaT cells modified with hEGF gene might be promising seed cells for construction of genetically modified skin substitute which can effectively secrete hEGF to accelerate wound repair and regeneration.
Microvessel networks [corrected] pre-formed in artificial clinical grade dermal substitutes in vitro using cells from haematopoietic tissues.	Forming a microcirculation is critical for vascularisation of artificial skin substitutes. One strategy to improve speed of grafting is to pre-form microvascular networks in the substitute before applying to a wound. For clinical application, this requires sufficient functional endothelial cell numbers. In vitro endothelial colony forming cells (ECFCs) derived cells were expanded from cord and adult blood donations and co-cultured with human dermal fibroblasts or bone marrow mesenchymal stem/stromal cells to form microvascular networks in the presence or absence of dermal substitutes which are in clinical use. The number of endothelial cells generated ranged from 1.0310(9) to 2.1810(11) from 10 adult blood donations and 110(12) to 1.7610(13) from 6 cord blood units after 50 days in culture. Two adult donations failed to generate ECFCs. Both cord and adult blood cells formed 2D microvascular networks in vitro, although there was a significant difference in the functional capacity of adult and cord blood ECFCs. While co-culture of the latter within dermal substitutes Matriderm or Integra demonstrated the formation of 3D microvascular networks penetrating 100m, enhanced expansion, while maintaining functional capacity, of adult blood cells is required for fully pre-vascularising the clinical grade acellular dermal substitutes used here prior to applying these to burns.
Advances in natural biomaterials for nerve tissue repair.	Natural biomaterials are well positioned to play a significant role in the development of the next generation of biomaterials for nervous system repair. These materials are derived from naturally occurring substances and are highly diverse and versatile. They are generally biocompatible and are well tolerated in vivo, and therefore have a high potential to be successful as part of clinical repair strategies in the nervous system. Here we review recent reports on acellular tissue grafts, collagen, hyaluronan, fibrin, and agarose in their use to repair the nervous system. In addition, newly developed advanced fabrication techniques to further develop the next generation natural biomaterials-based therapeutic devices are discussed.
Development of silk-based scaffolds for tissue engineering of bone from human adipose-derived stem cells.	Silk fibroin is a potent alternative to other biodegradable biopolymers for bone tissue engineering (TE), because of its tunable architecture and mechanical properties, and its demonstrated ability to support bone formation both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we investigated a range of silk scaffolds for bone TE using human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), an attractive cell source for engineering autologous bone grafts. Our goal was to understand the effects of scaffold architecture and biomechanics and use this information to optimize silk scaffolds for bone TE applications. Silk scaffolds were fabricated using different solvents (aqueous vs. hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP)), pore sizes (250-500 m vs. 500-1000 m) and structures (lamellar vs. spherical pores). Four types of silk scaffolds combining the properties of interest were systematically compared with respect to bone tissue outcomes, with decellularized trabecular bone (DCB) included as a "gold standard". The scaffolds were seeded with hASCs and cultured for 7 weeks in osteogenic medium. Bone formation was evaluated by cell proliferation and differentiation, matrix production, calcification and mechanical properties. We observed that 400-600 m porous HFIP-derived silk fibroin scaffold demonstrated the best bone tissue formation outcomes, as evidenced by increased bone protein production (osteopontin, collagen type I, bone sialoprotein), enhanced calcium deposition and total bone volume. On a direct comparison basis, alkaline phosphatase activity (AP) at week 2 and new calcium deposition at week 7 were comparable to the cells cultured in DCB. Yet, among the aqueous-based structures, the lamellar architecture induced increased AP activity and demonstrated higher equilibrium modulus than the spherical-pore scaffolds. Based on the collected data, we propose a conceptual model describing the effects of silk scaffold design on bone tissue formation.
Hydrogels for protein delivery in tissue engineering.	Tissue defects caused by diseases or trauma present enormous challenges in regenerative medicine. Recently, a better understanding of the biological processes underlying tissue repair led to the establishment of new approaches in tissue engineering which comprise the combination of biodegradable scaffolds and appropriate cells together with specific environmental cues, such as growth or adhesive factors. These factors (in fact proteins) have to be loaded and sustainably released from the scaffolds in time. This review provides an overview of the various hydrogel technologies that have been proposed to control the release of bioactive molecules of interest for tissue engineering applications. In particular, after a brief introduction on bioactive protein drugs that have remarkable relevance for tissue engineering, this review will discuss their release mechanisms from hydrogels, their encapsulation and immobilization methods and will overview the main classes of hydrogel forming biomaterials used in vitro and in vivo to release them. Finally, an outlook on future directions and a glimpse into the current clinical developments are provided.
Thermal inkjet printing in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.	With the advantages of high throughput, digital control, and highly accurate placement of cells and biomaterial scaffold to the desired 2D and 3D locations, bioprinting has great potential to develop promising approaches in translational medicine and organ replacement. The most recent advances in organ and tissue bioprinting based on the thermal inkjet printing technology are described in this review. Bioprinting has no or little side effect to the printed mammalian cells and it can conveniently combine with gene transfection or drug delivery to the ejected living systems during the precise placement for tissue construction. With layer-by-layer assembly, 3D tissues with complex structures can be printed using scanned CT or MRI images. Vascular or nerve systems can be enabled simultaneously during the organ construction with digital control. Therefore, bioprinting is the only solution to solve this critical issue in thick and complex tissues fabrication with vascular system. Collectively, bioprinting based on thermal inkjet has great potential and broad applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. This review article introduces some important patents related to bioprinting of living systems and the applications of bioprinting in tissue engineering field.
Tissue engineering and regenerative medicine -where do we stand?	Tissue Engineering (TE) in the context of Regenerative Medicine (RM) has been hailed for many years as one of the most important topics in medicine in the twenty-first century. While the first clinically relevant TE efforts were mainly concerned with the generation of bioengineered skin substitutes, subsequently TE applications have been continuously extended to a wide variety of tissues and organs. The advent of either embryonic or mesenchymal adult stem-cell technology has fostered many of the efforts to combine this promising tool with TE approaches and has merged the field into the term Regenerative Medicine. As a typical example in translational medicine, the discovery of a new type of cells called Telocytes that have been described in many organs and have been detected by electron microscopy opens another gate to RM. Besides cell-therapy strategies, the application of gene therapy combined with TE has been investigated to generate tissues and organs. The vascularization of constructs plays a crucial role besides the matrix and cell substitutes. Therefore, novel in vivo models of vascularization have evolved allowing axial vascularization with subsequent transplantation of constructs. This article is intended to give an overview over some of the most recent developments and possible applications in RM through the perspective of TE achievements and cellular research. The synthesis of TE with innovative methods of molecular biology and stem-cell technology appears to be very promising.
Strut size and surface area effects on long-term in vivo degradation in computer designed poly(L-lactic acid) three-dimensional porous scaffolds.	Current developments in computer-aided design (CAD) and solid free-form fabrication (SFF) techniques enable fabrication of scaffolds with precisely designed architectures and mechanical properties. The present study demonstrates the effect of precisely designed three-dimensional scaffold architectures on in vivo degradation. Specifically, three types of porous poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) scaffolds with variable pore sizes, strut sizes, porosities, and surface areas fabricated by indirect SFF. In addition, one experimental group of PLLA solid cylinders was fabricated. The scaffolds and cylinders were subcutaneously implanted into mice for 6, 12 and 21 weeks. The solid cylinders exhibited a faster percentage mass loss than all porous scaffolds. Among the porous scaffolds the group with the largest strut size lost percentage mass faster than the other two groups. Strong correlations between surface area and percentage mass loss were found at 12 (R(2)=0.681) and 21 (R(2)=0.671) weeks. Scaffold porosity, however, was not significantly correlated with degradation rate. Changes in molecular weight and crystallinity also resulted in changes in the chemical structures due to degradation, and the solid cylinders had faster crystallization due to more advanced degradation than the porous scaffolds. Scaffold compressive moduli decreased with degradation, but the resulting modulus was still within the lower range of human trabecular bone even after 21 weeks. The loss in compressive moduli, however, was a complex function of both degradation and the initial scaffold architecture. This study suggests that CAD and fabrication, within a given material, can significantly influence scaffold degradation profiles.
Recellularization of decellularized human adipose-tissue-derived extracellular matrix sheets with other human cell types.	Decellularized human extracellular matrices (ECMs) are an extremely appealing biomaterial for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. In this study, we decellularized human adipose tissue, fabricated a thin ECM sheet and explored the potential of this human adipose-derived ECM sheet as a substrate to support the formation of tissues other than adipose tissue. Acellular ECM sheets were fabricated from human adipose tissue through successive physical and chemical treatments: homogenization, centrifugation, casting, freeze-drying and sodium dodecyl sulfate treatment. The ECM sheets exhibited good mechanical properties, despite their porous structure. They degraded quickly in the presence of collagenase and the degradation rate increased with the collagenase concentration in phosphate-buffered saline. Five different human cell types, covering a broad range of cells and applications (normal human dermal fibroblasts, human aortic smooth muscle cells, human chondrocytes, human umbilical vein endothelial cells and human adipose-derived stem cells), were seeded onto the ECM sheets. All the human cell types spread well, proliferated and were successfully integrated into the decellularized ECM sheet. Overall, the results suggest that recellularized ECM sheets are a promising substitute for defective or damaged human tissues.
Critical factors affecting cell encapsulation in superporous hydrogels.	We recently showed that superporous hydrogel (SPH) scaffolds promote long-term stem cell viability and cell driven mineralization when cells were seeded within the pores of pre-fabricated SPH scaffolds. The possibility of cell encapsulation within the SPH matrix during its fabrication was further explored in this study. The impact of each chemical component used in SPH fabrication and each step of the fabrication process on cell viability was systematically examined. Ammonium persulfate, an initiator, and sodium bicarbonate, the gas-generating compound, were the two components having significant toxicity toward encapsulated cells at the concentrations necessary for SPH fabrication. Cell survival rates were 55.7%  19.3% and 88.8%  9.4% after 10 min exposure to ammonium persulfate and sodium bicarbonate solutions, respectively. In addition, solution pH change via the addition of sodium bicarbonate had significant toxicity toward encapsulated cells with cell survival of only 50.3%  2.5%. Despite toxicity of chemical components and the SPH fabrication method, cells still exhibited significant overall survival rates within SPHs of 81.2%  6.8% and 67.0%  0.9%, respectively, 48 and 72 h after encapsulation. This method of cell encapsulation holds promise for use in vitro and in vivo as a scaffold material for both hydrogel matrix encapsulation and cell seeding within the pores.
Age impacts extracellular matrix metabolism in chondrocytes encapsulated in degradable hydrogels.	Encapsulation of autologous adult cartilage cells (chondrocytes) in hydrolytically degradable hydrogels may provide a clinically viable tissue engineering therapy for replacement of damaged or osteoarthritic cartilage. When designing a tissue engineering scaffold, it is crucial to evaluate adult chondrocytes due to their limited growth potential. The objective for this study was to compare extracellular matrix anabolic and catabolic metabolisms by juvenile and adult chondrocytes in hydrolytically degradable hydrogels. Cells were photo-encapsulated in bimodal degradable hydrogels composed of slow-degrading poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) and the fast-degrading copolymer oligo(lactic acid)-b-PEG-b-oligo(lactic acid) crosslinks, and cultured through four weeks. Cell density was significantly higher in constructs containing adult cells, contributing to higher glycosaminoglycan content per wet weight. However, juvenile cells exhibited higher collagen content per cell. Immunohistochemical visualization revealed cartilage-specific aggrecan and collagen II deposition by both adult and juvenile cells. Immunohistochemically stained catabolically degraded collagen fragments and western blot-detected degraded aggrecan fragments, especially those associated with an osteoarthritic state, were more abundant in constructs with adult cells. Overall, bimodal degradable hydrogel environments were supportive of viable adult cells. However, major challenges with adult cells include their reduced collagen productivity and high catabolic activity, which may impact the quality of the engineered tissues.
Three-dimensional electrospun alginate nanofiber mats via tailored charge repulsions.	The formation of 3D electrospun mat structures from alginate-polyethylene oxide (PEO) solution blends is reported. These unique architectures expand the capabilities of traditional electrospun mats for applications such as regenerative medicine, where a scaffold can help to promote tissue growth in three dimensions. The mat structures extend off the surface of the flat collector plate without the need of any modifications in the electrospinning apparatus, are self-supported when the electric field is removed, and are composed of bundles of nanofibers. A mechanism for the unique formations is proposed, based on the fiber-fiber repulsions from surface charges on the negatively charged alginate. Furthermore, the role of the electric field in the distribution of alginate within the nanofibers is discussed. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy is used to analyze the surface composition of the electrospun nanofiber mats and the data is related to cast films made in the absence of the electric field. Further techniques to tailor the 3D architecture and nanofiber morphology by changing the surface tension and relative humidity are also discussed.
Controlled heparin conjugation on electrospun poly(-caprolactone)/gelatin fibers for morphology-dependent protein delivery and enhanced cellular affinity.	Electrospun fibrous scaffolds have now been shown to possess great potential for tissue engineering applications, owing to their unique mimicry of natural extracellular matrix structure. In this study, poly(-caprolactone) and gelatin were electrospun to fabricate tissue-engineered scaffolds with three different fiber morphologies (1.0 m, 3.0 m and co-electrospun containing both 1.0 and 3.0 m diameter fibers). Subsequently, these scaffolds were conjugated with heparin to immobilize a bioactive molecule by electrostatic interactions. This study determined the quantity of heparin conjugation on the scaffolds and that the crosslinking time and the fiber morphologies govern the extent of heparin conjugation on the fibers. In order to evaluate the release capacity of the heparin-conjugated scaffolds, lysozyme was used as a model protein for conjugation. The heparin-conjugated scaffolds provided high loading efficiency and cumulative release of lysozyme with a relatively linear relationship. In addition, the release kinetics was significantly dependent on heparin conjugation and fiber morphology. This fundamental investigation into how fiber morphology and crosslinking protocols can affect the heparin binding ability of electrospun fibers is crucial for predicting the delivery of many different types of bioactive molecules from an electrospun scaffold for tissue engineering applications.
Spatial tuning of negative and positive Poisson's ratio in a multi-layer scaffold.	While elastic modulus is tunable in tissue engineering scaffolds, it is substantially more challenging to tune the Poisson's ratio of scaffolds. In certain biological applications, scaffolds with a tunable Poisson's ratio may be more suitable for emulating the behavior of native tissue mechanics. Here, we design and fabricate a scaffold, which exhibits simultaneous negative and positive Poisson's ratio behavior. Custom-made digital micro-mirror device stereolithography was used to fabricate single- and multiple-layer scaffolds using polyethylene glycol-based biomaterial. These scaffolds are composed of pore structures having special geometries, and deformation mechanisms, which can be tuned to exhibit both negative Poisson's ratio (NPR) and positive Poisson's ratio (PPR) behavior in a side-to-side or top-to-bottom configuration. Strain measurement results demonstrate that analytical deformation models and simulations accurately predict the Poisson's ratios of both the NPR and PPR regions. This hybrid Poisson's ratio property can be imparted to any photocurable material, and potentially be applicable in a variety of biomedical applications.
Rapid cell sheet detachment using spin-coated pNIPAAm films retained on surfaces by an aminopropyltriethoxysilane network.	The ability to harvest cell sheets grown on thermoresponsive polymers, such as poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (pNIPAAm), has been widely studied for use in tissue engineering applications. pNIPAAm is of special interest because of the phase change that it undergoes in a physiologically relevant temperature range. Two primary approaches have been adopted to graft pNIPAAm chains covalently onto tissue culture polystyrene dishes: electron beam irradiation and plasma polymerization. These approaches often involve non-easily accessible (e.g. e-beam) facilities and complicated procedures that have hindered most tissue culture laboratories in adopting this technology for their specific applications. In this study, we developed a simple and cost-effective approach to create thermoresponsive surfaces using commercially available pNIPAAm. Using a simple spin-coating technique, thermoresponsive thin films were deposited on glass slides or silicon wafers using pNIPAAm blended with a small amount of 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES), which enhances the retention of pNIPAAm on the surface. We found that the thermoresponsive films created using our method support cell attachment and proliferation without additional adhesive proteins as well as cell sheet detachment within minutes.
Enhancement of bone regeneration through facile surface functionalization of solid freeform fabrication-based three-dimensional scaffolds using mussel adhesive proteins.	Solid freeform fabrication (SFF) is recognized as a promising tool for creating tissue engineering scaffolds due to advantages such as superior interconnectivity and highly porous structure. Despite structural support for SFF-based three-dimensional (3-D) scaffolds that can lead to tissue regeneration, lack of cell recognition motifs and/or biochemical factors has been considered a limitation. Previously, recombinant mussel adhesive proteins (MAPs) were successfully demonstrated to be functional cell adhesion materials on various surfaces due to their peculiar adhesive properties. Herein, MAPs were applied as surface functionalization materials to SFF-based 3-D polycaprolactone/poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) scaffolds. We successfully coated MAPs onto scaffold surfaces by simply dipping the scaffolds into the MAP solution, which was confirmed through X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy analyses. Through in vitro study using human adipose tissue-derived stem cells (hADSCs), significant enhancement of cellular activities such as attachment, proliferation, and osteogenic differentiation was observed on MAP-coated 3-D scaffolds, especially on which fused arginine-glycine-aspartic acid peptides were efficiently exposed. In addition, we found that in vivo hADSC implantation with MAP-coated scaffolds enhanced bone regeneration in a rat calvarial defect model. These results collectively demonstrate that facile surface functionalization of 3-D scaffolds using MAP would be a promising strategy for successful tissue engineering applications.
In vitro feasibility study of the use of a magnetic electrospun chitosan nanofiber composite for hyperthermia treatment of tumor cells.	Hyperthermia has been reported to be an effective cancer treatment modality, as tumor cells are more temperature-sensitive than their normal counterparts. Since the ambient temperature can be increased by placing magnetic nanoparticles in an alternating magnetic field it has become of interest to incorporate these magnetic nanoparticles into biodegradable nanofibers for possible endoscopic hyperthermia treatment of malignant tumors. In this preliminary investigation we have explored various characteristics of biodegradable electrospun chitosan nanofibers containing magnetic nanoparticles prepared by different methods. These methods included: (1) E-CHS-Fe(3)O(4), with electrospun chitosan nanofibers directly immersed in a magnetic nanoparticle solution; (2) E-CHS-Fe(2+), with the electrospun chitosan nanofibers initially immersed in Fe(+2)/Fe(+3) solution, followed by chemical co-precipitation of the magnetic nanoparticles. The morphology and crystalline phase of the magnetic electrospun nanofiber matrices were determined by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, selected area electron diffraction, and X-ray diffraction spectroscopy. The magnetic characteristics were measured using a superconducting quantum interference device. The heating properties of these magnetic electrospun nanofiber matrices in an alternating magnetic field were investigated at a frequency of 750 kHz and magnetic intensity of 6.4 kW. In vitro cell incubation experiments indicated that these magnetic electrospun nanofiber matrices are non-cytotoxic and can effectively reduce tumor cell proliferation upon application of a magnetic field.
Multiple release of polyplexes of plasmids VEGF and bFGF from electrospun fibrous scaffolds towards regeneration of mature blood vessels.	Key challenges associated with the outcomes of vascular grafting (for example, to fully vascularize engineered tissues and promptly regenerate blood vessel substitutes) remain unsolved. The local availability of angiogenic growth factors is highly desirable for tissue regeneration, and plasmid loading in scaffolds represents a powerful alternative for local production of tissue-inductive factors. No attempt has been made so far to clarify the efficacy of electrospun fibers with the loading of multiple plasmids to promote tissue regeneration. In the present study, core-sheath electrospun fibers with the encapsulation of polyplexes of basic fibroblast growth factor-encoding plasmid (pbFGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor-encoding plasmid (pVEGF) were evaluated to promote the generation of mature blood vessels. In vitro release indicated a sustained release of pDNA for 4 weeks with as low as 10% initial burst release, and the release patterns from the single and twofold plasmid-loaded systems coincided. In vitro investigations on human umbilical vein endothelial cells showed that the sustained release of pDNA from fibrous mats promoted cell attachment and viability, cell transfection and protein expression, and extracellular secretion of collagen IV and laminin. The acceleration of angiogenesis was assessed in vivo after subcutaneous implantation of fibrous scaffolds, and the explants were evaluated after 1, 2 and 4 weeks' treatment by histological and immunohistochemical staining. Compared with pDNA polyplex infiltrated fibrous mats, the pDNA polyplex encapsulated fibers alleviated the inflammation reaction and enhanced the generation of microvessels. Although there was no significant difference in the total number of microvessels, the density of mature vessels was significantly enhanced by the combined treatment with both pbFGF and pVEGF compared with those incorporating individual pDNA. The integration of the core-sheath structure, DNA condensation and multiple delivery strategies provided a potential platform for scaffold fabrication to regenerate functional tissues.
The effect of pore geometry on the in vitro biological behavior of human periosteum-derived cells seeded on selective laser-melted Ti6Al4V bone scaffolds.	The specific aim of this study was to gain insight into the influence of scaffold pore size, pore shape and permeability on the in vitro proliferation and differentiation of three-dimensional (3-D) human periosteum-derived cell (hPDC) cultures. Selective laser melting (SLM) was used to produce six distinct designed geometries of Ti6Al4V scaffolds in three different pore shapes (triangular, hexagonal and rectangular) and two different pore sizes (500 m and 1000 m). All scaffolds were characterized by means of two-dimensional optical microscopy, 3-D microfocus X-ray computed tomography (micro-CT) image analysis, mechanical compression testing and computational fluid dynamical analysis. The results showed that SLM was capable of producing Ti6Al4V scaffolds with a broad range of morphological and mechanical properties. The in vitro study showed that scaffolds with a lower permeability gave rise to a significantly higher number of cells attached to the scaffolds after seeding. Qualitative analysis by means of live/dead staining and scanning electron micrography showed a circular cell growth pattern which was independent of the pore size and shape. This resulted in pore occlusion which was found to be the highest on scaffolds with 500 m hexagonal pores. Interestingly, pore size but not pore shape was found to significantly influence the growth of hPDC on the scaffolds, whereas the differentiation of hPDC was dependent on both pore shape and pore size. The results showed that, for SLM-produced Ti6Al4V scaffolds with specific morphological and mechanical properties, a functional graded scaffold will contribute to enhanced cell seeding and at the same time can maintain nutrient transport throughout the whole scaffold during in vitro culturing by avoiding pore occlusion.
Regulation of mesenchymal stem cell differentiation and insulin secretion by differential expression of Pdx-1.	In recent years, major effort has been made to differentiate embryonic stem cells, pancreatic ductal epithelial multipotent progenitor cells, and bone marrow stem cells into insulin secreting cells. Our previous work has also demonstrated the feasibility of inducing mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) to insulin secreting cells through overexpression of Pdx-1, a pancreas and islet-specific transcription factor that plays a major role in differentiation of islet -cells during development (Yuan et al. in Mol Biol Rep 37:4023-4031, 2010). However, the levels of insulin secretion among these differentiated MSC were quite variable. The purpose of this study is to address the issue whether the insulin secretion level from the differentiated MSC lines are determined by the expression level of the Pdx-1 transgene. To do so, we have generated several differentiated MSC lines with stable transfection of the Pdx-1 gene. Using RT-PCR analysis and insulin secretion assay, we have analyzed Pdx-1 mRNA levels and insulin secretion from these stable MSC lines. Our results showed that Pdx-1 expression is absolutely required for the differentiation of MSC lines to insulin secreting cell lines. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the level of Pdx-1 expression is closely correlated with level of insulin mRNA and insulin secretion level in differentiated MSC stable cell lines. These findings suggest that the level of Pdx-1 expression plays a key role in induction of MSCs to insulin secreting cells.
Engineered endothelial cell adhesion via VCAM1 and E-selectin antibody-presenting alginate hydrogels.	Materials that adhere to the endothelial cell (EC) lining of blood vessels may be useful for treating vascular injury. Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), such as endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (E-selectin) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM1), modulate EC-leukocyte interactions. In this study, we mimicked cell-cell interactions by seeding cells on alginate hydrogels modified with antibodies against E-selectin and VCAM1, which are upregulated during inflammation. ECs were activated with interleukin-1 to increase CAM expression and subsequently seeded onto hydrogels. The strength of cell adhesion onto gels was assessed via a centrifugation assay. Strong, cooperative EC adhesion was observed on hydrogels presenting a 1:1 ratio of anti-VCAM1:anti-E-selectin. Cell adhesion was stronger on dual functionalized gels than on gels modified with anti-VCAM1, anti-E-selectin or the arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) peptide alone. Anti-VCAM1:anti-E-selectin-modified hydrogels may be engineered to adhere the endothelium cooperatively.
Next-generation regeneration: the hope and hype of lung stem cell research.	Research discoveries in the fields of stem cell biology and regenerative medicine are beginning to advance and refine our understanding of lung injury and repair. Although these emerging studies offer unprecedented opportunities to develop novel therapies for a variety of lung diseases, the quickening pace of work in this nascent field also makes it difficult to discern hope from hype when addressing the pleas of patients eager for clinical translation or when seeking information on the risk versus reward of participation in clinical trials. This perspective provides an overview of the latest advances in lung-related stem cell research and places the new discoveries in a historical context. Established, lineage-restricted epithelial progenitors of the conducting airways and gas-exchanging alveoli are briefly reviewed, and controversial, newly proposed tissue-specific candidate lung stem/progenitor cells with broader differentiation repertoire are introduced. Exogenous derivation of lung epithelia from embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells is also presented as an alternative method for engineering lung tissue de novo in culture.
Muscle on a chip: in vitro contractility assays for smooth and striated muscle.	To evaluate the viability of a muscle tissue, it is essential to measure the tissue's contractile performance as well as to control its structure. Accurate contractility data can aid in development of more effective and safer drugs. This can be accomplished with a robust in vitro contractility assay applicable to various types of muscle tissue.
Femtosecond laser ablation enhances cell infiltration into three-dimensional electrospun scaffolds.	Electrospun scaffolds are used extensively in tissue-engineering applications as they offer a cell-friendly microenvironment. However, one major limitation is the dense fibers, small pore size and consequently poor cell infiltration. Here, we employ a femtosecond (FS) laser system to ablate and create microscale features on electrospun poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) nanofibrous scaffolds. Upon determining the ablation parameters, we pattern structured holes with diameters of 50, 100 and 200 m and spacings of 50 and 200 m between adjacent holes on the scaffolds. The elastic moduli of ablated scaffolds decrease with the decrease in spacing and the increase in hole size. Cells seeded on the laser-ablated scaffolds exhibit different morphology but similar proliferation rate when compared with control (non-ablated) scaffold. Furthermore, animal studies indicate that ablated scaffolds facilitate endothelial cell ingrowth as well as drastically increase M2 macrophage and overall cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that FS laser ablation can be used to increase cell infiltration into nanofibrous scaffolds. Laser ablation not only can create desired features in micrometer length scale but also presents a new approach in the fabrication of three-dimensional porous constructs for tissue engineering.
Human adipose stem cells maintain proliferative, synthetic and multipotential properties when suspension cultured as self-assembling spheroids.	Adipose-derived stromal/stem cells (ASCs) have been gaining recognition as an extremely versatile cell source for tissue engineering. The usefulness of ASCs in biofabrication is further enhanced by our demonstration of the unique properties of these cells when they are cultured as three-dimensional cellular aggregates or spheroids. As described herein, three-dimensional formulations, or self-assembling ASC spheroids develop their own extracellular matrix that serves to increase the robustness of the cells to mechanical stresses. The composition of the extracellular matrix can be altered based on the external environment of the spheroids and these constructs can be grown in a reproducible manner and to a consistent size. The spheroid formulation helps preserve the viability and developmental plasticity of ASCs even under defined, serum-free media conditions. For the first time, we show that multiple generations of adherent ASCs produced from these spheroids retain their ability to differentiate into multiple cell/tissue types. These demonstrated properties support the idea that culture-expanded ASCs are an excellent candidate cellular material for 'organ printing'-the approach of developing complex tissue structures from a standardized cell 'ink' or cell formulation.
Two-photon polymerization-generated and micromolding-replicated 3D scaffolds for peripheral neural tissue engineering applications.	In this study, we explore the production of well-defined macroscopic scaffolds with two-photon polymerization (2PP) and their use as neural tissue engineering scaffolds. We also demonstrate that these 3D scaffolds can be replicated via soft lithography, which increases production efficiency. Photopolymerizable polylactic acid (PLA) was used to produce scaffolds by 2PP and soft lithography. We assessed the biocompatibility of these scaffolds using an SH-SY5Y human neuronal cell line and primary cultured rat Schwann cells (of direct relevance to the repair of nerve injuries). A Comet assay with SH-SY5Y human neuronal cells revealed minimal DNA damage after washing the photocured material for 7 days in ethanol. Additionally, thin films and 3D scaffolds of the photocured PLA sustained a high degree of Schwann cell purity (99%), enabled proliferation over 7 days and provided a suitable substrate for supporting Schwann cell adhesion such that bi-polar and tri-polar morphologies were observed. Evidence of orthogonally aligned and organized actin thin filaments and the formation of focal contacts were observed for the majority of Schwann cells. In summary, this work supports the use of PLA as a suitable material for supporting Schwann cell growth and in turn use of 3D soft lithography for the synthesis of neural scaffolds in nerve repair.
A plant virus substrate induces early upregulation of BMP2 for rapid bone formation.	Many nanoscale materials have been developed to investigate the effects on stem cell differentiations via topographical and chemical cues for applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. The use of plant viruses as cell supporting substrates has been of particular interest due to the rapid induction of bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) towards osteogenic cells. In this study, the role of Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) and its early effects on osteoinduction with particular emphasis on the regulation of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2) was examined. We observed that the cells on the virus substrate immediately aggregated and formed bone-like nodules within 24 hours. An immediate increase in BMP2 gene and protein expression for cells on the TMV substrate was observed within 8 hours of osteoinduction. Moreover, BMP2 expression was highly localized to cells within the cell aggregates. This enhanced differentiation only occurred when TMV was coated on a solid support but not upon adding the virus to the media solution. Taken together, the results from this study highlight the potential of virus-based nanomaterials to promote endogenous BMP2 production which may prove to be a unique approach to studying the regulatory mechanisms involved in early osteoblastic differentiation.
Modifying three-dimensional scaffolds from novel nanocomposite materials using dissolvable porogen particles for use in liver tissue engineering.	Although hepatocytes have a remarkable regenerative power, the rapidity of acute liver failure makes liver transplantation the only definitive treatment. Attempts to incorporate engineered three-dimensional liver tissue in bioartificial liver devices or in implantable tissue constructs, to treat or bridge patients to self-recovery, were met with many challenges, amongst which is to find suitable polymeric matrices. We studied the feasibility of utilising nanocomposite polymers in three-dimensional scaffolds for hepatocytes.
In vivo tissue engineering chamber supports human induced pluripotent stem cell survival and rapid differentiation.	Pluripotent stem cells are a potential source of autologous cells for cell and tissue regenerative therapies. They have the ability to renew indefinitely while retaining the capacity to differentiate into all cell types in the body. With developments in cell therapy and tissue engineering these cells may provide an option for treating tissue loss in organs which do not repair themselves. Limitations to clinical translation of pluripotent stem cells include poor cell survival and low cell engraftment in vivo and the risk of teratoma formation when the cells do survive through implantation. In this study, implantation of human induced-pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells, suspended in Matrigel, into an in vivo vascularized tissue engineering chamber in nude rats resulted in substantial engraftment of the cells into the highly vascularized rat tissues formed within the chamber. Differentiation of cells in the chamber environment was shown by teratoma formation, with all three germ lineages evident within 4 weeks. The rate of teratoma formation was higher with partially differentiated hiPS cells (as embryoid bodies) compared to undifferentiated hiPS cells (100% versus 60%). In conclusion, the in vivo vascularized tissue engineering chamber supports the survival through implantation of human iPS cells and their differentiated progeny, as well as a novel platform for rapid teratoma assay screening for pluripotency.
Expression of cardiac proteins in neonatal cardiomyocytes on PGS/fibrinogen core/shell substrate for Cardiac tissue engineering.	Heart failure due to myocardial infarction remains the leading cause of death worldwide owing to the inability of myocardial tissue regeneration. The aim of this study is to develop a core/shell fibrous cardiac patch having desirable mechanical properties and biocompatibility to engineer the infarcted myocardium.
Engineering bone tissue from human embryonic stem cells.	In extensive bone defects, tissue damage and hypoxia lead to cell death, resulting in slow and incomplete healing. Human embryonic stem cells (hESC) can give rise to all specialized lineages found in healthy bone and are therefore uniquely suited to aid regeneration of damaged bone. We show that the cultivation of hESC-derived mesenchymal progenitors on 3D osteoconductive scaffolds in bioreactors with medium perfusion leads to the formation of large and compact bone constructs. Notably, the implantation of engineered bone in immunodeficient mice for 8 wk resulted in the maintenance and maturation of bone matrix, without the formation of teratomas that is consistently observed when undifferentiated hESCs are implanted, alone or in bone scaffolds. Our study provides a proof of principle that tissue-engineering protocols can be successfully applied to hESC progenitors to grow bone grafts for use in basic and translational studies.
Tubular hydrogels of circumferentially aligned nanofibers to encapsulate and orient vascular cells.	There is a great clinical need for tissue engineered blood vessels that could be used to replace or bypass damaged arteries. The success of such grafts will depend strongly on their ability to mimic the cellular and matrix organization found in native arteries, but currently available cell scaffolds such as electrospun fibers or hydrogels lack the ability to simultaneously encapsulate and align cells. Our laboratory has recently developed liquid crystalline solutions of peptide amphiphile nanofibers that form aligned domains at exceedingly low concentrations (<1 wt%), and can be trapped as gels with macroscopic alignment using low shear rates and ionic crosslinking. We describe here the use of these systems to fabricate tubes with macroscopic circumferential alignment and demonstrate their potential as arterial cell scaffolds. The nanofibers in these tubes were circumferentially aligned by applying small amounts of shear in a custom built flow chamber prior to gelation. Small angle X-ray scattering confirmed that the direction of nanofiber alignment was the same as the direction of shear flow. We also show the encapsulation of smooth muscle cells during the fabrication process without compromising cell viability. After two days in culture the encapsulated cells oriented their long axis in the direction of nanofiber alignment thus mimicking the circumferential alignment seen in native arteries. Cell density roughly doubled after 12 days demonstrating the scaffold's ability to facilitate necessary graft maturation. Since these nanofiber gels are composed of >99% water by weight, the cells have abundant room for proliferation and remodeling. In contrast to previously reported arterial cell scaffolds, this new material can encapsulate cells and direct cellular organization without the requirement of external stimuli or gel compaction.
Combining adult stem cells and polymeric devices for tissue engineering in infarcted myocardium.	An increasing number of studies in cardiac cell therapy have provided encouraging results for cardiac repair. Adult stem cells may overcome ethical and availability concerns, with the additional advantages, in some cases, to allow autologous grafts to be performed. However, the major problems of cell survival, cell fate determination and engraftment after transplantation, still remain. Tissue-engineering strategies combining scaffolds and cells have been developed and have to be adapted for each type of application to enhance stem cell function. Scaffold properties required for cardiac cell therapy are here discussed. New tissue engineering advances that may be implemented in combination with adult stem cells for myocardial infarction therapy are also presented. Biomaterials not only provide a 3D support for the cells but may also mimic the structural architecture of the heart. Using hydrogels or particulate systems, the biophysical and biochemical microenvironments of transplanted cells can also be controlled. Advances in biomaterial engineering have permitted the development of sophisticated drug-releasing materials with a biomimetic 3D support that allow a better control of the microenvironment of transplanted cells.
Controlling the contractile strength of engineered cardiac muscle by hierarchal tissue architecture.	The heart is a muscular organ with a wrapping, laminar structure embedded with neural and vascular networks, collagen fibrils, fibroblasts, and cardiac myocytes that facilitate contraction. We hypothesized that these non-muscle components may have functional benefit, serving as important structural alignment cues in inter- and intra-cellular organization of cardiac myocytes. Previous studies have demonstrated that alignment of engineered myocardium enhances calcium handling, but how this impacts actual force generation remains unclear. Quantitative assays are needed to determine the effect of alignment on contractile function and muscle physiology. To test this, micropatterned surfaces were used to build 2-dimensional myocardium from neonatal rat ventricular myocytes with distinct architectures: confluent isotropic (serving as the unaligned control), confluent anisotropic, and 20m spaced, parallel arrays of multicellular myocardial fibers. We combined image analysis of sarcomere orientation with muscular thin film contractile force assays in order to calculate the peak sarcomere-generated stress as a function of tissue architecture. Here we report that increasing peak systolic stress in engineered cardiac tissues corresponds with increasing sarcomere alignment. This change is larger than would be anticipated from enhanced calcium handling and increased uniaxial alignment alone. These results suggest that boundary conditions (heterogeneities) encoded in the extracellular space can regulate muscle tissue function, and that structural organization and cytoskeletal alignment are critically important for maximizing peak force generation.
Tissue engineering the monosynaptic circuit of the stretch reflex arc with co-culture of embryonic motoneurons and proprioceptive sensory neurons.	The sensory circuit of the stretch reflex arc is composed of intrafusal muscle fibers and their innervating proprioceptive neurons that convert mechanical information regarding muscle length and tension into action potentials that synapse onto the homonymous motoneurons in the ventral spinal cord which innervate the extrafusal fibers of the same muscle. To date, the invitro synaptic connection between proprioceptive sensory neurons and spinal motoneurons has not been demonstrated. A functional invitro system demonstrating this connection would enable the understanding of feedback by the integration of sensory input into the spinal reflex arc. Here we report a co-culture of rat embryonic motoneurons and proprioceptive sensory neurons from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in a defined serum-free medium on a synthetic silane substrate (DETA). Furthermore, we have demonstrated functional synapse formation in the co-culture by immunocytochemistry and electrophysiological analysis. This work will be valuable for enabling invitro model systems for the study of spinal motor control and related pathologies such as spinal cord injury, muscular dystrophy and spasticity by improving our understanding of the integration of the mechanosensitive feedback mechanism.
"Face-lifting" and "make-up" for microorganisms: layer-by-layer polyelectrolyte nanocoating.	Layer-by-layer encapsulation of living biological cells and other microorganisms via sequential adsorption of oppositely charged functional nanoscale components is a promising instrument for engineering cells with enhanced properties and artificial microorganisms. Such nanoarchitectural shells assembled in mild aqueous conditions provide cells with additional abilities, widening their functionality and applications in artificial spore formation, whole-cell biosensors, and fabrication of three-dimensional multicellular clusters.
Fabrication and characterization of three-dimensional electrospun scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	When traumatic injury, tumor removal, or disease results in significant bone loss, reconstructive surgery is required. Bone grafts are used in orthopedic reconstructive procedures to provide mechanical support and promote bone regeneration. In this study, we applied a heat sintering technique to fabricate 3D electrospun scaffolds that were used to evaluate effects of mineralization and fiber orientation on scaffold strength. We electrospun PLLA/gelatin scaffolds with a layer of PDLA and heat sintered them into three-dimensional cylindrical scaffolds. Scaffolds were mineralized by incubation in 10 simulated body fluid for 6, 24, and 48 h to evaluate the effect of mineralization on scaffolds compressive mechanical properties. The effects of heat sintering hydroxyapatite (HA) microparticles directly to the scaffolds on mineral deposition, distribution and mechanical properties of the scaffolds were also evaluated. We found that orientation of the fibers had little effect on the compressive mechanical properties of the scaffolds. However, increasing the mineralization times resulted in an increase in compressive mechanical properties. Also, the direct addition of HA microparticles had no effect on the scaffold mechanical properties, but had a significant effect on the mineral deposition on PLLA/gelatin scaffolds.
Cellular infiltration on nanofibrous scaffolds using a modified electrospinning technique.	Electrospinning is currently used to fabricate nanofibrous scaffolds for tissue engineering applications. The major problem of these scaffolds is their intrinsically two-dimensional nature which inhibits cellular migration and in-growth. In this study, we have introduced a modified setup of electrospinning to produce three-dimensional nanofibrous scaffolds which allows improved infiltration of cells. An array of focused halogen light bulbs was used to localize the heat in the path of electrospun jet near the collector. The fabricated mats were then seeded with cells in order to evaluate migration and infiltration. After 14 days of culture, a homogenous distribution of cells was observed throughout the scaffolds and showed the three-dimensional architecture of nanofibrous mats. By this novel and simple setup, the prepared electrospun mats will allow the seeded cells to obtain a three-dimensional arrangement which is ideal for tissue engineering applications.
Preservation of myocardial structure is enhanced by pim-1 engineering of bone marrow cells.	Bone marrow-derived cells to treat myocardial injury improve cardiac function and support beneficial cardiac remodeling. However, survival of stem cells is limited due to low proliferation of transferred cells.
Nanofibrous poly(lactide-co-glycolide) membranes loaded with diamond nanoparticles as promising substrates for bone tissue engineering.	Nanofibrous scaffolds loaded with bioactive nanoparticles are promising materials for bone tissue engineering.
Mass transfer trends occurring in engineered ex vivo tissue scaffolds.	In vivo the vasculature provides an effective delivery system for cellular nutrients; however, artificial scaffolds have no such mechanism, and the ensuing limitations in mass transfer result in limited regeneration. In these investigations, the regional mass transfer properties that occur through a model scaffold derived from the human umbilical vein (HUV) were assessed. Our aim was to define the heterogeneous behavior associated with these regional variations, and to establish if different decellularization technologies can modulate transport conditions to improve microenvironmental conditions that enhance cell integration. The effect of three decellularization methods [Triton X-100 (TX100), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and acetone/ethanol (ACE/EtOH)] on mass transfer, cellular migration, proliferation, and metabolic activity were assessed. Results show that regional variation in tissue structure and composition significantly affects both mass transfer and cell function. ACE/EtOH decellularization was shown to increase albumin mass flux through the intima and proximate-medial region (0-250 m) when compared with sections decellularized with TX100 or SDS; although, mass flux remained constant over all regions of the full tissue thickness when using TX100. Scaffolds decellularized with TX100 were shown to promote cell migration up to 146% further relative to SDS decellularized samples. These results show that depending on scaffold derivation and expectations for cellular integration, specificities of the decellularization chemistry affect the scaffold molecular architecture resulting in variable effects on mass transfer and cellular response.
Microvascular guidance: a challenge to support the development of vascularised tissue engineering construct.	The guidance of endothelial cell organization into a capillary network has been a long-standing challenge in tissue engineering. Some research efforts have been made to develop methods to promote capillary networks inside engineered tissue constructs. Capillary and vascular networks that would mimic blood microvessel function can be used to subsequently facilitate oxygen and nutrient transfer as well as waste removal. Vascularization of engineering tissue construct is one of the most favorable strategies to overpass nutrient and oxygen supply limitation, which is often the major hurdle in developing thick and complex tissue and artificial organ. This paper addresses recent advances and future challenges in developing three-dimensional culture systems to promote tissue construct vascularization allowing mimicking blood microvessel development and function encountered in vivo. Bioreactors systems that have been used to create fully vascularized functional tissue constructs will also be outlined.
ACI and MACI.	Regenerative procedures aim to recreate a hyaline-like tissue, thus restoring a biologically and biomechanically valid articular surface with durable clinical results. Autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) has been developed two decades ago, and both the production of a hyaline-like articular surface and a satisfactory clinical outcome have been documented at medium-long follow-up. Bioengineering technology further improved this regenerative treatment approach to include matrix-assisted ACI (MACI) techniques. These procedures have been introduced in the clinical practice one decade ago, showing similar results while at the same time overcoming most of the concerns related to the first-generation ACI. The use of scaffolds to create a cartilage-like tissue in a three-dimensional culture system allows for the optimization of the procedure from both the biological and surgical point of view. However, despite thousands of treated patients and many published studies suggesting good clinical results and durability of these procedures, the properties of healthy, normal articular cartilage are still unmatched by any available substitute. Both indications and results of these substitutes are still controversial. The role of many variables that may influence the final outcome still need to be clarified to further improve the potential benefits of these biological regenerative procedures.
Effect of endothelial differentiated adipose-derived stem cells on vascularity and osteogenesis in poly(D,L-lactide) scaffolds in vivo.	Prevascularization of engineered bony constructs can potentially improve in vivo viability. However, the effect of endothelial cells on osteogenesis is unknown when placed in poly(D,L-lactide) (PLA) scaffolds alone. Adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) have the ability to differentiate into both osteoblasts and endothelial cells by culture in specific media. We hypothesized that ASC-derived endothelial cells would improve vascularity with minimal contribution to bone formation when placed in scaffold alone. ASCs were successfully differentiated into endothelial cells (ASC-Endo) and osteoblasts (ASC-Osteo) using media supplemented with vascular endothelial growth factor and bone morphogenic protein 2, respectively. Tissue-engineered constructs were created with PLA matrices containing no cells (control), undifferentiated ASCs (ASCs), osteogenic-differentiated ASCs (ASC-Osteo), or endothelial differentiated ASCs (ASC-Endo), and these constructs were evaluated in critical-size Lewis rat calvarial defect model (n = 34). Eight weeks after implantation, the bone volume and microvessel population of bony constructs were evaluated by micro-computed tomography analysis and histologic staining. Bone volumes for ASCs and ASC-Osteo constructs, 0.7 and 0.91 mm(3), respectively, were statistically greater than that for ASC-Endo, 0.28 mm(3) (P < 0.05). There was no statistical difference between the PLA control (0.5 mm(3)) and ASC-Endo (0.28 mm(3)) constructs in bone formation. The percent area of microvessels within constructs was highest in the ASC-Endo group, although it did not reach statistical significance (0.065). Prevascularization of PLA scaffold with ASC-Endo cells will not increase bone formation by itself but may be used as a cell source for improving vascularization and potentially improving existing osteoblast function.
Coculture of vascular endothelial cells and adipose-derived stem cells as a source for bone engineering.	The interaction between vascular endothelial cells (VECs) and osteoblasts (OBs) is the focus of this recent research. Vascular endothelial cells secrete bone morphogenetic protein, which promotes OB differentiation and stimulates OBs and their precursor cells to secrete vascular endothelial growth factor. Vascular endothelial growth factor is important in angiogenesis and angiopoiesis. Cloning studies have shown that adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) have the potential to differentiate into fat, bone, cartilage, and skeletal and smooth muscle cells, among others. Adipose-derived stem cells can express multiple growth factors, including vascular endothelial growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor. Our study examined the influence of coculturing VECs and ADSCs on osteogenic differentiation. Cord blood-derived VECs and ADSCs were isolated from rats and characterized with immunofluorescence staining and morphological observation. Coculture of third-generation ADSCs and VECs was induced for 6 weeks. Cell growth was analyzed using a modified MTT assay. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and osteocalcin (OC) was analyzed using immunofluorescence staining. When ADSCs and VECs were cocultured, the absorbance of cells gradually increased, reaching a peak on day 12. The highest absorbance was seen in a coculture system with a ratio of ADSCs and VECs of 1:1. The secretion of ALP and OC gradually increased in these cells and was significantly higher than controls (P < 0.01). Coculturing of ADSCs and VECs at a 1:1 ratio gave the highest secretion of ALP and OC at every time point, and was significantly higher than other groups (P < 0.01). Our results indicated that ADSCs can be induced to osteogenic differentiation by VECs in vitro, suggesting a coculture system of VECs and ADSC as a novel source of cells for bone engineering.
Tailoring layer-by-layer capsules for biomedical applications.	Polymeric capsules have attracted great interest as versatile carrier systems in the area of medicine and pharmaceutics. These capsules are made by stepwise layer-by-layer adsorption of polymers onto a template core, which can be removed to produce hollow capsules. The cavity of these capsules can host various cargo molecules while the capsules' wall can be functionalized towards desired properties by embedding specific moieties into the multilayers. Tuning of the capsules' properties influences their interaction with cells and tissues and paves the way towards the development of stimuli-responsive capsules releasing their payload at a target site. In this review, we describe the generation of tailored layer-by-layer capsules and focus hereby on numerous potential applications of this multifunctional delivery platform in biomedical settings. We review the current status in the field and discuss the opportunities, as well as the hurdles, to be overcome to successfully transfer this technology to therapeutic and diagnostic applications.
Deep and superficial keloid fibroblasts contribute differentially to tissue phenotype in a novel in vivo model of keloid scar.	Keloids are thick fibrous scars that are refractory to treatment and unique to humans. The lack of keloid animal models has hampered development of effective therapies. The authors' goal was to develop an animal model of keloids using grafted engineered skin substitutes composed of keloid-derived cells. To demonstrate the model's utility, differences between deep and superficial keloid fibroblasts were investigated.
Human adipose stem cells:  current clinical applications.	Adipose-derived stem cells are multipotent cells that can easily be extracted from adipose tissue, are capable of expansion in vitro, and have the capacity to differentiate into multiple cell lineages, which have the potential for use in regenerative medicine. However, several issues need to be studied to determine safe human use. For example, there are questions related to isolation and purification of adipose-derived stem cells, their effect on tumor growth, and the enforcement of U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations. Numerous studies have been published, with the interest in the potential for regenerative medicine continually growing. Several clinical trials using human adipose stem cell therapy are currently being performed around the world, and there has been a rapid evolution and expansion of their number. The purpose of this article was to review the current published basic science evidence and ongoing clinical trials involving the use of adipose-derived stem cells in plastic surgery and in regenerative medicine in general. The results of the studies and clinical trials using adipose-derived stem cells reported in this review seem to be promising not only in plastic surgery but also in a wide variety of other specialties. Nevertheless, those reported showed disparity in the way adipose-derived stem cells were used. Further basic science experimental studies with standardized protocols and larger randomized trials need to be performed to ensure safety and efficacy of adipose-derived stem cells use in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines.
Dissociation of embryonic kidney followed by re-aggregation as a method for chimeric analysis.	This chapter presents three methods for re-constructing mouse foetal kidney tissue from simple suspensions of cells. These techniques are very useful for a number of purposes: (1) they allow the production of fine-grained chimaeras in which cell autonomy of mutations can be tested, (2) they provide an environment that allows the renal differentiation potential of stem cells to be assessed, and (3) they are an excellent system in which to study the mechanisms of self-organization. Each of the methods described here begins with disaggregation of embryonic mouse kidneys, followed by re-aggregation and culture; the main differences are in the culture methods, each of which has advantages for particular purposes.
Bioengineered matrices--part 2: focal adhesion, integrins, and the fibroblast effect.	Initial efforts at biologic skin replacement strategies were mainly directed toward keratinocyte regeneration and epithelial replacement. It soon became evident that without a good dermal scaffold, the long-term efficacy of epithelial replacement was very limited. Further studies have focused on matrix replacement predominantly involving collagen frameworks with or without cellular additions. The fibroblast is central to the process of dermal regeneration and to the success of biologic matrix design. The sequence of cellular focal adhesion, integrin phosphorylated activation, intracellular and extracellular signaling, cytoskeletal activation, changes in cell morphology, and cytokine growth factor interaction are all important in influencing cell proliferation, cell spreading, neocollagenesis, and collagen translocation. A basic acellular matrix with chemical composition and correct physical structure (pore size and resistance) that takes cognizance of this sequence of matrix deposition and fibroblast functionality should be successful in promoting intrinsic healing and dermal replacement.
Hair organ regeneration via the bioengineered hair follicular unit transplantation.	Organ regenerative therapy aims to reproduce fully functional organs to replace organs that have been lost or damaged as a result of disease, injury, or aging. For the fully functional regeneration of ectodermal organs, a concept has been proposed in which a bioengineered organ is developed by reproducing the embryonic processes of organogenesis. Here, we show that a bioengineered hair follicle germ, which was reconstituted with embryonic skin-derived epithelial and mesenchymal cells and ectopically transplanted, was able to develop histologically correct hair follicles. The bioengineered hair follicles properly connected to the host skin epithelium by intracutaneous transplantation and reproduced the stem cell niche and hair cycles. The bioengineered hair follicles also autonomously connected with nerves and the arrector pili muscle at the permanent region and exhibited piloerection ability. Our findings indicate that the bioengineered hair follicles could restore physiological hair functions and could be applicable to surgical treatments for alopecia.
Cell technologies and the development of skin substitutes]	Large skin lesions might be of different cause and sometime resistant to the conventional and surgical treatment. For many years, skin grafting used to serve one of the most important methods to treat large and deep skin lesions. However, a limited availability of the substrate for transplantation restricts wider application of the approach. Utilization of wound covers and skin replacements of various types (including synthetic, biological and biosynthetic ones) provides an alternative. Skin substitutes--biosynthetic covers of the complex structure--constitute the most important niche in a wide spectrum of wound covers developed and actively utilized by today. Cell substrates used in the former include dermal fibroblasts, neonatal foreskin fibroblasts and keratinocytes. In the current review, key properties of the modern skin substitutes, structure features of the most widespread types. and principle of the work with the particular cell types are analyzed. Comparative analysis of the efficiency of wound covers is provided.
Macromolecular crowding directs extracellular matrix organization and mesenchymal stem cell behavior.	Microenvironments of biological cells are dominated in vivo by macromolecular crowding and resultant excluded volume effects. This feature is absent in dilute in vitro cell culture. Here, we induced macromolecular crowding in vitro by using synthetic macromolecular globules of nm-scale radius at physiological levels of fractional volume occupancy. We quantified the impact of induced crowding on the extracellular and intracellular protein organization of human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) via immunocytochemistry, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and AFM-enabled nanoindentation. Macromolecular crowding in extracellular culture media directly induced supramolecular assembly and alignment of extracellular matrix proteins deposited by cells, which in turn increased alignment of the intracellular actin cytoskeleton. The resulting cell-matrix reciprocity further affected adhesion, proliferation, and migration behavior of MSCs. Macromolecular crowding can thus aid the design of more physiologically relevant in vitro studies and devices for MSCs and other cells, by increasing the fidelity between materials synthesized by cells in vivo and in vitro.
Intervertebral disc regeneration or repair with biomaterials and stem cell therapy--feasible or fiction?	The "gold standard" for treatment of intervertebral disc herniations and degenerated discs is still spinal fusion, corresponding to the saying "no disc - no pain". Mechanical prostheses, which are currently implanted, do only have medium outcome success and have relatively high re-operation rates. Here, we discuss some of the biological intervertebral disc replacement approaches, which can be subdivided into at least two classes in accordance to the two different tissue types, the nucleus pulposus (NP) and the annulus fibrosus (AF). On the side of NP replacement hydrogels have been extensively tested in vitro and in vivo. However, these gels are usually a trade-off between cell biocompatibility and load-bearing capacity, hydrogels which fulfill both are still lacking. On the side of AF repair much less is known and the question of the anchoring of implants is still to be addressed. New hope for cell therapy comes from developmental biology investigations on the existence of intervertebral disc progenitor cells, which would be an ideal cell source for cell therapy. Also notochordal cells (remnants of the embryonic notochord) have been recently pushed back into focus since these cells have regenerative potential and can activate disc cells. Growth factor treatment and molecular therapies could be less problematic. The biological solutions for NP and AF replacement are still more fiction than fact. However, tissue engineering just scratched the tip of the iceberg, more satisfying solutions are yet to be added to the biomedical pipeline.
Composite hydrogels for nucleus pulposus tissue engineering.	Tissue engineering offers a paradigm shift in the treatment of back pain. Engineered intervertebral discs could replace degenerated tissue and overcome the limitations of current treatments, which substantially alter the biomechanical properties of the spine. The centre of the disc, the nucleus pulposus, is an amorphous gel with a large bound water content and it can resist substantial compressive loads. Due to similarities in their compositions, hydrogels have frequently been considered as substitutes for the nucleus pulposus. However, there has been limited work characterising the time-dependent mechanical behaviour of hydrogel scaffolds for nucleus pulposus tissue engineering. Poroelastic behaviour, which plays a key role in nutrient transport, is of particular importance. Here, we investigate the time-dependent mechanical properties of gelatin and agar hydrogels and of gelatin-agar composites. The time-dependent properties of these hydrogels are explored using viscoelastic and poroelastic frameworks. Several gel formulations demonstrate comparable equilibrium elastic behaviour to the nucleus pulposus under unconfined compression, but permeability values that are much greater than those of the native tissue. A range of time-dependent responses are observed in the composite gels examined, presenting the opportunity for targeted design of custom hydrogels with combinations of mechanical properties optimized for tissue engineering applications.
Addition of hyaluronic acid improves cellular infiltration and promotes early-stage chondrogenesis in a collagen-based scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering.	The response of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to a matrix largely depends on the composition as well as the extrinsic mechanical and morphological properties of the substrate to which they adhere to. Collagen-glycosaminoglycan (CG) scaffolds have been extensively used in a range of tissue engineering applications with great success. This is due in part to the presence of the glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in complementing the biofunctionality of collagen. In this context, the overall goal of this study was to investigate the effect of two GAG types: chondroitin sulphate (CS) and hyaluronic acid (HyA) on the mechanical and morphological characteristics of collagen-based scaffolds and subsequently on the differentiation of rat MSCs in vitro. Morphological characterisation revealed that the incorporation of HyA resulted in a significant reduction in scaffold mean pore size (93.9 m) relative to collagen-CS (CCS) scaffolds (136.2 m). In addition, the collagen-HyA (CHyA) scaffolds exhibited greater levels of MSC infiltration in comparison to the CCS scaffolds. Moreover, these CHyA scaffolds showed significant acceleration of early stage gene expression of SOX-9 (approximately 60-fold higher, p<0.01) and collagen type II (approximately 35-fold higher, p<0.01) as well as cartilage matrix production (7-fold higher sGAG content) in comparison to CCS scaffolds by day 14. Combining their ability to stimulate MSC migration and chondrogenesis in vitro, these CHyA scaffolds show great potential as appropriate matrices for promoting cartilage tissue repair.
Dentin regeneration using deciduous pulp stem/progenitor cells.	Reparative dentin formation is essential for maintaining the integrity of dentin structure during disease or trauma. In this study, we investigated stem/progenitor cell-based tissue engineering for dentin regeneration in a large animal model. Porcine deciduous pulp stem/progenitor cells (PDPSCs) were mixed with a beta-tricalcium phosphate (-TCP) scaffold for dentin regeneration. Different concentrations of PDPSCs were tested to determine the optimal density for dentin regeneration. Aliquots of 510(5) PDPSCs in 1 mL resulted in the highest number of cells attached to the scaffold and the greatest alkaline phosphatase activity. We labeled PDPSCs with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and used the optimal cell numbers mixed with -TCP to repair pulp chamber roof defects in the premolars of swine. Four weeks after transplantation, GFP-positive PDPSCs were observed in PDPSC-embedded scaffold constructs. At 16 weeks after transplantation, the PDPSCs mixed with -TCP significantly regenerated the dentin-like structures and nearly completely restored the pulp chamber roof defects. This study demonstrated that the PDPSC/scaffold construct was useful in direct pulp-capping and provides pre-clinical evidence for stem/progenitor cell-based dentin regeneration.
Silk fibroin as a biomaterial substrate for corneal epithelial cell sheet generation.	To evaluate a silk fibroin (SF) biomaterial as a substrate for corneal epithelial cell proliferation, differentiation, and stratification in vitro compared with denuded human amniotic membrane (AM).
3-dimensional composite scaffolds consisting of apatite-PLGA-atelocollagen for bone tissue engineering.	We fabricated 3-dimensional scaffolds consisting of biodegradable poly(D, L-lactide-co-glycolic acid)(PLGA)(75/25) with hydroxyapatite particles containing atelocollagen (aAC). The aim of this study was to evaluate this new type of scaffold in regard to its basic properties and biocompatibility. Characterization of the obtained scaffolds was performed to know the porosity, shrinkage, diametral tensile strength, and biocompatibility.  Composite scaffolds made of PLGA with hydroxyapatite particles containing atelocollagen (PL-aAC) showed a greater strength and stability than PLGA scaffolds. PL-aAC also exhibited superior performance in terms of cell attachment and proliferation as compared to PLGA, while histological findings showed that PL-aAC had an excellent response toward soft tissues. Our results strongly suggest that PL-aAC is more useful for cell transplantation as compared to PLGA for bone tissue engineering.
Recent progress in interfacial tissue engineering approaches for osteochondral defects.	This review provides a brief synopsis of the anatomy and physiology of the osteochondral interface, scaffold-based and non-scaffold based approaches for engineering both tissues independently as well as recent developments in the manufacture of gradient constructs. Novel manufacturing techniques and nanotechnology will be discussed with potential application in osteochondral interfacial tissue engineering.
Properties and biocompatibility of chitosan and silk fibroin blend films for application in skin tissue engineering.	Chitosan/silk fibroin (CS/SF) blend films were prepared and evaluated for feasibility of using the films as biomaterial for skin tissue engineering application. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry analysis indicated chemical interaction between chitosan and fibroin. Chitosan enhanced -sheet conformation of fibroin and resulted in shifting of thermal degradation of the films. Flexibility, swelling index, and enzyme degradation were also increased by the chitosan content of the blend films. Biocompatibility of the blend films was determined by cultivation with fibroblast cells. All films showed no cytotoxicity by XTT assay. Fibroblast cells spread on CS/SF films via dendritic extensions, and cell-cell interactions were noted. Cell proliferation on CS/SF films was also demonstrated, and their phenotype was examined by the expression of collagen type I gene. These results showed possibility of using the CS/SF films as a supporting material for further study on skin tissue engineering.
The expanding family of bone marrow homing factors for hematopoietic stem cells: stromal derived factor 1 is not the only player in the game.	The -chemokine stromal derived factor 1 (SDF-1), which binds to the CXCR4 and CXCR7 receptors, directs migration and homing of CXCR4+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) to bone marrow (BM) and plays a crucial role in retention of these cells in stem cell niches. However, this unique role of SDF-1 has been recently challenged by several observations supporting SDF-1-CXCR4-independent BM homing. Specifically, it has been demonstrated that HSPCs respond robustly to some bioactive lipids, such as sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) and ceramide-1-phosphate (C1P), and migrate in response to gradients of certain extracellular nucleotides, including uridine triphosphate (UTP) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Moreover, the responsiveness of HSPCs to an SDF-1 gradient is enhanced by some elements of innate immunity (e.g., C3 complement cascade cleavage fragments and antimicrobial cationic peptides, such as cathelicidin/LL-37 or 2-defensin) as well as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Since all these factors are upregulated in BM after myeloblative conditioning for transplantation, a more complex picture of homing emerges that involves several factors supporting, and in some situations even replacing, the SDF-1-CXCR4 axis.
Cellular basis of tissue regeneration by omentum.	The omentum is a sheet-like tissue attached to the greater curvature of the stomach and contains secondary lymphoid organs called milky spots. The omentum has been used for its healing potential for over 100 years by transposing the omental pedicle to injured organs (omental transposition), but the mechanism by which omentum helps the healing process of damaged tissues is not well understood. Omental transposition promotes expansion of pancreatic islets, hepatocytes, embryonic kidney, and neurons. Omental cells (OCs) can be activated by foreign bodies in vivo. Once activated, they become a rich source for growth factors and express pluripotent stem cell markers. Moreover, OCs become engrafted in injured tissues suggesting that they might function as stem cells.Omentum consists of a variety of phenotypically and functionally distinctive cells. To understand the mechanism of tissue repair support by the omentum in more detail, we analyzed the cell subsets derived from the omentum on immune and inflammatory responses. Our data demonstrate that the omentum contains at least two groups of cells that support tissue repair, immunomodulatory myeloid derived suppressor cells and omnipotent stem cells that are indistinguishable from mesenchymal stem cells. Based on these data, we propose that the omentum is a designated organ for tissue repair and healing in response to foreign invasion and tissue damage.
Promotion effect of notochordal cells conditioned medium on proliferation and differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells]	To investigate the effect of notochordal cells (NCs) conditioned medium (NCCM) on the proliferation and differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs).
Remote magnetic navigation in atrial fibrillation.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is of profound public health importance and is largely a disease of aging and is responsible for increased morbidity- and mortality-related healthcare expenditures. Catheter ablation to isolate the pulmonary veins has become the therapy of choice for treatment of drug-refractory AF. Procedures can be very challenging and multiple difficulties must be overcome in order to achieve a successful outcome. The magnetic navigation system (MNS) has advantages in catheter maneuverability, stability and reproducibility. Due to the catheter design safety and efficacy of AF, ablation has increased. New developments are being made to allow fully remote ablation procedures in combination with the MNS. However, new technologies are still necessary to improve MNS ablation for AF.
Experimental formation of dentin-like structure in the root canal implant model using cryopreserved swine dental pulp progenitor cells.	The purpose of the present study was to present histological and immunohistochemical evidence showing the regenerative capacity of swine dental pulp stem cells (S-DPSCs) seeded on organic or synthetic scaffolds and implanted as hybrid root implants in the jaw bone of minipigs.
Hair follicle as a novel source of stem cells]	Tissue engineering as a rapidly developing branch of science offers hope for the use of its products in medical practice. Among the components of tissue substitutes are different types of cells, especially stem cells. A promising source of adult stem cells is hair follicles. Development of follicles in the skin takes place even during fetal life. They arise due to the impact of epidermal and mesenchymal cells. The next steps in the formation of hair follicles are under the control of many factors. Hair follicles are the niche of various stem cell populations and are a major source of cells responsible for regeneration of the hair, sebaceous glands and epidermis. The term "hair follicle stem cells" is most often used in relation to the epithelial cell population. Hair follicle stem cell studies are complicated by the fact that these stem cells divide relatively rarely.    The aim of this study is to present the characteristics of cells isolated from the hair follicle in the light of recent research.
Clinical relevance of chemokine receptor CXCR4]	Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1/CXCL12) induces intracellular signaling pathways crucial for mobilization, migration, proliferation and survival of many cell types via CXCR4, a chemokine CXC-motif receptor, member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. Despite playing a key role in such major processes as embryogenesis, cell differentiation and organ regeneration, molecular mechanisms underlying CXCR4 signaling remain elusive, even more so, as CXCR4 seems to activate both G-protein-dependent and G-protein-independent pathways. CXCR4 is expressed on multiple cell types including lymphocytes, hematopoietic stem cells, endothelial and epithelial cells, and cancer cells. In fact, overexpression of this receptor has been detected in many different types of cancer. The SDF-1/CXCR4 axis is also involved in tumor progression, angiogenesis, metastasis, and survival. This pathway is therefore a target for therapeutics that can block the SDF-1/CXCR4 interaction or inhibit downstream intracellular signaling. Clinical mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC), a nowadays popular method of collecting material for hematopoietic progenitor stem cell transplantation, is also dependent on the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), administered to a transplant donor during clinical treatment, violates interactions between CXCR4 and its ligand, which results in degradation of HSC anchorage in bone marrow and the release of these cells into peripheral blood.    In this paper we describe the clinical significance of CXCR4 and its ligand, as well as the role of CXCR4 and its gene polymorphisms in disease susceptibility.
Nanotopography induced contact guidance of the F11 cell line during neuronal differentiation: a neuronal model cell line for tissue scaffold development.	The F11 hybridoma, a dorsal root ganglion-derived cell line, was used to investigate the response of nociceptive sensory neurons to nanotopographical guidance cues. This established this cell line as a model of peripheral sensory neuron growth for tissue scaffold design. Cells were seeded on substrates of cyclic olefin copolymer (COC) films imprinted via nanoimprint lithography (NIL) with a grating pattern of nano-scale grooves and ridges. Different ridge widths were employed to alter the focal adhesion formation, thereby changing the cell/substrate interaction. Differentiation was stimulated with forskolin in culture medium consisting of either 1 or 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Per medium condition, similar neurite alignment was achieved over the four day period, with the 1% serum condition exhibiting longer, more aligned neurites. Immunostaining for focal adhesions found the 1% FBS condition to also have fewer, less developed focal adhesions. The robust response of the F11 to guidance cues further builds on the utility of this cell line as a sensory neuron model, representing a useful tool to explore the design of regenerative guidance tissue scaffolds.
Biocompatibility of alpha-calcium sulfate hemihydrate (CSH)/multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) composites for bone reconstruction application]	We examined the biocompatibility and the safety of a-calcium sulfate hemihydrate (CSH)/multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) composites for bone reconstruction application. The biocompatibility of the CSH/MWCNT composites was evaluated by the measures which taking L929 fibroblast cells cultured in the extracted liquid of the composite soaking solution and putting bone marrow stromal cells planted on the composite pellets in vitro, respectively. The cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT test and further observed using an inverted optical microscope and a scanning electric microscope. The toxicity of the composites was evaluated by acute and subacute systemic toxicity test. Long-term muscle and bone implantation in vivo tests were also conducted. L929 fibroblast cells grew well in the extracted liquid, as well as bone marrow stromal cells that could adhere on the surface of sample pellets and proliferated rapidly. MTT test showed that there were no significant differences between the experimental and control groups (P > 0.05). In vivo test manifested that the composites were no toxicity, no irritation to skin and good for bone defect reconstruction. It was proved that a-calcium sulfate hemihydrate (CSH)/multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) composites exhibited excellent biocompatibility for the potential application in bone tissue engineering.
Repair of critical size bone defects with porous poly(D,L-lactide)/nacre nanocomposite hollow scaffold.	To generate a novel porous poly(D,L-lactide)/nacre nanocomposite hollow scaffold.
Effect of SDS-based decelullarization in the prevention of calcification in glutaraldehyde-preserved bovine pericardium: study in rats.	The aim of study was to investigate the SDS-based decellularization process as an anticalcification method in glutaraldehyde-preserved bovine pericardium in subcutaneous rat model.
Scanning-fiber-based imaging method for tissue engineering.	A scanning-fiber-based method developed for imaging bioengineered tissue constructs such as synthetic carotid arteries is reported. Our approach is based on directly embedding one or more hollow-core silica fibers within the tissue scaffold to function as micro-imaging channels (MIC). The imaging process is carried out by translating and rotating an angle-polished fiber micro-mirror within the MIC to scan excitation light across the tissue scaffold. The locally emitted fluorescent signals are captured using an electron multiplying CCD camera and then mapped into fluorophore distributions according to fiber micro-mirror positions. Using an optical phantom composed of fluorescent microspheres, tissue scaffolds, and porcine skin, we demonstrated single-cell-level imaging resolution (20 to 30 m) at an imaging depth that exceeds the photon transport mean free path by one order of magnitude. This result suggests that the imaging depth is no longer constrained by photon scattering, but rather by the requirement that the fluorophore signal overcomes the background "noise" generated by processes such as scaffold autofluorescence. Finally, we demonstrated the compatibility of our imaging method with tissue engineering by visualizing endothelial cells labeled with green fluorescent protein through a  500 m thick and highly scattering electrospun scaffold.
Decellularized ovine esophageal mucosa for esophageal tissue engineering.	The success of a tissue engineered construct is greatly influenced by the choice of scaffold material. Decellularized esophageal matrix is a promising material for esophageal tissue engineering. The aim of this study was to develop a decellularized ovine esophageal mucosa and to investigate the effect of decellularization on the appearance of the resulting tissue.
The use of non-viral gene vectors for bioactive poly-(D,L-lactide) implant surfaces in bone tissue engineering.	The application of scaffolds in bone tissue engineering often comes along with side effects such as poor integrity, low regeneration rates of bone tissue with inadequate functionality, and, in case of non-degradable implants, the necessity of a second removal surgery after therapy. In this study, we coated a bioresorbable FDA-approved poly-(-caprolactone)-scaffold for bone regeneration with a poly-(D,L-lactide) layer containing copolymer-protected gene vectors to locally provide bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2). Results show that the presence of such gene vectors did not affect the distribution and attachment of seeded cells on gene-activated surfaces. BMP-2 was released into cell culture supernatants and furthermore detected in homogenised scaffolds. Increased amounts of osteoblastic markers, such as osteocalcin, osteopontin and the activity of alkaline phosphatase, in gene-activated scaffolds in vitro suggest a transdifferentiation of myoblastic C2C12 cells into the osteoblastic phenotype. With this study we present a new technology to bioactivate implant surfaces with non-viral gene vectors. This tool allows the stimulation of tissue regeneration by a local release of therapeutic proteins in vivo.
Current advances in the translation of vascular tissue engineering to the treatment of pediatric congenital heart disease.	Tissue-engineered vascular grafts (TEVGs) hold great promise for the improvement of outcomes in pediatric patients with congenital cardiac anomalies. Currently used synthetic grafts have several limitations, including thrombogenicity, increased risk of infection, and lack of growth potential. The first pilot clinical trial of TEVGs demonstrated the feasibility of this new technology and revealed an excellent safety profile. However, long-term follow-up from this trial revealed the primary graft-related complication to be stenosis, affecting 16 percent of grafts within 7 years post-implantation. In order to determine the mechanism behind TEVG stenosis and ultimately to create improved second generation TEVGs, our group has returned to the bench to study vascular neotissue formation in a variety of large and small animal models. The purpose of this report is to review the recent advances in the understanding of neotissue formation and vascular tissue engineering.
Development of a decellularised dermis.	The purpose of this investigation was to develop a decellularised human dermis suitable for allografting. Samples of human skin were obtained from deceased donors and taken through a series of steps to remove all cellular material. The steps were: chemical removal of the epidermis, disinfection, lysing of cells in hypotonic buffer, a detergent treatment and a nuclease buffer to remove residual nuclear material. Histological preparations of the decellularised dermis produced were then investigated. In addition residual DNA content, structural strength, collagen denaturation, cytotoxicity and in vivo tissue reactivity following implantation in a murine model were examined. For all donors tested there was no change in morphology as viewed by light microscopy. Mean DNA removal was evaluated at 92.1%. There were no significant changes in structural strength or evidence of collagen degradation. The tissue did not appear to be cytotoxic or elicit an immune response when implanted in the mouse model. A decellularised tissue has been developed that would appear to be suitable for a range of surgical procedures.
Microwave assisted synthesis of amorphous magnesium phosphate nanospheres.	Magnesium phosphate (MgP) materials have been investigated in recent years for tissue engineering applications, attributed to their biocompatibility and biodegradability. This paper describes a novel microwave assisted approach to produce amorphous magnesium phosphate (AMP) in a nanospherical form from an aqueous solution containing Mg(2+) and HPO(4)                           (2-)/PO(4)                           (3-). Some synthesis parameters such as pH, Mg/P ratio, solution composition were studied and the mechanism of AMP precursors was also demonstrated. The as-produced AMP nanospheres were characterized and tested in vitro. The results proved these AMP nanospheres can self-assemble into mature MgP materials and support cell proliferation. It is expected such AMP has potential in biomedical applications.
"In vitro" behaviour of adult mesenchymal stem cells of human bone marrow origin seeded on a novel bioactive ceramics in the Ca2SiO4-Ca 3(PO4)2 system.	This work describes the evaluation of three ceramic materials as potential osteogenic substrate for bone tissue engineering. The capacity of adult human mesenchymal stem cells cultured under experimental conditions known to adhere, proliferate and differentiate into osteoblasts was studied. Two types of culture medium: growth medium and osteogenic medium were evaluated. The materials were pure -tricalcium phosphate and also TCP doped with either 1.5 or 3 wt% of dicalcium silicate. The results showed that the hMSCs cultured adhered, spread, proliferated and produced mineralized extracellular matrix on all the ceramics studied. They showed an osteoblastic phenotype, especially in the TCP doped with 1.5 wt% C(2)S, indicating osteoblastic differentiation as a result of the increased concentration of silicon in solid solution in TCP. Ceramics evaluated in this work are bioactive, cytocompatible and capable of promoting the differentiation of hMSCs into osteoblast.
Modulation of osteogenic, adipogenic and myogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells by submicron grooved topography.	Topographic cues have been recognized crucial on the modulation of cell behavior, and subsequent important for the design of implants, cell-based biomedical devices and tissue-engineered products. Grooved topography direct cells to align anisotropically on the substrates, resulting in an obvious morphological difference compared with the flat and the other topographies. This study aimed at investigating the effects of grooved topography on the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) into osteoblasts, adipocytes and myoblasts. A series of submicron-grooved polystyrene substrates with equal groove-to-ridge ratio but different width and depth (width/depth (nm): 450/100, 450/350, 900/100, and 900/550) were fabricated based on electron beam lithography and soft lithography techniques. Primary rat MSCs (rMSCs) were cultured on these substrates without induction for differentiation for 6 days, and then subjected to induction for osteogenesis, adipogenesis and myogenesis. While the alignment of rMSCs strongly complied with the direction of the grooves and increased with groove depths, cell attachment on day 1 (~1.5  10(4)/cm(2)) and cell proliferation after 6 days of culture (~5  10(4)/cm(2)) were not significantly affected by substrate types. Osteogenesis, indicated by alkaline phosphatase activities and calcium deposit, was not significantly modulated by the grooved substrates, compared with the flat control, suggesting that cell alignment may not determine osteoinduction of rMSCs. On the other hand, adipogenesis, indicated by lipid production, was significantly enhanced by the grooved substrates compared with the flat surface (P < 0.001). On the other hand, myogenesis, indicated by desmin and MHC staining, was enhanced by the grooves in a time- and groove size-dependent manner compared with the flat control. The results suggested that grooved topography has an in-depth potential for modulating the commitment of the stem cell lineages, which could benefit the development of advanced biomaterials for biomedical applications.
Oscillatory shear stress created by fluid pulsatility versus flexed specimen configurations.	Oscillatory shear stress (OSS), caused by time-varying flow environments, may play a critical role in the production of engineered tissue by bone marrow-derived stem cells. This is particularly relevant in heart valve tissue engineering (HVTE), owing to the intense haemodynamic environments that surround native valves. In this study, we examined and quantified the role that (i) physiologically relevant scales of pulsatility and (ii) changes in geometry as a function of specimen flexure have in creating OSS conditions. A U-shaped bioreactor capable of producing flow, stretch and flexure was modelled with housed specimens, and computational fluid dynamic simulations were performed. We found that physiologically relevant OSS can be maximised by the application of pulsatile flow to straight, non-moving specimens in a uniform manner. This finding reduces a substantial layer of complexity in dynamic HVTE protocols in which traditionally, time-varying flow has been promoted through specimen movement in custom-made bioreactors. 
Preparation and characterization of elastin-like polypeptide scaffolds for local delivery of antibiotics and proteins.	Tissue engineering applications could benefit from simultaneous release of growth factors, signaling molecules, and antibiotics to obtain optimal healing of tissues. Elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs) are genetically engineered polymers that possess good biocompatibility, are biodegradable, and exhibit mechanical properties similar to natural elastin. In addition, ELPs exhibit a characteristic inverse phase transition temperature (T(t)). This T(t) behavior is widely exploited in hyperthermia mediated drug delivery. The objectives of this research were to prepare ELP hydrogel scaffolds using a novel ultrasonication method and to investigate the release of a model protein (bovine serum albumin, BSA) and a commonly used antibiotic in periodontal therapy (doxycycline) from the scaffolds at two different temperatures (25 C <T(t) vs. 37 C >T(t)). Both BSA and doxycycline showed a gradual time dependent release and showed a trend of higher release fractions with higher loading doses. Based on the comparison between the release profiles at the two selected temperatures, the release was higher at 37 C compared to that at 25 C for both the loading concentrations of doxycycline (0.05 and 0.1 % v/v) and only one of the loading concentrations of BSA (0.5 % v/v) studied, while the release was higher at 25 C compared to that at 37 C only for the other loading concentration of BSA (1 % v/v) studied. These results suggested that the drug molecular weight and loading concentration were significant factors that affected the release kinetics. The experiments in this study demonstrated that the ELP hydrogel scaffolds can successfully release proteins and antibiotics critical to tissue engineering.
Injectable nanohybrid scaffold for biopharmaceuticals delivery and soft tissue engineering.	An injectable nanofibrous hydrogel scaffold integrated with growth factors (GFs) loaded polysaccharide nanoparticles was developed that specifically allows for targeted adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) encapsulation and soft tissue engineering. The nanofibrous hydrogel was produced via biological conjugation of biotin-terminated star-shaped poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG-Biotin) and streptavidin-functionalized hyaluronic acid (HA-Streptavidin). The polysaccharide nanoparticles were noncovalently assembled via electrostatic interactions between low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and N,N,N-trimethylchitosan chloride (TMC). Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was entrapped in the LMWH/TMC nanoparticles by affinity interactions with LMWH.
Alginate hydrogel as a promising scaffold for dental-derived stem cells: an in vitro study.	The objectives of this study were to: (1) develop an injectable and biodegradable scaffold based on oxidized alginate microbeads encapsulating periodontal ligament (PDLSCs) and gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSCs); and (2) investigate the stem cell viability, and osteogenic differentiation of the stem cells in vitro. Stem cells were encapsulated using alginate hydrogel. The stem cell viability, proliferation and differentiation to adipogenic and osteogenic tissues were studied. To investigate the expression of both adipogenesis and ontogenesis related genes, the RNA was extracted and RT-PCR was performed. The degradation behavior of hydrogel based on oxidized sodium alginate with different degrees of oxidation was studied in PBS at 37 C as a function of time by monitoring the changes in weight loss. The swelling kinetics of alginate hydrogel was also investigated. The results showed that alginate is a promising candidate as a non-toxic scaffold for PDLSCs and GMSCs. It also has the ability to direct the differentiation of these stem cells to osteogenic and adipogenic tissues as compared to the control group in vitro. The encapsulated stem cells remained viable in vitro and both osteo-differentiated and adipo-differentiated after 4 weeks of culturing in the induction media. It was found that the degradation profile and swelling kinetics of alginate hydrogel strongly depends on the degree of oxidation showing its tunable chemistry and degradation rate. These findings demonstrate for the first time that immobilization of PDLSCs and GMSCs in the alginate microspheres provides a promising strategy for bone tissue engineering.
Stimulation of healing within a rabbit calvarial defect by a PCL/PLGA scaffold blended with TCP using solid freeform fabrication technology.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the healing capacity within an 8-mm rabbit calvarial defect using a polycaprolactone (PCL)/poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) scaffold blended with tri-calcium phosphate (TCP) that was constructed using solid freeform fabrication (SFF) technology. The PCL/PLGA/TCP scaffold showed a 37 % higher compressive strength and rougher surface than the PCL/PLGA scaffold. In animal experiments, new bone formation was analyzed using microcomputed tomography (micro-CT) and histological and histometric analyses. The PCL/PLGA/TCP groups had significantly greater neo-tissue areas as compared with the control groups at 4 and 8 weeks (P < 0.05). The PCL/PLGA/TCP group had significantly greater bone density as compared with the control and PCL/PLGA groups at 4 and 8 weeks (P < 0.005). The results of this study suggest that the PCL/PLGA/TCP scaffold fabricated using SFF technology is useful for recovering and enhancing new bone formation in bony defects in rabbits.
Chitosan/poly(DL,lactide-co-glycolide) scaffolds for tissue engineering.	Chitosan/poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) (Ch/DL PLG) composite scaffolds were fabricated by freeze-drying lyophilization, and were evaluated and compared for use as a bone regeneration scaffold through measurements of the compression mechanical properties of the porous scaffolds. Also, In vitro cell culture of Sprague-Dawley rat's osteoblasts were used to evaluate the phenotype expression of cells in the scaffolds, characterizing the cellular adhesion, proliferation and alkaline phosphatase activity. The gene expression of osteocalcin, sialoprotein, alkaline phosphatase, Type I collagen and TGF1 were confirmed in the samples; moreover, it was confirmed, the mineralization by IR spectra and EDS analysis. Our results thus show that Ch/DL PLG scaffolds are suitable for biological applications.
Effects of mechanical stimulation induced by compression and medium perfusion on cardiac tissue engineering.	Cardiac tissue engineering presents a challenge due to the complexity of the muscle tissue and the need for multiple signals to induce tissue regeneration in vitro. We investigated the effects of compression (1 Hz, 15% strain) combined with fluid shear stress (10(-2) -10(-1) dynes/cm(2) ) provided by medium perfusion on the outcome of cardiac tissue engineering. Neonatal rat cardiac cells were seeded in Arginine-Glycine-Aspartate (RGD)-attached alginate scaffolds, and the constructs were cultivated in a compression bioreactor. A daily, short-term (30 min) compression (i.e., "intermittent compression") for 4 days induced the formation of cardiac tissue with typical striation, while in the continuously compressed constructs (i.e., "continuous compression"), the cells remained spherical. By Western blot, on day 4 the expression of the gap junction protein connexin 43 was significantly greater in the "intermittent compression" constructs and the cardiomyocyte markers (-actinin and N-cadherin) showed a trend of better preservation compared to the noncompressed constructs. This regime of compression had no effect on the proliferation of nonmyocyte cells, which maintained low expression level of proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Elevated secretion levels of basic fibroblast growth factor and transforming growth factor- in the daily, intermittently compressed constructs likely attributed to tissue formation. Our study thus establishes the formation of an improved cardiac tissue in vitro, when induced by combined mechanical signals of compression and fluid shear stress provided by perfusion.
In vitro osteoclast-like and osteoblast cells' response to electrospun calcium phosphate biphasic candidate scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Successful long term bone replacement and repair remain a challenge today. Nanotechnology has made it possible to alter materials' characteristics and therefore possibly improve on the material itself. In this study, biphasic hydroxyapatite/-tricalcium phosphate nanobioceramic scaffolds were prepared by the electrospinning technique in order to mimic the extracellular matrix. Scaffolds were characterised by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and attenuated total reflectance-fourier transform infrared. Osteoblasts as well as monocytes that were differentiated into osteoclast-like cells, were cultured separately on the biphasic bioceramic scaffolds for up to 6 days and the proliferation, adhesion and cellular response were determined using lactate dehydrogenase cytotoxicity assay, nucleus and cytoskeleton dynamics, analysis of the cell cycle progression, measurement of the mitochondrial membrane potential and the detection of phosphatidylserine expression. SEM analysis of the biphasic bioceramic scaffolds revealed nanofibers spun in a mesh-like scaffold. Results indicate that the biphasic bioceramic electrospun scaffolds are biocompatible and have no significant negative effects on either osteoblasts or osteoclast-like cells in vitro.
Gel-cast glass-ceramic tissue scaffolds of controlled architecture produced via stereolithography of moulds.	Two glass-ceramic scaffolds with a simple cubic structure of 500 m square ligaments and square channels of width 400 or 600 m have been fabricated by gel-casting into moulds produced by stereolithography, followed by mould removal, polymer burnout and sintering. The scaffolds have crushing strengths of 41  14 and 17  5 Mpa, respectively. Using a method of assembling discrete slices of scaffold, we are able to study cell behaviour within a scaffold by disassembly. Both scaffold structures were seeded with primary human osteoblasts and these penetrate, adhere, spread and proliferate on the scaffold structure. The larger channel diameter scaffold shows a greater cell population (despite its smaller surface area) and more pronounced production of ECM components (collagen and mineralization) with increased time in culture. Studies of sectioned scaffolds show that cell density and ECM production decrease with depth and that the difference between the two scaffold architectures is maintained.
Investigation of a small-diameter decellularised artery as a potential scaffold for vascular tissue engineering; biomechanical evaluation and preliminary cell seeding.	The development of a small-diameter tissue engineered blood vessel (TEBV), with equivalent mechanical properties to the vessel being replaced, may provide a potential solution to the limitations associated with natural and synthetic bypass grafts of small-diameter vessels. This study presents the biomechanical properties of small-diameter (<4mm) porcine coronary arteries (PCA) and the corresponding natural matrix scaffold of the artery achieved through short-term decellularisation. Tubular segments, up to 50mm in length, of PCA were perfused with 0.1 sodium hydroxide (NaOH) for 3 to 12h to achieve the natural matrix scaffold. Uniaxial tensile, inflation and permeability tests were performed on non-decellularised and decellularised sections within 24h of slaughter to determine the alteration in mechanical properties as a result of decellularisation. A treatment time of 9h achieved decellularisation as all cell nuclei were appropriately disrupted and there was an absence of smooth muscle in the vascular wall. Uniaxial tensile and inflation tests confirmed the scaffold maintains its non-linear response, however a less stiff, more distensible low-load response and stiffer high-load response was found compared to non-decellularised sections. Vascular smooth muscle cells were successfully seeded to the lumen, abluminal side and lateral edges of decellularised sections and attachment and infiltration of the xenogeneic cells after 15 days confirmed the viability of the PCA scaffold as a suitable environment for cell growth and infiltration. An extended decellularisation treatment time increased the porosity whilst maintaining the mechanical integrity of the scaffold and this may optimise the repopulation of the scaffold. This study provides valuable information for the development of an optimum TEBV, while also establishing the potential of this natural matrix scaffold to be used as a graft or vascular tissue engineering scaffold.
Tissue engineered vascular grafts--preclinical aspects.	Tissue engineering enables the development of fully biological vascular substitutes that restore, maintain and improve tissue function in a manner identical to natural host tissue. However the development of the appropriate preclinical evaluation techniques for the generation of fully functional tissue-engineered vascular graft (TEVG) is required to establish their safety for use in clinical trials and to test clinical effectiveness. This review gives an insight on the various preclinical studies performed in the area of tissue engineered vascular grafts highlighting the different strategies used with respect to cells and scaffolds, typical animal models used and the major in vivo evaluation studies that have been carried out. The review emphasizes the combined effort of engineers, biologists and clinicians which can take this clinical research to new heights of regenerative therapy. 
Gelatin nanoparticles loaded poly(-caprolactone) nanofibrous semi-synthetic scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Nanofibrous semi-synthetic polymeric nanocomposite scaffolds were engineered by incorporating a maximum of 15 wt% biopolymeric gelatin nanoparticles (nGs) into the synthetic polymer poly(-caprolactone) (PCL) prior to electrospinning. The effect of nGs in altering the physico-chemical properties, cell material interaction and biodegradability of the scaffolds was evaluated. Experimental results showed that the inherent hydrophobicity of PCL scaffolds remained unaltered even after the incorporation of hydrophilic nGs. However, breakdown of the continuous nanofibers into lengths less than 7 m occurred within four to eight weeks in the presence of nGs in contrast with the greater than two year time frame for the degradation of PCL fibers alone that is known from the literature. In terms of cell-material interaction, human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were found to attach and spread better and faster on PCL_nG scaffolds compared to PCL scaffolds. However, there was no difference in hMSC proliferation and differentiation into osteogenic lineage between the scaffolds. These results indicate that PCL_nG nanofibrous nanocomposite scaffolds are an improvement over PCL scaffolds for bone tissue engineering applications in that the PCL_nG scaffolds provide improved cell interaction and are able to degrade and resorb more efficiently.
A covalently crosslinked polysaccharide hydrogel for potential applications in drug delivery and tissue engineering.	The development of non-cytotoxic hydrogels that can allow for the controlled release of molecules has important clinical and therapeutic applications. In this paper, we developed a series of in situ hydrogels by combining N,O-carboxymethyl chitosan and oxidized alginate without additional crosslinking agents. The rheological properties of these hydrogels as well as their gelling time, swelling ratio, and in vitro degradation behavior were investigated. We observed that although gelation was rapid at physiological temperature, it was even faster in the presence of higher oxidization degree of alginate. In vitro cytotoxicity study showed that the developed hydrogels were not cytotoxic after 24 h of culturing with NIH-3T3 cells. Additionally, bovine serum albumin was released from the hydrogels initially by diffusion at early stages followed by a degradation-dependent mechanism at later stages. In conclusion, the developed hydrogel might have potential application in the drug delivery system and tissue engineering.
Patterned silk film scaffolds for aligned lamellar bone tissue engineering.	The alignment and osteogenic differentiation of MSCs on patterned silk films (PF) is investigated as a bottom-up approach toward engineering bone lamellae. Screening PF with various groove dimensions shows that cell alignment is mediated by both the pattern width and depth. MSCs are differentiated in osteogenic medium for four weeks on flat films and on the PF that produce the best alignment. The PF support osteogenic differentiation while also inducing lamellar alignment of cells and matrix deposition. A secondary alignment effect is noted on the PF where a new layer of aligned cells grows over the first layer, but rotated obliquely to the underlying pattern. This layering and rotation of the MSCs resembles the cellular organization observed in native lamellar bone.
Enhancement of fatty acid-based polyurethanes cytocompatibility by non-covalent anchoring of chondroitin sulfate.	For tissue engineering purpose biopolymer chondroitin sulfate (CS), one of the major components of cartilage and bone extracellular matrix, was immobilized onto the surface of amino-functionalized polyurethane (PU) films derived from naturally occurring oleic and 10-undecenoic acids. The amino-functionalized PUs were prepared by aminolysis with 1,6-hexamethylenediamine of synthesized PUs containing methyl ester groups. FTIR-ATR, XPS, SEM, and water contact angle measurements were used to confirm the surface changes at each step of treatment, both in morphologies and chemical composition. Cytotoxicity and cell morphology analysis using osteoblast cell line MG63 showed that PU-CS films are suitable materials for cell growth, spreading, and differentiation.
Alginate hydrogel has a negative impact on in vitro collagen 1 deposition by fibroblasts.	Hydrogels have been widely investigated as 3D culture substrates because of their reported structural similarity to the extracellular matrix (ECM). Limited ECM deposition, however, occurs within these materials, so the resulting "tissues" bear little resemblance to those found in the body. Here matrix deposition by fibroblasts encapsulated within a calcium alginate (Ca-alg) hydrogel was investigated. Although the cells transcribed mRNA for coll I over a period of 3 weeks, very little collagen protein deposition was observed within the gel by histology or immunohistochemistry (IHC). Although molecular diffusion demonstrated charge dependency, this did not prevent the flux of both positively and negative charged amino acids through the gel, suggesting that the absence of ECM could not be attributed to substrate limitation. The flux of protein, however, was charge-dependent as proteins with a net negative charge passed quickly through the Ca-alg into the medium. The minimal collagen deposition within the Ca-alg was attributed to a combination of rapid movement of negatively charged procollagen through the gel and steric hindrance of fibril formation.
Characterization of controlled highly porous hyaluronan/gelatin cross-linking sponges for tissue engineering.	This study examines the suitability of N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride for use as a cross-linker in the preparation of highly porous hyaluronan (HA)/gelatin sponges through the solvent casting and particulate leaching (SCPL) process. The modulus, water absorption rate, bonding, morphology, cell viability, and chondrocyte mRNA expression of the HA/gelatin sponges were measured and compared. Water uptake by the sponges resulted in pores with spherical diameters ranging from 100m to 200m. With higher porosity, the strength and modulus declined. Larger salt leaching amounts resulted in higher water uptake. The cross-linking bonds in the HA/gelatin sponges were mostly ester bonds. According to our study, the amount of salt in the SCPL process was the main factor that influenced strength, pore interconnectivity, and water uptake ability. The results also showed that the scaffold had a non-viability effect on human chondrocytes, but the mRNA expression level of aggrecan and type II collagen in the cartilage was significantly higher than that of the control group after 5d of culture. The sponges developed in the present study are potential candidates for chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation in cartilage regeneration.
Evaluation of a novel poly N-acetyl glucosamine (pGlcNAc) hydrogel for treatment of the degenerating intervertebral disc.	The early stages of degenerative disc disease (DDD) primarily affect the disc nucleus pulposus (NP). Tissue-engineered strategies may enhance intervertebral disc (IVD) functionality. The aim of this study was to develop and evaluate a novel deacetylated poly-N-acetyl glucosamine (pGlcNAc) hydrogel characterizing its biochemical effect on human IVD cells as well as material biomechanical properties.
Acetic-acid-mediated miscibility toward electrospinning homogeneous composite nanofibers of GT/PCL.	In tissue engineering research, there has recently been considerable interest in using electrospun biomimetic nanofibers of hybrids, in particular, from natural and synthetic polymers for engineering different tissues. However, phase separation between a pair of much dissimilar polymers might give rise to detrimental influences on both the electrospinning process and the resultant fiber performance. A representative natural-synthetic hybrid of gelatin (GT) and polycaprolactone (PCL) (50:50) was employed to study the phase separation behavior in electrospinning of the GT/PCL composite fibers. Using trifluoroethanol (TFE) as the cosolvent of the two polymers, observation of visible sedimentation and flocculation from dynamic light scattering analysis of the GT/PCL/TFE mixture both showed that phase separation does occur in just a few hours. This consequently led to gradually deteriorated fiber morphologies (e.g., splash, fiber bonding, and varied fiber size) over time during electrospinning GT/PCL. Quantitative analysis also indicated that the ratio of GT to PCL in the resultant GT/PCL fibers was altered over time. To address the phase separation related issues, a tiny amount (<0.3%) of acetic acid was introduced to improve the miscibility, which enabled the originally turbid solution to become clear immediately and to be single-phase stable for more than 1 week. Nanofibers thus obtained also appeared to be thinner, smooth, and homogeneous with enhanced performance in wettability and mechanical properties. Given the versatility and widely uses of the electrospun GT/PCL and other similar natural-synthetic hybrid systems in constructing tissue-engineered scaffolds, this work may offer a facile and effective approach to achieve finer and compositionally homogeneous hybrid nanofibers for effective applications.
Porous alginate hydrogel functionalized with virus as three-dimensional scaffolds for bone differentiation.	In regenerative medicine, a synthetic extracellular matrix is crucial for supporting stem cells during its differentiation process to integrate into surrounding tissues. Hydrogels are used extensively in biomaterials as synthetic matrices to support the cells. However, to mimic the biological niche of a functional tissue, various chemical functionalities are necessary. We present here, a method of functionalizing a highly porous hydrogel with functional groups by mixing the hydrogel with a plant virus, tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), and its mutant. The implication of this process resides with the three important features of TMV: its well-defined genetic/chemical modularity, its multivalency (TMV capsid is composed of 2130 copies of identical subunits), and its well-defined structural features. Previous studies utilizing the native TMV on two-dimensional supports accelerated mesenchymal stem cell differentiation, and surfaces modified with genetically modified viral particles further enhanced cell attachment and differentiation. Herein we demonstrate that functionalization of a porous alginate scaffold can be achieved by the addition of viral particles with minimal processing and downstream purifications, and the cell attachment and differentiation within the macroporous scaffold can be effectively manipulated by altering the peptide or small molecule displayed on the viral particles.
In vitro 3D full-thickness skin-equivalent tissue model using silk and collagen biomaterials.	Current approaches to skin equivalents often only include the epidermis and dermis. Here, a full-thickness skin equivalent is described including epidermis, dermis, and hypodermis, that could serve as an in vitro model for studying skin biology or as a platform for consumer product testing. The construct is easy to handle and is maintained for >14 d while expressing physiological morphologies of the epidermis and dermis, seen by keratin 10, collagens I and IV expression. The skin equivalent produces glycerol and leptin, markers of adipose metabolism. This work serves as a foundation for understanding a few necessary factors needed to develop a stable, functional model of full-thickness skin.
Engineering approaches for investigating tumor angiogenesis: exploiting the role of the extracellular matrix.	A major paradigm shift in cancer research is the emergence of multidisciplinary approaches to investigate complex cell behaviors, to elucidate regulatory mechanisms and to identify therapeutic targets. Recently, efforts are focused on the engineering of complex in vitro models, which more accurately recapitulate the growth and progression of cancer. These strategies have proven vital for investigating and targeting the events that control tumor angiogenesis. In this review, we explore how the emerging engineering approaches are being used to unlock the complex mechanisms regulating tumor angiogenesis. Emphasis is placed on models using natural and synthetic biomaterials to generate scaffolds mimicking the extracellular matrix, which is known to play a critical role in angiogenesis. While the models presented in this review are revolutionary, improvements are still necessary and concepts for advancing and perfecting engineering approaches for modeling tumor angiogenesis are proposed. Overall, the marriage between disparate scientific fields is expected to yield significant improvements in our understanding and treatment of cancer.
The role of biodegradable engineered nanofiber scaffolds seeded with hair follicle stem cells for tissue engineering.	The aim of this study was to fabricate the poly caprolactone (PCL) aligned nanofiber scaffold and to evaluate the survival, adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation of rat hair follicle stem cells (HFSC) in the graft material using electrospun PCL nanofiber scaffold for tissue engineering applications.
Phenotypic characterization of mononuclear inflammatory cells following equine hydroxyapatite/collagen block grafting in rats.	To measure the inflammatory changes associated with the implantation of an equine hydroxyapatite and collagen-containing block graft (eHAC block) in a rodent model system, an eHAC block graft was implanted subcutaneously in rats. Control groups included saline, turpentine oil, and human mineralized particulate allograft (hMPA). Animals were sacrificed and tissue samples obtained after three days, as well as after 1, 2, 4 and 8 weeks. A panel of immunologic probes was used to identify circulatory monocytic cells (ED1), resident mononuclear phagocytes (ED2), mononuclear phagocytes of lymphoid origin (ED3), expression of Ia antigen (OX6), T-cells (OX19), and B-cells (OX33). Immunocytochemical localization was performed and mononuclear cells localized with each immunologic probe counted. Rat sera obtained after eight weeks were used for nitrocellulose dot-blotting to assess circulating anti-equine immunoglobulins. Statistical analysis was performed using two-way analysis of variance, in conjunction with the Bonferroni correction to account for multiple comparisons. A transient increase in monocytes at 3 days and 1 week was observed in all groups, but was significantly higher in the turpentine control (P < 0.0001). A significant increase in the numbers of mononuclear cells detected with clones ED2 and ED3 was observed in specimens from the turpentine group, in contrast to the other groups in the 3 day to 4 week interval (P < 0.0001), as well as within all time periods (P < 0.0001). A statistically significant difference in numbers of ED3-positive cells was observed in the hMPA group compared to the saline and the eHAC block groups after one week (P < 0.0001). Significantly more OX6-positive cells were observed in the turpentine group, compared to other groups (3 days to 1 week; P < 0.0001). T-lymphocytes were essentially absent except for rats given turpentine (after 1 week). No B-lymphocyte response was found and none of the rats developed systemic anti-equine antibodies. These data indicate that a cellular immune response is not elicited following implantation with the eHAC block graft, which might serve as an alternative material for regenerative therapy.
Cell-mediated degradation of strontium-doped calcium polyphosphate scaffold for bone tissue engineering.	Bio-ceramic porous scaffolds used in bone tissue engineering are incorporated in vivo by a process of cellular in-growth, followed by cell-mediated degradation and replacement of these scaffolds, in which macrophages and osteoclasts play the key role. Calcium polyphosphate (CPP) is an inorganic polymeric bioceramic which has been increasingly studied as a bone graft. The solution-mediated chemical degradation of strontium-substituted calcium polyphosphate (SCPP) scaffolds is well established in vitro, but an in vitro model of cell-mediated SCPP scaffold degradation has not been investigated. Herein, RAW264.7 (a murine monocyte/macrophage cell line) and osteoclasts were cultured on CPP and SCPP scaffolds. The weight loss and release amount of Sr(2+), Ca(2+) and PO(4)(3-) in a degradation medium indicated that macrophages could accelerate the degradation of SCPP. According to the results from MTT assay and scanning electron microscopy, it was found that a low dose of strontium was beneficial to the proliferation of macrophages, while strontium inhibited the activity of osteoclasts. This study will aid in developing SCPP scaffolds for in vivo bone tissue engineering.
Comparison of three inoculation methods for bone tissue engineering.	The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of three methods of cell inoculation on cell growth and bone formation: inoculation of seed cells into the scaffolds from two sides (two-side inoculation method), inoculation of seed cells from one side (single-side inoculation method), and inoculation of a compound of seed cells and type 1 collagen gel from one side (type 1 collagen inoculation method).
Subcutaneous fat tissue engineering using autologous adipose-derived stem cells seeded onto a collagen scaffold.	This pilot study examined the efficacy of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine-labeled autologous adipose-derived stem cells seeded onto collagen scaffolds to augment and/or regenerate the fat-enriched hypodermal tissue in an acute porcine wound model.
Concise review: cell therapy and tissue engineering for cardiovascular disease.	Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality, especially in developed countries. Various therapies for cardiovascular disease are investigated actively and are performed clinically. Recently, cell-based regenerative medicine using several cell sources has appeared as an alternative therapy for curing cardiovascular diseases. Scaffold-based or cell sheet-based tissue engineering is focused as a new generational cell-based regenerative therapy, and the clinical trials have also been started. Cell-based regenerative therapies have an enormous potential for treating cardiovascular disease. This review summarizes the recent research of cell sources and cell-based-regenerative therapies for cardiovascular diseases.
Concise review: the periosteum: tapping into a reservoir of clinically useful progenitor cells.	Elucidation of the periosteum and its regenerative potential has become a hot topic in orthopedics. Yet few review articles address the unique features of periosteum-derived cells, particularly in light of translational therapies and engineering solutions inspired by the periosteum's remarkable regenerative capacity. This review strives to define periosteum-derived cells in light of cumulative research in the field; in addition, it addresses clinical translation of current insights, hurdles to advancement, and open questions in the field. First, we examine the periosteal niche and its inhabitant cells and the key characteristics of these cells in the context of mesenchymal stem cells and their relevance for clinical translation. We compare periosteum-derived cells with those derived from the marrow niche in in vivo studies, addressing commonalities as well as features unique to periosteum cells that make them potentially ideal candidates for clinical application. Thereafter, we review the differentiation and tissue-building properties of periosteum cells in vitro, evaluating their efficacy in comparison with marrow-derived cells. Finally, we address a new concept of banking periosteum and periosteum-derived cells as a novel alternative to currently available autogenic umbilical blood and perinatal tissue sources of stem cells for today's population of aging adults who were "born too early" to bank their own perinatal tissues. Elucidating similarities and differences inherent to multipotent cells from distinct tissue niches and their differentiation and tissue regeneration capacities will facilitate the use of such cells and their translation to regenerative medicine.
Concise review: tissue-engineered vascular grafts for cardiac surgery: past, present, and future.	In surgical repair for heart or vascular disease, it is often necessary to implant conduits or correct tissue defects. The most commonly used graft materials to date are (a) artificial grafts; (b) autologous tissues, such as pericardium and saphenous vein; (c) allografts; and (d) xenografts. However, none of these four options offer growth potential, and all are associated with varying levels of thrombogenicity and susceptibility to infection. The lack of growth potential of these four options is particularly important in pediatric cardiac surgery, where patients will often outgrow their vascular grafts and require additional operations. Thus, developing a material with sufficient durability and growth potential that will function as the child grows older will eliminate the need for reoperation and significantly reduce morbidity and mortality of some types of congenital heart defects. Vascular tissue engineering is a relatively new field that has undergone enormous growth over the last decade. The goal of vascular tissue engineering is to produce neovessels and neo-organ tissue from autologous cells using a biodegradable polymer as a scaffold. The most important advantage of tissue-engineered implants is that these tissues can grow, remodel, rebuild, and respond to injury. Once the seeded autologous cells have deposited an extracellular matrix and the original scaffold is biodegraded, the tissue resembles and behaves as native tissue. When tissue-engineered vascular grafts are eventually put to use in the clinical arena, the quality of life in patients after surgery will be drastically improved.
Recent research progress of decellularization of native tissues]	Biologic scaffold materials composed of extracellular matrix (ECM) are typically obtained in processes that involve decellularization of tissues or organs. Decellularized tissues and organs have been successfully used in a variety of tissue engineering/regenerative medicine applications. Preservation of the complex composition and three-dimensional ultrastructure of the ECM is highly desirable but it is recognized that all methods of decellularization result in disruption of the structure and potential loss of composition. The efficiency of cell removal from a tissue is dependent on the origin of the tissue and the physical, chemical, and enzymatic methods that are used. Each of these treatments affects the biochemical composition, tissue ultrastructure, and mechanical behavior of the remaining ECM scaffold, and all of the treatment methods affect the host response to the material as well. Tissue decellularization with preservation of ECM integrity and bioactivity can be optimized by making correct decisions regarding the agents and techniques utilized during processing. In this paper, the most commonly used decellularization methods are described, and consideration given to the effects of these methods upon the biologic scaffold material and recently described antigen removal strategy are presented.
New approaches to graft engineering for haploidentical bone marrow transplantation.	Haploidentical transplantation opens the possibility to offer this treatment to a large number of patients with an otherwise incurable disease, such as some hematologic or oncologic malignancies, inborn or acquired bone marrow failure syndromes, hemoglobinopathies, immunodeficiencies, or other genetic diseases. Initial attempts at haploidentical transplantation using unmanipulated bone marrow were associated with a high transplant-related mortality. However, recent insights into the biology of haploidentical transplantation, the availability of effective in vivo large-scale graft-manipulation technology, and improved supportive care strategies have led to and are still leading to significantly better outcomes compared to previous decades. Methods for the in vitro depletion of T lymphocytes from mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) to prevent graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) have facilitated the wider use and acceptance of haploidentical transplantation in children and adult patients. Besides in vitro T-cell depletion techniques, other methods, such as the isolation of alloreactive natural killer (NK) cells, virus-specific T lymphocytes, and other effector or regulatory cells are nowadays available to rapidly rebuild the immune system after haploidentical transplantation for the prevention of severe infections or relapses of the underlying diseases.
Exploring anorganic bovine bone granules as osteoblast carriers for bone bioengineering: a study in rat critical-size calvarial defects.	It is known that current trends on bone bioengineering seek ideal scaffolds and explore innovative methods to restore tissue function. In this way, the objective of this study was to evaluate the behavior of anorganic bovine bone as osteoblast carrier in critical-size calvarial defects. MC3T3-E1 osteoblast cells (1x10(5) cells/well) were cultured on granules of anorganic bovine bone in 24-well plates and after 24 h these granules were implanted into rat critical-size calvarial defects (group Biomaterial + Cells). In addition, other groups were established with different fillings of the defect: Blood Clot (negative control); Autogenous Bone (positive control); Biomaterial (only granules) and Cells (only MC3T3-E1 cells). After 30 days, the animals were euthanized and the calvaria were technically processed in order to allow histological and morphometric analysis. It was possible to detect blood vessels, connective tissue and newly formed bone in all groups. Particularly in the Biomaterial + Cells group, it was possible to observe a profile of biological events between the positive control group (autogenous bone) and the group in which only anorganic bovine granules were implanted. Altogether, the results of the present study showed that granules of anorganic bovine bone can be used as carrier to osteoblasts and that adding growth factors at the moment of implantation should maximize these results.
Characterizing the effects of VPA, VC and RCCS on rabbit keratocytes onto decellularized bovine cornea.	To investigate the morphological and growth characteristics of rabbit keratocytes when cultured on decellularized cornea under simulate microgravity (SMG) rotary cell culture system (RCCS) and static culture or in plastic culture supplemented with small molecules of valproic acid (VPA) and vitamin C (VC). Bovine corneas were firstly decellularized with Triton X-100 and NH(4)OH and through short-term freezing process. Then cell count kit-8 (CCK-8) and flow cytometry were used to test the effects of VPA and VC on the proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis of rabbit keratocytes. Hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) imaging showed that cells were eliminated in the decellularized bovine corneas. The proliferation of cultured keratocytes was promoted by VPA and VC in the cell proliferation assay. VPA and VC moderately decreased the number of apoptotic cells and obviously promoted cell-cycle entrance of keratocytes. Rabbit keratocytes in plastic displayed spindle shape and rare interconnected with or without VPA and VC. Cells revealed dendritic morphology and reticular cellular connections when cultured on the carriers of decellularized corneas supplemented with VPA and VC even in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). When cultured in RCCS supplemented with VPA, VC and 10% FBS, keratocytes displayed round shape with many prominences and were more prone to grow into the pores of carriers with aggregation. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis proved that the keratocytes cultured on decellularized bovine cornea under SMG with VPA and VC expressed keratocan and lumican. Keratocytes cultured on plastic expressed lumican but not keratocan. Immunofluorescence identification revealed that cells in all groups were positively immunostained for vimentin. Keratocytes on decellularized bovine cornea under SMG or in static culture were positively immunostained for keratocan and lumican. Thus, we reasonably made a conclusion that the combination of VPA, VC, RCCS and decellularized corneal carriers provide a good condition for keratocytes to well grow. Keratocytes can be manipulated to be aggregates or physiological morphological growth in vitro, which are important for the research of corneal stem cells and corneal tissue engineering.
Nanodentistry: combining nanostructured materials and stem cells for dental tissue regeneration.	Regenerative dentistry represents an attractive multidisciplinary therapeutic approach that complements traditional restorative/surgery techniques and benefits from recent advances in stem cell biology, molecular biology, genomics and proteomics. Materials science is important in such advances to move regenerative dentistry from the laboratory to the clinic. The design of novel nanostructured materials, such as biomimetic matrices and scaffolds for controlling cell fate and differentiation, and nanoparticles for diagnostics, imaging and targeted treatment, is needed. The combination of nanotechnology, which allows the creation of sophisticated materials with exquisite fine structural detail, and stem cell biology turns out to be increasingly useful in regenerative medicine. The administration to patients of dynamic biological agents comprising stem cells, bioactive scaffolds and/or nanoparticles will certainly increase the regenerative impact of dental pathological tissues. This overview briefly describes some of the actual benefits and future possibilities of nanomaterials in the emerging field of stem cell-based regenerative dentistry.
Engineering dextran-based scaffolds for drug delivery and tissue repair.	Owing to its chemically reactive hydroxyl groups, dextran can be modified with different functional groups to form spherical, tubular and 3D network structures. The development of novel functional scaffolds for efficient controlled release and tissue regeneration has been a major research interest, and offers promising therapeutics for many diseases. Dextran-based scaffolds are naturally biodegradable and can serve as bioactive carriers for many protein biomolecules. The reconstruction of the in vitro microenvironment with proper signaling cues for large-scale tissue regenerative scaffolds has yet to be fully developed, and remains a significant challenge in regenerative medicine. This paper will describe recent advances in dextran-based polymers and scaffolds for controlled release and tissue engineering. Special attention is given to the development of dextran-based hydrogels that are precisely manipulated with desired structural properties and encapsulated with defined angiogenic growth factors for therapeutic neovascularization, as well as their potential for wound repair.
Regenerative endodontics as a tissue engineering approach: past, current and future.	With the reported startling statistics of high incidence of tooth decay and tooth loss, the current interest is focused on the development of alternate dental tissue replacement therapies. This has led to the application of dental tissue engineering as a clinically relevant method for the regeneration of dental tissues and generation of bioengineered whole tooth. Although, tissue engineering approach requires the three main key elements of stem cells, scaffold and morphogens, a conductive environment (fourth element) is equally important for successful engineering of any tissue and/or organ. The applications of this science has evolved continuously in dentistry, beginning from the application of Ca(OH)(2)  in vital pulp therapy to the development of a fully functional bioengineered tooth (mice). Thus, with advances in basic research, recent reports and studies have shown successful application of tissue engineering in the field of dentistry. However, certain practical obstacles are yet to be overcome before dental tissue regeneration can be applied as evidence-based approach in clinics. The article highlights on the past achievements, current developments and future prospects of tissue engineering and regenerative therapy in the field of endodontics and bioengineered teeth (bioteeth).
Tissue engineering of the intestine in a murine model.	Tissue-engineered small intestine (TESI) has successfully been used to rescue Lewis rats after massive small bowel resection, resulting in return to preoperative weights within 40 days.(1) In humans, massive small bowel resection can result in short bowel syndrome, a functional malabsorptive state that confers significant morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs including parenteral nutrition dependence, liver failure and cirrhosis, and the need for multivisceral organ transplantation.(2) In this paper, we describe and document our protocol for creating tissue-engineered intestine in a mouse model with a multicellular organoid units-on-scaffold approach. Organoid units are multicellular aggregates derived from the intestine that contain both mucosal and mesenchymal elements,(3) the relationship between which preserves the intestinal stem cell niche.(4) In ongoing and future research, the transition of our technique into the mouse will allow for investigation of the processes involved during TESI formation by utilizing the transgenic tools available in this species.(5)The availability of immunocompromised mouse strains will also permit us to apply the technique to human intestinal tissue and optimize the formation of human TESI as a mouse xenograft before its transition into humans. Our method employs good manufacturing practice (GMP) reagents and materials that have already been approved for use in human patients, and therefore offers a significant advantage over approaches that rely upon decellularized animal tissues. The ultimate goal of this method is its translation to humans as a regenerative medicine therapeutic strategy for short bowel syndrome.
Poly(-caprolactone)-carbon nanotube composite scaffolds for enhanced cardiac differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells.	To evaluate the efficacy of electrically conductive, biocompatible composite scaffolds in modulating the cardiomyogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs).
Biological characterization of oxidized hyaluronic acid/resveratrol hydrogel for cartilage tissue engineering.	Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis that is caused by breakdown of cartilage, with eventual loss of the cartilage of the joints. The ability of self-repair in damaged cartilage tissue is limited; the aim of this work is to fabricate and characterize an oxidized hyaluronic acid/resveratrol (Oxi-HA/Res) hydrogel for future applications in cartilage tissue engineering. Under physiological conditions, the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel was prepared by chemical crosslinking of Oxi-HA with resveratrol solution and characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectrometry assay; the biocompatibility and gene expression of chondrocytes within the Oxi-HA-Res hydrogel then analyzed. The cell viability and cytotoxicity assays showed that the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel has good biocompatibility. Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel can upregulate expression of type II collagen, aggrecan, and Sox-9 genes; while down-regulating IL-1, MMP-1, MMP-3, MMP13 gene expression. It can also reduce LPS-induced inflammation and chondrocyte damage. The results of this study showed that the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel is biocompatible with chondrocytes, allows for extracellular matrix synthesis, and also reduce LPS-induced inflammation and damage. These results suggest that Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel may be a potential suitable cell carrier for chondrocyte cells in the treatment of cartilage defect. However, further in vivo study is mandatory for future possible clinical applications.
An ice-templated, linearly aligned chitosan-alginate scaffold for neural tissue engineering.	Several strategies have been investigated to enhance axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury, however, the resulting growth can be random and disorganized. Bioengineered scaffolds provide a physical substrate for guidance of regenerating axons towards their targets, and can be produced by freeze casting. This technique involves the controlled directional solidification of an aqueous solution or suspension, resulting in a linearly aligned porous structure caused by ice templating. In this study, freeze casting was used to fabricate porous chitosan-alginate (C/A) scaffolds with longitudinally oriented channels. Chick dorsal root ganglia explants adhered to and extended neurites through the scaffold in parallel alignment with the channel direction. Surface adsorption of a polycation and laminin promoted significantly longer neurite growth than the uncoated scaffold (poly-L-ornithine + Laminin = 793.2  187.2 m; poly-L-lysine + Laminin = 768.7  241.2 m; uncoated scaffold = 22.52  50.14 m) (P < 0.001). The elastic modulus of the hydrated scaffold was determined to be 5.08  0.61 kPa, comparable to reported spinal cord values. The present data suggested that this C/A scaffold is a promising candidate for use as a nerve guidance scaffold, because of its ability to support neuronal attachment and the linearly aligned growth of DRG neurites.
Chitosan-collagen scaffolds with nano/microfibrous architecture for skin tissue engineering.	In this study, a hierarchical nano/microfibrous chitosan/collagen scaffold that approximates structural and functional attributes of native extracellular matrix has been developed for applicability in skin tissue engineering. Scaffolds were produced by electrospinning of chitosan followed by imbibing of collagen solution, freeze-drying, and subsequent cross-linking of two polymers. Scanning electron microscopy showed formation of layered scaffolds with nano/microfibrous architechture. Physicochemical properties of scaffolds including tensile strength, swelling behavior, and biodegradability were found satisfactory for intended application. 3T3 fibroblasts and HaCaT keratinocytes showed good in vitro cellular response on scaffolds thereby indicating the matrices, cytocompatible nature. Scaffolds tested in an ex vivo human skin equivalent wound model, as a preliminary alternative to animal testing, showed keratinocyte migration and wound re-epithelization-a prerequisite for healing and regeneration. Taken together, the herein proposed chitosan/collagen scaffold, shows good potential for skin tissue engineering.
Mandibular symphysis and ramus as sources of osteoblastic cells for bone tissue engineering.	Autografts from mandibular symphysis and ramus are often used for bone reconstruction. Based on this, we hypothesized that these sites could be useful cell sources for bone tissue engineering approaches. Thus, our study aimed at evaluating the proliferation and osteoblast phenotype development of cells derived from mandibular symphysis and ramus.
Fabrication and in vivo thrombogenicity testing of nitric oxide generating artificial lungs.	Hollow fiber artificial lungs are increasingly being used for long-term applications. However, clot formation limits their use to 1-2 weeks. This study investigated the effect of nitric oxide generating (NOgen) hollow fibers on artificial lung thrombogenicity. Silicone hollow fibers were fabricated to incorporate 50 nm copper particles as a catalyst for NO generation from the blood. Fibers with and without (control) these particles were incorporated into artificial lungs with a 0.1 m(2) surface area and inserted in circuits coated tip-to-tip with the NOgen material. Circuits (N = 5/each) were attached to rabbits in a pumpless, arterio-venous configuration and run for 4 h at an activated clotting time of 350-400 s. Three control circuits clotted completely, while none of the NOgen circuits failed. Accordingly, blood flows were significantly higher in the NOgen group (95.9  11.7, p < 0.01) compared to the controls (35.2  19.7; mL/min), and resistance was significantly higher in the control group after 4 h (15.38  9.65, p < 0.001) than in NOgen (0.09  0.03; mmHg/mL/min). On the other hand, platelet counts and plasma fibrinogen concentration expressed as percent of baseline in control group (63.7  5.7%, 77.2  5.6%; p < 0.05) were greater than those in the NOgen group (60.4  5.1%, 63.2  3.7%). Plasma copper levels in the NOgen group were 2.8 times baseline at 4 h (132.8  4.5 g/dL) and unchanged in the controls. This study demonstrates that NO generating gas exchange fibers could be a potentially effective way to control coagulation inside artificial lungs.
Regulation of the osteogenesis of pre-osteoblasts by spatial arrangement of electrospun nanofibers in two- and three-dimensional environments.	Orientation of extracellular matrix (ECM) fibrils contributes to the anisotropy of bones, but little is known about how fibril orientation induces osteoblastic responses. Here, biomimetic polycaprolactone/type I collagen (PCL/COL-1) nanofibers with aligned and random fiber arrangements were used as models to study their effects on pre-osteoblasts. Elongated cell morphology, accelerated cell migration, elevated alkaline phosphatase activity and calcium content, up-regulated expression of osteogenic markers and differential expression of integrins were observed for cells cultured on two-dimensional (2D) aligned nanofibers. To emulate in vivo tissue structure, three-dimensional (3D) cell/nanofiber constructs with cells embedded among nanofiber layers were built via layer-by-layer assembly. These showed that aligned nanofibers in the 3D constructs continuously induced cell polarization and promoted osteogenesis. These findings revealed that nanofiber alignment favored osteogenic differentiation of pre-osteoblasts, and demonstrated the potential of 3D cell/nanofiber construct as a model to study specific cell-material interactions in a physiologically relevant environment.
Differential morphology and homogeneity of tissue-engineered cartilage in hydrodynamic cultivation with transient exposure to insulin-like growth factor-1 and transforming growth factor-1.	Successful tissue-engineering strategies for cartilage repair must maximize the efficacy of chondrocytes within their limited life span. To that end, the combination of exogenous growth factors with mechanical stimuli holds promise for development of clinically relevant cartilage tissue substitutes. The current study aimed to determine whether incorporation of transient exposure to growth factors into a hydrodynamic bioreactor system can improve the functional maturation of tissue-engineered cartilage. Chondrocyte-seeded polyglycolic acid scaffolds were cultivated within a wavy-walled bioreactor that imparts fluid flow-induced shear stress for 4 weeks. Constructs were nourished with 100 ng/mL insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) or 10 ng/mL transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) either for the first 15 days of the culture (transient) or throughout the entire cultivation (continuous). Transiently treated constructs were found to exhibit better functional properties than continuously nourished constructs. The limited development of engineered tissues continuously stimulated by IGF-1 or TGF-1 was related to massive growth factor leftovers in the environments that downregulated the expression of the associated receptors. Treatment with TGF-1 eliminated the formation of a fibrous capsule at the construct periphery possibly through suppression of Smad3 phosphorylation, yielding constructs with greater homogeneity. Furthermore, TGF-1 reversely regulated Smad2 and Smad3 pathways in articular chondrocytes under hydrodynamic stimuli partially via Smad7. Collectively, transient exposure to growth factors is likely to maintain chondrocyte homeostasis, and thus promotes their anabolic activities under hydrodynamic stimuli. The present work suggests that robust hydrodynamically engineered neocartilage with a reduced fibrotic response and enhanced tissue homogeneity can be achieved through optimization of growth factor supplementation protocols and potentially through manipulation of intracellular signals such as Smad.
Reconstruction of functional ocular surface by acellular porcine cornea matrix scaffold and limbal stem cells derived from human embryonic stem cells.	Limbal stem cells (LSCs) derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) hold great potential for cell-based therapies for ocular surface diseases. The cell-based therapies mainly depend on an appropriate differentiation proposal with a high efficiency and on a suitable scaffold. In this study, we aimed to establish a feasible and efficient strategy for inducing hESCs into LSC-like cells by the LSC conditioned medium. The induced cells possessed the similar morphologic characteristics and expression of normal LSCs and showed a strong clonogenic and proliferative capacity in vitro. To construct a tissue-engineering corneal graft, these differentiated cells were seeded on an acelluar porcine corneal matrix (APCM), which maintained the corneal basement membrane in vitro. After 14 days culture, these induced cells gave rise to stratified epithelial cell sheets on the APCM and the basal cells still kept LSC characteristics. In rabbit total limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD) models, the tissue-engineering graft had the potential to reconstruct the damaged ocular surface and alleviated the invasion of corneal neovascularization. These findings indicated that the engraftment constructed with the APCM scaffold and hESC-derived LSCs might be a potential therapy option for ocular surface regeneration in LSCD cases. 
Biocomposites reinforced by fibers or tubes as scaffolds for tissue engineering or regenerative medicine.	As a dynamic and hierarchically organized composite, native extracellular matrix (ECM) not only supplies mechanical support, which the embedded cells need, but also regulates various cellular activities through interaction with them. On the basis of the ECM-mimetic principle, good biocompatibility and appropriate mechanical properties are the two basic requirements that the ideal scaffolds for the tissue engineering or regenerative medicine need. Some fibers and tubes have been shown effective to reinforce scaffolds for tissue engineering or regenerative medicine. In this review, three parts, namely properties affected by the addition of fibers or tubes, scaffolds reinforced by fibers or tubes for soft tissue repair, and scaffolds reinforced by fibers or tubes for hard tissue repair are stated, which shows that tissue repair or regeneration efficacy was enhanced significantly by fiber or tube reinforcement. In addition, it indicates that these reinforcing agents can improve the biocompatibility and biodegradation of the scaffolds in most cases. However, there are still some concerns, such as the homogeneousness in structure or composition throughout the reinforced scaffolds, the adhesive strength between the matrix and the fibers or tubes, cytotoxicity of nanoscaled reinforcing agents, etc., which were also discussed in the conclusion and perspectives part.
Plasma-assisted heparin conjugation on electrospun poly(L-lactide) fibrous scaffolds.	Heparin conjugation on poly(L-lactide) fibrous scaffolds fabricated by electrospinning was accomplished by surface functionalization with amine (-NH2) groups using a sequential treatment with Ar-NH3 and H2 plasmas. The density of the incorporated -NH2 groups was determined by combining a chemical derivatization method with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The time of Ar-NH3 plasma treatment significantly affected the N/C, -NH2 /N, and -NH2 /C fractions, whereas the plasma power, Ar-NH3 gas composition, and time of H2 plasma treatment only influenced the -NH2 /N and -NH2 /C fractions. Scaffold surface functionalization by -NH2 groups significantly increased the amount of covalently bonded heparin compared to a hydrolysis method. The function of immobilized heparin was confirmed by the decrease of platelet attachment during the exposure of the scaffolds to blood from Sprague-Dawley rats. In vitro experiments with bovine aorta endothelial cells demonstrated that heparin conjugation enhanced cell infiltration through the fibrous scaffolds, regardless of the amount of covalently immobilized heparin.
Reconstruction of critical-size mandibular defects in immunoincompetent rats with human adipose-derived stromal cells.	In patients with bony defects, autologous bone grafts are the "gold standard" for reconstruction. In children, autologous bone harvesting is limited but tissue engineering offers an alternative. Next to bone marrow, adipose tissue is a source of mesenchymal stromal cells, and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSC) can differentiate into osteocytes. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of bioactive implants (ADSC in fibrin glue) for repair of critical-size mandibular defects in athymic rats. Human adult ADSC embedded in fibrin glue were implanted into a critical-size defect in the rat mandible and their efficacy was compared to those of protected bone healing (pbh), autologous bone graft, and an empty defect. The newly formed bone was quantified using high-resolution flat-panel volumetric CT (fpvCT) during different observation times. After eight weeks, the specimens were assessed histologically and by micro-computed tomography (-CT). The radiographic examination demonstrated a significantly higher level of ossified defect area in the ADSC side compared with the pbh side. The autologous bone graft side showed significantly enhanced bone formation compared to the empty defect. The histological findings in the specimens with ADSC showed bony bridging of the defect. ADSC were capable of defect reconstruction under our experimental conditions. 
Pharmacologically tunable polyethylene-glycol-based cell growth substrate.	Biohybrid materials combining synthetic polymers with biological components are highly suited for tissue engineering in order to emulate the behavior of natural materials such as the extracellular matrix (ECM). In order to allow for an optimal cell-material interplay, the physical and biological parameters of the artificial matrix need to be dynamically remodeled during cultivation. Current tissue engineering concepts are mainly based on passive remodeling mechanisms including the degradation of the hydrogel and the release of incorporated biomolecules and therefore do not enable external adjustment of cultivation conditions. We present a novel hydrogel material that is able to serve as a cell growth matrix, whose degradation and presentation of cell-interacting biomolecules can be externally controlled by the addition of a pharmacological substance. The hydrogel is based on branched polyethylene glycol that is covalently decorated with the aminocoumarin-antibiotic switchable gyrase B protein conferring stimulus-responsive degradation. ECM properties were conferred to the hydrogels with cell attachment motifs and a general approach for the incorporation and inducible release of therapeutic biomolecules. This smart biohybrid material has the potential to serve as a next-generation tissue engineering device which allows for dynamic external adjustment of the physical and biological parameters, resulting in optimally controlled tissue formation. 
Carboxymethyl cellulose-hydroxyapatite hybrid hydrogel as a composite material for bone tissue engineering applications.	Natural bone is a complex inorganic-organic nanocomposite material, in which hydroxyapatite (HA) nanocrystals and collagen fibrils are well organized into hierarchical architecture over several length scales. In this work, we reported a new hybrid material (CMC-HA) containing HA drown in a carboxymethylcellulose (CMC)-based hydrogel. The strategy for inserting HA nanocrystals within the hydrogel matrix consists of making the freeze-dried hydrogel to swell in a solution containing HA microcrystals. The composite CMC-HA hydrogel has been characterized from a physicochemical and morphological point of view by means of FTIR spectroscopy, rheological measurements, and field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM). No release of HA was measured in water or NaCl solution. The distribution of HA crystal on the surface and inside the hydrogel was determined by time of flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) and FESEM. The biological performance of CMC-HA hydrogel were tested by using osteoblast MG63 line and compared with a CMC-based hydrogel without HA. The evaluation of osteoblast markers and gene expression showed that the addition of HA to CMC hydrogel enhanced cell proliferation and metabolic activity and promoted the production of mineralized extracellular matrix.
Evaluation of multifunctional polysaccharide hydrogels with varying stiffness for bone tissue engineering.	The use of hydrogels for bone regeneration has been limited due to their inherent low modulus to support cell adhesion and proliferation as well as their susceptibility to bacterial infections at the wound site. To overcome these limitations, we evaluated multifunctional polysaccharide hydrogels of varying stiffness to obtain the optimum stiffness at which the gels (1) induce proliferation of human dermal fibroblasts, human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVECs), and murine preosteoblasts (MC3T3-E1), (2) induce osteoblast differentiation and mineralization, and (3) exhibit an antibacterial activity. Rheological studies demonstrated that the stiffness of hydrogels made of a polysaccharide blend of methylcellulose, chitosan, and agarose was increased by crosslinking the chitosan component to different extents with increasing amounts of genipin. The gelation time decreased (from 210 to 60 min) with increasing genipin concentrations. Proliferation of HUVECs decreased by 10.7 times with increasing gel stiffness, in contrast to fibroblasts and osteoblasts, where it increased with gel stiffness by 6.37 and 7.8 times, respectively. At day 14 up to day 24, osteoblast expression of differentiation markers-osteocalcin, osteopontin-and early mineralization marker-alkaline phosphatase, were significantly enhanced in the 0.5% (w/v) crosslinked gel, which also demonstrated enhanced mineralization by day 25. The antibacterial efficacy of the hydrogels decreased with the increasing degree of crosslinking as demonstrated by biofilm formation experiments, but gels crosslinked with 0.5% (w/v) genipin still demonstrated significant bacterial inhibition. Based on these results, gels crosslinked with 0.5% (w/v) genipin, where 33% of available groups on chitosan were crosslinked, exhibited a stiffness of 50264.5 Pa and demonstrated the optimal characteristics to support bone regeneration.
New biotextiles for tissue engineering: development, characterization and in vitro cellular viability.	This work proposes biodegradable textile-based structures for tissue engineering applications. We describe the use of two polymers, polybutylene succinate (PBS) proposed as a viable multifilamentand silk fibroin (SF), to produce fibre-based finely tuned porous architectures by weft knitting. PBS is here proposed as a viable extruded multifilament fibre to be processed by a textile-based technology. A comparative study was undertaken using a SF fibre with a similar linear density. The knitted constructs obtained are described in terms of their morphology, mechanical properties, swelling capability, degradation behaviour and cytotoxicity. The weft knitting technology used offers superior control over the scaffold design (e.g. size, shape, porosity and fibre alignment), manufacturing and reproducibility. The presented fibres allow the processing of a very reproducible intra-architectural scaffold geometry which is fully interconnected, thus providing a high surface area for cell attachment and tissue in-growth. The two types of polymer fibre allow the generation of constructs with distinct characteristics in terms of the surface physico-chemistry, mechanical performance and degradation capability, which has an impact on the resulting cell behaviour at the surface of the respective biotextiles. Preliminary cytotoxicity screening showed that both materials can support cell adhesion and proliferation. These results constitute a first validation of the two biotextiles as viable matrices for tissue engineering prior to the development of more complex systems. Given the processing efficacy and versatility of the knitting technology and the interesting structural and surface properties of the proposed polymer fibres it is foreseen that the developed systems could be attractive for the functional engineering of tissues such as skin, ligament, bone or cartilage. 
Patterning human neuronal networks on photolithographically engineered silicon dioxide substrates functionalized with glial analogues.	Interfacing neurons with silicon semiconductors is a challenge being tackled through various bioengineering approaches. Such constructs inform our understanding of neuronal coding and learning and ultimately guide us toward creating intelligent neuroprostheses. A fundamental prerequisite is to dictate the spatial organization of neuronal cells. We sought to pattern neurons using photolithographically defined arrays of polymer parylene-C, activated with fetal calf serum. We used a purified human neuronal cell line [Lund human mesencephalic (LUHMES)] to establish whether neurons remain viable when isolated on-chip or whether they require a supporting cell substrate. When cultured in isolation, LUHMES neurons failed to pattern and did not show any morphological signs of differentiation. We therefore sought a cell type with which to prepattern parylene regions, hypothesizing that this cellular template would enable secondary neuronal adhesion and network formation. From a range of cell lines tested, human embryonal kidney (HEK) 293 cells patterned with highest accuracy. LUHMES neurons adhered to pre-established HEK 293 cell clusters and this coculture environment promoted morphological differentiation of neurons. Neurites extended between islands of adherent cell somata, creating an orthogonally arranged neuronal network. HEK 293 cells appear to fulfill a role analogous to glia, dictating cell adhesion, and generating an environment conducive to neuronal survival. We next replaced HEK 293 cells with slower growing glioma-derived precursors. These primary human cells patterned accurately on parylene and provided a similarly effective scaffold for neuronal adhesion. These findings advance the use of this microfabrication-compatible platform for neuronal patterning.
Current tissue engineering strategies in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.	Rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the most common ligamentous injuries of the knee. Limitations of allografts and autografts in ACL reconstruction as well as recent advancements in biology and materials science have spurred interest in developing tissue-engineered ACL replacements that have the potential to mimic the native ACL in terms of both biological and mechanical properties. This article reviews the current literature regarding contemporary tissue engineering strategies. The four basic components of tissue engineering, biomaterial scaffolds, cell sources, growth factors, and mechanical stimuli, as applied to the development of tissue-engineered ACL replacement grafts, will be systematically addressed. In addition, animal models that have been used to test these tissue-engineered ACL replacements will also be reviewed. To date, there is no tissue-engineered ACL construct that has been successfully implanted in humans. We expect that continued progress in designing a viable tissue-engineered ACL replacement will accompany rapidly advancing techniques in materials science and biology.
Biliary epithelial cells play an essential role in the reconstruction of hepatic tissue with a functional bile ductular network.	One of the most challenging issues in liver tissue engineering is the incorporation of a functional bile duct (BD) network in the hepatic tissue. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of a three-dimensional (3D) coculture of adult rat primary biliary epithelial cells (ABECs) and rat fetal liver cells (FLCs) to form functional BD structures. 3D hetero-spheroids containing various ratios of the two cell types were successfully obtained in low-adherence, round-bottom, 96-well plates. Histological analyses and functional analysis using fluorescein diacetate demonstrated that the ABECs critically contributed to the reconstruction of continuous ductular networks. Metabolized fluorescein was transported toward cystic structures in a time- and ABEC ratio-dependent manner. In particular, the duct-like structures containing fluorescein accumulations interlinked the large cystic accumulations. Furthermore, transplantation experiments demonstrated that ABECs, but not FLCs, enabled the establishment of BD networks in vivo. This study provided important insights into the development of transplantable liver tissues with bile excretion functionality. 
Biological baseline of joint self-repair procedures.	Gel-Repairer is a biomaterial composed of Polydeoxyribonucleotides (Pdrn), Heat Shock Proteins (Hsps) and a thickening substance. It works as a local mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) stimulator, finally generating connective tissue renewal. Our research is within the field of regenerative medicine and has historically built its foundation from the studies carried out on non-vital amnion and placental membranes. Our end point is the activation and stimulation of the local mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for the structural recovery of the joint involved in the degenerative process. Since 2003, we have been applying the Gel Repairer over more than 1200 patients, most of them elderly, affected by Degenerative Joint Disease (DJD). After 10 years of clinical experience, the results are really impressive, including the absence of toxicity, adverse reactions or side effects. Our clinical findings allowed the presentation of a clinical preliminary study performed on a large group of patients from 2003 to 2009 and recently published [1]. The following article is aimed at looking into the mechanism of action of the Joint Self-Repair procedure; furthermore some new technical opportunities are presented on tissue engineering advances in this fast evolving sector.
Carbon nanotubes: their potential and pitfalls for bone tissue regeneration and engineering.	The extracellular environment which supports cell life is composed of a hierarchy of maintenance, force and regulatory systems which integrate from the nano- through to macroscale. For this reason, strategies to recreate cell supporting environments have been investigating the use of nanocomposite biomaterials. Here, we review the use of carbon nanotubes as part of a bottom-up approach for use in bone tissue engineering. We evaluate the properties of carbon nanotubes in the context of synthetic tissue substrates and contrast them with the nanoscale features of the extracellular environment. Key studies are evaluated with an emphasis on understanding the mechanisms through which carbon nanotubes interact with biological systems. This includes an examination of how the different properties of carbon nanotubes affect tissue growth, how these properties and variation to them might be leveraged in regenerative tissue therapies and how impurities or contaminates affect their toxicity and biological interaction.
Base structure consisting of an endothelialized vascular-tree network and hepatocytes for whole liver engineering.	Reconstructed liver has been desired as a liver substitute for transplantation. However, reconstruction of a whole liver has not been achieved because construction of a vascular network at an organ scale is very difficult. We focused on decellularized liver (DC-liver) as an artificial scaffold for the construction of a hierarchical vascular network. In this study, we obtained DC-liver and the tubular network structure in which both portal vein and hepatic vein systems remained intact. Furthermore, endothelialization of the tubular structure in DC-liver was achieved, which prevented blood leakage from the tubular structure. In addition, hepatocytes suspended in a collagen sol were injected from the surroundings using a syringe as a suitable procedure for liver cell inoculation. In summary, we developed a base structure consisting of an endothelialized vascular-tree network and hepatocytes for whole liver engineering. 
Peptide-grafted poly(ethylene glycol) hydrogels support dynamic adhesion of endothelial progenitor cells.	This study investigated the dynamic adhesion of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) to peptide-grafted poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEGDA) hydrogels and determined the relative ability of RGDS, REDV and YIGSRG peptides to reduce the velocity of EPC rolling. Circulating EPCs are key mediators of endothelium repair and have been shown to accelerate re-endothelialization, which is important in reducing the incidence of restenosis following stent placement and occlusion of small diameter vascular grafts. However, to exploit these capabilities for tissue engineering applications, more knowledge is needed about EPC binding to the vascular wall under shear and, in particular, whether the incorporation of peptide ligands into biomaterials can support the process of EPC rolling or maintain EPC adhesion. This study specifically examined one type of EPCs endothelial colony forming cells (ECFCs), based on their ability to be expanded in culture and differentiate into mature endothelial cells. The amount of grafted PEG-peptide was shown to be dependent on the concentration of PEG-peptide grafting solution photopolymerized onto the hydrogel surface. The ECFC strength of adhesion on PEG-RDGS grafted hydrogels exceeded 350 dyn cm(-2) for 85% of adherent cells. PEG-RGDS grafted hydrogels supported ECFC rolling, whereas ECFC velocity on the negative control PEG-RGES grafted hydrogels and on the "blank slate" PEGDA hydrogels was substantially higher than the cutoff velocity for cell rolling. The ECFC rolling velocity on PEG-RDGS grafted hydrogels depended on the shear rate; as shear rate was increased from 20 s(-1) to 120 s(-1), ECFC rolling velocity increased from 1033 m s(-1) to 74128 m s(-1). REDV and YIGSRG, which are known to preferentially support endothelial cell adhesion, also supported ECFC rolling. Interestingly, the rolling velocity of ECFCs on PEG-REDV grafted hydrogels was significantly lower than on PEG-YIGSRG or on PEG-RGDS grafted hydrogels. Understanding the dynamic adhesion of ECFCs to peptide-grafted hydrogels is the first step towards understanding the similarities and differences of EPCs from mature endothelial cells and improving the ability to sequester EPCs to biomaterial surfaces in order to promote intravascular re-endothelialization.
Comparison of candidate scaffolds for tissue engineering for stress urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse repair.	To identify candidate materials which have sufficient potential to be taken forward for an in vivo tissue-engineering approach to restoring the tissue structure of the pelvic floor in women with stress urinary incontinence (SUI) or pelvic organ prolapse (POP).
Collagen-gelatin-genipin-hydroxyapatite composite scaffolds colonized by human primary osteoblasts are suitable for bone tissue engineering applications: in vitro evidences.	The application of porous hydroxyapatite (HAp)-collagen as a bone tissue engineering scaffold represents a new trend of mimicking the specific bone extracellular matrix (ECM). The use of HAp in reconstructive surgery has shown that it is slowly invaded by host tissue. Therefore, implant compatibility may be augmented by seeding cells before implantation. Human primary osteoblasts were seeded onto innovative collagen-gelatin-genipin (GP)-HAp scaffolds containing respectively 10%, 20%, and 30% HAp. Cellular adhesion, proliferation, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, osteopontin (OPN), and osteocalcin (OC) expressions were evaluated after 3, 7, 15, and 21 days. The three types of scaffolds showed increased cellular proliferation over time in culture (maximum at 21 days) but the highest was recorded in 10% HAp scaffolds. ALP activity was the highest in 10% HAp scaffolds in all the times of evaluation. OC and OPN resulted in higher concentration in 10% HAp scaffolds compared to 20% and 30% HAp (maximum at 21 days). Finally, scanning electron microscopy analysis showed progressive scaffolds adhesion and colonization from the surface to the inside from day 3 to day 21. In vitro attachment, proliferation, and colonization of human primary osteoblasts on collagen-GP-HAp scaffolds with different percentages of HAp (10%, 20%, and 30%) all increased over time in culture, but comparing different percentages of HAp, they seem to increase with decreasing of HAp component. Therefore, the mechanical properties (such as the stiffness due to the HAp%) coupled with a good biomimetic component (collagen) are the parameters to set up in composite scaffolds design for bone tissue engineering.
Accelerating the early angiogenesis of tissue engineering constructs in vivo by the use of stem cells cultured in matrigel.	In tissue engineering research, generating constructs with an adequate extent of clinical applications remains a major challenge. In this context, rapid blood vessel ingrowth in the transplanted tissue engineering constructs is the key factor for successful incorporation. To accelerate the microvascular development in engineered tissues, we preincubated osteoblast-like cells as well as mesenchymal stem cells or a combination of both cell types in Matrigel-filled PLGA scaffolds before transplantation into the dorsal skinfold chambers of balb/c mice. By the use of preincubated mesenchymal stem cells, a significantly accelerated angiogenesis was achieved. Compared with previous studies that showed a decisive increase of vascularization on day 6 after the implantation, we were able to halve this period and achieve explicitly denser microvascular networks 3 days after transplantation of the tissue engineering constructs. Thereby, the inflammatory host tissue response was acceptable and low, comparable with former investigations. A co-incubation of osteoblast-like cells and stem cells showed no additive effect on the density of the newly formed microvascular network. Preincubation of mesenchymal stem cells in Matrigel is a promising approach to develop rapid microvascular growth into tissue engineering constructs. After the implantation into the host organism, scaffolds comprising stem cells generate microvascular capillary-like structures exceptionally fast. Thereby, transplanted stem cells likely differentiate into vessel-associated cells. For this reason, preincubation of mesenchymal stem cells in nutrient solutions supporting different steps of angiogenesis provides a technique to promote the routine use of tissue engineering in the clinic.
Vascular endothelial growth factor and physiological compressive loading synergistically promote bone formation of tissue-engineered bone.	Angiogenesis and osteogenesis are essential for healing bone injuries, especially those related to critically sized bone defect (CSBD). Bone tissue engineering is a promising method for repairing bone defect, but the inherently poor nutrient supply and the slow osteogenesis of large size defect are two obstacles. This leads to an urgent need to understand how to orchestrate angiogenesis and osteogenesis for promoting bone defect healing. In this article, poly-L-lysine-coated vascular endothelial growth factor/alginate controlled releasing microspheres (VEGF-AG-PLL) were fabricated in tissue-engineered bone (TEB), and then the composite was implanted into the CSBD of goat femurs. Dynamic intramedullary rod was utilized to fixate the femur and produce an analogous physiological axial compression. We found that VEGF released in early stage not only promoted angiogenesis, but also brought benefit to osteogenesis. Meanwhile, in early stage physiological axial compression could regulate angiogenesis and facilitate VEGF release from the composite. In later stage, compression could accelerate reconstruction of TEB. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that the collaborative application of VEGF and compression could accelerate the reconstruction of TEB; thus, providing a new strategy for clinically repairing large bone defect in future. 
Cooperation of endothelial and smooth muscle cells derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells enhances neovascularization in dermal wounds.	Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) are generated through the reprogramming of somatic cells into an embryonic stem cell-like state, such that vascular cells differentiated from hiPSCs might be a suitable autologous cell source for vascular regeneration. The goal of this study was to assess whether cotransplantation of endothelial cells (ECs) and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) differentiated from hiPSCs could promote neovascularization and tissue repair in a murine dermal wound model. hiPSCs were differentiated into ECs and SMCs; the differentiated cells displayed cell-specific surface markers. Compared to primary somatic cells, ECs and SMCs, which were differentiated from hiPSCs, strongly cooperated to enhance in vitro tubular network formation. In vivo gel assays in athymic nude mice showed that the coimplantation of differentiated ECs and SMCs significantly increased vascularization, unlike that observed in the case of implantation of differentiated ECs alone. In a murine full-thickness wound model, when compared with the transplantation of primary somatic cells or phosphate-buffered saline, cotransplantation of differentiated ECs and SMCs markedly enhanced neovascularization in injured tissues and accelerated wound healing. These results demonstrate that cotransplantation of hiPSC-derived ECs and SMCs may be feasible as a new autologous cell therapy for neovascularization and tissue repair. 
Chondrocyte migration affects tissue-engineered cartilage integration by activating the signal transduction pathways involving Src, PLC1, and ERK1/2.	To determine the signal transduction pathways involved in chondrocyte migration and their effects on cartilage integration in autologous chondrocyte implantation. Articular chondrocytes were divided into three inhibitor groups pretreated with different inhibitors to Src, phospholipase C1 (PLC1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 signaling pathways and one control group pretreated with vehicle. The effect of these pathways on chondrocyte migration was first explored by Boyden chamber assay, and then by an in vitro cell/ring integration model. Chondrocyte migration was visualized and quantified by cell tracking, and the activity of Src, PLC1, and ERK1/2 was determined by Western blotting. The effect of these pathways on cartilage integration was evaluated histologically, biochemically, and biomechanically. Boyden chamber assay revealed that the number of migrated cells was significantly increased in the control group without inhibitors. In an in vitro integration model, the implanted chondrocytes were observed to migrate through the interface and infiltrate into the native cartilage. Additionally, chondrocyte migration could be improved in the absence of inhibitors After 4 weeks of culture, the control group demonstrated a significantly higher cellularity, larger amount of chemical content deposition, stronger extracellular matrix staining in the integration zone, and higher integrative strength as compared to the inhibitor groups. Western blotting demonstrated that the Src-PLC1-ERK1/2 signaling pathway was promoted in the integration process. This study is the first to show that the Src-PLC1-ERK1/2 signaling transduction pathway is involved in cartilage tissue integration by affecting chondrocyte migration. Our results raise the importance of the chondrocyte migration enhancement therapy or the development of new agents specifically targeting the pathways to ensure long-term functionality of the restored joint surface. 
Solubilized matrix derived from decellularized liver as a growth factor-immobilizable scaffold for hepatocyte culture.	Tissue engineering requires growth factors, cells and a scaffold to permit effective tissue regeneration. This study focused on the development of a scaffold for liver tissue engineering, because the liver is a central organ for metabolism. We aimed to develop a scaffold to promote expression of liver-specific functions of hepatocytes, with a focus on immobilizing growth factors onto an organ-specific matrix for liver tissue regeneration. Solubilized extracellular matrix from decellularized liver (L-ECM) was obtained following Triton X-100 treatment and consisted of protein and polysaccharide. L-ECM was found to immobilize hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), even in the presence of albumin, with an efficiency of 75%. Additionally, the immobilized HGF on L-ECM film was stably remained in culture condition for 5 days. Immobilized HGF promoted hepatocyte migration, thus indicating that L-ECM-immobilized HGF maintained its native biological activity. Furthermore, L-ECM stimulated the expression of liver-specific functions, including albumin secretion, urea synthesis and ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity, in primary rat hepatocytes cultured in growth factor-free medium. In summary, L-ECM has the potential to become an effective material in the field of regenerative medicine. 
Human iPSC-derived neural crest stem cells promote tendon repair in a rat patellar tendon window defect model.	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great potential for cell therapy and tissue engineering. Neural crest stem cells (NCSCs) are multipotent that are capable of differentiating into mesenchymal lineages. In this study, we investigated whether iPSC-derived NCSCs (iPSC-NCSCs) have potential for tendon repair. Human iPSC-NCSCs were suspended in fibrin gel and transplanted into a rat patellar tendon window defect. At 4 weeks post-transplantation, macroscopical observation showed that the repair of iPSC-NCSC-treated tendons was superior to that of non-iPSC-NCSC-treated tendons. Histological and mechanical examinations revealed that iPSC-NCSCs treatment significantly enhanced tendon healing as indicated by the improvement in matrix synthesis and mechanical properties. Furthermore, transplanted iPSC-NCSCs produced fetal tendon-related matrix proteins, stem cell recruitment factors, and tenogenic differentiation factors, and accelerated the host endogenous repair process. This study demonstrates a potential strategy of employing iPSC-derived NCSCs for tendon tissue engineering. 
In vitro and in vivo characterization of porcine acellular dermal matrix for gingival augmentation procedures.	Recently, porcine acellular dermal matrix (PADM) has been proposed as a possible alternative to autogenous grafts in periodontal plastic surgery. The aim of the present study was to investigate the in vitro responses of four different oral cell lines cultured on a novel PADM. Furthermore, tissue reaction to PADM was evaluated histologically after subcutaneous implantation in mice.
Mesenchymal stem cells in oral reconstructive surgery: a systematic review of the literature.	This study evaluated clinical outcomes following intraoperative use of adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in various oral reconstructive procedures. PubMed was searched without language restrictions from 2000 to 2011 using the search words stem cell, oral surgery, tissue engineering, sinus lift, bone regeneration and combinations of these. Inclusion criteria were intraoperative use of MSCs in the study design. Reference lists of the articles found were searched for other related studies. Eighteen clinical trials using MSCs for sinus augmentation were found: five case reports on the repair of large bony defects and six studies on ridge augmentation and healing of alveolar sockets after third molar extraction. The findings suggest that MSCs are capable of producing in vivo bone, re-establishing lost tissue and facilitating placement of dental implants. Use of MSCs would reduce patient morbidity because of a less stressful harvesting technique than that of autogenous bone. The majority of clinical trials indicate that MSCs can produce bone in vivo. However, a satisfactory outcome was not seen in all studies, and due to the diversity of study designs, a 'golden approach' cannot be determined. Before use of MSCs can be considered as a first-choice treatment, more predictable outcomes and better long-term prognoses need to be established. Conventional bone grafting remains the gold standard. 
Assessment of the regenerative potential of allogeneic periodontal ligament stem cells in a rodent periodontal defect model.	The complex microenvironment of the periodontal wound creates many challenges associated with multitissue regeneration of periodontal lesions. Recent characterization of mesenchymal stem cell-like populations residing in periodontal ligament tissues has shown that these cells exhibit features of postnatal stem cells. Despite these advances, a lack of consistency in design of preclinical studies and a limited study of allogeneic transplantation applications has restricted our understanding of their clinical utility in the treatment of periodontal disease. The aim of this study was to assess the regenerative potential of allogeneic periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) in a rat periodontal fenestration defect mode and to identify an optimal end time-point suitable for quantitative assessment of tissue regeneration.
Preparation of stripe-patterned heterogeneous hydrogel sheets using microfluidic devices for high-density coculture of hepatocytes and fibroblasts.	Here we demonstrate the production of stripe-patterned heterogeneous hydrogel sheets for the high-density 3D coculture of multiple cell types, by using microchannel-combined micronozzle devices. The prepared hydrogel sheet, composed of multiple regions with varying physical stiffness, regulates the direction of proliferation of encapsulated cells and enables the formation of arrays of rod-like heterotypic organoids inside the hydrogel matrix. We successfully prepared stripe-patterned hydrogel sheets with a uniform thickness of ~100 m and a width of several millimeters. Hepatoma cells (HepG2) and fibroblasts (Swiss 3T3) were embedded inside the hydrogel matrix and cocultured, to form heterotypic micro-organoids mimicking in vivo hepatic cord structures. The upregulation of hepatic functions by the 3D coculture was confirmed by analyzing liver-specific functions. The presented heterogeneous hydrogel sheet could be useful, as it provides relatively large, but precisely-controlled, 3-dimensional microenvironments for the high-density coculture of multiple types of cells.
Xeno-free and shrinkage-free preparation of scaffold-free cartilage-like disc-shaped cell sheet using human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells.	Aiming for the clinical application of cartilage regeneration, the xeno-free cultivation method to obtain a scaffold-free cartilage-like disc-shaped cell sheet using mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from human bone marrow without the shrinkage of the sheet was investigated. MSCs were inoculated into Cell Culture Insert (0.3 cm(2), pore size; 0.4 m, pore density; 1.0  10(8)/cm(2)) using serum-free chondrogenic differentiation medium containing TGF-3, IGF-1 and dexamethasone or other modified media, and cultured at 37 C in 5% CO2 for 3 weeks. Sheet thickness, cartilage specific genes expression, ECM accumulation were determined, and the sections of sheets were stained with alcian blue. A novel mixed medium consisting of a growth medium (10% FCS) with a serum-free chondrogenic differentiation medium could prevent the shrinkage of the sheet and produced a disc-shaped cell sheet. The depth of the sheet was approximately 0.7 mm and the gene expression levels were higher than those in cells in normal human cartilage. The use of human serum instead of FCS did not cause shrinkage and did not decrease the accumulation levels of sGAG and type 2 collagen in the sheet. The cultivation of MSCs grown with completely xeno-free materials using the mixed medium containing human serum in a cell culture insert showed a sheet depth of 1.0 mm and gene expression levels higher than those in normal cartilage. The scaffold-free and xeno-free cartilage-like cell sheet was successfully formed without shrinkage using human bone marrow MSCs and the chondrogenic differentiation medium containing human serum.
A new era: endoscopic tissue transplantation.	To describe basic principles of tissue engineering with emphasis on the potential role of gastrointestinal endoscopy in regenerative medicine.
Tissue-engineered bone formation in vivo for artificial laminae of the vertebral arch using -tricalcium phosphate bioceramics seeded with mesenchymal stem cells.	A rabbit laminectomy model was used to evaluate the efficacy of artificial laminae of vertebral arch using bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) transplanted in porous beta-calcium phosphates (-TCP) bioceramics.
Reprogramming of mesenchymal stem cells derived from iPSCs seeded on biofunctionalized calcium phosphate scaffold for bone engineering.	Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived mesenchymal stem cells (iPSC-MSCs) are a promising choice of patient-specific stem cells with superior capability of cell expansion. There has been no report on bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP2) gene modification of iPSC-MSCs for bone tissue engineering. The objectives of this study were to: (1) genetically modify iPSC-MSCs for BMP2 delivery; and (2) to seed BMP2 gene-modified iPSC-MSCs on calcium phosphate cement (CPC) immobilized with RGD for bone tissue engineering. iPSC-MSCs were infected with green fluorescence protein (GFP-iPSC-MSCs), or BMP2 lentivirus (BMP2-iPSC-MSCs). High levels of GFP expression were detected and more than 68% of GFP-iPSC-MSCs were GFP positive. BMP2-iPSC-MSCs expressed higher BMP2 levels than iPSC-MSCs in quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA assays (p < 0.05). BMP2-iPSC-MSCs did not compromise growth kinetics and cell cycle stages compared to iPSC-MSCs. After 14 d in osteogenic medium, ALP activity of BMP2-iPSC-MSCs was 1.8 times that of iPSC-MSCs (p < 0.05), indicating that BMP2 gene transduction of iPSC-MSCs enhanced osteogenic differentiation. BMP2-iPSC-MSCs were seeded on CPC scaffold biofunctionalized with RGD (RGD-CPC). BMP2-iPSC-MSCs attached well on RGD-CPC. At 14 d, COL1A1 expression of BMP2-iPSC-MSCs was 1.9 times that of iPSC-MSCs. OC expression of BMP2-iPSC-MSCs was 2.3 times that of iPSC-MSCs. Bone matrix mineralization by BMP2-iPSC-MSCs was 1.8 times that of iPSC-MSCs at 21 d. In conclusion, iPSC-MSCs seeded on CPC were suitable for bone tissue engineering. BMP2 gene-modified iPSC-MSCs on RGD-CPC underwent osteogenic differentiation, and the overexpression of BMP2 in iPSC-MSCs enhanced differentiation and bone mineral production on RGD-CPC. BMP2-iPSC-MSC seeding on RGD-CPC scaffold is promising to enhance bone regeneration efficacy.
The role of microscaffold properties in controlling the collagen assembly in 3D dermis equivalent using modular tissue engineering.	The realization of thick and viable tissues equivalents in vitro is one of the mayor challenges in tissue engineering, in particular for their potential use in tissue-on-chip technology. In the present study we succeeded in creating 3D viable dermis equivalent tissue, via a bottom-up method, and proved that the final properties, in terms of collagen assembly and organization of the 3D tissue, are tunable and controllable by micro-scaffold properties and degradation rate. Gelatin porous microscaffolds with controlled stiffness and degradation rate were realized by changing the crosslinking density through different concentrations of glyceraldehyde. Results showed that by modulating the crosslinking density of the gelatin microscaffolds it is possible to guide the process of collagen deposition and assembly within the extracellular space and match the processes of scaffold degradation, cell traction and tissue maturation to obtain firmer collagen network able to withstand the effect of contraction.
Induction of chondrogenic differentiation in mesenchymal stem cells by TGF-beta cross-linked to collagen-PLLA [poly(L-lactic acid)] scaffold by transglutaminase 2.	Transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking has been employed to optimize the mechanical properties and stability of tissue scaffolds. We have characterized tissue transglutaminase (TG2)-mediated cross-linking as a useful tool to deliver biologically-active TGF to mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and direct their differentiation towards a chondrogenic lineage. TGF-3 is irreversibly cross-linked by TG2 to collagen type II-coated poly(L-lactic acid) nanofibrous scaffolds and activates Smad phosphorylation and Smad-dependent expression of a luciferase reporter. Human bone marrow-derived MSCs cultured on these scaffolds deposit cartilaginous matrix after 14 days of culture at 50 % efficiency compared to chondrogenesis in the presence of soluble TGF-3. These findings are significant because they suggest a novel approach for the programming of MSCs in a spatially controlled manner by immobilizing biologically active TGF-3 via cross-linking to a collagen-coated polymeric scaffold.
Functions of exogenous application of connective tissue growth factor in stimulating human dermal papilla cells and human hair follicle outer root sheath cells for reconstructive tissue-engineering hair follicles]	To explore the functions of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in the restoration of hair follicles with a mixture of human dermal papilla cells and human hair follicle outer root sheath cells in vitro in nude mice.
Design of composite scaffolds and three-dimensional shape analysis for tissue-engineered ear.	Engineered cartilage is a promising option for auricular reconstruction. We have previously demonstrated that a titanium wire framework within a composite collagen ear-shaped scaffold helped to maintain the gross dimensions of the engineered ear after implantation, resisting the deformation forces encountered during neocartilage maturation and wound healing. The ear geometry was redesigned to achieve a more accurate aesthetic result when implanted subcutaneously in a nude rat model. A non-invasive method was developed to assess size and shape changes of the engineered ear in three dimensions. Computer models of the titanium framework were obtained from CT scans before and after implantation. Several parameters were measured including the overall length, width and depth, the minimum intrahelical distance and overall curvature values for each beam section within the framework. Local curvature values were measured to gain understanding of the bending forces experienced by the framework structure in situ. Length and width changed by less than 2%, whereas the depth decreased by approximately 8% and the minimum intrahelical distance changed by approximately 12%. Overall curvature changes identified regions most susceptible to deformation. Eighty-nine per cent of local curvature measurements experienced a bending moment less than 50 N-m owing to deformation forces during implantation. These quantitative shape analysis results have identified opportunities to improve shape fidelity of engineered ear constructs. 
Modeling of the migration of endothelial cells on bioactive micropatterned polymers.	In this paper, a macroscopic model describing endothelial cell migration on bioactive micropatterned polymers is presented. It is based on a system of partial differential equations of Patlak-Keller-Segel type that describes the evolution of the cell densities. The model is studied mathematically and numerically. We prove existence and uniqueness results of the solution to the differential system. We also show that fundamental physical properties such as mass conservation, positivity and boundedness of the solution are satisfied. The numerical study allows us to show that the modeling results are in good agreement with the experiments. 
The role of peripheral nerve ECM components in the tissue engineering nerve construction.	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is the naturally occurring substrate that provides a support structure and an attachment site for cells. It also produces a biological signal, which plays an important role in and has significant impact on cell adhesion, migration, proliferation, differentiation, and gene expression. Peripheral nerve repair is a complicated process involving Schwann cell proliferation and migration, 'bands of Bngner' formation, and newborn nerve extension. In the ECM of peripheral nerves, macromolecules are deposited among cells; these constitute the microenvironment of Schwann cell growth. Such macromolecules include collagen (I, III, IV, V), laminin, fibronectin, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), and other nerve factors. Collagen, the main component of ECM, provides structural support and guides newborn neurofilament extension. Laminin, fibronectin, CSPGs, and neurotrophic factors, are promoters or inhibitors, playing different roles in nerve repair after injury. By a chemical decellularization process, acellular nerve allografting eliminates the antigens responsible for allograft rejection and maintains most of the ECM components, which can effectively guide and enhance nerve regeneration. Thus, the composition and features of peripheral nerve ECM suggest its superiority as nerve repair material. This review focuses on the structure, function, and application in the tissue engineering nerve construction of the peripheral nerve ECM components.
Hemocompatible surface of electrospun nanofibrous scaffolds by ATRP modification.	The electrospun scaffolds are potential application in vascular tissue engineering since they can mimic the nano-sized dimension of natural extracellular matrix (ECM). We prepared a fibrous scaffold from polycarbonateurethane (PCU) by electrospinning technology. In order to improve the hydrophilicity and hemocompatibility of the fibrous scaffold, poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate (PEGMA) was grafted onto the fiber surface by surface-initiated atom transfer radical polymerization (SI-ATRP) method. Although SI-ATRP has been developed and used for surface modification for many years, there are only few studies about the modification of electrospun fiber by this method. The modified fibrous scaffolds were characterized by SEM, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The scaffold morphology showed no significant difference when PEGMA was grafted onto the scaffold surface. Based on the water contact angle measurement, the surface hydrophilicity of the scaffold surface was improved significantly after grafting hydrophilic PEGMA (P=0.0012). The modified surface showed effective resistance for platelet adhesion compared with the unmodified surface. Activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of the PCU-g-PEGMA scaffold was much longer than that of the unmodified PCU scaffold. The cyto-compatibility of electrospun nanofibrous scaffolds was tested by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). The images of 7-day cultured cells on the scaffold surface were observed by SEM. The modified scaffolds showed high tendency to induce cell adhesion. Moreover, the cells reached out pseudopodia along the fibrous direction and formed a continuous monolayer. Hemolysis test showed that the grafted chains of PEGMA reduced blood coagulation. These results indicated that the modified electrospun nanofibrous scaffolds were potential application as artificial blood vessels. 
Thermal-crosslinked porous chitosan scaffolds for soft tissue engineering applications.	The aim of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of using a steam autoclave process for sterilization and simultaneously thermal-crosslinking of lyophilized chitosan scaffolds. This process is of great interest in biomaterial development due to its simplicity and low toxicity. The steam autoclave process had no significant effect on the average pore diameter (~70 m) and overall porosity (>80%) of the resultant chitosan scaffolds, while the sterilized scaffolds possessed more homogenous pore size distribution. The sterilized chitosan scaffolds exhibited an enhanced compressive modulus (109.8 kPa) and comparable equilibrium swelling ratio (23.3). The resultant chitosan scaffolds could be used directly for in vitro cell culture without extra sterilization. The data of in vitro studies demonstrated that the scaffolds facilitated cell attachment and proliferation, indicating great potential for soft tissue engineering applications.
Microstructure and characteristic properties of gelatin/chitosan scaffold prepared by a combined freeze-drying/leaching method.	A combined freeze-drying and particulate leaching method for scaffold synthesis showed an improvement in the horizontal microstructure of the gelatin/chitosan scaffolds. Type and concentration of the cross-linking agent, freezing temperature, concentration of the polymeric solution and gelatin/chitosan weight ratio were the variables affecting the scaffold properties. Assessment of the tensile properties of the scaffolds revealed that for a scaffold with 50% chitosan, glutaraldehyde, as a cross-linking agent, created much tighter polymeric network compared to N,N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethyl carbodiimide (EDC). However, in the case of gelatin scaffolds, EDC was identified as the stronger cross-linker. Compressive behavior of the scaffolds satisfied formulations obtained from the theoretical modeling of the low-density, elastomeric foams. The investigation of the scaffold degradation indicated that the increase in the mechanical strength of the scaffolds would not always reduce their degradation rate. 
Fabrication and characterization of scaffold from cadaver goat-lung tissue for skin tissue engineering applications.	The present study aims to fabricate scaffold from cadaver goat-lung tissue and evaluate it for skin tissue engineering applications. Decellularized goat-lung scaffold was fabricated by removing cells from cadaver goat-lung tissue enzymatically, to have cell-free 3D-architecture of natural extracellular matrix. DNA quantification assay and Hematoxylin and eosin staining confirmed the absence of cellular material in the decellularized lung-tissue. SEM analysis of decellularized scaffold shows the intrinsic porous structure of lung tissue with well-preserved pore-to-pore interconnectivity. FTIR analysis confirmed non-denaturation and well maintainance of collagenous protein structure of decellularized scaffold. MTT assay, SEM analysis and H&E staining of human skin-derived Mesenchymal Stem cell, seeded over the decellularized scaffold, confirms stem cell attachment, viability, biocompatibility and proliferation over the decellularized scaffold. Expression of Keratin18 gene, along with CD105, CD73 and CD44, by human skin-derived Mesenchymal Stem cells over decellularized scaffold signifies that the cells are viable, proliferating and migrating, and have maintained their critical cellular functions in the presence of scaffold. Thus, overall study proves the applicability of the goat-lung tissue derived decellularized scaffold for skin tissue engineering applications. 
Electrospun adherent-antiadherent bilayered membranes based on cross-linked hyaluronic acid for advanced tissue engineering applications.	A procedure to obtain electrospun mats of hyaluronic acid (HA) stable in aqueous media in one single step has been developed. It consists in combining an HA solution with a divinyl sulfone one as cross-linker in a three-way valve to immediately electroblow their mixture. Membranes obtained with this method, after sterilization and conditioning, are ready to use in cell culture without need of any additional post-treatment. HA nanofibers are deposited onto previously electrospun poly(l-lactic acid) (PLLA) mats in order to obtain stably joined bilayered membranes with an adherent face and the opposite face non-adherent, despite their different hydrophilicity and mechanical properties. These bilayered HA/PLLA membranes may be of use, for example, in applications seeking to transplant cells on a tissue surface and keep them protected from the environment: the PLLA nanofiber face is cell friendly and promotes cell attachment and spreading and can thus be used as a cell supply vehicle, while the HA face hinders cell adhesion and thus may prevent post-surgical adherences, a major issue in many surgeries. 
Effect of different sintering methods on bioactivity and release of proteins from PLGA microspheres.	Macromolecule release from poly(d,l-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) microspheres has been well-characterized, and is a popular approach for delivering bioactive signals from tissue-engineered scaffolds. However, the effect of some processing solvents, sterilization, and mineral incorporation (when used in concert) on long-term release and bioactivity has seldom been addressed. Understanding these effects is of significant importance for microsphere-based scaffolds, given that these scaffolds are becoming increasingly more popular, yet growth factor activity following sintering and/or sterilization is heretofore unknown. The current study evaluated the 6-week release of transforming growth factor (TGF)-3 and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 from PLGA and PLGA/hydroxyapatite (HAp) microspheres following exposure to ethanol (EtOH), dense phase carbon dioxide (CO2), or ethylene oxide (EtO). EtO was chosen based on its common use in scaffold sterilization, whereas EtOH and CO2 were chosen given their importance in sintering microspheres together to create scaffolds. Release supernatants were then used in an accelerated cell stimulation study with human bone marrow stromal cells (hBMSCs) with monitoring of gene expression for major chondrogenic and osteogenic markers. Results indicated that in microspheres without HAp, EtOH exposure led to the greatest amount of delivery, while those treated with CO2 delivered the least growth factor. In contrast, formulations with HAp released almost half as much protein, regardless of EtOH or CO2 exposure. Notably, EtO exposure was not found to significantly affect the amount of protein released. Cell stimulation studies demonstrated that eluted protein samples performed similarly to positive controls in PLGA-only formulations, and ambiguously in PLGA/HAp composites. In conclusion, the use of EtOH, subcritical CO2, and EtO in microsphere-based scaffolds may have only slight adverse effects, and possibly even desirable effects in some cases, on protein availability and bioactivity. 
Biomimetic composite scaffolds based mineralization of hydroxyapatite on electrospun calcium-containing poly(vinyl alcohol) nanofibers.	Nanocomposite materials consisting of polymer matrix and inorganic salts in the form of nanocrystals of hydroxyapatite (HA) are regarded as superior candidates for bone treatment. A biomimetic nanocomposite scaffold with HA formation on the electrospun poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) nanofibrous structure by employing a Ca-P alternate soaking method was developed in this work. The calcium-containing PVA nanofibers were prepared by adding calcium nitrate to the starting solution prior to electrospinning, and then mineralized by Ca-P treatment in incubation solution. With this rapid and effective procedure, a continuous biomimetic crystalline HA layer could be formed successfully without the need of a prior chemical modification of the substrate surface under very mild reaction conditions. Moreover, the HA formed with a relatively accelerated growth had a carbonated and poor crystalline structure, resembling biological apatite in the bone mineral. The introduction of calcium ions in nanofibers by electrospinning was a favorable approach to induce the deposition of calcium phosphate and improve the distribution, nucleation, and growth of crystalline HA layer on nanofibrous scaffolds. Bioactivity tests revealed that these mineralized PVA/HA composite scaffolds improved the biocompatibility. The porous polymer/HA composite scaffolds produced in the present study might have potential applications in bone tissue engineering. 
Development and characterization of coaxially electrospun gelatin coated poly (3-hydroxybutyric acid) thin films as potential scaffolds for skin regeneration.	The morphology of fibers synthesized through electrospinning has been found to mimic extracellular matrix. Coaxially electrospun fibers of gelatin (sheath) coated poly (3-hydroxybutyric acid) (PHB) (core) was developed using 2,2,2 trifluoroethanol(TFE) and 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoro-2-propanol(HFIP) as solvents respectively. The coaxial structure and coating of gelatin with PHB fibers was confirmed through transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Thermal stability of the coaxially electrospun fibers was analyzed using thermogravimetric analysis(TGA), differential scanning calorimetry(DSC) and differential thermogravimetric analysis(DTA). Complete evaporation of solvent and gelatin grafting over PHB fibers was confirmed through attenuated total reflection-Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR). The coaxially electrospun fibers exhibited competent tensile properties for skin regeneration with high surface area and porosity. In vitro degradation studies proved the stability of fibers and its potential applications in tissue engineering. The fibers supported the growth of human dermal fibroblasts and keratinocytes with normal morphology indicating its potential as a scaffold for skin regeneration. 
Bioactive polymeric-ceramic hybrid 3D scaffold for application in bone tissue regeneration.	The regeneration of large bone defects remains a challenging scenario from a therapeutic point of view. In fact, the currently available bone substitutes are often limited by poor tissue integration and severe host inflammatory responses, which eventually lead to surgical removal. In an attempt to address these issues, herein we evaluated the importance of alginate incorporation in the production of improved and tunable -tricalcium phosphate (-TCP) and hydroxyapatite (HA) three-dimensional (3D) porous scaffolds to be used as temporary templates for bone regeneration. Different bioceramic combinations were tested in order to investigate optimal scaffold architectures. Additionally, 3D -TCP/HA vacuum-coated with alginate, presented improved compressive strength, fracture toughness and Young's modulus, to values similar to those of native bone. The hybrid 3D polymeric-bioceramic scaffolds also supported osteoblast adhesion, maturation and proliferation, as demonstrated by fluorescence microscopy. To the best of our knowledge this is the first time that a 3D scaffold produced with this combination of biomaterials is described. Altogether, our results emphasize that this hybrid scaffold presents promising characteristics for its future application in bone regeneration. 
Materials science and tissue engineering: repairing the heart.	Heart failure after a myocardial infarction continues to be a leading killer in the Western world. Currently, there are no therapies that effectively prevent or reverse the cardiac damage and negative left ventricular remodeling process that follows a myocardial infarction. Because the heart has limited regenerative capacity, there has been considerable effort to develop new therapies that could repair and regenerate the myocardium. Although cell transplantation alone was initially studied, more recently, tissue engineering strategies using biomaterial scaffolds have been explored. In this review, we cover the different approaches to engineering the myocardium, including cardiac patches, which are invitro-engineered constructs of functional myocardium, and injectable scaffolds, which can either encourage endogenous repair and regeneration or act as vehicles to support the delivery of cells and other therapeutics. 
Heparin-functionalized polymeric biomaterials in tissue engineering and drug delivery applications.	Heparin plays an important role in many biological processes via its interaction with various proteins, and hydrogels and nanoparticles comprising heparin exhibit attractive properties, such as anticoagulant activity, growth factor binding, and antiangiogenic and apoptotic effects, making them great candidates for emerging applications. Accordingly, this review summarizes recent efforts in the preparation of heparin-based hydrogels and formation of nanoparticles, as well as the characterization of their properties and applications. The challenges and future perspectives for heparin-based materials are also discussed. Prospects are promising for heparin-containing polymeric biomaterials in diverse applications ranging from cell carriers for promoting cell differentiation to nanoparticle therapeutics for cancer treatment. 
Primordium of an artificial Bruch's membrane made of nanofibers for engineering of retinal pigment epithelium cell monolayers.	Transplanted retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells hold promise for treatment of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Stargardt disease (SD), but it is conceivable that the degenerated host Bruch's membrane (BM) as a natural substrate for RPE might not optimally support transplanted cell survival with correct cellular organization. We fabricated novel ultrathin three-dimensional (3-D) nanofibrous membranes from collagen type I and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) by an advanced clinical-grade needle-free electrospinning process. The nanofibrillar 3-D networks closely mimicked the fibrillar architecture of the native inner collagenous layer of human BM. Human RPE cells grown on our nanofibrous membranes bore a striking resemblance to native human RPE. They exhibited a correctly orientated monolayer with a polygonal cell shape and abundant sheet-like microvilli on their apical surfaces. RPE cells built tight junctions and expressed RPE65 protein. Flat 2-D PLGA film and cover glass as controls delivered inferior RPE layers. Our nanofibrous membranes may imitate the natural BM to such extent that they allow for the engineering of an in vivo-like human RPE monolayer that maintains the natural biofunctional characteristics. Such ultrathin membranes may provide a promising vehicle for a functional RPE cell monolayer implantation in the subretinal space in patients with AMD or SD.
Rapid fabricating technique for multi-layered human hepatic cell sheets by forceful contraction of the fibroblast monolayer.	Cell sheet engineering is attracting attention from investigators in various fields, from basic research scientists to clinicians focused on regenerative medicine. However, hepatocytes have a limited proliferation potential in vitro, and it generally takes a several days to form a sheet morphology and multi-layered sheets. We herein report our rapid and efficient technique for generating multi-layered human hepatic cell (HepaRG cell) sheets using pre-cultured fibroblast monolayers derived from human skin (TIG-118 cells) as a feeder layer on a temperature-responsive culture dish. Multi-layered TIG-118/HepaRG cell sheets with a thick morphology were harvested on day 4 of culturing HepaRG cells by forceful contraction of the TIG-118 cells, and the resulting sheet could be easily handled. In addition, the human albumin and alpha 1-antitrypsin synthesis activities of TIG-118/HepaRG cells were approximately 1.2 and 1.3 times higher than those of HepaRG cells, respectively. Therefore, this technique is considered to be a promising modality for rapidly fabricating multi-layered human hepatocyte sheets from cells with limited proliferation potential, and the engineered cell sheet could be used for cell transplantation with highly specific functions. 
In situ tissue engineering with synthetic self-assembling peptide nanofiber scaffolds, PuraMatrix, for mucosal regeneration in the rat middle-ear.	Middle-ear mucosa maintains middle-ear pressure. However, the majority of surgical cases exhibit inadequate middle-ear mucosal regeneration, and mucosal transplantation is necessary in such cases. The aim of the present study was to assess the feasibility of transplantation of isolated mucosal cells encapsulated within synthetic self-assembling peptide nanofiber scaffolds using PuraMatrix, which has been successfully used as scaffolding in tissue engineering, for the repair of damaged middle-ear. Middle-ear bullae with mucosa were removed from Sprague Dawley (SD) transgenic rats, transfected with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgene and excised into small pieces, then cultured up to the third passage. After surgical elimination of middle-ear mucosa in SD recipient rats, donor cells were encapsulated within PuraMatrix and transplanted into these immunosuppressed rats. Primary cultured cells were positive for pancytokeratin but not for vimentin, and retained the character of middle-ear epithelial cells. A high proportion of EGFP-expressing cells were found in the recipient middle-ear after transplantation with PuraMatrix, but not without PuraMatrix. These cells retained normal morphology and function, as confirmed by histological examination, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy, and multiplied to form new epithelial and subepithelial layers together with basement membrane. The present study demonstrated the feasibility of transplantation of cultured middle-ear mucosal epithelial cells encapsulated within PuraMatrix for regeneration of surgically eliminated mucosa of the middle-ear in SD rats. 
Spatial patterning of endothelial cells and vascular network formation using ultrasound standing wave fields.	The spatial organization of cells is essential for proper tissue assembly and organ function. Thus, successful engineering of complex tissues and organs requires methods to control cell organization in three dimensions. In particular, technologies that facilitate endothelial cell alignment and vascular network formation in three-dimensional tissue constructs would provide a means to supply essential oxygen and nutrients to newly forming tissue. Acoustic radiation forces associated with ultrasound standing wave fields can rapidly and non-invasively organize cells into distinct multicellular planar bands within three-dimensional collagen gels. Results presented herein demonstrate that the spatial pattern of endothelial cells within three-dimensional collagen gels can be controlled by design of acoustic parameters of the sound field. Different ultrasound standing wave field exposure parameters were used to organize endothelial cells into either loosely aggregated or densely packed planar bands. The rate of vessel formation and the morphology of the resulting endothelial cell networks were affected by the initial density of the ultrasound-induced planar bands of cells. Ultrasound standing wave fields provide a rapid, non-invasive approach to pattern cells in three-dimensions and direct vascular network formation and morphology within engineered tissue constructs. 
Controlling collagen fiber microstructure in three-dimensional hydrogels using ultrasound.	Type I collagen is the primary fibrillar component of the extracellular matrix, and functional properties of collagen arise from variations in fiber structure. This study investigated the ability of ultrasound to control collagen microstructure during hydrogel fabrication. Under appropriate conditions, ultrasound exposure of type I collagen during polymerization altered fiber microstructure. Scanning electron microscopy and second-harmonic generation microscopy revealed decreased collagen fiber diameters in response to ultrasound compared to sham-exposed samples. Results of mechanistic investigations were consistent with a thermal mechanism for the effects of ultrasound on collagen fiber structure. To control collagen microstructure site-specifically, a high frequency, 8.3-MHz, ultrasound beam was directed within the center of a large collagen sample producing dense networks of short, thin collagen fibrils within the central core of the gel and longer, thicker fibers outside the beam area. Fibroblasts seeded onto these gels migrated rapidly into small, circularly arranged aggregates only within the beam area, and clustered fibroblasts remodeled the central, ultrasound-exposed collagen fibrils into dense sheets. These investigations demonstrate the capability of ultrasound to spatially pattern various collagen microstructures within an engineered tissue noninvasively, thus enhancing the level of complexity of extracellular matrix microenvironments and cellular functions achievable within three-dimensional engineered tissues. 
Collagen hydrogels incorporated with surface-aminated mesoporous nanobioactive glass: Improvement of physicochemical stability and mechanical properties is effective for hard tissue engineering.	Collagen (Col) hydrogels have poor physicochemical and mechanical properties and are susceptible to substantial shrinkage during cell culture, which limits their potential applications in hard tissue engineering. Here, we developed novel nanocomposite hydrogels made of collagen and mesoporous bioactive glass nanoparticles (mBGns) with surface amination, and addressed the effects of mBGn addition (Col:mBG = 2:1, 1:1 and 1:2) and its surface amination on the physicochemical and mechanical properties of the hydrogels. The amination of mBGn was shown to enable chemical bonding with collagen molecules. As a result, the nanocomposite hydrogels exhibited a significantly improved physicochemical and mechanical stability. The hydrolytic and enzymatic degradation of the Col-mBGn hydrogels were slowed down due to the incorporation of mBGn and its surface amination. The mechanical properties of the hydrogels, specifically the resistance to loading as well as the stiffness, significantly increased with the addition of mBGn and its aminated form, as assessed by a dynamic mechanical analysis. Mesenchymal stem cells cultivated within the Col-mBGn hydrogels were highly viable, with enhanced cytoskeletal extensions, due to the addition of surface aminated mBGn. While the Col hydrogel showed extensive shrinkage (down to 20% of initial size) during a few days of culture, the shrinkage of the mBGn-added hydrogel was substantially reduced, and the aminated mBGn-added hydrogel had no observable shrinkage over 21 days. Results demonstrated the effective roles of aminated mBGn in significantly improving the physicochemical and mechanical properties of Col hydrogel, which are ultimately favorable for applications in stem cell culture for bone tissue engineering.
Real-time bioluminescence functional imaging for monitoring tissue formation and regeneration.	Real-time bioluminescence functional imaging holds great promise for regenerative medicine because it improves the researcher's ability to analyze and understand the healing process. Using transgenic mice coupled with gene-modified cells, one can employ this method to monitor host and graft activity in various models of tissue regeneration. We implemented real-time bioluminescence functional imaging to analyze bone formation by following a unique protocol in which the luciferase reporter gene, driven by an osteocalcin promoter, is used to visualize host and graft activity during bone formation. Real-time bioluminescence functional imaging can be used to assess the "host reaction" in transgenic mice models; it can also be used to assess "graft activity" in other animals in which genetically labeled stem cells have been implanted or direct gene delivery has been applied. The suggested imaging protocol requires 25 min per sample. However, special attention must be given to the layout of the experimental design, which determines the specific activity that will be analyzed. 
Information generation and processing systems that regulate periodontal structure and function.	The periodontium is a very dynamic organ that responds rapidly to mechanical and chemical stimuli. It is very complex in that it is composed of two hard tissues (cementum and bone) and two soft connective tissues (periodontal ligament and gingiva). Together these tissues are defined by the molecules expressed by the resident periodontal cells in each compartment and this determines not only the structure and function of the periodontium but also how it responds to infection and inflammation. The biological activity of these molecules is tightly regulated in time and space to preserve tissue homeostasis, influence inflammatory responses and participate in tissue regeneration. In this issue of Periodontology 2000 we explore new experimental approaches and data sets which help to understand the molecules and cells that regulate tissue form and structure in health, disease and regeneration. 
Combining self-assembling peptide gels with three-dimensional elastomer scaffolds.	Some of the problems raised by the combination of porous scaffolds and self-assembling peptide (SAP) gels as constructs for tissue engineering applications are addressed for the first time. Scaffolds of poly(ethyl acrylate) and the SAP gel RAD16-I were employed. The in situ gelation of the SAP gel inside the pores of the scaffolds was studied. The scaffold-cum-gel constructs were characterized morphologically, physicochemically and mechanically. The possibility of incorporating an active molecule (bovine serum albumin, taken here as a model molecule for others) in the gel within the scaffold's pores was assessed, and the kinetics of its release in phosphate-buffered saline was followed. Cell seeding and colonization of these constructs were preliminarily studied with L929 fibroblasts and subsequently checked with sheep adipose-tissue-derived stem cells intended for further preclinical studies. Static (conventional) and dynamically assisted seedings were compared for bare scaffolds and the scaffold-cum-gel constructs. The SAP gel inside the pores of the scaffold significantly improved the uniformity and density of cell colonization of the three-dimensional (3-D) structure. These constructs could be of use in different advanced tissue engineering applications, where, apart from a cell-friendly extracellular matrix -like aqueous environment, a larger-scale 3-D structure able to keep the cells in a specific place, give mechanical support and/or conduct spatially the tissue growth could be required.
Sculpting the blank slate: how fibrin's support of vascularization can inspire biomaterial design.	Fibrin is the primary extracellular constituent of blood clots, and plays an important role as a provisional matrix during wound healing and tissue remodeling. Fibrin-based biomaterials have proven their utility as hemostatic therapies, scaffolds for tissue engineering, vehicles for controlled release, and platforms for culturing and studying cells in three dimensions. Nevertheless, fibrin presents a complex milieu of signals to embedded cells, many of which are not well understood. Synthetic extracellular matrices (ECMs) provide a blank slate that can ostensibly be populated with specific bioactive cues, including growth factors, growth factor binding motifs, adhesive peptides and peptide crosslinks susceptible to proteases, thereby enabling a degree of customization for specific applications. However, the continued evolution and improvement of synthetic ECMs requires parallel efforts to deconstruct native ECMs and decipher the cues they provide to constituent cells. The objective of this review is to reintroduce fibrin, a protein with a well-characterized structure and biochemistry, and its ability to support angiogenesis specifically. Although fibrin's structure-function relationships have been studied for decades, opportunities to engineer new and improved synthetic hydrogels can be realized by further exploiting fibrin's inspiring design. 
Multiaxial mechanical response and constitutive modeling of esophageal tissues: Impact on esophageal tissue engineering.	Congenital defects of the esophagus are relatively frequent, with 1 out of 2500 babies suffering from such a defect. A new method of treatment by implanting tissue engineered esophagi into newborns is currently being developed and tested using ovine esophagi. For the reconstruction of the biological function of native tissues with engineered esophagi, their cellular structure as well as their mechanical properties must be considered. Since very limited mechanical and structural data for the esophagus are available, the aim of this study was to investigate the multiaxial mechanical behavior of the ovine esophagus and the underlying microstructure. Therefore, uniaxial tensile, biaxial tensile and extension-inflation tests on esophagi were performed. The underlying microstructure was examined in stained histological sections through standard optical microscopy techniques. Moreover, the uniaxial ultimate tensile strength and residual deformations of the tissue were determined. Both the mucosa-submucosa and the muscle layers showed nonlinear and anisotropic mechanical behavior during uniaxial, biaxial and inflation testing. Cyclical inflation of the intact esophageal tube caused marked softening of the passive esophagi in the circumferential direction. The rupture strength of the mucosa-submucosa layer was much higher than that of the muscle layer. Overall, the ovine esophagus showed a heterogeneous and anisotropic behavior with different mechanical properties for the individual layers. The intact and layer-specific multiaxial properties were characterized using a well-known three-dimensional microstructurally based strain-energy function. This novel and complete set of data serves the basis for a better understanding of tissue remodeling in diseased esophagi and can be used to perform computer simulations of surgical interventions or medical-device applications.
Biocompatibility effects of indirect exposure of base-metal dental casting alloys to a human-derived three-dimensional oral mucosal model.	The study employed a three-dimensional (3D) human-derived oral mucosal model to assess the biocompatibility of base-metal dental casting alloys ubiquitous in fixed prosthodontic and orthodontic dentistry.
Micropatterned dermal-epidermal regeneration matrices create functional niches that enhance epidermal morphogenesis.	Although tissue engineered skin substitutes have demonstrated some clinical success for the treatment of chronic wounds such as diabetic and venous ulcers, persistent graft take and stability remain concerns. Current bilayered skin substitutes lack the characteristic microtopography of the dermal-epidermal junction that gives skin enhanced mechanical stability and creates cellular microniches that differentially promote keratinocyte function to form skin appendages and enhance wound healing. We developed a novel micropatterned dermal-epidermal regeneration matrix (DERM) which incorporates this complex topography and substantially enhances epidermal morphology. Here, we describe the use of this three-dimensional (3-D) in vitro culture model to systematically evaluate different topographical geometries and to determine their relationship to keratinocyte function. We identified three distinct keratinocyte functional niches: the proliferative niche (narrow geometries), the basement membrane protein synthesis niche (wide geometries) and the putative keratinocyte stem cell niche (narrow geometries and corners). Specifically, epidermal thickness and keratinocyte proliferation is significantly (p<0.05) increased in 50 and 100 m channels while laminin-332 deposition is significantly (p<0.05) increased in 400 m channels compared to flat controls. Additionally, 1(bri)p63(+) keratinocytes, putative keratinocyte stem cells, preferentially cluster in channel geometries (similar to clustering observed in native skin) compared to a random distribution on flats. This study identifies specific target geometries to enhance skin regeneration and graft performance. Furthermore, these results suggest the importance of DERM microtopography in designing the next generation of skin substitutes. Finally, we anticipate that 3-D organotypic cultures on DERMS will provide a novel tissue engineered skin substitute for in vitro investigations of skin morphogenesis, wound healing and pathology.
Urinary bladder matrix promotes site appropriate tissue formation following right ventricle outflow tract repair.	The current prevalence and severity of heart defects requiring functional replacement of cardiac tissue pose a serious clinical challenge. Biologic scaffolds are an attractive tissue engineering approach to cardiac repair because they avoid sensitization associated with homograft materials and theoretically possess the potential for growth in similar patterns as surrounding native tissue. Both urinary bladder matrix (UBM) and cardiac ECM (C-ECM) have been previously investigated as scaffolds for cardiac repair with modest success, but have not been compared directly. In other tissue locations, bone marrow derived cells have been shown to play a role in the remodeling process, but this has not been investigated for UBM in the cardiac location, and has never been studied for C-ECM. The objectives of the present study were to compare the effectiveness of an organ-specific C-ECM patch with a commonly used ECM scaffold for myocardial tissue repair of the right ventricle outflow tract (RVOT), and to examine the role of bone marrow derived cells in the remodeling response. A chimeric rat model in which all bone marrow cells express green fluorescent protein (GFP) was generated and used to show the ability of ECM scaffolds derived from the heart and bladder to support cardiac function and cellular growth in the RVOT. The results from this study suggest that urinary bladder matrix may provide a more appropriate substrate for myocardial repair than cardiac derived matrices, as shown by differences in the remodeling responses following implantation, as well as the presence of site appropriate cells and the formation of immature, myocardial tissue. 
Tissue-engineered mesh for pelvic floor reconstruction fabricated from silk fibroin scaffold with adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells.	A tissue-engineered mesh fabricated with adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (AD-MSCs) cultured on a silk fibroin scaffold is evaluated for use in female pelvic reconstruction. Thirty-five female Sprague Dawley rats were divided into four groups. Group A (n = 10) were implanted with polypropylene meshes, Group B (n = 10) with silk fibroin scaffolds and Group C (n = 10) with tissue-engineered meshes. Group D (n = 5) acted as the tissue control. The tissue-engineered mesh was produced as follows. AD-MSCs were obtained from adipose tissue of rats designated to Group C. The cells were seeded onto a silk fibroin scaffold, cultured and then observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Histological studies of these meshes were performed at 4 and 12 weeks after implantation and mechanical testing was carried out on all groups before implantation and at 12 weeks after implantation. AD-MSCs displayed fibroblast-like shapes and were able to differentiate into adipocytes or fibroblasts. SEM observation showed that AD-MSCs proliferated and secreted a matrix onto the silk fibroin scaffolds. After implantation of the scaffolds into rats, histological analysis revealed better organized newly formed tissue in Group C than in controls. Group C also had a similar failure force (2.67  0.15 vs 2.33  0.38 N) and a higher Young's modulus (2.99  0.19 vs 1.68  0.20 MPa) than a normal vaginal wall, indicating the potential of this tissue-engineered approach. AD-MSCs were validated as seed cells for tissue engineering. The silk fibroin scaffold thus shows promise for application with AD-MSCs in the fabrication of tissue-engineered mesh with good biocompatibility and appropriate mechanical properties for pelvic floor reconstruction.
Physical forces make rete ridges in oral mucosa.	Rete ridge has important functions in the epidermis, but the current tissue engineered oral mucosa or skin equivalents are generally lack of this structure. To regenerate a rete ridge structure in the oral mucosa equivalents, we firstly attempted to make clear how rete ridge is formed in the oral mucosa and the preliminary study disclosed the mechanical stress evoked the morphogenesis of rete ridge. In this paper, we make a hypothesis that the morphogenesis of rete ridge is elicited by the physical forces and proceed with the internal pushing forces derived from the keratinocyte division, among these process, the activated ERK and PC cascades, accompanied with the MMPs liberated growth factors are working together to induce the keratinocyte proliferation, these cell divisions produced internal forces, which not only push the keratinocyte stem cells and progenitor cells to migrate in the contrary directions but also in turn to activate the ERK and PC cascades, meanwhile, the activated MMPs degrade the ECM of lamina propria, under these internal pushing forces and the remodeling of lamina propria, rete ridge is gradually formed. This hypothesis gives us the possibility to regenerate the rete ridge structure in the tissue engineered oral mucosa or skin equivalents through simulating the morphogenesis of rete ridge. 
Repair of segmental long-bone defects by stem cell concentrate augmented scaffolds: a clinical and positron emission tomography--computed tomography analysis.	Treating segmental long-bone defects remains a major challenge. For defects >3 cm, segmental transport represents the gold standard, even though the method is time consuming and afflicted with several complications. The aim of this study was to evaluate healing of such defects after grafting an osteogenic scaffold previously seeded with stem cell concentrate.
Engineering bone grafts with enhanced bone marrow and native scaffolds.	The translation of tissue engineering approaches to the clinic has been hampered by the inability to find suitable multipotent cell sources requiring minimal in vitro expansion. Enhanced bone marrow (eBM), which is obtained by reaming long bone medullary canals and isolating the solid marrow putty, has large quantities of stem cells and demonstrates significant potential to regenerate bone tissues. eBM, however, cannot impart immediate load-bearing mechanical integrity or maintain the gross anatomical structure to guide bone healing. Yet, its putty-like consistency creates a challenge for obtaining the uniform seeding necessary to effectively combine it with porous scaffolds. In this study, we examined the potential for combining eBM with mechanically strong, osteoinductive trabecular bone scaffolds for bone regeneration by creating channels into scaffolds for seeding the eBM. eBM was extracted from the femurs of adult Yorkshire pigs using a Synthes reamer-irrigator-aspirator device, analyzed histologically, and digested to extract cells and characterize their differentiation potential. To evaluate bone tissue formation, eBM was seeded into the channels in collagen-coated or noncoated scaffolds, cultured in osteogenic conditions for 4 weeks, harvested and assessed for tissue distribution and bone formation. Our data demonstrates that eBM is a heterogenous tissue containing multipotent cell populations. Furthermore, coating scaffolds with a collagen hydrogel significantly enhanced cellular migration, promoted uniform tissue development and increased bone mineral deposition. These findings suggest the potential for generating customized autologous bone grafts for treating critical-sized bone defects by combining a readily available eBM cell source with decellularized trabecular bone scaffolds.
Uniform tricalcium phosphate beads with an open porous structure for tissue engineering.	Uniform tricalcium phosphate (TCP) porous beads with micro and macro pore sizes were fabricated using a simple fluidic device. For micro-porous TCP beads, an aqueous gelatin mixture containing TCP powder was introduced as the discontinuous phase into the fluidic device, where a toluene phase served as the continuous phase. The resulting aqueous TCP droplets were instantly frozen at -20C and freeze-dried, followed by calcination at 1200C. An oil-in-water-in-oil (O/W/O) emulsion templating method was employed to fabricate macro-porous TCP beads. An oil-in-water (O/W) emulsion was introduced into the fluidic device as the discontinuous phase with all other experimental conditions the same as for the micro-porous TCP beads. Uniform macro-porous TCP beads with a highly porous structure were finally obtained after freeze-drying and calcination. Large pore size and good interconnectivity of the macro-porous TCP beads were confirmed by scanning electron microscopy and porosimetry. In addition, penetration of host tissue into the macro-pores of the TCP beads was demonstrated by subcutaneously implanting the two types of porous TCP beads into mice and histologically analyzing stained sections at 1-4 weeks post implantation. The macro-porous TCP beads with a highly open porous structure could potentially be used as an injectable material for bone tissue engineering. 
The possible influence of varying diameter of aligned electrospun fibers on Schwann cells maturation in culture.	The development of Schwann cells, the principal glial cell in the peripheral nervous system, occurs through a series of transitional embryonic and postnatal phases, which are tightly regulated by a number of axonal signals. During the axon ensheathment and myelin growth, the diameter of the axon play an important role in the maturation of Schwann cells. Because of electrospun fibers similar to protein fibers within the native extracellular matrix, the scaffolds are being developed as neural tissue engineering scaffolds. Until now, the correlation between varying diameter of aligned electrospun fibers and Schwann cells maturation has not been investigated. We hypothesize that the different diameter of aligned electrospun fibers may influence the maturation of Schwann cells and may help improve the outcome of cell-based approaches to cure demyelinated lesions or peripheral nerve regeneration. 
Fibrin-based biomaterials: modulation of macroscopic properties through rational design at the molecular level.	Fibrinogen is one of the primary components of the coagulation cascade and rapidly forms an insoluble matrix following tissue injury. In addition to its important role in hemostasis, fibrin acts as a scaffold for tissue repair and provides important cues for directing cell phenotype following injury. Because of these properties and the ease of polymerization of the material, fibrin has been widely utilized as a biomaterial for over a century. Modifying the macroscopic properties of fibrin, such as elasticity and porosity, has been somewhat elusive until recently, yet with a molecular-level rational design approach it can now be somewhat easily modified through alterations of molecular interactions key to the protein's polymerization process. This review outlines the biochemistry of fibrin and discusses methods for modification of molecular interactions and their application to fibrin based biomaterials. 
Fibronectin peptides that bind PDGF-BB enhance survival of cells and tissue under stress.	Stressors after injury from a multitude of factors can lead to cell death. We have identified four fibronectin (FN) peptides: two from the first FN type III repeat (FNIII1), one from the 13th FN type III repeat (FNIII13), and one from FN variable region (IIICS), which when tethered to a surface acted as platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) enhancers to promote cell survival. One of the FNIII1 peptides and its smallest (14-mer) bioactive form (P12) were also active in solution. Specifically, P12 bound PDGF-BB (KD=200 nM), enhanced adult human dermal fibroblast (AHDF) survival under serum starvation, oxidative or endoplasmic reticulum stressors, and limited burn-injury progression in a rat hot comb model. Furthermore, P12 inhibited endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. Although many growth factors have been found to bind FN directly or indirectly, here we identify peptide sequences of growth factor-binding sites in FN. The finding of these peptides further delineated how the extracellular matrix protein FN can support cell survival. As the peptide P12 is active in either soluble form or tethered to a substrate, it will have multifactorial uses as a bioactive peptide by itself or in tissue engineering.
Tissue engineering airway mucosa: a systematic review.	Effective treatments for hollow organ stenosis, scarring, or agenesis are suboptimal or lacking. Tissue-engineered implants may provide a solution, but those performed to date are limited by poor mucosalization after transplantation. We aimed to perform a systematic review of the literature on tissue-engineered airway mucosa. Our objectives were to assess the success of this technology and its potential application to airway regenerative medicine and to determine the direction of future research to maximize its therapeutic and commercial potential.
Compatibility of olfactory ensheathing cells with functionalized self-assembling peptide scaffold in vitro.	Olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) transplantation is a promising or potential therapy for spinal cord injury (SCI). However, the effects of injecting OECs directly into SCI site have been limited and unsatisfied due to the complexity of SCI. To improve the outcome, proper biomaterials are thought to be helpful since these materials would allow the cells to grow three-dimensionally and guide cell migration.
Recent developments of functional scaffolds for craniomaxillofacial bone tissue engineering applications.	Autogenous bone grafting remains a gold standard for the reconstruction critical-sized bone defects in the craniomaxillofacial region. Nevertheless, this graft procedure has several disadvantages such as restricted availability, donor-site morbidity, and limitations in regard to fully restoring the complicated three-dimensional structures in the craniomaxillofacial bone. The ultimate goal of craniomaxillofacial bone reconstruction is the regeneration of the physiological bone that simultaneously fulfills both morphological and functional restorations. Developments of tissue engineering in the last two decades have brought such a goal closer to reality. In bone tissue engineering, the scaffolds are fundamental, elemental and mesenchymal stem cells/osteoprogenitor cells and bioactive factors. A variety of scaffolds have been developed and used as spacemakers, biodegradable bone substitutes for transplanting to the new bone, matrices of drug delivery system, or supporting structures enhancing adhesion, proliferation, and matrix production of seeded cells according to the circumstances of the bone defects. However, scaffolds to be clinically completely satisfied have not been developed yet. Development of more functional scaffolds is required to be applied widely to cranio-maxillofacial bone defects. This paper reviews recent trends of scaffolds for crania-maxillofacial bone tissue engineering, including our studies. 
Laser sintered porous polycaprolacone scaffolds loaded with hyaluronic acid and gelatin-grafted thermoresponsive hydrogel for cartilage tissue engineering.	The aim of this study is to evaluate a soft/hard bi-phase scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering. Chondrocyte proliferation, glycoaminoglycan production and total collagen content are compared between laser-sintered porous polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffolds with and without a thermoresponsive hydrogel grafted with hyaluronic acid and gelatin. The in vitro results show that scaffolds loaded with hydrogel have a higher initial chondrocyte attachment than PCL scaffolds. At day 21 and 28, scaffolds loaded with hydrogel have a significantly higher glycosaminoglycan (GAG) production than PCL scaffolds alone, and total collagen content including collagen type II in the hydrogel-loaded group is three times higher than the group without hydrogel. It is concluded that the laser-sintered porous PCL scaffold has good cytocompatibility, and that the hydrogel phase is able to enhance initial chondrocytes attachment as well as GAG and collagen production of chondrocytes. This study suggests that a soft/hard bi-phase scaffold may be used for cartilage tissue engineering to enhance in vitro chondrogenesis. 
Three-dimensional flow perfusion culture enhances proliferation of human fetal osteoblasts in large scaffold with controlled architecture]	To demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of custom designed perfusion bioreactor in conjunction with well-defined three-dimensional (3D) environment for enhanced proliferation and homogeneous distribution of human fetal osteoblasts in large scaffold in vitro.
Experimental study on transfection of pleiotrophin gene into adipose-derived stem cells of mice]	To study the transfection and expression of pleiotrophin (Ptn) gene in mice adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) so as to provide a new approach for the treatment of ischemic injury.
Concentration- or time-dependent manner of recombinant bone morphogenetic protein 2 in regulating expression of vascular endothelial growth factor]	To study biological rule of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 2 (rhBMP-2) in regulating the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) of adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) at different induced concentrations and time points at gene level and protein level.
Protective effect of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells on islets from hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced injury]	To study the protective effects of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) of rhesus monkeys on porcine islets from hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-induced injury.
Comparative study on combined culture of human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells from same and different individuals]	To investigate the protocols of combined culture of human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells (HPMSCs) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) from the same and different individuals on collagen material,to provide the.
Effect of carboxymethylated chitosan on proliferation and synthesis of neurotrophic factors in Schwann cells in vitro]	To investigate the effect of carboxymethylated chitosan (CMCS) on the proliferation, cell cycle, and secretion of neurotrophic factors in cultured Schwann cells (SCs).
Effect of allogeneic chondrocytes-calcium alginate gel composite under intervention of low intensive pulsed ultrasound for repairing rabbit knee articular cartilage defect]	To investigate the effect of allogeneic chondrocytes-calcium alginate gel composite under the intervention of low intensive pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) for repairing rabbit articular cartilage defects.
Local and systemic safety evaluation of regenerated rabbit bladder repaired with xenogeneous bladder acellular matrix]	To evaluate tissue regeneration, body reaction, and biological safety of xenogeneous bladder acellular matrix (BAM) that can be used to repair rabbit bladder.
Preparation and bio-evaluation of tissue engineered scaffold based on decellularized whole heart extracellular matrix]	To investigate a method for preparing decellularized rat heart scaffold, and to detect and evaluate the decellularized scaffold.
Research progress of decellularization and application in tissue engineering]	To review the decellularized methods for obtaining extracellular matrix (ECM) and the applications of decellularized ECM scaffold in tissue engineering.
Skeletal muscle regeneration on protein-grafted and microchannel-patterned scaffold for hypopharyngeal tissue engineering.	In the field of tissue engineering, polymeric materials with high biocompatibility like polylactic acid and polyglycolic acid have been widely used for fabricating living constructs. For hypopharynx tissue engineering, skeletal muscle is one important functional part of the whole organ, which assembles the unidirectionally aligned myotubes. In this study, a polyurethane (PU) scaffold with microchannel patterns was used to provide aligning guidance for the seeded human myoblasts. Due to the low hydrophilicity of PU, the scaffold was grafted with silk fibroin (PU-SF) or gelatin (PU-Gel) to improve its cell adhesion properties. Scaffolds were observed to degrade slowly over time, and their mechanical properties and hydrophilicities were improved through the surface grafting. Also, the myoblasts seeded on PU-SF had the higher proliferative rate and better differentiation compared with those on the control or PU-Gel. Our results demonstrate that polyurethane scaffolds seeded with myoblasts hold promise to guide hypopharynx muscle regeneration. 
Advances in regenerative orthopedics.	Orthopedic injuries are common and a source of much misery and economic stress. Several relevant tissues, such as cartilage, meniscus, and intra-articular ligaments, do not heal. And even bone, which normally regenerates spontaneously, can fail to mend. The regeneration of orthopedic tissues requires 4 key components: cells, morphogenetic signals, scaffolds, and an appropriate mechanical environment. Although differentiated cells from the tissue in question can be used, most cellular research focuses on the use of mesenchymal stem cells. These can be retrieved from many different tissues, and one unresolved question is the degree to which the origin of the cells matters. Embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells are also under investigation. Morphogenetic signals are most frequently supplied by individual recombinant growth factors or native mixtures provided by, for example, platelet-rich plasma; mesenchymal stem cells are also a rich source of trophic factors. Obstacles to the sustained delivery of individual growth factors can be addressed by gene transfer or smart scaffolds, but we still lack detailed, necessary information on which delivery profiles are needed. Scaffolds may be based on natural products, synthetic materials, or devitalized extracellular matrix. Strategies to combine these components to regenerate tissue can follow traditional tissue engineering practices, but these are costly, cumbersome, and not well suited to treating large numbers of individuals. More expeditious approaches make full use of intrinsic biological processes invivo to avoid the need for exvivo expansion of autologous cells and multiple procedures. Clinical translation remains a bottleneck. 
In vitro effects of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound stimulation on the osteogenic differentiation of human alveolar bone-derived mesenchymal stem cells for tooth tissue engineering.	Ultrasound stimulation produces significant multifunctional effects that are directly relevant to alveolar bone formation, which is necessary for periodontal healing and regeneration. We focused to find out effects of specific duty cycles and the percentage of time that ultrasound is being generated over one on/off pulse period, under ultrasound stimulation. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound ((LIPUS) 1MHz) with duty cycles of 20% and 50% was used in this study, and human alveolar bone-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hABMSCs) were treated with an intensity of 50mW/cm(2) and exposure time of 10min/day. hABMSCs exposed at duty cycles of 20% and 50% had similar cell viability (O.D.), which was higher (*P < 0.05) than that of control cells. The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was significantly enhanced at 1 week with LIPUS treatment in osteogenic cultures as compared to control. Gene expressions showed significantly higher expression levels of CD29, CD44, COL1, and OCN in the hABMSCs under LIPUS treatment when compared to control after two weeks of treatment. The effects were partially controlled by LIPUS treatment, indicating that modulation of osteogenesis in hABMSCs was related to the specific stimulation. Furthermore, mineralized nodule formation was markedly increased after LIPUS treatment than that seen in untreated cells. Through simple staining methods such as Alizarin red and von Kossa staining, calcium deposits generated their highest levels at about 3weeks. These results suggest that LIPUS could enhance the cell viability and osteogenic differentiation of hABMSCs, and could be part of effective treatment methods for clinical applications. 
Fumed silica nanoparticle mediated biomimicry for optimal cell-material interactions for artificial organ development.	Replacement of irreversibly damaged organs due to chronic disease, with suitable tissue engineered implants is now a familiar area of interest to clinicians and multidisciplinary scientists. Ideal tissue engineering approaches require scaffolds to be tailor made to mimic physiological environments of interest with specific surface topographical and biological properties for optimal cell-material interactions. This study demonstrates a single-step procedure for inducing biomimicry in a novel nanocomposite base material scaffold, to re-create the extracellular matrix, which is required for stem cell integration and differentiation to mature cells. Fumed silica nanoparticle mediated procedure of scaffold functionalization, can be potentially adapted with multiple bioactive molecules to induce cellular biomimicry, in the development human organs. The proposed nanocomposite materials already in patients for number of implants, including world first synthetic trachea, tear ducts and vascular bypass graft.
Stem cell-derived endochondral cartilage stimulates bone healing by tissue transformation.	Although bone has great capacity for repair, there are a number of clinical situations (fracture non-unions, spinal fusions, revision arthroplasty, segmental defects) in which auto- or allografts attempt to augment bone regeneration by promoting osteogenesis. Critical failures associated with current grafting therapies include osteonecrosis and limited integration between graft and host tissue. We speculated that the underlying problem with current bone grafting techniques is that they promote bone regeneration through direct osteogenesis. Here we hypothesized that using cartilage to promote endochondral bone regeneration would leverage normal developmental and repair sequences to produce a well-vascularized regenerate that integrates with the host tissue. In this study, we use a translational murine model of a segmental tibia defect to test the clinical utility of bone regeneration from a cartilage graft. We further test the mechanism by which cartilage promotes bone regeneration using in vivo lineage tracing and in vitro culture experiments. Our data show that cartilage grafts support regeneration of a vascularized and integrated bone tissue in vivo, and subsequently propose a translational tissue engineering platform using chondrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Interestingly, lineage tracing experiments show the regenerate was graft derived, suggesting transformation of the chondrocytes into bone. In vitro culture data show that cartilage explants mineralize with the addition of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) or by exposure to human vascular endothelial cell (HUVEC)-conditioned medium, indicating that endothelial cells directly promote ossification. This study provides preclinical data for endochondral bone repair that has potential to significantly improve patient outcomes in a variety of musculoskeletal diseases and injuries. Further, in contrast to the dogmatic view that hypertrophic chondrocytes undergo apoptosis before bone formation, our data suggest cartilage can transform into bone by activating the pluripotent transcription factor Oct4A. Together these data represent a paradigm shift describing the mechanism of endochondral bone repair and open the door for novel regenerative strategies based on improved biology.
Injectable alginate hydrogels for cell delivery in tissue engineering.	Alginate hydrogels are extremely versatile and adaptable biomaterials, with great potential for use in biomedical applications. Their extracellular matrix-like features have been key factors for their choice as vehicles for cell delivery strategies aimed at tissue regeneration. A variety of strategies to decorate them with biofunctional moieties and to modulate their biophysical properties have been developed recently, which further allow their tailoring to the desired application. Additionally, their potential use as injectable materials offers several advantages over preformed scaffold-based approaches, namely: easy incorporation of therapeutic agents, such as cells, under mild conditions; minimally invasive local delivery; and high contourability, which is essential for filling in irregular defects. Alginate hydrogels have already been explored as cell delivery systems to enhance regeneration in different tissues and organs. Here, the in vitro and in vivo potential of injectable alginate hydrogels to deliver cells in a targeted fashion is reviewed. In each example, the selected crosslinking approach, the cell type, the target tissue and the main findings of the study are highlighted. 
Fibronectin at select sites binds multiple growth factors and enhances their activity: expansion of the collaborative ECM-GF paradigm.	Intensive research has demonstrated that extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules and growth factors (GF) collaborate at many different levels. The ability of ECM to modulate GF signals has important implications in tissue formation and homeostasis as well as novel therapies for acute and chronic wounds. Recently, a number of GF-binding sites was identified in fibronectin (FN) and was shown to provide another layer of regulation on GF signaling. Here, we review these new findings on FN interaction with GF in the context of general ways ECM molecules regulate GF signaling. 
Fibroblast engraftment in the decellularized mouse lung occurs via a 1-integrin-dependent, FAK-dependent pathway that is mediated by ERK and opposed by AKT.	Creation of bioartificial organs has been enhanced by the development of strategies involving decellularized mammalian lung. Because fibroblasts critically support lung function through a number of mechanisms, study of these cells in the context of the decellularized lung has the potential to improve the structure and function of tissue-engineered lungs. We characterized the engraftment and survival of a mouse fibroblast cell line in decellularized rat lung slices and found a time-dependent increase in cell numbers assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, cell proliferation assessed by Ki67 staining, and minimal cell death assessed by TUNEL staining. We developed a repopulation index to allow quantification of cell survival that accounts for variation in cell density throughout the seeded scaffold. We then applied this method to the study of mouse lung scaffolds and found that decellularization of presliced mouse lungs produced matrices with preserved alveolar architecture and proteinaceous components including fibronectin, collagens I and IV, laminin, and elastin. Treatment with a 1-integrin-neutralizing antibody significantly reduced the repopulation index after 24 h of culture. Treatment with focal adhesion kinase (FAK) inhibitor and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) inhibitor further reduced initial repopulation scores while treatment with AKT inhibitor increased initial scores. Rho-associated kinase inhibitor had no discernible effect. These data indicate that initial adhesion and survival of mouse fibroblasts in the decellularized mouse lung occur in a 1-integrin-dependent, FAK/ERK-dependent manner that is opposed by AKT. 
Role of the extracellular matrix in whole organ engineering.	End-stage organ failure is a devastating problem with limited therapeutic options. The definitive treatment is orthotropic transplantation, however, there exists a severe shortage of viable donor organs, and this shortage is worsening with an aging demographic and as the number of new cases of organ failure increases. Patients fortunate enough to receive a transplant are required to receive immunosuppressive therapies and can face transplant rejection. The emerging concept of organ engineering may offer a new hope for these patients. Researchers in the field of regenerative medicine and tissue engineering are using three-dimensional whole organ scaffolds composed of allogeneic or xenogeneic extracellular matrix (ECM) for engineering functional tissue suitable for transplantation. Perfusion decellularization is an approach that generates native ECM scaffolds with intact 3D anatomical architecture and vasculature. Decellularized organs provide the ideal transplantable scaffold with all the necessary microstructure and extracellular cues for cell attachment, differentiation, vascularization, and function. The present manuscript will review the role of the ECM in normal development, the concept of ECM tissue specificity, and the effect of processing methods on eventual clinical outcomes. An overview of existing challenges and future directions will also be discussed.
Engineered micro-objects as scaffolding elements in cellular building blocks for bottom-up tissue engineering approaches.	A material-based bottom-up approach is proposed towards an assembly of cells and engineered micro-objects at the macroscale. We show how shape, size and wettability of engineered micro-objects play an important role in the behavior of cells on these objects. This approach can, among other applications, be used as a tool to engineer complex 3D tissues of clinically relevant size. 
Preparation and evaluation of collagen-silk fibroin/hydroxyapatite nanocomposites for bone tissue engineering.	A new in situ precipitation technique was developed to synthesize collagen-silk fibroin/hydroxyapatite nanocomposites. The componential properties and morphological of nanocomposites were investigated. It was revealed that the inorganic phase in the nanocomposite was carbonate-substituted hydroxyapatite with low crystallinity. Morphology studies showed that hydroxyapatite particles with size ranging from 30 to 100 nm were distributed uniformly in the polymer matrix. According to the TEM micrographs, inorganic particles were composed of more fine sub-particles whose diameters were between 2 and 5 nm in size without regular crystallographic orientation. The mechanical properties of the composites were evaluated by measuring their elastic modulus. The data indicated that the elastic modulus of nanocomposites was improved by the addition of silk fibroin. Finally, the cell biocompatibility of the composites was tested in vitro, which showed that they have good biocompatibility. These results suggest that the collagen-silk fibroin/hydroxyapatite nanocomposites are promising biomaterials for bone tissue engineering.
Human urinary bladder regeneration through tissue engineering - an analysis of 131 clinical cases.	Replacement of urinary bladder tissue with functional equivalents remains one of the most challenging problems of reconstructive urology over the last several decades. The gold standard treatment for urinary diversion after radical cystectomy is the ileal conduit or neobladder; however, this technique is associated with numerous complications including electrolyte imbalances, mucus production, and the potential for malignant transformation. Tissue engineering techniques provide the impetus to construct functional bladder substitutes de novo. Within this review, we have thoroughly perused the literature utilizing PubMed in order to identify clinical studies involving bladder reconstruction utilizing tissue engineering methodologies. The idea of urinary bladder regeneration through tissue engineering dates back to the 1950s. Many natural and synthetic biomaterials such as plastic mold, gelatin sponge, Japanese paper, preserved dog bladder, lyophilized human dura, bovine pericardium, small intestinal submucosa, bladder acellular matrix, or composite of collagen and polyglycolic acid were used for urinary bladder regeneration with a wide range of outcomes. Recent progress in the tissue engineering field suggest that in vitro engineered bladder wall substitutes may have expanded clinical applicability in near future but preclinical investigations on large animal models with defective bladders are necessary to optimize the methods of bladder reconstruction by tissue engineering in humans.
Albumin fiber scaffolds for engineering functional cardiac tissues.	In recent years attempts to engineer contracting cardiac patches were focused on recapitulation of the myocardium extracellular microenvironment. We report here on our work, where for the first time, a three-dimensional cardiac patch was fabricated from albumin fibers. We hypothesized that since albumin fibers' mechanical properties resemble those of cardiac tissue extracellular matrix (ECM) and their biochemical character enables their use as protein carriers, they can support the assembly of cardiac tissues capable of generating strong contraction forces. Here, we have fabricated aligned and randomly oriented electrospun albumin fibers and investigated their structure, mechanical properties, and chemical nature. Our measurements showed that the scaffolds have improved elasticity as compared to synthetic electrospun PCL fibers, and that they are capable of adsorbing serum proteins, such as laminin leading to strong cell-matrix interactions. Moreover, due to the functional groups on their backbone, the fibers can be chemically modified with essential biomolecules. When seeded with rat neonatal cardiac cells the engineered scaffolds induced the assembly of aligned cardiac tissues with high aspect ratio cardiomyocytes and massive actinin striation. Compared to synthetic fibrous scaffolds, cardiac cells cultured within aligned or randomly oriented scaffolds formed functional tissues, exhibiting significantly improved function already on Day 3, including higher beating rate (P=0.0002 and P<0.0001, respectively), and higher contraction amplitude (P=0.009 and P=0.003, respectively). Collectively, our results suggest that albumin electrospun scaffolds can play a key role in contributing to the ex vivo formation of a contracting cardiac muscle tissue.
Macrophage-inducing FasL on chondrocytes forms immune privilege in cartilage tissue engineering, enhancing in vivo regeneration.	To obtain stable outcomes in regenerative medicine, controlling inflammatory reactions is a requirement. Previously, auricular chondrocytes in tissue-engineered cartilage have been shown to express factors related to immune privilege including Fas ligand (FasL) in mice. Since elucidation of mechanism on immune privilege formed in cartilage regeneration may contribute to suppression of excessive inflammation, in this study, we investigated the function of FasL and induction of immune privilege in tissue-engineered cartilage using a mouse subcutaneous model. When cocultured, auricular chondrocytes of FasL-dysfunctional mice, C57BL/6JSlc-gld/gld (gld), induced less cell death and apoptosis of macrophage-like cells, RAW264, compared with chondrocytes of C57BL/6 mice (wild), suggesting that FasL on chondrocytes could induce the apoptosis of macrophages. Meanwhile, the viability of chondrocytes was hardly affected by cocultured RAW264, although the expression of type II collagen was decreased, indicating that macrophages could hamper the maturation of chondrocytes. Tissue-engineered cartilage containing gld chondrocytes exhibited greater infiltration of macrophages, with less accumulation of proteoglycan than did wild constructs. Analysis of the coculture medium identified G-CSF as an inducer of FasL on chondrocytes, and G-CSF-treated tissue-engineered cartilage showed less infiltration of macrophages, with increased formation of cartilage after transplantation. The interactions between chondrocytes and macrophages may increase G-CSF secretion in macrophages and induce FasL on chondrocytes, which in turn induce the apoptosis of macrophages and suppress tissue reactions, promoting the maturation of tissue-engineered cartilage. These findings provide scientific insight into the mechanism of autologous chondrocyte transplantation, which could be applied as a novel strategy for cartilage tissue engineering.
A multilayer tissue engineered meniscus substitute.	Various methods have been tried to treat the main meniscus problem, meniscal tears, for which we believe tissue engineering could be a viable solution. In this study, a three dimensional, collagen-based meniscus substitute was prepared by tissue engineering using human fibrochondrocytes and a collagen based-scaffold. This construct was made with 3 different collagen-based foams interspaced with two electrospun nano/microfibrous mats. The top layer was made of collagen type I-chondroitin sulfate-hyaluronic acid (Coll-CS-HA), and the middle and the bottom layers were made of only collagen type I with different porosities and thus with different mechanical properties. The mats of aligned fibers were a blend of collagen type I and poly(L-lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA). After seeding with human fibrochondrocytes, cell attachment, proliferation, and production of extracellular matrix and glucoseaminoglycan were studied. Cell seeding had a positive effect on the compressive properties of foams and the 3D construct. The 3D construct with all its 5 layers had better mechanical properties than the individual foams. 
Mesenchymal stem cell and gelatin microparticle encapsulation in thermally and chemically gelling injectable hydrogels for tissue engineering.	In this work, we investigated the viability and osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells encapsulated with gelatin microparticles (GMPs) in an injectable, chemically and thermally gelling hydrogel system combining poly(N-isopropylacrylamide)-based thermogelling macromers containing pendant epoxy rings with polyamidoamine-based hydrophilic and degradable diamine crosslinking macromers. Specifically, we studied how the parameters of GMP size and loading ratio affected the viability and differentiation of cells encapsulated within the hydrogel. We also examined the effects of cell and GMP co-encapsulation on hydrogel mineralization. Cells demonstrated long-term viability within the hydrogels, which was shown to depend on GMP size and loading ratio. In particular, increased interaction of cells and GMPs through greater available GMP surface area, use of an epoxy-based chemical gelation mechanism, and the tunable high water content of the thermogelled hydrogels led to favorable long-term cell viability. Compared with cellular hydrogels without GMPs, hydrogels co-encapsulating cells and GMPs demonstrated greater production of alkaline phosphatase by cells at all time-points and a transient early enhancement of hydrogel mineralization for larger GMPs at higher loading ratios. Such injectable, in situ forming hydrogels capable of delivering and maintaining populations of encapsulated mesenchymal stem cells and promoting mineralization in vitro offer promise as novel therapies for applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate)-based nanofibrous scaffolds to support functional esophageal epithelial cells towards engineering the esophagus.	Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) and PHBV-gelatin were electrospun to obtain defect-free nanofibers by optimizing various process and solution parameters. Tensile strength, Young's modulus, and wettability of PHBV-gelatin nanofibrous scaffold were determined and compared with PHBV nanofibrous scaffold. Our results demonstrate that PHBV-gelatin nanofibers exhibited higher tensile strength and Young's modulus than the PHBV nanofibers. Human esophageal epithelial cells (HEEpiC) were cultured on PHBV and PHBV-gelatin nanofiber showed better cell proliferation in PHBV nanofibrous scaffold than the PHBV-gelatin scaffold after 7days of culture. HEEpiC cultured on PHBV and PHBV-gelatin nanofibrous scaffold exhibited characteristic epithelial cobblestone morphology after 3 days of culture. Further, the HEEpiC extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins (collagen type IV and laminin) and phenotypic marker proteins (cytokeratin-4 and 14) expressions were significantly higher in PHBV-gelatin nanofibrous scaffold than the PHBV nanofiber scaffold. However, the long-term stability and functional state of the cells on the PHBV scaffold give it an edge over the blend scaffolds. Thus, PHBV-based nanofibrous scaffolds could be explored further as ECM substitutes for the regeneration of esophageal tissue. 
The influence of matrix (an)isotropy on cardiomyocyte contraction in engineered cardiac microtissues.	In the cardiac microenvironment, cardiomyocytes (CMs) are embedded in an aligned and structured extracellular matrix (ECM) to maintain the coordinated contractile function of the heart. The cardiac fibroblast (cFB) is the main cell type responsible for producing and remodeling this matrix. In cardiac diseases, however, adverse remodeling and CM death may lead to deterioration of the aligned myocardial structure. Here, we present an in vitro cardiac model system with uniaxial and biaxial constraints to induce (an)isotropy in 3D microtissues, thereby mimicking 'healthy' aligned and 'diseased' disorganized cardiac matrices. A mixture of neonatal mouse CMs and cFBs was resuspended in a collagen-matrigel hydrogel and seeded to form microtissues to recapitulate the in vivo cellular composition. Matrix disarray led to a stellate cell shape and a disorganized sarcomere organization, while CMs in aligned matrices were more elongated and had aligned sarcomeres. Although matrix disarray has no detrimental effect on the force generated by the CMs, it did have a negative effect on the homogeneity of contraction force distribution. Furthermore, proliferation of the cFBs affected microtissue contraction as indicated by the negative correlation between the percentage of cFBs in the microtissues and their beating frequency. These results suggest that in regeneration of the diseased heart, reorganization of the disorganized matrix will contribute to recover the coordinated contraction but restoring the ratio in cellular composition (CMs and cFBs) is also a prerequisite to completely regain tissue function. 
3D braid scaffolds for regeneration of articular cartilage.	Regenerating articular cartilage in vivo from cultured chondrocytes requires that the cells be cultured and implanted within a biocompatible, biodegradable scaffold. Such scaffolds must be mechanically stable; otherwise chondrocytes would not be supported and patients would experience severe pain. Here we report a new 3D braid scaffold that matches the anisotropic (gradient) mechanical properties of natural articular cartilage and is permissive to cell cultivation. To design an optimal structure, the scaffold unit cell was mathematically modeled and imported into finite element analysis. Based on this analysis, a 3D braid structure with gradient axial yarn distribution was designed and manufactured using a custom-built braiding machine. The mechanical properties of the 3D braid scaffold were evaluated and compared with simulated results, demonstrating that a multi-scale approach consisting of unit cell modeling and continuum analysis facilitates design of scaffolds that meet the requirements for mechanical compatibility with tissues. 
Growth factor treated tensioned synoviocyte neotissues: towards meniscal bioscaffold tissue engineering.	Meniscal injury is a common cause of osteoarthritis, pain, and disability in dogs and humans, but tissue-engineered bioscaffolds could be a treatment option for meniscal deficiency. The objective of this study was to compare meniscus-like matrix histology, composition, and biomechanical properties of autologous tensioned synoviocyte neotissues (TSN) treated with fetal bovine serum (TSNfbs) or three chondrogenic growth factors (TSNgf). Fourth passage canine synoviocytes from 10 dogs were grown in hyperconfluent monolayer culture, formed into TSN, and then cultured for 3 weeks with 17.7% FBS or three human recombinant TSNgf (bFGF, TGF-1, and IGF-1). Cell viability was determined with laser microscopy. Histological architecture and the composition of fibrocartilage matrix were evaluated in TSN by staining tissues for glycosaminoglycan (GAG), -smooth muscle actin, and collagen 1 and 2; quantifying the content of GAG, DNA, and hydroxyproline; and measuring the gene expression of collagens type 1 and 2, the GAG aggrecan, and transcription factor Sry-type Homeobox Protein-9 (SOX9). Biomechanical properties were determined by materials testing force-deformation curves. The TSN contained components and histological features of mensical fibrocartilage extracellular matrix. Growth factor-treated TSN had higher DNA content but lower cell viability than TSNfbs. TSNgf had greater fibrocartilage-like matrix content (collagen 2 and GAG content with increased collagen 2 and SOX9 gene expression). Additionally, TSNgf collagen was more organized histologically and so had greater tensile biomechanical properties. The results indicate the potential of TSN when cultured with growth factors as implantable bioscaffolds for the treatment of canine meniscal deficiency.
An electrically coupled tissue-engineered cardiomyocyte scaffold improves cardiac function in rats with chronic heart failure.	Varying strategies are currently being evaluated to develop tissue-engineered constructs for the treatment of ischemic heart disease. This study examines an angiogenic and biodegradable cardiac construct seeded with neonatal cardiomyocytes for the treatment of chronic heart failure (CHF).
Cytocompatibility of novel extracellular matrix protein analogs of biodegradable polyester polymers derived from -hydroxy amino acids.	One of the challenges in regenerative medicine is the development of novel biodegradable materials to build scaffolds that will support multiple cell types for tissue engineering. Here we describe the preparation, characterization, and cytocompatibility of homo- and hetero-polyesters of -hydroxy amino acid derivatives with or without lactic acid conjugation. The polymers were prepared by a direct condensation method and characterized using gel permeation chromatography, (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, optical activity, and solubility. The surface charge of the polymers was evaluated using zeta potential measurements. The polymers were coated onto glass cover slips followed by characterization using nano-surface profiler, thin film reflectometry, and atomic force microscopy (AFM). Their interaction with endothelial and neuronal cells was assessed using adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation assays. Of the characterized polymers, Poly-HOVal-LA, but not Poly-(D)HOPhe, significantly augmented nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neuronal differentiation of the PC12 pheochromcytoma cells. In contrast, Poly-HOLeu increased by 20% the adhesion of endothelial cells, but did not affect PC12 cell differentiation. NGF-induced Erk1/2 phosphorylation in PC12 cells grown on the different polymers was similar to the effect observed for cells cultured on collagen type I. While no significant association could be established between charge and the differentiative/proliferative properties of the polymers, AFM analysis indicated augmentation of NGF-induced neuronal differentiation on smooth polymer surfaces. We conclude that overall selective cytocompatibility and bioactivity might render -hydroxy amino acid polymers useful as extracellular matrix-mimicking materials for tissue engineering. 
Micropattern width dependent sarcomere development in human ESC-derived cardiomyocytes.	In this study, human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes were seeded onto controlled two-dimensional micropatterned features, and an improvement in sarcomere formation and cell alignment was observed in specific feature geometries. High-resolution photolithography techniques and microcontact printing were utilized to produce features of various rectangular geometries, with areas ranging from 2500m(2) to 160,000m(2). The microcontact printing method was used to pattern non-adherent poly(ethylene glycol) regions on gold coated glass slides. Matrigel and fibronectin extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins were layered onto the gold-coated glass slides, providing a controlled geometry for cell adhesion. We used small molecule-based differentiation and an antibiotic purification step to produce a pure population of immature cardiomyocytes from H9 human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). We then seeded this pure population of human cardiomyocytes onto the micropatterned features of various sizes and observed how the cardiomyocytes remodeled their myofilament structure in response to the feature geometries. Immunofluorescence was used to measure -actinin expression, and phalloidin stains were used to detect actin presence in the patterned cells. Analysis of nuclear alignment was also used to determine how cell direction was influenced by the features. The seeded cells showed clear alignment with the features, dependent on the width rather than the overall aspect ratio of the features. It was determined that features with widths between 30m and 80m promoted highly aligned cardiomyocytes with a dramatic increase in sarcomere alignment relative to the long axis of the pattern. This creation of highly-aligned cell aggregates with robust sarcomere structures holds great potential in advancing cell-based pharmacological studies, and will help researchers to understand the means by which ECM geometries can affect myofilament structure and maturation in hESC-derived cardiomyocytes. 
Effects of hesperidin loaded poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) scaffolds on growth behavior of costal cartilage cells in vitro and in vivo.	It has been widely accepted that costal cartilage cells (CCs) have more excellent initial proliferation capacity than articular cartilage cells. Biodegradable synthetic polymer poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) was approved by Food and Drug Administration. Hesperidin has antifungal, antiviral, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticarcinogenic properties. Hesperidin loaded (0, 3, 5, and 10wt.%) PLGA scaffolds were prepared and in vitro and in vivo properties were characterized. Scaffolds were seeded with CCs isolated from rabbit, which were kept in culture to harvest for histological analysis. Hesperidin/PLGA scaffolds were also implanted in nude mice for 7 and 28days. Assays of 2-(2-methoxy-4-nitrophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2,4-disulfo-phenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, monosodium salt (WST), and scanning electron microscope were carried out to evaluate attachment and proliferation of CCs in hesperidin/PLGA scaffolds. Glycosaminoglycan assay was performed to confirm the effects of hesperidin on extracellular matrix formation. Reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was carried out to confirm the expression of the specific genes for CCs. In these results, we demonstrated that cell attachment and proliferation on hesperidin/PLGA scaffolds were more excellent compared with on PLGA scaffold. Specially, 5wt.% hesperidin/PLGA scaffold represented the best results among other scaffolds. Thus, 5wt.% hesperidin/PLGA scaffold will be applicable to tissue engineering cartilage. 
The effect of simvastatin on chemotactic capability of SDF-1 and the promotion of bone regeneration.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the cooperative effects of simvastatin (SIM) and stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) on the osteogenic and migration capabilities of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), and construct a cell-free bone tissue engineering system comprising SIM, SDF-1 and scaffold. We found that 0.2m SIM significantly increased alkaline phosphatase activity (P<0.05) of mouse bone marrow MSCs with no inhibition of cell proliferation, and enhanced the chemotactic capability of SDF-1 (P<0.05). Next, we constructed a novel cell-free bone tissue engineering system using PLGA loaded with SIM and SDF-1, and applied it in critical-sized calvarial defects in mice. New bone formation in the defect was evaluated by micro-CT, HE staining and immunohistochemistry. The results showed that PLGA loaded with SIM and SDF-1 promoted bone regeneration significantly more than controls. We investigated possible mechanisms, and showed that SDF-1 combined with SIM increased MSC migration and homing invivo, promoted angiogenesis and enhanced the expression of BMP-2 in newly-formed bone tissue. In conclusion, SIM enhanced the chemotactic capability of SDF-1 and the cell-free bone tissue engineering system composed of SIM, SDF-1 and scaffold promoted bone regeneration in mouse critical-sized calvarial defects. 
The role of macrophage phenotype in vascularization of tissue engineering scaffolds.	Angiogenesis is crucial for the success of most tissue engineering strategies. The natural inflammatory response is a major regulator of vascularization, through the activity of different types of macrophages and the cytokines they secrete. Macrophages exist on a spectrum of diverse phenotypes, from "classically activated" M1 to "alternatively activated" M2 macrophages. M2 macrophages, including the subsets M2a and M2c, are typically considered to promote angiogenesis and tissue regeneration, while M1 macrophages are considered to be anti-angiogenic, although these classifications are controversial. Here we show that in contrast to this traditional paradigm, primary human M1 macrophages secrete the highest levels of potent angiogenic stimulators including VEGF; M2a macrophages secrete the highest levels of PDGF-BB, a chemoattractant for stabilizing pericytes, and also promote anastomosis of sprouting endothelial cells invitro; and M2c macrophages secrete the highest levels of MMP9, an important protease involved in vascular remodeling. In a murine subcutaneous implantation model, porous collagen scaffolds were surrounded by a fibrous capsule, coincident with high expression of M2 macrophage markers, while scaffolds coated with the bacterial lipopolysaccharide were degraded by inflammatory macrophages, and glutaraldehyde-crosslinked scaffolds were infiltrated by substantial numbers of blood vessels, accompanied by high levels of M1 and M2 macrophages. These results suggest that coordinated efforts by both M1 and M2 macrophages are required for angiogenesis and scaffold vascularization, which may explain some of the controversy over which phenotype is the angiogenic phenotype. 
Biomaterials in co-culture systems: towards optimizing tissue integration and cell signaling within scaffolds.	Most natural tissues consist of multi-cellular systems made up of two or more cell types. However, some of these tissues may not regenerate themselves following tissue injury or disease without some form of intervention, such as from the use of tissue engineered constructs. Recent studies have increasingly used co-cultures in tissue engineering applications as these systems better model the natural tissues, both physically and biologically. This review aims to identify the challenges of using co-culture systems and to highlight different approaches with respect to the use of biomaterials in the use of such systems. The application of co-culture systems to stimulate a desired biological response and examples of studies within particular tissue engineering disciplines are summarized. A description of different analytical co-culture systems is also discussed and the role of biomaterials in the future of co-culture research are elaborated on. Understanding the complex cell-cell and cell-biomaterial interactions involved in co-culture systems will ultimately lead the field towards biomaterial concepts and designs with specific biochemical, electrical, and mechanical characteristics that are tailored towards the needs of distinct co-culture systems. 
Effects of hydrostatic pressure on biosynthetic activity during chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs in hybrid scaffolds.	The objective of this study was to determine the effects of hydrostatic pressure (HP) on the biochemical properties and gene expression of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) on scaffolds for cartilage tissue engineering composed of poly(caprolactone) (PCL) poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) gelatin (GEL) semi interpenetrating polymer network (semi-IPN). The MSCs were cultured on PCL-PVA-GEL semi-IPN scaffolds in two groups (A and B) for 7 and 21 days, respectively, and then loaded with hydrostatic pressure (5 MPa, 0.5 Hz) for 2 h per day for the period of 7 days and compared with two non-loaded groups (C and D) as controls. DMMB and real-time PCR analysis for assaying cartilage-specific extracellular matrix (ECM) gene markers were carried out. According to the results, there were no significant differences in GAG amounts between the loaded and non-loaded constructs were observed after 14 days. However, significant and considerable increases in the expression amount of type II collagen mRNA levels in group A ( from 2.43  10-4  5.32  10-5 to 2.09  10-3  1.07  10-4 time), and in group B (from 3.04  10-4  4.31  10-5 to 2.08  10-3  1.59  10-4 time) in comparison with non-loaded groups (C and D) were observed, respectively. Results showed the beneficial role of hydrostatic pressure on the increase of type II collagen mRNA levels in articular cartilage tissue engineering. 
Bone regenerative medicine: classic options, novel strategies, and future directions.	This review analyzes the literature of bone grafts and introduces tissue engineering as a strategy in this field of orthopedic surgery. We evaluated articles concerning bone grafts; analyzed characteristics, advantages, and limitations of the grafts; and provided explanations about bone-tissue engineering technologies. Many bone grafting materials are available to enhance bone healing and regeneration, from bone autografts to graft substitutes; they can be used alone or in combination. Autografts are the gold standard for this purpose, since they provide osteogenic cells, osteoinductive growth factors, and an osteoconductive scaffold, all essential for new bone growth. Autografts carry the limitations of morbidity at the harvesting site and limited availability. Allografts and xenografts carry the risk of disease transmission and rejection. Tissue engineering is a new and developing option that had been introduced to reduce limitations of bone grafts and improve the healing processes of the bone fractures and defects. The combined use of scaffolds, healing promoting factors, together with gene therapy, and, more recently, three-dimensional printing of tissue-engineered constructs may open new insights in the near future. 
Full-thickness skin wound healing using autologous keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts with fibrin: bilayered versus single-layered substitute.	Split-skin grafting (SSG) is the gold standard treatment for full-thickness skin defects. For certain patients, however, an extensive skin lesion resulted in inadequacies of the donor site. Tissue engineering offers an alternative approach by using a very small portion of an individual's skin to harvest cells for propagation and biomaterials to support the cells for implantation. The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of autologous bilayered tissue-engineered skin (BTES) and single-layer tissue-engineered skin composed of only keratinocytes (SLTES-K) or fibroblasts (SLTES-F) as alternatives for full-thickness wound healing in a sheep model. Full-thickness skin biopsies were harvested from adult sheep. Isolated fibroblasts were cultured using medium Ham's F12: Dulbecco modified Eagle medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, whereas the keratinocytes were cultured using Define Keratinocytes Serum Free Medium. The BTES, SLTES-K, and SLTES-F were constructed using autologous fibrin as a biomaterial. Eight full-thickness wounds were created on the dorsum of the body of the sheep. On 4 wounds, polyvinyl chloride rings were used as chambers to prevent cell migration at the edge. The wounds were observed at days 7, 14, and 21. After 3 weeks of implantation, the sheep were euthanized and the skins were harvested. The excised tissues were fixed in formalin for histological examination via hematoxylin-eosin, Masson trichrome, and elastin van Gieson staining. The results showed that BTES, SLTES-K, and SLTES-F promote wound healing in nonchambered and chambered wounds, and BTES demonstrated the best healing potential. In conclusion, BTES proved to be an effective tissue-engineered construct that can promote the healing of full-thickness skin lesions. With the support of further clinical trials, this procedure could be an alternative to SSG for patients with partial- and full-thickness burns. 
Soft tissue wound healing at teeth, dental implants and the edentulous ridge when using barrier membranes, growth and differentiation factors and soft tissue substitutes.	To review the biological processes of wound healing following periodontal and periimplant plastic surgery when different technologies are used in a) the coverage of root and implant dehiscences, b) the augmentation of keratinized tissue (KT) and c) the augmentation of soft tissue volume.
Hybrid hydrogels containing vertically aligned carbon nanotubes with anisotropic electrical conductivity for muscle myofiber fabrication.	Biological scaffolds with tunable electrical and mechanical properties are of great interest in many different fields, such as regenerative medicine, biorobotics, and biosensing. In this study, dielectrophoresis (DEP) was used to vertically align carbon nanotubes (CNTs) within methacrylated gelatin (GelMA) hydrogels in a robust, simple, and rapid manner. GelMA-aligned CNT hydrogels showed anisotropic electrical conductivity and superior mechanical properties compared with pristine GelMA hydrogels and GelMA hydrogels containing randomly distributed CNTs. Skeletal muscle cells grown on vertically aligned CNTs in GelMA hydrogels yielded a higher number of functional myofibers than cells that were cultured on hydrogels with randomly distributed CNTs and horizontally aligned CNTs, as confirmed by the expression of myogenic genes and proteins. In addition, the myogenic gene and protein expression increased more profoundly after applying electrical stimulation along the direction of the aligned CNTs due to the anisotropic conductivity of the hybrid GelMA-vertically aligned CNT hydrogels. We believe that platform could attract great attention in other biomedical applications, such as biosensing, bioelectronics, and creating functional biomedical devices. 
Current progress in bioactive ceramic scaffolds for bone repair and regeneration.	Bioactive ceramics have received great attention in the past decades owing to their success in stimulating cell proliferation, differentiation and bone tissue regeneration. They can react and form chemical bonds with cells and tissues in human body. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the application of bioactive ceramics for bone repair and regeneration. The review systematically summarizes the types and characters of bioactive ceramics, the fabrication methods for nanostructure and hierarchically porous structure, typical toughness methods for ceramic scaffold and corresponding mechanisms such as fiber toughness, whisker toughness and particle toughness. Moreover, greater insights into the mechanisms of interaction between ceramics and cells are provided, as well as the development of ceramic-based composite materials. The development and challenges of bioactive ceramics are also discussed from the perspective of bone repair and regeneration. 
Intracellular delivery of cell-penetrating peptide-transcriptional factor fusion protein and its role in selective osteogenesis.	Protein-transduction technology has been attempted to deliver macromolecular materials, including protein, nucleic acids, and polymeric drugs, for either diagnosis or therapeutic purposes. Herein, fusion protein composed of an arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptide, termed low-molecular-weight protamine (LMWP), and a transcriptional coactivator with a PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) protein was prepared and applied in combination with biomaterials to increase bone-forming capacity. TAZ has been recently identified as a specific osteogenic stimulating transcriptional coactivator in human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) differentiation, while simultaneously blocking adipogenic differentiation. However, TAZ by itself cannot penetrate the cells, and thus needs a transfection tool for translocalization. The LMWP-TAZ fusion proteins were efficiently translocalized into the cytosol of hMSCs. The hMSCs treated with cell-penetrating LMWP-TAZ exhibited increased expression of osteoblastic genes and protein, producing significantly higher quantities of mineralized matrix compared to free TAZ. In contrast, adipogenic differentiation of the hMSCs was blocked by treatment of LMWP-TAZ fusion protein, as reflected by reduced marker-protein expression, adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein 2, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- messenger ribonucleic acid levels. LMWP-TAZ was applied in alginate gel for the purpose of localization and controlled release. The LMWP-TAZ fusion protein-loaded alginate gel matrix significantly increased bone formation in rabbit calvarial defects compared with alginate gel matrix mixed with free TAZ protein. The protein transduction of TAZ fused with cell-penetrating LMWP peptide was able selectively to stimulate osteogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Taken together, this fusion protein-transduction technology for osteogenic protein can thus be applied in combination with biomaterials for tissue regeneration and controlled release for tissue-engineering purposes. 
Relevance of PEG in PLA-based blends for tissue engineering 3D-printed scaffolds.	Achieving high quality 3D-printed structures requires establishing the right printing conditions. Finding processing conditions that satisfy both the fabrication process and the final required scaffold properties is crucial. This work stresses the importance of studying the outcome of the plasticizing effect of PEG on PLA-based blends used for the fabrication of 3D-direct-printed scaffolds for tissue engineering applications. For this, PLA/PEG blends with 5, 10 and 20% (w/w) of PEG and PLA/PEG/bioactive CaP glass composites were processed in the form of 3D rapid prototyping scaffolds. Surface analysis and differential scanning calorimetry revealed a rearrangement of polymer chains and a topography, wettability and elastic modulus increase of the studied surfaces as PEG was incorporated. Moreover, addition of 10 and 20% PEG led to non-uniform 3D structures with lower mechanical properties. In vitro degradation studies showed that the inclusion of PEG significantly accelerated the degradation rate of the material. Results indicated that the presence of PEG not only improves PLA processing but also leads to relevant surface, geometrical and structural changes including modulation of the degradation rate of PLA-based 3D printed scaffolds. 
Mechanical properties, biological activity and protein controlled release by poly(vinyl alcohol)-bioglass/chitosan-collagen composite scaffolds: a bone tissue engineering applications.	In the present study, composite scaffolds made with different weight ratios (0.5:1, 1:1 and 2:1) of bioactive glass (15Ca:80Si:5P) (BG)/polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) (PVABG) and chitosan (Chi)/collagen (Col) (ChiCol) were prepared by three mechanical freeze-thaw followed by freeze-drying to obtain the porous scaffolds. The mechanical properties and the in vitro biocompatibility of the composite scaffolds to simulated body fluid (SBF) and to rat osteoblast-like UMR-106 cells were investigated. The results from the studies indicated that the porosity and compressive strength were controlled by the weight ratio of PVABG:ChiCol. The highest compressive modulus of the composites made was 214.64 MPa which was for the 1:1 weight ratio PVABG:ChiCol. Mineralization study in SBF showed the formation of apatite crystals on the PVABG:ChiCol surface after 7 days of incubation. In vitro cell availability and proliferation tests confirmed the osteoblast attachment and growth on the PVABG:ChiCol surface. MTT and ALP tests on the 1:1 weight ratio PVABG:ChiCol composite indicated that the UMR-106 cells were viable. Alkaline phosphatase activity was found to increase with increasing culturing time. In addition, we showed the potential of PVABG:ChiCol drug delivery through PBS solution studies. 81.14% of BSA loading had been achieved and controlled release for over four weeks was observed. Our results indicated that the PVABG:ChiCol composites, especially the 1:1 weight ratio composite exhibited significantly improved mechanical, mineral deposition, biological properties and controlled release. This made them potential candidates for bone tissue engineering applications.
Biocomposite scaffolds based on electrospun poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) nanofibers and electrosprayed hydroxyapatite nanoparticles for bone tissue engineering applications.	The electrospinning technique combined with the electrospraying process provides a straightforward and versatile approach for the fabrication of novel nanofibrous biocomposite scaffolds with structural, mechanical, and biological properties potentially suitable for bone tissue regeneration. In this comparative investigation, three types of poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB)-based scaffolds were engineered: (i) PHB mats by electrospinning of a PHB solution, (ii) mats of PHB/hydroxyapatite nanoparticle (nHA) blends by electrospinning of a mixed solution containing PHB and nHAs, and (iii) mats constituted of PHB nanofibers and nHAs by simultaneous electrospinning of a PHB solution and electrospraying of a nHA dispersion. Scaffolds based on PHB/nHA blends displayed improved mechanical properties compared to those of neat PHB mats, due to the incorporation of nHAs within the fibers. The electrospinning/electrospraying approach afforded biocomposite scaffolds with lower mechanical properties, due to their higher porosity, but they displayed slightly better biological properties. In the latter case, the bioceramic, i.e. nHAs, largely covered the fiber surface, thus allowing for a direct exposure to cells. The 21 day-monitoring through the use of MTS assays and SEM analyses demonstrated that human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSCs) remained viable on PHB/nHA biocomposite scaffolds and proliferated continuously until reaching confluence.
Reconstruction of small diameter arteries using decellularized vascular scaffolds.	Although artificial vessels are available for large diameter arteries, there are no artificial vessels for small diameter arteries of < 4 mm. We created a decellularized vascular scaffold (length, 10 mm; outer diameter, 1.5 mm; inner diameter, 1.3 mm) from rat abdominal arteries. We measured the biomechanical characteristics of the scaffolds, implanted them to defects made in rat carotid arteries, and evaluated their patency and the endothelial cell linings. Silastic grafts were implanted as controls. The decellularized scaffolds demonstrated similar mechanical characteristics to normal arteries. All of the control grafts were occluded. Fibroblast-like cells were discovered in the thrombus, and fibrous organization was apparent. In contrast, patency of the grafts in 10 of 12 animals was observed 4 weeks after implantation. The internal cavity of the patent scaffold was completely lined by endotheliallike cells. Thus, the possibility of small artery reconstruction using decellularized scaffolds was demonstrated. 
Biomaterial-based scaffolds--current status and future directions.	Biomaterial-based scaffold formulations (three-dimensional Porous matrix, nano-fibre mesh, hydrogels and microspheres) are the major components that are used to deliver the bioactive molecules into the body organs through different routes for an effective treatment of various diseases.
Biomechanical and biocompatibility characteristics of electrospun polymeric tracheal scaffolds.	The development of tracheal scaffolds fabricated based on electrospinning technique by applying different ratios of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polyurethane (PU) is introduced here. Prior to clinical implantation, evaluations of biomechanical and morphological properties, as well as biocompatibility and cell adhesion verifications are required and extensively performed on each scaffold type. However, the need for bioreactors and large cell numbers may delay the verification process during the early assessment phase. Hence, we investigated the feasibility of performing biocompatibility verification using static instead of dynamic culture. We performed bioreactor seeding on 3-dimensional (3-D) tracheal scaffolds (PET/PU and PET) and correlated the quantitative and qualitative results with 2-dimensional (2-D) sheets seeded under static conditions. We found that an 8-fold reduction for 2-D static seeding density can essentially provide validation on the qualitative and quantitative evaluations for 3-D scaffolds. In vitro studies revealed that there was notably better cell attachment on PET sheets/scaffolds than with the polyblend. However, the in vivo outcomes of cell seeded PET/PU and PET scaffolds in an orthotopic transplantation model in rodents were similar. They showed that both the scaffold types satisfied biocompatibility requirements and integrated well with the adjacent tissue without any observation of necrosis within 30 days of implantation. 
Simvastatin coating of TiO scaffold induces osteogenic differentiation of human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells.	Bone tissue engineering requires an osteoconductive scaffold, multipotent cells with regenerative capacity and bioactive molecules. In this study we investigated the osteogenic differentiation of human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hAD-MSCs) on titanium dioxide (TiO2) scaffold coated with alginate hydrogel containing various concentrations of simvastatin (SIM). The mRNA expression of osteoblast-related genes such as collagen type I alpha 1 (COL1A1), alkaline phosphatase (ALPL), osteopontin (SPP1), osteocalcin (BGLAP) and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) was enhanced in hAD-MSCs cultured on scaffolds with SIM in comparison to scaffolds without SIM. Furthermore, the secretion of osteoprotegerin (OPG), vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), osteopontin (OPN) and osteocalcin (OC) to the cell culture medium was higher from hAD-MSCs cultured on scaffolds with SIM compared to scaffolds without SIM. The TiO2 scaffold coated with alginate hydrogel containing SIM promote osteogenic differentiation of hAD-MSCs in vitro, and demonstrate feasibility as scaffold for hAD-MSC based bone tissue engineering.
Biomimetic engineered muscle with capacity for vascular integration and functional maturation in vivo.	Tissue-engineered skeletal muscle can serve as a physiological model of natural muscle and a potential therapeutic vehicle for rapid repair of severe muscle loss and injury. Here, we describe a platform for engineering and testing highly functional biomimetic muscle tissues with a resident satellite cell niche and capacity for robust myogenesis and self-regeneration in vitro. Using a mouse dorsal window implantation model and transduction with fluorescent intracellular calcium indicator, GCaMP3, we nondestructively monitored, in real time, vascular integration and the functional state of engineered muscle in vivo. During a 2-wk period, implanted engineered muscle exhibited a steady ingrowth of blood-perfused microvasculature along with an increase in amplitude of calcium transients and force of contraction. We also demonstrated superior structural organization, vascularization, and contractile function of fully differentiated vs. undifferentiated engineered muscle implants. The described in vitro and in vivo models of biomimetic engineered muscle represent enabling technology for novel studies of skeletal muscle function and regeneration. 
An engineered muscle flap for reconstruction of large soft tissue defects.	Large soft tissue defects involve significant tissue loss, requiring surgical reconstruction. Autologous flaps are occasionally scant, demand prolonged transfer surgery, and induce donor site morbidity. The present work set out to fabricate an engineered muscle flap bearing its own functional vascular pedicle for repair of a large soft tissue defect in mice. Full-thickness abdominal wall defect was reconstructed using this engineered vascular muscle flap. A 3D engineered tissue constructed of a porous, biodegradable polymer scaffold embedded with endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and/or myoblasts was cultured in vitro and then implanted around the femoral artery and veins before being transferred, as an axial flap, with its vascular pedicle to reconstruct a full-thickness abdominal wall defect in the same mouse. Within 1 wk of implantation, scaffolds showed extensive functional vascular density and perfusion and anastomosis with host vessels. At 1 wk posttransfer, the engineered muscle flaps were highly vascularized, were well-integrated within the surrounding tissue, and featured sufficient mechanical strength to support the abdominal viscera. Thus, the described engineered muscle flap, equipped with an autologous vascular pedicle, constitutes an effective tool for reconstruction of large defects, thereby circumventing the need for both harvesting autologous flaps and postoperative scarification. 
A fast and mild decellularization protocol for obtaining extracellular matrix.	Degradation of extracellular matrix (ECM) function with age is a major cause of loss of tissue function with age that we would wish to reverse. Tissue engineering to provide replacement tissue requires an ECM-mimicking scaffold for cell organization. The standard protocols for achieving this take 10 days and include steps that may change the protein structure of the ECM. Here we describe a much shorter protocol for decellularizing chicken muscle, skin, and tendon samples that achieves the same efficiency as the original protocol without protein cross-link interference. Our protocol can be completed in 72 hr.
3-D self-assembling leucine zipper hydrogel with tunable properties for tissue engineering.	Peptide-based engineered hydrogel scaffolds present several advantages over traditional protein or polymeric hydrogels by imparting more robust control over hydrogel properties. In this manuscript, we report the synthesis and characterization of a leucine zipper (LZ) based self-assembling hydrogel for use in tissue engineering applications. Although, LZ hydrogels posses several advantages, the stability of these hydrogels has always been elusive. In this study, we have standardized the procedure for creating a stable LZ hydrogel. Pore-size was tunable by altering the peptide concentration from 7% to 12% by weight. In order to create a microenvironment for cell adhesion, the LZ polypeptide was functionalized by the incorporation of the cell attachment RGD domain. Invivo implantation of the LZ scaffolds in a mouse model showed absence of foreign body reaction to the scaffold. Invivo experiments with human marrow stem cells (HMSCs) in immunocompromised mice showed the biological property of the hydrogel to promote cell attachment, proliferation and its ability to support neovascularization. Our results show for the first time, that it is possible to generate a functional and stable LZ scaffold that can be used invivo for tissue engineering applications. 
Micromolded gelatin hydrogels for extended culture of engineered cardiac tissues.	Defining the chronic cardiotoxic effects of drugs during preclinical screening is hindered by the relatively short lifetime of functional cardiac tissues invitro, which are traditionally cultured on synthetic materials that do not recapitulate the cardiac microenvironment. Because collagen is the primary extracellular matrix protein in the heart, we hypothesized that micromolded gelatin hydrogel substrates tuned to mimic the elastic modulus of the heart would extend the lifetime of engineered cardiac tissues by better matching the native chemical and mechanical microenvironment. To measure tissue stress, we used tape casting, micromolding, and laser engraving to fabricate gelatin hydrogel muscular thin film cantilevers. Neonatal rat cardiac myocytes adhered to gelatin hydrogels and formed aligned tissues as defined by the microgrooves. Cardiac tissues could be cultured for over three weeks without declines in contractile stress. Myocytes on gelatin had higher spare respiratory capacity compared to those on fibronectin-coated PDMS, suggesting that improved metabolic function could be contributing to extended culture lifetime. Lastly, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiac myocytes adhered to micromolded gelatin surfaces and formed aligned tissues that remained functional for four weeks, highlighting their potential for human-relevant chronic studies. 
Manufacturing challenges in regenerative medicine.	Along with scientific and regulatory issues, the translation of cell and tissue therapies in the routine clinical practice needs to address standardization and cost-effectiveness through the definition of suitable manufacturing paradigms. 
Bioinspired nanoscale materials for biomedical and energy applications.	The demand for green, affordable and environmentally sustainable materials has encouraged scientists in different fields to draw inspiration from nature in developing materials with unique properties such as miniaturization, hierarchical organization and adaptability. Together with the exceptional properties of nanomaterials, over the past century, the field of bioinspired nanomaterials has taken huge leaps. While on the one hand, the sophistication of hierarchical structures endows biological systems with multi-functionality, the synthetic control on the creation of nanomaterials enables the design of materials with specific functionalities. The aim of this review is to provide a comprehensive, up-to-date overview of the field of bioinspired nanomaterials, which we have broadly categorized into biotemplates and biomimics. We discuss the application of bioinspired nanomaterials as biotemplates in catalysis, nanomedicine, immunoassays and in energy, drawing attention to novel materials such as protein cages. Furthermore, the applications of bioinspired materials in tissue engineering and biomineralization are also discussed. 
Bone tissue engineering by way of allograft revitalization: mechanistic and mechanical investigations using a porcine model.	"Allograft revitalization" is a process in which cadaveric bone is used to generate well-vascularized living bone. We had previously found that porcine allograft hemimandibles filled with autologous adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) and recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2-soaked absorbable collagen sponge (rhBMP-2/ACS) were completely replaced by vascularized bone, provided the construct had been incubated within a periosteal envelope. The present study sought to deepen our understanding of allograft revitalization by investigating the individual contributions of ASCs and rhBMP-2 in the process and the mechanical properties of the revitalized allograft.
Natural and synthetic biodegradable polymers: different scaffolds for cell expansion and tissue formation.	The formation of tissue produced by implanted cells is influenced greatly by the scaffold onto which they are seeded. In the long term it is often preferable to use a biodegradable material scaffold so that all the implanted materials will disappear, leaving behind only the generated tissue. Research in this area has identified several natural biodegradable materials. Among them, hydrogels are receiving increasing attention due to their ability to retain a great quantity of water, their good biocompatibility, their low interfacial tension, and the minimal mechanical and frictional irritation that they cause. Biocompatibility is not an intrinsic property of materials; rather it depends on the biological environment and the tolerability that exists with respect to specific polymer-tissue interactions. The most often utilized biodegradable synthetic polymers for 3D scaffolds in tissue engineering are saturated poly-a-hydroxy esters, including poly(lactic acid) (PLA) and poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), as well as poly(lactic-co-lycolide) (PLGA) copolymers. Hard materials provide compressive and torsional strength; hydrogels and other soft composites more effectively promote cell expansion and tissue formation. This review focuses on the future potential for understanding the characteristics of the biomaterials considered evaluated for clinical use in order to repair or to replace a sizable defect by only harvesting a small tissue sample. 
Comparison study of tissue engineered cartilage constructed with chondrocytes derived from porcine auricular and articular cartilage]	To compare the tissue engineered cartilage constructed with chondrocytes derived from auricular and articular cartilage.
Microarray analysis reveals moderate gene expression changes in cortical neural stem cells cultured on nanowire arrays.	Although nanowires are widely used in biological applications, especially as cell-manipulation tools, the effect of nanowires on living cells has not been fully investigated. Here, we examined the full gene expression of mouse cortical stem cells cultured on vertical nanowire substrates using RNA microarrays. Genes involved in cell adhesion, cell morphology regulation and cell metabolism were up regulated on the nanowire substrates as compared to flat controls. Scanning electron microscopy images of the samples corroborated our findings, revealing significant differences in cell morphology and adhesion between the nanowire and the flat substrates. Cells on nanowires exhibited a round morphology with a mature appearance characterized by numerous and long processes adhering to the nanowires, while cells on flat substrates had a flat, spread-out morphology and very little neurite outgrowth.
Induction of functional tissue-engineered skeletal muscle constructs by defined electrical stimulation.	Electrical impulses are necessary for proper in vivo skeletal muscle development. To fabricate functional skeletal muscle tissues in vitro, recapitulation of the in vivo niche, including physical stimuli, is crucial. Here, we report a technique to engineer skeletal muscle tissues in vitro by electrical pulse stimulation (EPS). Electrically excitable tissue-engineered skeletal muscle constructs were stimulated with continuous electrical pulses of 0.3V/mm amplitude, 4ms width, and 1Hz frequency, resulting in a 4.5-fold increase in force at day 14. In myogenic differentiation culture, the percentage of peak twitch force (%Pt) was determined as the load on the tissue constructs during the artificial exercise induced by continuous EPS. We optimized the stimulation protocol, wherein the tissues were first subjected to 24.5%Pt, which was increased to 50-60%Pt as the tissues developed. This technique may be a useful approach to fabricate tissue-engineered functional skeletal muscle constructs.
Time and dose-dependent effects of chondroitinase ABC on growth of engineered cartilage.	Tissue engineering techniques have been effective in developing cartilage-like tissues in vitro. However, many scaffold-based approaches to cultivating engineered cartilage have been limited by low collagen production, an impediment for attaining native functional load-bearing tensile mechanical properties. Enzymatic digestion of glycosaminoglycans (GAG) with chondroitinase ABC (chABC) temporarily suppresses the construct's GAG content and compressive modulus and increases collagen content. Based on the promising results of these early studies, the aim of this study was to further promote collagen deposition through more frequent chABC treatments. Weekly dosing of chABC at a concentration of 0.15U/mL resulted in a significant cell death, which impacted the ability of the engineered cartilage to fully recover GAG and compressive mechanical properties. In light of these findings, the influence of lower chABC dosage on engineered tissue (0.004 and 0.015U/mL) over a longer duration (one week) was investigated. Treatment with 0.004U/mL reduced cell death, decreased the recovery time needed to achieve native compressive mechanical properties and GAG content, and resulted in a collagen content that was 65% greater than the control. In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrate that longer chABC treatment (one week) at low concentrations can be used to improve collagen content in developing engineered cartilage more expediently than standard chABC treatments of higher chABC doses administered over brief durations. 
