Penetration of microparticles into human skin]	The efficacy of the penetration of microparticles into the human skin depends on the size and the type of the formulation with which they are topically applied. Microparticles with a diameter of >1 microm barely penetrate into the human skin. They are located on the skin surface and form a film which, for instance, can be used for camouflage or protection against UV radiation in sunscreens. While the penetration of the microparticles in the lipid layers of the stratum corneum is limited, they penetrate efficiently into the hair follicles up to a depth >2 mm, providing their diameter is <1.5 microm. Thus, microparticles can be used for drug delivery into the hair follicles.
In vitro percutaneous absorption and in vivo stratum corneum distribution of an organic and a mineral sunscreen.	Sunscreens, whose main function is to protect the skin against the harmful effects of solar irradiation, should remain at the skin surface or impregnate the first layers of the stratum corneum only and not penetrate into the underlying living tissue. The goal of this work was to assess the penetration of titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) and methylene bis-benzotriazoyl tetramethylbutylphenol (MBBT), included in a broad-spectrum sunscreen formulation, into human skin in vivo, using the tape stripping method, and in vitro, using a compartmental approach. An additional objective was to propose an easy and minimally invasive approach to determining the percutaneous uptake of sunscreens following topical application. TiO(2) and MBBT were quantified using colorimetric assay and HPLC analysis, respectively. The transmission electron microscopy and particle-induced X-ray emission techniques were used to localize the TiO(2) in skin sections. More than 90% of both sunscreens was recovered in the first 15 tape strippings. In addition we have shown that the remaining 10% did not penetrate the viable tissue, but was localized in the furrows and in the opened infundibulum. Less than 0.1% of MBBT was detected in the receptor medium, and no TiO(2) was detected in the follicle, viable epidermis or dermis. Thus, this in vivo and in vitro penetration study showed an absence of TiO(2) penetration into the viable skin layers through either transcorneal or transfollicular pathways and negligible transcutaneous absorption of MBBT. However, differences in distribution within the stratum corneum reinforced the need for a complementary approach, using minimally invasive in vivo methodology and in vitro compartmental analysis. This combination represents a well-adapted method for testing the safety of topically applied sunscreen formulations in real-life conditions.
Release and excretion of metal in patients who have a total hip-replacement component made of titanium-base alloy.	Serum concentration and urinary excretion of titanium, aluminum, and vanadium were measured for patients who had a well functioning cementless primary total hip replacement of one of two different designs, for patients who had a loose total hip replacement that was to be revised, and for control subjects who had no implant. Serum concentrations of titanium were elevated approximately twofold in the patients who had a loose implant, compared with the values for the control subjects. No major differences in terms of urine concentration of titanium, serum concentration of aluminum, or urine concentration of aluminum were observed among any of the groups that were studied. Concentrations of vanadium were uniformly low in all groups.
Effects of titanium(iv) ions on human monocyte-derived dendritic cells.	Orthopaedic metal implants composed of titanium are routinely used in bone fracture repair and for joint replacement therapies. A considerable fraction of implant recipients are unable to benefit due to implant failure resulting from aseptic loosening, while others may experience cutaneous sensitivity to titanium after implantation. An adaptive immune reactivity towards titanium ions, originating from the biocorrosion of the implants, could play a role. As an initiator of the adaptive immune response, dendritic cells (DC) were studied for uptake and characteristics after titanium exposure. Energy filtered transmission electron microscopy showed uptake of titanium(iv) (Ti(iv)) ions by DCs in vitro and co-localisation with phosphorus-rich cell structures of the DC membranes (phospholipids), cytoplasm (ribosomes and phosphorylated proteins) and the nucleus (DNA). DC maturation and function were investigated by measuring cell surface marker expression by flow cytometry. After exposure, DCs showed a decrease in MHC class II (HLA-DR), co-stimulatory molecules (CD40, CD80 & CD86) and chemokine receptors (CCR) 6 and CCR7 but an increase in CCR4 after Ti(iv) treatment. However, Ti(iv) treated DCs had an increased stimulatory capacity towards allogenic lymphocytes. A Ti(iv) concentration dependant increase of IL-12p70 was observed amidst decrease of the other measured cytokines (TGF-β1 and TGF-β2). Hence, Ti(iv) alters DC properties, resulting in an enhanced T lymphocyte reactivity and deviation towards a Th1 type immune response. This effect may be responsible for the inflammatory side effects of titanium implants seen in patients.
Correlation between particle size, in vivo particle persistence, and lung injury.	Dosimetry parameters such as deposition, clearance, retention, and translocation and dissolution of inhaled particles in and to different lung compartments may be important for the persistence of particles in the lung and may correlate with adverse pulmonary effects. We investigated such correlations using a model involving TiO2 particles of two particle sizes (20 nm diameter, ultrafine; 250 nm diameter, fine) of the same crystalline structure (anatase). A 12-week inhalation experiment in rats resulted in a similar mass deposition of the two particle types in the lower respiratory tract. The ultrafine particles elicited a persistently high inflammatory reaction in the lungs of the animals compared to the larger-sized particles. In the postexposure period (up to 1 year) retention in the alveolar space per se was not different between fine and ultrafine TiO2. However, the following differences between the particle types were noted: a significantly different total pulmonary retention, both quantitatively (significantly prolonged retention of the ultrafine TiO2) and qualitatively (increased translocation to the pulmonary interstitium and persistence there of the ultrafine TiO2); greater epithelial effects (Type II cell proliferation; occlusion of pores of Kohn) and the beginning of interstitial fibrotic foci with ultrafine TiO2; significant sustained impairment of alveolar macrophage function after ultrafine TiO2 exposure as measured by the clearance of test particles. A correlation between particle surface area and effects was observed. A comparison of the adverse reactions with dosimetric parameters of TiO2 in different lung compartments in the postexposure period showed a correlation of the persistence of effects in both the alveolar and interstitial space with the persistence of particles in the respective compartment.
