Adenoviral vector expressing CYLD augments antitumor activity of TRAIL by suppression of NF-kappaB survival signaling in hepatocellular carcinoma.	CYLD is a tumor suppressor gene related to cylindroma and is negative regulator of NF-kappaB. However, antitumor effect of CYLD has not been reported. The activation of NF-kappaB induced by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) renders hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) resistant to TRAIL-mediated cell apoptosis. Here we described that the adenoviral vector expressing CYLD (Ad/hTERT-CYLD) augmented the cytotoxicity of TRAIL in HCC cells by negatively regulating NF-kappaB activity since CYLD could reverse the ubiquitination of TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) and interact with the IkappaB kinasegamma (IKKgamma). The combined treatment of Ad/hTERT-CYLD and a conditionally replicating adenovirus carrying TRAIL gene (ZD55-TRAIL) induced rapid and potent apoptosis in HCC cells, characterized by activation of caspase-3, caspase-8, PARP and the reduction of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP). In animal study, the combined treatment could eradicate the BEL7404 xenograft tumors. In contrast, treatment with Ad/hTERT-CYLD or ZD55-TRAIL alone achieved less antitumor effect.
Effects of interferon on the expressions of TRAIL and other apoptosis- inducing genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from polycythemia rubra vera]	To investigate the effects of interferon (IFN) on the natural killer (NK) cytotoxicity and the expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and other apoptosis-inducing genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) from polycythemia rubra vera (PV).
Antitumor activity of human CD34+ cells expressing membrane-bound tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) selectively induces apoptosis in a variety of transformed cells while sparing normal cells. To enhance the therapeutic index of soluble (s)TRAIL, we used CD34+ cells transduced with a replication-deficient adenovirus encoding the human TRAIL gene (CD34-TRAIL+) for the systemic delivery of membrane-bound (m)TRAIL to lymphoid tumors. CD34-TRAIL+ cells were evaluated for their activity in vitro and in vivo in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficient (NOD/SCID) mice xenografted with sTRAIL-sensitive and -resistant tumors. In vitro, coculturing CD34-TRAIL+ cells with sTRAIL-sensitive or -resistant lymphoma cell lines induced significant levels of caspase-dependent tumor cell death. In vivo, CD34-TRAIL+ cells significantly increased the survival of NOD/SCID mice bearing sTRAIL-sensitive or -resistant lymphoid tumors at an early or advanced stage of disease. No obvious toxicity was observed on administration of CD34-TRAIL+ cells. Histological analysis revealed high-level expression of the agonistic receptor TRAIL-R2 by tumor endothelial cells, and efficient tumor homing of transduced cells. Injection of CD34-TRAIL+ cells resulted in extensive damage of tumor vasculature followed by hemorrhagic necrosis exhibiting a perivascular distribution. These results show that CD34-TRAIL+ cells might be an efficient vehicle for mTRAIL delivery to tumors, where they exert a potent antitumor effect possibly mediated by both direct tumor cell killing and indirect vascular-disrupting mechanisms.
Involvement of regulatory T cells in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-preventive effect of dendritic cells expressing myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein plus TRAIL.	We previously reported the protection from myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) by the adoptive transfer of genetically modified embryonic stem cell-derived dendritic cells (ES-DC) presenting MOG peptide in the context of MHC class II molecules and simultaneously expressing TRAIL (ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG). In the present study, we found the severity of EAE induced by another myelin autoantigen, myelin basic protein, was also decreased after treatment with ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG. This preventive effect diminished, if the function of CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) was abrogated by the injection of anti-CD25 mAb into mice before treatment with ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG. The adoptive transfer of CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells from ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG-treated mice protected the recipient mice from MOG- or myelin basic protein-induced EAE. The number of Foxp3(+) cells increased in the spinal cords of mice treated with ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG. In vitro experiments showed that TRAIL expressed in genetically modified ES-DC and also in LPS-stimulated splenic macrophages had a capacity to augment the proliferation of CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells. These results suggest that the prevention of EAE by treatment with ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG is mediated, at least in part, by MOG-reactive CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg propagated by ES-DC-TRAIL/MOG. For the treatment of organ-specific autoimmune diseases, induction of Treg reactive to the organ-specific autoantigens by the transfer of DC-presenting Ags and simultaneously overexpressing TRAIL therefore appears to be a promising strategy.
Magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles mediated gene therapy for breast cancer--an in vitro study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of using TRAIL gene to treat breast cancer mediated with a novel carrier - magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (poly-MAG-1000) coated with PEI. The magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles were used as gene carrier to transfect TRAIL gene into MCF-7 cells. The polyMAG-1000 without TRAIL gene was transfected into the tumor cells as negative control. TRAIL gene transfection with liposome as carrier served as positive control. The apoptosis of cells was detected with TUNEL method. The apoptosis ratio of tumor cells was measured with flow cytometry (FCM). It was found that the apoptosis occurred in the tumor cells after transfection of TRAIL gene mediated by both polyMAG-1000 and liposome. The apoptosis ratio in the group with polyMAG-1000 as gene carrier was (25.11+/-2.85) %, whereas it was (5.06+/- 1.05) % in the control group with polyMAG-1000 (P<0.01). The apoptosis ratio was as low as (18.31+/-2.44) % in the group with liposome as gene carrier (P<0.05, as compared with the group with polyMAG-1000 as gene carrier). It is suggested that TRAIL gene may induce apoptosis in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. The magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles coated with PEI may be a potential gene carrier with high transfection efficacy for cancer gene therapy..
Treatment with IFNalpha in vivo up-regulates serum-soluble TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (sTRAIL) levels and TRAIL mRNA expressions in neutrophils in chronic myelogenous leukemia patients.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is an interferon alpha (IFNalpha)-induced, apoptosis-inducing molecule. TRAIL could be one of the reagents for therapeutic use in combination with imatinib in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Here we examined serum-soluble TRAIL (sTRAIL) levels in CML patients either before or during therapies with IFNalpha or imatinib. In untreated CML patients, serum sTRAIL was detectable and the levels were substantially comparable with those in healthy donors. sTRAIL levels significantly increased in patients during IFNalpha therapy, but not at all in patients during imatinib therapy. TRAIL mRNA expressions in neutrophils in CML patients undergoing IFNalpha therapy was significantly elevated when compared with those in patients prior to therapy. TRAIL mRNA expressions were also detectable in CD34-positive cells in bone marrow, and the levels increased in patients during IFNalpha therapy. In vitro IFNalpha stimulation of CML neutrophils increased intracellular TRAIL rather than cell-surface TRAIL, and the secretion of sTRAIL in the culture supernatant was observed. This sTRAIL secretion was augmented with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation only in IFNalpha-primed neutrophils, whereas LPS alone had no effect. Taken together, in vivo IFNalpha treatment provokes the release of sTRAIL when administered systematically in CML patients. The main source of the IFNalpha-induced serum sTRAIL may be neutrophils in CML, and sTRAIL may be one of the mechanisms of the anti-proliferative action of IFNalpha on CML. These findings give another rationale for the use of IFNalpha or recombinant sTRAIL in CML, and also implicate the potential importance of neutrophils in tumor immunosurveillance.
Parenchymal regression in chronic pancreatitis spares islets reprogrammed for expression of NFkappaB and IAPs]	In chronic pancreatitis (CP), fibrous replacement of exocrine tissue spares islets. There is local production of IFNgamma and death ligands by inflammatory cells as well as TGFbeta and TRAIL by pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs), along with functional death receptor neo-expression and apoptosis in exocrine but not in endocrine cells. Moreover, islets are strongly induced for TRAIL-receptor(R)-4 lacking a functional death domain. TRAIL-R4 signalling in T-cells induces NFkappaB transcription factors which activate anti-apoptotic programs. Whether TRAIL elicits this response in endocrine cells, we tested human insulinoma cell line CM and determined NFkappaB subunits transcripts and NFkappaB dependent inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) in normal pancreas (NP) and CP. We treated CM with cytokines, determined TRAIL-R expression by flow cytometry, graded degree of fibrosis in CP specimens, microdissected epithelial compartments, performed real time PCRs for NFkappaB subunits transcripts, and immunohistochemistry for IKK-gamma, IkappaB-alpha, RelA, survivin, and cIAP1. In CM, TGFbeta/IFNgamma/TRAIL induced TRAIL-R4 surface expression. TRAIL/ IFNgamma, upregulated NFkappaB subunits and survivin while down-modulating 1kappaBalpha. NP epithelia had low RNA levels of NFkappaB subunits. These were increased in parenchymal areas of CP with severe fibrosis and most intensely in islets. The NFkappaB regulated proteins IkappaBalpha, survivin, and cIAP1 were found in corresponding sites, again, at highest levels in islets surrounded by fibrosis. In CP, islets not only evade immune attack by non-exposure of functional death receptors in presence of TRAIL-R4. They also neo-express NFkappaB subunits, survivin, and cIAP1. This apoptosis-inhibitory security program might be enforced by PSC-derived TRAIL.
Resistance to TRAIL-induced apoptosis caused by constitutional phosphorylation of Akt and PTEN in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily, which induces apoptosis in cancer cells but not in normal cells. Akt/protein kinase B, when phosphorylated to its active form, promotes cell survival and blocks apoptosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of Akt pathway in acquired TRAIL resistance of acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells.
Specific antitumor effect of adeno-associated virus vector carrying TRAIL gene under the control of hTERT promoter]	Adeno-associated virus (AAV) has been widely used in tumor gene therapy. Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a safe and potent anti-tumor gene which could induce apoptosis of many tumor cells. This study was to use tumor-specific promoter hTERT to construct AAV-hTERT-TRAIL, and explore its antitumor effect and mechanism in vitro.
Effective gene-viral therapy of leukemia by a new fiber chimeric oncolytic adenovirus expressing TRAIL: in vitro and in vivo evaluation.	Conditionally replicating adenoviruses (CRAd) have been under extensive investigations as anticancer agents. Previously, we found that ZD55, an adenovirus serotype 5-based CRAd, infected and killed the leukemia cells expressing coxsackie adenovirus receptor (CAR). However, majority of leukemic cells lack CAR expression on their cell surface, resulting in resistance to CRAd infection. In this study, we showed that SG235, a novel fiber chimeric CRAd that has Ad35 tropism, permitted CAR-independent cell entry, and this in turn produced selective cytopathic effects in a variety of human leukemic cells in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, SG235 expressing exogenous tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (SG235-TRAIL) effectively induced apoptosis of leukemic cells via the activation of extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathway and elicited a superior antileukemia activity compared with SG235. In addition, normal hematopoietic progenitors were resistant to the inhibitory activity of SG235 and SG235-TRAIL. Our data suggest that these novel oncolytic agents may serve as useful tools for the treatment of leukemia.
Antitumor activity of Ad-IU2, a prostate-specific replication-competent adenovirus encoding the apoptosis inducer, TRAIL.	In this study, we analyzed the preclinical utility and antitumor efficacy of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) delivered by Ad-IU2, a prostate-specific replication-competent adenovirus (PSRCA), against androgen-independent prostate cancer. Through transcriptional control of adenoviral early genes E1a, E1b and E4, as well as TRAIL by two bidirectional prostate-specific enhancing sequences (PSES), the expression of TRAIL and adenoviral replication was limited to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positive cells. Ad-IU2 induced fivefold greater apoptosis selectively in PSA/PSMA-positive CWR22rv and C4-2 cells than an oncolytic adenoviral control. Furthermore, prolonged infection with Ad-IU2 reversed TRAIL resistance in LNCaP cells. Ad-IU2 showed superior killing efficiency in PSA/PSMA-positive prostate cancer cells at doses five- to eight-fold lower than required by a PSRCA to produce a similar effect; however, this cytotoxic effect was not observed in non-prostatic cells. As an enhancement of its therapeutic efficacy, Ad-IU2 exerted a TRAIL-mediated bystander effect through direct cell-to-cell contact and soluble factors such as apoptotic bodies. In vivo, Ad-IU2 markedly suppressed the growth of subcutaneous androgen-independent CWR22rv xenografts compared with a PSRCA at 6 weeks after treatment (3.1- vs 17.1-fold growth of tumor). This study shows the potential clinical utility of a PSRCA armed with an apoptosis-inducing ligand.
Conditionally replicating adenovirus improves gene replication efficiency and anticancer effect of E1-deleted adenovirus carrying TRAIL in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.	To overcome the low efficiency of gene therapy, we combined a conditionally replicating adenovirus (CRAd) and an adenoviral vector with a therapeutic gene. CRAd has an oncolytic activity in cancer cells with abnormal Rb activity and helps the replication of therapeutic genes incorporated in the E1-deleted adenovirus. We investigated the anticancer effect of a combination of CRAd and adenovirus carrying tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (ad-TRAIL). We expected to see increased gene expression in cancer cells as well as an antitumor effect. With the combined application of CRAd and ad-luciferase in head and neck cancer cell lines, we observed considerably increased luciferase activity that was 10- to 50-fold greater than with ad-luciferase alone. The combination of CRAd and ad-TRAIL showed significant suppression of growth in cell lines and increased the sub-G(1) portion of cells 30-fold compared to any single treatment. The expression of TRAIL was highly amplified by the combined treatment and was accompanied by expression of molecules related to apoptosis. In a xenograft animal model, mice treated with CRAd and ad-TRAIL showed complete regression of established tumors, whereas mice treated with CRAd or ad-TRAIL alone did not. In conclusion, this combined strategy using CRAd and adenovirus carrying a therapeutic gene increased the gene transfer rate and enhanced antitumor effects. We expect that this combination strategy could be extended to a multitarget cancer gene therapy by combining multiple adenoviruses and CRAd.
Inability of plasmacytoid dendritic cells to directly lyse HIV-infected autologous CD4+ T cells despite induction of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.	The function of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC) in chronic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection remains controversial with regard to its potential for sustained alpha interferon (IFN-alpha) production and induction of PDC-dependent tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-mediated cytotoxicity of HIV-infected cells. We address these areas by a study of chronically HIV-1-infected subjects followed through antiretroviral therapy (ART) interruption and by testing PDC cytolytic function against autologous HIV-infected CD4(+) T cells. Rebound in viremia induced by therapy interruption showed a positive association between TRAIL and viral load or T-cell activation, but comparable levels of plasma IFN-alpha/beta were found in viremic ART-treated and control subjects. While PDC from HIV-infected subjects expressed less interferon regulator factor 7 (IRF-7) and produced significantly less IFN-alpha upon Toll-like receptor 7/9 (TLR7/9) engagement than controls, membrane TRAIL expression in PDC from HIV(+) subjects was increased. Moreover, no significant increase in death receptor 5 (DR5) expression was seen in CD4(+) T cells from viremic HIV(+) subjects compared to controls or following in vitro infection/exposure to infectious and noninfectious virus or exogenous IFN-alpha, respectively. Although activated PDC killed the DR5-expressing HIV-infected Sup-T1 cell line, PDC did not lyse primary autologous HIV(+) CD4(+) T cells yet could provide accessory help for NK cells in killing HIV-infected autologous CD4(+) T cells. Taken together, our data show a lack of sustained high levels of soluble IFN-alpha in chronic HIV-1 infection in vivo and document a lack of direct PDC cytolytic activity against autologous infected or uninfected CD4(+) T cells.
Identification and functional characterization of a human sTRAIL homolog, CasTRAIL, in an invertebrate oyster Crassostrea ariakensis.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL/Apo2L) is one of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily members, participating in many biological processes including apoptosis and immune responses. In present study, a novel human soluble TRAIL (sTRAIL) homolog, CasTRAIL was identified from the oyster, Crassostrea ariakensis. CasTRAIL has a 99% and 98% similarity to human sTRAIL over the cDNA sequence and the amino acid sequence, respectively. It mostly distributes in tissues of the oyster defense system and was mainly localized at cell membrane, and has no cytotoxicity to normal hemocytes of oyster. The phosphorylation state of MAP kinases revealed that CasTRAIL induced a rapid increase in the phospho-ERK and phospho-p38 levels, which indicated that the MAPK pathway was involved in CasTRAIL-mediated signaling. In addition, CasTRAIL also showed an ability of anti-RLO infection which might be through the p38-MAPK activation pathway. Present studies provide an understanding and insight of the biological functions of CasTRAIL.
Sensitization of human bladder tumor cells to TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-induced apoptosis with a small molecule IAP antagonist.	Urothelial carcinoma of the bladder accounts for approximately 5% of all cancer deaths in humans. The large majority of bladder tumors are non-muscle invasive at diagnosis, but even after local surgical therapy there is a high rate of local tumor recurrence and progression. Current treatments extend time to recurrence but do not significantly alter disease survival. The objective of the present study was to investigate the tumoricidal potential of combining the apoptosis-inducing protein TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) with a small molecule inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP) antagonist to interfere with intracellular regulators of apoptosis in human bladder tumor cells. Our results demonstrate that the IAP antagonist Compound A exhibits high binding affinity to the XIAP BIR3 domain. When Compound A was used at nontoxic concentrations in combination with TRAIL, there was a significant increase in the sensitivity of TRAIL-sensitive and TRAIL-resistant bladder tumor lines to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. In addition, modulation of TRAIL sensitivity in the TRAIL-resistant bladder tumor cell line T24 with Compound A was reciprocated by XIAP small interfering RNA-mediated suppression of XIAP expression, suggesting the importance of XIAP-mediated resistance to TRAIL in these cells. These results suggest the potential of combining Compound A with TRAIL as an alternative therapy for bladder cancer.
The role of K-ras gene mutation in TRAIL-induced apoptosis in pancreatic and lung cancer cell lines.	Pancreatic ductal and lung adenocarcinomas are the most common and prevalent types of human neoplasms with a greater than 80% mortality rate. The poor prognosis of both these cancers are likely due to the absence of valid approaches for early detection, the frequency of its metastases at the time of diagnosis, frequent recurrence after surgery, and poor responsiveness to chemotherapy. Most notably, the early development of pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia and lung lesions is suggested to be the result of a mutation in the K-ras (G12D) oncogene. Tumor necrosis factor-related-apoptosis-inducing-ligand (TRAIL) has been shown to have great potential for the treatment of most human tumor cells, while leaving normal cells unharmed. However, some cancers show resistance to TRAIL treatment, leaving a gap in the understanding of its exact etiology.
Haplotypes covering the TNFSF10 gene are associated with bronchial asthma.	Tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is elevated in the airways of subjects with asthma and has been linked to the development of allergic airway disease by promoting STAT6-dependent T helper 2 cell (T(H) 2) effector functions. To determine whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TNFSF10 gene are associated with bronchial asthma we genotyped 498 Caucasian subjects living in Southern Germany for eight SNPs in the TNFSF10 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. In contrast to single SNPs, haplotypes constructed from eight SNPs were robustly associated with asthma (p=0.00012). A small haplotype approach returned four alleles consisting of two (rs3136586/ rs3136598), three (rs12488654/rs3136586/rs3136598 and rs3136586/rs3136598/rs3136604), and four SNPs (rs12488654/ rs3136586/ rs3136598/ rs3136604) that were highly associated with asthma (p=0.00005, p=0.00008, p=0.00017 and p=0.00038). Combinations of SNPs in the TNFSF10 allele were strongly associated with asthma supporting the concept that TRAIL is important in the development of hallmark features of this disease.
Gene expression profile of cytokines in patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with reduced conditioning.	There are no reliable markers useful to predict the onset or the evolution of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), although several candidate biomarkers have been identified from limited hypothesis-driven studies. In this study we evaluated 14 patients who received a reduced intensity conditioning HSCT. Seven patients had cGVHD, whereas 7 never developed cGVHD during the period of observation. The expression of 114 cytokines in immunoselected cell populations was explored by microarray analysis and 11 cytokines were selected for further evaluation by real-time PCR. Differential gene expression measurements showed a significant up-regulation for INFγ (interferon, gamma) in CD8+ and for TNFSF3 (tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 3) and for TNFSF10 (tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 10) in CD14+ cell population when comparing cGVHD with control samples. The expression levels were significantly decreased for TNFSF10 in CD8+ cell population and for TNFSF12 (tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12) and for PDGFβ (platelet-derived growth factor, beta) in CD4+. Our data seem to suggest that different immune populations can play a role in cGVHD pathogenesis and the early detection of gene expression profile in these patients could be useful in the monitoring of GVHD. We hypothesized that PDGFβ down-regulation could represent a negative feedback to compensate for enhanced expression of its receptor recently reported.
Increased expression of TRAIL and its death receptors DR4 and DR5 in plaque psoriasis.	TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is recognized as an important regulator of immune responses during infections and various autoimmune-mediated pathologies. Its role in inflammatory dermatoses is largely unknown. We aimed to investigate the expression of TRAIL and its receptors DR4 and DR5 in psoriasis vulgaris. Immunohistochemistry for TRAIL, DR4 and DR5 was performed on samples of lesional (n = 10) and non-lesional (n = 10) skin of patients with plaque psoriasis and skin of healthy volunteers (n = 10). Expression of TRAIL and its receptors was further examined by means of double immunofluorescence staining and co-localization with CD4, CD8, CD11c, CD68, CD16 and CD56 markers. Immunohistochemical staining for TRAIL was significantly enhanced in psoriatic lesional as well as non-lesional epidermis compared to the epidermis of healthy skin. Lesional epidermis also showed increased immunoreactivity for DR5. In addition, expression of TRAIL and both of its receptors was significantly increased in the dermis of lesional skin. As evidenced by double immunofluorescence, TRAIL was readily expressed by most of the examined cells of the inflammatory infiltrate in psoriatic lesions. In contrast, the expression of DR4 was found mostly among CD4+ and CD8+ cells but was only nuclear, while DR5 showed cytoplasmic staining in rare CD16+, CD56+ and CD68+ cells. According to abundant in situ presence of TRAIL and its receptors in lesional psoriatic skin, it seems that this cytokine participates in the complex interplay between keratinocytes and cells of the dermal infiltrate and thus contributes to the inflammatory cycle in psoriasis vulgaris.
Progress on targeting TRAIL's receptor as antitumor strategy]	There exist two major apoptotic signaling pathways: the intrinsic mitochondria-mediated pathway, and the extrinsic death receptor-induced pathway. TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), which is the ligand for death receptor 4 (DR4) and death receptor 5 (DR5) and induces apoptosis by ligation with DR4 or DR5. We review the characteristic of TRAIL and its receptors, the mechanism of apoptosis induced by TRAIL, the distribution of death receptors in cancer, and applications and prospects of TRAIL signaling pathway in the treatment of cancer.
Targeted expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand TRAIL in skin protects mice against chemical carcinogenesis.	Gene ablation studies have revealed that tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL, Apo2L, TNFSF10) plays a crucial role in tumor surveillance, as TRAIL-deficient mice exhibit an increased sensitivity to different types of tumorigenesis. In contrast, possible tumor-protective effect of increased levels of endogenous TRAIL expression in vivo has not been assessed yet. Such models will provide important information about the efficacy of TRAIL-based therapies and potential toxicity in specific tissues.
Protective pathways against colitis mediated by appendicitis and appendectomy.	Appendicitis followed by appendectomy (AA) at a young age protects against inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Using a novel murine appendicitis model, we showed that AA protected against subsequent experimental colitis. To delineate genes/pathways involved in this protection, AA was performed and samples harvested from the most distal colon. RNA was extracted from four individual colonic samples per group (AA group and double-laparotomy control group) and each sample microarray analysed followed by gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA). The gene-expression study was validated by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of 14 selected genes across the immunological spectrum. Distal colonic expression of 266 gene-sets was up-regulated significantly in AA group samples (false discovery rates < 1%; P-value < 0·001). Time-course RT-PCR experiments involving the 14 genes displayed down-regulation over 28 days. The IBD-associated genes tnfsf10, SLC22A5, C3, ccr5, irgm, ptger4 and ccl20 were modulated in AA mice 3 days after surgery. Many key immunological and cellular function-associated gene-sets involved in the protective effect of AA in experimental colitis were identified. The down-regulation of 14 selected genes over 28 days after surgery indicates activation, repression or de-repression of these genes leading to downstream AA-conferred anti-colitis protection. Further analysis of these genes, profiles and biological pathways may assist in developing better therapeutic strategies in the management of intractable IBD.
Foxp3 expression in liver correlates with the degree but not the cause of inflammation.	Patients with chronic viral hepatitis display increased expression of Foxp3 in liver, suggesting that Tregs expansion contributes to persistent infection. The purpose of this study was to elucidate whether the expression of Foxp3 relates not to the viral infection but to the resulting liver inflammation. Liver biopsies obtained from 69 individuals (26 chronic HBV hepatitis, 14 chronic HCV hepatitis, 11 nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, 8 autoimmune diseases, 2 methotrexate-related toxicity, and 8 controls) were examined, by qRT-PCR, for the mRNA expression of Foxp3, IL-10, TGF-β1, Fas, FasL, TRAIL, caspase-3, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and IL-1β. Significant increase of Foxp3 was observed in all disease groups compared to controls, which was positively correlated with the intensity of inflammation. The expression of the apoptosis mediators Fas, FasL, and TRAIL, but not of IL-10 and TGF-β1, was also significantly elevated. Our findings indicate that, independently of the initial inducer, liver inflammation is correlated with elevated expression of apoptosis mediators and is followed by local Treg accumulation. Further research towards the elucidation of the underlying casual relationships is required, in order to clarify whether our results signify the existence of a uniform Treg-mediated regulatory mechanism of apoptosis-induced inflammation.
5-epi-Sinuleptolide induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis through tumor necrosis factor/mitochondria-mediated caspase signaling pathway in human skin cancer cells.	Skin cancers are reportedly increasing worldwide. Developing novel anti-skin cancer drugs with minimal side effects is necessary to address this public health issue. Sinuleptolide has been demonstrated to possess anti-cancer cell activities; however, the mechanisms underlying the anti-skin cancer effects of 5-epi-sinuleptolide and sinuleptolide remain poorly understood.
Sp1, acetylated histone-3 and p300 regulate TRAIL transcription: mechanisms of PDGF-BB-mediated VSMC proliferation and migration.	We recently reported that TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is important in atherogenesis, since it can induce vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation and arterial thickening following injury. Here we show the first demonstrate that TRAIL siRNA reduces platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-stimulated VSMC proliferation and migration. PDGF-BB-inducible VSMC proliferation was completely inhibited in VSMCs isolated from aortas of TRAIL(-/-) mice; whereas inducible migration was blocked compared to control VSMCs. TRAIL transcriptional control mediating this response is not established. TRAIL mRNA, protein and promoter activity was increased by PDGF-BB and subsequently inhibited by dominant-negative Sp1, suggesting that the transcription factor Sp1 plays a role. Sp1 bound multiple Sp1 sites on the TRAIL promoter, including two established (Sp1-1 and -2) and two novel Sp1-5/6 and -7 sites. PDGF-BB-inducible TRAIL promoter activity by Sp1 was mediated through these sites, since transverse mutations to each abolished inducible activity. PDGF-BB stimulation increased acetylation of histone-3 (ac-H3) and expression of the transcriptional co-activator p300, implicating chromatin remodelling. p300 overexpression increased TRAIL promoter activity, which was blocked by dominant-negative Sp1. Furthermore, PDGF-BB treatment increased the physical interaction of Sp1, p300 and ac-H3, while chromatin immunoprecipitation studies revealed Sp1, p300 and ac-H3 enrichment on the TRAIL promoter. Taken together, our studies demonstrate for the first time that PDGF-BB-induced TRAIL transcriptional activity requires the cooperation of Sp1, ac-H3 and p300, mediating increased expression of TRAIL which is important for VSMC proliferation and migration. Our findings have the promising potential for targeting TRAIL as a new therapeutic for vascular proliferative disorders.
Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) induces death receptor 5 networks that are highly organized.	Recent evidence suggests that TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), a death-inducing cytokine with anti-tumor potential, initiates apoptosis by re-organizing TRAIL receptors into large clusters, although the structure of these clusters and the mechanism by which they assemble are unknown. Here, we demonstrate that TRAIL receptor 2 (DR5) forms receptor dimers in a ligand-dependent manner at endogenous receptor levels, and these receptor dimers exist within high molecular weight networks. Using mutational analysis, FRET, fluorescence microscopy, synthetic biochemistry, and molecular modeling, we find that receptor dimerization relies upon covalent and noncovalent interactions between membrane-proximal residues. Additionally, by using FRET, we show that the oligomeric structure of two functional isoforms of DR5 is indistinguishable. The resulting model of DR5 activation should revise the accepted architecture of the functioning units of DR5 and the structurally homologous TNF receptor superfamily members.
IFN-γ-primed human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells induce tumor cell apoptosis in vitro via tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.	Human mesenchymal stem cells hold promise as gene therapy vectors for delivery of various genes to solid tumors for either therapeutic or tumor-tracing purposes. However, whether Mesenchymal stem cells support or inhibit tumor growth remains unknown. Herein, we first observed that mesenchymal stem cells primed with IFN-γ selectively induced the death of tumor cell lines, but not normal cells. We further identified that IFN-γ-primed mesenchymal stem cells expressed tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. Tumor-suppressive effect of IFN-γ-primed mesenchymal stem cells could be blocked by activity neutralization or expression reduction of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. Moreover, mesenchymal stem cells mediated apoptosis of tumor cells by activating caspase-3 in such cells, via a mechanism involving tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. However, when IFN-γ-primed or non-primed mesenchymal stem cells were co-injected into nude mice along with H460 cells, tumor growth was much faster than that of the group receiving only tumor cells (p<0.01) because of the promoting vascularization effect of mesenchymal stem cells, although IFN-γ-primed mesenchymal stem cells also exerted a certain degree of tumor-suppressive effect compared with non-primed cells (2.79±0.9 g versus 2.03±0.6 g). Collectively, our findings show that IFN-γ-primed human mesenchymal stem cells could induce cancer cell apoptosis via TRAIL-mediated pathway. In addition, our data afford a novel explanation of the opposing effects of hMSCs presence on tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Thus, more attention needs to be paid when seeking to exploit mesenchymal stem cells as a therapeutic option under the condition of malignant tumor.
Apigenin induces apoptosis via tumor necrosis factor receptor- and Bcl-2-mediated pathway and enhances susceptibility of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma to 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin.	Apigenin, a natural plant flavone, may have chemopreventive and therapeutic potentials for anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-cancer. Nevertheless, the anti-tumor effect of apigenin on human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is not fully understood.
TRAIL but not FasL and TNFα, regulates IL-33 expression in murine hepatocytes during acute hepatitis.	Interleukin (IL)-33, a member of the IL-1 cytokine family, positively correlates with acute hepatitis and chronic liver failure in mice and humans. IL-33 is expressed in hepatocytes and is regulated by natural killer T (NKT) cells during concanavalin A (ConA)-induced acute liver injury. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the expression of IL-33 during acute hepatitis. The expression of IL-33 and its regulation by death receptor pathways was investigated after the induction of ConA-acute hepatitis in wildtype (WT), perforin(-/-) , tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL)(-/-) , and NKT cell-deficient (CD1d(-/-) ) mice. In addition, we used a model of acute liver injury by administering Jo2/Fas-antibody or D-galactosamine-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) in WT mice. Finally, the effect of TRAIL on IL-33 expression was assessed in primary cultured murine hepatocytes. We show that IL-33 expression in hepatocytes is partially controlled by perforin during acute liver injury, but not by TNFα or Fas ligand (FasL). Interestingly, the expression of IL-33 in hepatocytes is blocked during ConA-acute hepatitis in TRAIL-deficient mice compared to WT mice. In contrast, administration of recombinant murine TRAIL associated with ConA-priming in CD1d-deficient mice or in vitro stimulation of murine hepatocytes by TRAIL but not by TNFα or Jo2 induced IL-33 expression in hepatocytes. The IL-33-deficient mice exhibited more severe ConA liver injury than WT controls, suggesting a protective effect of IL-33 in ConA-hepatitis.
Cordycepin increases sensitivity of Hep3B human hepatocellular carcinoma cells to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis by inactivating the JNK signaling pathway.	Resistance to tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis‑inducing ligand (TRAIL)-induced apoptosis has been reported in various cancer cells. Cordycepin, a specific polyadenylation inhibitor, is the main functional component in Cordyceps militaris, which possesses many pharmacological activities including antitumor and anti-inflammation. In the present study, we demonstrated that treatment of cordycepin sensitized TRAIL-resistant Hep3B human hepatocellular carcinoma cells to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis as evidenced by formation of apoptotic bodies, chromatin condensation and accumulation of cells in the sub-G1 phase. The induction of apoptosis following co-treatment with cordycepin and TRAIL in Hep3B cells appeared to be correlated with modulation of Bcl-2 family protein expression and activation of the caspase cascade, which resulted in the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and β-catenin. In addition, cordycepin treatment also inhibited activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Pretreatment with SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, resulted in a significantly increased sub-G1 population and caspase activity in cordycepin plus TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Taken together, these results indicate that JNK acts as a key regulator of apoptosis in response to combined treatment with cordycepin and TRAIL in human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep3B cells.
Luteolin sensitizes human 786-O renal cell carcinoma cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) has been considered to be one of the most promising candidates in research on treatments for cancer, including renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, many cells are resistant to TRAIL-induced apoptosis which limits the potential application of TRAIL in cancer therapy. Luteolin, a naturally occurring flavonoid, has been identified as a potential therapeutic and preventive agent for cancer because of its potent cancer cell-killing activity. In this study, we investigated whether luteolin treatment could modulate TRAIL-induced apoptosis in RCC.
Structurally engineered anodic alumina nanotubes as nano-carriers for delivery of anticancer therapeutics.	Here, we report a study on the biocompatibility, cell uptake and in vitro delivery of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (Apo2L/TRAIL) by new nano-carriers called anodic alumina nanotubes (AANTs) for potential cancer therapy. AANTs were electrochemically engineered by a unique pulse anodization process, which enables precise control of the nanotube geometry, and used here as nano-carriers for drug delivery. In vitro cytotoxicity and cell uptake of AANTs was assessed using MDA-MB231-TXSA human breast cancer cells and mouse RAW 264.7 macrophage cells. AANTs exhibited excellent biocompatibility in both cell lines over a time course of five days even at a maximum concentration of AANTs of 100 μgmL(-1). Transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy confirmed a significant uptake of AANTs by RAW 264.7 cells and breast cancer cells. AANTs loaded with the pro-apoptotic protein Apo2L/TRAIL showed exceptional loading capacity (104 ± 14.4 μgmg(-1) of AANTs) and demonstrated significant decrease in viability of MDA-MB231-TXSA cancer cells due to apoptosis induction. These results demonstrate that AANTs are promising nano-carriers for drug delivery applications. 
Targeting c-Met receptor overcomes TRAIL-resistance in brain tumors.	Tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) induced apoptosis specifically in tumor cells. However, with approximately half of all known tumor lines being resistant to TRAIL, the identification of TRAIL sensitizers and their mechanism of action become critical to broadly use TRAIL as a therapeutic agent. In this study, we explored whether c-Met protein contributes to TRAIL sensitivity. We found a direct correlation between the c-Met expression level and TRAIL resistance. We show that the knock down c-Met protein, but not inhibition, sensitized brain tumor cells to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis by interrupting the interaction between c-Met and TRAIL cognate death receptor (DR) 5. This interruption greatly induces the formation of death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) and subsequent downstream apoptosis signaling. Using intracranially implanted brain tumor cells and stem cell (SC) lines engineered with different combinations of fluorescent and bioluminescent proteins, we show that SC expressing a potent and secretable TRAIL (S-TRAIL) have a significant anti-tumor effect in mice bearing c-Met knock down of TRAIL-resistant brain tumors. To our best knowledge, this is the first study that demonstrates c-Met contributes to TRAIL sensitivity of brain tumor cells and has implications for developing effective therapies for brain tumor patients. 
