Stress reinstates nicotine seeking but not sucrose solution seeking in rats.	Intermittent footshock stress effectively reinstates extinguished heroin-, cocaine- and alcohol-taking behaviors, but not behaviors previously maintained by food reinforcers. Here we tested further the generality of the phenomenon of stress-induced reinstatement by determining the effect of footshock on reinstatement of operant responding previously maintained by nicotine or palatable sucrose solutions.
Nicotine dependence therapy: medical counselling and other non pharmacological interventions]	Cigarette smoking and nicotine dependence represent a complex disease. In the treatment program design the combination of non pharmacological and pharmacological therapy, the concurrence of physicians and other health professionals has been demonstrated the most successful therapeutic approach. This article reviews the main evidence based non pharmacological interventions. Social support request, self-monitoring and smoking behaviour modification are cornerstones of the preparation to quit. Post cessation counselling is mainly focused on problem solving activities. The complementary use of exercise and relaxation training is also evaluated.
Motivational factors related to quitting smoking among prisoners during a smoking ban.	Motivational factors and initial stages of change (precontemplation vs. contemplation) were investigated among incarcerated male smokers forced to quit smoking due to a statewide smoking ban. All smokers completed a baseline questionnaire, which assessed smoking history, nicotine dependence [Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND)], nicotine withdrawal [Hughes-Hatsukami Withdrawal Scale (HHWS)], and depression [Center for Epidemiological Studies on Depression (CES-D)]. These measures were given again 4 days (Time 2) and 1 month (Time 3) following the smoking ban. At baseline (n=314), 31.2% of smokers were contemplating quitting within 6 months (contemplators), while the majority of smokers (68.8%) indicated they had not considered quitting (precontemplators). Contemplators at Time 2 reported more success with quitting smoking than precontemplators, although this was no longer significant by Time 3. Logistic regression was used to determine the probability of determining initial stages of change based on demographic and smoking history variables. Smokers in precontemplation scored higher on the FTND, reported less agreement with the smoking policy at baseline, reported more difficulty with their previous quit attempts, and reported increased smoking in anticipation of the smoking ban. The risk of being a precontemplator was over twice as high for smokers who reported increasing the amount they smoked prior to the smoking ban (odds ratio=2.42). Overall, this model correctly classified 70.7% of the smokers. This suggests that initial stages of change plays an important role in eventual quitting even in environments in which smoking has been recently prohibited.
Smoking patterns and abstinence effects in smokers with no ADHD, childhood ADHD, and adult ADHD symptomatology.	Cigarette smokers are known to be overrepresented among adults with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). To date, however, no attempt has been made to determine the extent to which a lifetime diagnosis of ADHD may be associated with smoking even in the absence of current symptomatology. We hypothesized that nicotine dependence and abstinence effects-especially effects relevant to ADHD symptomatology-would be more pronounced in adult ADHD smokers in comparison with those who reported childhood ADHD symptoms only. Results indicated that, in contrast to controls without ADHD symptomatology, both adult and childhood ADHD groups were significantly more likely to experience a number of nicotine withdrawal symptoms, including irritability and difficulty concentrating; in no instance did the ADHD groups differ from one another in this regard. Thus, studying people with childhood symptoms of ADHD, even in the absence of an adult diagnosis, may shed light on the known association between smoking and ADHD.
Experimental application of virtual reality for nicotine craving through cue exposure.	Research has shown that many smokers experience an increase in the desire to smoke when exposed to smoking-related cues. Cue exposure treatment (CET) refers to the manualized, repeated exposure to smoking-related cues, aimed at the reducing cue reactivity by extinction. In this study, we constructed a virtual reality system for evoking a desire of nicotine, which was based on the results of a Questionnaire of Nicotine-craving. And we investigated the effectiveness of the virtual reality system as compared to classical device (pictures). As a result, we reached the conclusion that virtual reality elicits more craving symptoms than the classical devices.
Improving contingency management programs for addiction.	Contingency management interventions effectively reduce or eliminate some individuals' problem substance use. Typically, those who do not benefit never experience the reward or planned contingency available through the intervention because they never produce the behavior (often abstinence) on which the reward is contingent. With two analog studies, we examine whether the effectiveness contingency management interventions improves when contingencies are arranged in ways that improve the likelihood of all participants experiencing the available reward. Participants were smokers not planning to quit. In Study 1, smokers were paid 0, 1, 3, 10, or 30 dollars each day for 5 days for delivery of breath carbon monoxide (CO) levels either < or =4 ppm or below half the median of their baseline levels. Higher payment amounts and the easier target criterion resulted in a higher likelihood of participants meeting criterion. Once participants met the 4 ppm criterion, however, they often maintained this behavior even in the absence of payments for reduced breath CO levels. An ineffective contingency management system was made effective based on these results. Study 2 examined the effectiveness of percentile schedules at reducing breath CO levels. Percentile schedules shaped lower breath CO levels. The effectiveness of percentile schedules in shaping abstinence was tested in treatment seekers, and percentile schedules were found to be effective at shaping abstinence.
Nicotine dependence and HIV risk behaviors among illicit drug users.	This study was concerned with examining the relation between nicotine dependence and HIV risk behaviors in a sample of 297 out-of-treatment drug users. A number of significant relationships were found between nicotine dependence and HIV risk behaviors. Crack-smoking injectors were found to have a higher degree of nicotine dependence when compared with exclusive injectors or exclusive crack smokers. Participants' impulsivity may be one possible reason why nicotine dependence is related to HIV risk behaviors. The results also suggest that drug abuse programs make available smoking cessation programs.
A multiple motives approach to tobacco dependence: the Wisconsin Inventory of Smoking Dependence Motives (WISDM-68).	The dependence construct fills an important explanatory role in motivational accounts of smoking and relapse. Frequently used measures of dependence are either atheoretical or grounded in a unidimensional model of physical dependence. This research creates a multidimensional measure of dependence that is based on theoretically grounded motives for drug use and is intended to reflect mechanisms underlying dependence. Data collected from a large sample of smokers (N = 775) indicated that all 13 subscales of the Wisconsin Inventory of Smoking Dependence Motives (WISDM-68) have acceptable internal consistency, are differentially present across levels of smoking heaviness, and have a multidimensional structure. Validity analyses indicated the WISDM-68 subscales are significantly related to dependence criteria such as smoking heaviness and to 4th edition Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders symptoms of dependence and relapse.
Attentional and evaluative biases for smoking cues in nicotine dependence: component processes of biases in visual orienting.	The present study investigated attentional and evaluative biases for smoking-related cues in cigarette smokers and non-smokers. Using a visual probe task, we manipulated the presentation conditions of the stimuli to examine: (1). whether smokers have a bias to allocate attention towards smoking-related pictures that appear below the threshold of conscious awareness; and (2). whether attentional biases for smoking-related pictures that appear above the threshold of awareness operate both in initial orienting and in the maintenance of attention. We also obtained explicit and implicit measures of the valence of the smoking-related pictures from pleasantness ratings and from behavioural responses on a stimulus-response compatibility (SRC) task. Results showed that smokers, but not non-smokers, had an attentional bias for smoking-related pictures which had been presented at two exposure durations (200 and 2000 ms). The bias was not found in a brief (17 ms) masked exposure condition, so there was no evidence that it operated preconsciously. Smokers also showed greater preferences for smoking-related than control cues, compared with non-smokers, on both the explicit and implicit indices of stimulus valence. Results are discussed with reference to incentive and cognitive models of addiction.
Defining a never-smoker: results from the nonsmokers survey.	The U.S. Centers for Disease Control defines a never-smoker as someone who has smoked < 100 cigarettes per lifetime. In an attempt to explore differences among nonsmokers and to validate this cutpoint, we surveyed 69 nonsmokers who had smoked between 1 and 200 cigarettes in their lifetime on their experiences during the time they smoked. Of the 7 who classified themselves as ex-smokers, 2 met DSM-IV criteria for nicotine dependence, compared with none who classified themselves as never-smokers. No respondents provided data permitting the computation of a Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND) score. Withdrawal effects were minimal, but craving, tolerance, and subjective effects showed a pattern of significant differences that were most prominent between those who smoked only 1 cigarette and those who smoked at least a pack. Our data indicate a graded effect but also suggest that 19 cigarettes per lifetime is a more conservative cutpoint than 99 for defining the never-smoker phenotype. Further investigation of the smoking trajectory and characteristics associated with development of signs of dependence in never- vs. ever-smokers may help refine this cutpoint and shed light on what protects some people who experiment with smoking from becoming chronic users.
Relationship between early experiences with tobacco and early experiences with alcohol.	Initial sensitivity to substances may affect patterns of future use and dependence. Because smoking and alcohol use are strongly linked, because animal studies indicate cross-sensitivity, and because genetic determinants of nicotine and alcohol dependence overlap, we studied the relationships between retrospectively reported responses to both substances in current smokers (n = 111) and never-smokers (n = 86). Early smoking experiences were correlated with comparable responses to alcohol in smokers, and to a lesser extent, in never-smokers. Both pleasurable early experiences with nicotine and pleasurable experiences with alcohol predicted current alcohol intake; pleasurable early experiences with alcohol also predicted alcohol dependence. Neither pleasurable nor displeasurable experiences with either substance predicted current amount smoked or degree of nicotine dependence. These preliminary findings may have implications for understanding the mechanisms underlying the smoking-alcohol link.
Repeated administration of the GABAB receptor agonist CGP44532 decreased nicotine self-administration, and acute administration decreased cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine-seeking in rats.	Acute administration of gamma-aminobutyric acid B (GABAB) receptor agonists decreased nicotine, cocaine, ethanol, and heroin self-administration. GABAB receptor agonists also decreased cue-induced cocaine craving or seeking in humans and animals, respectively. The present study investigated the effects of repeated subcutaneous administration of the GABAB receptor agonist CGP44532 on nicotine- and food-maintained responding under a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement. The second part of the study determined whether contingent presentation of previously nicotine-associated cues reinstated extinguished nicotine-seeking behavior, and whether acute subcutaneous CGP44532 administration affected cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished nicotine-seeking behavior. The results indicated that repeated administration of 0.25 mg/kg CGP44532 selectively decreased nicotine self-administration compared to food-maintained responding during the first 7 days of treatment. Repeated administration of 0.5 mg/kg/day CGP44532 nonselectively decreased both nicotine- and food-maintained responding. Contingent presentation of previously nicotine-associated cues reinstated extinguished nicotine-seeking behavior. Further, acute CGP44532 administration (0.125 and 0.25 mg/kg) decreased cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine-seeking behavior. In summary, the present results indicated that 0.25 mg/kg/day CGP44532 selectively decreased nicotine self-administration compared to food-maintained responding, and acute administration of CGP44532 (0.125 and 0.25 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine-seeking behavior.
Nicotine-associated cues maintain nicotine-seeking behavior in rats several weeks after nicotine withdrawal: reversal by the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant (SR141716).	Conditioned stimuli are important for nicotine dependence and may trigger craving and relapse after prolonged nicotine abstinence. However, little is known about the pharmacology of this process. Among the systems that have been shown to play a role in drug-seeking behavior is the endocannabinoid transmission. Therefore, the present study examined the resistance to extinction of drug-seeking behavior elicited by nicotine-associated environmental stimuli and the effects of the selective CB1 cannabinoid antagonist rimonabant (SR141716) on the reinforcing effects of nicotine-related stimuli. Rats were trained to self-administer nicotine (0.03 mg/kg/injection, i.v.) under conditions in which responding was reinforced jointly by response-contingent nicotine injections and stimuli (light and tone). After self-administration acquisition, nicotine was withdrawn and lever pressing was only reinforced by contingent presentation of the audiovisual stimuli. Under such a condition, responding persisted for 3 months, following which nonpresentation of the cues produced a progressive extinction of responding. As expected, rats trained to lever-press for saline injections paired with the audiovisual stimuli did not acquire the self-administration. These findings indicate that the cues required learned association with nicotine to acquire reinforcing properties and to function as conditioned reinforcers. When administered 1 month following nicotine withdrawal, rimonabant (1 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased conditioned behavior. These results showing the persistence of a nicotine-conditioned behavior are congruent with the role of nicotine-related environmental stimuli in nicotine craving in abstinent smokers. Rimonabant, which has been shown previously to reduce nicotine self-administration, may be effective not only as an aid for smoking cessation but also in the maintenance of abstinence.
Methadone and nicotine self-administration in humans: a behavioral economic analysis.	Prior research has revealed inconsistencies in the behavioral relations between nicotine and opiates among methadone-maintained patients.
Advocacy in action: extreme corporate makeover interruptus: denormalising tobacco industry corporate schmoozing.	The tobacco industry continues to seek corporate "respectability", despite being responsible for the deaths of millions of smokers worldwide every year.
The effects of a prison smoking ban on smoking behavior and withdrawal symptoms.	This study investigated symptoms of distress and nicotine dependence as predictors of nicotine withdrawal symptoms among 188 incarcerated male smokers during a mandated smoking ban. Participants completed a smoking history questionnaire and measures of nicotine dependence, withdrawal, cravings, and distress before the ban and two follow-up times. The majority of smokers (76%) continued to smoke following the smoking ban. Smokers after the ban were more nicotine dependent than were the participants who reported quitting. Smokers also reported more withdrawal symptoms than did participants who quit, even when accounting for nicotine dependence and baseline withdrawal scores. An interaction was found such that distressed smokers had the highest level of nicotine withdrawal. These results have implications for how smoking bans are instituted in prison settings.
Nicotine dependence and symptoms in schizophrenia: naturalistic study of complex interactions.	Smoking may have a beneficial effect on either schizophrenic symptoms or antipsychotic side-effects, but studies are hampered by the lack of control of confounding factors.
Cigarette smoking and lesbian and bisexual women in the Bronx.	This study investigated the prevalence of cigarette smoking, smoking patterns, and smoking cessation efforts of Black and Hispanic lesbian and bisexual women from a poor, urban community. One-on-one interviews were conducted with a convenience sample of 130 self-identified Black and Hispanic lesbian and bisexual women from the Bronx, NY. Bivariate statistics were used to determine differences between Black and Hispanic respondents in smoking prevalence, frequency, desire to quit, and impact on family unit. Fifty-five percent of Black respondents and sixty-two percent of Hispanic respondents were current smokers. Hispanics were more likely than Blacks to have a partner (p < 0.04), 2 or more children (p < 0.05), and an asthmatic in their household (p < 0.02). Hispanics were less likely than Blacks to have ever attempted to quit (p < 0.04) and to have made a serious attempt to quit in the past year (p < 0.02). Culturally sensitive interventions are needed to help Hispanic lesbian and bisexual women move from the pre-contemplative to action stage of quitting. The large proportion of current smokers requires greater access to effective smoking cessation tools.
Nurses and smoking: review and implications.	An analysis of smoking behavior among nurses shows unacceptably high levels of smoking, despite some evidence of a downward trend. In this article, the nature of tobacco dependence is examined, and an extensive review of demographic and causative factors associated with the smoking behavior of nurses is presented. The impact of smoking on the practice of nurses, particularly related to their ability to serve as health educators and role models, is critically examined. Areas for potential research and inquiry, along with some overall strategies for intervention, are identified.
Nicotine dependence, use of illegal drugs and psychiatric morbidity.	The purpose of this study was to examine the association of smoking and nicotine dependence with psychiatric morbidity, controlling for the potential confounding effect of smoking on the relationship between the use of other substances and psychiatric morbidity. A sample of 290 adults were interviewed at a primary health centre (patients, 58%; patients' relatives, 34%; staff, 8%) to inquire about their tobacco, caffeine, alcohol, and illegal drug consumption. Psychiatric morbidity, defined by a score >6 on the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-28), showed a strong direct association with nicotine dependence. The use of illegal drugs, but not of alcohol, was also strongly associated with psychiatric morbidity, after controlling for smoking. Both smoking and high nicotine dependence were also associated with use of caffeine, alcohol, cannabis and cocaine. High nicotine dependence may be considered as an expression of individual psychopathologic vulnerability. Tobacco may have a central facilitating role in the use of caffeine, alcohol, and illegal drug.
Effects of partner smoking status and gender on long term abstinence rates of patients receiving smoking cessation treatment.	To assess the effect of partner smoking status on the success of a cessation program.
Modalities of drug consumption among male prostitutes]	This article deals with the modalities of licit and illicit drug consumption among male prostitutes and the meanings attributed to them. It is an account of a research carried out with a questionnaire, among 252 prostitutes (124 transvestites and 128 hustlers), of which 30 (15 of each category) agreed to an in depth interview. According to the quantitative data, 79% regularly consumed alcohol, 75% tobacco, and 56% cannabis. During the 30 days preceding the research, 14 declared to have used sleeping pills, 13% poppers, 8% cocaine, and 7% ecstasy. However, the interviews showed that not all of them shared the same views on the different substances and that many different consumption logics could be detected, pointing to different perceptions according to the context in which consumption occurred and their position in regard to prostitution.
Effects of alternative reinforcer and craving on the choice to smoke cigarettes in the laboratory.	We examined to what extent craving for cigarettes and the magnitude of an alternative monetary reinforcer were predictors of the choice to smoke in the human laboratory. Twelve non-treatment-seeking nicotine-dependent volunteers participated in a series of outpatient sessions during which they had repeated opportunities to select between three puffs of a cigarette and a variety of monetary alternatives ($0.50-3), responding under a progressive-ratio schedule. Level of cigarette craving was measured at baseline and between each choice opportunity. The probability of choosing a cigarette decreased significantly with the increase in the magnitude of the alternative reinforcer. Baseline level of craving did not significantly alter the probability of choosing a cigarette, but a craving component related to the anticipation of positive effects from smoking, assessed repeatedly between choice opportunities, was predictive of the choice to smoke. These results demonstrate that the cigarette puff self-administration procedure is sensitive to environmental manipulations and cigarette puff choice can be modified by the availability of an alternative reinforcer. This paradigm models the motivational component associated with choice to smoke and could be used to evaluate the effects of pharmacological and behavioral interventions to decrease cigarette smoking.
The reinforcement enhancing effects of nicotine depend on the incentive value of non-drug reinforcers and increase with repeated drug injections.	We have hypothesized that nicotine has two effects on reinforcement; it increases the probability of responses resulting in nicotine delivery (primary reinforcement) and enhances the apparent reward value of non-nicotine reinforcers (reinforcement enhancing effect). The present studies investigated two predictions generated by this hypothesis: (1) that the reinforcement enhancing effect will depend on apparent stimulus reward value and (2) that the temporal profile of this effect would depend on the pharmacological profile of nicotine. In Experiment 1, rats were trained to lever press for one of two audio-visual stimuli that differed in their intrinsic reinforcing value and then the effect of pre-session nicotine (0.4 mg/kg base) or saline injections was tested. The stimulus that supported very low rates of operant responding displayed smaller increases in responding after pre-session injections of nicotine. In Experiment 2 the effect of nicotine injected 5 min before the session was compared to the effect of nicotine injected 1h after the session using the more reinforcing stimulus condition from the first experiment. A control group received only vehicle injections. In contrast to nicotine injected just prior to the session, post-session injections of nicotine had no detectable effect on responding for the more reinforcing stimulus. These results indicate that the reinforcement enhancing action of nicotine depends on the intensity of the primary reinforcer and that enhanced reinforcement by nicotine depends on coincident access to a stimulus with reinforcing properties.
Smoking cessation 3: multicomponent interventions.	In part 3 of this 3-part review of interventions for tobacco dependence, the authors focus on multicomponent interventions for smoking cessation. Interventions that combine behavioral and pharmacological components have been known to increase abstinence relative to a single type of therapy. Therefore, multicomponent interventions are recommended. The authors present both a brief intervention model and a multiple-session intervention model. These models can be used to create brief intensive, and quitline intervention programs and can be tailored to various types of clinicians and settings. The clinician can choose a multicomponent intervention program that is best suited to the patient's needs and preferences as well as to the clinical setting.
Effects of smoking abstinence and alcohol consumption on smoking-related outcome expectancies in heavy smokers and tobacco chippers.	Smoking cessation interventions often target expectancies about the consequences of smoking. Yet little is known about the way smoking-related expectancies vary across different contexts. Two internal contexts that are often linked with smoking relapse are states associated with smoking abstinence and alcohol consumption. This report presents a secondary analysis of data from two experiments designed to examine the influence of smoking abstinence, and smoking abstinence combined with alcohol consumption, on smoking-related outcome expectancies among heavy smokers and tobacco chippers (smokers who had consistently smoked no more than 5 cigarettes/day for at least 2 years). Across both experiments, smoking abstinence and alcohol consumption increased expectancies of positive reinforcement from smoking. In addition, alcohol consumption increased negative reinforcement expectancies among tobacco chippers, such that the expectancies became more similar to those of heavy smokers as tobacco chippers' level of subjective alcohol intoxication increased. Findings suggest that these altered states influence the way smokers evaluate the consequences of smoking, and provide insight into the link between smoking abstinence, alcohol consumption, and smoking behavior.
Changes in smoking associated with an acute health event: theoretical and practical implications.	Experiencing a serious adverse behavior-related consequence may motivate behavior change.
Smoking cessation after acupuncture treatment.	Acupuncture is applied, especially in treatment of pain, hemiplegia, obesity, and psychological illnesses including addiction. Recently, ear and body acupuncture have been frequently used in the treatment of smoking. An increase in levels of endorphin, enkephalin, epinephrine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine in the central nervous system and plasma has been reported as the most important mechanism of acupuncture. That is, acupuncture application may increase the levels of endorphin, enkephalin, epinephrine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine in the central nervous system and plasma. The authors think that acupuncture application provides the patients with deterioration in the taste of smoking, decrease in desire of smoking, and the obstruction of psychological symptoms that appear as a result of smoking cessation. Because of these effects it is presumed that acupuncture application may be used as an important method for smoking cessation treatment.
Effects of internet-based voucher reinforcement and a transdermal nicotine patch on cigarette smoking.	Nicotine replacement products are commonly used to promote smoking cessation, but alternative and complementary methods may increase cessation rates. The current experiment compared the short-term effects of a transdermal nicotine patch to voucher-based reinforcement of smoking abstinence on cigarette smoking. Fourteen heavy smokers (7 men and 7 women) completed the four 5-day phases of the study: baseline, patch treatment, voucher treatment, and return to baseline. The order of the two treatment phases was counterbalanced across participants. In the patch treatment condition, participants wore a 14-mg transdermal nicotine patch every day. In the voucher treatment condition, participants received vouchers contingent on abstinence from smoking, defined as producing carbon monoxide (CO) readings of < or =4 parts per million. Participants e-mailed two video clips per day showing them breathing into a CO monitor and the resulting CO reading to clinic staff. In the voucher treatment, 24% of samples were negative, and 5% of samples were negative in the patch treatment. Results suggest that contingent vouchers were more effective than transdermal nicotine patches in promoting abstinence.
Use of eye movement to measure smokers' attentional bias to smoking-related cues.	Smokers have attentional biases towards smoking-related cues, and such cues elicit cravings. Smokers also feel anxious during nicotine deprivation, and anxiety may exacerbate attentional biases toward aversive cues. We examined the attentional bias of smokers (n = 14) and a control group of nonsmokers (n = 16) towards smoking-related and aversive cues. Using an eye-tracking device, we measured eye movement when smoking-related, aversive, and control cues were presented simultaneously. We analyzed the number of initial fixations, and gaze duration, to identify the attentional bias. Smokers initially fixed their gaze on aversive cues, and maintained their gaze longer on smoking-related cues, in comparison to the control group. These results suggest that smokers show biased attentional orientation to smoking-related and aversive cues.
Cigarette smoking and addiction.	Tobacco use is a form of drug addiction, as shown by studies assessing the abuse liability of tobacco and nicotine in humans and animals. Tobacco experimentation frequently leads to daily use, which is characterized by a highly consistent pattern of drug intake. Such a pattern is controlled by the biologic concentrations of nicotine, a psychoactive constituent of tobacco smoke. Nicotine is a euphoriant, self-administered by humans as well as by animals in laboratory settings. Nicotine controls smokers' behavior in such a way that reducing or suppressing tobacco consumption produces a withdrawal syndrome characterized by irritability, difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairments, and weight gain. Nonpharmacologic factors are also important determinants of tobacco addiction that interfere with successful cessation. Strategies to treat tobacco addiction are comparable to those developed for other drug addictions. For example, therapy may include the use of alternate forms of nicotine and possibly also nicotine antagonists and medications targeted to alleviate specific withdrawal symptoms, if such therapies become available. As in all drug addiction treatment strategies, behavioral intervention is important whether or not a medication is used.
Prevalence of and associations with waterpipe tobacco smoking among U.S. university students.	Although waterpipe tobacco smoking seems to be increasing on U.S. university campuses, these data have come from convenience samples.
Correlates of transitions in stage of change for quitting among adolescent smokers.	Longitudinal studies have been conducted to evaluate correlates of stage of change movement among adult smokers but no studies were found to be conducted among adolescent smokers. This study used longitudinal data to examine adolescents' abstinence self-efficacy over 10-week and six-month periods and determined whether stage transitions were associated with concomitant changes or baseline values in perceived abstinence self-efficacy, nicotine dependence and motivation to quit. From baseline to 10-weeks results showed a change in motivation to quit and baseline stage were significantly associated with stage progression and regression. Additionally, intervention school status was significantly associated with stage progression. On the other hand, baseline score for nicotine dependence predicted stage regression not progression. Adolescents' becoming more or less 'ready' to quit smoking are influenced by their nicotine dependence and motivation to quit.
Does precontemplation represent a homogeneous stage category? A latent class analysis on German smokers.	The authors examined the subtype structure of smokers classified in the precontemplation stage of change within the transtheoretical model. From a general practice-based sample of 1,499 daily smoking patients from Germany (participation rate 80%), they used a subgroup of 929 smokers who were classified in the precontemplation stage and applied latent class analysis, using the pros and cons of nonsmoking and smoking cessation self-efficacy as the defining variables. Cross-sectional validation of the emerging classes was based on smoking behavior and processes of change variables. For longitudinal validation, generalized estimation equation analyses were used on motivational and abstinence criteria from 6-, 12-, 18-, and 24-month follow-ups. A 4-class model best represented the data. Three subtypes (labeled progressive, immotive, and disengaged pessimistic) were similar to clusters identified in U.S. studies. The 4th (disengaged optimistic), by contrast, was reminiscent of a type that had previously only emerged in a Dutch study. Cross-sectional and longitudinal validation results confirmed the distinctiveness and predictive power of the classes. The findings highlight the importance of tailoring interventions for smoking behavior change to the needs of different subgroups of precontemplating smokers.
Does smoking cue-induced craving tell us anything important about nicotine dependence?	Cue-reactivity, or self-reported craving response to drug-associated stimuli, is an active area of research on factors that maintain drug use, particularly cigarette smoking. A common rationale for this research is the expectation that treatments that extinguish cue-induced craving will be effective as smoking cessation interventions. Therefore, the importance of research on the variables that moderate and control cue-induced craving would seem to hinge upon the relevance of cue-induced craving to nicotine dependence, particularly its association with relapse risk. However, the limited relevant clinical research has not demonstrated clearly a link between smoking relapse risk and self-reported craving in response to smoking cues. Links between relapse and other responses to cues, such as heart rate or electrodermal activity, are inconsistent or not significant. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved smoking cessation medications have not been shown to alleviate cue-induced craving, although they do alleviate abstinence-induced craving, which has been associated with relapse risk. Nevertheless, other acute measures assessed in the laboratory have been shown to predict subsequent relapse risk in quitting smokers, demonstrating the feasibility of this type of study. Future research may benefit from using more reliable and valid multi-item craving measures, focusing upon more specific conditions under which cue-induced craving may predict relapse and, most importantly, considering dependent measures other than self-reported craving in response to cues, particularly actual smoking behavior. Without stronger evidence in support of the relevance of cue-induced craving response to the persistence of smoking behavior or other measures of dependence, it will be incumbent upon researchers in this area to justify why studies of cue-induced craving contribute to our understanding of dependence.
DSM-IV nicotine dependence symptom characteristics for recent-onset smokers.	This study evaluated how well DSM-IV nicotine dependence symptoms measure an underlying dependence construct for recent-onset daily and nondaily smokers.
Tobacco cessation via doctors of chiropractic: results of a feasibility study.	There is a sizeable and growing body of empirical literature on the effects of physician advice to quit smoking. Because of the association between tobacco use and the health problems that may provoke referral to chiropractic care, doctors of chiropractic (DCs) may be able to give patients personalized proximal health feedback that may motivate them to quit. However, DCs have not been utilized in this role. The primary aim of this study was to design and refine a brief office-based tobacco intervention for use within chiropractic settings.
Real-time craving differences between black and white smokers.	Black and White smokers may experience aspects of nicotine dependence, including craving, differently. This study used a naturalistic technique, ecological momentary assessment (EMA), to explore differences in craving, mood, expectancy, and smoking enjoyment between Black and White smokers. Participants carried personal digital assistants (PDAs) programmed to obtain multiple daily assessments. Black smokers reported higher craving after smoking and at random assessment times and higher cigarette enjoyment. No differences were found in mood or expectancy. Racial differences in psychological factors related to smoking are explored in the contexts of genetic, sociological, and psychophysiological distinctions. Implications for practice and research are discussed. (Am J Addict 2010;00:1-5).
Validity of a demand curve measure of nicotine reinforcement with adolescent smokers.	High or inelastic demand for drugs is central to many laboratory and theoretical models of drug abuse, but it has not been widely measured with human substance abusers. The authors used a simulated cigarette purchase task to generate a demand curve measure of nicotine reinforcement in a sample of 138 adolescent smokers. Participants reported the number of cigarettes they would purchase and smoke in a hypothetical day across a range of prices, and their responses were well-described by a regression equation that has been used to construct demand curves in drug self-administration studies. Several demand curve measures were generated, including breakpoint, intensity, elasticity, P(max), and O(max). Although simulated cigarette smoking was price sensitive, smoking levels were high (8+ cigarettes/day) at prices up to 50¢ per cigarette, and the majority of the sample reported that they would purchase at least 1 cigarette at prices as high as $2.50 per cigarette. Higher scores on the demand indices O(max) (maximum cigarette purchase expenditure), intensity (reported smoking level when cigarettes were free), and breakpoint (the first price to completely suppress consumption), and lower elasticity (sensitivity of cigarette consumption to increases in cost), were associated with greater levels of naturalistic smoking and nicotine dependence. Greater demand intensity was associated with lower motivation to change smoking. These results provide initial support for the validity of a self-report cigarette purchase task as a measure of economic demand for nicotine with adolescent smokers.
Cognitive conflict following appetitive versus negative cues and smoking cessation failure.	Attentional biases and executive control deficits may play a role in smoking cessation failure.
A comprehensive model for mental health tobacco recovery in new jersey.	Despite the high prevalence of tobacco use, disproportionate tobacco consumption, and excess morbidity and mortality, smokers with mental illness have reduced access to tobacco dependence treatment across the health care spectrum. We have developed a comprehensive model for Mental Health Tobacco Recovery in New Jersey (MHTR-NJ) that has the overarching goal of improving tobacco cessation for smokers with serious mental illness. Important steps involve engaging patients, professionals and the community to increase understanding that addressing tobacco use is important. In addition to increasing demand for tobacco treatment services, we must educate mental health professionals in evidence-based treatments so that patients can seek help in their usual behavioral health care setting. Peer services that offer hope and support to smokers are essential. Each of the policy or cessation initiatives described address the two core goals of this model: to increase demand for tobacco cessation services for mentally ill smokers and to help more smokers with mental illness to quit. Each has been pilot tested for feasibility and/or effectiveness and revised with feedback from stakeholders. In this way this implementation model has brought together academics, clinicians, administrators and mental health consumers to develop tobacco programming and policy that has been tested in a real world environment and serves as a model for other states.
Drinking motives in female smokers: factor structure, alcohol dependence, and genetic influences.	Alcohol and tobacco use often co-occur. Human and animal studies indicate that nicotine increases alcohol's rewarding effects and the motivation to consume it. The aims of this study were to examine whether the factorial architecture of self-reported motivations to consume alcohol differed between regular and nonregular cigarette smokers while taking into account the lifetime history of alcohol dependence and psychopathology, and to estimate the genetic and environmental influences on the motivations.
Smoking cue reactivity across massed extinction trials: negative affect and gender effects.	Designing and implementing cue exposure procedures to treat nicotine dependence remains a challenge. This study tested the hypothesis that gender and negative affect (NA) influence changes in smoking urge over time using data from a pilot project testing the feasibility of massed extinction procedures. Forty-three smokers and ex-smokers completed the behavioral laboratory procedures. All participants were over 17 years old, smoked at least 10 cigarettes daily over the last year (or the year prior to quitting) and had expired CO below 10 ppm at the beginning of the ~4-hour session. After informed consent, participants completed 45 min of baseline assessments, and then completed a series of 12 identical, 5-minute exposure trials with inter-trial breaks. Smoking cues included visual, tactile, and olfactory cues with a lit cigarette, in addition to smoking-related motor behaviors without smoking. After each trial, participants reported urge and negative affect (NA). Logistic growth curve models supported the hypothesis that across trials, participants would demonstrate an initial linear increase followed by a decrease in smoking urge (quadratic effect). Data supported hypothesized gender, NA, and gender×NA effects. Significant linear increases in urge were observed among high and low NA males, but not among females in either NA subgroup. A differential quadratic effect showed a significant decrease in urge for the low NA subgroup, but a non-significant decrease in urge in the high NA group. This is the first study to demonstrate gender differences and the effects of NA on the extinction process using a smoking cue exposure paradigm. Results could guide future cue reactivity research and exposure interventions for nicotine dependence.
Expectancies and intentions to use snus among Norwegian first-year students.	The prevalence of use of snus (low-nitrosamine smokeless tobacco, Swedish type) has reached epidemic proportions in parts of Northern Europe, and the trend is escalating. Knowledge of variables influencing use of snus is scarce, and this study set out to explore expectancies related to the use of snus as possible determinants of intentions to use snus in the next 6 months.
Tobacco use habits and beliefs among undergraduate medical and nursing students of two cities in southern India.	Unless effective tobacco control is in place, most tobacco-related deaths in the coming decades are likely to be seen in low- and middle-income countries. Tobacco surveillance among medical students offers an opportunity to assess the preparedness for tobacco control among future healthcare professionals in India.
Are tobacco dependence and withdrawal related amongst heavy smokers? Relevance to conceptualizations of dependence.	Measured tobacco dependence is typically only modestly related to tobacco withdrawal severity among regular smokers making a quit attempt. The weak association between dependence and withdrawal is notable because it conflicts with core theories of dependence and because both measures predict cessation outcomes, suggesting they both index a common dependence construct. This study used data from a smoking cessation comparative effectiveness trial (N = 1504) to characterize relations of tobacco dependence with craving and negative affect withdrawal symptoms using multiple dependence measures and analytic methods to detect both additive and interactive effects and to determine whether withdrawal meaningfully mediates the influence of dependence on smoking cessation. We conclude: (a) Although univariate analyses suggest dependence and withdrawal measures are only modestly interrelated, more powerful analytic techniques show they are, in fact, meaningfully related and their shared variance is associated with cessation likelihood; (b) there are clear differences between craving and negative affective withdrawal symptoms, with the former more related to smoking heaviness and the latter related to trait measures of negative affect; moreover, craving more strongly mediates dependence effects on cessation; and (c) both craving and negative affect withdrawal symptoms are strongly related to a pattern of regular smoking that is sensitive to the passage of time and powerfully affected by smoking cues. These findings support models that accord an important role for associative processes and withdrawal symptoms, especially craving, in drug dependence. The findings also support the use of withdrawal variables as criteria for the evaluation of dependence measures.
Relations of alcohol consumption with smoking cessation milestones and tobacco dependence.	Alcohol consumption is associated with smoking cessation failure in both community and clinical research. However, little is known about the relation between alcohol consumption and smoking cessation milestones (i.e., achieving initial abstinence, avoiding lapses and relapse). Our objective in this research was to examine the relations between pretreatment alcohol consumption patterns (non/infrequent drinker, moderate drinker, binge drinker) and smoking cessation milestones and tobacco dependence.
Snus user identity and addiction: a Swedish focus group study on adolescents.	The teenage years are the years when adolescents seek their identity, and part of this involves experimenting with tobacco. The use of tobacco as such, and norms among their friends, is more important to the adolescents than the norms of parents when it comes to using tobacco or not. The aim was to explore the significance of using snus for adolescents, and attitudes to snus, as well as the reasons why they began using snus and what maintained and facilitated the use of snus.
Motivation rulers for smoking cessation: a prospective observational examination of construct and predictive validity.	Although popular clinically, the psychometric properties of motivation rulers for tobacco cessation are unknown. This study examined the psychometric properties of rulers assessing importance, readiness, and confidence in tobacco cessation.
The effects of alcohol on responses to nicotine-containing and denicotinized cigarettes in dependent and nondaily smokers.	Alcohol consumption has been linked to increased tobacco use and craving in both dependent and nondaily smokers, yet the extent to which these relationships depend on interactions involving nicotine remains unclear. This study examined the acute effects of alcohol on the subjective and behavioral responses to nicotine-containing tobacco and denicotinized tobacco in 17 (10 male) dependent daily smokers (DDS) and 23 (11 male) nondependent nondaily smokers (NNS).
Anxiety and depressive symptoms and affective patterns of tobacco withdrawal.	The complex concordance and discordance across and within anxiety and depressive symptoms complicates understanding of the relation between emotional symptoms and manifestations of tobacco withdrawal. The goal of this study was to parse the broad variation in anxiety and depressive symptoms into conceptually discrete components and explore their relative predictive influence on affective patterns of acute tobacco withdrawal.
Smoking and psychopathology increasingly associated in recent birth cohorts.	In recent decades, smoking has become an increasingly non-normative behavior. Because deviant behaviors are associated with greater clinical and genetic risks, current-generation smokers may have greater concentrations of psychiatric comorbidity than previous generations. We examined this question empirically by testing whether associations between measures of smoking, psychiatric diagnoses, and risk-associated personality traits, increased across seven birth-cohorts of the 20th century.
A motivational profile for smoking among adolescents.	To characterize a motivational profile of reasons for smoking among teenagers. To investigate the influence of clinical and social elements on observed scores.
Ecological momentary assessment of posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms during a smoking quit attempt.	Smokers with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) tend to lapse more quickly following a quit attempt, which might be explained by changes in PTSD symptoms during a quit attempt. The present study examines changes in PTSD symptoms, negative affect, and craving before and during a quit attempt.
Does hangover influence the time to next drink? An investigation using ecological momentary assessment.	Measures of hangover are associated with current and future problematic alcohol use. At present, it is not known whether these associations reflect any direct influence of hangover events on near-term drinking behaviors. The current study aimed to determine whether hangover following a drinking episode influences time to next drink (TTND) and, if so, to determine the direction of this effect and identify any moderating personal or contextual factors.
Negative affect and smoking motives sequentially mediate the effect of panic attacks on tobacco-relevant processes.	Empirical work has documented a robust and consistent relation between panic attacks and smoking behavior. Theoretical models posit smokers with panic attacks may rely on smoking to help them manage chronically elevated negative affect due to uncomfortable bodily states, which may explain higher levels of nicotine dependence and quit problems.
Characteristics, perceived side effects and benefits of electronic cigarette use: a worldwide survey of more than 19,000 consumers.	Electronic cigarette (EC) use has grown exponentially over the past few years. The purpose of this survey was to assess the characteristics and experiences of a large sample of EC users and examine the differences between those who partially and completely substituted smoking with EC use.
Smokeless tobacco use among adolescents: correlates and concurrent predictors.	Seventh grade students (N = 1539) from three regions of New York State were surveyed to determine the prevalence of smokeless tobacco use and its relationship to seven background variables, 13 substance use variables, and 19 psychosocial variables. Significant correlations with smokeless tobacco use were found within each of these variable domains. Concurrent predictors for each domain were determined using logistic regression analysis. The resulting three models were combined in a stepwise fashion in an effort to determine the most complete prediction model. The final model indicated that individuals at the highest risk for using smokeless tobacco were rural males who had smoked more than four cigarettes in their lifetime, were more heavily involved with alcohol, had a lower degree of assertiveness and social anxiety, and had reported eating as a coping response. Implications for prevention are discussed.
Refined cigarette smoke as a method for reducing nicotine intake.	We developed a method of refining tobacco smoke to deliver sensory components of cigarette smoking while minimizing the delivery of nicotine and other toxic smoke constituents. In the first experiment, smokers rated puffs of their own brands of cigarette, a commercial low tar and nicotine cigarette, and refined smoke. The refined smoke was rated significantly stronger and more desirable than the low tar and nicotine cigarette despite a comparably low nicotine delivery; subjects' own brands were rated best, but in standardized smoking tests delivered over ten times more tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide. In the second experiment, subjects smoked five times on each of two mornings; one day they received refined smoke and the other day smoked a low tar and nicotine cigarette. The refined smoke produced significantly more satisfaction, yet delivered far less carbon monoxide and tar (assessed by mouth intake). Nicotine intake was comparable to that of the low tar and nicotine cigarette. Because refined smoke substantially reduced subjects' craving for cigarettes while reducing nicotine intake, it may prove to be a useful short-term adjunct to a smoking cessation program. Additionally, the method may be useful in research analyzing the relative contributions of pharmacologic actions of inhaled smoke and the sensory cues associated with nicotine intake as reinforcers maintaining smoking behavior.
Cigarette smoking, nicotine addiction, and relaxation.	In an attempt to explain the self-report of smokers that cigarette smoking is relaxing, shock endurance was used to measure the amount of anxiety experienced in a stressful situation by nonsmokers, smokers who were allowed to smoke cigarettes containing either low levels or moderately high levels of nicotine, and smokers who were not allowed to smoke a cigarette. Smokers who were deprived of cigarettes and those who smoked cigarettes containing low levels of nicotine behaved more anxiously than nonsmokers and than smokers who smoked cigarettes containing moderately high levels of nicotine, but the high-nicotine smokers behaved no less anxiously than nonsmokers. These results supported the hypothesis that the calming effect attributed to smoking a cigarette is due to the action of nicotine in ending withdrawal symptoms in addicted smokers rather than to a sedative property of cigarette smoking.
Characteristics and perceptions of nicotine patch users.	Although transdermal nicotine patches are frequently prescribed to aid in smoking cessation, little information exists about their use in general medical practice. In clinical studies, nicotine patches have been found to be effective when used in conjunction with nonpharmacologic interventions, such as physician counseling and follow-up visits. This study examines the characteristics and perceptions of patients regarding treatment with nicotine patches.
