Analysis of genetic heterogeneity within the type strain of satellite tobacco mosaic virus reveals variants and a strong bias for G to A substitution mutations.	Satellite tobacco mosaic virus (STMV) is a small plant virus that is dependent for its replication on the presence of a helper tobamovirus. RNase protection analysis of genomic RNA of the STMV type strain revealed that it was composed of two major genome types which differed at a single detectable site near nucleotide 753. Analyses of 42 full-length STMV clones for sequence heterogeneity resulted in the identification of 16 variants distinguishable by unique RNase protection assay patterns. Characterization of these variants confirmed the presence of a major heterogeneity site at nucleotide 751 and identified several sites of sequence microheterogeneity typical of an RNA quasispecies population. Mapping of the heterogeneity sites revealed an apparently random distribution along the length of the STMV genome, with no significant clustering or preference for noncoding regions. Infectivity experiments in tobacco showed that RNA transcripts of 13 of the 16 variant clones were infectious, indicating that most of the variants represent functional genomes coexisting in the type strain with the two major genome types. Sequence analyses revealed that most of the heterogeneity sites detected, including the major site of heterogeneity, were single base differences. Assessment of all the heterogeneity sites found in the total of 10,545 nt sequenced allowed us to estimate that the RNase protection assays detected approximately 50% of the differences present in the 16 clones studied. The nature of these differences was highly biased in that 18 of the 29 single base differences characterized (62%) were G to A substitutions.
Detection and characterization of tobacco mild green mosaic virus (TMGMV) large type isolate from trailing petunia in France.	During 2003 and 2004, unusual viral symptoms were observed on Surfinia trailing petunias in protected cultivations of Southern France. Symptoms consisted in yellow mosaic and distortion of the leaves accompanied by vein necrosis in some samples. The flowers were deformed and showed light colour break of the petals. Electron microscope observation of negatively stained leaf-dip from symptomatic leaves showed straight rod-shaped virus particles of about 300 nm in length. Sap extracts reacted in double-immunodiffusion tests by forming weak precipitin bands with antisera against Tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) and Tobacco mild green mosaic virus (TMGMV). However, symptoms developed on host range after mechanical inoculation suggested that ToMV was not involved in the disease. By using specific primer pairs designed to amplify the coat protein (CP) genes of ToMV and TMGMV in reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), expected amplicon was obtained only with TMGMV primer pair. The identity of the virus was also confirmed by using a specific TMGMV riboprobe in dot-blot hybridization assays of symptomatic leaf extracts. The nucleotide sequence of TMGMV CP of the isolate from trailing petunia, named TMGMV-Pt, was determined and compared with those available from EMBL. The percentage of nucleotide identity was 97-98% compared with those of other isolates. Further molecular and biological characterization revealed that TMGMV-Pt belonging to the large type group of TMGMV isolates. In fact, the 3' UTR region of TMGMV-Pt consisted of 360 nucleotides, comprising of a 147 base repeat, as reported only for TMGMV large type isolates. Moreover, symptoms development observed on a differentially host range, used to distinguish between large type and small type isolates, confirmed that TMGMV-Pt belonging to the large type group of isolates. Only one commercial variety of trailing petunia out of 12 tested remained symptomless after mechanical inoculation with TMGMV-Pt. This highlights the potential risk that TMGMV could represent to petunia cultivations. To our knowledge this is the first report of a natural infection by TMGMV in trailing petunia.
Development of a multiplex immunocapture RT-PCR assay for detection and differentiation of tomato and tobacco mosaic tobamoviruses.	Immunocapture (IC) RT-PCR assays were developed for detection of tomato (ToMV) and tobacco mosaic (TMV) tobamoviruses in spruce and pine extracts. When purified viruses were diluted in root or needle extracts of virus-free conifer seedlings, both IC-RT-PCR assays detected their respective target viruses at concentrations of 10-100 fg ml(-1). This compared to ELISA detection sensitivities of 1 ng ml(-1). Primers were designed from regions of high sequence diversity. Specificity of all primer pairs was confirmed by sequencing of PCR products. PCR distinguished more reliably between the two viruses than ELISA. Moreover, a multiplex IC-RT-PCR assay for the simultaneous detection and differentiation of TMV and ToMV was developed. When root extracts were seeded with both viruses simultaneously, the multiplex assay detected each virus at concentrations of 1-10 pg ml(-1). Six TMV and 18 ToMV isolates from various hosts, water samples and a soil sample were amplified and differentiated by multiplex IC-RT-PCR. No amplifications were observed against pepper mild mottle and ribgrass mosaic tobamoviruses and against six viruses belonging to other taxonomic groups.
