An example of simulation for a better understanding of PK/PD relationship of antibiotics]	The interpretation of PK/PD indices is specific to each class of antibiotics. In order to illustrate this, we developed a multidisciplinary tutorial program based on simulation of clinical cases. Three drugs were included in this software: tobramycin, vancomycin and azithromycin. From the dosage regimen proposed by the user, the model simulates a plotting of antibiotic plasma concentrations vs. time (tobramycin, vancomycin and azithromycin) and tissue concentrations (azithromycin). Peak and trough concentrations are calculated at steady-state. A commentary is provided to evaluate the efficacy of treatment and to assist the user in improving his prescription of tobramycin or vancomycin. T(> MIC) (time the concentration remains above the MIC) and AUC(24) (area under the concentration-time curve) are calculated in plasma and tissues for azithromycin. In order to create a link between theoretical pharmacokinetics and clinical practice, we propose this model as a simulation of antibiotic monitoring. We put the emphasis on interactivity and simulation, leading to applied reasoning and decision making. It illustrates (i) the influence of pharmacokinetic parameters, location of infection and bactericidal kinetics on the use of three different classes of antibiotics, (ii) the role of route of administration, dosing and intervals between administrations on therapeutic response and (iii) the influence of erratic administrations on clinical efficacy.
Topical ofloxacin in the treatment of Pseudomonas keratitis in a rabbit model.	Ofloxacin, a new quinolone antibiotic with a broad spectrum of activity, is very effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in vitro. Its effectiveness was studied in a rabbit model of tobramycin-sensitive P. aeruginosa. Treatment groups received either vehicle, tobramycin 0.3%, or ofloxacin 0.3%. Twelve hours of treatment decreased the bacterial counts from a mean of 2.2 +/- 0.7 x 10(6) colony forming units (cfu) per cornea in the vehicle group to means of 513 +/- 670 and 435 +/- 524 cfu in the tobramycin and ofloxacin groups, respectively. This decrease in bacterial counts was statistically significant (p = 0.001 for tobramycin and ofloxacin each compared with control, p = 0.86 for tobramycin compared with ofloxacin). After seven days, all antibiotic-treated corneas were sterile and the epithelial defects healed at comparable rates. Aqueous humor drug levels were higher in infected eyes without an intact epithelium (p = 0.02); in eyes with intact epithelium, concentrations of ofloxacin were higher than were those of tobramycin (p = 0.002). In this animal model, ofloxacin proved to be an effective antibiotic with no evidence of toxicity.
Antibiotic levels in bronchial tree and in serum during selective digestive decontamination.	Selective digestive decontamination has been found to prevent pulmonary infections in mechanically ventilated patients. The aims of this study were: 1) to determine whether detectable levels of antibiotics could be found in bronchial tree secretions of patients receiving SDD, and 2) to evaluate antibiotic serum levels. In 15 patients receiving mechanical ventilation and SDD for 10 days or more, tobramycin and amphotericin B levels were determined every 3 days in the following specimens: tracheal aspirates, distal bronchial secretions and blood samples. 82% of tracheal aspirates contained detectable (greater than 0.18 mg/l), tobramycin concentrations; the levels varied widely between patients and large day-to-day variations were observed. Every patient had at least 1 tracheal aspirate with tobramycin level higher than 0.5 mg/l during his course. 40% of distal specimens contained detectable tobramycin levels (10 patients). Serum determinations showed detectable concentration of tobramycin in 50% of the specimens (9 patients). Two patients with renal failure had serum tobramycin levels higher than 2 mg/l. In 13 tracheal aspirates cultures were positive and 15 species were isolated; 13 had a MIC higher than the corresponding tobramycin level in tracheal secretions. We conclude that substantial levels of antibiotics can be found frequently in respiratory tract specimens of patients receiving SDD. Therefore, the usual microbiological criteria used to assess respiratory tract infection may be unreliable in this setting and other criteria may be required. Follow-up of antibiotic serum levels is required, especially in patients with renal failure.
Absence of tobramycin pharmacokinetic and creatinine clearance variation during the menstrual cycle: implied absence of variation in glomerular filtration rate.	During the menstrual cycle, a 20% increase in creatinine clearance (CL(CR] has previously been reported between the menstrual (phase 1) and late luteal (phase 4) phases. Tobramycin pharmacokinetics and CL(CR) were studied in eight healthy women with documented, regular, ovulatory menses. During the first and fourth phases of the menstrual cycle (as determined by urinary luteinizing hormone peak and basal body temperature shift), subjects received tobramycin by intravenous bolus. Tobramycin half-life, total body clearance, and volume of distribution were not significantly different between the two study phases. No significant change in total urinary creatinine excretion or CL(CR) was seen between phases. Total 24 hour urinary recovery of tobramycin was 98-99.7%. We conclude that no significant changes in renal function, as evaluated by tobramycin pharmacokinetics and CL(CR), occur between these hormonally different phases of the menstrual cycle, and that urinary recovery of a single dose of tobramycin is nearly complete within 24 hours in premenopausal women with normal renal function.
Serum bactericidal activity against Klebsiella pneumoniae in volunteers receiving increasing doses of tobramycin with or without cefamandole.	Ten volunteers received intravenously in a randomly allocated order and on separate days the following regimens: cefamandole (15 mg/kg); tobramycin (1.5 mg/kg); tobramycin (3 mg/kg); cefamandole (15 mg/kg) + tobramycin (1.5 mg/kg); cefamandole (15 mg/kg) + tobramycin (3 mg-kg). Tobramycin serum levels were 3.7 +/- 0.7 micrograms/ml one hour after infusion of the 1.5-mg/kg and 7.8 +/- 1.6 micrograms/ml after the higher dose. Cefamandole serum levels were 26.0 +/- 5.2 micrograms/ml at the same time. Serum bactericidal activity and killing-rate studies were performed on a collection of 18 strains of Klebsiella pneumoniae. Against cefamandole-sensitive strains, all regimens were satisfactory (median serum bactericidal activity 1:16 to 1:64). Tobramycin (3 mg/kg) and both combinations were slightly more active on cefamandole-resistant strains (1:16 to 1:32) than cefamandole (1:2) and tobramycin low dose (1:8). Except for cefamandole alone, all regimens were equivalent in killing studies.
Vancomycin enhancement of experimental tobramycin nephrotoxicity.	The influence of vancomycin on tobramycin nephrotoxicity was assessed in male Fischer rats. Treatment groups included controls receiving diluent and groups receiving vancomycin alone at a dosage of 200 mg/kg (body weight) per day, tobramycin alone at a dosage of 80 mg/kg per day, and a combination of vancomycin and tobramycin at the above dosages. All regimens were injected on a twice-a-day schedule. The animals were sacrificed on days 1, 3, 10, 14, 17, and 21. When compared with controls, animals receiving vancomycin alone exhibited no detectable renal toxicity. Compared with the case with controls, tobramycin alone was toxic, as manifested by lower mean animal weights, increased blood urea nitrogen concentrations on days 14 and 17 (P less than 0.005), increased serum creatinine concentrations on days 17 and 21 (P less than 0.005), and the presence of renal cortical tubular necrosis and regeneration. When compared with tobramycin alone, the combination of vancomycin and tobramycin caused earlier and more severe toxicity. By day 10, the magnitude of weight loss, the rise in blood urea nitrogen, and the increase in serum creatinine concentration were all greater in the rats given the combination of vancomycin plus tobramycin than in the animals given tobramycin alone (P less than 0.005). In addition, there was more proximal tubular necrosis and regeneration in rats given vancomycin plus tobramycin compared with those given tobramycin alone. In this animal model, vancomycin alone caused no detectable renal injury, tobramycin alone produced minimal proximal tubular damage, and the combination of vancomycin and tobramycin resulted in a greater degree of kidney injury than observed with tobramycin alone.
Rapid bioluminescent assay for determining netilmicin and tobramycin concentrations in serum.	A rapid bioluminescent assay for determining netilmicin and tobramycin concentrations in serum based on the dose-dependent effect of these agents on the accumulation of extracellular ATP in Escherichia coli LU 14 cultures is presented. This strain of Escherichia coli is unaffected by antibiotics used in combination with aminoglycosides and it lacks significant ATP-ase activity, which is a prerequisite for extracellular ATP accumulation. ATP was quantified by the firefly bioluminescence system. The accuracy of the bioluminescent assay expressed as mean coefficient of variation over the therapeutic range was 3.2%; corresponding figures for EMIT and an agar disk diffusion assay were 4.2% and 4.8% respectively. All methods used correlated well (r = 0.935-0.986) when they were evaluated on clinical serum specimens. The bioluminescent assay requires 25 microliters serum and results are available within 75 min.
Gas-liquid chromatographic method for the assay of aminoglycoside antibiotics in serum.	A gas-liquid chromatographic (GLC) method is presented for the rapid analysis of gentamicin, tobramycin, netilmicin, and amikacin from human serum. This procedure may have application to all aminoglycoside drugs. The three isomers of gentamicin are resolved as two bands, while tobramycin, netilmicin, and amikacin appear in this system as single bands. Normal serum constituents do not interfere with chromatograms. Thus far, no assay interference has been found in cases where other drugs and antibiotics were administered concurrently with aminoglycoside therapy. Dose-response data demonstrating linear recovery are included for all four aminoglycosides as well as a comparison of the GLC method with the microbiological method for the assay of gentamicin and amikacin. Quantitation is based upon the relative response of the antibiotics to a fixed amount of the internal standards, either kanamycin A or paromomycin B. These standards are clearly resolved as symmetrical peaks from the antibiotics of assay interest. Isothermal chromatographic analysis time is less than 8 min, while total assay time per single serum specimen is approximately 50 min. Preparation of serum includes: precipitation, evaporative drying of the supernatant, a two-stage derivatization (N-trimethylsilylimidazole, N-heptafluorobutyrylimidazole), and a single hexane extraction with a water wash. The methodology described may be applied to the analysis of other compounds (e.g., saccharides, amino-saccharides, amino acids, etc.) which do not rapidly partition into an organic phase.
Double-antibody fluorescence immunoassay of tobramycin.	This heterogeneous assay for tobramycin involves fluorescein-labeled tobramycin, which competes with native unlabeled tobramycin for anti-tobramycin binding sites. Bound and free labeled antigen are separated by precipitation with a second antibody. Fluorescence intensity of the resuspended precipitate is inversely proportional to native tobramycin concentration. Background interference was consistently about 10% of the total fluorescence precipitated. Assay sensitivity was sufficient to detect nanogram quantities of tobramycin per assay tube. Correlation coefficients (r) were 0.96 and 0.98 for comparisons of this assay with a microbiological assay and a radioimmunoassay, respectively. Mean analytical recovery was 101% and the CV was less than 10% throughout the therapeutic range.
Rapid, reproducible enzyme immunoassay for tobramycin.	An enzyme immunoassay for tobramycin utilizing glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase was compared with the radioimmunoassay. The enzyme immunoassay for tobramycin was accurate, specific, and easily performed. It offers an alternative method for assaying aminoglycosides and could be used in institutions that use the enzyme immunoassay to assay other drugs.
A solid-phase fluoroimmunoassay of tobramycin.	A solid-phase fluoroimmunoassay has been developed for the determination of tobramycin in serum. The principle of this method is based on direct competition of a fluorescein-labeled and unlabeled hapten for a fixed amount of specific antibody immobilized on a dipstick sampler. The bound and free labeled hapten are separated simply by removing the sampler from the reaction mixture. The fluorescence signal from the bound fluorescein-labeled hapten is measured with a FIAX fluorometer. The fluorescein-labeled tobramycin, which is easily prepared, has excellent shelf life. The assay is fast and simple, involves only one pipetting step, and avoids the use of radiochemicals. Within-assay coefficients of variation are less than 10%. The assay correlates well with radioimmunoassay (r = 0.97) and radioenzymatic assay (r = 0.96).
Heparin interferes with the radioenzymatic and homogeneous enzyme immunoassays for aminoglycosides.	Heparin interferes with measurement of aminoglycosides in serum by biological, radioenzymatic, and homogeneous enzyme immunoassay techniques, but not with radioimmunoassay. At concentrations greater than or equal to 10(5) and greater than or equal to 3 X 10(6) USP units/L, respectively, it interferes with the radioenzymatic assay by inhibiting the gentamicin 3-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.60) and kanamycin 6'-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.55) enzymes used in the assay. It interferes with the homogeneous enzyme immunoassays for gentamicin and tobramycin (at concentrations greater than or equal to 10(5) and greater than or equal to 10(4) USP units/L, respectively), but not with the commercially available homogeneous enzyme immunoassays for other drugs. Heparin interference with the homogeneous enzyme immunoassay for aminoglycosides requires both the heparin polyanion and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.49) bound to a cationic aminoglycoside. This interference can be reproduced with dextran sulfate (but not dextran), and does not occur with free enzyme (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) alone. We describe how heparin interferes with these two assays and demonstrate interference at heparin concentrations that may be present in intravenous infusions or in seriously underfilled blood-collection tubes.
Empiric treatment of fever in acute leukaemia with tobramycin-cephalothin, and the escape clause provision of corticosteroids.	29 episodes of suspected septicaemia in patients with acute leukemia were treated empirically with tobramycin 180--240 mg/day intravenously together with cephalothin 12 g/day. Patients without documented infection who did not respond to antibiotics and whose fever developed after a course of cytotoxic drugs, were given the provision of high dose corticosteroid therapy. Infection was documented microbiologically or clinically in 13/29 episodes. Septicaemia was proven in 7, and 6 had pneumonia. Neutropenia was present in 18/29 episodes. A satisfactory response to initial therapy was achieved in 7/13 with documented infection and in 9/16 without proven infection. The overall good response was 55%, 5/7 cases with septicaemia, but only 2/6 with pneumonia responded well. The 2 septicaemia patients who did not respond had Pseudomonas aeruginosa sepsis. In 16 episodes without documented infection 7 did not respond to initial therapy. To 4 of them, who were subject to recent cytotoxic drug administration, high dose corticosteroid therapy was given, and 3 of them responded well. Of the remaining 3 non-responders, one became afebrile after cytostatic and one after prednisolone treatment. Serum assays of tobramycin were done on the 1st and 5th day of therapy and no difference in concentration was observed on these 2 occasions. Five patients developed renal failure, but this was attributed to antibiotic therapy only in 1, who initially had an elevated serum creatinine. It is concluded, that in hospitals where pseudomonas is not a dominating pathogen, tobramycin--cephalothin may be a good combination to start empiric therapy with. In patients without proven infection, who have recently been subjected to cytotoxic therapy, and who do not respond to the initial course of antibiotics, a high dose of corticosteroids may be tried, provided the patient is monitored for the hazard of bacterial infection.
Stability of dilute solutions of gentamicin and tobramycin.	Dilution of sera containing gentamicin or tobramycin in glass containers results in substantial adsorption of the antibiotic to the surface of the container, which can be prevented if acidic or basic solutions are used to dilute such sera. We describe protocols for radioimmunoassays of gentamicin and tobramycin that include solutions and containers that obviate this problem.
Tobramycin: maternal-fetal pharmacology.	To investigate the maternal-fetal transfer of tobramycin (TBM) and its distribution in the fetus, a single dose of 2 mg/kg was administered intramuscularly to 35 pregnant patients (13 first trimester, 22 second trimester) 0.5 to 34 h before hysterectomy. TBM concentration was assayed microbiologically in maternal serum, fetal tissues (placenta, brain, lung, liver, and kidney), and fluids (amniotic, cerebrospinal fluid [CSF], urine, and serum). Mean maternal serum half-life (1.54 h) and mean peak serum concentration of TBM were within ranges reported for nonpregnant adults. In fetal serum, half-life was 5.2 h, and TBM levels did not exceed 0.58 mug/ml. For intervals up to 34 h, the mean TBM concentration in placental tissues was 1.4 mug/g. Concentration differences related to fetal maturation were found for fetal CSF, amniotic fluid, and fetal kidney. No antimicrobial activity was found in the fetal CSF of >16 weeks' gestation. TBM was present predominantly in the second trimester amniotic fluid specimens. Fetal kidney concentrations reached 7.2 mug/g at 34 h after maternal drug administration. Higher TBM concentrations were related to advanced maturation of the fetal kidney. Second trimester fetal urine concentrations for TBM ranged from 0.1 to 3.4 mug/ml, and the fetal urinary half-life was 3.7 h. Knowledge of fetal pharmacology is essential for weighing the fetal benefits or risks of antimicrobial therapy for the infected gravid patient.
