Pharmacodynamics of intermittent- and continuous-infusion cefepime alone and in combination with once-daily tobramycin against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an in vitro infection model.	Cefepime, a fourth-generation cephalosporin, is currently one of the primary agents used in combination with an aminoglycoside when treating Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections. The bactericidal activity of cefepime administered as intermittent doses (IT) or continuous infusion (CI) both alone and in combination with once-daily tobramycin (ODT) against two clinical strains of P. aeruginosa was compared using an in vitro infection model. Cefepime concentrations simulated human pharmacokinetics after a 1-gram Q12 regimen, or a 1-gram loading dose followed by a 2-gram Q24 CI regimen; the ODT regimen mimicked peak concentrations of >/=10 x MIC. All regimen simulations were run in duplicate over 48 h and a growth control (no antimicrobials added) was run concurrently. Strains tested, PSA5 and PSA10, had MICs of 2 and 8 microg/ml to cefepime, respectively; both MICs to tobramycin were 1.0 microg/ml. CI regimens resulted in concentrations approximately 6x and 2x the MIC for PSA5 and PSA10, respectively. The change in log10 colony-forming units (CFU) per milliliter over time for both P. aeruginosa isolates was compared to initial inocula for all treatment regimens. Initial bolus doses of both IT and CI regimens resulted in a similar decrease in the log10 CFU/ml of both organisms over the first 12 h of the study. After subsequent doses, however, both IT regimens showed greatly diminished bactericidal activity, while both CI regimens were persistently bactericidal without the observation of significant regrowth. As a result, a statistical difference in log10 CFU/ml between both IT and CI regimens with and without ODT was realized at 24, 36 and 48 h for each isolate. Unlike IT dosing, CI cefepime alone or in combination with ODT optimizes bactericidal activity by maximizing the percent of the dosing interval that concentrations remained above the MIC resulting in undiminished bacterial inhibition when compared to IT regimens. These data further suggest that CI is the most efficient method of administration of beta-lactam antibiotics.
Comparison of Sawchuk-Zaske and Bayesian forecasting for aminoglycosides in seriously ill patients.	1. Individual pharmacokinetic parameters and predicted steady-state serum concentrations of aminoglycosides were calculated by Sawchuck-Zaske (SZ) and Bayesian methods. 2. Predicted concentrations were compared with observed steady-state concentrations for 36 seriously ill patients with systemic infections. Four aminoglycoside concentrations were used for the SZ method. Differing numbers of serum aminoglycoside samples were used in the Bayesian parameter estimation: one sample Bayesian used one post-infusion concentration, two sample Bayesian used a trough plus one post-infusion concentrations and four sample Bayesian used a trough plus three post-infusion concentrations. 3. 79% of the SZ predictions were with +/- 2 mg l-1 of the observed peak concentrations, and 72% of the two sample Bayesian predictions were within the same range. 82% of SZ and the two sample Bayesian predictions were within +/- 1 mg l-1 of the observed trough concentrations. 4. A confidence interval comparison of estimated pharmacokinetic parameters and precision for the predicted concentrations showed no important differences between the SZ and the two sample Bayesian. The four sample Bayesian was the most precise method. 5. We conclude that the Bayesian forecasting method utilizing a trough plus one post-infusion concentrations is as useful as the SZ method which requires three to four serum concentrations in individualizing aminoglycoside therapy for seriously ill patients.
Altered aminoglycoside pharmacokinetics in critically ill patients with sepsis.	The pharmacokinetic disposition of aminoglycosides in critically ill patients with sepsis was studied. In an open-label study of the disposition of gentamicin and tobramycin, individualized pharmacokinetic values of 100 critically ill patients in the surgical intensive-care unit were compared with those of a concurrently monitored group of 100 surgery patients who were not critically ill. The a priori computer-predicted dosage requirements of the critically ill patients were also compared with the dosages derived from their individualized pharmacokinetic values, and intrapatient variation in the critically ill patients was studied. Serum concentration-time data were analyzed using a one-compartment model and the DataMed Clinical Support Services system to provide individualized dosage requirements. Initial dosing guidelines were also generated for the critically ill patients using the a priori model of the DataMed Clinical Support Services program and patient demographic information. The critically ill patients were significantly older, had higher serum creatinine concentrations (SCr), and had lower elimination rate constants (k) and total body clearances (CL) than the surgery patients who were not critically ill. The volume of distribution (V) was not significantly different. The a priori computer predictions for the critically ill patients were significantly lower than the individualized values for V, CL, dose, and amount of drug per 24 hours. The dosing regimen from the a priori model was the same as the individualized regimen in only 2/100 patients. In the 76 critically ill patients who had a second pharmacokinetic analysis performed, there was a significant decrease in k and CL from the first analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Variability of tobramycin pharmacokinetics in cystic fibrosis.	This study determined the extent and impact of tobramycin pharmacokinetic variability in cystic fibrosis patients. Twenty patients were hospitalized twice and the tobramycin half-life, volume of distribution and clearance were determined during Weeks 1 and 2 of both admissions. A difference (P less than 0.05) existed between Weeks 1 and 2 of each admission, but not between admissions, for the clearance and half-life. No difference existed between weeks or admissions for the volume of distribution. No significant correlations existed between weeks within an admission for the half-life and clearance. There was a significant correlation for the volume of distribution between Weeks 1 and 2 of the second admission but not for the first admission. The percents of coefficient of variation and ranges were large. With dosing regimens derived from previously determined factors, "within admission" predicted peaks and troughs would result in 60 and 35% of patients outside the therapeutic range for Admissions 1 and 2, respectively. "Between admission" predictions would result in 65 and 75% of patients outside the therapeutic range. We conclude that considerable variability exists and recommend weekly determinations of serum concentrations and dosing adjustments.
Decreased bactericidal activity during the period of the postantibiotic effect.	Standard and clinical strains of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae were subjected to continuous exposure to beta-lactams and aminoglycosides during the postantibiotic effect phase induced by rifampicin or erythromycin (for S. aureus). A significant inhibition of bactericidal activity by these agents during the PAE period was observed. The degree of inhibition was dependent both on the class of antimicrobial agent (beta-lactams > aminoglycosides) and the microorganism (Gram-negative bacilli > S. aureus).
Gentamicin penetration into normal rabbit nucleus pulposus.	Radioactively labeled gentamicin was administered to 24 rabbits to assess the concentration of antibiotic in the nucleus pulposus.
