Dietary sesame seeds elevate alpha- and gamma-tocotrienol concentrations in skin and adipose tissue of rats fed the tocotrienol-rich fraction extracted from palm oil.	The metabolism of tocotrienol remains unclear. We studied the distribution of tocotrienol in rats fed the tocotrienol-rich fraction extracted from palm oil. We have previously shown that dietary sesame seeds markedly elevate the tocopherol concentration in rats. In this study, we also examined the effect of dietary sesame seeds on the tocotrienol concentration. In experiment 1, rats (4-wk-old) were fed the diet with alpha-tocopherol alone or with alpha- and gamma-tocotrienols. In experiment 2, the effect of dietary sesame seeds on tocopherol and tocotrienol concentrations in rats fed the diet with tocopherol and tocotrienol was studied. The rats were fed the experimental diet for 8 wk in both experiments. alpha- and gamma-Tocotrienols accumulated in the adipose tissue and skin, but not in plasma or other tissues, of the rats fed tocotrienols. Dietary sesame seeds elevated (P < 0.05) tocotrienol concentrations in the adipose tissue and skin, but did not affect their concentrations in other tissues or in plasma. The gamma-tocopherol concentration in all tissues and plasma of rats fed gamma-tocopherol was extremely low but was elevated (P < 0.05) in many tissues by feeding sesame seeds. These data suggest that the transport and tissue uptake of vitamin E isoforms are different. Dietary sesame seeds elevate the concentrations of both tocopherols and tocotrienols.
Effects of new combinative antioxidant FeAOX-6 and alpha-tocotrienol on macrophage atherogenesis-related functions.	Pivotal role in atherogenesis is played by macrophages, which are early site for lipid accumulation and mediate the inflammatory and immune response in the intima. Epidemiological evidence indicates that natural antioxidants reduce the risk of heart disease, but, so far, supplementation studies have failed to confirm any protective effects of these compounds against cardiovascular disease. This study evaluated the effects of the natural antioxidant alpha-tocotrienol and of the newly designed compound, FeAOX-6, which combines antioxidant structural features of both tocopherols and carotenoids into a single molecule, on macrophage functions involved in foam cell formation. FeAOX-6 or alpha-tocotrienol induce a strong dose-dependent reduction of cholesterol and reduce cholesterol accumulation in human macrophages. The extent of the reduction found with alpha-tocotrienol was greater than that induced by FeAOX-6 and did not correlate with their respective antioxidant capacities. Treatment of HMDM with alpha-tocotrienol or FeAOX-6 enhanced also tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion. These results are consistent with a reduction in scavenger receptor activity, but we found that antioxidant treatment did not affect cholesterol uptake from modified LDL. The effects on release on pro-inflammatory prostanoid precursors, PGE(2) and cytokine suggest a variety of metabolic responses that are both dependent on antioxidant compounds and macrophages activation status.
Natural vitamin E α-tocotrienol protects against ischemic stroke by induction of multidrug resistance-associated protein 1.	α-Tocotrienol (TCT) represents the most potent neuroprotective form of natural vitamin E that is Generally Recognized As Safe certified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This work addresses a novel molecular mechanism by which α-TCT may be protective against stroke in vivo. Elevation of intracellular oxidized glutathione (GSSG) triggers neural cell death. Multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1), a key mediator of intracellular oxidized glutathione efflux from neural cells, may therefore possess neuroprotective functions.
δ- and γ-tocotrienols induce classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes in human T lymphoblastic leukemic cells.	Tocotrienols are isomers of the vitamin E family, which have been reported to exert cytotoxic effects in various cancer cells. Although there have been some reports on the effects of tocotrienols in leukemic cells, ultrastructural evidence of tocotrienol-induced apoptotic cell death in leukemic cells is lacking. The present study investigated the effects of three isomers of tocotrienols (alpha, delta, and gamma) on a human T lymphoblastic leukemic cell line (CEM-SS). Cell viability assays showed that all three isomers had cytotoxic effects (p < 0.05) on CEM-SS cells with delta-tocotrienol being the most potent. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the cytotoxic effects by delta- and gamma-tocotrienols were through the induction of an apoptotic pathway as demonstrated by the classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes characterized by peripheral nuclear chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. These findings were confirmed biochemically by the demonstration of phosphatidylserine externalization via flow cytometry analysis. This is the first study showing classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes induced by delta- and gamma-tocotrienols in human T lymphoblastic leukemic cells.
Vitamin E, glutathione S-transferase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activities in cultured hepatocytes of rats treated with carcinogens.	1. The effects of alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol on glutathione S-transferase (GST) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) activities in cultured hepatocytes prepared from rats treated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) were investigated. 2. Both the alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol treated hepatocytes showed significantly higher (P < 0.05) GST activities than untreated hepatocytes prepared from the carcinogen treated rats in the first 3 days of culture. Treatment with alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol generally resulted in a tendency to increase the GST activities above that in the untreated hepatocytes. 3. Treatment with high doses (125-250 microM) of alpha-tocopherol and low doses (12.5-25 microM) of gamma-tocotrienol generally resulted in a significant reduction in gamma-GT activities at 1-3 days. gamma-GT activities are reduced as the dose of alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol are increased.
