Incidence and ossification of sesamoid bones in the hands and feet: a radiographic study in an Arab population.	The incidence and ossification of sesamoid bones in the hands and feet were studied in 922 radiographs (400 hands and 522 feet) in an Arab population from Bahrain, 5-83 years of age and consisting of 549 adults (393 men and 156 women) and 373 children (286 boys and 97 girls). All radiographs of the hand and foot in the adult population showed two sesamoid bones in the thumb metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint and in the hallucal metatarsophalangeal (MTP) joint, respectively. Only 2.3% and 1.5% of hands showed sesamoids at the MCP joints of the middle and ring fingers respectively compared to a reported incidence of 7.1% for each digit in Caucasians. The incidence of sesamoids in the MTP joints of third and fourth toes (0.6% each) and inferior to the hallucal interphalangeal joint (3.1%) is probably the lowest reported so far in the literature. In the hands, ossification commenced first in the thumb sesamoids, at the age of 10 years in females and 11 years in males and was completed by the age of 13 and 14 years, respectively. In the feet, ossification began first in the hallucal sesamoids at the age of 8 years in females and 9 years in males and was completed by the age of 10 years in both sexes. The incidence and ossification of sesamoids in the hands and feet in the Arab population from Bahrain seem to differ considerably from reports in other populations. The clinical significance of our findings is discussed.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the peripheral joints in psoriatic arthritis]	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been widely used for the evaluation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), with only a minority of studies considering other types of arthritis. This review is concerned with an evaluation of the MRI appearance of peripheral joints in psoriatic arthritis (PsA).
Interphalangeal joint involvement of the big toe in gout: a rare presentation.	Atypical presentation of gout can cause diagnostic dilemmas. We report a case of gout that presented with an expansile lytic lesion involving the interphalangeal joint of the hallux, lack of a history of gout, and an associated solitary lung nodule. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an expansile destructive bony lesion with soft-tissue involvement suggestive of a possible bony metastasis. A needle biopsy was performed, and histopathologic features were diagnostic of chronic tophaceous gout.
MRI of hand and foot joints of patients with anticitrullinated peptide antibody positive arthralgia without clinical arthritis.	Anticitrullinated peptide antibodies (ACPA) and acute phase reactants may be increased before arthritis becomes clinically detectable, suggesting that the processes underlying rheumatoid arthritis (RA) start preclinically. Whether local inflammation occurs in the preclinical phase is unknown. Therefore, we studied the small joints of ACPA positive arthralgia patients for local subclinical inflammation.
Psoriatic arthritis mutilans (PAM) in the Nordic countries: demographics and disease status. The Nordic PAM study.	To determine the prevalence and clinical characteristics of psoriatic arthritis mutilans (PAM) in the Nordic countries.
The intermetatarsophalangeal bursa--its significance in Morton's metatarsalgia.	The intermetatarsophalangeal bursa was investigated by dissection, radiography and injection. In the web spaces between the second and third and the third and fourth digits the bursa lies superior to the transverse metatarsal ligament but projects distally to it, closely applied to the neurovascular bundle. Tissue from the web spaces of patients with classical Morton's metatarsalgia often shows lymphocytic infiltration, with additional fibrinoid necrosis of the bursal wall. It is suggested that inflammatory changes in this bursa could account for the pathological and histological findings in this condition. The bursa in the most lateral web space does not extend beyond the ligament and is not in contact with the neurovascular bundle, which may explain the rarity of symptoms in this space.
Pigmented villonodular tenosynovitis: a case report.	A case of pigmented villonodular tenosynovitis is described. The characteristics and clinical course are discussed and compared as to natural history, histopathology, pathophysiology, etiology, differential diagnosis, and treatment. The etiological factors of this entity are generally uncertain; however, this case may well be associated with a specific incident of trauma, eg., a puncture wound sustained from stepping on a nail.
Role of medical capsule and transverse metatarsal ligament in hallux valgus deformity.	The role of the medial capsule and transverse metatarsal ligament in hallux valgus deformity including stability of the first metatarsophalangeal and adjacent joints was investigated in vitro. The three-dimensional positions of the proximal phalanx, first metatarsal, and second metatarsal before and after sectioning the medial capsule and metatarsal ligament were measured using a magnetic tracking system. Valgus deformity of the hallux increased with medial capsule sectioning an average of 22.3 degrees +/- 6 degrees. Valgus deformity of the hallux increased with medial capsule and metatarsal ligament sectioning an average of 27.4 degrees +/- 9.1 degrees. Valgus deformity of the hallux did not change significantly after sectioning the metatarsal ligament only. No significant changes were found in varus and eversion of the first metatarsal, in valgus of the second metatarsal, in the distance between first and second metatarsal heads after sectioning the medial capsule, or in the metatarsal ligament. This study shows the importance of the medial capsule in hallux valgus deformity. The transverse ligament did not contribute substantially to cause the deformity.
