Determination of biomechanical characteristics of restrictive adhesions and of functional impairment after flexor tendon surgery: a methodological study of rabbits.	Formation of restrictive adhesions is one of the main obstacles in rehabilitation following hand surgery. Most experimental work, however, involves only a macroscopic and/or histologic evaluation of the amount of adhesions, and their functional characteristics are poorly described. The aim of this study was to develop an experimental technique for characterization of the biomechanical properties of the finger-tendon unit. An instrument was developed for continuous and simultaneous recording of tensile load, tendon excursion and angular rotation in the distal interphalangeal joint of rabbit digits. Utilizing this instrument, it was revealed that the first 50 degrees of flexion required virtually no tensile load either in unoperated digits or immediately after tenorrhaphy. Thereafter, the load required to obtain further flexion was progressively increased. The strength of adhesions, determined 2 weeks after tenorrhaphy, was best expressed as the maximum tensile load recorded before 50 degrees of flexion was reached. This measurement could also be used to register the strength of the tendon repair and to detect partial tendon rupture during the measurement. The technique allows both adequate measurements of the strength of the adhesions and of the tendon gliding ability after flexor tendon surgery.
The Akin procedure: an analysis of results.	This paper reports the initial and long-term results of 45 Akin procedures done at the Hospital for Joint Diseases/Orthopaedic Institute from 1966 to 1985. Indications for 36 of the 45 operated feet were for an essentially asymptomatic great toe valgus deformity which caused symptoms to develop in the second toe and in 9 of 45 feet for residual hallux valgus after previous hallux valgus surgery. Excellent and good results were reported in 89% of the patients. The most common technical problem reported in 22% of the patients was plantar angulation at the osteotomy site. The only technical problem that was associated with long-term complications was bone apposition of less than 50% which may have lead to a nonunion in one case and recurrence of deformity in another. Shortening of the hallux was observed in all cases secondary to the closing wedge osteotomy. Shortening can be limited if a minimum of bone is removed from the proximal phalanx. A mathematical analysis is presented in this paper which can be used to provide guidelines to osteotomy size so that a minimum of bone necessary for correction can be removed. The Akin procedure should be performed within certain guidelines. Rarely is an Akin procedure alone indicated for the correction of a hallux valgus deformity. In most patients the proximal phalangeal osteotomy needs to be performed in combination with some other procedure to correct all components of the hallux valgus deformity. Furthermore the procedure can be used with success in those patients who present with an essentially asymptomatic great toe valgus deformity at the metatarsophalangeal joint or the interphalangeal joint which causes symptoms and/or deformity to develop in the second toe.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A Chevron-Akin double osteotomy for correction of hallux valgus.	Chevron osteotomy of the distal metatarsal combined with Akin osteotomy of the proximal phalanx is described for treatment of painful hallux valgus. Sixteen patients (24 feet) who underwent the Chevron-Akin osteotomy were retrospectively reviewed by questionnaire, physical examination, and comparison of preoperative and postoperative standing X-rays. After a mean follow-up of 29 months, there was 95% satisfaction with regard to pain relief and appearance of the foot. Good postoperative range of motion of the great toe was recorded subjectively and objectively. Mean improvement of the first intermetatarsal angle was 4.1 degrees (P = 0.05). The average preoperative hallux valgus angle was 27 degrees (range 13-40 degrees). Mean improvement with the double osteotomy was 14.3 degrees (P = 0.05). There was no significant shortening of the first ray with the double osteotomy. Degenerative changes of the first metatarsophalangeal joint were seen in two feet with intra-articular extension of the Akin osteotomy. One malunion occurred with shifting of the Chevron osteotomy after pin removal. The Chevron-Akin osteotomy compares favorably with the isolated distal Chevron osteotomy. In this series there was no compromise of joint motion, and a superior correction of the hallux valgus deformity was obtained.
