Contributions of muscle forces and toe-off kinematics to peak knee flexion during the swing phase of normal gait: an induced position analysis.	A three-dimensional dynamic simulation of walking was used together with induced position analysis to determine how kinematic conditions at toe-off and muscle forces following toe-off affect peak knee flexion during the swing phase of normal gait. The flexion velocity of the swing-limb knee at toe-off contributed 30 degrees to the peak knee flexion angle; this was larger than any contribution from an individual muscle or joint moment. Swing-limb muscles individually made large contributions to knee angle (i.e., as large as 22 degrees), but their actions tended to balance one another, so that the combined contribution from all swing-limb muscles was small (i.e., less than 3 degrees of flexion). The uniarticular muscles of the swing limb made contributions to knee flexion that were an order of magnitude larger than the biarticular muscles of the swing limb. The results of the induced position analysis make clear the importance of knee flexion velocity at toe-off relative to the effects of muscle forces exerted after toe-off in generating peak knee flexion angle. In addition to improving our understanding of normal gait, this study provides a basis for analyzing stiff-knee gait, a movement abnormality in which knee flexion in swing is diminished.
Analysis of human locomotion by recording sole-floor reaction forces from anatomically discrete points.	Sole-floor reaction forces were recorded from five anatomically discrete points to analyze characteristics of human locomotion. Strain gauge of 14 mm diameter were firmly attached to the sole of bare-foot for recording force changes from the following five points: (1) medial process of calcaneus, (2) head of 1st metatarsal, (3) head of 3rd metatarsal, (4) head of 5th metatarsal and (5) great toe. Fifteen healthy adults were asked to walk at 2, 4, 6 and 8 km/h and to run at 8 km/h on the treadmill. Sole-floor reaction forces from 1st to 5th metatarsals show reciprocal changes during stance phase, while force from 1st metatarsal is strong 5th metatarsal shows weak reaction and vice versa. This phenomenon may be an expression of locomotor program to maintain vertical stability of the body during stance phase. There was a linear relation between walking speeds and sum of force from the five points, although sum of forces from three metatarsals did not change significantly during the walking speeds, indicating mainly calcaneus and great toe contribute to increasing walking speed. During running the sum of force from the three metatarsals increased sharply, joining the other two points to increase thrust.
Segmental blood pressure after total hip replacement.	Twenty-nine patients due to have a total hip replacement had their systemic systolic and segmental blood pressures measured prior to operation and 1 and 6 weeks postoperatively. No patients had signs of ischemia. The segmental blood pressure was measured at the ankle and at the toes. A significant drop was found in all pressures 1 week postoperatively. The decrease followed the systemic pressure and was restored to normal after 6 weeks. In a group of six patients with preoperatively decreased ankle pressure, a significant transient further decrease in the ankle-toe gradient pressure was found on the operated side. None of the patients had symptoms from the lowered pressure. We conclude that in patients without signs of ischemia, the postoperative segmental pressure decrease is reversible and therefore not dangerous.
The role of footwear-independent variations in rearfoot movement on impact attenuation in heel-toe running.	Impact forces and rearfoot eversion have been linked to overuse injuries in running. Modeling approaches suggest that both factors interact in that reduced foot eversion relates to increased impact maxima and vice versa. The aim of this study was to alter rearfoot eversion by applying three different combinations of ankle taping and bracing. Ten subjects were tested while running at 4 m/s on an instrumented treadmill. Sagittal plane kinematics, rearfoot eversion, tibial acceleration, pressure under the heel, and vertical ground reaction force (GRF) were collected simultaneously over 12 to 14 steps. All interventions reduced the maximum eversion significantly compared with unrestricted running. The largest effect was shown for combined bracing and taping, reducing rearfoot movement by 6.1 degrees while impact force varied only marginally. Overall, relationships between parameters contradict predictions by existing models of foot-ground interaction. Changes in muscular activation remain as a candidate in the regulation of impact mechanics in running.
Adaptation of rat extensor digitorum longus to overload and increased activity.	Rat extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles were overloaded by removal of the synergist tibialis anterior (TA). The weight of the overloaded muscle was increased 15 days after the initial operation and remained higher throughout the period studied (153 days). The times to peak twitch tension and half relaxation remained unaltered, but the twitch and tetanic tensions developed by the overloaded EDL muscles increased. The overloaded EDL muscles became significantly more fatigue resistant. In a separate group of animals the overloaded EDL muscle was also chronically stimulated at 10 Hz. The additional stimulation altered the response of the EDL to overload in that the time to peak twitch tension of the muscle was slightly prolonged. There was no increase in twitch or tetanic tension in spite of the increase in muscle weight, but the electrical stimulation led to a further increase in fatigue resistance above that seen in overloaded muscles. The histochemical and immunocytochemical examination of the muscle revealed that there was a moderate increase in succinate dehydrogenase activity in the muscles overloaded only, but a considerable increase in those overloaded muscles that were also stimulated. There was no obvious change in the number of muscle fibres that reacted with an antibody to slow myosin in either overloaded only or overloaded and stimulated EDL muscles. Thus the addition of continuous activity to overload induced a slowing of contraction and prevented the increase of force usually induced by overload.
Finger and toe temperatures on exposure to cold water and cold air.	Subjects with a weak cold-induced vasodilatation response (CIVD) to experimental cold-water immersion of the fingers in a laboratory setting have been shown to have a higher risk for local cold injuries when exposed to cold in real life. Most of the cold injuries in real life, however, occur in the foot in cold air rather than in the hand in cold water. Therefore, an experiment was conducted to investigate the within-subject relation between CIVD in the fingers and toes exposed to cold water and cold air.
A comparison in the muscle activity of the abductor hallucis and the medial longitudinal arch angle during toe curl and short foot exercises.	To compare the muscle activity of the abductor hallucis (AbdH) and the medial longitudinal arch (MLA) angle during toe curl (TC) and short foot (SF) exercises while sitting or in one-leg standing position.
Minimum toe clearance adaptations to floor surface irregularity and gait speed.	Toe speed during gait generally nears its maximum while its height reaches a local minima approximately halfway through swing phase. Trips are thought to frequently occur at these local minima (minimum toe clearance or MTC events) and trip risk has been quantified using the minimum distance between the toe and ground here (MTC). This study investigated MTC on floor surfaces with and without multiple small obstacles. After shoes and floor surfaces were digitized, 14 unimpaired subjects (half women) each traversed a 4.88 m walkway 4 times at slow, preferred, and fast speeds across surfaces with no obstacles, visible obstacles, and hidden obstacles. Both surfaces with obstacles had the same random obstacle configuration. Shoe and body segment motions were tracked using passive markers and MTC and joint kinematics calculated. All MTC and kinematic variables tested significantly increased with faster instructed gait speed except the likelihood of MTC event occurrence (local minima in minimum toe clearance trajectory when foot is in upper quartile of speed). MTC events were less frequent for swing phases on surfaces with obstacles (80% vs. 98% for no obstacles). MTC values, when present, were doubled by the presence of visible obstacles (22.2 ± 7.3mm vs. 11.1 ± 5.7 mm) and further increased to 26.8 ± 7.1mm when these obstacles were hidden from view (all comparisons p ≤ 0.0003). These substantial floor surface-related changes in MTC event occurrences and values resulted from alterations in toe- and heel-clearance trajectories caused by subtle but significant changes in joint kinematics that did not exceed 10% each joint's swing phase range of motion.
Experimental evidence supporting isometric functioning of the extrinsic toe flexors during gait.	The extrinsic toe flexors, flexor hallucis longus and flexor digitorum longus, play an important role in stabilizing the longitudinal arch and supporting high forefoot loads during the stance phase of gait. It was hypothesized that these muscles function isometrically during stance, a strategy thought to provide efficient energy transfer across adjoining body segments, but one for which there is little direct experimental evidence in vivo or in situ.
Digital thermography of the fingers and toes in Raynaud's phenomenon.	The aim of this study was to determine whether skin temperature measurement by digital thermography on hands and feet is useful for diagnosis of Raynaud's phenomenon (RP). Fifty-seven patients with RP (primary RP, n = 33; secondary RP, n = 24) and 146 healthy volunteers were recruited. After acclimation to room temperature for 30 min, thermal imaging of palmar aspect of hands and dorsal aspect of feet were taken. Temperature differences between palm (center) and the coolest finger and temperature differences between foot dorsum (center) and first toe significantly differed between patients and controls. The area under curve analysis showed that temperature difference of the coolest finger (cutoff value: 2.2℃) differentiated RP patients from controls (sensitivity/specificity: 67/60%, respectively). Temperature differences of first toe (cutoff value: 3.11℃) also discriminated RP patients (sensitivity/specificity: about 73/66%, respectively). A combination of thermographic assessment of the coolest finger and first toe was highly effective in men (sensitivity/specificity : about 88/60%, respectively) while thermographic assessment of first toe was solely sufficient for women (sensitivity/specificity: about 74/68%, respectively). Thermographic assessment of the coolest finger and first toe is useful for diagnosing RP. In women, thermography of first toe is highly recommended. 
Repair of severed peripheral nerves: comparison of the "de Medinaceli" and standard microsuture methods.	The return of function following transection of the rat sciatic nerve has been assessed after repair by either standard microsurgical techniques (i.e., the use of microsutures to coapt the severed ends) or the new repair technique introduced by de Medinaceli and coworkers. The regeneration after transection was compared with that following sciatic nerve crush, i.e., a lesion in which the return of function is near optimal. Return of function was monitored serially using walking track analysis (i.e., the sciatic functional index, which indicates overall functional performance), the ability to spread the toes (which indicates intrinsic function in the foot), and the determination of muscle twitch tension of the middle digit. Function in the nerve crush group returned to within the normal range by 53 days, but function in the transection and repair groups did not return to normal before the rats were perfused at 85 postoperative days. However, the function regained when nerves were repaired with the de Medinaceli technique was significantly superior to that regained after repair with microsutures. Histological examination of the repair site (at 85 days) revealed that the regenerated nerve fibers in the de Medinaceli group crossed the site of anastomosis in a relatively orderly fashion, whereas they were more randomly arranged when microsutures were used. However, there was no statistical difference between the two groups in the number of regenerated fibers present in the distal stump. The increase in function in the de Medinaceli group may therefore arise primarily from an increase in the proportion of regenerating fibers which reach appropriate targets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Somatotopical organization of striatal activation during finger and toe movement: a 3-T functional magnetic resonance imaging study.	The present study aimed at determining the distribution and somatotopical organization of striatal activation during performance of simple motor tasks. Ten right-handed healthy volunteers were studied by using a 3-T whole-body magnetic resonance unit and echo planar imaging. The tasks consisted of self-paced flexion/extension of the right fingers or toes. Motor activation was found mainly in the putamen posterior to the anterior commissure (10 of 10 subjects) and the globus pallidus (6 subjects), whereas the caudate nucleus was activated in only 3 subjects, and in a smaller area. Thus, performance of a simple motor task activated the sensorimotor territory of the basal ganglia. Within the putamen, there was a somatotopical organization of the foot and hand areas similar to that observed in nonhuman primates. These data suggest that functional magnetic resonance imaging can be used to study normal function of the basal ganglia and should therefore also allow investigation of patients with movement disorders.
SPECT (HMPAO) support for activation of the medial prefrontal cortices during toe graphaesthesia.	This experiment was designed to test the construct validity of psychometric analyses that suggested a strong functional association between the accuracy for toe graphaesthesia and selective activation of neurons within the medial prefrontal regions. Single Photon Emission Computerized Tomography (SPECT) profiles were obtained for three volunteers (2 men, 1 woman) after they had been exposed to a toe graphaesthesia task or had been exposed to the control setting. The two measurements for each participant were separated by at least one week. Qualitative evaluation, using criteria employed for clinical diagnoses, of serial coronal, sagittal, and horizontal sections clearly indicated a specific increase in uptake of tracer within the rostral one-third to one-half of the medial prefrontal cortices of all three subjects during the toe graphaesthesia task compared to that during baseline conditions. The results are consistent with our neuropsychological research which indicates that toe graphaesthesia may be an accurate and useful indicator of the functional integrity of the medial surfaces of the anterior cerebral hemispheres.
Electromyographic analysis of grand-plié in ballet and modern dancers.	The purpose of this report is to describe lower extremity muscle activity in grand-plié, as determined by EMG analysis; to compare and contrast muscle function in grand-plié and demi-plié to support the hypothesis that grand-plié is not simply a deeper demi-plié, but rather a fundamentally different movement in terms of muscle use; and to present further evidence in support of the hypothesis that ballet dancers use muscles differently than modern dancers in dance movement.
