Bilateral proximal cellulitis and onychomycosis in both big toes due to Fusarium solani]	We report a case of proximal fold cellulitis in both big toes, associated with a bilateral proximal onychomycosis and an intertrigo of the fourth space due to Fusarium solani. The infection occurred in an immunocompetent man with diabetes mellitus type II. Apparently, the infection was acquired in a tropical country and once the patient was in Spain the infection progressed causing nail detachment (onychomadesis). Seven months later a relapse that affected the left toenail occurred. The patient was treated topically with chemical toenail avulsion contained 40% urea associated with bifonazole followed by ciclopirox-olamine nail lacquer for 12 months. Complete cure without relapse was observed after 10 years of follow-up. In vitro antifungal susceptibility study demonstrated that two of the recovered isolates were both resistant to itraconazole and voriconazole.
Epidemiological and etiological study of foot mycosis in Tunisia.	Tinea pedis and onychomycosis are among the commonest fungal diseases in the world. Recently, there has been an increase in the numbers of fungal agents implicated in these conditions.
Clinico-mycological study of onychomycosis in elderly patients]	Physical examination of nails was carried out in 210 elderly patients and nail scrapings were obtained from onychomycosis suggested lesions in order to determine their causative agents, incidence and clinical characteristics. Diagnostic was confirmed by the isolation of the agents from 74 patients, mainly from toe-nails (incidence 35.2). Tinea pedis occurred in 25% of the cases and Diabetes mellitus was the most prevalent associated disease and the most frequent clinical characteristics were the thickening, the opacity and the presence of longitudinal strias in the surface of the nails. It was compared the results obtained by microscopic examination and by culture. Trichophyton rubrum was the most common dermatophyte isolated; Candida parapsilosis was dominant among Candida species.
