Modification of TLR-induced activation of human dendritic cells by type I IFN: synergistic interaction with TLR4 but not TLR3 agonists.	Upon detection of direct and indirect signs of infection, dendritic cells (DC) undergo functional changes that modify their ability to elicit immune responses. Type I interferon (IFN-alpha/beta), which includes a large family of closely related infection-inducible cytokines, represents one indirect signal that can act as a DC stimulus. We have investigated the ability of IFN-alpha/beta subtypes to affect DC function and to influence DC responses to Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists (i.e., direct infection-associated signals). Subtle differences were observed among 15 subtypes of IFN-alpha/beta in the ability to stimulate expression of maturation markers and chemokines by human monocyte-derived DC, with IFN-omega being the most unique in its effects. Pre-treatment with IFN-alpha/beta did not alter the ability of DC to mature in response to subsequent contact with TLR agonists, but did modulate their secretion of chemokines. Conversely, IFN-alpha/beta was shown to act synergistically with TLR4 but not TLR3 agonists for the induction of maturation and chemokine production when DC were exposed to IFN-alpha/beta and TLR ligands simultaneously. Taken together, these results indicate a complex role for IFN-alpha/beta in regulating DC function during the course an infection, which varies according to IFN-alpha/beta subtype and the timing of exposure to other stimuli.
Toll-like receptor 3 agonist induces impairment of uterine vascular remodeling and fetal losses in CBA x DBA/2 mice.	The objective of this study was to examine the expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 at the maternal-fetal interface and determine whether exposure to TLR3 agonist would induce an innate immune response and trigger pregnancy loss. To address this, abortion-prone male DBA/2J mated-CBA/J female mice were given polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly I:C; 10 microg/g body weight, i.p.) or PBS at gestation day (gd) 6.5. All implantation sites appeared viable at gd 7.5 when endometrium was dissected for immunohistological examination. It was noted that poly I:C treatment increased fetal losses to 40.2+/-1.7% at midgestation stage compared with control animals (11.0+/-3.0%). It was observed also that the ratio of vessel to lumen area significantly increased at gd 10.5 and gd 12.5 after poly I:C treatment, indicating that the spiral artery (SA) modification was impaired. Meanwhile, 24h after poly I:C injection, expression of TLR3 was markedly elevated within decidua basalis (DB), and endometrial TNF-alpha increased 2.7-fold but IFN-gamma remained unchanged in homogenized endometrium. These results suggest that enhanced TNF-alpha expression in endometrial stroma may play a critical role in inflammatory factor production and impairment of uterine spiral artery remodeling in the pregnancy failure of CBA x DBA/2 mating.
STAT3 and COX-2 activation in the guinea-pig brain during fever induced by the Toll-like receptor-3 agonist polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid.	Intra-arterial injections of synthetic double-stranded RNA (polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, PIPC) at a dose of 500 microg/kg evoked pronounced fever in guinea-pigs. PIPC-induced fever could be antagonized by treatment with the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor diclofenac and was, in part, attenuated by the administration of the selective COX-2-inhibitor nimesulide (dose: 5 mg/kg for both COX inhibitors). We further investigated whether direct activation of brain cells during PIPC-induced fever could be demonstrated. Using radioactive in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that treatment with PIPC resulted in an upregulation of COX-2 and interleukin-1 beta mRNA in the guinea-pig brain. Thus, COX-2-specific hybridization signals seemed to be mainly associated with brain blood vessels. Intra-arterial injections of PIPC further induced the pronounced nuclear translocation of the transcription factor STAT3 in the endothelium of various fore- and hindbrain areas and in the meninges. In brain structures that lacked a tight blood-brain barrier, i.e. the sensory circumventricular organs (area postrema, vascular organ of laminae terminalis, subfornical organ), the astrocytes and a population of still undetermined cellular phenotype also showed marked STAT3 activation in response to PIPC. The Toll-like receptor-3 agonist PIPC therefore caused a similar activation of brain cells as that reported for other experimental models of systemic inflammation.
The virion host shut-off (vhs) protein blocks a TLR-independent pathway of herpes simplex virus type 1 recognition in human and mouse dendritic cells.	Molecular pathways underlying the activation of dendritic cells (DCs) in response to Herpes Simplex Virus type 1 (HSV-1) are poorly understood. Removal of the HSV virion host shut-off (vhs) protein relieves a block to DC activation observed during wild-type infection. In this study, we utilized a potent DC stimulatory HSV-1 recombinant virus lacking vhs as a tool to investigate the mechanisms involved in the activation of DCs by HSV-1. We report that the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines by conventional DC (cDC) during HSV-1 infection is triggered by both virus replication-dependent and replication-independent pathways. Interestingly, while vhs is capable of inhibiting the release of cytokines during infection of human and mouse cDCs, the secretion of cytokines by plasmacytoid DC (pDC) is not affected by vhs. These data prompted us to postulate that infection of cDCs by HSV triggers a TLR independent pathway for cDC activation that is susceptible to blockage by the vhs protein. Using cDCs isolated from mice deficient in both the TLR adaptor protein MyD88 and TLR3, we show that HSV-1 and the vhs-deleted virus can activate cDCs independently of TLR signaling. In addition, virion-associated vhs fails to block cDC activation in response to treatment with TLR agonists, but it efficiently blocked cDC activation triggered by the paramyxoviruses Sendai Virus (SeV) and Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV). This block to SeV- and NDV-induced activation of cDC resulted in elevated SeV and NDV viral gene expression indicating that infection with HSV-1 enhances the cell's susceptibility to other pathogens through the action of vhs. Our results demonstrate for the first time that a viral protein contained in the tegument of HSV-1 can block the induction of DC activation by TLR-independent pathways of viral recognition.
Profound CD8+ T cell immunity elicited by sequential daily immunization with exogenous antigen plus the TLR3 agonist poly(I:C).	The development of vaccines that elicit robust CD8(+) T cell immunity has long been a subject of intense investigation. Although whole exogenous protein has not historically been considered as useful for eliciting CD8(+) T cell immunity, we report herein that whole, protein antigen is capable of eliciting profound levels of CD8(+) T cell immunity if it is administered via repeated, daily subcutaneous immunization in combination with the TLR3 agonist poly(I:C). Mice immunized for four consecutive days with 100 μg of either whole exogenous OVA or whole HPV16 E7 protein combined with 10 μg of poly(I:C) mounted remarkable antigen-specific CD8(+) T cell responses as measured by tetramer staining and ELISPOT analysis of splenocytes and peripheral blood, with up to 30% of peripheral CD8(+) T cells being antigen specific within 7-8 days of vaccination. CD8(+) T cell immunity elicited using this vaccination approach was critically dependent upon cross presentation, as either whole protein or long synthetic peptides were highly effective immunogens whereas minimal peptide epitopes were not. Vaccine-induced CD8(+) T cells were also able to regress large, established tumors in vivo. Together these data suggest that 'cluster' vaccination with exogenous antigen combined with TLR3 agonist may constitute a profoundly important advancement in therapeutic vaccine design.
Filaggrin knockdown and Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) stimulation enhanced the production of thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) from epidermal layers.	Keratinocytes constitute the first-line barrier against exogenous antigens and contain Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which function as pattern-recognition molecules to activate antimicrobial innate immune responses. In an effort to ascertain whether or not filaggrin (filament-aggregating protein) expression affected the TLR-mediated responses of keratinocytes, we transfected filaggrin siRNA into HaCaT human keratinocyte cells and determined that thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) and IL-6 secretion were increased by poly(I:C) stimulus. Additionally, TSLP expression is increased in filaggrin knockdown as well as TLR3 stimulation in reconstituted human epidermal layers. Therefore, the findings of this study show that reduced filaggrin levels may influence innate immune responses via TLR stimuli and may contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory skin disease via TSLP expression.
Activation of Toll-like receptor 3 induces apoptosis of oral squamous carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo.	Toll-like receptors are well known as molecular sensors of pathogen-associated molecular patterns. They control activation of the innate immune response and subsequently shape the adaptive immune response. Recent publications have demonstrated that Toll-like receptors also play important roles in multiple human cancers, yet their function in oral squamous cell carcinoma remains unclear. In this study, we showed that both oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and tissues from oral squamous carcinoma patients express relatively high levels of Toll-like receptor 3. We also found that synthetic dsRNA-polyinosinic-polycytidilic acid, a Toll-like receptor 3 ligand, induced apoptosis of oral squamous carcinoma cells mainly via Toll-like receptor 3, through interferon-β production and activation of caspases 3 and 9. Moreover, in an oral squamous cell carcinoma xenograft mouse model, we demonstrated for the first time that activation of Toll-like receptor 3 inhibited oral squamous cell carcinoma tumor growth in vivo. Therefore, the direct proapoptotic activity of Toll-like receptor 3 in human oral squamous carcinoma cells may make this protein a viable therapeutic target in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Toll-like receptor 3 agonist complexed with cationic liposome augments vaccine-elicited antitumor immunity by enhancing TLR3-IRF3 signaling and type I interferons in dendritic cells.	Cancer vaccine-based immunotherapy is emerging as a novel therapeutic strategy for cancer treatment. However, its antitumor effect remains unsatisfied due to the poor immunogenicity of tumor antigens (Ags). Although polyriboinosinic: polyribocytidylic acid (PIC), a TLR3 agonist, has been reported as a promising adjuvant for cancer vaccines, its immunopotency may be limited by insufficient cellular penetration. In the present study, we incorporated PIC into DOTAP cationic liposome to generate PIC-DOTAP Liposome Complex (PDLC) nanoparticles. The results showed that PDLC was more potent than DOTAP or PIC to enhance vaccine-induced tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response and IFN-γ production. Moreover, two doses of PDLC vaccines remarkably suppressed tumor growth in mice, which involved the participance of CD8(+) T cells and depended on the presence of Ag. The superior antitumor effect of PDLC vaccines could be attributable to enhanced maturation of mouse bone-marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs) and increased production of type I IFNs. More importantly, PDLC strengthened the TLR3 signaling in BMDCs by enhancing the interaction of PIC with TLR3 and augmenting downstream IRF-3 phosphorylation, as well as elevating IRF-3/IRF-7 mRNA transcription. Taking together, the complex of PIC and DOTAP liposomes enhanced PIC uptake and consequential TLR3 signaling in BMDCs, which in turn promoted DC maturation and type I IFN production, thereby augmenting the antitumor effect of cancer vaccines.
Modulation of TLR9 response in a mouse model of herpes simplex virus encephalitis.	We evaluated the effects of agonists and antagonist of toll-like receptor (TLR) 9 in comparison with a TLR3 agonist in a mouse model of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encephalitis (HSE). BALB/c mice received a single intranasal dose of either a TLR3 agonist (polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid; PIC), TLR9 agonists (oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) 1585, 1826 or 2395) or a TLR9 antagonist (ODN 2088), 1 day before and, for selected groups, 3 days after infection with HSV-1. Mice that received the pre-treatment with vehicle, PIC, ODNs 1585, 1826, 2395 and 2088 before infection had survival rates of 25%, 65%, 55%, 40%, 55% and 30%, respectively (P<0.05 for PIC and ODNs 1585 and 2395 versus vehicle). Infected mice subsequently treated with vehicle, ODNs 2395 and 2088 had survival rates of 9%, 0% and 30%, respectively (P<0.05, ODN 2088 versus other groups). The pre-treatment of mice with ODN 2395 reduced both the viral load (P<0.05 at day 5) and the production of CCL2, IL-6 and CCL5 at days 3, 4 and 5 (P<0.05 for IL-6 at day 3 and P<0.05 for CCL2 and CCL5 at day 4). Treatment of infected mice with ODN 2088 reduced the production of the same cytokines (P=0.07 for CCL2 and P=0.09 for IL-6 at day 5). Pre-treatment of mice with TLR9 agonists before infection reduces brain viral load and cytokine levels resulting in increased HSE survival rates. On the other hand, TLR9 antagonists can be helpful to control the inflammatory response that could be detrimental after infection.
Human endometrial endothelial cells generate distinct inflammatory and antiviral responses to the TLR3 agonist, Poly(I:C) and the TLR8 agonist, viral ssRNA.	Human endometrial endothelial cell (HEEC) innate immunity remains poorly characterized. Based on their direct contact with the circulation, HEECs are uniquely positioned to be exposed to viral infections. This study evaluated the innate immune response generated by HEECs after exposure to the TLR3 agonist, Poly(I:C) and the TLR8 agonist, viral ssRNA.
IL-27 enhances the expression of TRAIL and TLR3 in human melanomas and inhibits their tumor growth in cooperation with a TLR3 agonist poly(I:C) partly in a TRAIL-dependent manner.	Interleukin (IL)-27 is a member of the IL-6/IL-12 cytokine family and possesses potent antitumor activity, which is mediated by multiple mechanisms. Toll-like receptor (TLR)3 is the critical sensor of the innate immune system that serves to identify viral double-stranded RNA. TLR3 is frequently expressed by various types of malignant cells, and recent studies reported that a synthetic TLR3 agonist, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)], induces antitumor effects on malignant cells. In the present study, we have explored the effect of IL-27 on human melanomas and uncovered a previously unknown mechanism. We found that IL-27 inhibits in vitro tumor growth of human melanomas and greatly enhances the expression of TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) in a dose-dependent manner. Neutralizing antibody against TRAIL partly but significantly blocked the IL-27-mediated inhibition of tumor growth. In addition, IL-27 and poly(I:C) cooperatively augmented TRAIL expression and inhibited tumor growth. The cooperative effect could be ascribed to the augmented expression of TLR3, but not retinoic acid-inducible gene-I or anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5, by IL-27. The inhibition of tumor growth by the combination was also significantly abrogated by anti-TRAIL neutralizing antibody. Moreover, IL-27 and poly(I:C) cooperatively suppressed in vivo tumor growth of human melanoma in immunodeficient mice. Taken together, these results suggest that IL-27 enhances the expression of TRAIL and TLR3 in human melanomas and inhibits their tumor growth in cooperation with poly(I:C), partly in a TRAIL-dependent manner. Thus, IL-27 and the combination of IL-27 and poly(I:C) may be attractive candidates for cancer immunotherapy. 
The effect of combined IL10 siRNA and CpG ODN as pathogen-mimicking microparticles on Th1/Th2 cytokine balance in dendritic cells and protective immunity against B cell lymphoma.	Success of an immunotherapy for cancer often depends on the critical balance of T helper 1 (Th1) and T helper 2 (Th2) responses driven by antigen presenting cells, specifically dendritic cells (DCs). Th1-driven cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses are key to eliminating tumor cells. It is well established that CpG oligonucleotides (ODN), a widely studied Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist, used to enhance Th1 response, also induces high levels of the anti-inflammatory, Th2-promoting cytokine IL10, which could dampen the resulting Th1 response. Biomaterials-based immunomodulatory strategies that can reduce IL10 production while maintaining IL12 levels during CpG delivery could further enhance the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance and improve anti-tumor immune response. Here we report that dual-delivery of IL10-silencing siRNA along with CpG ODN to the same DCs using pathogen-mimicking microparticles (PMPs), significantly enhances their Th1/Th2 cytokine ratio through concurrent inhibition of CpG-induced IL10 production. Co-delivery of poly(I:C), a TLR3 agonist had only minor effects on IL10 levels. Further, simultaneous immunotherapy with CpG ODN and IL10 siRNA enhanced immune protection of an idiotype DNA vaccine in a prophylactic murine model of B cell lymphoma whereas co-delivery of poly(I:C) and CpG did not enhance protection. These results suggest that PMPs can be used to precisely modulate TLR ligand-mediated immune-stimulation in DCs, through co-delivery of cytokine-silencing siRNAs and thereby boost antitumor immunity. 
