Imiquimod, a Toll-like receptor-7 agonist, induces perforin in cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vitro.	Imiquimod (IMQ), an activator of Toll-like receptor-7 (TLR-7), induces by several routes a profound anti-viral and anti-tumor effect in vivo. Physiologically, the immune system is using perforin-containing granules of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) towards the same biological purpose. This functional synergism prompted our current experiments addressing the question whether IMQ may influence perforin-release and/or induce perforin in CTLs in vitro. In peripheral lymphocytes of healthy and diseased subjects, IMQ induced a significant increase of perforin(+) CTLs within 12h in all experiments performed. This effect was most pronounced in CTLs of patients suffering from atopic dermatitis, a model disorder for subnormal perforin expression: as compared to perforin(+) CTLs detected at time point zero (100%), up to 270% of perforin(+) CTLs were induced by 2.5 microg/ml [corrected] IMQ. Perforin release from peripheral blood CTLs after PMA/ionomycin-stimulation was not influenced significantly by IMQ. Thus, the biological activity of IMQ appears to exceed its previously known functions, inasmuch as it boosts up significantly the perforin-granule system.
Activation of mast cells by double-stranded RNA: evidence for activation through Toll-like receptor 3.	Although mast cells (MCs) have been clearly implicated in innate immune responses involving bacteria, their ability to respond to viral infection is less clear.
TLRs govern neutrophil activity in aspergillosis.	Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) are essential in initiation and execution of the acute inflammatory response and subsequent resolution of fungal infection. PMNs, however, may act as double-edged swords, as the excessive release of oxidants and proteases may be responsible for injury to organs and fungal sepsis. To identify regulatory mechanisms that may balance PMN-dependent protection and immunopathology in fungal infections, the involvement of different TLR-activation pathways was evaluated on human PMNs exposed to the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. Recognition of Aspergillus and activation of PMNs occurred through the involvement of distinct members of the TLR family, each likely activating specialized antifungal effector functions. By affecting the balance between fungicidal oxidative and nonoxidative mechanisms, pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine production, and apoptosis vs necrosis, the different TLRs ultimately impacted on the quality of microbicidal activity and inflammatory pathology. Signaling through TLR2 promoted the fungicidal activity of PMNs through oxidative pathways involving extracellular release of gelatinases and proinflammatory cytokines while TLR4 favored the oxidative pathways through the participation of azurophil, myeloperoxidase-positive, granules and IL-10. This translated in vivo in the occurrence of different patterns of fungal clearance and inflammatory pathology. Both pathways were variably affected by signaling through TLR3, TLR5, TLR6, TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9. The ability of selected individual TLRs to restore antifungal functions in defective PMNs suggests that the coordinated outputs of activation of multiple TLRs may contribute to PMN function in aspergillosis.
IL-10 released by concomitant TLR2 stimulation blocks the induction of a subset of Th1 cytokines that are specifically induced by TLR4 or TLR3 in human dendritic cells.	Recognition of microbial products through TLRs triggers the expression of several cytokines that regulate innate and adaptive immunity. Signaling by various TLRs is not equivalent and leads to differential gene induction. This study analyzed the responses of human dendritic cells (DCs) and PBMCs stimulated with agonists of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR7, first individually and then in combination. Several cytokines were equally induced by all TLR agonists, but four genes, IFN-beta, IFN-gamma-inducible protein 10 (IP-10), IL-12p35, and IL-15, showed a very restricted pattern of induction. Thus, each TLR appears to possess a distinctive ability to activate DCs or PBMCs, suggesting that TLR-mediated responses cannot be simply cataloged as resembling either TLR2 (MyD88 dependent) or TLR4 (MyD88 independent) and that other signaling modalities may exist. The analysis of DC and PBMC activation by combinations of TLR agonists revealed that TLR2 agonists are able to block the induction of IP-10, IL-12p35, and IFN-gamma, but not IL-15 and IFN-beta, by TLR3 and TLR4. TLR2 stimulation led to rapid release of IL-10 that is responsible for inhibition of IP-10 and IL-12p35 induction. Cross-talk between different TLRs may modify the primary responses of TLR to their agonist, adding a further level of complexity to the regulation of innate immunity.
Use of murine embryonic fibroblasts to define Toll-like receptor activation and specificity.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are critically involved in the innate immune response to bacterial, viral and fungal pathogens. We have studied human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and a panel of human cell lines, including HEK, HeLa, AGS, ECV304 and U373 cells, for expression of TLR-specific mRNAs and for TLR-ligand dependent cytokine secretion. Peripheral blood cells expressed multiple TLRs; however, many studies have shown that blood contains multiple, heterogeneous cell populations with distinct patterns of TLR expression. Cell lines had variable expression of TLRs, and in most cases lacked TLR2 and TLR8 expression and only weakly expressed mRNAs for TLR5, TLR7 and TLR9. In contrast, MEFs expressed high levels of mRNA for TLR1, TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, TLR6, TLR7, TLR8 and TLR9. MEFs were highly responsive to TLR-ligand activation and secreted high levels of both IL-6 and MCP-1 in response to TLR ligands. MEFs from mice with targeted deletions of TLR2, TLR4 and MyD88 demonstrated profound defects in their IL-6 response to their specific ligands, consistent with studies of macrophages and tissues from adult knockout animals. MEF cultures are homogenous and amenable to biochemical analysis and should allow rigorous studies of the contribution of individual TLRs to the innate immune response.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cell precursors/type I interferon-producing cells sense viral infection by Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and TLR9.	Plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) precursors, also called type I IFN (alpha/beta/omega)-producing cells (IPCs), are the key effectors in the innate immune system because of their extraordinary capacity to produce type I IFNs against microbial infection, particularly viral infection. In contrast to myeloid DCs, human pDC/IPCs selectively express Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and TLR9 within the endosomal compartment. These receptors are specifically designed to recognize the nucleoside-based products derived from RNA viruses and DNA viruses. Therefore, this expression profile potentially enables pDC/IPCs to sense a variety of viruses. Stimulation of TLR7 or TLR9 leads to type I IFN responses through the MyD88 pathway. Thus, pDC/IPCs may play a central role in host defense against viral infection through the TLR7 and TLR9 system.
Dendritic cells respond to influenza virus through TLR7- and PKR-independent pathways.	Natural interferon-producing cells (IPC) secrete type I IFN (IFN-alpha and -beta) in response to influenza virus. This process is independent of viral replication and is mediated by Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7), which recognizes single-stranded RNA (ssRNA). DC also express TLR7 but its function in DC response to influenza virus is unknown. To address this, we compared the DC and IPC responses to influenza virus and ssRNA oligoribonucleotides (ORN) that activate TLR7. When stimulated by ORN in vitro and in vivo, DC matured and produced inflammatory cytokines but not IFN-alpha. DC did secrete IFN-alpha in response to influenza virus. However, this response was independent of TLR7 signaling and required viral replication but not dsRNA-activated protein kinase (PKR). We conclude that DC and IPC are hard-wired to secrete IFN-alpha via different pathways, reflecting their complementary but distinct roles in anti-viral immunity.
Synthetic TLR agonists reveal functional differences between human TLR7 and TLR8.	Although TLR7 and TLR8 are phylogenetically and structurally related, their relative functions are largely unknown. The role of TLR7 has been established using TLR7-deficient mice and small molecule TLR7 agonists. The absence of TLR8-selective agonists has hampered our understanding of the role of TLR8. In this study TLR agonists selective for TLR7 or TLR8 were used to determine the repertoire of human innate immune cells that are activated through these TLRs. We found that TLR7 agonists directly activated purified plasmacytoid dendritic cells and, to a lesser extent, monocytes. Conversely, TLR8 agonists directly activated purified myeloid dendritic cells, monocytes, and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (GM-CSF/IL-4/TGF-beta). Accordingly, TLR7-selective agonists were more effective than TLR8-selective agonists at inducing IFN-alpha- and IFN-regulated chemokines such as IFN-inducible protein and IFN-inducible T cell alpha chemoattractant from human PBMC. In contrast, TLR8 agonists were more effective than TLR7 agonists at inducing proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, such as TNF-alpha, IL-12, and MIP-1alpha. Thus, this study demonstrated that TLR7 and TLR8 agonists differ in their target cell selectivity and cytokine induction profile.
Sequence-specific potent induction of IFN-alpha by short interfering RNA in plasmacytoid dendritic cells through TLR7.	Short interfering RNA (siRNA) is used in RNA interference technology to avoid non-target-related induction of type I interferon (IFN) typical for long double-stranded RNA. Here we show that in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC), an immune cell subset specialized in the detection of viral nucleic acids and production of type I IFN, some siRNA sequences, independent of their GU content, are potent stimuli of IFN-alpha production. Localization of the immunostimulatory motif on the sense strand of a potent IFN-alpha-inducing siRNA allowed dissection of immunostimulation and target silencing. Injection into mice of immunostimulatory siRNA, when complexed with cationic liposomes, induced systemic immune responses in the same range as the TLR9 ligand CpG, including IFN-alpha in serum and activation of T cells and dendritic cells in spleen. Immunostimulation by siRNA was absent in TLR7-deficient mice. Thus sequence-specific TLR7-dependent immune recognition in PDC needs to be considered as an additional biological activity of siRNA, which then should be termed immunostimulatory RNA (isRNA).
Inhibition of neutrophil apoptosis by TLR agonists in whole blood: involvement of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt and NF-kappaB signaling pathways, leading to increased levels of Mcl-1, A1, and phosphorylated Bad.	Using flow cytometry, we investigated the effect of TLR agonists on human polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) apoptosis in whole blood. LPS (TLR4), peptidoglycan (TLR2), R-848 (TLR7/8), and CpG-DNA (TLR9) were equally effective at delaying spontaneous apoptosis of PMN, while PamCSK4 (TLR1/2), macrophage-activating lipopeptide-2 (TLR2/6), flagellin (TLR5), and loxoribine (TLR7) were less effective or inactive. TLR agonists found to delay apoptosis also extended the functional life span of PMN. Analysis of signaling pathways revealed that the antiapoptotic effect of TLR agonists required NF-kappaB and PI3K activation. Furthermore, analysis of intact cells by flow cytometry showed that TLR agonists delaying PMN apoptosis increased phosphorylation of Akt, a major target of PI3K. This effect was associated with a PI3K-dependent increase in heat shock protein 27 phosphorylation, which has been reported to play a key role in PMN survival. Finally, the TLR-induced delay in PMN apoptosis was associated with increased levels of Mcl-1 and A1, which are antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family. These effects were reversed by PI3K and NF-kappaB inhibitors, respectively. TLR activation also led to PI3K-dependent phosphorylation of the proapoptotic protein Bad. Taken together, our results strongly suggest a role of NF-kappaB and PI3K in TLR-induced PMN survival, leading to modulation of Bcl-2 family molecules.
Expression and function of Toll-like receptors in chicken heterophils.	The heterophil is the major polymorphonuclear cell in birds with a functional capacity akin to that of the mammalian neutrophil. Herein, we demonstrate that heterophils constitutively express TLR1/6/10, TLR2 type 1, TLR2 type 2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR7 mRNA. Furthermore, TLR agonists, including flagellin (from Salmonella typhimurium, FGN), peptidoglycan (from Staphylococcus aureus, PGN), ultra-pure lipopolysaccharide (from Salmonella minnesota, LPS), the synthetic double stranded RNA analog [poly(I:C)], and the guanosine analog, loxoribine (LOX) directly induced both an oxidative burst and a degranulation response. Interestingly, the synthetic bacterial lipoprotein Pam3CSK4 (palmitoyl-3-cysteine-serine-lysine-4, PAM) induced degranulation, but no oxidative burst. The bacterial TLR agonists (PAM, PGN, LPS, and FGN) all induced an up-regulation of expression of mRNA of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, and IL-8; whereas both poly(I:C) and LOX induced a down-regulation of these cytokine mRNAs. Stimulation of heterophils with each specific TLR agonist led to a differential increase in the phosphorylation of both p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2) activation, but not the phosphorylation of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK). The broad TLR expression profile in heterophils reflects their principal role as first line effector cells in avian host defense against bacterial, viral, fungal, and parasitic infections. The results demonstrate the differential involvement of TLR-induced signals in the stimulation of transduction pathways that regulate the oxygen-dependent and -independent antimicrobial defense mechanisms of avian heterophils.
Targeting uptake receptors on human plasmacytoid dendritic cells triggers antigen cross-presentation and robust type I IFN secretion.	Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) play a crucial role in initiating immune responses by secreting large amounts of type I IFNs. Currently, the role for human pDCs as professional APCs in the cross-presentation of exogenous Ags is being re-evaluated. Human pDCs are equipped with a broad repertoire of Ag uptake receptors and an efficient Ag-processing machinery. In this study, we set out to investigate which receptor can best be deployed to deliver Ag to pDCs for Ag (cross-)presentation. We show that targeting nanoparticles to pDCs via the C-type lectins DEC-205, DC immunoreceptor, blood DC Ag-2, or the FcR CD32 led to uptake, processing, and (cross-) presentation of encapsulated Ag to both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. This makes these receptors good candidates for potential in vivo targeting of pDCs by nanocarriers. Notably, the coencapsulated TLR7 agonist R848 efficiently activated pDCs, resulting in phenotypical maturation as well as robust IFN-α and TNF-α production. Taken together, their cross-presentation capacity and type I IFN production to further activate components of both the innate and adaptive immune system mark pDCs as inducers of potent antitumor responses. These findings pave the way to actively recruit human pDCs for cellular cancer immunotherapy. 
