Toll-like receptor 3 associates with c-Src tyrosine kinase on endosomes to initiate antiviral signaling.	Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is produced during the replication cycle of most viruses and triggers antiviral immune responses through Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3). However, the molecular mechanisms and subcellular compartments associated with dsRNA-TLR3-mediated signaling are largely unknown. Here we show that c-Src tyrosine kinase is activated by dsRNA in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells, and is recruited to TLR3 in a dsRNA-dependent manner. DsRNA-induced activation of interferon-regulatory factor 3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 was abolished in Src kinase-deficient cells, and restored by adding back c-Src, suggesting a central role of c-Src in antiviral immunity. We also provide evidence that TLR3 is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of unstimulated cells, moves to dsRNA-containing endosomes in response to dsRNA, and colocalizes with c-Src on endosomes containing dsRNA in the lumen. These results provide novel insight into the molecular mechanisms of TLR3-mediated signaling, which may contribute to the understanding of innate immune responses during viral infections.
Expression of toll-like receptors and type 1 interferon specific protein MxA in biliary atresia.	Viral infection and type I interferon have been implicated in the pathogenesis of biliary atresia (BA), but the expression of toll-like receptors (TLRs) that recognize viruses, as well as of type 1 interferon specific signaling molecules are still unknown in BA. Fresh liver tissues were obtained from patients in early and late stage of BA and from patients with choledochal cyst (CC), as well as from normal controls receiving liver resection for benign lesion other than cholestasis or fibrosis. Archived liver tissues from patients with neonatal hepatitis (NH) were obtained for immunohistochemical studies. TLR2, 3, 4, 7 and 9 that recognized Gram-positive bacteria, double-stranded RNA virus, lipopolysaccharide, single-stranded RNA virus and DNA virus, respectively, were studied. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR) was used to quantitate TLR, type I interferon specific molecule MxA, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8 mRNA expression and immunohistochemistry for TLR 7 and MxA protein staining. These results show that there were significantly higher TLR7 and lower TLR3 and TLR9 mRNA expression in early stage of BA than in CC. MxA mRNA expression was also significantly higher in early stage of BA and in CC than in late stage of BA. Immunoreactive TLR7 and MxA staining was higher in early stage of BA than in late stage of BA, NH and CC, which was associated with significantly higher IL-8 mRNA expression in BA than in CC. The results implicate involvement of TLRs, particularly TLR7, and type 1 specific interferon signaling in the pathogenesis of BA, especially in early stage, which is associated with upregulation of inflammatory cytokines IL-8.
Distinct roles of protein kinase R and toll-like receptor 3 in the activation of astrocytes by viral stimuli.	Impaired immune surveillance and constitutive immunosuppressive properties make the central nervous system (CNS) a particular challenge to immune defense, and require that CNS-resident cells be capable of rapidly recognizing and responding to infection. We have previously shown that astrocytes respond to treatment with a TLR3 ligand, poly I:C, with the upregulation of innate immune functions. In the current study, we examine the activation of innate immune functions of astrocytes by Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), a picornavirus, which establishes a persistent infection in the CNS of susceptible strains of mice and leads to the development of an autoimmune demyelinating disease that resembles human multiple sclerosis. Astrocytes infected with TMEV are activated to produce type I interferons, the cytokine IL-6, and chemokines CCL2 and CXCL10. We further examined the mechanisms that are responsible for the activation of astrocytes in response to direct viral infection and treatment with poly I:C. We found that the cytoplasmic dsRNA-activated kinase PKR is important for innate immune responses to TMEV infection, but has no role in their induction by poly I:C delivered extracellularly. In contrast, we found that TLR3 has only a minor role in responses to TMEV infection, but is important for responses to poly I:C. These results highlight the differences between responses induced by direct, nonlytic virus infection and extracellular poly I:C. The activation of astrocytes through these different pathways has implications for the initiation and progression of viral encephalitis and demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
Evidence for evolving Toll-IL-1 receptor-containing adaptor molecule function in vertebrates.	In mammals, Toll-IL-1R-containing adaptor molecule 1 (TICAM1)-dependent TLR pathways induce NF-kappaB and IFN-beta responses. TICAM1 activates NF-kappaB through two different pathways involving its interactions with TNFR-associated factor 6 and receptor-interacting protein 1. It also activates IFN regulatory factor 3/7 through its interaction with TANK-binding kinase-1, leading to the robust up-regulation of IFN-beta. In this study, we describe the role of zebrafish (Danio rerio) TICAM1 in activating NF-kappaB and zebrafish type I IFN. Zebrafish IFN is unique in that it cannot be categorized as being alpha- or beta-like. Through comprehensive sequence, phylogenetic, and syntenic analyses, we fully describe the identification of a zebrafish TICAM1 ortholog. Zebrafish TICAM1 exhibits sequence divergence from its mammalian orthologs and our data demonstrate that these sequence differences have functional consequences. Zebrafish TICAM1 activates zebrafish IFN; however, it does so in an apparently IFN regulatory factor 3/7-independent manner. Furthermore, zebrafish TICAM1 does not interact with zebrafish TNFR-associated factor 6, thus NF-kappaB activation is dependent upon its interaction with receptor-interacting protein 1. Comparative genome analysis suggests that TICAM1 and TICAM2 evolved from a common vertebrate TICAM ancestor following a gene duplication event and that TICAM2 was lost in teleosts following the divergence of the rayfin and lobefin fishes 450 million years ago. These studies provide evidence, for the first time, of the evolving function of a vertebrate TLR pathway.
The interaction between the ER membrane protein UNC93B and TLR3, 7, and 9 is crucial for TLR signaling.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) sense the presence of microbial and viral pathogens by signal transduction mechanisms that remain to be fully elucidated. A single point mutation (H412R) in the polytopic endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident membrane protein UNC93B abolishes signaling via TLR3, 7, and 9. We show that UNC93B specifically interacts with TLR3, 7, 9, and 13, whereas introduction of the point mutation H412R in UNC93B abolishes their interactions. We establish the physical interaction of the intracellular TLRs with UNC93B in splenocytes and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. Further, by expressing chimeric TLRs, we show that TLR3 and 9 bind to UNC93B via their transmembrane domains. We propose that a physical association between UNC93B and TLRs in the ER is essential for proper TLR signaling.
NKG2D recognition mediates Toll-like receptor 3 signaling-induced breakdown of epithelial homeostasis in the small intestines of mice.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and NK receptors are the two most important receptor families in innate immunity. Although it has been observed that TLR signaling can induce or up-regulate the expression of the ligands for stimulatory NK receptors on monocytes or muscle cells, there is not yet a report indicating whether TLR signaling can break down self-tolerance through NK receptors. The present work reports that TLR3 signaling by polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid stimulation induces intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) to express retinoic acid early inducible-1 (a ligand for NKG2D) and to induce NKG2D expression on CD8alphaalpha intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes by IL-15 derived from TLR3-activated IECs. The blockade of interaction between NKG2D and Rae1 inhibits the cytotoxicity of intraepithelial lymphocytes against IECs in a cell-cell contact-dependent manner and therefore alleviates polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid-induced epithelial destruction and acute mucosal injury of small intestine. These results demonstrate that TLR signaling induces tissue injury through the NKG2D pathway, suggesting that TLR signaling may break down self-tolerance through induction of abnormal expression of ligands for stimulatory NK receptors.
Tiopronin monolayer-protected silver nanoparticles modulate IL-6 secretion mediated by Toll-like receptor ligands.	Capped silver nanoparticles that can be coupled to a variety of molecules and biomolecules are of great interest owing to their potential applications in biomedicine. However, there are no data about their toxicity or functional effects on a key innate immune response, such as IL-6 secretion, after the engagement of the main group of pathogen-associated molecular patterns receptors, that is, the Toll-like receptors (TLRs).
dsRNA activation of endothelin-1 and markers of vascular activation in endothelial cells and fibroblasts.	In patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), the relationship between innate immune activation, represented by increased expression of interferon (IFN)-regulated genes, and vascular injury/activation, manifest by increased endothelin-1 (ET-1), endothelin converting enzyme-1 (ECE1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, is uncertain.
Optimization of activation requirements of immature mouse dendritic JAWSII cells for in vivo application.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialized antigen-presenting cells that are present in peripheral tissues in a resting (immature) state. Their activation is a critical step in the initiation of the primary immune response. In the present study, we optimized in vitro conditions for maturation of commercially available immortalized mouse dendritic precursor JAWSII cells. These cells express surface markers and have properties that are typical of immature DCs and macrophages (e.g. MHC class I and II markers, CD80 molecules, high endocytic capacity), as well as TLR1, TLR3, TLR4, TLR6, and TLR7 receptors. When stimulated with poly I:C (and also LPS) JAWSII cells produced large amounts of IL-6, TNF-α and MCP-1. Incubation of JAWSII cells with IFN-γ markedly increased expression of MHC class I molecules and, more importantly, combination of this cytokine with poly I:C significantly increased expression of CD40 surface protein and CD11c, the most characteristic marker of mouse DCs. The combination of both agents also inhibited the endocytic abilities of JAWSII cells. In in vivo migration studies, exposure of JAWSII cells to poly I:C and IFN-γ led to increased accumulation of these cells in regional lymph nodes. Functional in vivo studies showed that tumor cell lysate-pulsed and subsequently poly I:C/IFN-γ-stimulated JAWSII cells promoted development of specific T cells in lymph nodes. Our studies show that the combination of optimal endogenous and exogenous ligands may induce phenotypic and functional maturation of JAWSII cells necessary for the accomplishment of their antigen-presenting function in vivo.
Tuning the immune response of dendritic cells to surface-assembled poly(I:C) on microspheres through synergistic interactions between phagocytic and TLR3 signaling.	The artificial dsRNA polyriboinosinic acid-polyribocytidylic acid, poly(I:C), is a potent adjuvant candidate for vaccination, as it strongly drives cell-mediated immunity. However, because of its effects on non-immune bystander cells, poly(I:C) administration may bear danger for the development of autoimmune diseases. Thus poly(I:C) should be applied in the lowest dose possible. We investigated microspheres carrying surface-assembled poly(I:C) as a two-in-one adjuvant formulation to stimulate maturation of monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs). Negatively charged polystyrene microspheres were equipped with a poly(ethylene glycol) corona through electrostatically driven surface assembly of a library of polycationic poly(l-lysine)-graft-poly(ethylene glycol) copolymers, PLL-g-PEG. Stable surface assembly of poly(I:C) was achieved by incubation of polymer-coated microspheres in an aqueous poly(I:C) solution. Surface-assembled poly(I:C) exhibited a strongly enhanced efficacy to stimulate maturation of MoDCs by up to two orders of magnitude, as compared to free poly(I:C). Multiple phagocytosis events were the key factor to enhance the efficacy. The cytokine secretion pattern of MoDCs after exposure to surface-assembled poly(I:C) differed from that of free poly(I:C), while their ability to stimulate T cell proliferation was similar. Overall, phagocytic signaling plays an important role in defining the resulting immune response to such two-in-one adjuvant formulations.
Double-stranded RNA induces melanocyte death via activation of Toll-like receptor 3.	As cutaneous pigment-producing cells, melanocytes can become targets of primary and secondary immune response as can be seen in diseases like vitiligo and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) syndrome. Viral infections have previously been implicated as a possible precipitating factor in the destruction of melanocytes in these disorders. During viral replication, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is produced as an intermediate metabolite, which induces antiviral and inflammatory responses through Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) in cells of innate immune system. The functional responses of melanocytes to dsRNA, however, remain unclear. Herein, we demonstrated that human melanocytes expressed TLR3 at a constitutive and inducible level. Stimulation with poly(I:C), a synthetic dsRNA analogue, triggered apoptosis of melanocytes. The apoptosis-inducing effect was shown by RNA interference to be largely dependent on TLR3, but occurred independently of NF-κB activation since treatment with specific NF-κB inhibitor Bay 11-7082 failed to prevent the process. In contrast, IFN-β neutralizing Ab blocked the apoptosis-inducing effect of dsRNA, indicating the involvement of IFN-β autocrine signalling. Furthermore, studies on the intracellular signal transduction pathways revealed that dsRNA induces the activation of p38, ERK1/2 and JNK1/2 in melanocytes. Using specific inhibitors, we demonstrated that activation of p38 and ERK1/2 controlled both IFN-β secretion and IFN-β mediated cell death. Taken together, these data suggest that viral dsRNA stimulates TLR3 in human melanocytes and triggers the cellular apoptosis through autocrine of IFN-β.
An intrinsic B-cell defect supports autoimmunity in New Zealand black chromosome 13 congenic mice.	Introgression of a New Zealand Black (NZB) chromosome 13 interval onto a C57BL/6 (B6) background (B6.NZBc13) is sufficient to produce many hallmarks of lupus, including high-titre anti-chromatin antibody production, abnormal B- and T-cell activation, and renal disease. In this study we sought to characterize the immune defects leading to these abnormalities. By generating hematopoietic chimeras and BCR transgenic mice, we show that the congenic autoimmune phenotype can be transferred by BM cells and requires the presence of autoreactive B cells. Using the hen egg white lysozyme immunoglobulin transgenic mouse model, we demonstrate that B-cell anergy, deletion, and receptor editing are intact. Nevertheless, congenic B cells exhibit altered peripheral B-cell selection, as demonstrated by enhanced survival and activation of endogenous B cells with autoreactivity to chromatin and Sm/ribonucleoprotein. Given the autoantibody specificities to nuclear antigens, TLR signalling was assessed. B6.NZBc13 B cells were hyper-responsive to poly(I:C), a TLR3 ligand, demonstrating enhanced proliferation and survival as compared to B6 B cells. Our findings indicate the presence of an intrinsic B-cell defect on NZB chromosome 13 that results in hyper-responsiveness to a dsRNA analogue and implicates its potential supporting role in the generation of autoimmunity in B6.NZBc13 mice.
Expressions of Toll-like receptors 3, 4, 7, and 9 in cervical lesions and their correlation with HPV16 infection in Uighur women.	Recent findings show that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) expressed in immune cells play a crucial role in the innate immune response and the subsequent induction of adaptive immune responses against microbial infection on tissue injury. Furthermore, expression of TLRs in cancer cells is associated with tumor proliferation and invasion. To explore the role of TLRs expression in cervical carcinogenesis in Uighur women, we detected the expressions of TLR3, TLR4, TLR7, and TLR9 in 25 normal cervical tissues, 64 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) tissues, and 63 cervical squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) tissues using immunohistochemical staining, as well as human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) infection using PCR. All samples used in this study were from Xinjiang Uighur women. We found the expression levels of TLR4, TLR7, and TLR9 were significantly higher in CIN and CSCC than in normal controls (P < 0.05). Up-regulation of TLR4 and TLR7 were correlated with tumor differentiation but not FIGO stage or lymph node metastasis (P > 0.05). Up-regulation of TLR9 was correlated with lymph node metastasis (P < 0.05) but not tumor differentiation or FIGO stage (P > 0.05). We also analyzed the correlation between the expressions of TLRs and HPV16 infection and found that the expressions of TLR4 and TLR9 significantly correlated with HPV16 infection in CIN (r = 7.434, P = 0.006; r = 7.123, P = 0.008) and CSCC (r = 6.423, P = 0.001; r = 8.478, P = 0.004), whereas the expression of TLR3 was not significantly different in any of the three groups and had no significant correlation with HPV16 infection. Our results suggest that high expression of TLR4, TLR7, and TLR9 may play important roles in the development and progression of CIN and CSCC in Uighur women, and the expressions of TLR4 and TLR9 can be up-regulated by HPV16 infection.
Functional interaction of heat shock protein 90 and Beclin 1 modulates Toll-like receptor-mediated autophagy.	Autophagy is one of the downstream effector mechanisms for elimination of intracellular microbes following activation of the Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Although the detailed molecular mechanism for this cellular process is still unclear, Beclin 1, a key molecule for autophagy, has been suggested to play a role. Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is a molecular chaperone that regulates the stability of signaling proteins. Herein, we show that Hsp90 forms a complex with Beclin 1 through an evolutionarily conserved domain to maintain the stability of Beclin 1. In monocytic cells, geldanamycin (GA), an Hsp90 inhibitor, effectively promoted proteasomal degradation of Beclin 1 in a concentration-dependent (EC(50) 100 nM) and time-dependent (t(50) 2 h) manner. In contrast, KNK437/Hsp inhibitor I had no effect. Hsp90 specifically interacted with Beclin 1 but not with other adapter proteins in the TLR signalsome. Treatment of cells with GA inhibited TLR3- and TLR4-mediated autophagy. In addition, S. typhimurium infection-induced autophagy was blocked by GA treatment. This further suggested a role of the Hsp90/Beclin 1 in controlling autophagy in response to microbial infections. Taken together, our data revealed that by maintaining the homeostasis of Beclin 1, Hsp90 plays a novel role in TLR-mediated autophagy.
Rhinovirus 16-induced IFN-α and IFN-β are deficient in bronchoalveolar lavage cells in asthmatic patients.	Asthmatic patients have defective rhinovirus-induced IFN-β and IFN-λ production from bronchial epithelial cells and IFN-λ from bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells. Whether bronchoalveolar lavage cells have defective type I interferon responses to rhinovirus is unknown, as are mechanisms explaining defective rhinovirus interferon induction in asthmatic patients.
Presensitizing with a Toll-like receptor 3 ligand impairs CD8 T-cell effector differentiation and IL-33 responsiveness.	The synthetic double-stranded RNA poly(I:C) is commonly used as an adjuvant to boost CD8 T-cell function; however, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)] can also suppress autoimmune disease. The mechanism by which a single adjuvant achieves two distinct immunoregulatory roles is unknown. Although it is clear that coadministration of poly(I:C) with antigen elicits strong adjuvant effects in mice, we found that poly(I:C) injection before antigen substantially reduced antigen-dependent CD8 T-cell responses. Notably, CD8 T cells sensitized in poly(I:C)-pretreated mice failed to fully up-regulate IL-33R (ST2), which led to impaired T-cell receptor-independent responses to IL-33. In contrast, nonsensitized effector CD8 T cells responded robustly to IL-33 using a two-signal cytokine mechanism. During an acute lung response to Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin, peripheral injection of poly(I:C) manifested a suppressive process by inhibiting the differentiation of both antigen- and IL-33-responsive CD8 effectors systemically. These findings highlight that early exposure to double-stranded RNA reverses its role as an adjuvant and, importantly, prevents IL-33R up-regulation on CD8 effector T cells to dampen inflammation.
Elevated toll-like receptor 3 inhibits pancreatic β-cell proliferation through G1 phase cell cycle arrest.	Activation of the innate and acquired immune systems plays an important role in chronic inflammatory diseases and conditions such as obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus and atherosclerosis, with additional roles in regulation of cell proliferation and survival. Here, we provide evidence that TLR3 can respond to nutrient signals and induce loss of β-cell mass through induction of G1 cycle arrest. Activation of TLR3 by polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly (I:C)] was shown to trigger the decline of cyclin D1/2 protein levels in pancreatic β-cell lines, which could be reversed by the proteasome inhibitor MG132. P38 was also found to interfere with this degradation which may be associated with G1 cycle arrest. Moreover, inhibitory effects of TLR3 on β-cell growth were supported by gene silencing of TRIF, which could inhibit p38 activity in response to poly (I:C) stimuli. These results support a role for TLR3 in β-cell mass loss in metabolic surplus and raise the possibility that TRIF/p38 signaling may be involved in G1 phase cycle arrest through ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent degradation of cyclin D.
Inflammatory chemokine expression via Toll-like receptor 3 signaling in normal human mesangial cells.	The innate and adaptive immune systems have been reported to play an important role in the pathogenesis of glomerular diseases. Since viral infections may trigger the development of inflammatory renal disease or the worsening of preexisting renal disease, recent studies have focused on the involvement of toll-like receptors (TLRs) and their signaling pathways in the inflammatory processes of glomerular cells. Viral double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) can activate not only TLR3 located within intracellular endosomes but also retinoic-acid-inducible-gene-I- (RIG-I-) like helicase receptors located within the cytosol. RIG-I and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) are members of the RNA helicase family in the cytosol, and both act as pathogen recognition receptors. The activation of TLRs and their downstream immune responses can be induced by both infectious pathogens and noninfectious stimuli such as endogenous ligands, and this mechanism may be involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune renal diseases. However, there are few data on the interaction between TLR3, MDA5, and RIG-I in autoimmune glomerular diseases. Based on our recent experimental studies using cultured normal human mesangial cells (MCs), we found that novel TLR3-mediated signaling pathways in MCs may be involved in the pathogenesis of glomerular diseases. In the present paper, we summarize our recent findings. 
Mannan binding lectin attenuates double-stranded RNA-mediated TLR3 activation and innate immunity.	Mannan binding lectin (MBL) functions as a pattern recognition molecule (PRM) which is able to initiate complement activation. Here, we characterize a previously unrecognized attribute of MBL as a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding protein capable of modifying Toll like receptor 3 (TLR3) activation. MBL interacts with poly(I:C) and suppresses poly(I:C)-induced activation of TLR3 pathways and subsequent cytokine production. In addition, MBL binds to TLR3 directly. Surprisingly, disrupting the interaction between MBL and complement receptor 1 (CR1) or restraining the traffic of MBL to phagosome reversed the MBL limited TLR3 activation. We demonstrate the importance of MBL guided ligands intracellular localization, emphasizing the significance of understanding the dynamics of TLR agonists complexed with MBL or other PRMs inside the cell in immune defense. 
Multiple roles of the coagulation protease cascade during virus infection.	The coagulation cascade is activated during viral infections. This response may be part of the host defense system to limit spread of the pathogen. However, excessive activation of the coagulation cascade can be deleterious. In fact, inhibition of the tissue factor/factor VIIa complex reduced mortality in a monkey model of Ebola hemorrhagic fever. Other studies showed that incorporation of tissue factor into the envelope of herpes simplex virus increases infection of endothelial cells and mice. Furthermore, binding of factor X to adenovirus serotype 5 enhances infection of hepatocytes but also increases the activation of the innate immune response to the virus. Coagulation proteases activate protease-activated receptors (PARs). Interestingly, we and others found that PAR1 and PAR2 modulate the immune response to viral infection. For instance, PAR1 positively regulates TLR3-dependent expression of the antiviral protein interferon β, whereas PAR2 negatively regulates expression during coxsackievirus group B infection. These studies indicate that the coagulation cascade plays multiple roles during viral infections.
The effect of types I and III interferons on adrenocortical cells and its possible implications for autoimmune Addison's disease.	Autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD) is caused by selective destruction of the hormone-producing cells of the adrenal cortex. As yet, little is known about the potential role played by environmental factors in this process. Type I and/or type III interferons (IFNs) are signature responses to virus infections, and have also been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune endocrine disorders such as type 1 diabetes and autoimmune thyroiditis. Transient development of AAD and exacerbation of established or subclinical disease, as well as the induction of autoantibodies associated with AAD, have been reported following therapeutic administration of type I IFNs. We therefore hypothesize that exposure to such IFNs could render the adrenal cortex susceptible to autoimmune attack in genetically predisposed individuals. In this study, we investigated possible immunopathological effects of type I and type III IFNs on adrenocortical cells in relation to AAD. Both types I and III IFNs exerted significant cytotoxicity on NCI-H295R adrenocortical carcinoma cells and potentiated IFN-γ- and polyinosine-polycytidylic acid [poly (I : C)]-induced chemokine secretion. Furthermore, we observed increased expression of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules and up-regulation of 21-hydroxylase, the primary antigenic target in AAD. We propose that these combined effects could serve to initiate or aggravate an ongoing autoimmune response against the adrenal cortex in AAD. 
The early activation of toll-like receptor (TLR)-3 initiates kidney injury after ischemia and reperfusion.	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is one of the most important complications in hospitalized patients and its pathomechanisms are not completely elucidated. We hypothesize that signaling via toll-like receptor (TLR)-3, a receptor that is activated upon binding of double-stranded nucleotides, might play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of AKI following ischemia and reperfusion (IR). Male adult C57Bl6 wild-type (wt) mice and TLR-3 knock-out (-/-) mice were subjected to 30 minutes bilateral selective clamping of the renal artery followed by reperfusion for 30 min 2.5h and 23.5 hours or subjected to sham procedures. TLR-3 down-stream signaling was activated already within 3 h of ischemia and reperfusion in post-ischemic kidneys of wt mice lead to impaired blood perfusion followed by a strong pro-inflammatory response with significant neutrophil invasion. In contrast, this effect was absent in TLR-3-/- mice. Moreover, the quick TLR-3 activation resulted in kidney damage that was histomorphologically associated with significantly increased apoptosis and necrosis rates in renal tubules of wt mice. This finding was confirmed by increased kidney injury marker NGAL in wt mice and a better preserved renal perfusion after IR in TLR-3-/- mice than wt mice. Overall, the absence of TLR-3 is associated with lower cumulative kidney damage and maintained renal blood perfusion within the first 24 hours of reperfusion. Thus, we conclude that TLR-3 seems to participate in the pathogenesis of early acute kidney injury. 
Meet the terminator: The phosphatase PP2A puts brakes on IRF-3 activation.	Cellular interferon response to microbial infection is transient. In a recent paper in Immunity, Long et al. (2014) identify protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) as a deactivator of phospho-interferon regulatory factor 3, the key transcription factor for interferon synthesis, thus providing one basis for the observed transiency.
