Determination of tolperisone enantiomers in plasma and their disposition in rats.	A stereoselective assay for the determination of tolperisone enantiomers in plasma by high performance liquid chromatography was developed. Calibration curves obtained for the enantiomers were linear over plasma concentrations of 0.1-3.0 micrograms/ml with a detection limit of 20 ng/ml. Following intravenous bolus administration of 10 mg/kg of racemic tolperisone to rats, stereoselective disposition of tolperisone enantiomers was observed, and plasma concentrations were significantly higher for l-tolperisone than for d-tolperisone at 5, 15 and 30 min after administration. When either enantiomer was administered alone to rats, both enantiomers were found in plasma, indicating that a mutual chiral inversion occurs in the body.
Determination of tolperisone in human plasma by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry for clinical application.	We have developed and validated a simple, rapid, and sensitive liquid chromatography analytical method employing tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the determination of tolperisone, a centrally acting muscle relaxant, in human plasma. After liquid-liquid extraction with methyl t-butyl ether, chromatographic separation of tolperisone was performed using a reversed-phase Luna C(18) column (2.0mm×50mm, 5μm particles) with a mobile phase of 10mM ammonium formate buffer (pH 3.5) - methanol (12:88, v/v) and quantified by tandem mass detection in ESI positive ion mode. The flow rate of the mobile phase was 250μL/min and the retention times of tolperisone and the internal standard (IS, dibucaine) were both 0.6min. The calibration curves were linear over a range of 0.5-300ng/mL (r>0.999). The lower limit of quantification, using 200μL human plasma, was 0.5ng/mL. The mean accuracy and precision for intra- and inter-day validation of tolperisone were within acceptable limits. The LC-MS/MS method reported here showed improved sensitivity for quantification of tolperisone in human plasma compared with previously described analytical methods. Lastly, the validated method was successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study in humans.
