Noninvasive laser-induced photoacoustic tomography for structural and functional in vivo imaging of the brain.	Imaging techniques based on optical contrast analysis can be used to visualize dynamic and functional properties of the nervous system via optical signals resulting from changes in blood volume, oxygen consumption and cellular swelling associated with brain physiology and pathology. Here we report in vivo noninvasive transdermal and transcranial imaging of the structure and function of rat brains by means of laser-induced photoacoustic tomography (PAT). The advantage of PAT over pure optical imaging is that it retains intrinsic optical contrast characteristics while taking advantage of the diffraction-limited high spatial resolution of ultrasound. We accurately mapped rat brain structures, with and without lesions, and functional cerebral hemodynamic changes in cortical blood vessels around the whisker-barrel cortex in response to whisker stimulation. We also imaged hyperoxia- and hypoxia-induced cerebral hemodynamic changes. This neuroimaging modality holds promise for applications in neurophysiology, neuropathology and neurotherapy.
Time-series estimation of biological factors in optical diffusion tomography.	We apply state space estimation techniques to the time-varying reconstruction problem in optical tomography. We develop a stochastic model for describing the evolution of quasi-sinusoidal medical signals such as the heartbeat, assuming these are represented as a known frequency with randomly varying amplitude and phase. We use the extended Kalman filter in combination with spatial regularization techniques to reconstruct images from highly under-determined time-series data. This system also naturally segments activity belonging to different biological processes. We present reconstructions of simulated data and of real data recorded from the human motor cortex (Franceschini et al 2000 Optics Express 6 49-57). It is argued that the application of these time-series techniques improves both the fidelity and temporal resolution of reconstruction in optical tomography.
First clinical evaluation of sagittal laser optical tomography for detection of synovitis in arthritic finger joints.	To identify classifiers in images obtained with sagittal laser optical tomography (SLOT) that can be used to distinguish between joints affected and not affected by synovitis.
A modelling error approach for the estimation of optical absorption in the presence of anisotropies.	Optical tomography is an emerging method for non-invasive imaging of human tissues using near-infrared light. Generally, the tissue is assumed isotropic, but this may not always be true. In this paper, we present a method for the estimation of optical absorption coefficient allowing the background to be anisotropic. To solve the forward problem, we model the light propagation in tissue using an anisotropic diffusion equation. The inverse problem consists of the estimation of the absorption coefficient based on boundary measurements. Generally, the background anisotropy cannot be assumed to be known. We treat the uncertainties in the background anisotropy parameter values as modelling error, and include this in our model and reconstruction. We present numerical examples based on simulated data. For reference, examples using an isotropic inversion scheme are also included. The estimates are qualitatively different for the two methods.
Elastic scattering spectroscopy for intraoperative determination of sentinel lymph node status in the breast.	The ability to provide the best treatment for breast cancer depends on establishing whether or not the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes under the arm. Conventional assessment requires tissue removal, preparation, and expert microscopic interpretation. In this study, elastic scattering spectroscopy (ESS) is used to interrogate excised nodes with pulsed broadband illumination and collection of the backscattered light. Multiple spectra are taken from 139 excised nodes (53 containing cancer) in 68 patients, and spectral analysis is performed using a combination of principal component analysis and linear discriminant analysis to correlate the spectra with conventional histology. The data are divided into training and test sets. In test sets containing spectra from only normal nodes and nodes with complete replacement by cancer, ESS detects the spectra from cancerous nodes with 84% sensitivity and 91% specificity (per-spectrum analysis). In test sets that included normal nodes and nodes with partial as well as complete replacement by cancer, ESS detects the nodes with cancer with an average sensitivity of 75% and specificity of 89% (per-node analysis). These results are comparable to those from conventional touch imprint cytology and frozen section histology, but do not require an expert pathologist for interpretation. With automation of the technique, results could be made available almost instantaneously. ESS is a promising technique for the rapid, accurate, and straightforward detection of metastases in excised sentinel lymph nodes.
Bulk optical properties and tissue components in the female breast from multiwavelength time-resolved optical mammography.	We present the results of a clinical study about optical properties and bulk composition of the female breast. The clinical study involved more than 150 subjects that underwent optical mammography. A multiwavelength time-resolved mammograph designed to collect time-resolved transmittance images of the breast at different wavelengths in the range 637 to 980 nm is used to this purpose. From the absorption spectrum of the breast, the concentrations of the main tissue constituents, i.e., oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin, lipid, and water, are obtained for a subset of 113 breasts. The lipid content of breast is estimated for the first time on such a large number of subjects. The total hemoglobin concentration, blood oxygen saturation, lipid, and water content of breast is correlated to demographic information collected during the trial. As expected, breast optical properties and components undergo huge variations among different subjects. Different constituents, however, show interesting correlation with clinical parameters such as age, breast size, body mass index, and mammographic parenchymal pattern. These results suggest that optical measurements on breasts can be exploited to obtain relevant information on breast tissue composition.
Spectroscopic time-resolved diffuse reflectance and transmittance measurements of the female breast at different interfiber distances.	The first, to our knowledge, in-vivo broadband spectroscopic characterization of breast tissue using different interfiber distances as well as transmittance measurements is presented. Absorption and scattering properties are measured on six healthy subjects, using time-resolved diffuse spectroscopy and an inverse model based on the diffusion equation. Wavelength-tunable picosecond-pulse lasers and time-correlated single-photon counting detection are employed, enabling fully spectroscopic measurements in the range 610 to 1040 nm. Characterization of the absorption and reduced scattering coefficients of breast tissue is made with the aim of investigating individual variations, as well as variations due to different measurement geometries. Diffuse reflectance measurements at different interfiber distances (2, 3, and 4 cm) are performed, as well as measurements in transmittance mode, meaning that different sampling volumes are involved. The results show a large variation in the absorption and scattering properties depending on the subject, correlating mainly with the water versus lipid content of the breast. Intrasubject variations, due to different interfiber distances or transmittance modes, correlate with the known structures of the breast, but these variations are small compared to the subject-to-subject variation. The intrasubject variations are larger for the scattering data than the absorption data; this is consistent with different spatial localization of the measurements of these parameters, which is explained by the photon migration theory.
Near-infrared imaging of the human breast: complementing hemoglobin concentration maps with oxygenation images.	We have previously reported a comparison between edge-corrected near-infrared optical mammograms and those that have undergone a further image-processing step based on a spatial second derivative. In this work, we go a step further by combining the second-derivative images from four wavelengths (690, 750, 788, and 856 nm) to obtain oxygenation-index images. While the spatial second derivative improves contrast and allows for visibility of fine structures in the images, thereby improving the sensitivity to tumor detection, additional information is needed to avoid false-positive results. The oxygenation-index images are introduced to address this issue. Oxygenation information may help discriminate benign from malignant breast lesions, thereby effectively complementing single-wavelength optical mammograms that display optically dense regions within the breast with high sensitivity.
Improved quantification of small objects in near-infrared diffuse optical tomography.	Diffuse optical tomography allows quantification of hemoglobin, oxygen saturation, and water in tissue, and the fidelity in this quantification is dependent on the accuracy of optical properties determined during image reconstruction. In this study, a three-step algorithm is proposed and validated that uses the standard Newton minimization with Levenberg-Marquardt regularization as the first step. The second step is a modification to the existing algorithm using a two-parameter regularization to allow lower damping in a region of interest as compared to background. This second stage allows the recovery of the actual size of an inclusion. A region-based reconstruction is the final third step, which uses the estimated size and position information from step 2 to yield quantitatively accurate average values for the optical parameters. The algorithm is tested on simulated and experimental data and is found to be insensitive to object contrast and position. The percentage error between the true and the average recovered value for the absorption coefficient in test images is reduced from 47 to 27% for a 10-mm inclusion, from 38 to 13% for a 15-mm anomaly, and from 28 to 5.5% for a 20-mm heterogeneity. Simulated data with absorbing and scattering heterogeneities of 15 mm diam located in different positions show recovery with less than 15% error in absorption and 6% error in reduced scattering coefficients. The algorithm is successfully applied to clinical data from a subject with a breast abnormality to yield quantitatively increased absorption coefficients, which enhances the contrast to 3.8 compared to 1.23 previously.
Direct imaging through scattering media by use of efficient third-harmonic generation in organic materials.	We report on real-time, time-gated, direct imaging through scattering media with an attenuation of 14 mean-free paths by use of third-harmonic generation in the eye-safe and telecommunication-compatible near-IR spectral region (1550 nm).
Experimental evaluation of an anisotropic scattering model of a slab geometry.	A model has been developed based on random walk theory that allows the diffusion of light along a principal axis to differ from that in orthogonal directions. We present expressions that describe the time-resolved intensity measured across a slab and on the surface of a semi-infinite medium for a principal axis oriented parallel or perpendicular to the surface. The model of time-resolved transmittance is compared with experimental data acquired by use of a phantom consisting of wax fibers arranged within a solid cube of resin. It is shown that a single set of optical parameters is sufficient to model the experimental measurements acquired across all three orientations of the cube.
A general framework for nonlinear multigrid inversion.	A variety of new imaging modalities, such as optical diffusion tomography, require the inversion of a forward problem that is modeled by the solution to a three-dimensional partial differential equation. For these applications, image reconstruction is particularly difficult because the forward problem is both nonlinear and computationally expensive to evaluate. In this paper, we propose a general framework for nonlinear multigrid inversion that is applicable to a wide variety of inverse problems. The multigrid inversion algorithm results from the application of recursive multigrid techniques to the solution of optimization problems arising from inverse problems. The method works by dynamically adjusting the cost functionals at different scales so that they are consistent with, and ultimately reduce, the finest scale cost functional. In this way, the multigrid inversion algorithm efficiently computes the solution to the desired fine-scale inversion problem. Importantly, the new algorithm can greatly reduce computation because both the forward and inverse problems are more coarsely discretized at lower resolutions. An application of our method to Bayesian optical diffusion tomography with a generalized Gaussian Markov random-field image prior model shows the potential for very large computational savings. Numerical data also indicates robust convergence with a range of initialization conditions for this nonconvex optimization problem.
Reconstruction of spatially inhomogeneous dielectric tensors through optical tomography.	A method to reconstruct weakly anisotropic inhomogeneous dielectric tensors inside a transparent medium is proposed. The mathematical theory of integral geometry is cast into a workable framework that allows the full determination of dielectric tensor fields by scalar Radon inversions of the polarization transformation data obtained from six planar tomographic scanning cycles. Furthermore, a careful derivation of the usual equations of integrated photoelasticity in terms of heuristic length scales of the material inhomogeneity and anisotropy is provided, resulting in a self-contained account about the reconstruction of arbitrary three-dimensional, weakly anisotropic dielectric tensor fields.
Simulation of voltage-sensitive optical signals in three-dimensional slabs of cardiac tissue: application to transillumination and coaxial imaging methods.	Voltage-sensitive dyes are an important tool in visualizing electrical activity in cardiac tissue. Until today, they have mainly been applied in cardiac electrophysiology to subsurface imaging. In the present study, we assess different imaging methods used in optical tomography with respect to their effectiveness in visualizing 3D cardiac activity. To achieve this goal, we simulate optical signals produced by excitation fronts initiated at different depths inside the myocardial wall and compare their properties for various imaging modes. Specifically, we consider scanning and broad-field illumination, including trans- and epi-illumination. We focus on the lateral optical resolution and signal intensity, as a function of the source depth. Optical diffusion theory is applied to derive a computationally efficient approximation of the point-spread function and to predict voltage-sensitive signals. Computations were performed both for fluorescent and absorptive voltage-sensitive dyes. Among all the above-mentioned methods, fluorescent coaxial scanning yields the best resolution (<2.5 mm) and gives the most information about the intramural cardiac activity.
Diffuse optical tomography using intensity measurements and the a priori acquired regions of interest: theory and simulations.	Light transmission data collected around an object show large variation with source-detector separation owing to the presence of single or multiple inhomogeneous regions in the object. This variation in the measured intensity is made use of to reconstruct regions of the inhomogeneous inclusions. In addition, it is possible to select a set of data from the above which is most likely least affected by the presence of the inhomogeneity, and estimate reasonably accurately the background optical properties from it. The reconstructed region is found to always contain the inhomogeneity and is of size approximately 140% by area of the inhomogeneity. With the regions to be reconstructed a priori known, a model-based iterative reconstruction procedure for reconstructing the optical properties of the region converged five times faster than without such information. It is also shown that whereas for the full object, a view-based propagation-backpropagation reconstruction procedure failed to converge, owing to large underdeterminacy of the problem, a smaller problem attempting to reconstruct a priori specified regions of interest converged and did so faster than a non-view-based approach for similar objects. Reconstruction results are presented from simulated transmitted intensity data from the following objects with regions of inhomogeneity in both absorption and scattering: (i) single centrally located inhomogeneity, (ii) two off-centred inhomogeneous regions of equal size and contrast (iii) two off-centred inhomogeneous regions of unequal size and equal contrast and (iv) two off-centred inhomogeneous regions of unequal size and contrast. Whereas the model-based iterative image reconstruction procedure gave good convergence in the first, second and third cases, in the fourth case the reconstructions failed to recover the exact numerical value of the optical properties in the higher contrast region.
Hybrid radiative-transfer-diffusion model for optical tomography.	A hybrid radiative-transfer-diffusion model for optical tomography is proposed. The light propagation is modeled with the radiative-transfer equation in the vicinity of the laser sources, and the diffusion approximation is used elsewhere in the domain. The solution of the radiative-transfer equation is used to construct a Dirichlet boundary condition for the diffusion approximation on a fictitious interface within the object. This boundary condition constitutes an approximative distributed source model for the diffusion approximation in the remaining area. The results from the proposed approach are compared with finite-element solutions of the radiative-transfer equation and the diffusion approximation and Monte Carlo simulation. The results show that the method improves the accuracy of the forward model compared with the conventional diffusion model.
Spatial deconvolution technique to improve the accuracy of reconstructed three-dimensional diffuse optical tomographic images.	A straightforward spatial deconvolution operation is presented that seeks to invert the information-blurring property of first-order perturbation algorithms for diffuse optical tomography (DOT) image reconstruction. The method that was developed to generate these deconvolving operators, or filters, was conceptually based on the frequency-encoding process used in magnetic resonance imaging. The computation of an image-correcting filter involves the solution of a large system of linear equations, in which known true distributions and the corresponding recovered distributions are compared. Conversely, application of a filter involves only a simple matrix multiplication. Simulation results show that application of this deconvolution operation to three-dimensional DOT images reconstructed by the solution of a first-order perturbation equation (Born approximation) can yield marked enhancement of image quality. In the examples considered, use of image-correcting filters produces obvious improvements in image quality, in terms of both location and mirco(a) of the inclusions. The displacements between the true and recovered locations of an inclusion's centroid location are as small as 1 mm, in an 8-cm-diameter medium with 1.5-cm-diameter inclusions, and the peak value of the recovered micro(a) for the inclusions deviates from the true value by as little as 5%.
Time-domain scanning optical mammography: I. Recording and assessment of mammograms of 154 patients.	Using a triple wavelength (670 nm, 785 nm, 843/884 nm) scanning laser-pulse mammograph we recorded craniocaudal and mediolateral projection optical mammograms of 154 patients, suspected of having breast cancer. From distributions of times of flight of photons recorded at typically 1000-2000 scan positions, optical mammograms were derived displaying (inverse) photon counts in selected time windows, absorption and reduced scattering coefficients or total haemoglobin concentration and blood oxygen saturation. Optical mammograms were analysed by comparing them with x-ray and MR mammograms, including results of histopathology, attributing a subjective visibility score to each tumour assessed. Out of 102 histologically confirmed tumours, 72 tumours were detected retrospectively in both optical projection mammograms, in addition 20 cases in one projection only, whereas 10 tumours were not detectable in any projection. Tumour contrast and contrast-to-noise ratios of mammograms of the same breast, but derived from measured DTOFs by various methods were quantitatively compared. On average, inverse photon counts in selected time windows, including total photon counts, provide highest tumour contrast and contrast-to-noise ratios. Based on the results of the present study we developed a multi-wavelength, multi-projection scanning time-domain optical mammograph with improved spectral and spatial (angular) sampling, that allows us to record entire mammograms simultaneously at various offsets between the transmitting fibre and receiving fibre bundle and provides first results for illustration.
Time-domain scanning optical mammography: II. Optical properties and tissue parameters of 87 carcinomas.	Within a clinical trial on scanning time-domain optical mammography reported on in a companion publication (part I), craniocaudal and mediolateral projection optical mammograms were recorded from 154 patients, suspected of having breast cancer. Here we report on in vivo optical properties of the subset of 87 histologically validated carcinomas which were visible in optical mammograms recorded at two or three near-infrared wavelengths. Tumour absorption and reduced scattering coefficients were derived from distributions of times of flight of photons recorded at the tumour site employing the model of diffraction of photon density waves by a spherical inhomogeneity, located in an otherwise homogeneous tissue slab. Effective tumour radii, taken from pathology, and tumour location along the compression direction, deduced from off-axis optical scans of the tumour region, were included in the analysis as prior knowledge, if available. On average, tumour absorption coefficients exceeded those of surrounding healthy breast tissue by a factor of about 2.5 (670 nm), whereas tumour reduced scattering coefficients were larger by about 20% (670 nm). From absorption coefficients at 670 nm and 785 nm total haemoglobin concentration and blood oxygen saturation were deduced for tumours and surrounding healthy breast tissue. Apart from a few outliers total haemoglobin concentration was observed to be systematically larger in tumours compared to healthy breast tissue. In contrast, blood oxygen saturation was found to be a poor discriminator for tumours and healthy breast tissue; both median values of blood oxygen saturation are the same within their statistical uncertainties. However, the ratio of total haemoglobin concentration over blood oxygen saturation further improves discrimination between tumours and healthy breast tissue. For 29 tumours detected in optical mammograms recorded at three wavelengths (670 nm, 785 nm, 843 nm or 884 nm), scatter power was derived from transport scattering coefficients. Scatter power of tumours tends to be larger than that of surrounding healthy breast tissue, yet the 95% confidence intervals of both medians overlap.
Time-resolved optical mammography between 637 and 985 nm: clinical study on the detection and identification of breast lesions.	The first time-resolved optical mammograph operating beyond 900 nm was tested in a retrospective clinical study involving 194 patients with malignant and benign lesions, to investigate the diagnostic potential for the detection and characterization of breast lesions. For the first part of the study (101 patients with 114 lesions), the system was operated at 683, 785, 913 and 975 nm. Subsequently, to improve the spectral content of optical images, the number of wavelengths was increased (up to 7) and the spectral range was extended (637-985 nm). Late gated intensity and scattering images provide sensitivity to tissue composition (oxy- and deoxyhaemoglobin, water and lipids) and physiology (total haemoglobin content and oxygen saturation), as well as to structural changes. Tumours are typically identified because of the strong blood absorption at short wavelengths (637-685 nm), while cysts are characterized by low scattering, leading to a detection rate of approximately 80% for both lesion types, when detection is required in both cranio-caudal and oblique views. The detection rate for other benign lesions, such as fibroadenomas, is presently much lower (<40%). The effectiveness of the technique in localizing and identifying different lesion types was analysed as a function of various parameters (lesion size, compressed breast thickness, age, body mass index, breast parenchymal pattern). The possibility that physiologic changes due to the development of a malignant lesion could affect the entire breast was investigated. The capacity to assess the density of breast based on the average scattering properties was also tested.
Characterization of female breast lesions from multi-wavelength time-resolved optical mammography.	Characterization of both malignant and benign lesions in the female breast is presented as the result of a clinical study that involved more than 190 subjects in the framework of the OPTIMAMM European project. All the subjects underwent optical mammography, by means of a multi-wavelength time-resolved mammograph, in the range 637-985 nm. Optical images were processed by applying a perturbation model, relying on a nonlinear approximation of time-resolved transmittance curves in the presence of an inclusion, with the aim of estimating the major tissue constituents (i.e. oxy- and deoxy-haemoglobin, lipid and water) and structural parameters (linked to dimension and density of the scatterer centres) for both the lesion area and the surrounding tissue. The critical factors for the application of the perturbation model on in vivo data are also discussed. Forty-six malignant and 68 benign lesions were analysed. A subset of 32 cancers, 40 cysts and 14 fibroadenomas were found reliable for the perturbation analysis. For cancers, we show a higher blood content with respect to the surrounding tissue, while cysts are characterized by a lower concentration of scattering centres with respect to the surrounding tissue. For fibroadenomas, the low number of cases does not allow any definite conclusions.
Optical tomography of the breast using a multi-channel time-resolved imager.	A time-resolved optical tomography system has been used to generate cross-sectional images of the human breast. Images are reconstructed using an iterative, nonlinear algorithm and measurements of mean photon flight time relative to those acquired on a homogeneous reference phantom. Thirty-eight studies have been performed on three healthy volunteers and 21 patients with a variety of breast lesions including cancer. We have successfully detected 17 out of 19 lesions, and shown that optical images of the healthy breast of the same volunteer display a heterogeneity which is repeatable over a period of months. However, results also indicate that the lack of accurate quantitation of optical parameters and limited morphological information limits the ability to characterize different types of lesions and distinguish benign from malignant tissues. Drawbacks of our current methodology and plans for overcoming them are discussed.
Reconstruction of optical properties of phantom and breast lesion in vivo from paraxial scanning data.	We report on the reconstruction of absorption and reduced scattering coefficients of breast tissue in vivo of a patient with mastopathic disease. Distributions of times of flight of photons through the compressed breast were recorded by paraxial scanning. From data measured at four different source-detector offsets optical properties were reconstructed within the linear Rytov approximation by a fast inverse Fourier space method. Low-pass filtering in Fourier space was employed to remove excessive noise from high spatial frequency components and to reduce the computational efforts by a factor of 3, typically. The mammograms displaying reconstructed absorption and reduced scattering coefficients were compared with projection mammograms either obtained by time-window analysis of experimental data or based on average absorption and reduced scattering coefficients which were derived from measured temporal point spread functions within a simple homogeneous model. All inhomogeneities which were visible in the projection mammograms and which could be associated with specific breast tissue compartments could be correlated with inhomogeneities in the reconstructed absorption coefficient. In particular, the mastopathic disease was detected in the reconstructed absorption mammogram. In order to assess reliability of optical properties reconstructed from data obtained by paraxial scanning, corresponding phantom experiments and reconstructions of phantom optical properties were carried out. Because of the limited angular range sampled by the in vivo and phantom measurements, considerable blurring of the absorption coefficient occurs along the compression direction, compromising longitudinal resolution.
Quantitative point source photoacoustic inversion formulas for scattering and absorbing media.	We present here an expression for the photoacoustic contribution of an optical point source in a diffusive and absorbing medium. By using this measurement as a reference, we present a direct inversion formula that recovers the absorption map quantitatively, at the same time accounting for instrumental factors such as the source strength, the shape of the optical pulse, and the impulse response and finite size of the transducers. We further validate this expression through accurate numerical simulations showing that the absorption map is recovered quantitatively in the presence of a rotating geometry. We finally discuss how the presented solutions for point sources within the photoacoustic problem enable the use of concurrent fluorescence and ultrasound measurements as appropriate for a hybrid tomographic system. The proposed system could retrieve absorption information using photoacoustic measurements, and use these data to more accurately describe the fluorescence problem and improve reconstruction fidelity.
Three-dimensional ultrasound tomography--preliminairy report]	Three-dimensional ultrasound tomography of the eye is a new advanced technique of ocular ultrasonography. The aim of this work was to present a new interesting ultrasound unit with possibility of three-dimensional ultrasound tomography, after half year experience with this system. The article describes scanning techniques using acommercial 3-D ultrasound system (OTI-Scan 1000) and presents how to assess the dimensions of intraocular structures anddocument them volumetrically.
Fluorescence molecular tomography in the presence of background fluorescence.	Fluorescence molecular tomography is an emerging imaging technique that resolves the bio-distribution of engineered fluorescent probes developed for in vivo reporting of specific cellular and sub-cellular targets. The method can detect fluorochromes in picomole amounts or less, imaged through entire animals, but the detection sensitivity and imaging performance drop in the presence of background, non-specific fluorescence. In this study, we carried out a theoretical and an experimental investigation on the effect of background fluorescence on the measured signal and on the tomographic reconstruction. We further examined the performance of three subtraction methods based on physical models of photon propagation, using experimental data on phantoms and small animals. We show that the data pre-processing with subtraction schemes can improve image quality and quantification when non-specific background florescence is present.
Fluorescence tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of myocardial macrophage infiltration in infarcted myocardium in vivo.	Fluorescence imaging of the heart is currently limited to invasive ex vivo or in vitro applications. We hypothesized that the adaptation of advanced transillumination and tomographic techniques would allow noninvasive fluorescence images of the heart to be acquired in vivo and be coregistered with in vivo cardiac magnetic resonance images.
Frequency-domain sensitivity analysis for small imaging domains using the equation of radiative transfer.	Optical tomography of small imaging domains holds great promise as the signal-to-noise ratio is usually high, and the achievable spatial resolution is much better than in large imaging domains. Emerging applications range from the imaging of joint diseases in human fingers to monitoring tumor growth or brain activity in small animals. In these cases, the diameter of the tissue under investigation is typically smaller than 3 cm, and the optical path length is only a few scattering mean-free paths. It is well known that under these conditions the widely applied diffusion approximation to the equation of radiative transfer (ERT) is of limited applicability. To accurately model light propagation in these small domains, the ERT has to be solved directly. We use the frequency-domain ERT to perform a sensitivity study for small imaging domains. We found optimal source-modulation frequencies for which variations in optical properties, size, and location of a tissue inhomogeneity lead to maximal changes in the amplitude and phase of the measured signal. These results will be useful in the design of experiments and optical tomographic imaging systems that probe small tissue volumes.
Significance of tissue anisotropy in optical tomography of the infant brain.	We study the effect of tissue anisotropy in optical tomography of neonates. A Monte Carlo method capable of modeling photon migration in an arbitrary 3D tissue model with spatially varying optical properties and tissue anisotropy is used for simulating measurements of neonates. Anatomical and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging of neonates are used for creating the anatomical models. We find that tissue anisotropy affects the measured signal and the pattern of sensitivity in optical measurements.
Image correction algorithm for functional three-dimensional diffuse optical tomography brain imaging.	We outline a computationally efficient image correction algorithm, which we have applied to diffuse optical tomography (DOT) image time series derived from a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based brain model. Results show that the algorithm increases spatial resolution, decreases spatial bias, and only modestly reduces temporal accuracy for noise levels typically seen in experiment, and produces results comparable to image reconstructions that incorporate information from MRI priors. We demonstrate that this algorithm has robust performance in the presence of noise, background heterogeneity, irregular external and internal boundaries, and error in the initial guess. However, the algorithm introduces artifacts when the absorption and scattering coefficients of the reference medium are overestimated--a situation that is easily avoided in practice. The considered algorithm offers a practical approach to improving the quality of images from time-series DOT, even without the use of MRI priors.
Image correction scheme applied to functional diffuse optical tomography scattering images.	We have extended our investigation on the use of a linear algorithm for enhancing the accuracy of diffuse optical tomography (DOT) images, to include spatial maps of the diffusion coefficient. The results show that the corrected images are markedly improved in terms of estimated size, spatial resolution, two-object resolving power, and quantitative accuracy. These image-enhancing effects are significant at expected levels of diffusion-coefficient contrast in tissue and noise levels typical of experimental DOT data. Overall, the types and magnitudes of image-enhancing effects obtained here are qualitatively similar to those seen in previous studies on mu(a) perturbations. The implications for practical implementations of DOT time-series imaging are discussed.
Infrared tomography: data distribution system and software development for real-time velocity measurement.	The data distribution system of this project is divided into two types, which are a Two-PC Image Reconstruction System and a Two-PC Velocity Measurement System. Each data distribution system is investigated to see whether the results' refreshing rate of the corresponding measurement can be greater than the rate obtained by using a single computer in the same measurement system for each application. Each system has its own flow control protocol for controlling how data is distributed within the system in order to speed up the data processing time. This can be done if two PCs work in parallel. The challenge of this project is to define the data flow process and critical timing during data packaging, transferring and extracting in between PCs. If a single computer is used as a data processing unit, a longer time is needed to produce a measurement result. This insufficient real-time result will cause problems in a feedback control process when applying the system in industrial plants. To increase the refreshing rate of the measurement result, an investigation on a data distribution system is performed to replace the existing data processing unit.
Dual channel optical tomographic imaging of leukocyte recruitment and protease activity in the healing myocardial infarct.	Inflammatory responses after myocardial infarction profoundly impact tissue repair. Yet, efficient tools to serially and noninvasively assess cellular and molecular functions in postinfarct inflammation are lacking. Here we use multichannel fluorescent molecular tomography (FMT) for spatiotemporal resolution of phagocytic and proteolytic activities mediated by macrophages and neutrophils in murine infarcts. We performed FMT imaging to compare the course of efficient and impaired healing in wild-type and FXIII-/- mice, respectively. Mice subjected to coronary ligation received simultaneous injections with Prosense-680, an activatable fluorescence sensor reporting on cathepsin activity, and CLIO-VT750, a magneto-fluorescent nanoparticle for imaging of phagocyte recruitment. On FMT, Prosense-680 infarct signal was 19-fold higher than background (P<0.05). Protease activity was higher in the infarcted lateral wall than in the remote, uninjured septum on ex vivo fluorescence reflectance imaging (contrast to noise ratio 118+/-24). CLIO-VT750 FMT signal coregistered with contrast enhancement in the hypokinetic infarct on MRI. Microscopic fluorescence signal colocalized with immunoreactive staining for cathepsin, macrophages and neutrophils. Flow cytometry of digested infarcts revealed monocytes/macrophages and neutrophils as the source of the fluorescence signal. Phagocytic activity peaked on day 6, and proteolytic activity peaked on day 4 after myocardial infarction. FMT detected impaired recruitment of phagocytes and protease activity in FXIII-/- mice (P<0.05). FMT is a promising noninvasive molecular imaging approach to characterize infarct healing. Spectrally resolved imaging agents allow for simultaneous assesment of key processes of in vivo cellular functions. Specifically, we show that in vivo FMT detects impaired healing in FXIII-/- mice.
Relationship between standard automated perimetry and HRT, OCT and GDx in normal, ocular hypertensive and glaucomatous subjects]	To determine the correlations between structural parameters of the optic nerve head and the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) obtained by using a Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II (HRT II), optic coherence tomography (OCT), and laser polarimetry (GDX-VCC) and the perimetric indices of standard automated perimetry (SAP) in normal, ocular hypertensive and glaucomatous subjects.
Image reconstruction in optical tomography in the presence of coupling errors.	Image reconstruction in optical tomography is a nonlinear and generally ill- posed inverse problem. Noise in the measured surface data can give rise to substantial artifacts in the recovered volume images of optical coefficients. Apart from random shot noise caused by the limited number of photons detected at the measurement site, another class of systematic noise is associated with losses specific to individual source and detector locations. A common cause for such losses in data acquisition systems based on fiber-optic light delivery is the imperfect coupling between the fiber tips and the skin of the patient because of air gaps or surface moisture. Thus the term coupling errors was coined for this type of data noise. However, source and detector specific errors can also occur in noncontact measurement systems not using fiber-optic delivery, for example, owing to local skin pigmentation, hair and hair follicles, or instrumentation calibration errors. Often it is not possible to quantify coupling effects in a way that allows us to remove them from the data or incorporate them into the light transport model. We present an alternative method of eliminating coupling errors by regarding the complex-valued coupling factors for each source and detector as unknowns in the reconstruction process and recovering them simultaneously with the images of absorption and scattering. Our method takes into account the possibility that coupling effects have an influence on both the amplitude and the phase shift of the measurements. Reconstructions from simulated and experimental phantom data are presented, which show that including the coupling coefficients in the reconstruction greatly improves the recovery of absorption and scattering images.
Image reconstruction scheme that combines modified Newton method and efficient initial guess estimation for optical tomography of finger joints.	What we believe to be a novel 3D diffuse optical tomography scheme is developed to reconstruct images of both absorption and scattering coefficients of finger joint systems. Compared with our previous reconstruction method, the improved 3D algorithm employs both modified Newton methods and an enhanced initial value optimization scheme to recover the optical properties of highly heterogeneous media. The developed approach is tested using simulated, phantom, and in vivo measurement data. The recovered results suggest that the improved approach is able to provide quantitatively better images than our previous algorithm for optical tomography reconstruction.
Tomographic bioluminescence imaging with varying boundary conditions.	Three-dimensional bioluminescence imaging is an emerging technique that can be used to monitor molecular events in intact living systems. The inverse problem of 3D bioluminescence imaging does not have a unique solution because it requires reconstruction of a 3D source function from a 2D one. A novel approach that addresses this problem with the aid of a simple experimental setup and solves the uniqueness problem of the solution for a monochromatic measurement set is suggested here. The approach is verified numerically by reconstructing bioluminescent objects of various shapes embedded inside highly scattering media, such as biologiçal tissue.
Evaluating the optic nerve and retinal nerve fibre layer: the roles of Heidelberg retina tomography, scanning laser polarimetry and optical coherence tomography.	For many years, ophthalmologists have looked at the optic nerve head to evaluate the status of glaucoma. Clinical examination of the optic nerve head and retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) is however, subjective and sometimes variable. Recent developments in computer-based imaging technologies have provided a means of obtaining quantitative measurements of the optic nerve head topography and peripapillary retinal nerve fibre layer thickness.
Resolution improvement in emission optical projection tomography.	A new imaging technique called emission optical projection tomography (eOPT), essentially an optical version of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), provides molecular specificity, resolution on the order of microns to tens of microns, and large specimen coverage ( approximately 1 cubic centimetre). It is ideally suited to gene expression studies in embryos. Reconstructed eOPT images suffer from blurring that worsens as the distance from the axis of rotation increases. This blur is caused in part by the defocusing of the lens' point-spread function, which increases with object distance from the focal plane. In this paper, we describe a frequency space filter based on the frequency-distance relationship of sinograms to deconvolve the distance-dependent point-spread function and exclude highly defocused data from the eOPT sinograms prior to reconstruction. The method is shown to reduce the volume at half-maximum of the reconstructed point-spread function to approximately 20% the original, and the volume at 10% maximum to approximately 6% the original. As an illustration, the visibility of fine details in the vasculature of a 9.5 day old mouse embryo is dramatically improved.
Diagnostic ability of different tools for detection of glaucoma with confocal scanning laser tomography (Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II).	We evaluated the diagnostic ability of various diagnostic tools to detect glaucomatous damage in 101 normal eyes and 102 glaucomatous eyes. Mikelberg's linear discriminant function (LDF) obtained the best sensitivity followed by our own four formulas. With respect to specificity, Burk's LDF showed better results than Mikelberg's LDF and our formulae. Several Heidelberg retina tomograph analysis tools are useful to discriminate healthy from patients with glaucoma. Alternative tools based on normative databases derived from different autochthon populations add evidence needed to support their global use.
MicroCT-guided bioluminescence tomography based on the adaptive finite element tomographic algorithm.	Molecular imaging is an emerging imaging technique in biological and medical field. Thereinto, bioluminescence tomography (BLT) plays a significant role. In view of the ill-posedness of the BLT problem, a priori knowledge is indispensable to reconstruct bioluminescent source uniquely and quantitatively. In this paper, the anatomical information of a real mouse is obtained with the microCT scanner to represent different macroscopic biological tissues. The proposed tomographic algorithm based on the adaptive finite element methods (FEMs) employs the microCT slices based coarse volumetric mesh to reconstruct source distribution quantitatively according to a posteriori error estimation techniques. In order to avoid the inverse crime, a Monte Carlo (MC) method based virtual optical environment, molecular optical simulation environment (MOSE), is also adopted for producing the measurement data. Finally, simulation results with the above framework demonstrate the effectiveness and potential of the proposed adaptive tomographic algorithm.
Tumor detection using Bayesian conjugate prior in diffuse optical tomography.	Diffuse optical tomography (DOT) is an emerging non-invasive technique for detecting the presence of a tumor or other anomalies from a scattered photon field. In this paper, we derive an alternating projection algorithm to reconstruct the spatially varying absorption coefficient of human brain tissue to detect the presence of tumor. We use a perturbation method and assume the absorption coefficient of the tumor to be spatially varying with a Gaussian distribution. This assumption serves as a Bayesian conjugate prior on the absorption coefficient of the whole domain and using this prior can reduce the computational complexity and allow finding analytically tractable posteriors. Such prior information can be extracted from MRI or X-ray images to improve spatial resolution and accuracy of the reconstructed image. We illustrate our results using a simulated 3D geometry. We show that tumor presence can be detected using only one observation of the noisy data.
Parametric reconstruction method in optical tomography.	Optical tomography consists of reconstructing the spatial of a medium's optical properties from measurements of transmitted light on the boundary of the medium. Mathematically this problem amounts to parameter identification for the radiative transport equation (ERT) or diffusion approximation (DA). However, this type of boundary-value problem is highly ill-posed and the image reconstruction process is often unstable and non-unique. To overcome this problem, we present a parametric inverse method that considerably reduces the number of variables being reconstructed. In this way the amount of measured data is equal or larger than the number of unknowns. Using synthetic data, we show examples that demonstrate how this approach leads to improvements in imaging quality.
Comparison of two and three-dimensional optical tomographic image reconstructions of human finger joints.	We have developed an images reconstruction algorithm to recover spatial distribution of optical properties in human finger joints for early diagnosis and monitoring of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). An optimization method iteratively employs a light propagation and scattering coefficients distribution for near-infrared (NIR) light inside the joint tissue. We developed the differences in cross-sectional images obtained by using the reconstruction algorithms with 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional light propagation models. In particular we examined how these different approaches affect the discrimination between healthy and RA joints.
Computationally efficient methods for incorporation of spectral priors in 3-d optical tomography.	Use of spectral prior in optical tomography has significantly improved accuracy and quality of images, when applied in two-dimensional (2-D) models. However, the size of the problem increases substantially when applied in 3-D. Two methods are presented here that make 3-D spectral imaging computationally feasible. The data-subset approach uses a smaller subset of variable measurement s to reduce the size of the inverse problem. The basic principle consists of using a dynamic criterion to select optimal subset that capture the major changes in the imaging domain. Additionally, the sensitivity matrix is analyzed and made sparse based on a memory requirements (to 8% of full matrix) and provides less tha 2% percent difference in quantification compared to use of full matrices in the image reconstruction.
Separately reconstructing the structural and functional parameters of a fluorescent inclusion embedded in a turbid medium.	We report a novel imaging technique for fluorescence diffuse optical tomography (FDOT). Unlike conventional FDOT, this technique separates the imaging procedure into two steps to respectively reconstruct the structural information (such as the center position and the radius), and the functional information (such as the fluorophore concentration and/or lifetime) of a fluorescing target embedded in a turbid medium. The structural parameters of the target were estimated from the amplitude ratio and phase difference of fluorescence signals received at different detectors, because the amplitude ratio and phase difference were found independent of, or weakly related to, the functional parameters. Based on the estimated structural parameters, a dual-zone mesh technique was utilized to reconstruct the fluorophore concentration. Results of simulations and phantom experiments showed that the structural parameters could be accurately recovered, without knowing the functional information, and that the reconstruction accuracy of the functional parameter was greater than 80%.
Performance evaluation of an improved optical computed tomography polymer gel dosimeter system for 3D dose verification of static and dynamic phantom deliveries.	The performance of a next-generation optical computed tomography scanner (OCTOPUS-5X) is characterized in the context of three-dimensional gel dosimetry. Large-volume (2.2 L), muscle-equivalent, radiation-sensitive polymer gel dosimeters (BANG-3) were used. Improvements in scanner design leading to shorter acquisition times are discussed. The spatial resolution, detectable absorbance range, and reproducibility are assessed. An efficient method for calibrating gel dosimeters using the depth-dose relationship is applied, with photon- and electron-based deliveries yielding equivalent results. A procedure involving a preirradiation scan was used to reduce the edge artifacts in reconstructed images, thereby increasing the useful cross-sectional area of the dosimeter by nearly a factor of 2. Dose distributions derived from optical density measurements using the calibration coefficient show good agreement with the treatment planning system simulations and radiographic film measurements. The feasibility of use for motion (four-dimensional) dosimetry is demonstrated on an example comparing dose distributions from static and dynamic delivery of a single-field photon plan. The capability to visualize three-dimensional dose distributions is also illustrated.
Analysis of the depth resolution limit of luminescence diffuse optical imaging.	We introduce a methodology to determine quantitatively the depth resolution limit in luminescence diffuse optical imaging. The approach is based on a Cramer-Rao statistical analysis, a noise model, and calculations of photon transport in tissues. We illustrate the method in the case of luminescence imaging in a brain-skull model, showing its potential applications in molecular imaging on small animals.
Scattering of light by multiple dielectric cylinders: comparison of radiative transfer and Maxwell theory.	We have compared radiative transfer theory with analytical solutions of the Maxwell equations for light scattering by multiple infinitely long parallel cylinders at perpendicular incidence. The calculated scattering cross sections for both methods show large differences, but the angle-dependent differential scattering cross-section results are very similar for small cylinder densities, except close to the forward direction. In contrast to recently published results, it is shown that the radiative transfer equation is a useful approximation for small cylinder concentrations.
Performance of GDx and HRT in the Finnish Evidence-Based Guideline for Open-Angle Glaucoma.	To compare the performance of Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT) and scanning laser polarimetry (GDx) with photographic evaluation of the optic nerve head (ONH) and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) in the application of the Finnish Evidence-Based Guideline for Open-Angle Glaucoma.
Living specimen tomography by digital holographic microscopy: morphometry of testate amoeba.	This paper presents an optical diffraction tomography technique based on digital holographic microscopy. Quantitative 2-dimensional phase images are acquired for regularly-spaced angular positions of the specimen covering a total angle of pi, allowing to built 3-dimensional quantitative refractive index distributions by an inverse Radon transform. A 20x magnification allows a resolution better than 3 microm in all three dimensions, with accuracy better than 0.01 for the refractive index measurements. This technique is for the first time to our knowledge applied to living specimen (testate amoeba, Protista). Morphometric measurements are extracted from the tomographic reconstructions, showing that the commonly used method for testate amoeba biovolume evaluation leads to systematic under evaluations by about 50%.
A linear, featured-data scheme for image reconstruction in time-domain fluorescence molecular tomography.	Fluorescence diffuse optical tomography (DOT) has attracted many attentions from the community of biomedical imaging, since it provides effective enhancement in imaging contrast. This modality is now rapidly evolving as a potential means of monitoring molecular events in small living organisms with help of molecule-specific contrast agents, referred to as fluorescence molecular tomography (FMT). FMT could greatly promote pathogenesis research, drug development, and therapeutic intervention. Although FMT in steady-state and frequency-domain modes have been heavily investigated, the extension to time-domain scheme is imminent for its several unique advantages over the others. By extending the previously developed generalized pulse spectrum technique for time-domain DOT, we propose a linear, featured-data image reconstruction algorithm for time-domain FMT that can simultaneously reconstruct both fluorescent yield and lifetime images of multiple fluorophores, and validate the methodology with simulated data.
Toward acquiring comprehensive radiosurgery field commissioning data using the PRESAGE/optical-CT 3D dosimetry system.	Achieving accurate small field dosimetry is challenging. This study investigates the utility of a radiochromic plastic PRESAGE read with optical-CT for the acquisition of radiosurgery field commissioning data from a Novalis Tx system with a high-definition multileaf collimator (HDMLC). Total scatter factors (Sc, p), beam profiles, and penumbrae were measured for five different radiosurgery fields (5, 10, 20, 30 and 40 mm) using a commercially available optical-CT scanner (OCTOPUS, MGS Research). The percent depth dose (PDD), beam profile and penumbra of the 10 mm field were also measured using a higher resolution in-house prototype CCD-based scanner. Gafchromic EBT film was used for independent verification. Measurements of Sc, p made with PRESAGE and film agreed with mini-ion chamber commissioning data to within 4% for every field (range 0.2-3.6% for PRESAGE, and 1.6-3.6% for EBT). PDD, beam profile and penumbra measurements made with the two PRESAGE/optical-CT systems and film showed good agreement with the high-resolution diode commissioning measurements with a competitive resolution (0.5 mm pixels). The in-house prototype optical-CT scanner allowed much finer resolution compared with previous applications of PRESAGE. The advantages of the PRESAGE system for small field dosimetry include 3D measurements, negligible volume averaging, directional insensitivity, an absence of beam perturbations, energy and dose rate independence.
MRI-coupled fluorescence tomography quantifies EGFR activity in brain tumors.	This report demonstrates the diagnostic potential of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-coupled fluorescence molecular tomography (FMT) to determine epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) status in brain cancer.
3D level set reconstruction of model and experimental data in Diffuse Optical Tomography.	The level set technique is an implicit shape-based image reconstruction method that allows the recovery of the location, size and shape of objects of distinct contrast with well-defined boundaries embedded in a medium of homogeneous or moderately varying background parameters. In the case of diffuse optical tomography, level sets can be employed to simultaneously recover inclusions that differ in their absorption or scattering parameters from the background medium. This paper applies the level set method to the three-dimensional reconstruction of objects from simulated model data and from experimental frequency-domain data of light transmission obtained from a cylindrical phantom with tissue-like parameters. The shape and contrast of two inclusions, differing in absorption and diffusion parameters from the background, respectively, are reconstructed simultaneously. We compare the performance of level set recons uction with results from an image-based method using a Gauss-Newton iterative approach, and show that the level set technique can improve the detection and localisation of small, high-contrast targets.
In vivo bioluminescence tomography with a blocking-off finite-difference SP3 method and MRI/CT coregistration.	Bioluminescence imaging is a research tool for studying gene expression levels in small animal models of human disease. Bioluminescence light, however, is strongly scattered in biological tissue and no direct image of the light-emitting reporter probe's location can be obtained. Therefore, the authors have developed a linear image reconstruction method for bioluminescence tomography (BLT) that recovers the three-dimensional spatial bioluminescent source distribution in small animals.
Nonlinear inversion schemes for fluorescence optical tomography.	Fluorescence optical tomography is a non-invasive imaging modality that employs the absorption and re-emission of light by fluorescent dyes. The aim is to reconstruct the fluorophore distribution in a body from measurements of light intensities at the boundary. Due to the diffusive nature of light propagation in tissue, fluorescence tomography is a nonlinear and severely ill-posed problem, and some sort of regularization is required for a stable solution. In this paper we investigate reconstruction methods based on Tikhonov regularization with nonlinear penalty terms, namely total-variation regularization and a levelset-type method using a nonlinear parameterization of the unknown function. Moreover, we use the full threedimensional nonlinear forward model, which arises from the governing system of partial differential equations. We discuss the numerical realization of the regularization schemes by Newtontype iterations, present some details of the discretization by finite element methods, and outline the efficient implementation of sensitivity systems via adjoint methods. As we will demonstrate in numerical tests, the proposed nonlinear methods provide better reconstructions than standard methods based on linearized forward models and linear penalty terms. We will additionally illustrate, that the careful discretization of the methods derived on the continuous level allows to obtain reliable, mesh independent reconstruction algorithms. 
Combination of boundary element method and finite element method in diffuse optical tomography.	This paper presents a new numerical method for optical tomography: the combined boundary element/finite element method (BEM-FEM), designed to tackle reconstructions in layered turbid media. The BEM-FEM focuses on the region of interest by creating a volume mesh and reconstructing in this region only. All other regions are treated as piecewise-constant in a surface-integral approach. We validate the model in concentric spheres, with different positions of the volume-integral treated area and found it compared well with an analytical result. We then performed functional imaging of the neonates motor cortex in vivo, in a reconstruction restricted to the brain, both with FEM and BEM-FEM. These results show the effectiveness of the BEMFEM in situations where the organ of interest is surrounded by superficial layers. 
Functional white-laser imaging to study brain oxygen uncoupling/recoupling in songbirds.	Contrary to the intense debate about brain oxygen dynamics and its uncoupling in mammals, very little is known in birds. In zebra finches, picosecond optical tomography with a white laser and a streak camera can measure in vivo oxyhemoglobin (HbO(2)) and deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) concentration changes following physiologic stimulation (familiar calls and songs). Picosecond optical tomography showed sufficient submicromolar sensitivity to resolve the fast changes in the hippocampus and auditory forebrain areas with 250 μm resolution. The time course is composed of (1) an early 2-second-long event with a significant decrease in Hb and HbO(2) levels of -0.7 and -0.9 μmol/L, respectively, (2) a subsequent increase in blood oxygen availability with a plateau of HbO(2) (+0.3 μmol/L), and (3) pronounced vasodilatation events immediately after the end of the stimulus. One of the findings of our study is the direct link between blood oxygen level-dependent signals previously published in birds and our results. Furthermore, the early vasoconstriction event and poststimulus ringing seem to be more pronounced in birds than in mammals. These results in birds, tachymetabolic vertebrates with a long lifespan, can potentially yield new insights, e.g., into brain aging.
Multiple-view fluorescence optical tomography reconstruction using compression of experimental data.	We report on the experimental demonstration of a fast reconstruction method for multiview fluorescence diffuse optical tomography by using a wavelet-based data compression. We experimentally demonstrate that the use of data compression combined with the multiview approach makes it possible to perform a fast reconstruction of high quality. A structured illumination approach, guided by the compression scheme, has been adopted to further reduce the acquisition time. The reconstruction algorithm is based on the finite element method, and hence is suitable for samples of any arbitrary shape.
Optical phase-space-time-frequency tomography.	We present a new approach for constructing optical phase-space-time-frequency tomography (OPSTFT) of an optical wave field. This tomography can be measured by using a novel four-window optical imaging system based on two local oscillator fields balanced heterodyne detection. The OPSTFT is a Wigner distribution function of two independent Fourier Transform pairs, i.e., phase-space and time-frequency. From its theoretical and experimental aspects, it can provide information of position, momentum, time and frequency of a spatial light field with precision beyond the uncertainty principle. Besides the distributions of x-p and t-ω, the OPSTFT can provide four other distributions such as x-t, p-t, x-ω and p-ω. We simulate the OPSTFT for a light field obscured by a wire and a single-line absorption filter. We believe that the four-window system can provide spatial and temporal properties of a wave field for quantum image processing and biophotonics.
A quantitative spatial comparison of high-density diffuse optical tomography and fMRI cortical mapping.	Functional neuroimaging commands a dominant role in current neuroscience research. However its use in bedside clinical and certain neuro-scientific studies has been limited because the current tools lack the combination of being non-invasive, non-ionizing and portable while maintaining moderate resolution and localization accuracy. Optical neuroimaging satisfies many of these requirements, but, until recent advances in high-density diffuse optical tomography (HD-DOT), has been hampered by limited resolution. While early results of HD-DOT have been promising, a quantitative voxel-wise comparison and validation of HD-DOT against the gold standard of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been lacking. Herein, we provide such an analysis within the visual cortex using matched visual stimulation protocols in a single group of subjects (n=5) during separate HD-DOT and fMRI scanning sessions. To attain the needed voxel-to-voxel co-registration between HD-DOT and fMRI image spaces, we implemented subject-specific head modeling that incorporated MRI anatomy, detailed segmentation, and alignment of source and detector positions. Comparisons of the visual responses found an average localization error between HD-DOT and fMRI of 4.4+/-1mm, significantly less than the average distance between cortical gyri. This specificity demonstrates that HD-DOT has sufficient image quality to be useful as a surrogate for fMRI.
Calibrating the BOLD signal during a motor task using an extended fusion model incorporating DOT, BOLD and ASL data.	Multimodal imaging improves the accuracy of the localization and the quantification of brain activation when measuring different manifestations of the hemodynamic response associated with cerebral activity. In this study, we incorporated cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes measured with arterial spin labeling (ASL), Diffuse Optical Tomography (DOT) and blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) recordings to reconstruct changes in oxy- (ΔHbO(2)) and deoxyhemoglobin (ΔHbR). Using the Grubb relation between relative changes in CBF and cerebral blood volume (CBV), we incorporated the ASL measurement as a prior to the total hemoglobin concentration change (ΔHbT). We applied this ASL fusion model to both synthetic data and experimental multimodal recordings during a 2-s finger-tapping task. Our results show that the new approach is very powerful in estimating ΔHbO(2) and ΔHbR with high spatial and quantitative accuracy. Moreover, our approach allows the computation of baseline total hemoglobin concentration (HbT(0)) as well as of the BOLD calibration factor M on a single subject basis. We obtained an average HbT(0) of 71 μM, an average M value of 0.18 and an average increase of 13% in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)), all of which are in agreement with values previously reported in the literature. Our method yields an independent measurement of M, which provides an alternative measurement to validate the hypercapnic calibration of the BOLD signal.
High-resolution fluorescence diffuse optical tomography developed with nonlinear upconverting nanoparticles.	Fluorescence diffuse optical tomography (FDOT) is an emerging biomedical imaging technique that can be used to localize and quantify deeply situated fluorescent molecules within tissues. However, the potential of this technique is currently limited by its poor spatial resolution. In this work, we demonstrate that the current resolution limit of FDOT can be breached by exploiting the nonlinear power-dependent optical emission property of upconverting nanoparticles doped with rare-earth elements. The rare-earth-doped core-shell nanoparticles, NaYF(4):Yb(3+)/Tm(3+)@NaYF(4) of hexagonal phase, are synthesized through a stoichiometric method, and optical characterization shows that the upconverting emission of the nanoparticles in tissues depends quadratically on the power of excitation. In addition, quantum-yield measurements of the emission from the synthesized nanoparticles are performed over a large range of excitation intensities, for both core and core-shell particles. The measurements show that the quantum yield of the 800 nm emission band of core-shell upconverting nanoparticles is 3.5% under an excitation intensity of 78 W/cm(2). The FDOT reconstruction experiments are carried out in a controlled environment using liquid tissue phantoms. The experiments show that the spatial resolution of the FDOT reconstruction images can be significantly improved by the use of the synthesized upconverting nanoparticles and break the current spatial resolution limits of FDOT images obtained from using conventional linear fluorophores as contrast agents.
Changes in diffusion path length with old age in diffuse optical tomography.	Diffuse, optical near infrared imaging is increasingly being used in various neurocognitive contexts where changes in optical signals are interpreted through activation maps. Statistical population comparison of different age or clinical groups rely on the relative homogeneous distribution of measurements across subjects in order to infer changes in brain function. In the context of an increasing use of diffuse optical imaging with older adult populations, changes in tissue properties and anatomy with age adds additional confounds. Few studies investigated these changes with age. Duncan et al. measured the so-called diffusion path length factor (DPF) in a large population but did not explore beyond the age of 51 after which physiological and anatomical changes are expected to occur [Pediatr. Res. 39(5), 889-894 (1996)]. With increasing interest in studying the geriatric population with optical imaging, we studied changes in tissue properties in young and old subjects using both magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided Monte-Carlo simulations and time-domain diffuse optical imaging. Our results, measured in the frontal cortex, show changes in DPF that are smaller than previously measured by Duncan et al. in a younger population. The origin of these changes are studied using simulations and experimental measures.
Spatial frequency domain tomography of protoporphyrin IX fluorescence in preclinical glioma models.	Multifrequency (0 to 0.3  mm(-1)), multiwavelength (633, 680, 720, 800, and 820 nm) spatial frequency domain imaging (SFDI) of 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) was used to recover absorption, scattering, and fluorescence properties of glioblastoma multiforme spheroids in tissue-simulating phantoms and in vivo in a mouse model. Three-dimensional tomographic reconstructions of the frequency-dependent remitted light localized the depths of the spheroids within 500 μm, and the total amount of PpIX in the reconstructed images was constant to within 30% when spheroid depth was varied. In vivo tumor-to-normal contrast was greater than ∼1.5 in reduced scattering coefficient for all wavelengths and was ∼1.3 for the tissue concentration of deoxyhemoglobin (ctHb). The study demonstrates the feasibility of SFDI for providing enhanced image guidance during surgical resection of brain tumors.
Three-dimensional noninvasive monitoring iodine-131 uptake in the thyroid using a modified Cerenkov luminescence tomography approach.	Cerenkov luminescence tomography (CLT) provides the three-dimensional (3D) radiopharmaceutical biodistribution in small living animals, which is vital to biomedical imaging. However, existing single-spectral and multispectral methods are not very efficient and effective at reconstructing the distribution of the radionuclide tracer. In this paper, we present a semi-quantitative Cerenkov radiation spectral characteristic-based source reconstruction method named the hybrid spectral CLT, to efficiently reconstruct the radionuclide tracer with both encouraging reconstruction results and less acquisition and image reconstruction time.
Analysis of native kidney structures in three dimensions.	Optical Projection Tomography (OPT) is an imaging technique, which has proven to be ideally suited to the observation and quantification of kidney development in rodents. Unlike confocal microscopy systems, OPT is capable of imaging the organ in toto across a long window of embryonic development at sufficient resolution to capture relative changes in branching dynamics, pelvis development, and nephrogenesis. Here, we describe how to image kidneys by OPT, and initial steps to quantify kidney development from this data.
Investigation of a diffuse optical measurements-assisted quantitative photoacoustic tomographic method in reflection geometry.	Photoacoustic tomography provides the distribution of absorbed optical energy density, which is the product of optical absorption coefficient and optical fluence distribution. We report the experimental investigation of a novel fitting procedure that quantitatively determines the optical absorption coefficient of chromophores. The experimental setup consisted of a hybrid system of a 64-channel photoacoustic imaging system with a frequency-domain diffused optical measurement system. The fitting procedure included a complete photoacoustic forward model and an analytical solution of a target chromophore using the diffusion approximation. The fitting procedure combines the information from the photoacoustic image and the background information from the diffuse optical measurements to minimize the photoacoustic measurements and forward model data and recover the target absorption coefficient quantitatively. 1-cm-cube phantom absorbers of high and low contrasts were imaged at depths of up to 3.0 cm. The fitted absorption coefficient results were at least 80% of their true values. The sensitivities of this fitting procedure to target location, target radius, and background optical properties were also investigated. We found that this fitting procedure was most sensitive to the accurate determination of the target radius and depth. Blood sample in a thin tube of radius 0.58 mm, simulating a blood vessel, was also studied. The photoacoustic images and fitted absorption coefficients are presented. These results demonstrate the clinical potential of this fitting procedure to quantitatively characterize small lesions in breast imaging.
Ultrasound-modulated optical tomography at new depth.	Ultrasound-modulated optical tomography (UOT) has the potential to reveal optical contrast deep inside soft biological tissues at an ultrasonically determined spatial resolution. The optical imaging depth reported so far has, however, been limited, which prevents this technique from broader applications. Our latest experimental exploration has pushed UOT to an unprecedented imaging depth. We developed and optimized a UOT system employing a photorefractive crystal-based interferometer. A large aperture optical fiber bundle was used to enhance the efficiencies for diffuse light collection and photorefractive two-wave-mixing. Within the safety limits for both laser illumination and ultrasound modulation, the system has attained the ability to image through a tissue-mimicking phantom of 9.4 cm in thickness, which has never been reached previously by UOT.
Comparisons of hybrid radiosity-diffusion model and diffusion equation for bioluminescence tomography in cavity cancer detection.	Bioluminescence tomography (BLT) has been successfully applied to the detection and therapeutic evaluation of solid cancers. However, the existing BLT reconstruction algorithms are not accurate enough for cavity cancer detection because of neglecting the void problem. Motivated by the ability of the hybrid radiosity-diffusion model (HRDM) in describing the light propagation in cavity organs, an HRDM-based BLT reconstruction algorithm was provided for the specific problem of cavity cancer detection. HRDM has been applied to optical tomography but is limited to simple and regular geometries because of the complexity in coupling the boundary between the scattering and void region. In the provided algorithm, HRDM was first applied to three-dimensional complicated and irregular geometries and then employed as the forward light transport model to describe the bioluminescent light propagation in tissues. Combining HRDM with the sparse reconstruction strategy, the cavity cancer cells labeled with bioluminescent probes can be more accurately reconstructed. Compared with the diffusion equation based reconstruction algorithm, the essentiality and superiority of the HRDM-based algorithm were demonstrated with simulation, phantom and animal studies. An in vivo gastric cancer-bearing nude mouse experiment was conducted, whose results revealed the ability and feasibility of the HRDM-based algorithm in the biomedical application of gastric cancer detection.
Detection of brain tumors using fluorescence diffuse optical tomography and nanoparticles as contrast agents.	Near-infrared fluorescence-enhanced diffuse optical tomography (fDOT) is used to localize tumors in mice using fluorescent nanoparticles as a blood pool contrast agent. The infrared dye DiR is loaded in the lipid core of nontargeted nanoparticles (DiR-lipidots) and injected systemically via the tail vein in mice bearing U87 tumors. Distribution and time-course of DiR-lipidots are followed using in vivo fluorescence reflectance imaging and reveal enhanced fluorescent signal within the subcutaneous tumors up to seven days due to the enhanced permeability and retention effect. Tumor growth into the brain is followed using bioluminescent imaging, and tumor localization is further determined by magnetic resonance imaging. The fDOT provides three-dimensional fluorescent maps that allow for consistent localization for both subcutaneous and brain tumors.
Three-dimensional surface reconstruction within noncontact diffuse optical tomography using structured light.	A main field in biomedical optics research is diffuse optical tomography, where intensity variations of the transmitted light traversing through tissue are detected. Mathematical models and reconstruction algorithms based on finite element methods and Monte Carlo simulations describe the light transport inside the tissue and determine differences in absorption and scattering coefficients. Precise knowledge of the sample's surface shape and orientation is required to provide boundary conditions for these techniques. We propose an integrated method based on structured light three-dimensional (3-D) scanning that provides detailed surface information of the object, which is usable for volume mesh creation and allows the normalization of the intensity dispersion between surface and camera. The experimental setup is complemented by polarization difference imaging to avoid overlaying byproducts caused by inter-reflections and multiple scattering in semitransparent tissue.
Improving limited-projection-angle fluorescence molecular tomography using a co-registered x-ray computed tomography scan.	We examine the improvement in imaging performance, such as axial resolution and signal localization, when employing limited-projection-angle fluorescence molecular tomography (FMT) together with x-ray computed tomography (XCT) measurements versus stand-alone FMT. For this purpose, we employed living mice, bearing a spontaneous lung tumor model, and imaged them with FMT and XCT under identical geometrical conditions using fluorescent probes for cancer targeting. The XCT data was employed, herein, as structural prior information to guide the FMT reconstruction. Gold standard images were provided by fluorescence images of mouse cryoslices, providing the ground truth in fluorescence bio-distribution. Upon comparison of FMT images versus images reconstructed using hybrid FMT and XCT data, we demonstrate marked improvements in image accuracy. This work relates to currently disseminated FMT systems, using limited projection scans, and can be employed to enhance their performance.
Mesh-based Monte Carlo method in time-domain widefield fluorescence molecular tomography.	We evaluated the potential of mesh-based Monte Carlo (MC) method for widefield time-gated fluorescence molecular tomography, aiming to improve accuracy in both shape discretization and photon transport modeling in preclinical settings. An optimized software platform was developed utilizing multithreading and distributed parallel computing to achieve efficient calculation. We validated the proposed algorithm and software by both simulations and in vivo studies. The results establish that the optimized mesh-based Monte Carlo (mMC) method is a computationally efficient solution for optical tomography studies in terms of both calculation time and memory utilization. The open source code, as part of a new release of mMC, is publicly available at http://mcx.sourceforge.net/mmc/.
Detection of mouse liver cancer via a parallel iterative shrinkage method in hybrid optical/microcomputed tomography imaging.	Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide. In order to enable the noninvasive detection of small liver tumors in mice, we present a parallel iterative shrinkage (PIS) algorithm for dual-modality tomography. It takes advantage of microcomputed tomography and multiview bioluminescence imaging, providing anatomical structure and bioluminescence intensity information to reconstruct the size and location of tumors. By incorporating prior knowledge of signal sparsity, we associate some mathematical strategies including specific smooth convex approximation, an iterative shrinkage operator, and affine subspace with the PIS method, which guarantees the accuracy, efficiency, and reliability for three-dimensional reconstruction. Then an in vivo experiment on the bead-implanted mouse has been performed to validate the feasibility of this method. The findings indicate that a tiny lesion less than 3 mm in diameter can be localized with a position bias no more than 1 mm; the computational efficiency is one to three orders of magnitude faster than the existing algorithms; this approach is robust to the different regularization parameters and the lp norms. Finally, we have applied this algorithm to another in vivo experiment on an HCCLM3 orthotopic xenograft mouse model, which suggests the PIS method holds the promise for practical applications of whole-body cancer detection.
High-density diffuse optical tomography of term infant visual cortex in the nursery.	Advancements in antenatal and neonatal medicine over the last few decades have led to significant improvement in the survival rates of sick newborn infants. However, this improvement in survival has not been matched by a reduction in neurodevelopmental morbidities with increasing recognition of the diverse cognitive and behavioral challenges that preterm infants face in childhood. Conventional neuroimaging modalities, such as cranial ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging, provide an important definition of neuroanatomy with recognition of brain injury. However, they fail to define the functional integrity of the immature brain, particularly during this critical developmental period. Diffuse optical tomography methods have established success in imaging adult brain function; however, few studies exist to demonstrate their feasibility in the neonatal population. We demonstrate the feasibility of using recently developed high-density diffuse optical tomography (HD-DOT) to map functional activation of the visual cortex in healthy term-born infants. The functional images show high contrast-to-noise ratio obtained in seven neonates. These results illustrate the potential for HD-DOT and provide a foundation for investigations of brain function in more vulnerable newborns, such as preterm infants.
Characterization and three-dimensional localization of cancerous prostate tissue using backscattering scanning polarization imaging and independent component analysis.	Characterization and three-dimensional (3-D) localization of human cancerous prostate tissue embedded in normal prostate tissue were demonstrated using backscattering scanning polarization imaging and an inverse imaging reconstruction algorithm, optical tomography using independent component analysis (OPTICA). Two-dimensional (2-D) backscattering images of a prostate tissue sample illuminated with a scanning laser beam were measured with a CCD camera to obtain multiple angular views of the target embedded inside the tissue. The recorded sets of 2-D images were used to determine the existence and 3-D location of the cancerous prostate tissue using the algorithm. The difficulty arises in the backscattering geometry because the profile of the incident beam and the surface property of the tissue sample appreciably affect the spatial distribution of the backscattered light. This challenge was addressed by: (1) synthesizing a "clean" background image of the host medium; and (2) numerically marching the propagation of the scattered light from the hidden target to the surface of the tissue sample until matching the retrieved independent component. The OPTICA algorithm was improved specifically for the backscattering model, and used to obtain 3-D locations of the cancerous tissue embedded in normal host tissue. The retrieved results were found in good agreement with the known 3-D positions of the cancerous tissue.
Effective contrast recovery in rapid dynamic near-infrared diffuse optical tomography using ℓ(1)-norm-based linear image reconstruction method.	Traditional image reconstruction methods in rapid dynamic diffuse optical tomography employ ℓ(2)-norm-based regularization, which is known to remove the high-frequency components in the reconstructed images and make them appear smooth. The contrast recovery in these type of methods is typically dependent on the iterative nature of method employed, where the nonlinear iterative technique is known to perform better in comparison to linear techniques (noniterative) with a caveat that nonlinear techniques are computationally complex. Assuming that there is a linear dependency of solution between successive frames resulted in a linear inverse problem. This new framework with the combination of ℓ(1)-norm-based regularization can provide better robustness to noise and provide better contrast recovery compared to conventional ℓ(2)-based techniques. Moreover, it is shown that the proposed ℓ(1)-based technique is computationally efficient compared to its counterpart (ℓ(2)-based one). The proposed framework requires a reasonably close estimate of the actual solution for the initial frame, and any suboptimal estimate leads to erroneous reconstruction results for the subsequent frames.
Diffuse optical tomographic imaging of biological media by time-dependent parabolic SP(N) equations: a two-dimensional study.	We investigate the problem of retrieving the optical properties (absorption and scattering) of biological tissue from a set of optical measurements. A diffuse optical tomography (DOT) algorithm that incorporates constrained optimization methods is implemented. To improve image quality, the DOT algorithm exploits full time-domain data. The time-dependent parabolic simplified spherical harmonics equations (TD-pSPN) are used as the forward model. Time-dependent adjoint variables are resorted to in the calculation of the gradient of the objective function. Several numerical experiments for small geometric media with embedded inclusions that mimic small animal imaging are performed. In the experiments, optical coefficient values are varied in the range of realistic values for the near-infrared spectrum, including high absorption values. Single and multiparameter reconstructions are performed with the diffusion equation and higher orders of the TD-pSPN equations. The results suggest the DOT algorithm based on the TD-pSPN model outperforms the DE, and accurately reconstructs optical parameter distributions of biological media both spatially and quantitatively.
New noninvasive index for evaluation of the vascular age of healthy and sick people.	We conducted a study on 861 healthy and sick subjects and demonstrated that some calculated parameters based on measurement of the dynamic light scattering (DLS) signal from the finger correlate highly with chronological age ranging from 1.5 to 85 years old. Measurements of DLS signals were obtained during both occlusion and nonocclusion of blood flow in the finger. For the nonocclusion case we found that the low-frequency component of the DLS signal significantly correlates with the biological age while the high-frequency component of the DLS signal resembles the arterial pulse-wave and does correlate with age. However, the most prominent correlation between the DLS characteristics and age was noted with the stasis stage measurements. We propose that the observed age-related phenomena are caused by alterations in local blood viscosity and interactions of the endothelial cells with erythrocytes. Further, a new noninvasive index based on the age-related optical characteristics was introduced. This noninvasive index may be used as a research and diagnostic tool to examine the endothelial and thrombolytic properties of the vascular system.
Three-dimensional surface scanning for accurate patient positioning and monitoring during breast cancer radiotherapy.	Clinical evaluation of an optical three-dimensional surface scanning (3D-SS) system for patient positioning and monitoring during radiotherapy (RT) for breast cancer.
Detection and quantification of enzymatically active prostate-specific antigen in vivo.	Assays for blood levels of prostate-specific antigen (PSA), performed in prostate cancer detection, measure mostly inactive/complexed PSA and do not provide information regarding enzymatically active PSA, which is biologically more relevant. Thus, we designed and synthesized an enzymatically cleavable peptide sequence labeled with near-infrared (NIR) fluorophores (ex/em 740/770  nm) and coupled it to a pharmacokinetic modifier designed to improve its plasma kinetics. In its native state, the agent, PSA750 FAST™ (PSA750), is optically quenched (>95%) and only becomes fluorescent upon cleavage by active PSA, yielding a significant increase in signal. This activation is highly selective for PSA relative to a large panel of disease-relevant enzymes. Active PSA was detected in tumor frozen sections using PSA750 and this activity was abolished in the presence of the inhibitor, alpha-1 anti-chymotrypsin. In vivo imaging of tumor-bearing mice using fluorescence molecular tomography demonstrated a significantly higher fluorescent signal in PSA+ LNCaP tumors as compared to PSA- prostate cancer 3 tumors (13.0±3.7 versus 2.8±0.8  pmol, p=0.023). Ex vivo imaging of tumor sections confirms PSA750-derived NIR signal localization in nonvascular tissue. This is the first report that demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of noninvasive, real time, fluorescence molecular imaging of PSA enzymatic activity in prostate cancer.
Bioluminescence tomography by an iterative reweighted (l)2 norm optimization.	Bioluminescence tomography is a promising tool in preclinical research, enabling noninvasive real-time in vivo imaging as well as quantitative analysis in small animal studies. Due to the difficulty of reconstruction, continuous efforts are still made to find more practical and efficient approaches. In this paper, we present an iterative reweighted l2-norm optimization incorporating anatomical structures in order to enhance the performance of bioluminescence tomography. The structure priors have been utilized to generate a heterogeneous mouse model by extracting the internal organs and tissues, which can assist in establishing a more precise photon diffusion model, as well as reflecting a more specific position of the reconstruction results inside the mouse. To evaluate the performance of the iterative reweighted approach, several numerical simulation studies including comparative analyses and multisource cases have been conducted to reconstruct the same datasets. The results suggest that the proposed method is able to ensure the accuracy, robustness, and efficiency of bioluminescence tomography. Finally, an in vivo experiment was performed to further validate its feasibility in a practical application. 
Incoherence-based optimal selection of independent measurements in diffuse optical tomography.	An optimal measurement selection strategy based on incoherence among rows (corresponding to measurements) of the sensitivity (or weight) matrix for the near infrared diffuse optical tomography is proposed. As incoherence among the measurements can be seen as providing maximum independent information into the estimation of optical properties, this provides high level of optimization required for knowing the independency of a particular measurement on its counterparts. The proposed method was compared with the recently established data-resolution matrix-based approach for optimal choice of independent measurements and shown, using simulated and experimental gelatin phantom data sets, to be superior as it does not require an optimal regularization parameter for providing the same information.
Limited-projection-angle hybrid fluorescence molecular tomography of multiple molecules.	An advantage of fluorescence methods over other imaging modalities is the ability to concurrently resolve multiple moieties using fluorochromes emitting at different spectral regions. Simultaneous imaging of spectrally separated agents is helpful in interrogating multiple functions or establishing internal controls for accurate measurements. Herein, we investigated multimoiety imaging in the context of a limited-projection-angle hybrid fluorescence molecular tomography (FMT), and x-ray computed tomography implementation and the further registration with positron emission tomography (PET) data. Multichannel FMT systems may image fluorescent probes of varying distribution patterns. Therefore, it is possible that different channels may require different use of priors and regularization parameters. We examined the performance of automatically estimating regularization factors implementing priors, using data-driven regularization specific for limited-projection-angle schemes. We were particularly interested in identifying the implementation variations between hybrid-FMT channels due to probe distribution variation. For this reason, initial validation of the data-driven algorithm on a phantom was followed by imaging different agent distributions in animals, assuming superficial and deep seated activity. We further demonstrate the benefits of combining hybrid FMT with PET to gain multiple readings on the molecular composition of disease.
Multiscale multispectral optoacoustic tomography by a stationary wavelet transform prior to unmixing.	Multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) utilizes broadband ultrasound detection for imaging biologically-relevant optical absorption features at a range of scales. Due to the multiscale and multispectral features of the technology, MSOT comes with distinct requirements in implementation and data analysis. In this work, we investigate the interplay between scale, which depends on ultrasonic detection frequency, and optical multispectral spectral analysis, two dimensions that are unique to MSOT and represent a previously unexplored challenge. We show that ultrasound frequency-dependent artifacts suppress multispectral features and complicate spectral analysis. In response, we employ a wavelet decomposition to perform spectral unmixing on a per-scale basis (or per ultrasound frequency band) and showcase imaging of fine-scale features otherwise hidden by low frequency components. We explain the proposed algorithm by means of simple simulations and demonstrate improved performance in imaging data of blood vessels in human subjects.
