Performance evaluation of microPET: a high-resolution lutetium oxyorthosilicate PET scanner for animal imaging.	A new dedicated PET scanner, microPET, was designed and developed at the University of California, Los Angeles, for imaging small laboratory animals. The goal was to provide a compact system with superior spatial resolution at a fraction of the cost of a clinical PET scanner.
Hypothalamic deep brain stimulation for intractable chronic cluster headache: a 3-year follow-up.	Cluster headache is the most severe among primary headaches. Positron emission tomography and functional MRI studies have demonstrated that the ipsilateral posterior hypothalamus is activated during cluster headache attacks and is structurally asymmetric in these patients thus indicating that cluster headache may originate at that level. These hypothalamic abnormalities in cluster headache led to the suggestion that deep brain stimulation of ipsilateral posterior inferior hypothalamus might produce clinical improvement in otherwise treatment refractory chronic cluster headache patients. In a patient with severe intractable chronic cluster headache, hypothalamic electrical stimulation produced complete and long-term pain relief with no relevant side effects. So far other operations have been performed and the results are encouraging in terms of both pain relief and safety. The efficacy of hypothalamic electrical stimulation provides some hints into cluster headache pathophysiology.
MicroPET II: design, development and initial performance of an improved microPET scanner for small-animal imaging.	MicroPET II is a second-generation animal PET scanner designed for high-resolution imaging of small laboratory rodents. The system consists of 90 scintillation detector modules arranged in three contiguous axial rings with a ring diameter of 16.0 cm and an axial length of 4.9 cm. Each detector module consists of a 14 x 14 array of lutetium oxyorthosilicate (LSO) crystals coupled to a multi-channel photomultiplier tube (MC-PMT) through a coherent optical fibre bundle. Each LSO crystal element measures 0.975 mm x 0.975 mm in cross section by 12.5 mm in length. A barium sulphate reflector material was used between LSO elements leading to a detector pitch of 1.15 mm in both axial and transverse directions. Fused optical fibre bundles were made from 90 microm diameter glass fibres with a numerical aperture of 0.56. Interstitial extramural absorber was added between the fibres to reduce optical cross talk. A charge-division readout circuit was implemented on printed circuit boards to decode the 196 crystals in each array from the outputs of the 64 anode signals of the MC-PMT. Electronics from Concorde Microsystems Inc. (Knoxville, TN) were used for signal amplification, digitization, event qualification, coincidence processing and data capture. Coincidence data were passed to a host PC that recorded events in list mode. Following acquisition, data were sorted into sinograms and reconstructed using Fourier rebinning and filtered hackprojection algorithms. Basic evaluation of the system has been completed. The absolute sensitivity of the microPET II scanner was 2.26% at the centre of the field of view (CFOV) for an energy window of 250-750 keV and a timing window of 10 ns. The intrinsic spatial resolution of the detectors in the system averaged 1.21 mm full width at half maximum (FWHM) when measured with a 22Na point source 0.5 mm in diameter. Reconstructed image resolution ranged from 0.83 mm FWHM at the CFOV to 1.47 mm FWHM in the radial direction, 1.17 mm FWHM in the tangential direction and 1.42 mm FWHM in the axial direction at 1 cm offset from the CFOV. These values represent highly significant improvements over our earlier microPET scanner (approximately fourfold sensitivity increase and 25-35% improvement in linear spatial resolution under equivalent operating conditions) and are expected to be further improved when the system is fully optimized.
Fully automated synthesis module for preparation of S-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)-L-methionine by direct nucleophilic exchange on a quaternary 4-aminopyridinium resin.	A fully automated preparation of S-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)-L-methionine (FEMET), an amino acid tracer for tumor imaging with positron emission tomography, is described. [(18)F]F(-) was produced via nuclear reaction (18)O(p,n) [(18)F] at PETtrace Cyclotron. Direction nucleophilic fluorination reaction of [(18)F]fluoride with 1,2-di(4-methylphenylsulfonyloxy)ethane on a quaternary 4-(4-methylpiperidinyl)pyridinium functionalized polystyrene anion exchange resin gave 2-[(18)F]-1-(4-methylphenyl-sulfonyloxy)ethane, and then [(18)F]fluoroalkylation of L-homocysteine thiolactone with 2-[(18)F]-1-(4-methylphenylsulfonyloxy)ethane yielded FEMET. The overall radiochemical yield with no decay correction was about 10%, the whole synthesis time was about 52 min, and the radiochemical purity was above 95%.
Basic investigation of data acquisition system for next generation PET scanner]	We are under development of a 3D PET scanner with depth of interaction (DOI) capable of high sensitivity and high resolution. In this paper, we estimated the data transfer rate of data acquisition system of this PET scanner by the simulation studies. A maximum data transfer rate of coincidence pair's event information is 10 Mcps and one coincidence event is a 64-bit data format. A data acquisition system, which fulfills the specification of this scanner, is considered for parallel collection with banks including several coincidence units. Simulator of parallel collection system composed of two stand-alone simulators and the server PC. Each stand-alone simulator is composed of data generation PC, data processing circuit, SCSI and data acquisition PC. As the result of simulation studies, the maximum data transfer rate of the stand-alone simulator was 12.0 MB/s, and the maximum data transfer rates at the server PC with one and two nodes were 11.0 and 21.8 MB/s, respectively. Data transfer rate was improved by parameter optimization of a message size and multi-processing of data acquisition software using RAM-DISK.
Computer simulation of DOI-PET detector (1) -analysis of DOI discrimination accuracy in a detector block-]	A detector proposed by Murayama et al. for detection of depth-of-interaction (DOI) in PET consists of three-dimensionally arranged crystal elements with proper optical reflectors and is coupled to an array of photomultiplier tubes. This detector has a great advantage in easiness and cost in fabrication. We implemented a simulator of this detector that allows us to find appropriate values of parameters such as optical properties of crystal or detector unit geometry before making detectors. The simulator is based on the Monte Carlo method that traces the migration of optical photons generated by interaction of a gamma ray with crystal. First, the simulator performance was validated by comparing with the experimental data obtained with some prototype detectors. Then, on some parameters including refractive index of inter-crystal material, reflectance of optical reflector and detector geometry, appropriate values were investigated for accurate discrimination of crystal element of interaction.
Radionuclide imaging technologies and their use in evaluating asthma drug deposition in the lungs.	Whole lung and regional lung deposition of inhaled asthma drugs in the lungs can be quantified using either two-dimensional or three-dimensional radionuclide imaging methods. The two-dimensional method of gamma scintigraphy has been the most widely used, and is currently considered the industry standard, but the three-dimensional methods (SPECT, single photon emission computed tomography; and PET, positron emission tomography) give superior regional lung deposition data and will undoubtedly be used more frequently in future. Recent developments in radionuclide imaging are described, including an improved algorithm for assessing regional lung deposition in gamma scintigraphy, and a patent-protected radiolabelling method (TechneCoat), applicable to both gamma scintigraphy and SPECT. Radionuclide imaging data on new inhaled asthma products provide a milestone assessment, and the data form a bridge between in vitro testing and a full clinical trials program, allowing the latter to be entered with increased confidence.
Globally convergent image reconstruction for emission tomography using relaxed ordered subsets algorithms.	We present two types of globally convergent relaxed ordered subsets (OS) algorithms for penalized-likelihood image reconstruction in emission tomography: modified block sequential regularized expectation-maximization (BSREM) and relaxed OS separable paraboloidal surrogates (OS-SPS). The global convergence proof of the existing BSREM (De Pierro and Yamagishi, 2001) required a few a posteriori assumptions. By modifying the scaling functions of BSREM, we are able to prove the convergence of the modified BSREM under realistic assumptions. Our modification also makes stepsize selection more convenient. In addition, we introduce relaxation into the OS-SPS algorithm (Erdoğan and Fessler, 1999) that otherwise would converge to a limit cycle. We prove the global convergence of diagonally scaled incremental gradient methods of which the relaxed OS-SPS is a special case; main results of the proofs are from (Nedić and Bertsekas, 2001) and (Correa and Lemaréchal, 1993). Simulation results showed that both new algorithms achieve global convergence yet retain the fast initial convergence speed of conventional unrelaxed ordered subsets algorithms.
Positron emission tomography in oncology]	Positron emission tomography (PET) has been developed to visualize biochemical and physiological phenomena in living humans. Blood flow, blood volume, glucose metabolism, amino acid metabolism, neural transmission system functions can be quantitatively estimated by means of PET with various radioactive tracers. A glucose analog, 18F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose, has been utilized to evaluate glucose metabolism. The whole body PET scanner enables imaging of brain; heart, and neoplasms within an hour. Screening for cancer and evaluation of remote metastasis, recurrence, and effects of radio-chemotherapy are now performed clinically. Further development of the tracers may enable a visualization of gene expression by means of radioactive anti-sense nucleic acids. In regeneration medicine, functional recovery can be estimated by means of PET.
Evaluation of the clinical performances of a large NaI(Tl) crystal 3D PET scanner.	This study was aimed at assessing the clinical performances of a NaI(Tl) crystal 3D PET scanner, C-PET (ADAC-UGM), using a multi-ring 2D BGO PET scanner (multi-ring PET), as a reference.
Development of an inexpensive, low attenuation styrofoam primate chair for use in a PET scanner.	Pharmacokinetic modelling of radiotracers for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of neuroreceptors can be performed with time-activity data for brain and blood. We aimed to develop an alternative to withdrawal of arterial blood samples for acquisition of a blood curve. A supportive primate chair was constructed out of styrofoam and fixed to the head portion of the bed of a PET scanner. A lightly anaesthetised rhesus monkey was positioned in the chair in a sitting position and injected with the radiotracer. The styrofoam chair provided sufficient support for the monkey. The presence of the chair in the PET scanner caused negligible attenuation of radiation, allowing simultaneous acquisition of dynamic data from the subject's brain and heart. We conclude that a styrofoam primate chair is an ideal tool to measure blood and brain data from a rhesus monkey with PET. Invasiveness to the animal is reduced, as well as experimenter time.
Non-stationary convolution subtraction scatter correction with a dual-exponential scatter kernel for the Hamamatsu SHR-7700 animal PET scanner.	A spatially variant convolution subtraction scatter correction was developed for a Hamamatsu SHR-7700 animal PET scanner. This scanner, with retractable septa and a gantry that can be tilted 90 degrees, was designed for studies of conscious monkeys. The implemented dual-exponential scatter kernel takes into account both radiation scattered inside the object and radiation scattered in gantry and detectors. This is necessary because of the relatively large contribution of gantry and detector scatter in this scanner. The correction is used for scatter correction of emission as well as transmission data. Transmission scatter correction using the dual-exponential kernel leads to a measured attenuation coefficient of 0.096 cm(-1) in water, compared to 0.089 cm(-1) without scatter correction. Scatter correction on both emission and transmission data resulted in a residual correction error of 2.1% in water, as well as improved image contrast and hot spot quantification.
Use of FDG-microPET for detection of small nodules in a rabbit model of pulmonary metastatic cancer.	The performance of microPET using 18F-FDG was evaluated in a rabbit model of hematogenous pulmonary metastatic cancer.
Clinical implications of different image reconstruction parameters for interpretation of whole-body PET studies in cancer patients.	The standardized uptake value (SUV) is the most commonly used parameter to quantify the intensity of radiotracer uptake in tumors. Previous studies suggested that measurements of (18)F-FDG accumulation in tissue might be affected by the image reconstruction method, but the clinical relevance of these findings has not been assessed.
Measurement of cerebral glucose metabolic rates in the anesthetized rat by dynamic scanning with 18F-FDG, the ATLAS small animal PET scanner, and arterial blood sampling.	Rodent models and genetically altered mice have recently become available to study many human diseases. A sensitive and accurate PET scanner for small animals would be useful to evaluate treatment of these diseases in rodent models. To examine the feasibility of performing quantitative PET studies, we performed dynamic scans with arterial blood sampling in anesthetized rats with the ATLAS (Advanced Technology Laboratory Animal Scanner) small animal PET scanner developed at the National Institutes of Health and (18)F-FDG and compared activities determined by PET scanning with those obtained by direct tissue sampling.
Recent experiences with shielding a PET/CT facility.	Since the photon energy of positron emitting radionuclides is significantly higher than the maximum kVp of diagnostic x rays, designing a shielding plan for a PET/CT imaging facility requires careful consideration of future workloads and potential occupancy of surrounding spaces. The shielding calculations can be done by hand or with the aid of available software. In calculating the shielding, specific considerations arise. Some of these are presented as a checklist of things to consider when preparing to calculate the shielding required for a PET/CT facility.
Quantitation of small-animal (124)I activity distributions using a clinical PET/CT scanner.	Time-dependent PET imaging can be an important tool in the assessment of radiotracer performance in murine models. We have performed a quantitative analysis of PET images of (124)I, acquired on a clinical PET system using a small-animal phantom. We then compared the recovered activity concentrations with the known activity concentration in the phantom spheres. The recovery coefficients found from the phantom data were applied to in vivo (124)I anti-HER2/neu C6.5 diabody PET data and compared with necropsy biodistribution data from the same tumor-bearing immunodeficient mouse.
Analytical study of performance in a 3D PET scanner.	The use of arrays of small discrete detectors and thin slices to achieve a high isotropic spatial resolution in positron emission tomography (PET) results in systems with a low ring sensitivity. In a multi-ring system, the overall sensitivity can be considerably improved by removing the interslice collimators to make full use of all cross slices coincidences, but this is achieved at the expense of increased scatter and accidental rates in the image. For imaging of small laboratory animals (diameter of 10 cm or less), the relieved burden of scatters, and to some extent accidentals, suggests that volumetric imaging may be of particular value. In order to evaluate the performance to be expected from a small animal PET scanner (10 cm diameter field) with and without the interplane collimators, the incident event rates for singles (unscattered and single scattered) and true, scatter and accidental coincidences were evaluated analytically. The performance was evaluated for various source sizes and activities in terms of five criteria: true/single ratio, scatter fraction, accidental fraction, image contrast and noise effective sensitivity. As a result of a 3-fold increase in scatter fraction and of a significant increase in accidental fraction for larger sources, the image contrast (true/(scatter+accidental)) is observed to always be inferior with the collimators removed. However, a significant improvement in noise effective sensitivity is obtained with the volumetric configuration, especially for small size sources placed at the centre of the field of view. It is concluded that the volumetric configuration is more advantageous than the multislice configuration to image small animals because the gain in sensitivity overcomes the loss of accuracy due to higher scatter and accidental rates.
A fully 3D small PET scanner.	A fully 3D small PET scanner based on a novel detection principle for gamma rays is described. It uses BaF2 scintillator and photosensitive wire chambers. Extensive tests with technical prototypes have shown that such a system will have a detection efficiency for gamma rays comparable with what can be obtained with the more traditional approach, and a spatial resolution determined by the size of the crystals. The expected performances of the scanner, based on our measurements and on simulations, are given.
Removing the interference error between attenuation correction and scatter subtraction in 3D PET imaging.	A method to remove the interference between attenuation correction and scatter subtraction has been developed for the QPET 3D imaging system at Queen's University. Because the detector system has more than 10(10) lines of response, we reconstruct the image by first backprojecting, then filtering. We correct for attenuation at backprojection by weighting each event by the inverse of the attenuation factor calculated by reprojection through an attenuation image. Since the scatter background has not been corrected at backprojection time, this has the side effect that a fraction of the detected scattered events get incorrectly weighted. When a scatter subtraction is subsequently applied, the correction is inaccurate because the scatter distribution has been modified by the attenuation correction procedure. The residual interference error in the reconstructed image is a distorted image of the attenuator. An approximation to this error is obtained by reprojecting through the attenuation image, backprojecting with appropriate weights, then reconstructing. This image is then scaled and multiplied by the calculated scatter distribution to obtain an estimate of the interference error. Both simulations and measurements indicate that for our system, this method provides a reasonable approximation of the interference error in the image.
Evaluation of a 3D reconstruction algorithm for multi-slice PET scanners.	A fully 3D reconstruction algorithm based on filtered backprojection was evaluated for the reconstruction of data obtained with multi-slice positron emission tomography (PET) scanners which have had the septa removed. This algorithm uses forward-projection through the reconstructed images of a 2D subset of the data to complete the 3D dataset thus satisfying the condition of shift invariance. This is followed by 3D filtered backprojection. Axial sampling was doubled by combining adjacent polar angles, thus improving reconstructed axial resolution. The algorithm was tested using real and simulated datasets and gave high quality reconstructions without artifacts over a wide range of imaging conditions. Events are placed accurately throughout the imaging volume as determined by measurements with a MRI/PET registration phantom. The forward-projection step leads to degradation in image resolution due to insufficient axial and transaxial sampling. This effect is amplified if multiple iterations of the algorithm are used, with little decrease in image noise. Changing the filter employed in the initial 2D reconstruction can be used to alter the noise and resolution characteristics of the 3D images. This algorithm has proved very robust at reconstructing 3D PET data and is relatively fast. Those small problems which exist can be attributed to detector sampling problems, especially in the axial direction, which is a consequence of the geometry of these scanners, which are designed primarily for 2D data acquisition.
Detection nonuniformity measurements and corrections for cone beam transmission CT on a gamma camera.	Cone beam transmission CT (CB-CT) improves SPECT imaging by providing high-quality attenuation maps for attenuation compensation and for correlated SPECT and CT imaging. The present work measures the detection nonuniformity for CB-CT implemented with a gamma camera, and applies nonuniformity corrections to make CB-CT more uniform and accurate. Two cone beam collimators were investigated, as well as the uncollimated cone beam geometry, using both uniformity images and CB-CT reconstructions of a uniform circular cylinder. Uniformity images were acquired as a function of point source position relative to the nominal focal point. The uniformity images for both collimators were highly nonuniform, with some regions differing by more than 15% from the average image counts per pixel, indicating that the holes do not focus to the same point. The most uniform images were obtained with the point source located at or near the nominal focal point. Radiographs estimated the misfocusing of the holes to be about 0.6 degrees in some regions. There were no indications that the hole size was nonuniform. The CB-CT reconstructions of data acquired with collimator showed no obvious signs of image artifact from the detection nonuniformities. However, low-noise simulated data with well-localized detection defects produced readily-apparent circular artifacts. The nonuniformity correction was accurate and easy to apply, and should be used whenever quantitative accuracy is required. The uniformity images acquired without collimator lacked the collimator-produced nonuniformities, but had decreased counts near the detector edge. The decrease was predictable, using simple geometric considerations. Uniform cylinder reconstructions of "without collimator" data showed a corresponding decrease in center density relative to the edge (edge-to-center ratio = 1.25), which was improved by the nonuniformity correction (ratio = 0.21). Accurate CB-CT without collimator will require further correction for photon scatter.
A comparison of three commercially available PET imaging systems.	Three commercial positron emission tomography (PET) imagers were assessed using the same test protocol (Positron Corporation 'Posicam', Siemens Ecat 951/31 and the Scanditronix PC 4096-15WB). A cylindrical phantom and a 'Jaszczak' phantom both filled with 18F were employed to measure sensitivity, slice uniformity, transaxial and axial resolution and cold rod contrast. The spread of results were as follows: sensitivity varied from 2.08 to 3.73 kcps kBq-1 ml-1 (77-138 kcps microCi-1 ml-1); radial resolution on axis (at 17.5 cm) varied from 5.0 to 5.9 mm (6.7-8.1 mm); tangential resolution ranged from 5.4 to 5.8 mm (6.7-8.6 mm); axial resolution ranged from 4.6 to 11.5 mm (6.6-13.6 mm); contrast in the middle of a 30 mm diameter rod varied from 98 to 93% and for a 5 mm rod from 37 to 22%. The performance of all three systems approximated reasonably well to the manufacturers' published specifications. The most significant differences were found to be in sensitivity, axial resolution and deadtime correction and can be explained by the choice of crystal size and crystal/photomultiplier configuration.
Whole-body positron emission tomography: Part I. Methods and performance characteristics.	Methods for whole-body PET imaging have been developed to provide a clinical tool for the detection and evaluation of primary and metastatic cancers. The axial FOV of the PET system is extended by imaging at multiple bed positions to cover the whole body. In typical rectilinear PET scans, only a small fraction of the data is collected to form two-dimensional projection images. In this work, 100% of the projection data was collected to form the two-dimensional projection images. These projection images were generated for continuous angles over 180 degrees by resorting sinogram data. In addition, tomographic images were formed by using filtered backprojection reconstruction without attenuation correction. Coronal and sagittal cuts were then extracted from the three-dimensional data set. The tomographic images were reconstructed to a resolution of 10.8 mm in all dimensions because of statistical limitations of the data. Both methods of image formation resulted in images of high quality with the tomographic reconstruction providing the highest contrast and resolution. An acquisition time of 1-2 min/bed position after a 10-mCi injection of [18F]fluoride ion or [18F]FDG was found to give a sufficient number of counts for producing images of good resolution and contrast, from a total scanning time of 32-64 min.
Misalignment between PET transmission and emission scans: its effect on myocardial imaging.	Patient movement between PET scanning sequences can produce misalignment between attenuation and emission scans. Such misalignment introduces errors in the emission image. This study evaluates the severity of these errors and their effect upon quantitation of regional myocardial activity. Myocardial FDG scans from 14 patients were reconstructed with simulated translational, rotational and out-of-plane patient movement. Eight myocardial regions from each patient were examined to determine the effect such misalignment might have on regional myocardial activity. A 2-cm shift between attenuation and emission scans produced up to a 30% change in regional activity. Some regions of the myocardium increased while others decreased for a given magnitude and direction of shift, producing anomalous regional myocardial inhomogeneities in the image. Such changes could easily cause qualitative and quantitative misinterpretations. We present data permitting the reader to assess the magnitude of this effect in his/her own clinical setting.
Penalized maximum-likelihood image reconstruction for lesion detection.	Detecting cancerous lesions is one major application in emission tomography. In this paper, we study penalized maximum-likelihood image reconstruction for this important clinical task. Compared to analytical reconstruction methods, statistical approaches can improve the image quality by accurately modelling the photon detection process and measurement noise in imaging systems. To explore the full potential of penalized maximum-likelihood image reconstruction for lesion detection, we derived simplified theoretical expressions that allow fast evaluation of the detectability of a random lesion. The theoretical results are used to design the regularization parameters to improve lesion detectability. We conducted computer-based Monte Carlo simulations to compare the proposed penalty function, conventional penalty function, and a penalty function for isotropic point spread function. The lesion detectability is measured by a channelized Hotelling observer. The results show that the proposed penalty function outperforms the other penalty functions for lesion detection. The relative improvement is dependent on the size of the lesion. However, we found that the penalty function optimized for a 5 mm lesion still outperforms the other two penalty functions for detecting a 14 mm lesion. Therefore, it is feasible to use the penalty function designed for small lesions in image reconstruction, because detection of large lesions is relatively easy.
Impact of the lower energy threshold on the NEMA NU2-2001 count-rate performance of a LSO based PET-CT scanner.	The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of the lower energy threshold (LET) on the NEMA NU2-2001 count-rate performance of a LSO-based PET scanner (Siemens PET-CT Biograph Sensation 16). The quantitative measurements were focused on three different aspects: noise equivalent count rate (NEC), scatter fraction, and absolute sensitivity.
Investigations of cerebral glucose utilization into the newborn brain: a [18F]-FDG positron emission tomography study using a high resolution multiwire proportional chamber detector device.	An experimental approach is presented, where for the first time positron emission tomography (PET, the most important method for in vivo measuring the key functions of brain physiology and metabolism) was applied together with other techniques for quantitative-topological estimation of key parameters such as rCMRGlu in normal and disturbed brain function states in the newborn period.
A prototype high-purity germanium detector system with fast photon-counting circuitry for medical imaging.	A data-acquisition system designed for x-ray medical imaging utilizes a segmented high-purity germanium (HPGe) detector array with 2-mm wide and 6-mm thick elements. The detectors are contained within a liquid-nitrogen cryostat designed to minimize heat losses. The 50-ns pulse-shaping time of the preamplifier electronics is selected as the shortest time constant compatible with the 50-ns charge collection time of the detector. This provides the detection system with the fastest count-rate capabilities and immunity from microphonics, with moderate energy resolution performance. A theoretical analysis of the preamplifier electronics shows that its noise performance is limited primarily by its input capacitance, and is independent of detector leakage current up to approximately 100 nA. The system experimentally demonstrates count rates exceeding 1 million counts per second per element with an energy resolution of 7 keV for the 60-keV gamma ray photon from 241Am. The results demonstrate the performance of a data acquisition system utilizing HPGe detector systems which would be suitable for dual-energy imaging as well as systems offering simultaneous x-ray transmission and radionuclide emission imaging.
Physical performance characteristics of spiral CT scanning.	CT scanning in spiral geometry is achieved by continuously transporting the patient through the gantry in synchrony with continuous data acquisition over a multitude of 360-deg scans. Data for reconstruction of images in planar geometry are estimated from the spiral data by interpolation. The influence of spiral scanning on image quality is investigated. Most of the standard physical performance parameters, e.g., spatial resolution, image uniformity, and contrast, are not affected; results differ for pixel noise and slice sensitivity profiles. For linear interpolation, pixel noise is expected to be reduced by a factor of 0.82; reduction factors of 0.81 to 0.83 were measured. Slice sensitivity profiles are changed as a function of table feed d, measured in millimeters per 360-deg scan; they are smoothed as the original profile is convolved with the object motion function. The motion function is derived for linear interpolation that constitutes a triangle with a base line width of 2d and a maximal height equal to 1/d. Calculations of both the full width at half-maximum and the shape of the profiles were in good agreement with experimental results. The effect of the widened profiles, in particular of their extended tail ends, on image quality is demonstrated in phantom measurements.
The effects of collimation on PET image noise due to scatter, random counts, and deadtime.	The rates for true coincident events, scattered events, and singles in a Positron Emission Tomograph (PET) depend on the collimator size and shape. Monte Carlo techniques were used to compare efficiencies for wanted and unwanted events in multislice PET (MS-PET) and open collimator positron volumetric imaging (PVI) configurations. All systems used cylindrical arrays of bismuth germanate (BGO) or NaI crystals 51 cm in diameter and 10 cm deep suitable for whole brain imaging. The PVI systems detect about five times more true coincident events at low activity concentrations, but their scatter fraction is about three times higher. They are also much more sensitive to activity outside the scan field. As well as causing random counts when they fell within the energy acceptance window, single events are the main cause of deadtime. When the detectors are made from light-encoded blocks deadtime is the major limitation at high count rates. When discrete crystals are used, the efficiency is lower and the random count rates are a more significant source of noise. Noise-effective count rates are used to compare the relative cost in system performance among different systems and sources of noise.
Region of interest issues: the relationship between structure and function in the brain.	The comparison of data sets from individual subjects between imaging modalities is necessary in order to evaluate the normal physiologic responses of the brain or the pathophysiological changes that accompany disease states. Similarly, it is critical to compare data between individuals both within and across imaging modalities. In a collaborative project with a number of university groups, we have developed a system that allows for the within-subject alignment and registration of three-dimensional data sets obtained from different modalities for the same individuals. These data make use of proposed criteria for the optimal solution to positron emission tomography image acquisition and analysis originally established through a series of international workshops. The analysis takes into account errors induced by image acquisition, registration, and alignment with regard to scaling, translation, and rotation. Using the principles of morphometrics and homologous landmarks, the between-subject warping of individual brain anatomy to match that of other individuals, groups or an idealized model can be obtained. Resultant information can provide averaged between-subject data for populations of normal individuals or patients with specific neurologic disorders. Such a system, provides the means by which to compare objectively quantitative data between individuals in a highly automated fashion.
Quantitative comparison of measurements of cerebral glucose metabolic rate made with two positron cameras.	The rapid progress in PET technology has created the dilemma of how to compare data from old and new tomographs. We examined cerebral metabolic data from two scanners, with different spatial resolutions and methods of attenuation correction, to see if metabolic values from the lower-resolution tomograph (ECAT II) could be adjusted to make them comparable to data from the higher-resolution scanner (Scanditronix PC1024-7B). Nine subjects were scanned on both tomographs after a single injection of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Regional and lobar gray matter metabolic rates for glucose were obtained from comparable images from each scanner. Ratios of lobar to global gray matter metabolism also were calculated. Regression coefficients and percent differences were computed to compare ECAT II and PC1024 data. Two-thirds of the region pairs showed significant regressions, although percent differences were quite variable, with measures of glucose utilization ranging from 30 to 120% higher on the PC1024 compared to those from the ECAT II. Comparisons of lobar glucose rates between the two machines were less variable (50 to 80%), and ratios differed by only +/- 5% (except for the temporal ratios). Since there was no simple and consistent relationship between regional metabolic rates on the two tomographs, an overall adjustment of regional ECAT values for comparison to PC1024 values would be impossible. A region-by-region adjustment would be necessary. Lobar ratios are sufficiently similar that direct comparisons might be possible.
Biological correlates of mental activity studied with PET.	The development of newer imaging techniques that allow direct investigation of the function of the human brain under normal and pathological conditions has affected the way in which we conceive of the mind/brain relation. In this report the authors use examples from findings obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) to illustrate the highly interactive organization of the brain. Because operations in the brain require the participation of various brain areas, a model that does not require a one-to-one relationship between the physical and mental, but rather allows an association between clusters of physical processes and one or more mental phenomena, may reflect better the relation between physical brain phenomena and mental activities.
Radiologic equipment.	A summary of articles in the past year that were deemed pertinent to diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine equipment is presented. In diagnostic radiology, considerable work involving evaluation and considerations of digital schemes was noted, especially in chest radiography. Several review papers appeared that provide much information on digital techniques in one document. In the area of new developments, a design of a flat screen digital image intensifier has been reported, and a detection system for scanned projection radiography is described. As efficiency is quite important, the article concerning characteristics and evaluation of a 45-second film processor is timely. Developments in nuclear medicine included a four-headed scintillation camera, a new modular camera, and a new design for a positron emission scanner.
Variations in PET/CT methodology for oncologic imaging at U.S. academic medical centers: an imaging response assessment team survey.	In 2005, 8 Imaging Response Assessment Teams (IRATs) were funded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) as supplemental grants to existing NCI Cancer Centers. After discussion among the IRATs regarding the need for increased standardization of clinical and research PET/CT methodology, it became apparent that data acquisition and processing approaches differ considerably among centers. To determine the variability in detail, a survey of IRAT sites and IRAT affiliates was performed.
Variations in clinical PET/CT operations: results of an international survey of active PET/CT users.	This study gathered information about clinical PET/CT operations worldwide to help guide discussions on the use and standardization of clinical PET/CT.
Positron emission tomography in clinical cardiology.	Positron emission tomography of the heart is a physiologic imaging technique that enables both qualitative and quantitative assessment of regional myocardial blood flow and substrate utilization. Exercise or dipyridamole perfusion imaging with PET is both sensitive and specific for detecting coronary disease and may prove clinically useful in assessing the physiologic significance of anatomically defined stenoses and for noninvasively following stenosis progression or regression. PET can be used to localize and quantitate the extent of antecedent myocardial infarction, and frequently identifies viable tissue when routinely utilized clinical tests indicate completed infarction. The tissue characterization afforded by metabolic imaging with PET in coronary heart disease allows non-invasive identification of viable but jeopardized tissue in a variety of clinical ischemic syndromes, thereby permitting the cardiologist to intervene in anticipation of myocardial salvage. As future developments in PET imaging occur, our understanding of the basic biochemical abnormalities characterizing myocardial ischemia will be utilized with increasing frequency to improve the clinical care provided to patients with coronary heart disease.
Design concepts and preliminary performances of stationary-sampling whole-body high-resolution positron emission tomography: HEADTOME IV]	Design concepts and preliminary performances of a stationary sampling high-resolution whole-body positron emission tomograph, HEADTOME IV, were reported. The system comprises four layers of detector ring which consists of 768 BGO crystals with 3 mm width, 96 photomultiplier tubes arrayed on 825 mm circle. A sufficiently fine sampling-interval allows data sampling without scan motion along the transaxial plane. But an axial motion (Z-motion) is installed to interlace between adjacent planes. Preliminary performance characteristics were an in-plane resolution of 4.5 mm in full width at half maximum (FWHM), an axial resolution of 9.5 mm in FWHM, sensitivities of 14 and 24 kcps/(microCi/ml) for direct and cross planes, respectively, with 20 cm diam. cylindrical flood phantom. A large scale cache memory prepared for each plane allows a realtime correction for the deadtime and the radionuclide decay, and a realtime calculation of the rate constants using the weighted integral method.
The performance of a multiwire proportional chamber positron camera for clinical use.	The Rutherford Appleton Laboratory clinical positron camera consists of two opposed multiwire proportional chambers (MWPCS) mounted on a rotating gantry capable of performing routine nuclear medicine studies. The system has operated since the end of 1986 with complete reliability. It has a sensitivity of 37 kcps MBq-1 cm3 per axial cm for a 20 cm diameter uniformly filled cylinder of activity. The best spatial resolution obtainable is about 6 mm, although in practice images are smoothed in order to reduce statistical noise with a corresponding decrease in resolution. Cross-plane rays are utilised during image reconstruction and the resulting three-dimensional images exhibit the same spatial resolution in three orthogonal directions over a large cylindrical field of view 15 cm high by 30 cm in diameter. The maximum data-taking rate is limited to 1.5 to 2 kcps at present due to deadtime in the read-out system. The performance of the system is described with particular reference to the problems of imaging with the large fractions of random and scattered events which are a consequence of using large-area detectors. Images of phantoms and patients are presented and proposed modifications to the camera are described.
Median polish for quality assurance of a PET scanner.	Sensitivity data for the PC 4600, a multiplanar positron emission tomograph system, were obtained over a period of several months during installation and routine clinical operation. These data were analyzed using the exploratory data analysis techniques of median polish (MP), box and whisker plots, and coded residuals. These techniques proved to be useful in spotting trends and identifying problems. Median polish had advantages over traditional percent difference techniques under some conditions because it allows separate study of more than one effect and is particularly resistant to the influence of outliers. The other exploratory data analysis techniques used are of value in interpreting the results of the MP procedure. The methods presented have direct application to any quantitative multiplanar emission tomographic imaging quality assurance program.
In vivo quantitation using SPECT of radiopharmaceutical uptake by human meningiomas.	A single photon emission computed tomographic method was designed for the measurement of radiopharmaceutical uptake in brain tumors. Results of phantom studies showed a correlation coefficient of .99 when measured volume was compared with actual volume. The correlation coefficient for measured radioactivity concentration compared with the actual concentration was .97. In 13 meningiomas the correlation between in vivo SPECT measurements of uptake and in vitro measurements in samples of the same tumors removed surgically was .84; when two tumors that contained regions of necrosis and fibrosis were excluded it was .93. This method can be used for in vivo quantitative assessment of pharmacokinetics of labeled drug uptake in human brain tumors.
Gastric sequential scintigraphy. Methodology with liquid isotonic meal.	The radioisotopic measurement of gastric emptying offers information about an aspect of gastric motility. A procedure performed in our laboratory is presented. It is based on the ingestion of 500 ml saline including 1 mCi (3.7 MBq)113m In-DTPA or 99Tc-DTPA. The subject is placed in a half-supine position. Radioactive counts of the tracer are collected with a gammacamera and processed with a microcomputer, using a special program. This offers the histograms of the whole stomach and of the regions of interest (proximal and distal stomach), and also the half-time of these curves. Normal values range between 8-25 min for each curve half-time. The method has applications in physiology, pharmacology and clinical diagnosis.
A 6 mm collimator system for the EMI CT5000/5005 whole body scanner.	A new 6 mm collimator for the EMI CT5000/5005 scanner is described. It consists of a narrower tube side and detector side collimator that can be set up in less than 5 min. The applications are primarily for the orbit and parasellar area. Future applications with the aid of new software include coronal reconstruction.
Anatomical-functional correlation using an adjustable MRI-based region of interest atlas with positron emission tomography.	A procedure is described for combining anatomical information from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computerized tomography (CT) and functional information from positron emission tomography (PET) in a rapid fashion. MRI data are combined with a procedure for the definition, storage, and recall of anatomically based regions of interest. An atlas of standard regions of interest, defined for a set of 18 parallel planes spaced at 6-mm intervals, provides an initial region of interest template for each patient slice. Global adjustments to scale, orientation, and position are applied to obtain an initial match. Individual regions of interest may then be moved, deleted, or redrawn as needed. The ability to store region of interest templates ensures reproducibility of analysis over long periods and introduces a standardization of analysis technique. In 25 brain structures, the mean coefficient of variation in cerebral glucose utilization rate (CMRGlc) measurements among five neuroanatomically trained observers was reduced from 8.1% for manual region of interest definition to 4.0% using the template approach with MRI. Template analysis for space-occupying lesions such as tumors or infarcts is illustrated with PET data from a stroke study, emphasizing the facility for rapid, reproducible analysis of multifunctional studies. MRI-PET matching for a structurally intact caudate nucleus having reduced CMRGlc in Huntington's disease emphasizes the accuracy of anatomical localization required to quantify small structures.
A system for the automatic processing of radionuclide research (the SAORI-01) in clinical practice]	The author described the results of clinical testing of a system CAOPH-01 designed for automated collection, storage and processing of data on radionuclide investigations. He gave examples of automated processing of RCG and the results of positive scintigraphy of tumors of different sites using 67Ga-citrate and 99mTc-pertechnetate in statistical and dynamic investigations. Short-comings and ways for updating 4 the system during its serial production were pointed out. The introduction of the system into clinical practice on a wide scale was shown to hold promise.
Options in camera technology for the bone scan: role of SPECT.	Planar imaging with current generation gamma cameras and tomographic imaging with current generation rotating camera single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) systems provide excellent spatial resolution and good fidelity between image quantitation and activity levels. Their use in imaging the localization and clearance of skeletal imaging agents such as the Tc-99m labeled diphosphonates, Ga-67 citrate, and In-111 leukocytes offers a sensitive and accurate means to detect occult disease and to investigate skeletal blood flow, metabolism, and pathology. SPECT progressively plays an increasingly important role in imaging studies of joint disease, infection, avascular necrosis, bone growth, developmental abnormalities and the effects of weight bearing, exercise, and other forms of treatment on skeletal repair processes.
Pharmacologic intervention as an alternative to exercise stress.	Although thallium exercise imaging has served an important role in clinical cardiology, it is significantly limited by suboptimal sensitivity and specificity, particularly in asymptomatic man. The increasing recognition of silent myocardial ischemia, the significant prevalence of coronary artery disease in asymptomatic middle age men, and the frequent occurrence of myocardial infarction without preceding symptoms in 60% of cases emphasizes the need for a more definitive, noninvasive diagnostic test for the presence of coronary artery disease suitable for screening in asymptomatic or symptomatic patients. Intravenous dipyridamole combined with handgrip stress provides a potent stimulus for purposes of diagnostic perfusion imaging. Although planar and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging also have played an important role, these techniques are seriously hindered by their inability to quantitate radiotracer uptake or image modest differences in maximum relative flow caused by coronary artery stenosis. Accordingly, the combination of dipyridamole-handgrip stress with positron imaging of myocardial perfusion has become a powerful diagnostic tool suitable for routine clinical use. With the availability of generator-produced rubidium-82, dedicated clinically oriented positron cameras, the routine application of positron imaging to clinical cardiology has become feasible. Based on published literature, the current clinical indications for positron imaging that may be carried out economically on a routine clinical basis include assessment of myocardial perfusion utilizing rubidium-82 or N-13 ammonia for purposes of reliable, accurate, noninvasive screening for coronary artery disease in symptomatic or asymptomatic patients; assessing noninvasively the physiologic severity of coronary stenoses; myocardial infarct imaging; assessing myocardial viability of reversibly injured or ischemic cells using N-13 ammonia combined with fluorine-18-deoxy-glucose or Rubidium-82 alone in experimental animals; assessing regional or global left ventricle (LV) function by 3-dimensional gated blood pool imaging and/or wall thickening by ECG gating; and assessing the functional significance of collaterals in man.
Dual isotope (81Krm and 99Tcm) SPECT in lung function diagnosis.	A method is presented for deriving regional values for lung volume, ventilation, perfusion and dV/dQ ratios suitably plotted for clinical interpretation. Necessary data are obtained from a 12 min dual-head, dual isotope (81Krm and 99Tcm) SPECT acquisition and subsequent graphics and image processing. Computed histograms make possible a detailed quantitative impression of lung function.
Effect of detector sensitivity on the accuracy of results of radionuclide kidney studies]	In the course of both kidney gammachronography with an isolated detector and kidney scintigraphy with a gamma camera the detector volume sensitivity is calculated. Mathematical model of the kidney is described as a set of superimposed linear-circular cylinders. Based on the CT examinations a cylinder radius and a thickness of soft tissues attenuating gamma radiation are derived. The detector volume sensitivity is found to change up to 34% in kidney gammachronography and up to 22% in kidney scintigraphy when using low power radionuclides.
Experimental study on the collimator for increasing the resolution of N-isopropyl-p-(123I)iodoamphetamine (IMP) SPECT imaging of the brain.	This study was carried out to design a new collimator for the present 123I-IMP SPECT imaging of the brain, which is hindered by the contamination of 124I and 126I. In this study we intended to increase spacial resolution along the transaxial direction and, at the same time, to compensate for the decrease of sensitivity by sacrificing the resolution along the axial direction to some extent. For this purpose, we developed 4 kinds of slat type units; ultrahigh resolution (UHR), high resolution (HR), high sensitivity (HS), and ultrahigh sensitivity (UHS). In practice, either UHR or HR is set to the detector together with either HS or UHS. After testing 4 kinds of combinations, we found that the combination of UHR-HS gave us far better images than those obtained with the conventional medium energy parallel hole collimator and was best suited for 123I-IMP SPECT imaging of the brain at present. We are now thinking of fusing these two units together into one collimator.
High density avalanche chamber (HIDAC) positron camera.	A prototype positron camera has been constructed consisting of two high density avalanche chamber (HIDAC) detectors operated in coincidence with a resolving time (2 tau) of 40 nsec. The detectors are multiwire chambers, with specially constructed lead converters added to improve the photon detection efficiency at 511 keV. The current HIDAC detectors have a singles efficiency of approximately 12%, a sensitive area of 31 X 31 cm and an intrinsic spatial resolution of less than 2 mm full width at half maximum (FWHM). During data acquisition, the detectors are rotated around the patient in order to collect a complete angular data set. A three-dimensional image of the positron distribution is reconstructed from a single scan by weighted backprojection of the data into a matrix of either 64 X 64 X 64 or 128 X 128 X 16 voxels. The camera point response function is deconvolved by frequency-space filtering. Corrections are made during backprojection both for photon attenuation and for spatial variations in point source sensitivity. The reconstructed image is further corrected for contributions from accidental and scattered coincidences and displayed as a sequence of two-dimensional transverse, sagittal, or coronal sections. In addition, three-dimensional display is available using shaded graphics techniques. The prototype camera is currently undergoing clinical evaluation.
Measurement of collimator hole angulation and camera head tilt for slant and parallel hole collimators used in SPECT.	Collimator hole angulation was measured at 16 locations in three collimators used in SPECT. The parallel hole collimator measured -0.1 +/- -0.1 s.d. degrees in the X and -0.2 +/- 0.1 s.d. degrees in the Y direction. One 30 degree nominal slant hole collimator revealed a 0.1 +/- 0.3 s.d. degrees angulation in X and 26.5 +/- 1.1 s.d. degrees angulation in Y, which was unacceptable. The replacement collimator measured 0.0 +/- 0.1 s.d. degrees in X and 29.6 +/- 0.2 s.d. degrees in Y. Determination of collimator hole angulation is recommended as an acceptance test for SPECT systems. The net angle of tilt with respect to the orthogonal resulting from a particular collimator and camera head tilt was determined from summed projection images over 360 degrees of a point source placed off the axis of rotation. These measurements were sensitive within a 0.5 degree tilt angle. The method is suggested as a routine quality control procedure to optimize camera head tilt to a particular collimator. It may also reveal unexpected mechanical misalignments in the camera gantry.
Three dimensional image correlation of CT, MR, and PET studies in radiotherapy treatment planning of brain tumors.	A treatment planning system for stereotactic convergent beam irradiation of deeply localized brain tumors is reported. The treatment technique consists of several moving field irradiations in noncoplanar planes at a linear accelerator facility. Using collimated narrow beams, a high concentration of dose within small volumes with a dose gradient of 10-15%/mm was obtained. The dose calculation was based on geometrical information of multiplanar CT or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging data. The patient's head was fixed in a stereotactic localization system, which is usable at CT, MR, and positron emission tomography (PET) installations. Special computer programs for correction of the geometrical MR distortions allowed a precise correlation of the different imaging modalities. The therapist can use combinations of CT, MR, and PET data for defining target volume. For instance, the superior soft tissue contrast of MR coupled with the metabolic features of PET may be a useful addition in the radiation treatment planning process. Furthermore, other features such as calculated dose distribution to critical structures can also be transferred from one set of imaging data to another and can be displayed as three-dimensional shaded structures.
Use of a germanium detector to optimize scatter correction in SPECT.	A collimated germanium detector with an energy resolution of 1 keV full width at half maximum at 140 keV was used to measure the energy spectrum of radiation emitted from a test object containing an asymmetric distribution of 99mTc and nonuniform attenuation. Energy spectra were recorded from 24 positions around the object and convolved with Gaussian functions to simulate data that would have been acquired with a scintillation camera. The scatter fraction was computed from the convolved spectra in conjunction with a scatter-free reference spectrum. After adding appropriate Poisson noise, a technique based on maximizing the signal to noise ratio was developed to optimally subtract the scatter fraction from the recorded counts. SPECT imaging of the test object was performed to evaluate the correction technique.
Two devices for longitudinal emission tomography of the thyroid.	Two devices especially designed for tomographic thyroid imaging are compared on the basis of phantom experiments and four patients studies: a seven pinhole (7P) collimator and a time-coded aperture (TCA). The results of patient studies show that the 7P collimator may miss smaller abnormalities and is prone to incorrect positioning. The TCA reconstructions of patient data confirm the good performance observed in the phantom studies and demonstrate a high degree of lesion detectability. The TCA also provides higher efficiency and shorter imaging times than the 7P collimator. It is therefore concluded that TCA imaging is a promising alternative to multiple view pinhole imaging of the thyroid.
Isotope computed tomography using cone-beam geometry: a comparison of two reconstruction algorithms.	A CT scanner has been constructed specifically to determine the three-dimensional distribution of bone mineral in the medullary cavities of the radius, ulna and femur. A source of x-rays (153Gd) and a multiwire proportional counter (MWPC) are mounted at opposite ends of a diameter of an annular mounting. The limb is placed on the axis of rotation of the annulus and a series of two-dimensional transmission projections are obtained at equal angular spacings over 360 degrees. The distribution of bone mineral is reconstructed from the projections either by the method of maximum entropy (ME) or by convolution and back projection (CBP). These two methods have been evaluated by reconstructing a single slice of a phantom, representing the forearm, from projections simulated by computer. With a clinically acceptable exposure time, the mean medullary densities of the ulna and radius were determined with systematic errors of less than 3.5% (ME) and 11% (CBP), although for the latter method of reconstruction the systematic error was reduced to less than 2% by increasing the number of views. The mean medullary densities of the ulna and radius were determined with precisions better than 2.5% (ME) and 3.5% (CBP).
New nuclear medical technologies for pediatrics.	Nuclear medicine is very helpful for pediatric diagnostics because it provides noninvasive methods for the evaluation of physiologic functions and for the imaging of tumours, metastases and inflammatory diseases. These examinations can be done with very low risk and with low radiation burden for the children. New technologies help us to get more detailed diagnostic information and to reduce further the radiation. The most important developments in this field allow the clinical use of radioisotopes with extremely short lifetimes combined with a very low radiation exposure, imaging of tumours by new radioactive labelled tumour-markers, the measurement of heart functions and blood flow through the use of computerized gammacameras with digital imaging processing capabilities and the three-dimensional imaging of radioactive tracers within the body.
Role of radionuclides in acute cardiac care: current status.	The aforementioned studies demonstrate the varied and important clinical information concerning acute myocardial infarctions that is obtainable from certain radionuclide procedures. Limitations of these procedures as well as futuristic improvements are also discussed.
Deadtime measurements with a multihole phantom: concise communication.	The performance characteristics of any Anger camera are defined by that camera's spatial and temoral resolutions. Procedures using first-past techniques--such as ejection fraction or left-to-right shunt determinations--require that deadtimes be minimal. We have evaluated a simplified method for measuring a camera's deadtime; it uses a multihole phantom consisting of a lead sheet with 196 holes, 7/16 in. diameter, arranged in a 14 X 14 matrix. Each hole can be filled with a removable lead plug. Count rates are determined following incremental removal of the plugs. Deadtime curves were generated for each of three cameras by this and standard techniques. For each camera, the three curves were virtually identical. Using the phantom, deadtimes could be determined in 15 to 20 min. This phantom provides a simple, rapid, and accurate means of determining camera deadtime and minimizing personnel radiation exposure.
A computer program for reconstruction of images from a scanning gamma camera.	A program  was written to convert the output of a scanning gamma camera into a whole body computer image which can then be used to study regional and whole body radiopharmaceutical localization. The electronically masked output of the camera is collected as a dynamic study on the computer with the time per frame set according to scan speed. The program overlays these frames onto a matrix in memory to form the image. The overlayed frame is incremented 1 pixel/frame in the direction of camera motion during camera scanning. The timing of camera motion is automatically determined by the program. Although written for a specific scanning gamma camera, the ideas inherent in the algorithm will allow the reconstruction of whole body images from other scanning cameras.
Single-photon emission tomography with a 12-pinhole collimator.	To assess the advantages of more complete angular sampling and of more views in the tomographic reconstruction process, tomographic imaging with a 12-pinhole (12PH) collimator has been compared with 7-pinhole tomography (7PH). The 12PH system gives a 50% increase in sensitivity but resolution degrades more rapidly with depth. The 7PH and 12PH systems provide similar accuracy of detection of lesions in a myocardial ring phantom. The 7PH images, however, demonstrated more noise and "ripple" artifacts. The 12PH system offers a larger reconstruction volume and generates fewer artifacts when the collimator is misaligned with the myocardial long-axis, thus making patient positioning less critical than with 7PH. A disadvantage is that individual views are minified by the 12PH collimator, and a 256 X 256 image matrix should be used during image acquisition to limit digital sampling errors.
Specifying dual-detector gamma cameras and associated computer systems.	Increasingly, dual-detector gamma cameras are being purchased as replacements for single-headed cameras. The improvement in sensitivity offered by a dual-detector device can be used in several ways: to shorten acquisition times, to improve signal-to-noise ratios, or to reduce administered doses. This paper focuses on the practical aspects of dual-headed devices and aims to provide some guidance for potential purchasers in the drawing up of an equipment specification.
Pulmonary studies using positron emission tomography.	The detailed investigation of regional differences in lung function at a local level began when suitable gamma-ray emitting isotopes and focused external radiation detectors (especially the Anger gamma-camera) became available. A major recent advance has been the development of positron emission tomography (PET), which provides a powerful combination of highly accurate tomographic reconstruction of radioisotope concentration with a potentially unlimited list of biological compounds to be labelled with the positron emitting isotopes of oxygen, carbon and fluorine. Early studies using PET focused on the inhalation of 11CO (or C15O) and 19Ne gases and the intravenous injection of 13N in saline and H215O for the measurement of relatively simple aspects of regional lung function, such as tissue, blood and gas volumes, blood flow, ventilation and ventilation/perfusion (V'A/Q'). More recent work has been directed towards the more challenging areas of regional endothelial permeability, carbohydrate utilization, enzyme and receptor binding assays, and in vivo pharmacokinetics. The short physical half-lives of the isotopes (17 s to 2 h) and the noninvasive nature of PET allows serial measurements to be made on patients (within the constraints of permitted radiation doses) to assess the effect of physiological and therapeutic interventions.
Use of a magnetic field to increase the spatial resolution of positron emission tomography.	Detector geometry, spatial sampling, and more fundamentally, positron range and noncollinearity of annihilation photon emission define Positron Emission Tomography (PET) spatial resolution. In this paper, a strong magnetic field is used to constrain positron travel transverse to the field. Measurement of the spread function from a 500 microns diameter 68Ga impregnated resin bead shows a squeezing of the full width at half maximum (FWHM) by a factor of 1.0, 1.22, 1.42, and 2.05, at 0, 4.0, 5.0, and 9.4 Tesla, respectively. The full width at tenth maximum (FWTM) decreases by a factor of 1.0, 1.73, 2.09, and 3.20, at 0, 4.0, 5.0, and 9.0 Tesla, respectively. Acquiring a PET image in a magnetic field should significantly reduce resolution loss due to positron range.
Responses of blood flow, oxygen consumption, and contractile function to inotropic stimulation in stunned canine myocardium.	To examine the effects of inotropic stimulation on regional myocardial blood flow (MBF), oxidative metabolism, and contractile function in stunned myocardium, nine closed-chest dogs were studied 2 hours postreperfusion after a 25 minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). MBF was determined with microspheres, and regional myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2) was estimated from the rate constant k1 of the rapid clearance phase of [1-11C] acetate time activity curves, recorded with dynamic positron emission tomography. Myocardium at risk was determined from [13N] ammonia images obtained during occlusion. Wall motion, assessed by two-dimensional echocardiography, was impaired in postischemic myocardium in all dogs 2 hours after reperfusion. Dobutamine infusion increased the rate pressure product by 70% +/- 31% and significantly improved contractile function in the postischemic region in all dogs. In remote myocardium, MVO2 increased from 5.7 +/- 1.2 to 8.6 +/- 1.6 mumol/gm/min, and blood flow from 0.87 +/- 0.16 to 1.52 +/- 0.42 ml/gm/min in response to dobutamine. In reperfused myocardium, MVO2 increased from 3.1 +/- 0.7 to 7.4 +/- 1.5 mumol/gm/min, and blood flow from 0.51 +/- 0.12 to 1.2 +/- 0.4 ml/gm/min. Oxygen extraction increased significantly in reperfused myocardium relative to remote myocardium consistent with a flow-limited response to dobutamine stimulation. The improvement in contractile function failed to correlate significantly with relative increases in MBF or MVO2, suggesting that mechanical function is not as tightly coupled as MBF and MVO2 in postischemic myocardium during inotropic stimulation.
A new iterative reconstruction technique for attenuation correction in high-resolution positron emission tomography.	A new iterative reconstruction technique (NIRT) for positron emission computed tomography (PET), which uses transmission data for nonuniform attenuation correction, is described. Utilizing the general inverse problem theory, a cost functional which includes a noise term was derived. The cost functional was minimized using a weighted-least-square maximum a posteriori conjugate gradient (CG) method. The procedure involves a change in the Hessian of the cost function by adding an additional term. Two phantoms were used in a real data acquisition. The first was a cylinder phantom filled with uniformly distributed activity of 74 MBq of fluorine-18. Two different inserts were placed in the phantom. The second was a Hoffman brain phantom filled with uniformly distributed activity of 7.4 MBq of 18F. Resulting reconstructed images were used to test and compare a new iterative reconstruction technique with a standard filtered backprojection (FBP) method. The results confirmed that NIRT, based on the conjugate gradient method, converges rapidly and provides good reconstructed images. In comparison with standard results obtained by the FBP method, the images reconstructed by NIRT showed better noise properties. The noise was measured as rms% noise and was less, by a factor of 1.75, in images reconstructed by NIRT than in the same images reconstructed by FBP. The distance between the Hoffman brain slice reconstructed by FBP and the perfect PET Hoffman brain slice created from the MRI image was 0.526, while the same distance for the Hoffman brain slice reconstructed by NIRT was 0.328. The NIRT method suppressed the propagation of the noise without visible loss of resolution in the reconstructed PET images.
Preliminary results for positron emission mammography: real-time functional breast imaging in a conventional mammography gantry.	In order to optimally integrate radiotracer breast imaging within the breast clinic, anatomy and pathology should be easily correlated with functional nuclear medicine breast images. As a first step in the development of a hybrid functional/anatomic breast imaging platform with biopsy capability, a conventional X-ray mammography gantry was modified to image the compressed breast with positron emitters. Phantom studies with the positron emission mammography (PEM) device showed that a 1-cc hot spot could be detected within 5 min. A preliminary clinical trial demonstrated in vivo visualization of primary breast cancer within 4 min. For sites where positron-emitting radionuclides are available, PEM promises to achieve low-cost directed functional examination of breast abnormalities, with the potential for achieving X-ray correlation and image-guided biopsy.
Model-based scatter correction for fully 3D PET.	A method is presented that directly calculates the mean number of scattered coincidences in data acquired with fully 3D positron emission tomography (PET). This method uses a transmission scan, an emission scan, the physics of Compton scatter, and a mathematical model of the scanner in a forward calculation of the number of events for which one photon has undergone a single Compton interaction. The distribution of events for which multiple Compton interactions have occurred is modelled as a linear transformation of the single-scatter distribution. Computational efficiency is achieved by sampling at rates no higher than those required by the scatter distribution and by implementing the algorithm using look-up tables. Evaluation studies in phantoms with large scatter fractions show that the method yields images with quantitative accuracy equivalent to that of slice-collimated PET in clinically useful times.
A spheroid positron emission tomograph for brain imaging: a feasibility study.	It has been long recognized that the primary advantage of imaging the brain with a positron emission tomography using GSO scintillation detectors placed on a spheroid surface is the large solid angle of acceptance for annihilation radiation, which results in improved system sensitivity and image signal-to-noise ratio. In the present study, we investigated spheroid system geometry, detector design and contribution of scattered coincidences.
State of the art in emission tomography equipment.	The current state of the art in single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) equipment is based on developments over the last 35 years, including those items necessary to make the devices clinically useful. In SPECT, most of the development has involved rotating gamma cameras, since this device could also be used for conventional planar imaging. Recent advances involve the use of multiheaded SPECT cameras and have led to a substantial increase in image quality with these devices. Historically, attenuation correction in SPECT has been applied only to brain and abdominal studies. Currently, the application of nonuniform attenuation correction for cardiac studies, which typically requires acquisition of a transmission scan, has been investigated. Over the past 10 years, greater interest in the clinical application of PET has led to design changes in the equipment used for chemistry and scanning. Modern cyclotrons are typically smaller, self-shielded, and less complicated to run than older models. PET scanners can now image multiple planes over an extended axial field of view with approximately equal spatial resolution in all directions. Advancements in emission tomography have made these technologies more accessible for clinical application.
Combined FDG and [F-18]fluoride whole-body PET: a feasible two-in-one approach to cancer imaging?	To evaluate the diagnostic usefulness of the combined application of 2-[fluorine-18]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG; for the evaluation of soft tissue) and [F-18]fluoride (for the evaluation of the skeleton) in positron emission tomography (PET) of cancer.
Can dual-headed 18F-FDG SPET imaging reliably supersede PET in clinical oncology? A comparative study in lung and gastrointestinal tract cancer.	In this study, we prospectively compared the sensitivity of PET and planar SPET (collimated gamma camera) 18F-FDG imaging in patients with lung and gastrointestinal tract cancer and analysed their respective impact on patient management. Twenty-eight patients with lung cancer and 14 with gastro-intestinal tract tumours were scanned on the same day with a PET and a collimated planar SPET gamma camera. The planar SPET procedure consisted of whole-body planar views and a tomographic acquisition centred over the torso or the abdomen, with the total imaging time within the same range as the whole-body PET procedure. The staging of lung cancer patients was accurate in 86% with PET and 64% with planar SPET. Planar SPET would have led to inappropriate therapeutic decisions in 8 of 28 patients, mainly due to undetected distant metastases. In patients with suspected gastrointestinal tract cancer, planar SPET identified 7 of 15 (47%) proven tumour sites, whereas PET identified 14 of 15 (93%). Our results suggest that collimated planar SPET cameras are not a substitute for dedicated PET scanners. The sensitivity for the detection of tumours is unacceptably low and can impair patient management. The use of multiple tomographic acquisitions could improve the sensitivity but would require a longer scanning time.
Positron emission tomography (PET) methodology for small animals and its application in radiopharmaceutical preclinical investigation.	The use and usefulness of positron emission tomography (PET) to quantify the specific and selective in vivo binding of radioligands in small laboratory animals is briefly reviewed up to the end of 1996. Emphasis is placed on practical experience with a dedicated, small diameter, tomograph (built in collaboration with CTI, Knoxville, TN), implementing conventional PET methodology.
In vivo radiolabel quantification in small-animal models.	Current developments in emission tomography especially designed for small-animal imaging are presented. Adaptations of the human tomography principles take advantage of the smaller field of view to achieve about 2-mm usable resolution. Some evaluations in rat tomography are presented, and the problems of limiting resolution of PET and SPECT systems are discussed. Finally, a new approach that more specifically takes into account the parameters induced by in vivo quantification in rodents is presented.
Normal values for left ventricular volumes obtained using gated PET.	Accurate assessment of left ventricular (LV) volumes provides important insights into myocardial function, being particularly important for diseases of the heart in which there is progressive dilatation of the LV, such as remodeling after myocardial infarction. We have recently validated a method for measuring LV volumes using gated positron emission tomography (PET) with oxygen-15 labeled carbon monoxide (C15O). The present study was performed to establish normal values for LV volumes, in absolute units, using this technique.
