Obesity, Type II diabetes and the Ala54Thr polymorphism of fatty acid binding protein 2 in the Tongan population.	Genetic variation of fatty acid binding protein 2 (FABP2) may contribute to the high prevalence of obesity and Type II diabetes in Tonga. To explore this we assessed the frequency of the FABP2 Ala54Thr polymorphism, obesity, and Type II diabetes in Tongans and possible inter-relationships. We investigated 1022 Tongan subjects, 433 men and 589 women aged 15-85 years, to identify possible associations between the FABP2 Ala54Thr polymorphism, obesity, Type II diabetes, BMI, glucose tolerance and standard lipid variables. The prevalence of the polymorphism was compared with that reported for other ethnic populations (studies from: Japanese, Finnish, African American, Native Canadian and Inuit, Swedish, Guadeloupe Indians, European males, and Caucasian populations). We found that 84% of the Tongan men and 93% of the Tongan women were overweight or obese (BMI> or =25kg/m2). The mean BMI+/-SD was not significantly different among those who were and were not carrying the Thr allele (males: Ala/Ala 30.4+/-5.4 and Thr carriers 29.8+/-5.1; females: Ala/Ala 33.8+/-6.4 and Thr carriers 33.6+/-5.1). The genotype frequencies were 76.2% Ala/Ala, 22.8% Ala/Thr, and 1.0% Thr/Thr. The Alal/Ala frequency is higher than the prevalences reported for all populations studied. The Thr allele was significantly associated with lower total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol in both sexes and in women also with lower HDL cholesterol. We conclude that there is a high prevalence of the FABP2 Ala54Thr polymorphism in Tongans. The polymorphism may be involved in lipid metabolism as the Thr allele is associated with low total and LDL cholesterol levels in this population.
The migration of doctors and nurses from South Pacific Island Nations.	Little is known of the structure of the international migration of skilled health professionals. Accelerated migration of doctors and nurses from the Pacific island states of Fiji, Samoa and Tonga to the Pacific periphery is part of the globalization of health care. The findings from a recent survey of 251 doctors and nurses from the three island countries are reported here. Key determinants of both present migration status and future migration intentions were analyzed using econometric methods. Nurses' and doctors' propensities to migrate are influenced by both income and non-income factors, including ownership of businesses and houses. Migrants also tend to have more close relatives overseas, to have trained there, and so experienced superior working conditions. Migration propensities vary between countries, and between nurses and doctors within countries. Tongan nurses have a higher propensity to migrate, mainly because of greater relative earnings differentials, but are also more likely to return home. The role of kinship ties, relative income differentials and working conditions is evident in other developing country contexts. Remittances and return migration, alongside business investment, bring some benefits to compensate for the skill drain. National development policies should focus on encouraging return migration, alongside retention and recruitment, but are unlikely to prevent out migration.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: complications and experiences in Tonga.	Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy is a safe option but expensive for Pacific countries. This paper reviewed the procedure and its complications and reflects on the experience of surgeons in Tonga. It concluded that this procedure is viable and desirable for patients in Tonga but suggests that the opportunity costs of the equipment should be considered in the light of many other competing health needs.
The First Tongan Health Professionals Conference: seeking cultural democracy for health.	The Tongan Nurses Association of New Zealand (TNA) organized the First Tongan health Professionals Conference as part of workforce Project funded by the Ministry of Health in supporting Pacific professional organizations. The conference theme was Cultural Democracy as an overarching philosophy for provision of ethnic specific health and social services in. New Zealand. The underlying motive for the conference was to place nurses in the context of health professionals and to promote the idea that Tongan nurses are needed and are willing to support all Tongan health workers. New Zealand. Dr Debbie Ryan, Chief Advisor Pacific Health to the New Zealand Minister of Health, opened the Conference. Several other Tongan health professionals expounded on the achievement of Tongan health workers in New Zealand and noted that these achievements were closely associated with their beliefs in "Tonganess" and the unique place all Pacificans have in New Zealand health. This conference generated much enthusiasm for Tongan ethnic specific health service provision, health work in general and nursing in particular. The fact that the nurses organized the First Tongan Health Professionals Conference was seen as a unique leadership initiative, emanating from the good will and trust usually expected of the Tongan nursing professionals at the health service level and in the community. There was desire to continue this type of ethic specific approach to enhance equity and decrease health disparities in New Zealand.
Prioritizing policy interventions to improve diets? Will it work, can it happen, will it do harm?	Policies from non-health sectors have considerable impacts on the food environment and in turn on population nutrition. Health impact assessment (HIA) methods have been developed to identify the potential health effects of non-health policies; however, they are underused both within and outside the health sector. HIA and other assessment methods and tools can be used more extensively in health promotion to assist with the identification of the best policy options to pursue to improve and protect health. A participatory process is presented in this paper which combines HIAs with feasibility and effectiveness assessments. The intention is to enable health promoters to more accurately identify which policy change options would be most likely to improve diets, considering both impact and likelihood of implementation. The process was successfully used in Fiji and Tonga and provided a more systematic way of understanding which policy interventions showed the most promise.
The impact of socio-cultural context on young people's condom use: evidence from two Pacific Island countries.	Young people are a key group for HIV prevention in the Pacific region where levels of STIs are high and condom use is low. During 2008, 62 in-depth interviews were conducted with people aged between 18 and 25 years in Tonga and Vanuatu. The research was aimed at understanding factors impacting on young peoples' condom use in two Pacific Island nations. The data show a marked disjuncture between attitudes and practice with regard to condoms. This paper discusses factors underpinning that inconsistency and directs attention to the effect of social and cultural influences on young people's condom use. The authors conclude that individual-level approaches to improving rates of condom use will be inadequate unless they are informed by an understanding of the role of identity, culture and tradition in young peoples' decisions around condom use. The findings also underline the need for country-specific approaches to condom promotion efforts in the Pacific.
Lehualides E-K, cytotoxic metabolites from the Tongan marine sponge Plakortis sp.	Spectroscopy-guided chemical analysis of a marine sponge from the genus Plakortis, collected in Tonga, yielded seven new metabolites of polyketide origin, lehualides E-K (5-11), four of which incorporate various sulfur functionalities. The structures of compounds 5-11 were elucidated by interpretation of spectroscopic data and spectral comparison with model compounds. The biological activities of compounds 6-9 were investigated against human promyeloid leukemic HL-60 cells and two yeast strains, wild-type and a drug-sensitive mutant.
Body satisfaction among adolescents in eight different countries.	The current study examined body satisfaction and the value of body size among adolescents in Australia, Fiji, Malaysia, Tonga, Tongans in New Zealand, China, Chile and Greece. In total, 2489 adolescent females and 2152 males participated in the study. The results demonstrated that males were more satisfied with their body than females. Males generally had a lower BMI than females, except for males in China and Malaysia. Attitudes towards large bodies for males and females varied by cultural group. These results demonstrate the strong cultural similarities in body satisfaction, but the differences that occur in relation to a large body.
Some epidemiological and scanning electron microscopic features of crazing of the dental enamel of Polynesians.	The prevalence of enamel crazing was determined from the maxillary incisors and canines of 1,109 Tongan residents aged 5-20 years, 1,417 Cook Island residents aged 6-20 years, 520 French Polynesian residents aged 10-15 years, and 92 New Zealand-born and -resident Polynesians aged 11-18 years. Crazing occurred in 22 percent of Tongans, 7 percent of Cook Islanders, but not in French Polynesians or New Zealand-born Polynesians. Cracks become clinically apparent at about 8 years of age; were more common in males than females; and became more common with increasing age. The central incisors were the most commonly affected of the maxillary anterior teeth. Cross-sections of teeth with crazing viewed by light and scanning electron microscopy appeared similar to other stained cracks. The indications are that crazing is a post-eruptive change caused by trauma from local environmental factors resulting in stress fractures. The significance of crazing on enamel structure and strength is unknown, but it is probably minor without long-term disadvantages. The prevalence of crazing may prove useful in anthropology as an indicator of the use of teeth as tools and in assessing the "modernisation" of a population.
Review of the village health worker pilot scheme in Tonga.	The village health worker (VHW) pilot scheme in Tonga was reviewed three months after implementation. The scheme was acceptable to the regional health workers and the communities the VHW were serving. There were demands from most for the VHW for the community to have more than one VHW, build a clinic, and to increase the emphasis on curative medicine. There was no demand for a health prevention or promotional role. The rate of recorded illnesses has increased but health seeking behaviour remained unchanged. This scheme has provided an opening for the Ministry of Health to implement equalizing strategies to merge the practice and the political rhetoric of primary health care and community participation.
Health and nutritional status of Tongan preschool children after Cyclone Isaac.	A post-cyclone assessment of the health and nutritional status of preschool children at Ha'apai, Tonga Is, showed lower disease incidence and an unchanged pattern of illness. Height and weight measurements indicated nutrition problems to be chronic and perhaps unrelated to the effects of the disaster. This study supports the hypothesis that natural disasters do not generate new diseases or necessarily lead to disease outbreaks.
