The effect of polyvinyl pyrrolidone on the clinical activity of 0.09% and 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthrinses.	Previous studies have shown that polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) added to a chlorhexidine rinse reduced extrinsic dental stain but at the expense of a reduction in plaque inhibitory activity. This effect appeared due to a reduction in the effective chlorhexidine dose to levels where dose response studies show plaque inhibition falls off rapidly. The aim of these 2 clinical studies was to determine if PVP could be added to chlorhexidine rinses to maintain efficacy and reduce staining.
C1-esterase inhibitor in ACE inhibitor-induced severe angioedema of the tongue]	Angio-oedema are often massive but temporary swellings of the soft tissue of the face or the throat, which can also affect other regions of the human body (e.g. the skin or internal organs). An oedema of the face and throat represents a life-threatening situation. Apart from the clinical condition of the patient and detailed knowledge of the medical history (incl. medical applications), the treatment should depend on the different pathogenesis. In this reported case, we describe the severe clinical development of an angio-oedema under a long-term treatment with an ACE-inhibitor, which in the end was only successfully treated with the application of a C1 inhibitor concentrate.
Life threatening tongue angioedema associated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.	We present a case with angioedema of the tongue, following 1 dose of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ingestion. A gradual progression of angioedema required tracheotomy despite aggressive medical treatment and illustrates the severity of this adverse reaction. Although ACE inhibitors are considered safe, emergency physicians should be alert for minor angioedema at presentation that may progress to life threatening airway compromise.
Too much of a good thing, is it bad? Adrenaline on trial.	Adrenaline is vital in the treatment of severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis), however it is often underutilised or inappropriately administered. Adrenaline treatment is not without risk and most adverse reactions to adrenaline occur when it is given in overdose or as an intravenous bolus. We report a case of myocardial injury and hypotension following inappropriate administration of adrenaline.
An interesting potential reaction to warfarin.	Warfarin is an oral anticoagulant, used routinely for patients with atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and those with a mechanical prosthetic valve. There are several noted adverse reactions associated with its use, in particular the risk of haemorrhage. Other adverse reactions include: hypersensitivity, rash, alopecia, diarrhoea, unexplained drop in haematocrit, purple toes, skin necrosis, jaundice, hepatic dysfunction, nausea, vomiting and pancreatitis. In this case report, an interesting potential adverse reaction to warfarin is discussed. The reaction described affected the patient's tongue, without affecting any other aspect of the oral cavity or body.
Angioneurotic orolingual oedema following thrombolysis in acute ischaemic stroke.	Alteplase used for thrombolysis in ischaemic stroke may be complicated by orolingual acute angioedema (OAA), a rare but potentially life-threatening side effect. We report the case of a 32-year-old woman who over 24 h experienced OAA after thrombolysis for an acute ischaemic left hemispheric stroke. We discuss the pathophysiology of this rare phenomenon.
Allergic contact stomatitis to dodecyl gallate? A review of the relevance of positive patch test results to gallates.	Gallic acid esters or gallates are antioxidants used as preservatives in food and cosmetics. Few cases of gallates causing allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) have been reported in the literature. We present a case report of a 42-year-old beauty therapist who presented with a swollen tongue. Patch testing was positive to dodecyl gallate, commonly reported as being present in edible oil and oily foods such as margarine. Our patient avoided foods presumed to contain gallates and at the 6-week review reported a substantial improvement in her tongue symptoms. We reviewed our database and found 16 (7%) definitely or possibly relevant reactions to dodecyl gallate, seven (15%) definitely or possibly relevant reactions to propyl gallate and six (3%) definitely or possibly relevant reactions to octyl gallate. Most reactions were attributed to margarine, moisturising cream and lipstick. These products are often mentioned in the literature as containing gallates; however, ingredient labelling and discussions with manufacturers made it difficult to establish whether they are currently present in foods. Ascertaining relevance for these reactions is not always possible. 
Multiple oral petechiae and ecchymoses in a patient with osteoarthritis.	Ibuprofen is a frequently used medication, and possible drug reactions should be familiar to the clinician. Because oral manifestations of thrombocytopenia are often the initial finding and possibly represent the only clinical evidence of this disease, the dentist should be able to recognize the significance of these lesions and refer the patient for appropriate evaluation and therapy.
Role of the retrorubral nucleus in striatally elicited orofacial dyskinesia in cats: effects of muscimol and bicuculline.	Orofacial dyskinesia (OFD) is a disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the oral and facial muscles. OFD attacks can be elicited acutely in cats by local injections of dopaminergic agents into the anterodorsal part (r-CRM) of the caudate nucleus. Because the dopaminergic A8 cell group, being embedded in the retrorubral nucleus (RRN), gives rise to fibres which terminate in the r-CRM, two questions arose: (1) whether the A8 cell group forms part of the circuitry that directs and/or modulates OFD, and (2) whether GABA-ergic compounds in the RRN play a role in OFD, and if so, whether a pharmacological GABA-ergic intervention of the activity in the RRN modulates or mediates OFD. For this purpose, the activity of the RRN was manipulated with local injections of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol and antagonist bicuculline. These local injections into the RRN were subsequently combined with manipulations of dopamine transmission in the r-CRM with local injections of the selective DAi receptor agonist (3,4-dihydroxyphenylimino)-2-imidazoline. The present study shows that local injections of GABA-ergic compounds into the RRN do not elicit OFD attacks in cats, but can modulate oral behaviour elicited from the r-CRM. The latter effect is dose dependent and GABA-ergic specific.
