Treatment of early stage primary tonsil non-Hodgkin's lymphoma]	To investigate the treatment for patients with early stage primary tonsil non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).
Locally advanced tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma: Treatment approach revisited.	The purpose of this study was to review the treatment policy for locally advanced stage III and IV squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the tonsil at the Princess Alexandra Hospital Head and Neck Unit, Brisbane, Australia.
Survival in patients with human papillomavirus positive tonsillar cancer in relation to treatment.	The incidence of tonsillar cancer and the proportion of human papillomavirus (HPV) positive tonsillar cancer cases have increased in the last decades. In parallel, treatment for tonsillar cancer has been intensified e.g., by accelerated radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, resulting in more side effects. Patients with HPV-positive tonsillar cancer have better prognosis than those with HPV-negative tumors, and the former group could hypothetically benefit from reduced, less-toxic treatment without compromising survival. Here, we therefore evaluated possible differences in overall and disease-specific survival after different oncological treatments in 153 patients with HPV DNA- and P16-positive tonsillar cancer who were diagnosed and treated with intent to cure between 2000 and 2007, in Stockholm, Sweden. Of these patients, 86 were treated with conventional radiotherapy, 40 were treated with accelerated radiotherapy and 27 were treated with chemoradiotherapy. There were no significant differences in overall or disease-free survival between the groups. However, there was a trend, implying a beneficial effect of the intensified treatment, with chemoradiotherapy being better than radiotherapy despite that more patients had stage IV disease in the former group; and accelerated radiotherapy being better than conventional radiotherapy. This needs to be followed further in larger more homogenous groups of patients. In conclusion, patients with HPV-positive tonsillar cancer treated with conventional- or accelerated radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy disclosed similar survival rates. The trend for better survival and less metastasis after intensified treatment underlines the need for large prospective studies comparing less intense to more intense treatment (chemoradiotherapy).
Results of radiation therapy of stage I non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of Waldeyer's ring]	The treatment records of 107 patients with stage I diffuse non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the Waldeyer's ring, who were irradiated at 7 institutions from 1972 through 1985, were analyzed. The local control rate, the 5 year actuarial survival rate and the 5 year relapse-free survival rate were 96.4%, 76.2% and 76.6%, respectively. Any high risk group could not be found in the pathological subtype, the initial site of the tumor and the tumor size. There were 17 relapse cases within the first 2 years after radiotherapy. Most relapse occurred in the distant site from the irradiated field. With these results, the treatment policy of Waldeyer's ring lymphoma of stage I was discussed.
Results of radiotherapy in the treatment of 218 carcinomas of the tonsillar area]	After a brief review of the literature, the results of the treatment by radiation therapy in 218 patients with tonsillar region carcinoma are reported. The patients were treated at the Turin University Radiotherapy Department (131 cases) and at the Radiotherapy Department of the Ospedale Maggiore, Novara (87 cases) from 1976 through 1984. The series included 29 T1, 88 T2, 64 T3 and 37 T4; 86 patients (40%) were N0. Only 49 patients were stages I and II (1/4 of the total). The local control (T) rate at the end of therapy was 63.5% for the overall series (139/218) ranging from 100% in T1, 72.6% T2, 54.6% T3 to 30% T4; the regional control (N) for patients with cervical lymphadenopathy was 66% (88/132). The overall 5-year survival was 38%; the 5-year disease-free survival was 35%. The 5-year survival according to T-stage was 52% for limited cases (T1-T2) in comparison to 22% for advanced ones (T3-T4). The 5-year survival for N0 stage was 55%; when neck nodes were present (N # 0) the survival was 29% after 5 years. Complications included 6 cases of trismus and 2 osteonecroses of the mandible. Second primary malignant diseases were seen in 17 cases (7.8%). The most common cause of death was failure in primary tumour control (80% of cases). In this series the results of radiotherapy of early stage tonsillar carcinomas are quite good; patients with large tumour masses fare less satisfactorily. Better results should be obtained in the future by identifying prognostic factors, monitoring potential causes of treatment failure and optimizing the radiotherapeutic treatment plan and technique.
Carcinoma of the tonsillar region. Aspects on treatment modalities with reference to a study on patients treated by irradiation.	Irradiation is the most common form of treatment of tonsillar region carcinomas in Scandinavia. During recent years, encouraging results have been reported when surgery has been performed. Therefore, an effort was made to compare different treatment principles on the basis of a study on patients treated by irradiation. This retrospective study comprised 37 patients over a 20-year period. The relative 5-year survival was 33%. Most of the patients died in the next two years after diagnosis. Seventy-three percent of the patients initially had signs of regional metastasis. Hardly 20% of these were still alive after 5 years, while patients without evidence of metastasis had a 5-year survival of 50%. Neither the size, nor the histopathological features of the primary tumor seemed to affect the incidence of regional metastasis. The duration of symptoms before diagnosis, however, seemed to influence prognosis. Surgical consideration alone, or in combination with irradiation, should be made in cases with large primary tumor with regional lymph node involvement. In other cases, however, there was no evidence suggesting surgery as a better form of therapy than irradiation alone.
Non-Hodgkin's malignant lymphoma of the oral cavity and Waldeyer's ring--clinico-pathological Studies of biopsy cases]	Forty-five patients with stage IE and IIE malignant lymphoma originating from the oral cavity (23 cases) and Waldeyer's ring (22 cases) were histopathologically studied and their prognoses were assessed. Histologically, 42 cases were identified as diffuse lymphoma. The histiocytic (large cell) type was the prevailing type. The incidence of undifferentiated (large cell) type was relatively high and a few pleomorphic type and Burkitt type lymphomas were found in the oral cavity. The 5-year survival rate was 17% for the oral cavity and 50% for Waldeyer's ring. The survival rate of patients with stage IE malignant lymphomas of Waldeyer's ring was better than that of patients with stage IIE malignant lymphomas of Waldeyer's ring and stage IE X IIE oral malignant lymphomas.
Tonsil cancer. Patterns of failure after surgery alone and surgery combined with postoperative radiation therapy.	The authors determined the patterns of treatment failure in patients treated with surgery alone or surgery combined with postoperative radiation therapy for squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil.
Radiotherapy of the tonsillar region. Analysis of prognostic factors]	We report our personal experience with the treatment of tonsillar cancers at the Otorhinolaryngology-Radiotherapy Department of Umberto I Hospital, Mestre, Italy. The results were analyzed by tumor site and stage, lymph node involvement, treatment type and patient age.
Carcinoma of the tonsillar fossa: prognostic factors and long-term therapy outcome.	To identify prognostic parameters and evaluate the therapeutic outcomes for patients with carcinoma of the tonsillar fossa treated with three treatment modalities.
