Mandibular lateral incisor-canine transposition, concomitant dental anomalies, and genetic control.	Mandibular lateral incisor-canine (Mn.I2.C) transposition is a rare developmental disturbance of tooth order characterized by positional interchange of the two teeth. In children with Mn.I2.C anomaly, the mandibular lateral incisor shows distal ectopic eruption and the adjacent canine subsequently erupts mesial to it. A sample of 60 orthodontic patients with Mn.I2.C transposition was studied using roentgenograms taken at the time of diagnosis. Two age-related phenotypes of the anomaly were identified: early-stage (median age, 9 years) and mature-stage (median age, 12 years). Mn.I2.C transposition occurred bilaterally in 10 subjects (17%) and favored female expression (sex ratio, M1:F3) and right-side occurrence (68% of unilateral cases). Statistically significant associations were found between Mn.I2.C transposition and increased frequency of tooth agenesis (M3, p < 0.01; MnP2, p < 0.01) and peg-shaped maxillary lateral incisors (p < 0.0001). The results from this study and the analysis of 50 previously published cases provide evidence that Mn.I2.C transposition is a disturbance of tooth order and eruptive position probably caused by genetic influences. The Mn.I2.C anomaly likely results from genetic mechanisms similar to those responsible for occurrences of its associated dental anomalies, such as tooth agenesis and peg-shaped maxillary lateral incisors. In an appendix, clinical orthodontic management of Mn.I2.C transposition is discussed, based on treatment data derived from the study sample.
Tooth rotation associated with aplasia of nonadjacent teeth.	The prevalence of tooth rotation concomitant with aplasia of nonadjacent teeth in uncrowded, nonsyndromic subjects was assessed. The sample consisted of 1620 subjects (mean age 14 years 9 months). The findings were compared with the prevalence calculated for a matched control group of 1000 subjects. Rotation of maxillary lateral incisors in subjects with premolar aplasia and rotation of premolars in subjects presenting with maxillary lateral incisor aplasia were studied. Associations between both tooth position anomalies and tooth aplasia were significant (p < 0.01). In addition, the presence of rotated maxillary lateral incisors was also associated with aplasia of the homologous tooth on the opposite side of the dental arch; the same result was found for premolars. These data suggest a genetic component in the etiology of tooth malpositions, such as tooth rotation, which may be considered a covariable in a complex of genetically controlled dental disturbances, including tooth aplasia.
