Combined surgical orthodontic therapy in a patient with multiple agenesis]	After a wide analysis of the problems concerning biology and integration of autogenic transplantation of tooth germs, the Authors present a clinical case of monolateral agenesis of two premolars, with the transfer of the second premolar germ from one side to an other, suggesting some technical details in flap scalloping.
Transplantation of bovine odontogenic tissues and dissociated odontogenic cells to hypothymic mice.	It was demonstrated in this study that bovine odontogenic tissues and the dissociated cell preparations of such tissues, when transplated to the subcapsular kidney site of hypothymic mice, retained their phenotypic expression and continued function to produce their recognisable products, dentine and enamel matrices. It was also shown that in the grafts of dissociated odontogenic tissues, cell sorting occurred so that histotypical tissues were formed and that their function produced readily recognisable dentine and enamel matrices. Attention has been drawn to the usefulness of this model for studying a variety of events that occur during odontogenesis.
Experimental dentigerous cysts and enamel hypoplasia: their possible significance in explaining the pathogenesis of human dentigerous cysts.	Cysts lined by epithelium were often found in association with tooth-germ isografts in hamster cheek pouch. They developed from odontogenic epithelium and were in close relation to the crowns of involved teeth. Cysts associated with tooth-germ isografts from 5-day-old animals (17 out of 36) commenced their formation shortly after transplantation as a result of enamel organ degeneration. Teeth associated with these cysts often showed enamel hypoplasia. Accordingly, 86 teeth involved in human dentigerous cysts were examined and 43 were found to possess areas of enamel hypoplasia on their occlusal surfaces or incisal edges. It is suggested that the pathological process initiating cystic degeneration in the enamel organ was also accompanied by degeneration of ameloblasts. When tooth germs from 2-day-old hamsters were transplanted, cystic spaces developed only after completion of enamel formation, 6 weeks following transplantation (in six out of 11 transplants), as a result of separation between the cells of the reduced enamel epithelium. Enamel hypoplasia was not a conspicuous feature. These experimental and clinical observations suggest that there may be at least two types of dentigerous cyst, perhaps with different causes, arising at different stages of tooth development.
Experimental induction of cementogenesis on the enamel of transplanted mouse tooth germs.	First and second maxillary molar tooth germs with their surrounding bone were removed from 9-day-old mice, freed of the reduced enamel epithelium, re-inserted crown downwards in their bony crypts and then transplanted in the subcutaneous tissue of hosts of the same age and litter. Grafts were removed 14 days later and prepared for light and electron microscopy. In the areas where the reduced enamel epithelium was missing, a layer of cementum-like tissue was present on the enamel surface, always associated with cells showing the typical features of cementoblasts. A thin electron-lucent layer of fine fibrillar material separated the enamel surface from the new hard tissue which was composed of densely-packed collagen mixed with a ground substance. Where the cementum-like tissue was thick, cells were trapped in a collagenous matrix. The cementogenesis on enamel was strictly dependent on the absence of the reduced enamel epithelium. Thus, when exposed to follicular tissue, the surface of immature enamel appears to exert an influence on follicular cells and stimulate cementogenesis. This hypothesis could explain the presence of overgrowths of cementum in the cervical region of tooth crowns where the reduced enamel epithelium may be particularly vulnerable.
