Resistance to fracture of direct restorations with cuspal coverage in endodontically treated upper bicuspids]	Endodontically treated teeth are considered more susceptible to fracture because of the loss of tooth structure. The aim of this study was to evaluate the increase of resistance to fracture of upper bicuspids that underwent endodontic access and were restored with composite resin, with cuspal coverage. Forty extracted human maxillary premolars were divided in 4 groups: I--intact teeth; II--teeth with endodontic access and MOD preparation, restored with composite resin, without cuspal coverage; III--teeth with endodontic access, MOD preparation and occlusal reduction, restored with composite resin, with cuspal coverage; IV--teeth with endodontic access and MOD preparation, without any restoration. The test specimens were submitted to compression test up to their fracture. The test of Turkey and the ANOVA analysis were used to compare and test the results. The teeth from group III (with cuspal coverage) presented with significantly greater resistance to fracture, when compared with those from groups II (restored without cuspal coverage) and IV (not restored). The composite restoration with cuspal coverage can be considered an alternative for endodontically treated premolars.
The restoration of endodontically treated teeth: the minimally invasive (post-) core buildup?]	The rebuilding of endodontic treated teeth is a common situation in general dental practice. The final (post-) core buildup, with or without a crown, should protect the restoration as well as the tooth against fracture, should prevent debonding of the restoration, should not permit leakage and should provide an acceptable esthetic result. Several factors influencing these properties are described. The (post-) core buildup in relation to the concept of minimally invasive dentistry is discussed. In conclusion, there is no unambiguous guideline for restoring endodontically treated teeth. Standardised in vitro and in vivo studies are needed.
Evaluation of ultrasonically placed MTA and fracture resistance with intracanal composite resin in a model of apexification.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether intracoronal delivery of an apical barrier of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) placed ultrasonically, non-ultrasonically, or ultrasonically with the addition of an intracanal composite resin provided a better seal against bacterial leakage. A second purpose was to determine whether intracanal composite resin or gutta-percha and sealer placed against an apical barrier of MTA provided greater resistance to root fracture. In a standardized in vitro open apex model, MTA was placed as an apical barrier at a thickness of 4 mm, with and without ultrasonic vibration. The barriers were challenged with bacteria exposure within a leakage model, and fracture resistance was assessed with increasing forces applied via an Instron machine. After 45 days, the addition of ultrasonics significantly improved the MTA seal, compared with the non-ultrasonics treatment (Kruskal Wallis nonparametric ANOVA with Dunn multiple comparison test p < 0.05). Bacterial leakage occurred in 6 (33%) of 18 in the non-ultrasonic MTA group, 2 (11%) of 18 in the ultrasonic MTA group, and 1 (6%) of 18 in the ultrasonic MTA-composite group. There were no significant differences at 90 days. A 4-mm thickness of MTA followed with an intracanal composite resin demonstrated a significantly greater resistance to root fracture than MTA followed with gutta-percha and sealer (one-way ANOVA with Newman-Keuls multiple comparison test, p < 0.01). The MTA-gutta-percha group was not significantly different than the MTA unrestored positive control.
Comparison of fracture resistance of pulpless teeth restored with fiber reinforced composite posts and three kinds of resin core material]	To compare the fracture resistances of pulpless teeth restored with FRC (Fiber Reinforced Composite) posts and three kinds of resin core material.
Effect of bonding amalgam on the reinforcement of teeth.	Extensively weakened maxillary premolars may be more prone to fracture due to their small size. The weakening may be due to excessive demineralization of supporting tooth structure caused by dental caries or nonconservative or traumatic tooth preparation.
The effect of fibre insertion on fracture resistance of root filled molar teeth with MOD preparations restored with composite.	To evaluate the effect of using flowable composite with or without leno woven ultra high modulus polyethylene fibre reinforcement on fracture resistance of root filled mandibular molars with mesio-occlusodistal (MOD) preparations.
Fracture resistance of roots with thin walls restored using an intermediate resin composite layer placed between the dentine and a cast metal post.	Thin-walled roots restored using conventional cast metal post-cores are at risk of fracture. Placing a thick intermediate layer of resin-based composite (RBC), sandwiched between the root dentine and a small-diameter metal post or dowel, may improve the fracture resistance of such roots. In this initial laboratory study, two similar groups each of six decoronated maxillary central incisor teeth were prepared with approximately 1.0 mm thick tapered root canal walls. Cast metal alloy post-cores and metal-ceramic crowns were fabricated and cemented for one group with, and for the other control group without, a thick intermediate layer of RBC. The mean force (N) to fracture the roots was 639.3 (SD 51.6) for the intermediate layer of RBC group and 360.8 (42.9) for the control group, P < 0.0001. These significantly different findings require clinical confirmation.
Mineral trioxide aggregate in endodontic treatment for immature teeth.	The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that the fracture strength of calcium hydroxide and mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) filled immature teeth decrease over time. Immature mandibular incisors from sheep were extracted and the pulps were extirpated using an apical approach with a barbed broach, and the teeth were divided into three experimental groups. Group 1: Untreated teeth. Group 2: The root canal was filled with calcium hydroxide paste (Ultradent-UltraCal XS). Group 3: The root canal was filled with ProRoot MTA system (Dentsply, USA). All specimens were kept in saline with 1% antibiotics at 4 degres C for certain periods of time: two weeks, two months and one year. All teeth were tested for fracture strength in an Instron testing machine at the indicated observation periods. The results were subjected to statistical analysis by a one-way analysis of variance and with the t-test at a 5% level of significance. One tooth from each group was selected randomly for the histological study. The mean fracture strengths decreased over time for all the three groups. The fracture strengths were not found significantly different from the untreated, calcium hydroxide-treated or MTA-treated teeth at two-week or two-month (p>0.05). However, the results for MTA-treated teeth were significantly higher than the other two groups at one year (p=0.0137). The teeth with root treatment with MTA showed the highest fracture resistance at one year (p<0.05), since only MTA induced the expression of TIMP-2 in the dentin matrix and possibly prevents rapid destruction of collagen.
Fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth with different heights of crown ferrule restored with prefabricated carbon fiber post and composite resin core by intermittent loading.	This study evaluated the fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth restored with prefabricated carbon fiber posts and varying quantities of coronal dentin. Sixty freshly extracted upper canines were randomly divided into groups of 10 teeth each. The specimens were exposed to 250,000 cycles in a controlled chewing simulator. All intact specimens were subjected to a static load (N) in a universal testing machine at 45 degrees to the long axis. Data were analyzed by 1-way analysis of variance and Tukey test (alpha = .05). Significant differences (P < .001) were found among the mean fracture forces of the test groups (positive control, 0 mm,1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, and negative control groups: 1022.82 N, 1008.22 N, 1292.52 N, 1289.19 N, 1255.38 N, and 1582.11, respectively). These results suggested that the amount of coronal dentin did not significantly increase the fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth restored with prefabricated carbon fiber post and composite resin core.
Influence of the type of post and core on in vitro marginal continuity, fracture resistance, and fracture mode of lithia disilicate-based all-ceramic crowns.	The influence of different crown foundations on marginal seal and fracture resistance of ceramic crowns placed on endodontically treated teeth has not been clearly established.
Restoring strength of incisors with veneers and full ceramic crowns.	The aim was to determine the in vitro fracture resistance of incisors restored with veneers and full ceramic crowns compared to unrestored teeth.
Fracture resistance and failure patterns of open apex root teeth with different posts after endodontic treatment.	The aim of this study is to investigate the influence of different posts on the fracture mechanics of endodontically-treated teeth with open apex. Forty-eight human maxillary anterior teeth were collected, and the root was transversely sectioned 12 mm under the cementoenamal junction (CEJ). These samples were then randomly divided into two groups, i.e., minor diameter open apex root (group A) and major diameter open apex root (group B), with mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) placed into the apical 4 mm in the root canals. Subsequently, both groups were respectively further divided into three subgroups as follows: fiber-post (subgroup 1), metal post (subgroup 2) and non-post (subgroup 3) group. Teeth were restored with a composite resin crown and tested by using a universal testing machine at the rate of 1 mm/min cross-head. Values of the maximum fracture resistance and failure patterns were recorded and compared among all subgroups. In addition, the changes of MTA properties were carefully examined via X-ray photography. Our results indicate that (1) In group A, the mean value of fracture resistance for teeth restored with fiber posts were statistically higher than that with either metal post or non-post; (2) In group B, there was no statistically significant difference in the mean value of fracture resistance among three subgroups; (3) No statistical significance in the mean value of fracture resistance was found between group A and group B; (4) The failure modes of most samples (58%) were irreparable; (5) MTA in two teeth developed cracks after loading tests. In conclusion, endodontically-treated teeth restored with fiber posts are more resistant to fracture than those restored with either metal posts or non-post, and most of the fracture modes are catastrophic in nature.
Fracture resistance of endodontically treated premolars with fibre-reinforced composite restorations.	This study investigated the fracture resistance and failure mode of endodontically treated premolars restored with a glass fibre-reinforced composite resin. Endodontically treated maxillary premolars were divided in 4 groups: group O: occlusal access opening restored with direct composite; group O+: as group O but with fibre reinforcement; group MOD: occlusal access opening and mesio-distal (MOD) cavity restored with direct composite; group MOD+: as group MOD but with additional fibre reinforcement. Pairwise comparisons of the fracture force among all groups was performed (95% confidence level). Fractures were classified in 4 groups depending on the type of fracture. Group O was the strongest (452.7N) and group MOD the weakest (292.4N). Fracture resistance was significantly different among all groups, except between groups O+ and MOD+. The majority of the unreinforced teeth displayed unfavourable fractures, while the reinforced teeth displayed more favourable fractures. The incorporation of glass fibre weakened endodontically treated but otherwise intact premolars; premolars with MOD restorations were stronger if reinforced with fibres. Fibre reinforcement led to more favourable fractures.
Dental damage during anaesthesia and surgery.	A review of the Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC) files on dental damage following anaesthesia or surgery was undertaken along with a survey of New Zealand anaesthetists asking about their practice with respect to protection of teeth during anaesthesia. These results confirm that damage is relatively common and that the majority of damaged teeth (62%) were known to have been previously restored, or weakened through periodontal disease prior to the damage occurring. The anaesthetists surveyed thought that dental damage was even more common than shown from the ACC records, and yet the vast majority of them did not routinely use specific protective guards and 45% of them did not ever use protective guards of any type.
Resistance to fracture of endodontically treated premolars restored with new generation dentine bonding systems.	MOD cavities in 60 endodontically treated teeth were restored using six different methods. Copper rings were filled with commercial hard-setting cement and the teeth were placed up to the level of the cemento-enamel junction. The teeth were grouped according to restorative method, mounted in an Instron TT machine, and the buccal walls subjected to a slowly increasing compressive force until fracture occurred. The force of fracture of the walls of each tooth was recorded and the results in the various groups compared. All teeth fractured in a similar manner irrespective of the restorative method used. All groups restored with the newer bonding system had higher resistance to fracture than those restored with an acid etch chemically cured composite resin technique. The groups restored with Den-Mat Tenure Core Paste or a Variglass VLC base and Prisma APH were significantly stronger than the acid etch Concise restored teeth (P < 0.05). No statistically significant differences were found between the other groups (P > 0.05).
A review of dental injuries and the use of mouthguards in contact team sports.	Dental injuries are the commonest type of orofacial injury sustained during participation in sports. Of the types which are currently available, custom-made mouthguards fitted by a dentist have been demonstrated to provide the greatest protection from dental injuries. Such mouthguards should therefore be recommended for use by those who participate in contact sports, and their provision should be actively encouraged by dental care workers.
Photoelastic comparison of stress induced by using stainless-steel versus nickel-titanium spreaders in vitro.	The vertical force applied to an endodontic spreader generates stress along the canal walls. Recognizing the potential for this stress may reduce the incidence of vertical root fractures. A photoelastic acrylic model was fabricated to exhibit the stress produced during obturation of curved canals using the lateral condensation technique. Twenty standardized models simulating curved canals (32 degrees) were formed within PL-2 photoelastic acrylic resin blocks. The canals were fitted with a gutta-percha point, and either a stainless-steel or nickel-titanium finger spreader was inserted. An Instron 4502 universal testing machine applied a vertical force of 20 Newtons to the spreader. Quarter wave and polarizing filters were used with backlighting to generate the fringe patterns in the models. Photographs of the resulting stress lines showed that the stainless-steel spreaders created three areas of concentrated stress. The nickel-titanium spreaders induced stress patterns spread out along the surface of the canals, thus reducing the concentration of stress and the potential for vertical root fracture.
