Emerging methods used in the prevention and repair of carious tissues.	A systematic review was undertaken to investigate four emerging methodologies that might be used in the prevention of caries and/or repair of carious tissues. These included a partitioned dentifrice, laser technology, fluoride-releasing dental materials, and for deep carious lesions, bone morphogenic protein (BMP) therapy. The search strategy was to review articles written in English, indexed in MEDLINE and EMBASE databases and published since 1976. Over two hundred articles were read but because of the inclusion and exclusion criteria, only thirty-three were included in the evidence tables. The review of partitioned toothpaste showed either a greater remineralizing effect or a greater increase in the resistance to demineralization of both enamel and dentin, with the exception of its lack of effectiveness on coronal caries in the only clinical trial. Five of the six in vitro studies on enamel and the one study on dentin reported that lased tissue was less soluble than nonlased. Six clinical and four in situ studies were reviewed in answering the question as to whether fluoride-releasing restorative materials increase the remineralization or resistance to demineralization of human enamel and dentin. Eight of these reported positive findings. Six animal studies investigating BMP were reviewed, and all showed the ability of BMP to induce tubular dentin formation. Although the laboratory, animal, and limited clinical trials report encouraging results, independent, randomized, controlled clinical trials need to be carried out before these emerging technologies can be recommended for use in general practice.
Clinical decision-making for caries management in root surfaces.	This report presents the results of an evidence-based approach to obtaining the best available information on the natural history, prevalence, incidence, diagnosis, and treatment of root caries. Searches of electronic databases produced 807 references; from these and from citations in the selected articles, a final 161 references were used. We found that the information on the natural history of the disease does not provide practitioners with probabilities of, or time estimates for, progression of the disease through stages. For patients aged thirty and older, the prevalence of root caries is roughly 20 to 22 percent less than a person's age. Severity reaches over one lesion by age fifty, two lesions by age seventy, and just over three lesions for those seventy-five and older. About 8 percent (odds of 1:11) of the population would be expected to acquire one or more new root caries lesions in one year. The accuracy of current systems of diagnosis is unknown, although color has been shown to have little validity. Using the criteria of "softness" to define active lesions has been validated by the presence of microbes in the lesion. One strong study and other studies with weaker design or shorter duration add consistent support for the use of fluorides in the remineralization of root caries. Every three-month application of chlorhexidine varnish was shown to be efficacious in one arm of one study. Evidence for restoration of root caries is tentative since the studies were of limited design and duration.
Influence of fluoride and pH on in vitro remineralization of bovine enamel.	Subsurface lesions in bovine enamel slices were remineralized. The remineralization solutions contained either 0.03, 0.3, or 1.0 ppm fluoride at either pH 5.5 or 6.8. The amount of remineralization was determined after periods of up to 610 h, using quantitative microradiography. The results showed that after 126 h of remineralization in the presence of 0.03 ppm fluoride significantly (p less than 0.05) more remineralization occurred at pH 6.8 than at pH 5.5. At 0.3 and 1.0 ppm fluoride no significant differences between pH 5.5 and pH 6.8 were observed. An interaction between fluoride and pH was observed. The observed differences in the rates of remineralization are explained by the formation and subsequent transformation of the precursors octacalcium phosphate (pH 6.8) and brushite (pH 5.5) into (fluor)apatites.
Dental erosion: possible approaches to prevention and control.	To discuss the key elements for establishment of a preventive programme for dental erosion.
Development of an in situ root caries model. A. In vitro investigations.	The paper describes preliminary in vitro investigations, the objectives of which were to examine the influence of certain experimental parameters on artificial carious lesion formation in root hard tissues, and their remineralisation. These experiments formed part of a wider study that aimed to develop an in situ model of root caries, based on the existing coronal caries model used in Liverpool. The present studies examined the effects (a) of the anatomical origin of the dentine, the presence or absence of cementum, the exposure time and the type of demineralising system, on lesion development, and (b) of baseline lesion size on the extent and location of mineral re-precipitation.
Development of an in situ root caries model B. In situ investigations.	The aims of this pilot study were to assess the suitability of an in situ model for root caries studies, and to investigate the effect of sub-surface lesion mineral content and ultrastructural organisation on remineralisation.
An in situ model for simultaneous assessment of inhibition of demineralization and enhancement of remineralization.	In situ models to assess the ability of oral care products or food components to enhance remineralization and/or inhibit demineralization of tooth enamel or roots must be very carefully designed to minimize the confounding effects of the many variables involved. Controlling these variables as closely as possible is essential if meaningful answers are to be obtained from the models. We have developed an in situ model which combines the experience of several groups. Detailed screening of subjects is essential. Selection criteria should include good general health, good dental health, mandibular partial denture, at least eight natural teeth, no active caries lesions, known fluoride history, normal salivary function, and no medications that affect salivary function. Each subject carries a sound enamel slab and an enamel slab with a pre-formed caries-like lesion (demineralized in vitro) in his/her denture on each side of the mouth for test periods of two or four weeks. The demineralization challenge is controlled by extra-oral immersion of the appliances in sucrose daily. Daily product exposure or daily food component exposure is used as desired. Compliance indicators and a diet diary are included. Whole saliva flow rate (unstimulated), plaque acidogenicity, and salivary fluoride are monitored during the test periods. At the end of the test period, the test slabs are assessed for mineral change, after being sectioned, by means of cross-sectional microhardness or microradiography. The mineral loss or gain (delta M, microns x vol%), compared with adjacent control sections retained in the lab, is calculated as change in delta Z (microns x vol%), namely, delta M = delta ZTEST - delta ZCONTROL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Importance of model parameters in the assessment of intra-oral remineralization.	Since the introduction of the Intra-oral Cariogenicity Test by Koulourides et al. (1974), many groups around the world have been developing and using intra-oral models to test new caries-preventive products, as well as to study physiological processes in the oral cavity. In spite of the large numbers of papers reporting these methods, very little research has been done to determine the importance of the many variable parameters which influence the performance of these models. Among these, the following can be identified: (a) panelist criteria, (b) the use of sound vs. pre-demineralized enamel of human or bovine origin, (c) the use of gauze or a recess to accumulate plaque, (d) the method to create incipient lesions, (e) the duration of the experiment, (f) the number of panelists required for statistical significance to be obtained, (g) the assessment techniques for mineral and/or fluoride uptake/loss, and (h) the choice of contralateral, 'cross-over', or 'monadic' experimental designs. Our results, supported by data from the literature, indicate that the choices made with respect to these parameters are of paramount importance in determination of the outcome of the respective study.
Intra-oral models for studying de- and remineralization in man: methodology and measurement.	A wide range of different methodologies and measurement techniques has been employed in laboratories around the world for the study of de- and remineralization of enamel and dentin in intra-oral systems. These different approaches are summarized and discussed in relation to the nature of the different research questions to be studied by means of the intra-oral model.
Hygienic and mineralizing effects of toothpastes of domestic and foreign production]	Hygienic and mineralizing effects of domestic and foreign toothpastes were studied in different age groups (12-17-year-olds, females aged 40-45 years). It was established that Novyi Zhemchug Ftor toothpaste has a favorable effect on the external layer of the enamel and hygienic condition of the oral cavity.
Effects of a glass-ionomer cement on the remineralization of occlusal caries--an in situ study.	This work evaluated the remineralization of demineralized enamel of pits and fissures of human third molars sealed with a glass ionomer cement (Fuji IX, GC Corporation--Japan) or with a Bis-GMA sealant (Delton--Dentsply). Ten volunteers participated in this in situ study that consisted of two thirty-day periods using intra-oral devices, with a weeks interval in between. Four experimental treatment procedures and one control were randomly assigned to the volunteers specimens: Group I, no treatment, control; Group II, artificial caries process; Group III, same treatment as Group II, but sealed with Delton (Dentsply); Group IV, same treatment as Group II, but sealed with Fuji IX (GC Corporation--Japan); Group V, same treatment as Group II and no sealing. Groups I and II were not submitted to the oral environment and served as controls. After a period of 30 days in the oral environment, the specimens were removed from the devices, embedded in acrylic resin, ground flat and polished. Then, Knoop hardness tests were performed, with a 25 g static load applied for 15 seconds. The measurements were made from the base of the fissure up to an opening of 600 microm, pre-established between the inclines of the cusps. Three indentations were then made, located at 25, 75, and 125 microm in depth from the outer enamel margin and 100 microm apart from each other (Micromet 2003). The Brieger F and Bonferronis tests were applied to the measurements. It was concluded that sealing with the glass ionomer cement Fuji IX was capable of making the enamel of pits and fissures more resistant by increasing the value of Knoop hardness.
Effect of compounds of Galla chinensis on remineralisation of initial enamel carious lesions in vitro.	To evaluate the effect of compounds of Galla chinensis on the remineralisation of initial enamel carious lesions in vitro.
Effects of calcium phosphate nanoparticles on Ca-PO4 composite.	Nano-particles of dicalcium phosphate anhydrous (DCPA) were synthesized for the first time. The objectives of this study were to incorporate DCPA nano-particles into resin for Ca-PO(4) release to combat dental caries, and to investigate the filler level effects. Nano-DCPA and nano-silica-fused silicon nitride whiskers at a 1:1 ratio were used at filler mass fractions of 0-75%. The flexural strengths in MPa (mean +/- SD; n = 6) of DCPA-whisker composites ranged from (106 +/- 39) at 0% fillers to (114 +/- 23) at 75% fillers, similar to (112 +/- 22) of a non-releasing composite (TPH) (p > 0.1). The composite with 75% fillers in a NaCl solution (133 mmol/L, pH = 7.4, 37 degrees C) yielded a Ca concentration of (0.65 +/- 0.02) mmol/L and PO(4) of (2.29 +/- 0.07) mmol/L. Relationships were established between ion-release and DCPA volume fraction V(DCPA): Ca = 4.46 V(DCPA)(1.6,) and = 66.9 V(DCPA)(2.6). Nano-DCPA-whisker PO(4) composites had high strength and released high levels of Ca-PO(4) requisite for remineralization. These new nano-composites could provide the needed combination of stress-bearing and caries-inhibiting capabilities.
Effect of a xylitol and fluoride containing toothpaste on the remineralization of human enamel in vitro.	The aim of this study was to examine the effect of a fluoride and xylitol containing toothpaste on the remineralization of human enamel using Quantitative Light-induced Fluorescence (QLF). Human extracted teeth were cut longitudinally into three or four parts, and artificial subsurface lesion windows (2 mm x 3 mm) were created by immersion in demineralizing solution. Each enamel sample (n = 7) was treated for 3 min at 25 degrees C twice a day for consecutive 14 days with the slurry of a silica-based toothpaste 1) without F- and xylitol (blank), 2) with 500 ppm F- and 3) with 500 ppm F- and 5% xylitol toothpaste. In addition, we measured the remineralization ability of a commercially available toothpaste 4) with 500 ppm F-. The average fluorescence loss F (%) and lesion size (mm2) were determined with QLF. Another variable, delta Q, which was defined as the fluorescence loss integrated over the lesion size (%, mm2), was calculated. The results showed that the combination of 500 ppm F- and 5% xylitol toothpaste significantly (P < 0.05) recovered both the size and delta Q compared to the other groups. These findings suggested that inclusion of xylitol in fluoride toothpaste might be useful to enhance the remineralization in vivo.
Role of remineralizing fluid in in vitro enamel caries formation and progression.	To evaluate a remineralizing fluid for its influence on in vitro caries formation and progression.
Effects of a new titanium fluoride derivative on enamel de- and remineralization.	The potential of a new titanium fluoride (TiF) derivative for caries prevention was tested in a pH-cycling model. Daily treatments with various concentrations (100, 250, and 500 p.p.m.) of TiF were compared with similar sodium fluoride (NaF) treatments given at the same pH. Bovine enamel lesions were subjected to 3 wk of pH cycling. The effects were assessed by analyzing calcium uptake and loss in the re- and demineralizing solutions, respectively, and by post pH cycling microradiographic analysis of the lesions. Treatments with NaF reduced calcium loss, enhanced calcium uptake, and induced overall lesion remineralization. Treatments with TiF derivative gradually caused almost complete inhibition of calcium loss and uptake (lesion 'arrestment'), irrespective of the concentration of the TiF derivative. To test the permanence of protection, sound enamel was pretreated with either TiF derivative or NaF, and demineralized for 14 d at pH 4.4 and 4.6. Calcium loss data show that up to 80% inhibition of demineralization could be achieved for the TiF derivative, which was not possible for NaF treatments. This inhibition was obtained through a combination of concentration and number of treatments. The TiF derivative is a promising agent for the prevention of dental caries, especially when aimed at preventing the onset of caries.
Self-assembling peptide scaffolds promote enamel remineralization.	Rationally designed beta-sheet-forming peptides that spontaneously form three-dimensional fibrillar scaffolds in response to specific environmental triggers may potentially be used in skeletal tissue engineering, including the treatment/prevention of dental caries, via bioactive surface groups. We hypothesized that infiltration of caries lesions with monomeric low-viscosity peptide solutions would be followed by in situ polymerization triggered by conditions of pH and ionic strength, providing a biomimetic scaffold capable of hydroxyapatite nucleation, promoting repair. Our aim was to determine the effect of an anionic peptide applied to caries-like lesions in human dental enamel under simulated intra-oral conditions of pH cycling. Peptide treatment significantly increased net mineral gain by the lesions, due to both increased remineralization and inhibition of demineralization over a five-day period. The assembled peptide was also capable of inducing hydroxyapatite nucleation de novo. The results suggest that self-assembling peptides may be useful in the modulation of mineral behavior during in situ dental tissue engineering.
Effects of calcium phosphate precipitation method on acid resistance to apatite powder and bovine tooth.	The aims of this study were to evaluate the effects of CPP method on the crystallinity of apatite powder and on the acid resistance of bovine enamel. Crystallinity degrees of apatite powder before and after CPP treatment were measured by powder X-ray diffraction analysis. Polished bovine enamel specimens treated with CPP method or NaF were immersed in a lactic acid solution for up to five days. The demineralized depth of enamel was measured with a surface roughness analyzer. XRD peaks became sharper after the CPP treatment, indicating an increased crystallinity of the apatite powder. The demineralized depth of bovine enamel treated with CPP method was shallower than that of enamel treated with NaF. Results of this study revealed that the CPP method increased the crystallinity of apatite powder and the acid resistance of enamel. Therefore, the CPP method would be useful not only for treating dentin hypersensitivity, but also for the prevention of dental caries.
Saliva substitute in combination with high-concentrated fluoride toothpaste: effects on demineralised dentin in vitro.	The aim of this in vitro study was to assess the effects of saliva substitutes (modified with respect to calcium, phosphates, and fluorides) in combination with a high-concentrated fluoride toothpaste on demineralised dentin.
Tin and fluoride as anti-erosive agents in enamel and dentine in vitro.	To investigate the efficacy of an experimental tin- and fluoride-containing mouth rinse on progression of erosion in enamel and dentine in vitro.
Failure of a glass ionomer to remineralize apatite-depleted dentin.	Remineralization of demineralized dentin lesions adjacent to glass-ionomer cements (GICs) has been reported in the literature. This study tested the hypothesis that a strontium-based GIC can remineralize completely demineralized dentin by nucleation of new apatite crystallites within an apatite-free dentin matrix. Human dentin specimens were acid-etched, bonded with Fuji IX(GP), and immersed in a calcium-and-phosphate-containing 1.5X simulated body fluid (SBF) for 1-4 months. Polyacrylic acid and polyvinylphosphonic acid biomimetic analogs were added to the SBFs to create 2 additional remineralization media. Specimens were processed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). No apatite deposition could be identified in the completely demineralized dentin in any of the specimens immersed in the 3 remineralization media, despite TEM/EDX evidence of diffusion of ions specific to the strontium-based GIC into the demineralized dentin. The hypothesis was rejected; mineral concentration alone is not a sufficient endpoint for assessing the success of contemporary remineralization strategies.
In vivo dentin remineralization by calcium-phosphate cement.	Minimally invasive caries-removal procedures remove only caries-infected dentin and preserve caries-affected dentin that becomes remineralized. Dental cements containing calcium phosphate promote remineralization. This study evaluated the in vivo remineralization capacity of resin-based calcium-phosphate cement (Ca-P) used for indirect pulp-capping. Carious and sound teeth indicated for extraction were randomly restored with the Ca-P base or without base (control), followed by adhesive restoration. Study teeth were extracted after three months, followed by elemental analysis of the cavity floor. Mineral content of affected or sound dentin at the cavity floor was quantified by electron probe micro-analysis to 100-mum depth. After three months, caries-affected dentin underneath the Ca-P base showed significantly increased calcium and phosphorus content to a depth of 30 mum. Mineral content of treated caries-affected dentin was in the range of healthy dentin, revealing the capacity of Ca-P base to promote remineralization of caries-affected dentin.
Effect of hesperidin in vitro on root dentine collagen and demineralization.	Caries progress might be controlled when collagen matrix could be preserved after demineralization. The aim of this pH cycling study was to investigate the effect of hesperidin, a citrus flavonoid antioxidant, on dentine collagen and remineralization in dentine lesion, and compared with that of chlorhexidine.
Design of a randomized controlled double-blind crossover clinical trial to assess the effects of saliva substitutes on bovine enamel and dentin in situ.	Hyposalivation is caused by various syndromes, diabetes, drugs, inflammation, infection, or radiotherapy of the salivary glands. Patients with hyposalivation often show an increased caries incidence. Moreover, hyposalivation is frequently accompanied by oral discomfort and impaired oral functions, and saliva substitutes are widely used to alleviate oral symptoms. However, preference of saliva substitutes due to taste, handling, and relief of oral symptoms has been discussed controversially. Some of the marketed products have shown demineralizing effects on dental hard tissues in vitro. This demineralizing potential is attributed to the undersaturation with respect to calcium phosphates. Therefore, it is important to modify the mineralizing potential of saliva substitutes to prevent carious lesions. Thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of a possible remineralizing saliva substitute (SN; modified Saliva natura) compared to a demineralizing one (G; Glandosane) on mineral parameters of sound bovine dentin and enamel as well as on artificially demineralized enamel specimens in situ. Moreover, oral well-being after use of each saliva substitute was recorded.
Remineralization of bovine enamel subsurface lesions: effects of different calcium-phosphate saturations in buffered aqueous solutions.	To evaluate the remineralizing effects of aqueous phosphate-buffered solutions using various saturations with respect to octacalcium phosphate or brushite (OCP/DCPD) on bovine enamel subsurface lesions.
Efficacy of CPP-ACP and CPP-ACPF on enamel remineralization - an in vitro study using scanning electron microscope and DIAGNOdent.	Remineralization as a treatment procedure has received a lot of attention both from clinicians as well researchers. The objective of this in vitro study was to find out the efficacy of casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACP) and casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride (CPP-ACPF) in remineralizing enamel surface on which artificial caries lesion had been created. The changes were analyzed using DIAGNOdent (KaVo) and scanning electron microscope (SEM).
Remineralization effects of casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate crème on artificial early enamel lesions of primary teeth.	Caries in children younger than 72 months is called early childhood caries (ECC). Sixty-six per cent of Chinese children younger than 5 years old have dental decay, and about 97% of them are untreated.
A preliminary study of enamel remineralization by dentifrices based on Recalden (CPP-ACP) and Novamin (calcium-sodium-phosphosilicate).	The purpose of this study was to investigate the enamel remineralization potential of two toothpastes, one of which was based on Recaldent (CPP- ACP) and the other on NovaMin (Calcium-sodium-phosphosilicate). Human permanent molar teeth were subjected to three consecutive demineralization cycles. These cycles were followed by remineralization of the experimental groups by toothpastes containing Recalden and NovaMin respectively. The samples were analyzed by Scanning Electron Microscope, (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy analysis (EDX). Extensive demineralization was noted in the control group (without remineralization) while the groups treated with the dentifices demonstrated various degrees of remineralization, as shown by formation of different types of deposits on the enamel surface. The EDX analysis showed increased amounts of Ca, P Si and Zn in the enamel of the experimental groups, compared to the control one. Toothpastes containing Recalden and especially NovaMin have the potential to remineralize enamel, a property which might be important in finding a substitute to pit and fissure sealing.
Caries prevention for patients with dry mouth.	Patients with xerostomia, or dry mouth, resulting from various causes, are at higher risk for developing caries because of a loss of saliva and its benefits. A loss of saliva increases the acidity of the mouth, which affects many factors that contribute to the development of caries, such as proliferation of acid-producing bacteria, inability to buffer the acid produced by bacteria or from ingested foods, loss of minerals from tooth surfaces and inability to replenish the lost minerals, and loss of lubrication. Currently, a number of new products that can substitute for these functions of saliva or induce production of saliva are available in Canada. Some of these products are reviewed and a protocol for caries prevention in this high-risk population is proposed.
Biofunctional properties of caseinophosphopeptides in the oral cavity.	Caseinophosphopeptides (CPPs), bioactive peptides released from caseins, have the ability to enhance bivalent mineral solubility. This is relevant to numerous biological functions in the oral cavity (promotion of tooth enamel remineralisation, prevention of demineralisation and buffering of plaque pH). Therefore, CPPs may play a positive role as prophylactic agents for caries, enamel erosion and regression of white spot lesions. Most in vitro and in situ studies demonstrate strong evidence for the bioactivity of CPPs in the oral cavity. Nevertheless, relatively little is known concerning their use as adjuvants for oral health and more particularly regarding their long-term effects on oral health.
Comparative evaluation of the remineralising effects and surface microhardness of glass ionomer cement containing grape seed extract and casein phosphopeptide - amorphous calcium phosphate: an in vitro study.	To evaluate and compare in vitro the remineralising effects and surface microhardness of glass ionomer cement (GIC), GIC containing grape seed extract and GIC containing casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACP).
In vitro effect of hesperidin on root dentin collagen and de/re-mineralization.	The aims of this study were to investigate the effects of hesperidin, a citrus flavonoid, on human root dentin demineralization and collagen preservation, and compare it with chlorhexidine and grape seed extract. Specimens were assigned to different treatment groups: hesperidin, chlorhexidine and grape seed extract. Specimens were subjected to pH cycling by demineralization for 14 h, incubation in testing solutions for 2 h and remineralization in presence of bacterial-derived collagenase for 8 h, for 8 days. Calcium release was measured by means of an atomic absorption spectrophotometer, and degraded collagen matrix was investigated by hydroxyproline assay. Specimens were assessed longitudinally with transverse micro-radiography to investigate lesion depth and mineral loss. In hesperidin and grape seed extract groups, demineralization was reduced when the collagen matrix was preserved. The hesperidin group showed the lowest value in lesion depth and mineral loss, indicating that hesperidin inhibited demineralization and probably enhanced remineralization even under fluoride-free conditions.
Casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate: a remineralizing agent of enamel.	The pathogenesis of enamel caries involves a succession of demineralization and remineralization activities. The net effect can result in lesion consolidation when the redeposited minerals improve the resistance of the surface to the extent that the usual level of cariogenic activity cannot cause mineral dissolution. Since it has been established that the caries process is a continuum, albeit one that is interrupted numerous times daily, it is therefore possible to intervene at any stage with a therapeutic product or an intervention methodology. Incorporation of remineralizing treatments into routine dental care programmes will have a strong impact on the public health aspects of caries control. A recent advancement in the phenomenon of remineralization is the casein phosphopeptides. These casein phosphopeptides localize the amorphous calcium phosphate and are proved to be anticariogenic. This review discusses the mechanism of remineralization by casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate and its incorporation into various products.
Fluorides - mode of action and recommendations for use.	Various authors have shown that the caries decline in the industrialized countries during recent decades is based on the use of fluorides, of which local fluoride application in the form of fluoridated toothpastes is of primary importance. The caries-protective potential of fluorapatite is quite low; in contrast, dissolved fluorides in the vicinity of enamel are effective both in promoting remineralization and inhibiting demineralization. Considering the fact that the caries decline occurred at the same time that local fluoridation measures became widely used, the conclusion seems justified that regular application of F⁻ can inhibit caries.
Casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate and glass ionomer show distinct effects in the remineralization of proximal artificial caries lesion in situ.	This study aimed to compare the ability of casein-phosphopeptide amorphous-calcium-phosphate (CPP-ACP) and glass-ionomer (GI) in remineralizing proximal artificial caries lesions (ACLs). Molar enamel-slabs were divided into: original-lesion control, intra-oral controls, and experimental (CPP-ACP or GI) groups. Specimens received ACLs and were bonded on subject maxillary first molars. After 4-weeks, mineral density (MD) was analyzed by μCT. Compared to control, CPP-ACP increased MD at 0-38/68-84 microns and the GI group had an increase at 0-68 microns, with a greater increase in MD compared to the CPP-ACP group from 0-53 microns. The mean percent remineralization (%R) showed differences between the GI, CPP-ACP groups and their paired controls. GI tended to increase remineralization more than CPP-ACP. In conclusion, CPP-ACP and GI demonstrated distinct remineralizing ability. GI induced greater remineralization in the superficial lesion, while CPP-ACP remineralized the lesion body. Their effects on percent remineralization and reducing lesion depth of proximal ACLs were similar. 
Reconsidering remineralization strategies to include nanoparticle hydroxyapatite.	Dental caries is a transmissible biofilm-mediated disease of the teeth that is defined by prolonged periods of low pH resulting in net mineral loss from the teeth. Hydroxyapatite, fluorapatite, and the carbonated forms of calcium phosphate form the main mineral content of dental hard tissues: enamel, dentin, and cementum. Active dental caries results when the biofilm pH on the tooth surface drops below the dissolution threshold for hydroxyapatite and fluorapatite. The clinical evidence of this net mineral loss is porosity, whitespot lesions, caries lesions, and/or cavitation. The potential to reverse this mineral loss through remineralization has been well documented, although previous remineralization strategies for dental hard tissues have focused on the use of fluorides and forms of calcium phosphate. This in-vitro study documented the deposition of nanoparticle hydroxyapatite on demineralized enamel surfaces after treatment with an experimental remineralization gel. This finding supports consideration of an additional approach to remineralization that includes pH neutralization strategies and nanoparticle hydroxyapatite crystals. 
A clinical investigation of the efficacy of a dentifrice containing 1.5% arginine and 1450 ppm fluoride, as sodium monofluorophosphate in a calcium base, on primary root caries.	The purpose of this six-month study was to assess the ability of a new dentifrice containing 1.5% arginine, an insoluble calcium compound, and 1450 ppm fluoride, as sodium monofluorophosphate, to arrest and reverse primary root caries lesions in adults.
In situ clinical effects of new dentifrices containing 1.5% arginine and fluoride on enamel de- and remineralization and plaque metabolism.	The primary objective of the three studies reported in this paper was to evaluate the effects of new dentifrices containing 1.5% arginine, an insoluble calcium compound, and fluoride for their ability to promote remineralization of demineralized enamel, and to prevent mineral loss from sound enamel specimens. A secondary objective was to determine the effects on plaque metabolism with respect to the conversion of arginine to ammonia and sucrose to lactic acid.
Erosion protection by calcium lactate/sodium fluoride rinses under different salivary flows in vitro.	This study investigated the effect of a calcium lactate prerinse on sodium fluoride protection in an in vitro erosion-remineralization model simulating two different salivary flow rates. Enamel and dentin specimens were randomly assigned to 6 groups (n = 8), according to the combination between rinse treatments - deionized water (DIW), 12 mM NaF (NaF) or 150 mM calcium lactate followed by NaF (CaL + NaF) - and unstimulated salivary flow rates - 0.5 or 0.05 ml/min - simulating normal and low salivary flow rates, respectively. The specimens were placed into custom-made devices, creating a sealed chamber on the specimen surface connected to a peristaltic pump. Citric acid was injected into the chamber for 2 min, followed by artificial saliva (0.5 or 0.05 ml/min) for 60 min. This cycle was repeated 4×/day for 3 days. Rinse treatments were performed daily 30 min after the 1st and 4th erosive challenges, for 1 min each time. Surface loss was determined by optical profilometry. KOH-soluble fluoride and structurally bound fluoride were determined in specimens at the end of the experiment. Data were analyzed by 2-way ANOVA and Tukey tests (α = 0.05). NaF and CaL + NaF exhibited significantly lower enamel and dentin loss than DIW, with no difference between them for normal flow conditions. The low salivary flow rate increased enamel and dentin loss, except for CaL + NaF, which presented overall higher KOH-soluble and structurally bound fluoride levels. The results suggest that the NaF rinse was able to reduce erosion progression. Although the CaL prerinse considerably increased F availability, it enhanced NaF protection against dentin erosion only under hyposalivatory conditions.
Quantitative light-induced fluorescence to measure enamel remineralization in vitro.	The aim of this study was to compare the ability of quantitative light-induced fluorescence (QLF) and surface microhardness (SMH) to measure the remineralization of enamel subsurface lesions, using a pH-cycling model including treatment with 0-ppm, 550-ppm or 1,100-ppm sodium fluoride (NaF) dentifrices.
Evaluation of remineralization solutions on the milk teeth]	The milk incisors of 80 infant-school children were demineralized. For the following 3 weeks the children then rinsed their mouths with mineral solutions. By manifold replica yields (analysis by light- and scanning electron microscope) and colouring tests a positive influence of calcium and phosphorus holding solutions, among others with magnesium, too, on the remineralization was discovered.
Remineralization of bovine dentine in vitro. The influence of the F content in solution on mineral distribution.	In this paper remineralization of bovine dentine is reported. After demineralization of the dentine in an acidic gel system creating lesions of about 180 microns depth, the tissue was remineralized in a 1.5 mM Ca and 0.9 mM phosphate containing solution at pH 7 and 37 degrees C for 8 or 21 days. The F content in the remineralization solution was 0.02, 2, or 10 ppm as NaF. Samples were analyzed by means of microradiography and scanning electron microscopy. The results show that remineralization (without F added in solution) causes a decrease in mineral loss and in lesion depth. With 2 or 10 ppm in solution, however, a substantial mineral accumulation in the lesion, but particularly on the original dentine surface, was observed. During 3 weeks of remineralization, mineral accumulations of 67 and 70 vol% of mineral for 2 and 10 ppm F in solution, respectively, were found near the original outer surface, with the sound dentine mineral value being 48 vol%. The combined microradiography and scanning electron microscopy data show that the mineral accumulated is for a major part deposited on the dentine tissue and partly inside. The latter deposition occurred both inside the tubules as well as in the intertubular areas. Inside the tubules dense precipitates were observed. Because several differences exist between bovine and human dentine, an extrapolation to the human in vivo situation is speculative. The results indicate that the presence of fluoride in the parts per million range is important for dentine remineralization efficacy and that the outer surface area in dentine can be 'overremineralized'.
De/remineralization from sodium fluoride dentifrices.	To test the demineralization/remineralization effects of sodium fluoride dentifrices using an in situ single-section crown model system.
Role of the acid-etch technique in remineralization of caries-like lesions of enamel: a polarized light and scanning electron microscopic study.	The aim of this in vitro study was to determine the effect of acid-etching on remineralization of caries-like lesions with calcifying fluids (CF). Caries-like lesions were created in two windows of sound enamel on both buccal and lingual surfaces of human molars. A central longitudinal section was taken from each tooth to serve as control lesions (CL). Each tooth was then sectioned into quarters and each quarter assigned to one of four groups: 1) 1mM Ca CF Remineralized (RC1); 2) 1mM Ca CF Remineralized Etch (RE1); 3) 3mM Ca CF Remineralized (RC3); 4) 3mM Ca CF Remineralized Etch (RE3). Lesions in the etch groups were exposed to 30 percent H3PO4 for 30s prior to CF. Etch and non-etch groups were treated with 1mM or 3mM Ca CFs (prepared from HAP [Ca/P ratio = 1.63], pH 7.0, 0.05mM F-) for ten 60-second periods, interspersed with deionized water rinses. Mean lesion depths were determined using a digitized tablet. Following 1mM Ca CF, mean lesion depths were: 179 microns for CL, 157 microns for RC1 and 118 microns for RE1. Following 3mM Ca CF, mean lesion depths were: 188 microns for CL, 171 microns for RC3 and 143 microns for RE3. SEM topographic features of the remineralized etched lesions consisted of adherent surface coatings with finely globular patterns in the 1mM Ca CF group and densely adherent surface coatings which masked the effects of etching in the 3mM Ca CF group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In situ remineralization of enamel lesions using continuous versus intermittent fluoride application.	Remineralization of early enamel lesions was studied in situ using a F chewing gum or a F-releasing device (FRD). Enamel specimens with subsurface lesions were mounted in removable lower appliances in 6 adults. A F-free dentifrice was used for all regimens. Test groups chewed five sticks/day (0.1 mg F/stick), or one FRD (0.5 mg F/day) was mounted in the midline of the appliance. The microhardness was measured after the 21-day intraoral exposure, and in vitro acid resistance testing was performed. Separate specimens were used to measure F content or changes in mineral density. Comparable values for both F gum and FRDs were higher (p > 0.05) than controls for acid resistance testing and percent remineralization. The F content for FRDs exceeded that of both F gum and controls.
The clinical evaluation of the quality of tooth filling after exposure to hydroxyethylidene diphosphonic acid]	Ultrastructure of dental enamel was examined under electron microscope after exposure to hydroxyethylene diphosphonic (HEDP) acid and prophilometry of enamel surface was carried out after its exposure to acid salts; clinical studies in 105 patients aged 18-50 years with different diseases of hard dental tissues were carried out in order to assess the duration of filling preservation after dental enamel treatment with HEDP salts. Clinical results were assessed from subjective sensations of patients and data of examination. The criteria of assessing the results were presence of a filling in a filled carious cavity, marginal adhesion of the filling, alteration of color along the external interface of the filling, caries relapses, status of dental pulp and periapical tissues. Clinical and laboratory studies showed that treatment with HEDP acid creates favorable conditions for tooth filling.
