Effects of metallic or translucent matrices for Class II composite restorations: 4-year clinical follow-up findings.	This study evaluated the performance of composite restorations placed with two matrix and wedge systems 4 years after placement. In a split-mouth design, 23 patients were selected and received at least two class II restorations, one with metallic matrix and wooden wedge and the other with polyester matrix and reflective wedge. One dentist placed the 109 restorations, and all cavities were restored using Single Bond and P-60 (3M ESPE) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Polymerization was performed through occlusal (metallic matrices) or through the reflective wedge (polyester matrices). Restorations were evaluated and categorized as alpha (A), bravo (B), charlie (C), and delta (D; modified United States Public Health System criteria) at baseline and 4 years after placement. Both clinical aspects and interproximal radiographs were considered in the evaluation. Data were analyzed with Mann-Whitney and Friedman tests (α = 0.05). Fifteen subjects (78 teeth/102 proximal surfaces) were reassessed after 4 years. Considering comparisons within matrices in different evaluation time points, no significant differences were observed (p > 0.05). Comparing 4-year to baseline results, the quality of marginal adaptation (40% and 40.4 %, score A), marginal staining (31.3% and 28.8%, score A), and roughness (56% and 46.2%, score A) decreased for metallic and translucent matrices, respectively (p < 0.05), while color match (9.6%, score A), occlusal contacts (75%, score A), and proximal contacts (71.7%, score A) also decreased in quality for translucent matrices (p < 0.001). Although the matrix and wedge systems evaluated showed similar clinical performance, there was clinical quality loss after 4 years, with most of the restorations being still acceptable, and no intervention was necessary.
Study on the microstructure and ESR dosimetry of tetracycline-stained teeth with SEM observation and ESR measurement]	To compare the microstructure and ESR dosimetry between tetracycline-stained teeth and normal teeth by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and electron spin resonance (ESR) dosimeter.
Analysis of the color alteration and radiopacity promoted by bismuth oxide in calcium silicate cement.	The aim of the study was to determine if the increase in radiopacity provided by bismuth oxide is related to the color alteration of calcium silicate-based cement. Calcium silicate cement (CSC) was mixed with 0%, 15%, 20%, 30% and 50% of bismuth oxide (BO), determined by weight. Mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) was the control group. The radiopacity test was performed according to ISO 6876/2001. The color was evaluated using the CIE system. The assessments were performed after 24 hours, 7 and 30 days of setting time, using a spectrophotometer to obtain the ΔE, Δa, Δb and ΔL values. The statistical analyses were performed using the Kruskal-Wallis/Dunn and ANOVA/Tukey tests (p<0.05). The cements in which bismuth oxide was added showed radiopacity corresponding to the ISO recommendations (>3 mm equivalent of Al). The MTA group was statistically similar to the CSC/30% BO group (p>0.05). In regard to color, the increase of bismuth oxide resulted in a decrease in the ΔE value of the calcium silicate cement. The CSC group presented statistically higher ΔE values than the CSC/50% BO group (p<0.05). The comparison between 24 hours and 7 days showed higher ΔE for the MTA group, with statistical differences for the CSC/15% BO and CSC/50% BO groups (p<0.05). After 30 days, CSC showed statistically higher ΔE values than CSC/30% BO and CSC/50% BO (p<0.05). In conclusion, the increase in radiopacity provided by bismuth oxide has no relation to the color alteration of calcium silicate-based cements.
The abrasion of amalgam and composites in the lateral dental region]	In 41 patients class 11 cavities each of the lower jaw were filled with the materials Adaptic, Concise cap, Epoxydent or amalgam. The models made from impressions were systemically measured by a coordinate measuring machine according to a procedure determined by us (measuring error of this method about 15 micron). After one year the following abrasions were found: amalgam 18 micron +/- 58 micron, Adaptic 92 micron +/- 97 micron, Concise Cap 146 micron +/- 75 micron, Epoxydent 38 micron +/- 50 micron. Evaluation of the clinical examination showed that the materials Concise and Epoxydent were significantly inferior as regards border closure than amalgam and Adaptic. We determined further that a large percentage of composite filling showed visible discoloration of the borders (Adaptic 42%, Concise 55%, Epoxydent 80%). Many of the fillings were discolored after a year. Adaptic was highly significantly different with 31.6% discolored fillings to both other materials (Concise 79%, Epoxydent 78.4%).
Experimental dentigerous cysts and enamel hypoplasia: their possible significance in explaining the pathogenesis of human dentigerous cysts.	Cysts lined by epithelium were often found in association with tooth-germ isografts in hamster cheek pouch. They developed from odontogenic epithelium and were in close relation to the crowns of involved teeth. Cysts associated with tooth-germ isografts from 5-day-old animals (17 out of 36) commenced their formation shortly after transplantation as a result of enamel organ degeneration. Teeth associated with these cysts often showed enamel hypoplasia. Accordingly, 86 teeth involved in human dentigerous cysts were examined and 43 were found to possess areas of enamel hypoplasia on their occlusal surfaces or incisal edges. It is suggested that the pathological process initiating cystic degeneration in the enamel organ was also accompanied by degeneration of ameloblasts. When tooth germs from 2-day-old hamsters were transplanted, cystic spaces developed only after completion of enamel formation, 6 weeks following transplantation (in six out of 11 transplants), as a result of separation between the cells of the reduced enamel epithelium. Enamel hypoplasia was not a conspicuous feature. These experimental and clinical observations suggest that there may be at least two types of dentigerous cyst, perhaps with different causes, arising at different stages of tooth development.
Trichodentoosseous (TDO) syndrome: case report and literature review.	Trichodentoosseous (TDO) syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by dysplastic nails, curly hair, bone sclerosis of the long bones and calvarium, taurodontism, and enamel hypoplasia that occurs with hypomaturation/hypocalcification defects. To date, nine previous case reports of TDO in the dental literature have shown that while taurodontism and enamel defects are consistently present in TDO, the changes in the nails, hair, and bones may be variably expressed and occasionally not noted. Because of this, a few previous cases of TDO syndrome had been diagnosed simply as amelogenesis imperfecta. This case report highlights the typical clinical findings, diagnostic problems, and the clues to diagnosing this interesting condition. Clinical management of TDO is centered on preventing dental abscesses with stainless steel crowns and improving appearance with esthetic restorations.
