Effect of sucrose-containing gum and fluoridated dentifrice on in situ remineralization of artificial caries]	The aim of this study was to evaluate the remineralization of incipient carious lesions in bovine enamel in situ. Artificial carious lesions were produced and fixed in removable lower appliances in the region of the lingual surfaces of first molars, in six volunteers with ages between 18 and 22 years, who were subjected to 3 distinct experimental periods of 1 week each. In the first period (control group), patients brushed their teeth with a non-fluoridated dentifrice 4 times a day (after meals), and, in the second period (group I), patients used a dentifrice containing 1,500 ppm of fluorine (in the form of MFP). In the third period (group II) volunteers brushed their teeth with non-fluoridated dentifrice and used chewing gum containing 60% of sucrose during 20 minutes, 4 times a day (after meals). Before and after each treatment, the specimens underwent Vicker's hardness test (200 g of load), and the remineralization percentage (alpha) was calculated. The control group showed 2.78% of demineralization, and groups I and II showed 3.36 and 5.21% of remineralization, respectively. Statistical analysis (with Kruskal-Wallis and Miller's tests) showed significant difference (p < 0.05) between the control and experimental groups (I and II). Group II showed greater alpha than group I, but this difference was not significant. These results suggest that the use of sucrose-containing chewing gum and fluoridated dentifrice has a considerable effect on the remineralization of incipient carious lesions and may be a valuable alternative for their prevention.
Metabolism of teeth and bones of rats following single-sided fluoride application]	The paper reports experimental radioisotopic animal studies of the inclusion of lysine 1C14, P32, and Ca45 in the mineral fraction of molars and bones of rats after semilateral application of fluoride lacquer
Involvement of matrix metalloproteinases in the onset of dentin mineralization.	In order to study the involvement of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) on dentin formation and mineralization, day 18 embryonic mouse tooth germs were cultured for 10 d in the presence or absence of Marimastat, a general MMP inhibitor, or CT(1166), a more selective inhibitor of gelatinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9) and stromelysin-1 (MMP-3). With Marimastat a dose-dependent increase in thickness of the predentin layer and a decreased mineralization of dentin were observed. At the highest concentration of the inhibitor used, enamel formation had ceased. With CT(1166), these effects were already apparent at the lowest concentration used. Western blot analyses demonstrated that the two inhibitors inhibited the expression of enamelysin (MMP-20). These observations indicate that MMPs (possibly MMP-2, -3, -9 and/or -20) play a role in the onset of dentin mineralization. The lack of enamel formation was possibly due to diffusion of amelogenin from its normal site of apposition. The protein clearly was not retained at the surface of the non-mineralized dentin layer, and immunopositive amelogenin accumulated in the odontoblast compartment. The diffusion of enamel proteins and the accumulation revealed by immunolabeling of two small leucine-rich proteoglycans, decorin and biglycan, in the predentin may have contributed to impaired dentin mineralization.
TEGDMA reduces mineralization in dental pulp cells.	Direct application of dentin bonding agents onto the exposed pulp has been advocated, but in vivo studies indicate a lack of reparative dentin formation. Our objective was to investigate the role of triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEGDMA), a commonly used compound in dentin bonding agents, as a potential inhibitor of mineralization. Human pulp cells were exposed to different concentrations of TEGDMA, and expression of the mineralization-related genes collagen I, alkaline phosphatase, bone sialoprotein, osteocalcin, Runx2, and dentin sialophosphoprotein was analyzed. Gene expression studies by real-time polymerase chain-reaction revealed a concentration- and time-dependent decrease of mineralization markers. A subtoxic TEGDMA concentration (0.3 mM) reduced expression levels by 5 to 20% after 4 hrs and by 50% after 12 hrs. Furthermore, alkaline phosphatase activity and calcium deposition were significantly lower in dental pulp cells treated with TEGDMA over 14 days. These findings indicate that even low TEGDMA concentrations might inhibit mineralization induced by dental pulp cells, thus impairing reparative dentin formation after pulp capping with dentin bonding agents.
The effects of tumor necrosis factor-α on mineralization of human dental apical papilla cells.	Human dental apical papilla cells (APCs) have mineralization potential, which plays a key role in the root development of young permanent teeth. Limited literature is available about APC mineralization in the presence of inflammatory cytokines. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) on APC mineralization.
Mineral trioxide aggregate-based endodontic sealer stimulates hydroxyapatite nucleation in human osteoblast-like cell culture.	The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the biocompatibility and bioactivity of a new mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA)-based endodontic sealer, MTA Fillapex (MTA-F; Angelus, Londrina, Brazil), in human cell culture.
In vitro evaluation of the odontogenic potential of mouse undifferentiated pulp cells.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the odontogenic potential of undifferentiated pulp cells (OD-21 cell line) through chemical stimuli in vitro. Cells were divided into uninduced cells (OD-21), induced cells (OD-21 cultured in supplemented medium/OD-21+OM) and odontoblast-like cells (MDPC-23 cell line). After 3, 7, 10 and 14 days of culture, it was evaluated: proliferation and cell viability, alkaline phosphatase activity, total protein content, mineralization, immunolocalization of dentin matrix acidic phosphoprotein 1 (DMP1), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and osteopontin (OPN) and quantification of genes ALP, OSTERIX (Osx), DMP1 and runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) through real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Data were analyzed by Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests (p<0.05). There was a decrease in cell proliferation in OD-21 + OM, whereas cell viability was similar in all groups, except at 7 days. The amount of total protein was higher in group OD-21 + OM in all periods; the same occurred with ALP activity after 10 days when compared with OD-21, with no significant differences from the MDPC-23 group. Mineralization was higher in OD-21+OM when compared with the negative control. Immunolocalization demonstrated that DMP1 and ALP were highly expressed in MDPC-23 cells and OD-21 + OM cells, whereas OPN was high in all groups. Real-time PCR revealed that DMP1 and ALP expression was higher in MDPC-23 cell cultures, whereas RUNX2 was lower for these cells and higher for OD-21 negative control. Osx expression was lower for OD-21 + OM. These results suggest that OD-21 undifferentiated pulp cells have odontogenic potential and could be used in dental tissue engineering.
Evaluation of remineralization solutions on the milk teeth]	The milk incisors of 80 infant-school children were demineralized. For the following 3 weeks the children then rinsed their mouths with mineral solutions. By manifold replica yields (analysis by light- and scanning electron microscope) and colouring tests a positive influence of calcium and phosphorus holding solutions, among others with magnesium, too, on the remineralization was discovered.
Effects of hydrocortisone in the mineralization speed of the dentine.	The effect of hydrocortisone on the rate of mineralization of the dentine of rat incisors has been investigated and a comparative analysis of this effect on the upper and lower incisors as well as the various aspects of these incisors has been made.
De- and remineralization processes of the surface layer of the enamel in intact and pulp-extirpated teeth]	Clinico-laboratory investigation of 61 intact teeth and 61 teeth after pulp extraction was performed, including in vivo acid enamel biopsy and intravital staining with 2% methylene blue solution. The regularities were established governing Ca and P efflux from superficial enamel layer of intact and pulp-extracted teeth into the acid solution with respect to age, group of the tooth and pulp extraction terms. The pulp extraction factor was investigated with special reference to the tooth acid resistance and its remineralization rate.
Ultrastructure of in-vitro recovery of mineralization capacity of fluorotic enamel matrix in hamster tooth germs pre-exposed to fluoride in organ culture during the secretory phase of amelogenesis.	The recovery of mineralization capacity of fluorotic enamel matrix was investigated in 3-day-old hamster first molar tooth germs already pre-exposed in organ culture to 10 parts/10(6) F- for 24 h during the secretory phase. The germs were then cultured for another 24 h in a fresh medium without F-. The unmineralized fluorotic enamel matrix secreted in vitro eventually mineralized in the absence of F- but the orientation of the crystals compared to those in the fluorotic enamel was disturbed, especially in the younger regions of the enamel nearest cervical-loop in which the underlaying fluorotic enamel was most hypermineralized; but least disturbed in the more mature parts of the enamel organ in which the fluorotic enamel was less hypermineralized. The subsequent culture in F(-)-free medium did not abolish or reduce the degree of hypermineralization induced by F- treatment during the initial 24 h of culture. It seems that in vitro the inhibitory effect of F- on enamel matrix mineralization during the secretory phase is completely reversible when the ion is removed from the matrix environment, i.e. F(-)-induced synthesis and secretion of defective enamel matrix is not the cause of the lack of matrix mineralization. The F(-)-induced hypermineralization seems to be irreversible.
Effect of aluminium on mineralization of rat third molar in vitro.	Crl: COBS rat third-molar explants were cultured for 12 days in either 0.6 X 10(-2), 4 X 10(-2) or 6 X 10(-2) mM aluminium, or for 12 days with exposure to 13 X 10(-2) mM Al at different 6-day intervals. Total protein, alkaline phosphatase, calcium and phosphorous were measured to evaluate cell viability and the degree of mineralization. Al in concentrations above 4 X 10(-2) mM significantly reduced the Ca and P content of explants cultured for 12 days. Explants exposed to 13 X 10(-2) mM Al for the first 6 days had less Ca and P than those exposed for the last 6 days of culture. Haematoxylin and eosin-stained sections of explants showed no gross abnormalities.
Problems raised by the use of tetracyclines in the first years of life]	Tetracyclines administered during the first years of life may produce serious unwanted side-effects, such as intracranial hypertension and, chiefly, abnormalities of the teeth and bones. The tetracyclines have a special affinity for certain metal cations, notably calcium, with which they form relatively stable complexes. When given to children or pregnant women they stain the deciduous and permanent teeth a lasting yellowish-brown or give rise to dental abnormalities; they may also slow down skeletal growth. For these reasons tetracyclines should not be prescribed to children and pregnant women unless absolutely necessary, and other classes of antibiotics should be preferred whenever possible.
Remineralization of enamel by a saliva substitute designed for use by irradiated patients.	A saliva substitute, VA-OraLube, was evaluated for ability to reharden dental enamel and to relieve intraoral soft tissue symptoms in patients receiving radiotherapy for malignancies of the head and neck. Treatments of 15, 30 and 60 minutes rehardened enamel by 3.1%, 4.0%, and 5.5%, respectively. In the second experiment, treatment for 60 minutes with the complete solution rehardened enamel by 5.2%. Omitting calcium, phosphorus and/or fluoride from the formulation greatly decreased this rehardening potential. Treatment of enamel with fresh whole saliva induced rehardening at a 7.3% level in comparison to the 5.5% and 5.2% derived by using the saliva substitute. Since the xerostomic patient usually uses the product very frequently, there is a remineralization potential of significant consequence. A total of 125 xerostomic patients used the saliva substitute on an ad lib basis over a period of 4 months. Patient responses indicated a very high level of acceptance and the virtual elimination of troublesome problems previously associated with the dry mouth state.
Effects of fluoride in remineralized human surface enamel on dissolution resistance.	Remineralized surfaces of human tooth enamel were dissolved at constant rates in 10 mM acetic acid at pH 4.0, and in 10 mM EDTA at pH 7.4 in a system that prevented redistribution of dissolved F-. Surfaces remineralized 25 hours in 0.4 mM NaF (8 ppm F-) dissolved slower in acid or in EDTA than those remineralized in the absence of F-. The F- in three-hour remineralized surfaces had no effect on rates of mineral dissolution. Resistance to EDTA, as well as acid of 25-hour remineralized surfaces, indicates the occurrence of a maturation process, which may involve F- exchange for OH- ions in newly formed crystals. The results indicated that F- may slow caries by its action on remineralization if given sufficient time for this maturation.
The effect of fluoride in the remineralization of enamel caries and caries-like lesions in vitro.	Remineralization occurs naturally during the formation of a carious lesion in human dental enamel and is seen in the form of two of the four classical histological zones of the lesion. Exposure of small lesions to a synthetic calcifying in vitro results in a significant increase in remineralization of the lesion. The degree of remineralization achieved depends upon the presence of fluoride ions in the calcifying fluid and its degree of supersaturation. It appears that only low levels of fluoride are required to trigger the mechanism of remineralization; raising the fluoride level further does not result in a greater degree of remineralization. The calcium ion concentration of the calcifying fluid is critical with respect to determining which components are supersaturated and which in turn determines the degree of remineralization achieved. With levels of 3.0 mM calcium only the superficial region of the lesion is remineralized whereas with a calcium concentration of 1.0 mM, remineralization occurs in depth. It is hoped that studies on remineralization phenomena will provide further insight into the mechanisms of caries formation and be the basis for a more powerful and effective form of caries prevention.
Effect of fluorine in drinking water of varying hardness on protein-mineral metabolism of mineralized tissues of rats maintained on a sugar diet]	Variations of mineral and protein metabolism in calcified tissues were studied using 32P, 45Ca and 35S methionine in the rats on sugar diet and water of different hardness with F and without it. Hard drinking water without F like soft water and water of medium hardness with F affect metabolism in mineralized tissues preventing the development of carious process. Incorporation of 32P and 45Ca to mineralized tissues, specific radioactivity of 32P and 35S methionine of tooth and bone proteins are lower in rats which drank soft water without F. These parameters increase in rats which received hard water without F almost to the level of animals which received water with F. Ways of the effect of Ca2+ Mg2+ and F on protein and mineral metabolism of calcified tissues of rats on sugar diet (including proteins (osteo-induced, etc., which initiate mineralization) and enzymes are considered.
