Antibacterial activity of some triclosan-containing toothpastes and their ingredients.	The antibacterial activity of 4 triclosan-containing toothpastes was compared to a conventional fluoride dentifrice and triclosan and sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS), both singly and in combination. A panel of 17 bacteria was tested by an agar dilution method. At concentrations typical of those found in toothpastes, triclosan and SLS displayed approximately equal antibacterial activity. A paste containing triclosan and zinc citrate appeared more active than the other triclosan pastes which, in general, showed marginal superiority over the conventional paste. SLS, although included in dentifrice formulations for its detergent properties, may significantly contribute to the antibacterial profile of a product. The need for appropriate controls when evaluating experimental toothpastes is emphasized.
Effects of different brands of fluoride dentifrices on dental caries incidence in the rat.	The effectiveness of 3 different brands of fluoride-containing dentifrices on the prevention of dental caries was investigated in molars of young rats. Forty albino Wistar rats weighing 50-80g, 28 males and 12 females were inoculated in the mouth with streptococcus viridans daily from day 1 to day 5 of the experiment. The animals were then divided into four groups and fed with rat pellets containing 60% sucrose added as granulated sugar. All the groups were given water ad libitum. Group I had daily tooth brushing with water and served as the control while groups II, III and IV received daily brushing of their molar teeth with different fluoride--containing dentifrices: (Maxam, Florish and Close-Up respectively. All topical treatments were given for one minute daily per rat from day 6 to day 56 of the experiment. At the end of the experiment the animals were sacrificed, the jaws removed and the teeth were scored for occlusal caries. All fluoride--containing dentifrices tested reduced caries in the following order: Maxam 37.86%, Florish 59.22% and Close-Up 57.28%. This study confirmed that fluoride incorporated in Florish and Close-Up showed significant levels of caries reduction (P <0.01) and (P <0.05) respectively in the rat. It also adds credence to Dental Health Education in the application of various tooth pastes in oral hygiene measures.
Organotypic human oral tissue models for toxicological studies.	Three-dimensional models of the human oral epithelia have been developed to test the irritation of oral-care products and to provide systems to study the pathology of the oral cavity. The in vitro tissue models, cultured using normal oral epithelial cells and serum free medium, adopt a buccal or gingival phenotype. The buccal tissue (designated ORL-200) is 8-12 cell layers thick and non-cornified; the gingival tissue (designated GIN-100) is 9-13 layers thick and cornified at the apical surface. The tissues express cytokeratins 13 and 14 similar to their corresponding native oral tissues. The MTT viability assay was used to assess inter-lot and intra-lot reproducibility. The MTT average intra-lot coefficient of variation (CV) was less than 10% for both tissues and the time required to reduce tissue viability by 50% (ET-50) following application of 1% Triton-X 100 averaged 1.02+/-0.33 h (n=26) and 7.97+/-0.80 h (n=14) for the buccal and gingival tissues, respectively. The utility of the buccal tissue for irritation studies was examined by testing prototype dentifrice formulations and commercially available products including mouthwashes, toothpastes, and oral cleansers. Use of the MTT ET-50 assay and cytokine release clearly differentiated between the formulations and the oral care products. In conclusion, the oral tissue models represent highly reproducible, non-animal means to screen the irritation potential of newly developed oral care products and should be useful to study the innate immunity, biology, and pathology of the oral mucosa.
Candida albicans biofilm formation on soft denture liners and efficacy of cleaning protocols.	The aim of this study was to investigate Candida albicans biofilm formation on denture liners and to analyse the efficacy of cleaning protocols.
Interactions of dentine desensitisers with human dentine: morphology and composition.	To evaluate the effect of desensitising agents on human dentine morphology and composition.
Changes in the properties of the enamel of the permanent teeth in children using fluoride-containing toothpastes]	Focal demineralization of the enamel of permanent teeth was studied in 104 schoolchildren aged 9 to 12 over the course of prophylaxis (cleaning the teeth with fluorine-containing toothpastes). The parameters checked up were the intensity of coloring, size and electric conductivity of the spots, and the rate of remineralization of the enamel of permanent teeth. For a year a strong correlation between the tested characteristics of the enamel and saliva was observed. Some age-specific characteristics of permanent teeth enamel were detected. Age group of 11 to 12 years should be distinguished in prophylactic and control groups, because it is at this age that all the tested properties of the enamel are the most liable to change: electric conductivity, permeability, and remineralization rate. This period seems to be characterized by a specific reaction of all systems and organs of the body to environmental exposures. Remineralizing prophylaxis was found to be the most effective at the age of 9 to 10 years. The findings permit us emphasize the contribution of fluorine contained in the Blendax fluorine-containing toothpaste used by the children to the major components of the pathologic process (white spots) and enamel remineralization at the stage of its maturation.
Effect of fluoride dentifrices on salivary fluoride levels in children.	Fluoride dentifrices are well accepted for their caries preventive effects. The fluoride concentration in the oral fluids after tooth brushing with fluoride dentifrices may have an important relationship to the caries reducing capacity. The present study was aimed to clinically evaluate the salivary fluoride retention of dentifrices containing low fluoride concentration in 50 children, aged 7-9 years before, during and after the use of fluoride toothpaste. Estimation of fluoride in saliva was done using a Orion microprocessor ion analyser with a fluoride specific ion electrode. The results of the present study suggest that there is considerable salivary fluoride retention after brushing with fluoride dentifrices. The retention of fluoride in the saliva at a higher level even with the low fluoride concentration, proves the similar cariostatic effect as of higher concentration.
