Dental diseases of puppies and kittens.	Although there are certain differences warranting specific options therapeutically in young animals, many of the basic dental principles still apply. The key is examining the oral cavity of every patient at each visit and knowing how to recognize and manage any abnormalities encountered. Providing sound oral care from the time of a patient's first visit can figure significantly in a lifelong commitment to oral health that can have a positive impact on the patient's overall health.
A review of equine dental disorders.	Equine dentistry is a very important but until recently rather neglected area of equine practice, with many horses suffering from undiagnosed, painful dental disorders. A thorough clinical examination using a full mouth speculum is a pre-requisite to performing any equine dental procedure. Common incisor disorders include: prolonged retention of deciduous incisors, supernumerary incisors and overjet--the latter usually accompanied by cheek teeth (CT) overgrowths. Overjet can be surgically corrected, but perhaps should not be in breeding animals. In younger horses, traumatically fractured incisors with pulpar exposure may survive by laying down tertiary dentine. Loss or maleruption of incisors can cause uneven occlusal wear that can affect mastication. Idiopathic fractures and apical infection of incisors are rare. The main disorder of canine teeth is the development of calculus of the lower canines, and occasionally, developmental displacements and traumatic fractures. The main indications for extraction of "wolf teeth" (Triadan 05s) are the presence of displaced or enlarged wolf teeth, or their presence in the mandible. Developmental abnormalities of the CT include; rostral positioning of the upper CT rows in relation to the lower CT rows--with resultant development of focal overgrowths on the upper 06s and the lower 11s. Displaced CT develop overgrowths on unopposed aspects of the teeth and also develop periodontal disease in the inevitable abnormal spaces (diastemata) that are present between displaced and normal teeth. Diastemata of the CT due to excessive developmental spacing between the CT or to inadequate compression of the CT rows is a common but under diagnosed problem in many horses and causes very painful periodontal disease and quidding. Supernumerary CT mainly occur at the caudal aspect of the CT rows and periodontal disease commonly occurs around these teeth. Eruption disorders of CT include prolonged retention of remnants of deciduous CT ("caps") and vertical impaction of erupting CT that may lead to large eruption cysts and possibly then to apical infections. Disorders of wear, especially enamel overgrowths ("enamel points"), are the main equine dental disorder and are believed to be largely due to the dietary alterations associated with domestication. If untreated, such disorders will eventually lead to more severe CT disorders such as shearmouth and also to widespread periodontal disease. More focal dental overgrowths will develop opposite any CT not in full opposition to their counterpart, e.g., following maleruption of or loss of a CT. Because of the great length of reserve crown in young (hypsodont) CT, apical infections usually cause infection of the supporting bones and depending on the CT involved, cause facial swellings and fistulae and possibly sinusitis. Diagnosis of apical infection requires radiography, and possibly scintigraphy and other advanced imaging techniques in some early cases. When possible, oral extraction of affected CT is advocated, because it reduces the costs and risks of general anaesthesia and has much less post-extraction sequelae than CT repulsion or buccotomy.
Establishing content validity of the oral assessment guide in children and young people.	There is a need for accurate and consistent oral assessment to measure mucosal changes and oral complications associated with cancer therapies. Mucositis is an important and common side effect of cancer therapies that merits the identification of improved health-care interventions. Developing appropriate and reliable oral assessment instruments for use with children is relevant to the evaluation of these interventions. The purpose of this study was to determine the content validity of the oral assessment guide (OAG) in children: an instrument that was designed to objectively assess the physiological changes of the oral cavity following administration of chemotherapy and radiotherapy to adults. This process is considered to be most effective when undertaken systematically. A judgement quantification process was used with health care professionals in paediatric oncology to establish content validity of items (n=9) and instrument (n=10). A revised OAG more pertinent to children and young people was produced in the light of this process.
Analysis of etiological factors involved in noncarious cervical lesions]	The etiopathology of noncarious cervical lesions (NCCL) is multifactorial and still not fully understood. Tooth wear is defined as loss of dental hard tissue by a chemical or mechanical process that does not involve bacteria. This form of tooth surface loss includes attrition, abrasion, erosion, and abfraction. Noncarious cervical lesions represent loss of tooth structure at the cementoenamel junction. The purpose of this clinical study of NCCL was to analyze the etiology in relation to age and to identify the most important risk factors associated with cervical lesions, as well as patients and teeth more susceptible to NCCL with a focus on more effective treatment of this condition.
Oral diseases: from detection to diagnostics.	In addition to saliva, other oral components such as gingival crevicular fluid, epithelial cells, bacteria, breath, and dental plaque have diagnostic potential. For oral diseases such as caries and periodontal disease, visual diagnosis is usually adequate, but objective diagnostic tests with predictive value are desired. Therefore, prediction models like the Cariogram have been developed that also include oral aspects such as saliva secretion, buffering capacity, and Streptococcus mutans counts for the prediction of caries. Correlation studies on salivary components and caries have not been conclusive, but correlation studies on functional aspects, such as saliva-induced bacterial aggregation and caries, look promising. Modern proteomic techniques make it possible to study simultaneously the many salivary components involved in these functions.
Establishment and evaluation of a scale method for rating children's behavior in dental clinic in China]	To establish and evaluate a scale method for rating children's behavior in dental clinic in China.
Common oral conditions in older persons.	Older persons are at risk of chronic diseases of the mouth, including dental infections (e.g., caries, periodontitis), tooth loss, benign mucosal lesions, and oral cancer. Other common oral conditions in this population are xerostomia (dry mouth) and oral candidiasis, which may lead to acute pseudomembranous candidiasis (thrush), erythematous lesions (denture stomatitis), or angular cheilitis. Xerostomia caused by underlying disease or medication use may be treated with over-the-counter saliva substitutes. Primary care physicians can help older patients maintain good oral health by assessing risk, recognizing normal versus abnormal changes of aging, performing a focused oral examination, and referring patients to a dentist, if needed. Patients with chronic, disabling medical conditions (e.g., arthritis, neurologic impairment) may benefit from oral health aids, such as electric toothbrushes, manual toothbrushes with wide-handle grips, and floss-holding devices.
Opinions of Early Head Start staff about the provision of preventive dental services by primary medical care providers.	This study investigates the opinions of the Early Head Start (EHS) staff about physicians and nurses providing preventive dental services for children in EHS.
Managing common oral problems: some considerations.	In the absence of early interventions, incipient dental problems can progress to destructive and even fatal outcomes. It is particularly important that primary health personnel correctly diagnose a presenting condition and provide care as early as possible. Some considerations are presented to assist in recognizing and managing common mouth problems.
Oral findings in a child with lipoid proteinosis: a case report and review.	Lipoid proteinosis, a very rare autosomal recessive genodermatosis, results in hyaline material deposition in the skin and mucous membrane of various organs leading to multisystem involvement. A case report of a 12-year-old female child is presented here who showed classic features of the disease with generalized thickening, hardening, and scarring of the skin and vocal cord infiltration causing voice changes. The patient also had numerous oral mucosal and dental findings. The knowledge of the clinical features of the disease may help the oral health professional in rendering the appropriate treatment in order to improve the quality of life deteriorated by the disease.
Dentoalveolar infections.	Dentoalveolar infections represent a wide spectrum of conditions, from simple localized abscesses to deep neck space infections. The initial assessment of the patient with a dentoalveolar infection requires considerable clinical skill and experience, and determines the need for further airway management or emergent surgical therapy. Knowledge of head and neck fascial space anatomy is essential in diagnosing, understanding spread, and surgically managing these infections. Oral and maxillofacial surgeons must make use of their wide spectrum of clinical skill and knowledge to effectively evaluate and treat patients with dentoalveolar infections.
Dental magnetic resonance imaging: making the invisible visible.	Clinical dentistry is in need of noninvasive and accurate diagnostic methods to better evaluate dental pathosis. The purpose of this work was to assess the feasibility of a recently developed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique, called SWeep Imaging with Fourier Transform (SWIFT), to visualize dental tissues.
Oral findings in patients with mucolipidosis type III.	Mucolipidosis type III is a rare, autosomal recessive disorder, which is part of a group of storage diseases as a result of inborn error of lysosomal enzyme metabolism. It is characterized by the gradual onset of signs and symptoms affecting the physical and mental development as well as visual changes, heart, skeletal and joint. Although oral findings associated with mucolipidosis type II have been extensively reported, there is a shortage of information on mucolipidosis type III. This paper presents radiological and histological findings of multiple radiolucent lesions associated with impacted teeth in the jaw of a 16 year-old youngster with mucolipidosis type III.
Establishing the diagnostic criteria for eruption disorders based on genetic and clinical data.	Proper diagnosis and management of eruption disturbances remains challenging but is critical to a functional occlusion. The objective of this study was to establish definitive criteria to differentiate and diagnose eruption disorders, specifically primary failure of eruption (PFE) and ankylosis.
Advanced imaging in equine dental disease.	Dental and sinus disorders are relatively common and of major clinical importance in equine medicine. Advanced diagnostic imaging has become an integral part of equine veterinary medicine. Advanced imaging has progressed the understanding, diagnosis, and treatment of dental- and sinus-related diseases. As a clinician, it is important to realize the value of advanced diagnostic imaging. Although computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are both significantly more expensive compared with other diagnostic tools, the financial cost of inaccurate diagnosis and treatment can often result in higher overall costs. 
New ways to diagnose and treat equine dental-related sinus disease.	The diagnosis and treatment of equine dental-related sinus disease is often challenging. Dental-related sinus disease is common and knowledge of these diseases is becoming increasingly important in veterinary medicine. Diagnostic capabilities are continually improving, leading to early diagnostic and therapeutic successes. With advanced imaging modalities, such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, understanding of the intimate anatomic relationship between teeth and the paranasal sinuses continues to progress. There are many therapeutic options available for the treatment of these common and challenging disorders. A complete understanding of the disease, therapeutic options, and potential complications is vital to overall successful resolution of clinical signs in equine dental-related sinus disorders. 
The gold standard of dental care for the adult performance horse.	This article discusses the primary odontogenic problems of the mature performance horse, including wolf teeth; hooks; overbite, overjet, underjet, and wry bite; equine odontoclastic tooth resorption and hypercementosis; infundibular caries; and secondary oral problems. It outlines the author's methods of taking the history, oral examination, and use of diagnostic nerve blocks. 
The orodental status of anorexics and bulimics.	This study aims to assess the dental status of anorexics and bulimics by comparison to age-matched controls. One hundred and eight individuals participated, of which 58 had an eating disorder. This group were further subdivided into bulimics who induced vomiting (33), bulimics who did not vomit (7), and anorexics (18). The caries experience (DMFS), plaque levels, gingival inflammation and buffering capacity of saliva were assessed and total vomiting episodes estimated from the product of vomiting frequency and duration. Statistical analysis (one way ANOVA) revealed no significant differences with most of the dental variables between the eating disorder groups and the controls. A linear association (Pearson correlation coefficient) between vomiting frequency, duration or total vomiting episodes and tooth wear was not found, although the frequency of pathological tooth wear is significantly high in the vomiting bulimic group, especially if the total number of vomiting episodes is greater than 1100.
The psychosocial aspects of adolescent pregnancy: a dental perspective.	This paper presents some of the psychological and social aspects of the adolescent who is pregnant, and how the combination of adolescence and pregnancy affect the dental management of these patients.
Pathology in the lower half of the functional face - its significance in clinical medicine.	The term "functional" face is introduced, defined, and its significance as a major reception area is stressed. Common symptoms (fatigue, headache, dizziness, nausea, tension and irritability) whose aetiology and pathogenesis are often unknown or unclear, an presumed by many to have a psychogenic origin, may have their source in locally asymptomatic pathology in the mandible and maxillae (impacted teeth (1), non-vital teeth and residual infection (2)). Reasons are suggested for physicians and dentists overlooking this pathology. Based on known and accepted anatomical, physiological and pathological considerations a new evaluation of this locally asymptomatic pathology is offered. It will be argued that, at present, the diagnosis of psychogenic origin for these symptoms is untenable. Clinical evidence supporting the hypothesis is provided.
Analysis of activities of the preventive dentistry service in the Health Area 8 of the Valencia Autonomous Region]	We describe and analize the activities we carried out in a surgery from a preventive dentistry unit.
Dentogenic sources of infection in patients with awaiting heart valve replacement]	The detection of all teeth with periapical pathological conditions and optimal treatment of the affected teeth are a part of the evaluation program for patients who are scheduled to undergo cardiac value replacement. 48 patients (50 value replacement operations) were evaluated for the incidence of periapical pathological conditions, as well as for the different kinds of oral surgical interventions. A periapical pathological condition was present in 28 of 48 patients (58.3%). In general, the incidence of a dental focus was significantly higher in patients awaiting aortic valve replacement than in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement (69.7% vs. 23.1%; p < 0.01). Patients for aortic valve replacement presented significantly more periapical pathological conditions than patients for mitral valve replacement (1.7 vs. 0.8). Optimal timing of dental consultations is helpful in the oral rehabilitation of patients about to undergo a valve replacement procedure. Furthermore, close interdisciplinary cooperation is necessary to minimize the social and psychological problems following unexpected tooth extractions. Cardiologists and heart surgeons have an important role in the organisation of the oral rehabilitation of patients undergoing valve replacement procedures.
Dental care for patients with hematological diseases]	Clinical and cytological studies in 41 hematological patients aged 19-70 years showed appreciable shifts in the immune status and nonspecific reactivity virtually in all examinees. Layers of cellular epithelium of late (V-VI) and early (III-IV) stages were more often detected in smears impressions than individual cells. Cells of stages I-II were scarce and never formed layers. In patients with leukemia, signs of dissociation of epitheliocyte nucleus and cytoplasm maturation were observed ("mature" cytoplasm and "young" nuclei). These specific shifts should be borne in mind when rendering dental care to hematological patients.
Dental problems in rabbits and rodents. I. Anatomy, physiology, symptomatology, diagnosis]	Dental and oral problems in rodents and rabbits are common in veterinary practice. Anatomy and physiology of the different dentition, the common symptoms and the clinical diagnosis are discussed in the first part of this article. In the next article treatment and prevention are described.
