CT features of alveolitis and sinusitis in horses.	Sinusitis is a common disorder in horses and may result from trauma, dental diseases, or space-occupying lesions. Radiography can only provide a limited amount of information. Computed tomography (CT) has been documented as an alternative imaging method. Eighteen horses (mostly Warmblood) with signs of chronic sinusitis were examined preoperatively with CT to assist in diagnosis of the underlying cause. There was a group of common CT features in horses with dental disease and sinusitis. The first molar was the most frequently affected maxillary cheek tooth. Hypoattenuation of the cementum, destruction of the enamel, and filling of the infundibular cavity with gas were the most frequent CT findings associated with caries. Gas bubbles within the bulging root area or fragmentation of the root in combination with swelling of the adjacent sinus lining were the most important CT features of dental decay. CT findings associated with sinusitis included excessive thickening of the respiratory epithelium in the rostral maxillary sinus; the caudal maxillary sinus was less often involved. The infraorbital canal, the nasomaxillary duct, and the frontomaxillary aperture were usually involved. The maxillary bone, however, especially the facial crest, was involved in nearly every horse, being characterized by endosteal sclerosis, thickening, periosteal reaction, and deformation leading to facial swelling in chronic infections. CT images allowed identification of involvement of individual teeth more clearly to reveal the diseased one for treatment. Three-dimensional imaging allowed improved understanding of the extent and severity of the pathologic change.
Outcomes of digital X-ray mini-panel examinations for patients having mental retardation and developmental disability.	Severely and profoundly mentally retarded and developmentally disabled (MR/DD) patients are unable to communicate disease symptoms, and radiographic examinations are often difficult to perform on non-sedated patients. This clinical trial evaluated the impact on dental treatment planning of radiographic mini-panels for MR/DD patients.
Cone beam computed tomography in the diagnosis of dental disease.	Conventional radiographs provide important information for dental disease diagnosis. However, they represent 2-D images of 3-D objects with significant structure superimposition and unpredictable magnification. Cone beam computed tomography, however, allows true 3-D visualization of the dentoalveolar structures, avoiding major limitations of conventional radiographs. Cone beam computed tomography images offer great advantages in disease detection for selected patients. The authors discuss cone beam computed tomography applications in dental disease diagnosis, reviewing the pertinent literature when available.
A study of selection criteria for intraoral dental radiography.	This study was undertaken to determine whether adequate diagnostic information could be obtained from a thorough clinical examination supplemented with a limited number of intraoral radiographs, the exact number of films determined in each case by applying a set of historical and/or clinical selection criteria. The 100 patients in this study required an average of 8.2 periapical radiographs (range, 0 to 18), in addition to posterior bitewing films to complete the diagnostic process. Later evaluation of complete-mouth surveys on these patients revealed that no cases of periodontitis, no periapical lesions, and no impacted teeth were overlooked when selection criteria were used. Forty-two unsuspected abnormalities were found, but only three of these required treatment-a root tip close to the surface and enlarged follicular spaces distal to two clinically erupted third molars.
The role of computed tomography in the evaluation of cemento-osseous lesions.	The role of computed tomography (CT) and CT numbers in the evaluation of fibro-osseous and cementum-containing lesions is discussed. The computed tomographic findings in a case of cemento-ossifying fibroma involving the maxilla and maxillary sinus are presented.
Generalized hypercementosis.	The case of an elderly female patient with a long-standing history of generalized hypercementosis is described. A thorough review of the literature indicates that this may be one of the most extensive cases of hypercementosis to be reported. Possible etiologic factors--including heredity, systemic disorders, chronic periapical infection, and abnormal occlusal trauma--are discussed.
Ankylosis of maxillary permanent first molar.	A case of ankylosis of the maxillary right first permanent molar has been described. For 19 months, no change had been observed clinically or radiographically in the development of the tooth. A diagnosis of ankylosis of the unerupted tooth was made. Instead of extracting the tooth, the ankylosed tooth was rocked in the bone to break the point of ankylosis. The tooth subsequently erupted and satisfactory functional results were obtained. It is suggested that this procedure should be attempted in other cases of ankylosis of permanent teeth.
The use of panoramic radiology in dental practice.	Approximately 1.5 million panoramic radiographs are taken annually in the general dental service in England and Wales. The aim of this review was to assess the clinical role of panoramic radiology in the diagnosis of diseases associated with the teeth and to consider its value in routine screening of patients.
