Fluoride intake from foods, beverages and dentifrice by young children in communities with negligibly and optimally fluoridated water: a pilot study.	While the level of fluoride intake that affords optimal cariostatic efficacy without causing dental fluorosis is not precisely known, it has been suggested that the threshold of fluoride exposure above which fluorosis may occur is between 0.05 and 0.07 mg/kg/day.
Caries experience in 3-7 year-old children in Haryana (India).	A study was carried out to know the prevalence of dental caries in 509 primary school children in the age group of 3-7 years. The mean prevalence of caries in all the age group from 3 to 6 year was 33.8% while the prevalence 6 years was 38.2%. It was seen that prevalence was significantly higher (P < 0.05) at the age of 6 years (dmft = 0.91 SD = 1.40) as compared to 3 years (dmft = 0.41 SD = 1.16). Deciduous molars were most affected by caries and prevalence of restored teeth was 1.2%. The difference between males and females was statistically significant and the mean dmft per child was found to be 0.73 and mean dmft per affected child was 2.37. Assessment regarding oral hygiene habits depicted that only 3% of children cleaned their teeth once a day with tooth brush and tooth paste.
Practice patterns of board-certified pediatric dentists: frequency and method of cleaning children's teeth.	The purpose of this study was to assess the periodicity of the recall examination and frequency and most often used technique for cleaning children's teeth. The resulting data were compared to current scientific evidence and recommendations to determine the appropriateness of practices by board-certified pediatric dentists.
Tooth-brushing and dentifrice use among children ages 6 to 60 months.	Tooth-brushing and fluoride dentifrice use are the primary oral health activities for young children. Fluoridated dentifrice has had an important impact on the reduction in children's caries lesion rates, but no studies have focused on patterns of use at multiple time points early in life. The purpose of this paper is to describe tooth-brushing and fluoride dentifrice use in a cohort of children from ages 6 to 60 months.
Factors associated with self-reported halitosis in Kuwaiti patients.	Oral malodor is a common complaint of dental patients, yet limited data is available on the actual prevalence of this condition. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence and factors associated with self-reported halitosis in Kuwaiti patients.
The prevalence of dentine hypersensitivity among adult patients attending a Nigerian teaching hospital.	The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of dentine hypersensitivity and to examine some associated factors such as initiating stimuli among adult patients attendingthe Dental Clinic of the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife, Nigeria.
Dental caries prevalence and risk factors among 12-year old schoolchildren from Baghdad, Iraq: a post-war survey.	To examine the prevalence of dental caries in 12-year-old schoolchildren from Baghdad after the end of the United Nations' economic sanctions and to investigate related dental caries risk factors including gender, socio-demographic factors, oral hygiene and sugar intake.
The influence of hygiene and health habits on the concentration of some ions in saliva of postmenopausal women]	The study was designed to evaluate the influence of tooth-brushing, milk consumption, hormone therapy, allergy, and cigarette smoking on the content of fluoride, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in saliva.
Socioeconomic and sociodemographic variables associated with oral hygiene status in Mexican schoolchildren aged 6 to 12 years.	The purpose of this study was to identify the socioeconomic and sociodemographic variables associated with oral hygiene status in schoolchildren aged 6 to 12 years in Navolato, Sinaloa, Mexico.
Dental erosion and associated factors among factory workers exposed to inorganic acid fumes.	The occurrence of dental erosion and the relative importance of some related factors were explored in a cross-sectional study, using blind dental examinations. A sample of 186 workers from four factories was drawn. Among the 157 dentate participants 76 were working in departments containing acid fumes and 81 controls had never worked under such conditions. Out of the dentate participants, 20 (12.7% had erosion). Anterior teeth were affected more often than posterior ones. Exposure to acid fumes, increasing age and frequency of intake of fruits increased the probability of dental erosion. It can be concluded that exposure to acid fumes in the work environment is associated with dental erosion especially on anterior teeth.
The Finnish family competence study: dental oral self-care behaviour and awareness of gingivitis/calculus in fathers of young families.	The purpose of this study was to examine oral self-care behaviour and the prevalence of gingivitis and dental calculus in fathers of young families using a questionnaire. The participation rate at 18 months after the birth of the first child was 73.1%. The mean age of the respondents (n = 917) was 28.1 years (range 17-49; SD 4.6). Dental health and dental care were assessed by asking about the existence of gingivitis and dental calculus. Oral hygiene habits were analysed by asking about the use of toothpicks and dental floss and the regularity of toothbrushing. Gingivitis and dental calculus were found to be related to age and to educational and occupational status. The older respondents used dental floss and toothpicks more often and brushed their teeth more regularly than those in the younger age group. When the wife's knowledge was poor, the respondent's oral hygiene habits were also poor. If the wife's knowledge level was good, the young father's oral hygiene was good, too. Parents transfer their own oral health care habits to their children. Respondents whose parents had a high socio-economic status exhibited good oral hygiene habits. The Maternity Health Care Clinic and Well-Baby Clinic network can also influence oral health care habits. The relevant parts of general prophylactic guidance given at these clinics should be included in dental health programmes.
The frequency of mother-infant salivary close contacts and maternal caries activity affect caries occurrence in 4-year-old children.	Dental caries was investigated in 248 4-year-old children in the Lohja District Health Centre, Finland in relation to the postpartum caries incidence rate in their mothers and the frequency of salivary close contacts between mothers and babies when the latter were 7 months old. Dental caries occurred in 32% of the children. Frequent maternal consumption of sugar-containing foods and drinks was significantly associated with a high maternal caries incidence rate. The mothers who had frequent close contacts with their babies gave them significantly more sweet comforters than the mothers who did not have close contacts frequently. However, only 25% of the children (n = 44) who had frequent maternal close contacts and whose mothers had a high caries incidence rate had caries, although levels of risk factors (bottle feeding with juices, frequent consumption of refined foodstuffs, added sugar and sweets, infrequent toothbrushing) were highest for these children. Dental caries was significantly more frequent in children in whom maternal caries incidence was low and close contacts were frequent (n = 35, 40%) and in those in whom maternal caries incidence was high and close contacts were rare (n = 55, 45%) than in those in whom maternal caries incidence was low and close contacts rare (n = 68, 18%). The results of the study support the theory that maternal caries incidence and salivary contacts with a child are connected with caries infection and immunity. Variations in bacterial challenge via such factors before and during the eruption of teeth may modify caries development in the primary dentition.
Prevalence of breath malodour in 7- 11-year-old children living in Middle Anatolia, Turkey.	To determine the prevalence of breath malodour and to assess the relationships between breath malodour parameters such as dental caries, habitual mouth breathing, tooth-brushing, and the frequency of upper respiratory-tract infection.
Dental health and dietary habits in Greek immigrant children in southern Sweden compared with Swedish and rural Greek children.	Dental health and dietary habits were surveyed in 40 Greek immigrant (GI) children, 2-8 years old, born and living in Helsingborg, Sweden; comparisons were made with 45 Swedish (S) and 54 rural Greek (G) children of the same age. The caries situation was virtually the same in the GI and the S group, where the primary teeth were caries-free in 31-33%, mainly children 2-3 years old. The G group had a higher incidence of decayed and filled tooth surfaces in both primary and permanent teeth than the other two groups and only 15% were caries-free in the primary teeth. The S group had the lowest gingival bleeding index. The distribution of the mutans streptococci and lactobacilli counts in saliva did not differ significantly between the three groups, except that the proportion of GI children with "not detectable" mutans streptococci was lower in either the S or the G group. The toothbrushing frequency was highest in the S group, followed by the GI group. Approximately 80% of the S children who brushed their teeth used a fluoride toothpaste compared to 50 and 55% respectively in the G and the GI group. The intake frequency for 5 out of 6 preselected snack-food items was highest in the G group. The carbohydrate content of the diet, including sucrose, was approximately the same in the three groups. Thus, the dental health and dietary habits of the Greek immigrant and the Swedish children were generally very similar, while the Greek rural children showed a less favourable cariological status.
Oral health in adolescents with immigrant background in Stockholm.	Dental caries and periodontal health was studied in 225 18- and 19-year-old adolescents with different ethnic background. The results showed that immigrant adolescents exhibit an increased prevalence of periodontal disease compared to the Swedish control group whereas no differences were found concerning the prevalence of dental caries. Alveolar bone loss was diagnosed on one or more surfaces in 4.3% of the Swedish adolescents compared to 16.2% in the immigrant group. Subgingival calculus was found among 5.3% of the Swedish adolescents compared to 35.1% in the immigrant group. This study shows that immigrant adolescents must be considered at high risk to develop periodontal disease during adolescents while dental caries can be managed.
Dental caries risk indicators among Australian Aboriginal young adults.	To determine dental caries risk indicators among a birth cohort of Australian Aboriginal young adults (n=442).
A study of developmental defects in enamel in 10-year-old high social class children residing in a non-fluoridated area.	This study investigated the relationship between reported exposure to fluoride in the form of toothpaste and fluoride supplements, the level of observed developmental defects in enamel and the caries experience in a sample of 10-year-old children. Using a modified and simplified version of the developmental defects of enamel index, 300 10-year-old children who had been continually resident in non-fluoridated high social class areas were examined. The examination was followed by a questionnaire to parents on their child's fluoride supplement and toothpaste usage, and toothbrushing habits in early childhood. The prevalence of developmental defects in enamel was lower than that reported elsewhere. A large number of children had diffuse developmental defects but had no history of exposure to fluoride supplements. The only differentiating factor between this group and a similar group with no diffuse defects was in the amount of toothpaste dispensed during toothbrushing prior to the age of six. There was no association between caries experience and the presence or absence of developmental defects. It was concluded that parents of children from a high social class background should supervise the brushing of their children's teeth and use only a pea-sized amount of toothpaste.
Dental fluorosis: an epidemiological investigation in the area of Ouardanine in Tunisia]	In this work, we carried out a transverse epidemiological investigation about the oral health state of pupils in the Ouardanine area. The investigation concerned 300 fifteen-year-old pupils. An amount of fluoride was administrated within drinking water. Further studies, within few years, will be desirableto follow the fluorosis evolution in this area.
Oral hygiene and periodontal disease in Victorian nursing homes.	To investigate oral hygiene and periodontal disease in residents of Victoria nursing homes.
Prevalence of oral health status in visually impaired children.	The epidemiological investigation was carried out among 228 children selected from two schools of similar socioeconomic strata in and around Chennai city.
Validity of 5-year-old children's oral hygiene pattern referred by mothers.	To determine the validity of oral hygiene questions for children, as commonly used in epidemiological studies, and assess their validity by family income and mother's education.
Oral health status in a group of the elderly population residing at home.	To determine the oral health status and treatment needs of subjects aged 65 years and older residing in different districts of Ankara.
A preliminary assessment of the periodontal status of elderly pensioners in Benin City, Nigeria.	This study was to assess the periodontal status of pensioners in Benin City and obtain baseline data.
Associations of instrumental activities of daily living and handgrip strength with oral self-care among home-dwelling elderly 75+.	To study the associations of instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) and the handgrip strength with oral self-care among dentate home-dwelling elderly people in Finland.
Assessment of periodontal status and treatment needs among 12 and 15 years old school children in Udaipur, India.	To assess and compare the periodontal status and treatment needs among school children aged 12 and 15 years in public and private schools of Udaipur, India and to provide baseline data for planning and evaluation of oral health care promotion programmes.
Socioeconomic status, toothbrushing frequency, and health-related behaviors in adolescents: an analysis using the PeNSE database]	This study investigated the association between oral and general health-related behaviors and socioeconomic status, and the relationship between health-related behaviors and toothbrushing among adolescents. The database used here was the National School-Based Health Survey (PeNSE), a cross-sectional population-based study in 2009 with students from 27 Brazilian State capitals. Socio-demographic and health-related behavior data were collected. The survey included 49,189 adolescents (47.5% males), the majority of whom were 14 years of age and enrolled in public schools. The associations between toothbrushing frequency and other health-related behaviors and socioeconomic status varied between boys and girls. Associations were observed between health-related habits and toothbrushing frequency in both sexes, but with variations according to socioeconomic status. Planning health promotion interventions for adolescents should take their individual characteristics and family and social context into account.
Prevalence of dental caries among a cohort of preschool children living in Gampaha district, Sri Lanka: a descriptive cross sectional study.	Dental caries among young children are a global problem. Scant attention is paid towards primary teeth, leading to high prevalence of dental caries. There are only few studies done in Sri Lanka, addressing oral hygiene among preschool children. Scientific evidence is in need to persuade authorities to establish a programme promoting oral hygiene among preschool children.
Periodontal health of dental clients in a community health setting.	The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence and severity of periodontal disease and possible risk factors in clients attending the Plenty Valley Community Health (PVCH) dental clinic.
Adult Dental Health Survey 2009: common oral health conditions and their impact on the population.	Data from the Adult Dental Survey conducted in 2009/10 have recorded some major changes in the pattern of oral conditions in British adults. The change in the number of sound and untreated teeth in recent decades has been particularly marked in younger adults. Across all ages there were 17.9 sound and untreated teeth per dentate adult, but among the youngest (16-24-year-olds) it was 26.9 teeth indicating rapidly improving prospects for young adults compared with their predecessors. Between 1998 and 2009 the overall prevalence of caries of all types in England has fallen dramatically from 54% to 31% overall, but the number of teeth affected by caries among those people affected by decay is almost unchanged at around 2.7 affected teeth per person. Caries, and the reduction in caries, affected people of all ages. The rate of new restorations is correspondingly low and young adults in particular had fewer restorations than their predecessors. Much activity is now likely to be around repairing or extending existing restorations. By contrast 37% of dentate adults had crowns, up from 34% in 1998, averaging around three crowns per person among those who have crowns. A minority of British adults had a very healthy periodontal status (17%) and moderate periodontal disease (pockets of 4 mm to less than 6 mm) has also reduced markedly in the last decade, in line with measurably less plaque and more frequent brushing. However, more severe disease has increased slightly (from 6% to 9% of adults). The frequency of impact of poor oral health on people's lives has also reduced in the last decade. However, while clinical conditions are improving, there is a proportion of dentate adults that experience negative effects on their daily life frequently (16%) and/or severely (17%) due to their oral health; who are more likely to be those in a lower socioeconomic position and those with worse clinical status in terms of caries and periodontal disease.
Smoking induced heavy metals and periodontitis: findings from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2008-2010.	Exposure to hazardous heavy metals such as cadmium and lead may contribute to increased oxidative stress and inflammation in the periodontal tissue. We aimed to evaluate the association between serum cadmium and lead levels and periodontitis.
Effects of a national economic crisis on dental habits and checkup behaviors - a prospective cohort study.	The effects of economic recessions on dental health behaviors and care utilization are vastly unexamined. Thus, we aimed to ascertain changes in dental health behaviors and checkup frequency from before to after the start of the 2008 Icelandic economic collapse using a nationally representative, prospective cohort - the Health and Wellbeing in Iceland cohort.
Are obesity and overweight associated with gingivitis occurrence in Brazilian schoolchildren?	This cross-sectional study aimed to assess the relationship between weight status and gingival inflammation in Brazilian schoolchildren aged 8- to 12-year old, when controlling for potential confounders.
Frequency of tooth brushing and associated factors in Mexican schoolchildren six to nine years of age.	To determine the prevalence of daily tooth brushing and evaluate some variables associated.
Childhood oral health and SES predictors of caries in 30-year-olds.	To assess whether childhood socio-economic status modifies the relationship between childhood caries and young adult oral health.
A comparison of self assessment of dental status regarding dental anxiety among combat and non-combat soldiers]	The objective of the study was to evaluate the difference in the level of self dental assessment between different groups of soldiers: 115 combats and 115 non-combats. All the solders in this study where male, Jewish, with a service record of 12-48 months, ages 18-22 and born in Israel. The data was summarized, evaluated and tested by x2 - chi square and logistic regressions analysis. In the following parameters no significant differences were found regarding time past from last visit to the dentist, self assessment of dental condition, self assessment of need of dental treatment and the frequency of tooth brushing and sugar consumption. Significant differences were found in the percentage of smokers (59.1% among non-combat vs. 31.9% among combat), and in the dental anxiety level (55.3% among non-combat vs. 38% among combat). The main difference between these two groups is the nature of the social support and society surrounding them, a society that strengthens them and gives the feeling they can deal with fears and difficulties. An additional study should be done in which the soldiers self assessment should be compared to clinical examination. The importance of this study is that the non-combat group should be defined as a high risk population regarding dental anxiety.
Low birth weight, preterm birth or small-for-gestational-age are not associated with dental caries in young Japanese children.	Low birth weight (LBW) continues to increase and is a major public health problem in Japan. In the present cross-sectional study, we examined the associations between LBW, preterm birth and small-for-gestational-age (SGA) and the prevalence of dental caries in young Japanese children.
Health-related quality of life and income-related social mobility in young adults.	To assess the association of income-related social mobility between the age of 13 and 30 years on health-related quality of life among young adults.
