Vertical root fracture in endodontically treated teeth: a review of 25 cases.	We sought to examine the clinical conditions under which 25 endodontically treated teeth underwent vertical root fracture (VRF) and to relate this condition to the time elapsed from endodontic treatment to fracture.
Efficacy of subgingival calculus removal with Er:YAG laser compared to mechanical debridement: an in situ study.	The aim of the present study was to compare the effectiveness of subgingival calculus removal from periodontally involved root surfaces with an Er:YAG laser compared to hand instrumentation in situ.
The management of traumatic dental injuries.	Traumatic injuries require a vast and complex treatment methodology. This manuscript although in a "cookbook" format will still require from the practitioner sound clinical judgment prior to treating a traumatized tooth.
Effect of iterative restoration on the detection of artificially induced vertical radicular fractures by Tuned Aperture Computed Tomography.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of the number of iterative restorations (IR) on the diagnostic accuracy of Tuned Aperture Computed Tomography images (TACT) for detection of induced vertical/oblique root fractures in mandibular teeth.
Root resorption--diagnosis, classification and treatment choices based on stimulation factors.	Etiology of different types of root resorption requires two phases: mechanical or chemical injury to the protective tissues and stimulation by infection or pressure. Injury can be similar in various types of root resorption. The selection of proper treatment is related to the stimulation factors. Intrapulpal infection is the stimulation factor in internal root resorption and external periradicular inflammatory root resorption. Adequate root canal treatment controls intrapulpal bacteria and arrests the resorption process. In cervical root resorption, infection originates from the periodontal sulcus and stimulates the pathological process. As adequate infection control in the sulcus is unlikely, removal of granulation tissue from the resorption lacuna and sealing are necessary for repair. Removal of the stimulation factor, i.e. pressure, is the treatment of choice in root resorption related to pressure during orthodontic treatment, or an impacted tooth or tumor. In ankylotic root resorption, there is no known stimulation factor; thus, no predictable treatment can be suggested. Therefore, various types of root resorptions can be classified according to the stimulation factors: pulpal infection resorption, periodontal infection resorption, orthodontic pressure resorption, impacted tooth or tumor pressure resorption, and ankylotic resorption.
The Periotest in traumatology. Part II. The Periotest as a special test for assessing the periodontal status of teeth in children that have suffered trauma.	The research was carried out on the upper permanent incisor teeth of 101 children aged 8-12 years attending the trauma clinic at the University Dental Hospital, Manchester, UK. The double blind, cross-over study involved Periotest readings being taken by one examiner and traditional special tests being carried out by another examiner. The traditional special tests chosen were mobility testing, percussion sounds and radiographs. The Periotest readings and special tests were then repeated at the child's recall appointment. The results revealed that there was a significant difference (P < 0.001) between the number of abnormalities detected by the Periotest and those detected by the traditional special tests. There was also found to be a significant difference (P < 0.001) in the detection of undesirable sequelae between the Periotest and the traditional special tests.
Prognosis of intentional replantation of vertically fractured roots reconstructed with dentin-bonded resin.	There is no particular treatment established to preserve vertically fractured teeth. We evaluated the long-term prognosis of the intentional replantation of 26 vertically fractured roots after reconstruction with 4-META/MMA-TBB dentin-bonded resin. Replanted teeth were evaluated according to clinical criteria and radiographic examinations for periods ranging from 4 to 76 months. Eighteen cases were functional and retained, with six fully successful; the others needed further observation. Eight cases failed to respond to treatment because of refracture, recurrence of gingival inflammation, or both. Longevity was calculated as 88.5% at 12 months after replantation, 69.2% at 36 months, and 59.3% at 60 months. All failures occurred in premolar and molar teeth. Longitudinal fractures extending more than 2/3 from the cervical portion toward the apex showed significantly shorter longevity compared with fractures within the 2/3 area (log-rank test, p = 0.02). Intentional replantation of vertically fractured roots reconstructed with dentin-bonded resin may be considered for incisors as an alternative to extraction, although the long-term success is not optimal.
The properties of Endocal 10 and its potential impact on the structural integrity of the root.	The purpose of this research was to determine if the use of Endocal 10 (previously called Biocalex 6.9) is associated with root fracture and to assess its sealability. Thirty-six freshly extracted, single canal human mandibular incisors were instrumented and randomly divided into two equal groups (n = 15). Canals in group A were obturated with vertically compacted gutta-percha and Sealapex, and those in group B were filled with Endocal 10 placed with a #25 Lentulo spiral per manufacturer's instructions. Two blinded investigators evaluated the teeth for fractures using transillumination and an operating microscope at 12 x magnification. Three of the fifteen samples filled with Endocal 10 had vertically fractured in half, whereas none of the teeth filled with gutta-percha had any evident fracture lines. The remaining teeth were tested for leakage via a fluid filtration model at 1 wk and 30 days postobturation. No leakage was found among any of the samples whether filled with gutta-percha or with Endocal 10 at either time interval. Statistical analyses were completed using Fisher's exact test (p = 0.023), which showed that there was a significant increase in chance of fracture when using Endocal 10 versus gutta-percha. The results indicate that, although Endocal 10 is able to seal the tooth as well as gutta-percha and sealer, there is a significant potential risk of root fracture.
Preservation of alveolar bone of un-restorable traumatized maxillary incisors for future]	Anterior maxillary implantation is a challenging treatment for both the surgeon and prosthodontist due to high esthetic demands in this area. However, it is the most traumatized and most exposed region to habits. Prompt and appropriate management can significantly improve prognosis of many dentoalveolar injuries, especially in young patients. Unfortunately, many traumatized teeth are overtreated or left untreated, which lead to a much more complicated treatment at the time of permanent restoration at adulthood. The facial cortical plate over the roots of the maxillary teeth is thin and porous. Periapical infections, as well as prolonged and stubborn surgical treatments (repeated root end surgeries) can cause resorption of the labial plate, migrate to a more palatal position, and may later require an augmentation procedure prior to implant placement. The treatment-options of traumatized, anterior maxillary, un-restorable fractured root and ankylosed infraocluded teeth, in relation to preservation of the adjacent alveolar bone for future use of dental implantation will be discussed. The recommended treatment of crown-root fracture of permanent incisor includes removal of the coronal fragment and supragingival restoration of the fractured root. In severe cases in which the fracture line positions deeply under the gingival margin, this treatment may be supplemented by gingivectomy and/or osteotomy, as well as surgical or orthodontic extrusion of the root. In young patients, use of these treatment options as temporary treatment to preserve the facial cortical plate is important. Preservation of alveolar dimension will enable implantation after the completion of growth and development. Dento-alveolar ankylosis accompanied by replacement resorption is a serious complication following severe injury to the periodontal membrane. This complication develops mainly following avulsion and intrusion but also following lateral luxation and root fracture. Replacement resorption develops after severe damage to the periodontal ligament cells that cover the root surface. As a result of this damage, the periodontal ligament is replaced by bone tissue, causing ankylosis between bone and tooth. Following ankylosis, resorption of cementum and root dentin occurs. These processes eventually result in replacement of the entire root by bone. In young children it could arrest the growth of the alveolar process and create an infra-occluded tooth, resulting in a severe bony defect that is difficult to correct. In addition, loss of the maxillary incisor leads to serious esthetic and restorative problems, particularly when the trauma occurs at a young age. Therefore, ankylosed teeth should be treated as soon as diagnosed. Alternative treatments include intentional extraction and immediate replantation of the ankylosed tooth to its socket after embedding the tooth and the socket in Emdogain. This treatment is indicated only when the ankylosis or the replacement resorption is diagnosed at an early stage or has affected only a small area of the root. When the resorption is diagnosed at a later stage, auto transplantation of first lower pre-molar to the anterior region or decoronation of the ankylosed tooth may be considered. Decoronation is a simple and safe surgical procedure for preservation of alveolar bone prior to implant placement. It should be considered as a treatment option for teeth affected by replacement resorption. The alternative treatment of surgical extraction of an ankylosed tooth often leads to considerable bone loss and reduced bone volume in the oro-facial dimension. This may later necessitate an augmentation procedure.
Healing of 400 intra-alveolar root fractures. 2. Effect of treatment factors such as treatment delay, repositioning, splinting type and period and antibiotics.	This is the second part of a retrospective study of 400 root-fractured permanent incisors. In this article, the effect of various treatment procedures is analyzed. Treatment delay, i.e. treatment later than 24 h after injury, did not change the root fracture healing pattern, healing with hard tissue between fragments (HH1), interposition of bone and/or periodontal ligament (PDL) or pulp necrosis (NEC). When initial displacement did not exceed 1 mm, optimal repositioning appeared to significantly enhance both the likelihood of pulpal healing and hard tissue repair (HH1). Significant differences in healing were found among the different splinting techniques. The lowest frequency of healing was found with cap splints and the highest with fiberglass or Kevlar splints. The latter splinting procedure showed almost the same healing result as non-splinting. Comparison between non-splinting and splinting for non-displaced teeth was found to reveal no benefit from splinting. With respect to root fractures with displacement, too few cases were available for analysis. No beneficial effect of splinting periods greater than 4 weeks could be demonstrated. The administration of antibiotics had the paradoxical effect of promoting both HH1 and NEC. No explanation could be found. It was concluded that, optimal repositioning seems to favor healing. Furthermore, the chosen splinting method appears to be related to healing of root fractures, with a preference to pulp healing and healing fusion of fragments to a certain flexibility of the splint and possibly also non-traumatogenic splint application. Splinting for more than 4 weeks was not found to influence the healing pattern. A certain treatment delay (a few days) appears not to result in inferior healing. The role of antibiotics upon fracture healing is questionable.
Calculus removal efficiency and injury potential of vertically oscillating metallic and carbon ultrasonic tips]	This laboratory study investigated the efficiency and aggressiveness of metallic and carbonic inserts of a vertically oscillating ultrasonic device (Vector-system) at different power settings. The following parameters concerning periodontal treatment were assessed under standardized conditions: calculus and tooth substance removal, mean surface roughness and micro morphological appearance of the treated roots. Concerning the calculus removal potential, no significant differences were found between the types of insert used. The carbon fibre inserts, however, showed significantly more tooth substance loss than the metallic inserts. These findings were confirmed by micromorphological SEM analysis. In view of these results, the repeated use of these carbon fiber inserts during periodonatal sustaining therapy cannot be recommended.
Dental injuries in sports.	The expanding arena of sports and vigorous recreational activities is associated with an increased risk for sports-related injuries, including trauma to the teeth. Because dental professionals may not be present on site, in the best interest of athletes, it is suggested that sports medicine professionals who are present be provided with current evaluative, emergent, and referral protocols for proper management of sports-related dental injuries to address the immediate needs of the athlete and to enhance the long-term prognosis of the traumatized tooth. This article provides information related to some of the more common dental injuries encountered in sports, including crown fractures, root fractures, and traumatic tooth displacements. Use of properly fitted, custom-fabricated athletic mouth guards for the prevention of dental injuries is recommended strongly, as is the inclusion of a dentist on the sports medicine team roster.
High resolution charge-coupled device sensor vs. medium resolution photostimulable phosphor plate digital receptors for detection of root fractures in vitro.	The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of a high resolution charge-coupled device (CCD) sensor and a medium resolution photostimulable phosphor (PSP) plate for detecting experimentally induced root fractures and further, to evaluate differences between images taken with various horizontal and vertical angles. Forty-seven extracted single-rooted human teeth mounted in a dry human skull were used in the experiment. The teeth were radiographed, before and after root fractures were induced, with two digital receptors: the Digora PSP system (approx. 8 lp mm(-1)) and the RVG-ui(TM), a CCD sensor with a high-resolution mode (15-20 lp mm(-1)). Four images were taken with each of the receptors of each tooth: one orthogonal exposure (O-images), one exposure with a vertical angle of 15 degrees by which the root was imaged elongated (L-images), and two eccentric exposures with a horizontal angle of 15 degrees mesially and distally. Three observers marked a fracture line if detected, in each image. Three sessions were held, one assessing the O-images, one the L-images, and one in which all four images of the same tooth were displayed simultaneously (X-images). The RVG-ui images obtained higher sensitivities than the Digora PSP images (P <0.05). Sensitivity was statistically significantly higher for the X-images than for both the O-images and the L-images (P <0.05). Based on the observed means, specificities were significantly different neither between the angles, nor between the images from the two digital systems taken with the same angle (P >0.05). It may be speculated that the difference in spatial resolution between the two digital systems accounts for the differences in their sensitivity.
Horizontal root fractures. Treatment and repair.	When root-fractured teeth are treated adequately with repositioning, stabilization, and occlusal adjustment the prognosis for healing is favorable. The common sequelae of root canal obliteration and transitory resorption are usually of little clinical concern. The sequelae of pulpal necrosis usually can be treated successfully by endodontic therapy or surgery. Even with the loss of the fractured crown the root often can be restored with the assistance of the modern techniques of extrusion or periodontal surgery. The prognosis for tooth survival following a horizontal root fracture can be summarized as quite good.
Orthodontic extrusion of an extensively broken down anterior tooth: a clinical report.	A predictable esthetic restoration is not limited to the restored teeth; it has to include the gingival unit and its interface with the teeth involved. Failure to deliver restorations that maintain gingival health jeopardizes the success of any restorative procedure and creates potential for periodontal problems. Perforations, fractures, root resorption, or caries in the cervical area of the tooth, especially in the anterior part of the mouth, present many challenges to the clinician. Failure to place the crown margins on sound tooth material may violate the biologic width and should be considered a restorative failure. Orthodontic root extrusion or forced eruption is a well-documented clinical method for altering the relation between a nonrestorable tooth and its attachment apparatus, elevating sound tooth material from within the alveolar socket. It has some advantages over surgical crown lengthening, which is less conservative considering the sacrifice of supporting bone and the negative change in the length of the clinical crowns of both the tooth and its neighbors. This article presents a case of a maxillary right lateral incisor, extensively broken down following trauma, treated with orthodontic extrusion combined with gingival fiberotomy, without a need for a corrective surgical procedure.
Preferential attachment of human gingival fibroblasts to the resin ionomer Geristore.	The resin ionomer Geristore has been used extensively for root perforation repairs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate oral in vitro biocompatibility of the resin ionomer Geristore compared to two other dental perforation repair materials, Ketac-Fil and Immediate Restorative Material (IRM). Growth and morphology of human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs) was determined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of HGFs cells grown on test materials as well as cytotoxicity assays using eluates from test materials. SEM analysis showed that HGFs attached and spread well over Geristore with relatively normal morphology. SEM showed that fibroblasts did not attach and spread well over Ketac-Fil or IRM as cells appeared much fewer with rounded and different morphology than fibroblasts grown on Geristore. Cytotoxicity assays indicated that HGFs proliferated in the presence of Geristore eluates and not in the presence of Ketac-Fil or IRM eluates. In vitro interpretation indicates that Geristore is less cytotoxic to gingival fibroblasts.
MTA repair of a supracrestal perforation: a case report.	Root perforations are undesired complications of endodontic treatment. In the recent literature, MTA has been regarded as an ideal material for perforation repair. This article describes a case report where an iatrogenic supracrestal perforation was repaired successfully with mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA).
Complications associated with fractured file removal using an ultrasonic technique.	A technique utilizing modified Gates Glidden burs and ultrasonics has recently been advocated to remove fractured instruments from root canals. Varying extents of tooth structure are removed during this procedure, potentially leading to complications. This study evaluated the in vitro and in vivo complications associated with fractured file removal. Fractured instrument fragments were removed from three different levels (coronal, middle, or apical third) of mesiolingual canals of extracted human mandibular molars. The success rate, frequency of perforations, and root strength were recorded for each group. Perforations and unsuccessful file removal occurred only with fragments lodged in the apical third. Fracture resistance declined significantly with more apically located file fragments. A review of 60 clinical cases showed similar rates of successful file removal and rate of perforations. Removal of a fractured file fragment from the apical third of curved canals should not be routinely attempted.
Vertical fractures: apropos of 2 clinical cases]	The aim of the study is to present a clinical review of the vertical root fractures. Two clinical cases are presented to demonstrates the criteria for obtaining a correct diagnosis of vertical root fractures.
Hybrid layer seals the cementum/4-META/MMA-TBB resin interface.	Although 4-META/MMA-TBB resin has adhesive properties to dentin, and has been clinically used for the bonding treatment of vertically fractured roots and apicoectomy, there has not been any investigation on the adhesion of 4-META/MMA-TBB resin to cementum. The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the bonding and the sealing ability of 4-META/MMA-TBB resin to cementum. Bovine root cementum and dentin surfaces were treated with a citric acid and ferric chloride solution, and the 4-META/MMA-TBB resin was applied on the treated surfaces before testing. The microtensile bond strength and the leakage levels obtained for the cementum were almost equal to those for the dentin. In SEM and TEM observations, a hybrid layer approximately 2-3 microm in thickness was observed at the interface between the resin and the cementum. It is concluded that 4-META/MMA-TBB resin adhered to cementum via a hybrid layer on cementum, as previously reported for dentin.
Accuracy of three different electronic apex locators in detecting simulated horizontal and vertical root fractures.	The aim of this in vitro study was to evaluate the accuracy of three electronic apex locators (EALs): Root ZX, Foramatron D10 and Apex NRG, in the detection of fractures in teeth having simulated horizontal and vertical root fractures. A total of 90 extracted intact, straight, single-rooted teeth were divided into six groups of 15 teeth each. In Groups A, B and C, an incomplete horizontal fracture was simulated by preparing a horizontal incision in the coronal, middle or apical portion of the root until the circumferential half of the canal was exposed in the horizontal plane respectively. In Groups D, E and F, an incomplete vertical root fracture was simulated by preparing a vertical straight incision to expose the canal in the coronal, middle or apical portion of the root all the way in the longitudinal plane respectively. The simulated fractures were 0.25 mm in thickness in all groups. The teeth were embedded in 1% agar and the canals were irrigated with saline solution during electronic measurement. Detection of the simulated root fractures was established with a size 10 K-file when the meter value reached 'APEX' on each EAL. In Groups A, B and C, Kruskal-Wallis tests revealed that there were no statistically significant differences between the three EALs. However, statistically significant differences were found among the EALs in Groups D, E and F (P < 0.0001, one-way anova and Tukey's post-hoc test). In conclusion, the three EALs tested were accurate and acceptable clinical tools in the detection of horizontal root fractures. However, the three EALs were unreliable in detecting the position of vertical root fractures.
Horizontal root fractures: a case report.	This case report describes the treatment of an upper right central incisor with an intra-alveolar horizontal root fracture at the level of the middle third and an upper left central incisor with the horizontal root fracture in the cervical third. The root fractures were reduced and rigidly splinted for 4 months. The endodontic therapy was instituted in the upper left central incisor because there was no possibility of fracture repair due to the proximity of the fracture and the gingival sulcus. As soon as the diagnosis of pulp necrosis was established in the upper left lateral incisor, the endodontic treatment was performed. After 3 years and 9 months check-up appointments showed healing in the middle root third of the upper right central incisor and it responded within normal limits to pulp testing. Thus, there is no need for endodontic therapy on this tooth.
Root fracture of immature permanent incisors--a case report.	This 7-year-old girl experienced pain in her upper central incisors following a fall to the ground. Radiographic examination revealed immature upper central incisors with mid-root oblique and horizontal root fractures. Splinting was performed. When at 3 months, an electric pulp test was positive for both injured teeth, and after 5 months, the fracture lines had disappeared on the radiographs, the splint removed. After 2 years, clinical examination showed normal tooth color and position, with a positive response to the pulp test. Radiographs demonstrated continuous root development, although root canal narrowing was noted at the healed fracture sites.
Vertical root fractures in endodontically treated teeth--Part II: Etiology and prevention]	The etiologic factors for vertical fractures in endodontically treated teeth are predisposing factors, such as loss of tooth material, anatomy of the susceptible teeth, moisture loss, previous dentinal cracks, and loss of bone support; and iatrogenic factors, such as excessive removal of radicular dentin as a result of endodontic and prosthetic procedures and improper selection of dowels. Identification of susceptible teeth and roots, proper selection and cementation of dowels, and avoidance of excessive force during condensation of gutta percha and in removal of tooth structure during endodontic and prosthetic procedures, are all measures that can be taken to prevent root fractures.
Guidelines for the management of traumatic dental injuries. I. Fractures and luxations of permanent teeth.	Crown fractures and luxations occur most frequently of all dental injuries. An appropriate treatment plan after an injury is important for a good prognosis. Guidelines are useful for delivering the best care possible in an efficient manner. The International Association of Dental Traumatology (IADT) has developed a consensus statement after a review of the dental literature and group discussions. Experienced researchers and clinicians from various specialties were included in the group. In cases where the data did not appear conclusive, recommendations were based on the consensus opinion of the IADT board members. The guidelines represent the current best evidence, based on literature research and professional opinion. In this first article of three, the IADT Guidelines for management of fractures and luxations of permanent teeth will be presented.
Developmental disturbance of maxillary lateral incisor after trauma.	Traumatic injury to a primary tooth has a potential to damage the underlying permanent tooth germ. It may lead to developmental disturbance of permanent dentition. The impaction of the permanent maxillary central incisor because of the root dilaceration in children is rare. The purpose of this paper is to report a developmental disturbance of a permanent right maxillary lateral incisor in a 12-year-old girl with a history of trauma at an early age.
Clinical indications for digital imaging in dento-alveolar trauma. Part 1: traumatic injuries.	Traumatized teeth present a clinical challenge with regard to their diagnosis, treatment plan, and prognosis. Recent developments in imaging systems have enabled clinicians to visualize structural changes effectively. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and cone beam computed tomography are among the most commonly used systems for dental and maxillofacial surgery. The purpose of this review is to describe the advantages and disadvantages of each technique and the clinical application for dento-alveolar trauma. Three clinical cases are described to illustrate the potential use of the NewTom 3G for diagnosis and treatment plan of dento-alveolar traumatic injuries.
Spontaneously healed horizontal root fracture in maxillary first premolar: report of a case.	Root fractures of the posterior teeth are rare and occur as a result of severe trauma. This study describes the horizontal root fracture of a maxillary first premolar. The fractured roots were discovered during a routine radiographic examination. The tooth was asymptomatic and responded positively to electric pulp testing. The patient reported accidental trauma, which occurred 14 years before. Our case is an example of spontaneously healed fractured roots. The interesting findings were that the healing was observed even in the presence of two roots, including preservation of the vitality of the pulp.
Progress of research on fiber posts]	In the last few decades, casting metal has been the most commonly used post-core systems. But the elastic modulus of metal posts is higher than that of the dentin. Root fractures often happen because of the higher elastic modulus. The fiber posts can reduce or avoid root fractures because their elastic modulus is similar to that of the dentin. Therefore, they are widely used clinically to preserve tooth tissues and restore them after failure. This review article aims to introduce the recent research of the fiber posts.
Fracture resistance of roots with thin walls restored using an intermediate resin composite layer placed between the dentine and a cast metal post.	Thin-walled roots restored using conventional cast metal post-cores are at risk of fracture. Placing a thick intermediate layer of resin-based composite (RBC), sandwiched between the root dentine and a small-diameter metal post or dowel, may improve the fracture resistance of such roots. In this initial laboratory study, two similar groups each of six decoronated maxillary central incisor teeth were prepared with approximately 1.0 mm thick tapered root canal walls. Cast metal alloy post-cores and metal-ceramic crowns were fabricated and cemented for one group with, and for the other control group without, a thick intermediate layer of RBC. The mean force (N) to fracture the roots was 639.3 (SD 51.6) for the intermediate layer of RBC group and 360.8 (42.9) for the control group, P < 0.0001. These significantly different findings require clinical confirmation.
Root agenesis in developing canines as a complication of intranasal antrostomy.	A case is reported in which the roots of both maxillary canines failed to develop, a defect that could be traced to antral surgery when the patient was 8 years of age. The differential diagnosis of such a finding is proffered. The maxillary antrum is described, and aspects of the surgical procedure, the nasal antrostomy, used in this patient are discussed. A brief outline of current thought on the mechanisms of eruption of teeth is appropriate, and treatment of the symptomatic tooth is mentioned.
Influence of clinical baseline findings on the survival of 2 post systems: a randomized clinical trial.	The aim of this prospective randomized controlled trial was to evaluate the influence of clinical baseline characteristics on the survival of 2 post systems.
A new coping for overdentures. Part 2: Preliminary results of a clinical study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate a new type of coping used for overdentures. Twenty-nine patients received 60 new chairside copings prepared by 3 operators. The copings, used to anchor removable prostheses, were followed up for between 6 months and 4 years with inspection, probing, and radiographic evaluation. Five teeth (8.3%) were extracted. A few clinical problems occurred, including decementation, periodontal pathology (loss of support and bleeding on probing), subgingival decay, and root fracture. No differences were noted in the incidence of complications among the 3 operators. The study demonstrated the clinical predictability of the new copings.
Case report: teeth and tonsils: the use of culture and sensitivity testing for antibiotic prescribing in dental infection.	This case report highlights the usefulness of bacterial culture and sensitivity testing in the prescribing of antibiotics for dental infections, demonstrated by the management of a 10-year-old child with a non-vital upper central incisor and, reportedly, associated recurrent tonsillitis.
Repair of furcal perforation with mineral trioxide aggregate: long-term follow-up of 2 cases.	Previous studies have demonstrated the efficacy of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) in repair of furcal perforation. In this article, the use of MTA in treating 2 cases of furcal perforation (accidental and caries-related) and subsequent long-term follow-up are described.
Failing four-unit maxillary fixed partial denture: part 2.	In this two-part treatment planning series, the case of a 54-year-old woman with a failing four-unit fixed partial denture (FPD) is presented. Part 1 presented pretreatment strategies, occlusal and periodontal status, and the advantages and disadvantages of three treatment options: removable partial denture, tooth-supported FPD, and implant-supported FPD. In this follow-up article, the treatment selected for the case is revealed, and the rationale--including indications and contraindications for the different treatment options--is discussed. The treatment sequence is then outlined, and the final outcome is presented.
An unusual vertical root fracture.	A case of an unusual fracture in the mesial root of a lower first molar tooth is described. The possible causes of vertical root fractures are discussed.
Vertical fracture of root filled teeth restored with posts: the effects of patient age and dentine thickness.	To determine whether patient age contributed to the fracture resistance of teeth subjected to root canal treatment and post placement.
Complications using intermaxillary fixation screws.	The most important part of facial bone fracture treatment is immobilization. Bandaging of the fractured mandible was the first immobilization device used in ancient Greece. Since then, various methods with different shapes and uses were introduced in the treatment of maxillofacial trauma patients. Intermaxillary fixation (IMF) with bone screws was first used in 1981. This technique has advantages, including quickness, ease of use, less trauma, and reduced risk of needle-stick injury. We analyze the advantages and disadvantages of this technique.
Treatment of severe localized periodontal destruction associated with a cemental tear: a case report and review of the literature.	Cemental tears have been described as a fragment of cementum becoming detached from the root surface, which can lead to severe periodontal breakdown. A 50-year-old woman with no history of periodontal attachment loss had an asymptomatic, isolated deep pocket on the mesial aspect of tooth No. 14. The radiographic examination revealed a thin, chip-like radiopacity along the lateral aspect of tooth No. 14. Periodontal flap surgery revealed a cemental tear on the apical part of the tooth. The root fragment was removed and the intrabony lesion was treated with enamel matrix derivative. A clinical examination one year after surgery demonstrated resolution of the pocket. Radiographic examination revealed an apparent bone fill at the bottom and the mesial wall of the original defect. This case illustrates that severe attachment loss associated with a cemental tear can be treated successfully by removing the cemental fragment and applying enamel matrix derivative.
Horizontal root fracture with displacement in the primary dentition.	Root fractures in the primary dentition are uncommon and little information is available concerning adequate treatment and prognosis. The most recently published guidelines recommend more invasive approaches but also discuss the need for further studies. This article examines how a horizontal root fracture in the primary dentition of a 3-year-old girl was treated by reducing the coronal fragment, followed by semi-rigid containment for 21 days. Radiographs taken one year after the initial trauma confirmed the success of this alternative approach.
Cemental tear: clinical characteristics and its predisposing factors.	Cemental tears often show characteristics mimicking a periapical or periodontal lesion. This leads to difficulty in the early diagnosis of cemental tears.
Effects of Gates-Glidden, LA Axxess and orifice shaper burs on the cervical dentin thickness and root canal area of mandibular molars.	This study evaluated the increase of the instrumented area and dentin thickness in the mesial and distal aspects of mesial canals of mandibular molars after the use of Gates Glidden (GG), LA Axxess (LA) and Orifice Shaper (OS) instruments. A total of 53 canals from 27 mandibular molars were embedded in resin and divided into 3 groups. The roots were sectioned 3 mm below the cementoenamel junction and the images were captured before and after instrumentation. The increase of the instrumented area in terms of percentages and the remaining dentin thickness, in mm, at the mesial and furcal aspects were calculated using the Image tools software. Data were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis and Dunn's test. The significance level was set at 5%. All instruments promoted cervical flaring with different amounts of dentin removal at the mesial and distal aspects of the root canals. Statistically significant difference (p<0.05) was found between LA and all other instruments after using the first instrument. Regarding dentin thickness, no significant difference (p>0.05) was found between the mesial and distal walls in all groups. It may be concluded that LA 35.06 and GG 3 burs produced the thinnest dentin walls, and thus their use in mesial canals of mandibular molars should be done with caution.
Influence of a parafunctional oral habit on root fracture development after trauma to an immature tooth.	Root fractures in immature teeth are rare because the resilience of the alveolar bone is more favorable to the occurrence of luxation. This article reports a case of traumatic injury in an immature permanent tooth that progressed to root fracture, having a parafunctional oral habit as the possible modifying factor of case evolution. A 12-year-old boy presented for treatment complaining of a defective restoration and mild pain on the maxillary right central incisor. The patient had a history of crown fracture in this tooth due to trauma 2 years before. The clinical examination showed healthy gingival tissues and no abnormal tooth mobility, whereas radiographic projections revealed healthy periradicular tissues, incomplete root formation, and no visible root fracture. As pulp necrosis was diagnosed, calcium hydroxide therapy was started for canal disinfection and subsequent obturation. However, after 4 weeks of treatment, a horizontal fracture line was observed radiographically in the root's middle third. The patient denied a new traumatic injury, but revealed the habit of chewing on a pencil. Refraining from the deleterious oral habit was strongly advised, and root canal filling with mineral trioxide aggregate was performed to treat the root fracture. After 4 years of follow-up, the tooth has normal function and no abnormal mobility. Images suggestive of remodeling at the apical end of the coronal segment and replacement resorption of the apical segment are seen radiographically. This case demonstrates the need of following cases of dental trauma and the possible influence of parafunctional oral habits as modifying factors of case progression.
Detection of vertical root fractures by using cone-beam computed tomography: a clinical study.	Vertical root fractures of teeth (VRFs) often pose a diagnostic dilemma because of the difficulty in detection of these in intraoral radiographs except in certain cases with very distinct clinical findings. This often leads to unwarranted extraction of the tooth. Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) produces three-dimensional images and allows precise visualization and evaluation of VRFs or cracks in extracted teeth, as reported previously. This clinical pilot study was designed to determine the diagnostic accuracy of noninvasive CBCT for detection of suspected VRFs in endodontically treated teeth by using exploratory surgery to confirm the presence or absence of a fracture.
The status of mineral trioxide aggregate in endodontics education in dental schools in Turkey.	The aim of this study was to assess the current status of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) as an educational material in dental schools in Turkey. A survey was sent to senior members of the endodontic departments of seventeen dental schools; fourteen responded. All respondents reported that they used MTA in their clinical practice, with apexification, perforations, retrograde fillings, and root resorptions being the most frequently occurring treatment procedures. All reported that information was given to students regarding MTA mainly as part of the curriculum. The third and fourth years were the periods when MTA was introduced to students in most of the schools. Twelve schools reported that students had the opportunity to observe procedures in which MTA was used, but students had the chance to use the material in a very minor proportion of the schools, mainly under the supervision of clinical instructors. Ten schools agreed that MTA should be included in the regular endodontic curriculum. Financial constraints seemed to be the predominant reason for those who answered this question negatively, followed by difficult handling properties and low radiopacity of the material. Within the limitations of this study, it can be concluded that ways should be sought to prevent financial difficulties from depriving dental students of the opportunity to receive information about contemporary methodologies such as MTA utilization.
A randomized controlled trial of endodontically treated and restored premolars.	This in vivo study examined the contribution of remaining coronal dentin and placement of a prefabricated (LP) or customized fiber post (ES) to the six-year survival of endodontically treated premolars. A sample of 345 patients provided 6 groups of 60 premolars each in need of endodontic treatment. Groups were classified according to the number of remaining coronal walls before abutment build-up. Within each group, teeth were allocated to one of three subgroups: (A) no post retention; (B) LP; or (C) ES (N = 20). All teeth were protected with a crown. Cox regression analysis revealed that fiber post retention significantly improved tooth survival (p < 0.001). Failure risk was lower in teeth restored with prefabricated (p = 0.001) than with customized posts (p = 0.009). Teeth with one (p = 0.004), two (p < 0.001), and three coronal walls (p < 0.001) had significantly lower failure risks than those without ferrule. Similar failure risks existed for teeth without coronal walls, regardless of the presence/absence of ferrule (p = 0.151). Regardless of the restorative procedure, the preservation of at least one coronal wall significantly reduced failure risk (ClinicalTrials.gov number CT01532947).
Treatment of a perforating inflammatory external root resorption with mineral trioxide aggregate and histologic examination after extraction.	Inflammatory external root resorption (IERR) requires damage or loss of the protective layer and an inflammatory process in the unprotected root surface. Infection of the pulp space can occur after a serious injury and stimulate an inflammatory response. When the inflammatory stimulus is long-standing, the destructive phase will continue until the stimulation is removed.
Dehydration-induced shrinkage of dentin as a potential cause of vertical root fractures.	Vertical root fractures (VRF) of endodontically treated teeth constitute a severe clinical condition frequently requiring removal of the affected tooth. Numerous attempts have been made to find the cause for VRF without reaching definitive conclusions. As changes in moisture content have been reported to appear as a consequence of root canal therapy, it is the goal of this paper to evaluate associated volume changes as a possible cause for VRF. Considering disk shaped horizontal cross sections of endodontically treated teeth with a moisture content of dentin decreasing from the root surface towards the root canal, both relative circumferential and relative radial stresses resulting from volume changes of dentin were calculated. It could be shown that the presence of a root canal itself increases radial and circumferential stresses acting on root dentin by a factor of two. Reduction in moisture content of dentin at the wall of the root canal results in shrinkage of the tooth structure and tensile stress. On the outer surface of the root, compressive stresses occur. Thus, VRF would start at the canal wall and propagate to the root surface. The theory presented appears to be consistent with previous reports on stress development as a consequence of dehydration of dentin and finite element analysis on root fractures. It may be concluded that dehydration of dentin induces cracks at the walls of a root canal which subsequently grow as a result of cyclic loading or traumatic overload.
The usefulness of three-dimensional imaging for prognostication in cases of intentional tooth replantation.	This paper describes the utility of three-dimensional (3D) images obtained with cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) for prediction of successful clinical outcome in two cases of intentional tooth replantation (IR). IR was performed for teeth affected by vertical root fracture and root perforation with local application of blood clot and oxy-tetracycline antibiotic. High-resolution 3D images demonstrated no evidence of ankylosis, but did reveal the presence of alveolar bone regeneration, suggesting a good long-term prognosis. Our observations in these cases suggested that local application of the above two materials might help to induce the regeneration of lost periodontal tissues in IR.
Applying extrusive orthodontic force without compromising the obturated canal space.	Complicated tooth fractures can be the unfortunate result of orofacial trauma and can offer a therapeutic challenge for the dentist. A conservative solution for gaining supragingival sound tooth structure often includes orthodontic forced eruption. Usually, this procedure is carried out by applying extrusive force after placing a provisional acrylic Richmond crown on the tooth. However, this long-lasting dental treatment may jeopardize the coronal seal of the root canal space, leading to microleakage and endodontic failure.
Autotransplantation combined with orthodontic treatment to restore an adult's posttraumatic dentition.	This case report describes the successful treatment of an adult with a skeletal Class II Division 2 posttraumatic dentition with consequential restorations. The extracted maxillary premolar was autotransplanted to replace the hopeless mandibular first molar. The endodontically treated maxillary right canine was extracted instead of the premolar. A multidisciplinary approach including autotransplantation and orthodontic treatment provided a satisfactory outcome. 
Fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth restored with glass fiber reinforced posts and cast gold post and cores cemented with three cements.	Dental fractures can occur in endodontically treated teeth restored with glass fiber reinforced posts and cast gold posts.
Endodontic retreatment of dens invaginatus presenting with gutta-percha overfilling at the attached gingiva and chronic apical periodontitis: unusual clinical report.	This work describes the retreatment of an unusual case of dens invaginatus with gutta-percha overfilling at the gingival mucosa and chronic apical periodontitis in a 34-year-old woman. Initial periapical radiograph showed the presence of type II dens invaginatus with poor quality obturation, root perforation and chronic apical periodontitis of tooth 22.
Treatment of traumatic dental injuries: evaluation of knowledge among Italian dentists.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the degree of knowledge in the management of different scenarios of dental trauma in a population of Italian dentists.
In-vitro mechanics of intrusive loading in porcine cheek teeth with intact and perforated root apices.	Cyclic intrusive loads were applied to deciduous cheek teeth and monitored by radiography in dissected mandibles in three successive states: (A) intact, (B) vertically bisected in a bucco-lingual plane, (C) with perforation of the apices by lateral drilling of the mandible subsequent to (B). Loading was in a compression cage in an Instron mechanical testing-machine utilizing cross-head speeds of 0.5 and 5 mm/min, leading to loading rates of approximately 2 and approximately 20 N/s. Peak loads were approximately 100 N, causing an intrusion of approximately 200 microns. Load/recovery curves for each tooth in the three states were recorded and the data treated assuming: (a) a simple shear on the periodontal ligament, (b) tensile loading on the fibres of the collagen fraction of the ligament alone. Treatment (b) gave the best agreement with published mechanical data on isolated mammalian periodontal ligament. The small effect of apicectomy on the mechanical behaviour indicates that a mobile fluid-like support mechanism is unlikely to operate for major loads in vitro and tensile support by the collagen fibres of the periodontal ligament is the most likely dominant mechanism.
The restoration of teeth with subgingival fractures]	The authors review the history of forced advancing of teeth and describe 10 patients with 10 upper teeth (3 lateral and 6 central canines and 1 first molar) with root fractures near the alveolar osseous crest which were treated by orthodontic forced advancing of the roots. For this purpose an orthodontic device consisting of an arch, provisional pin with a hook, and elastic traction were used. The rate of tooth advancing and time of adjacent periodontium rehabilitation were measured. The treatment was effective in all the cases, this recommending it for wide dental practice.
An in vitro comparison of incomplete root fractures associated with three obturation techniques.	This study compared the incidence of incomplete root fractures among five groups of mandibular incisors (20/group). The groups were: (a) no canal preparation, (b) canal preparation, (c) canal preparation and obturation with laterally condensed gutta-percha, (d) canal preparation and obturation with thermoplasticized gutta-percha on a central carrier (Thermafil), and (e) canal preparation and obturation with thermoplasticized injectable gutta-percha (Ultrafil). Following experimental manipulation, all teeth were stained, transversely sectioned, and evaluated for the presence of root fracture. No complete root fractures were noted. The lowest incidence of stained incomplete fracture was found in the no canal preparation group. The canal preparation, lateral condensation, Ultrafil, and Thermafil groups had more incomplete fractures than the no canal preparation group. The incidence of stained fracture in the three obturation groups was not significantly different from the incidence in the group which had only canal preparation.
A combined endodontic retrofill and periodontal guided tissue regeneration technique for the repair of molar endodontic furcation perforations: report of a case.	This is a report of a case in which the techniques of endodontic retrofill and guided tissue regeneration were used together to treat a perforation of the mesiofacial root of a maxillary left first molar (a strip perforation). After full-thickness flap reflection, the root received a retrograde filling and a large fenestration defect was surgically created to allow access to the furcal (distal) surface of the mesiofacial root. The roots were treated with tetracycline, the defect was filled with freeze-dried, demineralized, irradiated human cadaver bone, and the access fenestration was covered with a piece of barrier membrane. Healing was uneventful and the defect showed 100% bone fill at the time of reentry to retrieve the membrane 7 months after the initial surgery. Fifteen months after surgery the area appears clinically and radiographically healthy and the tooth has been employed as an abutment for a fixed partial denture.
An experimental technique to repair cracked teeth using calcium phosphate, melted by a laser beam: an in vitro evaluation.	Using a neodymium: yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser beam to seal vertical root fracture lines with tricalcium phosphate paste represents an alternative treatment for cracked teeth with noted clinical results. This article describes a study of the permeability of molten crystals of hydroxyapatite in the dentin of a cracked root after crack lines have been filled with a preparation of tricalcium phosphate melted by a neodymium: yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser beam. The morphology of the sealed cracks was analyzed under a scanning electron microscope that showed a deep fusion of tricalcium phosphate along crack lines.
Intermittent loading of teeth restored using prefabricated carbon fiber posts.	This in vivo study evaluated the fracture resistance of bovine teeth with prefabricated carbon fiber posts. Fourteen bovine teeth having similar lengths and dimensions were mounted in an acrylic resin block having a simulated periodontal ligament. The post space was prepared using two calibrated drills that provided an 8.5-mm post length. The prefabricated carbon fiber post was luted with a resin luting agent, and the core was made using the system's autopolymerizing resin core material. A crown was luted to each prepared tooth. Each test specimen was intermittently loaded (250 N) at an angulation of 45 degrees to the long axis of the tooth at a frequency of 2 loads per second. Four of the roots had an incomplete longitudinal fracture after loading. The results of this study were compared to a previous study by the authors that had been conducted under similar conditions with prefabricated parallel-sided posts (Para-Post) and tapered, individually cast posts. The failure rates of the two types of posts from the previous study were significantly higher (Logrank test; P<.02) than those of the carbon fiber posts.
Fracture resistance of endodontically treated roots after restoration.	This study evaluated the shear strength resistance of endodontically treated roots that were restored by two different techniques. Twenty-seven recently extracted single-rooted teeth with similar anatomic characteristics were sectioned to obtain the same length for all specimens. Group I (GI) consisted of 14 roots restored with cast post-core (nickel-chromium alloy) and cemented using zinc phosphate cement; group II (GII) consisted of 13 roots restored with steel prefabricated posts (FKG) cemented with zinc phosphate cement and rotated with caution for anchorage. The crown portion of this group was made using a hybrid composite resin (Prisma APH). Results showed that on all specimens of GI the fracture occurred in the cervical root structure while in GII the composite resin fractured in all specimens. Statistical analysis showed a significantly higher resistance to fracture for GI than GII. The specimens were sectioned longitudinally for stereoscopic microscope analysis (63x) and did not show fracture lines in the dentin anchorage post area for any of the specimens.
Initial treatment of traumatic dental injuries by dental practitioners.	The aim of this study was to investigate the nature of initial treatment provided by dental practitioners to children aged 1-17 years with various types of traumatic dental injuries at public dental clinics in Tanzania. Questionnaires on initial treatment were mailed to 188 practitioners and returned by 138 (73%). The reported treatments were analyzed in relation to the dental practitioners' qualifications and area of practice. Extraction of injured teeth was frequently reported for 64% of the injuries and prescription of antibiotics was reported by 67%, 48% and 46% of the practitioners for soft tissue injuries, concussion, and alveolar fracture respectively. Practitioners working at the Faculty of Dentistry were less involved in treating dental trauma than those at urban and rural clinics (P = 0.001), while no significant association was found with the level of education of the practitioners. Equal proportions of practitioners, about one-third each, reported correct, unnecessary and wrong treatment options. The quality of the treatments provided could not be explained by background variables. It can be concluded that dental practitioners in Tanzania provide a lot of over-treatment for traumatic dental injuries. Therefore, it is suggested that efforts should be made to improve and standardize treatment methods in Tanzania.
Photoelastic comparison of stress induced by using stainless-steel versus nickel-titanium spreaders in vitro.	The vertical force applied to an endodontic spreader generates stress along the canal walls. Recognizing the potential for this stress may reduce the incidence of vertical root fractures. A photoelastic acrylic model was fabricated to exhibit the stress produced during obturation of curved canals using the lateral condensation technique. Twenty standardized models simulating curved canals (32 degrees) were formed within PL-2 photoelastic acrylic resin blocks. The canals were fitted with a gutta-percha point, and either a stainless-steel or nickel-titanium finger spreader was inserted. An Instron 4502 universal testing machine applied a vertical force of 20 Newtons to the spreader. Quarter wave and polarizing filters were used with backlighting to generate the fringe patterns in the models. Photographs of the resulting stress lines showed that the stainless-steel spreaders created three areas of concentrated stress. The nickel-titanium spreaders induced stress patterns spread out along the surface of the canals, thus reducing the concentration of stress and the potential for vertical root fracture.
Evaluation of setting properties and retention characteristics of mineral trioxide aggregate when used as a furcation perforation repair material.	Furcation perforations were created in 32 extracted maxillary and mandibular molars. The perforations were prepared in the center of the pulp chamber floor parallel to the long axis of each tooth and a saline-moistened Gelfoam matrix was placed below the perforation to simulate a clinical condition. The teeth were randomly divided into four groups, and the perforations were all repaired with mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) and then covered with either a wet or dry cotton pellet for 24 or 72 h. Instron testing was used to measure the force required to displace the material from the perforation. The force measurements showed that MTA resisted displacement at 72 h to a significantly greater level than at 24 h (p < 0.05). When slight displacement occurred at 24 h the material demonstrated the ability to re-establish resistance to dislodgement from the dentin wall. The presence of some moisture in the perforation during placement was advantageous in aiding adaptation of MTA to the walls of the perforation, but there was no significant difference in MTA retention when a wet or dry cotton pellet was placed in the pulp chamber during the setting time (p > 0.05).
Use of a hydroxylapatite-based material and calcium sulfate as artificial floors to repair furcal perforations.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate a hydroxylapatite-based material and calcium sulfate when each was used under a resin-modified glass ionomer cement to repair furcation perforations.
Sealing ability of composite resin placed over calcium hydroxide and calcium sulphate plugs in the repair of furcation perforations in mandibular molars: a study in vitro.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate in vitro the sealing ability of various materials in the repair of furcation perforations in mandibular molars by measuring coronal microleakage with Indian ink. Ninety extracted mandibular molars were embedded individually into a plaster of Paris block, with the roots surrounded by a simulated periodontal ligament of silicone. Subsequently, a standard coronal access opening was prepared, the root canal orifices were located and a perforation was made with a size 012 round bur in a water-cooled high-speed handpiece directly into the centre of the floor of the pulp chamber. The perforations were repaired with amalgam, composite resin, calcium sulphate under composite resin and calcium hydroxide under composite resin. The teeth were coated with two layers of nail polish, leaving the access opening area uncovered, and immersed in Indian ink for 4 days at 37 degrees C. The teeth were sectioned longitudinally and dye penetration measured from the coronal level of the repair material to the apical end of the perforation. All experimental groups revealed dye penetration in varying degrees, but there was no significant difference amongst them (Kruskal-Wallis test P < 0.05). Calcium sulphate and calcium hydroxide prevented overextrusion of composite resin when used under this repair material.
Vertical root fractures in adjacent maxillary premolars: an endodontic-prosthetic perplexity.	Vertical root fractures in endodontically treated teeth occur frequently in teeth or roots in which their mesiodistal dimension is narrow, such as the maxillary upper premolars. Two cases of vertical root fractures in two adjacent maxillary reconstructed teeth are presented. As in many cases of vertical root fractures, the primary diagnosis was of endodontic treatment failure. The final diagnosis of the fractures was made either by the radiograph showing separation of root segments in one case, or by surgical exploration in the other. In both cases, tooth extraction was unavoidable.
