Management of sensitive dentin.	No panacea presently exists for dentinal sensitivity. Careful, systematic diagnosis and selection of treatment based on diagnostic findings provide a solution to most cases. Often in fact, cases require no treatment because spontaneous closure of dentinal tubules usually provides relief within several weeks. Simple dentinal sensitivity responds immediately to tubule closure induced by application of oxalates, creation of a smear layer, application of adhesives, and other local methods. Patients with sensitivity who do not respond may have pulpitis, a cracked tooth, or defective restorations involving the tooth that is believed to be sensitive or an unsuspected tooth that may be responding to stimuli. Pain referred from the source to another area is not uncommon. Long-term or chronic simple dentinal sensitivity may result from repeated acidic erosion, especially from dietary acids.
Erosive effect of a sport drink mixture with and without addition of fluoride and magnesium on the molar teeth of rats.	A sport drink mixture (pH 3.2), either as such or supplemented with 15 ppm F or 38.5 ppm Mg or both, was given to Osborne-Mendel rats as the only liquid for 42 days. The erosion was scored on the lingual surfaces of the first mandibular molar teeth. Sport drink caused marked erosion, but in the groups where fluoride, alone or with magnesium, was added to the drink, the erosion damages were less severe. Magnesium alone had no clear effect on erosion. Dental plaque, induced by a powdered diet containing 15% sucrose, seemed to modify the erosion process by covering a part of the enamel and thus protecting these areas from the direct effect of acidic drink.
An unusual case of black teeth.	Loss of enamel and a deep black stain of the teeth in a 40-year-old diabetic patient are strongly suggested to be caused by the daily consumption of a cheap white wine and, possibly, by the chewing of cayenne. The wine proved to be rather acid, thereby promoting abrasion as a result of gnashing, and to contain a high concentration of tannin. The exact role of the tannins is described.
Aetiological, predisposing and environmental factors in dentine hypersensitivity.	If the hydrodynamic theory of stimulus transmission across dentine is valid, sensitive dentine has tubules open at the surface and patent to the pulp. Direct and indirect evidence supports this supposition. Factors that result in dentine exposure remove the covering enamel or periodontal tissues (gingival recession). Epidemiological and clinical data for the distribution of exposed cervical dentine indicate that chronic trauma from physical and chemical factors is the most significant aetiological factor. Brushing with a toothpaste may not open dentinal tubules. It is more likely that toothpaste ingredients, when brushed on dentine, would create a smear layer. Exposure of tubules by erosion is probably the major initiator of sensitivity. An increase in our understanding of the aetiological factors involved in dentine hypersensitivity is essential if a sound approach to its management is to evolve. Such information could emanate from epidemiological studies, clinical investigations and laboratory experiments.
