The molecular population genetics of the Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) genome.	RNA viruses are characterized by high genetic variability resulting in rapid adaptation to new or resistant hosts. Research for plant RNA virus genetic structure and its variability has been relatively scarce compared to abundant research done for human and animal RNA viruses. Here, we utilized a molecular population genetic framework to characterize the evolution of a highly pathogenic plant RNA virus [Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), Tospovirus, Bunyaviridae]. Data from genes encoding five viral proteins were used for phylogenetic analysis, and for estimation of population parameters, subpopulation differentiation, recombination, divergence between Tospovirus species, and selective constraints on the TSWV genome. Our analysis has defined the geographical structure of TSWV, attributed possibly to founder effects. Also, we identify positive selection favouring divergence between Tospovirus species. At the species level, purifying selection has acted to preserve protein function, although certain amino acids appear to be under positive selection. This analysis provides demonstration of population structuring and species-wide population expansions in a multisegmented plant RNA virus, using sequence-based molecular population genetic analyses. It also identifies specific amino acid sites subject to selection within Bunyaviridae and estimates the level of genetic heterogeneity of a highly pathogenic plant RNA virus. The study of the variability of TSWV populations lays the foundation in the development of strategies for the control of other viral diseases in floral crops.
Molecular and biological comparison of two Tomato yellow ring virus (TYRV) isolates: challenging the Tospovirus species concept.	Two strains of Tomato yellow ring virus (TYRV, genus Tospovirus), one from tomato (referred to as TYRV-t) and the other from soybean and potato (denoted TYRV-s), collected from different geographical regions in Iran, were compared. Their genomic S RNA segments differed in size by 55 nucleotides. Comparison of the S RNA intergenic regions revealed the absence of a stretch of 115 nucleotides within the S RNA segment of TYRV-s and, conversely, of 56 nts in that of TYRV-t, apparently a stable genetic difference as it was also found in another isolate of TYRV-s collected from potato. Sequence comparison of the N protein ORFs revealed an identity of 92% between the N proteins of both strains, and the observed strong cross-reaction of TYRV-s in DAS-ELISA with a polyclonal antiserum directed against the TYRV-t N protein confirmed this high identity. Host range analysis revealed several differences, e.g. TYRV-s, but not TYRV-t, being able to systemically infect Nicotiana species, and TYRV-s being localised in tomato. The observed molecular and biological differences of both viruses call into question the currently used criteria for Tospovirus species demarcation.
A distinct tospovirus causing necrotic streak on Alstroemeria sp. in Colombia.	A tospovirus causing necrotic streaks on leaves was isolated from Alstroemeria sp. in Colombia. Infected samples reacted positively with tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) antiserum during preliminary serological tests. Further analysis revealed a close serological relationship to tomato chlorotic spot virus (TCSV) and groundnut ringspot virus (GRSV). A major part of the S-RNA segment, encompassing the nucleocapsid (N) protein gene, the 5' untranslated region and a part of the intergenic region 3' of the N gene, was cloned and sequenced. The deduced N protein sequence showed highest amino acid identity (82%) to that of TCSV, indicating that the virus represents a new tospovirus species, for which the name Alstroemeria necrotic streak virus (ANSV) is coined. Phylogenetic analysis based on the N protein sequence revealed that this Alstroemeria-infecting tospovirus clustered with tospoviruses from the American continent. Frankliniella occidentalis was identified as potential vector species for ANSV.
Tomato necrotic ringspot virus, a new tospovirus isolated in Thailand.	A new tospovirus isolated from naturally infected tomato plants grown in Nakhon Pathom province (Thailand) was characterized. Infected plants showed symptoms consisting of necrotic spots, necrotic ringspots and stem necrosis. This virus was detected using general antibodies that could recognize watermelon silver mottle virus (WSMoV), capsicum chlorosis virus (CaCV) and melon yellow spot virus (MYSV). However, it did not react with specific monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to WSMoV and CaCV or a specific MAb to MYSV. The complete nucleotide sequences of S and M RNAs of the virus were determined. They were 3,023 and 4,716 nucleotides in length, respectively, and contained two ORFs in an ambisense arrangement. Sequence analysis indicated that amino acid sequence of the N protein shared 58.2%, 56.0% and 51.8% identity with those of CaCV, WSMoV and MYSV, respectively. The virus was experimentally transmitted by Thrips palmi and Ceratothripoides claratris. Based on our results, we conclude that this tospovirus isolate should be considered a member of a new species. The name tomato necrotic ringspot virus (TNRV) is proposed for this tospovirus.
Detection, discrimination and absolute quantitation of Tomato spotted wilt virus isolates using real time RT-PCR with TaqMan(®)MGB probes.	A quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) procedure using a general primer set and three TaqMan(®)MGB probes was developed for general and genotype-specific detection and quantitation of the genomic M segment of Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV). Standard curves using RNA transcripts homologous to the three probes allowed reproducible quantitative assays with a wide dynamic range (10(3)-10(10) TSWV M segment RNA copies/ng of total RNA) and high sensitivity. This protocol was assayed with a battery of TSWV isolates, covering the range of the present known genetic variation, in single and/or mix infections in three plant hosts, as well as in the thrips vector Frankliniella occidentalis. This quantitative detection assay will be a valuable tool for molecular biology and epidemiology studies, diagnosis and disease control.
Development of a multiplex RT-PCR-ELISA to identify four distinct species of tospovirus.	In this study, a multiplex RT-PCR-ELISA was developed to detect and differentiate four tospovirus species found in Thailand, namely Capsicum chlorosis virus (CaCV), Melon yellow spot virus (MYSV), Tomato necrotic ringspot virus (TNRV), and Watermelon silver mottle virus (WSMoV). In this system, nucleocapsid (N) gene fragments of four tospoviruses were simultaneously amplified and labeled with digoxigenin (DIG) in a single RT-PCR reaction using a pair of degenerate primers binding to the same conserved regions in all four tospovirus N genes. The DIG-labeled amplicons were distinguished into species by four parallel hybridizations to species-specific biotinylated probes in streptavidin-coated microtiter wells followed by ELISA detection using a peroxidase-conjugated anti-DIG antibody. Results indicated that the multiplex RT-PCR-ELISA assay could specifically identify each of these four tospoviruses without cross-reactivity between species or reactivity to healthy plant negative controls. Assay sensitivity was 10- to 1000-fold higher than conventional RT-PCR. When applied to naturally infected plants, all samples yielded concordant results between RT-PCR-ELISA and the reference RT-PCR. In conclusion, the multiplex RT-PCR-ELISA developed in this study has superior specificity, sensitivity, and high-throughput capacity compared to conventional RT-PCR and is an attractive alternative for the identification of different tospovirus species. 
