Expression of c-Fos, Fos B, Jun B, and Zif268 transcription factor proteins in rat barrel cortex following apomorphine-evoked whisking behavior.	Apomorphine-evoked expression of transcription factor proteins: c-Fos, Fos B, Jun B, and Zif268 (also named Krox-24, NGFI-A, Egr-1), was investigated in rat somatosensory (barrel) cortex. The effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 on their expression was also analyzed. Apomorphine is a dopamine receptor agonist, eliciting motor activity, including enhanced whisking leading to the activation of vibrissae representation in the barrel cortex. Rats had their whiskers clipped on one side of the snout. The Zif268 levels were markedly reduced by this procedure alone. In contrast, apomorphine (5.0 mg/kg) evoked marked c-Fos elevation, less pronounced changes in Jun B and Zif268 and no change in Fos B. The greatest apomorphine-evoked c-Fos accumulation was observed in layers IV and V/VI of non-deprived barrel cortex and was not significantly influenced by MK-801 injection at 0.1 mg/kg. A higher dose of MK-801 (1.0 mg/kg) produced abnormalities in locomotor behavior and diminished c-Fos levels on the non-deprived side to the ones observed in the sensory stimulus-deprived cortex. We conclude that the response of the somatosensory cortex is selective with respect to both the gene activated and its cortical layer localization. Furthermore, sensory stimulation provides a major but not the only component to apomorphine-evoked barrel cortex gene activation.
Pharmacological modulation of perceptual learning and associated cortical reorganization.	The pharmacological basis of perceptual learning and associated cortical reorganizations remains elusive. We induced perceptual learning by Hebbian coactivation of the skin of the tip of the right index finger in humans. Under placebo, tactile two-point discrimination was improved on the coactivated but not on the left index finger. This augmentation was blocked by an N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor blocker, but doubled by amphetamine. No drug effects were found on the left index finger. The individual amount of cortical reorganization as assessed by mapping of somatosensory evoked potentials was linearly correlated with the pharmacological modulation of discrimination thresholds, implying that perceptual learning and associated cortical changes are controlled by basic mechanisms known to mediate and modulate synaptic plasticity.
Injection of nerve growth factor into human masseter muscle evokes long-lasting mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia.	Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophic protein with a pivotal role in development and maintenance of the nervous system on one side and inflammatory and neuropathic pain states on the other. NGF causes clear signs of behavioral hyperalgesia in animal models and following intradermal and systemic administration in humans. The present double-blinded, placebo-controlled study was designed to test quantitatively the effect and duration (1h, 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days) of NGF (5 microg in 0.2 ml) injected into the masseter muscle. Pressure pain thresholds (PPT) and pressure tolerance thresholds (PTOL) were used as indices of mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia in the jaw-closing muscles. In addition, perceived pain intensity was assessed by the subjects on a 0-10 numerical rating scale (NRS) with the jaw at rest and in relation to various oral functions (chewing, yawning, talking, swallowing, drinking and smiling). Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to test for significant effects. Injection of NGF into the masseter muscle was associated with significantly reduced PPT for 7 days (ANOVA: P<0.001) and PTOL for 1 day (P<0.001). Buffered isotonic saline injections into the masseter muscle also significantly lowered the PPT after 1 day but to a significantly smaller extent than the NGF injections (P<0.001) and isotonic saline had no significant effects on PTOL. In contrast, assessment of PPT and PTOL in the non-injected temporalis muscles demonstrated a significant increase after 14-28 days (P<0.001), which may have reflected an adaptation to the test procedure. NRS scores of chewing and yawning were significantly increased for 7 days following NGF injection (P<0.001). Systemic adverse effects were noted in one subject who reported fever and slight discomfort about 8h after the NGF injection. In conclusion, this is the first study to show that injection of NGF into the human masseter muscle causes local signs of mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia that persist for at least 7 days as well as pain during strenuous jaw movement. The present pain model is safe and may be used to gain further insight into the neurobiological mechanisms of muscle pain and sensitization.
Kappa opioid mediation of fetal responses to milk.	A series of experiments provided evidence for the existence of a functional opioid system in the fetal rat near term. Application of a tactile probe to the perioral region of the fetus consistently evoked a stereotypic facial wiping response. Administration of low dosages of morphine to the fetus had little effect on nonevoked motor activity but reduced fetal responsiveness to cutaneous stimulation. Milk infused into the mouth of the fetus reduced fetal responsiveness to the tactile probe. Milk's effect on cutaneous responsiveness was reversed by injection of the nonspecific opioid antagonist naloxone. The effect of milk on fetal responsiveness to cutaneous stimulation was reversed by the kappa opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine, but not by the mu antagonist beta-funaltrexamine. Milk engages the endogenous opioid system of the fetal rat and affects fetal responsiveness by interacting with the kappa receptors of the opioid system.
Intraoral tactile sensitivity in adults with diabetes.	The intraoral tactile sensitivity (ITS) of diabetic and nondiabetic subjects was compared. The effects of age, ethnicity, sex, and intraoral site were considered.
D-1 and D-2 receptor mediation of sensorimotor behavior in rats depleted of dopamine during development.	The effects of selective D-1 and D-2 antagonists on sensorimotor behavior were studied in rats treated with 6-OHDA or its vehicle solution on either postnatal day 3, 20, or 35. Blockade of either D-1 or D-2 receptors induced akinesia and somatosensory neglect in adults treated with vehicle at any of the three ages. The behavioral effects of antagonists on rats with 6-OHDA-induced dopamine depletions varied as a function of the age at the time of damage. Adults depleted of DA on Day 35 exhibited behavioral deficits after either D-1 or D-2 blockade and at doses that were ineffective in controls. Adults depleted of DA on Day 20 exhibited deficits after either D-1 or D-2 blockade but were not any more sensitive than were controls. In contrast, adults depleted of DA on Day 3 were insensitive to the behavioral effects of D-1 or D-2 blockers but were impaired after the dual administration of both antagonists. Moreover, simultaneous administration of subthreshold doses of D-1 and D-2 antagonists produced behavioral deficits in controls and rats depleted on Day 3. These data demonstrate that activity within residual DA neurons remains critical for the expression of sensorimotor behavior in rats depleted of DA during development. However, the specific contribution of D-1 and D-2 receptors to these behaviors depends upon the animals' age at the time of depletion.
Sumatriptan (5-HT1B/1D-agonist) causes a transient allodynia.	Unpleasant sensory symptoms are commonly reported in association with the use of 5-HT1B/1D-agonists, i.e. triptans. In particular, pain/pressure symptoms from the chest and neck have restricted the use of triptans in the acute treatment of migraine. The cause of these triptan induced side-effects is still unidentified. We have now tested the hypothesis that sumatriptan influences the perception of tactile and thermal stimuli in humans in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Two groups were tested; one consisted of 12 (mean age 41.2 years, 10 women) subjects with migraine and a history of cutaneous allodynia in association with sumatriptan treatment. Twelve healthy subjects (mean age 38.7 years, 10 women) without migraine served as control group. During pain- and medication-free intervals tactile directional sensibility, perception of dynamic touch (brush) and thermal sensory and pain thresholds were studied on the dorsal side of the left hand. Measurements were performed before, 20, and 40 min after injection of 6 mg sumatriptan or saline. Twenty minutes after injection, sumatriptan caused a significant placebo-subtracted increase in brush-evoked feeling of unpleasantness in both groups (P < 0.01), an increase in brush-evoked pain in migraineurs only (P = 0.021), a reduction of heat pain threshold in all participants pooled (P = 0.031), and a reduction of cold pain threshold in controls only (P = 0.013). At 40 min after injection, no differences remained significant. There were no changes in ratings of brush intensity, tactile directional sensibility or cold or warm sensation thresholds. Thus, sumatriptan may cause a short-lasting allodynia in response to light dynamic touch and a reduction of heat and cold pain thresholds. This could explain at least some of the temporary sensory side-effects of triptans and warrants consideration in the interpretation of studies on migraine-induced allodynia.
Elevated endogenous GABA level correlates with decreased fMRI signals in the rat brain during acute inhibition of GABA transaminase.	Vigabatrin and gabaculine, both highly specific inhibitors of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) transaminase, cause significant elevation of endogenous GABA levels in brain. The time course of GABA concentration after acute GABA transaminase inhibition was measured quantitatively in the alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rat brain using in vivo selective homonuclear polarization transfer spectroscopy. The blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) effect in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been considered to be coupled tightly to neuronal activation via the metabolic demand of associated glutamate transport. Correlated with the rise in endogenous GABA level after vigabatrin or gabaculine treatment, the intensity of BOLD-weighted fMRI signals in rat somatosensory cortex during forepaw stimulation was found to be reduced significantly. These results are consistent with previous findings that inhibition of GABA transaminase leads to augmented GABA release and potentiation of GABAergic inhibition.
Differential effects of neuropathic analgesics on wind-up-like pain and somatosensory function in healthy volunteers.	To investigate the effects of gabapentin, carbamazepine, and amitriptyline on temporal summation, simple nociceptive pain, and innocuous touch sensation in healthy volunteers.
The organizational and activational effects of sex hormones on tactile and thermal hypersensitivity following lumbar nerve root injury in male and female rats.	Considerable evidence exists for sex differences in human pain sensitivity. Women typically report a higher incidence of various painful conditions and report that the conditions are more painful when compared to men. In the present study, we sought to determine whether sex differences in pain sensitivity are observed using a lumbar radiculopathy model of low back pain in the rat and whether removal or alteration of gonadal hormones at specific timepoints can modulate these sex differences. Pubertal and adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were castrated 2 or 6 weeks prior to L5 nerve root injury to determine the activational hormonal effects. In a separate study, neonatal male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were either castrated or injected with testosterone, respectively, on postnatal day one to determine the organizational effects of gonadal hormones on L5 nerve root injury-induced behavioral hypersensitivity. Our results demonstrate that there was a statistically significant sex difference in the magnitude of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia following experimentally induced radiculopathy in the rat: females demonstrated decreased thresholds to tactile and thermal stimuli as compared to males. Furthermore, the enhanced female hypersensitivity was reversed in pubertal and adult animals ovariectomized 6 weeks, but not 2 weeks prior to L5 nerve root injury. Our results demonstrate that the activational effects of gonadal hormones mediate the enhanced female tactile and thermal hypersensitivity following L5 nerve root injury. These results suggest that manipulation of gonadal hormones may be a potential source for novel therapies for chronic pain in women.
Thiamine, pyridoxine, cyanocobalamin and their combination inhibit thermal, but not mechanical hyperalgesia in rats with primary sensory neuron injury.	Neuropathic pain after nerve injury is severe and intractable, and current drugs and nondrug therapies offer substantial pain relief to no more than half of affected patients. The present study investigated the analgesic roles of the B vitamins thiamine (B1), pyridoxine (B6) and cyanocobalamin (B12) in rats with neuropathic pain caused by spinal ganglia compression (CCD) or loose ligation of the sciatic nerve (CCI). Thermal hyperalgesia was determined by a significantly shortened latency of foot withdrawal to radiant heat, and mechanical hyperalgesia was determined by a significantly decreased threshold of foot withdrawal to von Frey filaments stimulation of the plantar surface of hindpaw. Results showed that (1) intraperitoneal injection of B1 (5, 10, 33 and 100 mg/kg), B6 (33 and 100 mg/kg) or B12 (0.5 and 2 mg/kg) significantly reduced thermal hyperalgesia; (2) the combination of B1, B6 and B12 synergistically inhibited thermal hyperalgesia; (3) repetitive administration of vitamin B complex (containing B1/B6/B12 33/33/0.5 mg/kg, for 1 and 2 wk) produced long-term inhibition of thermal hyperalgesia; and (4) B vitamins did not affect mechanical hyperalgesia or normal pain sensation, and exhibited similar effects on CCD and CCI induced-hyperalgesia. The present studies demonstrate effects of B vitamins on pain and hyperalgesia following primary sensory neurons injury, and suggest the possible clinical utility of B vitamins in the treatment of neuropathic painful conditions following injury, inflammation, degeneration or other disorders in the nervous systems in human beings.
Quantitative sensory findings in patients with bortezomib-induced pain.	Bortezomib (PS-341) is a newly developed proteosome inhibitor that shows extremely promising antineoplastic effects against a variety of neoplasias. Neuropathic pain is emerging as a major complication of bortezomib. Although clinical reports have appeared in the literature describing the general symptoms of bortezomib chemoneuropathy, specific quantitative sensory data that detail the sensory deficits that might yield insight to the primary afferent dysfunction contributing to this pain is lacking. In this report, it is shown that patients with bortezomib-induced neuropathic pain have significantly elevated touch detection threshold and slotted peg board time, impaired sharpness detection, and elevated thresholds for the detection of skin warming and heat pain. Patients also had increased reports of cold pain. These data indicate that bortezomib-induced neuropathy is associated with deficits in Abeta, Adelta, and C caliber primary afferent fibers.
Bicuculline-induced alterations in neuronal responses to controlled tactile stimuli in the second somatosensory cortex of the cat: a microiontophoretic study.	Single-neuron activity (n = 29) was recorded from the second somatosensory cortex of cats, and the effect of glutamate, gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA), and bicuculline methiodide (BMI) on spontaneous and stimulus-induced responses were analyzed. Iontophoresis of glutamate produced dose-dependent increases in spontaneous activity, whereas GABA suppressed both spontaneous and glutamate-induced activity. Neuronal responses elicited by cutaneous stimuli were also inhibited by GABA in a dose-dependent fashion; current levels needed to produce at least a 25-50% decrease in stimulus-evoked activity ranged from 5 to 100 nA, with a mean of about 45 nA. Iontophoresis of BMI (10-75 nA) effectively antagonized GABA-induced inhibition of stimulus-evoked responses without altering spontaneous activity. Furthermore, BMI increased the magnitude of responses produced by ramp stimuli and caused a several-fold increase in receptive field size. For neurons responsive to sinusoidal stimulation, BMI caused an increase in the frequency-following probability at preferred frequencies, but failed to alter the response to nonpreferred frequencies. These results suggest that GABA-ergic circuits may limit response magnitude but not the submodality properties of somatosensory cortical neurons.
Electrophysiological study of the peripheral and central neurotoxic effect of cis-platin.	We describe clinical and electrophysiological findings in 8 patients with tumors of germ cell origin before and after treatment with high-dose cisplatin (800-1400 mg) combined with etoposide and bleomycin. All patients developed clinical or electrophysiological signs, or both, of a peripheral sensory neuropathy. One had in addition clinical and electrophysiological signs of CNS involvement, and 2 had a central conduction defect revealed by auditory stimulation.
Bimanual tactual discrimination in aging alcoholics.	Somesthesis and perceptual laterality were studied in normal aging and in aging alcoholic populations. The bimanual (dichhaptic) stimulation technique that was employed required participants to recognize and identify items traced onto the palms of both hands simultaneously, thereby eliciting competition for analysis by the two cerebral hemispheres. Performance of five groups of participants was compared (younger and older alcoholics and age-matched normal controls, and alcoholic Korsakoff patients); within each of the groups, the ability to identify verbal stimuli (letters) was compared with nonverbal stimuli (lines differing in orientation) for the right and the left hands separately. The results suggest that tactile discrimination accuracy for nonverbal information is disrupted by aging, but that alcoholism per se does not have this effect. The combined effects of alcohol abuse and aging were seen only on the tactual tasks that required identification of verbal items. Lateralization measures based upon performance by the two hands separately did not differentiate among the groups.
Atropine stereotypy as a behavioral trap: a movement subsystem and electroencephalographic analysis.	An analysis was made of the movement subsystems involved in the stereotyped behaviors and electroencephalographic (EEG) activity that appear in rats given the anticholinergic drug atropine sulfate (50-75 mg/kg). One form of stereotypy occurred when the drugged faced the closed end of an alleyway. Instead of scanning briefly and then turning around to face the open end, as undrugged rats do, they typically "trapped", i.e., they continued to engage in rapid, repetitive scanning by the snout up and down or side to side along the surfaces of the closed end for long periods of time. Atropine appears to produce an exaggerated snout thigmotaxis. Accordingly, the behavioral pattern can be manipulated simply by changing the configuration of the environment, which alters sensory input to the snout. Therefore, such stereotyped behavior is not a motor automatism but rather a circular chain of reflexive reactions to surfaces which trap the animal. During rapid shifts in direction of movement in undrugged rats, there were often extremely brief periods of hippocampal theta that could be blocked by atropine. The presence of theta during such shifts might be important for normal behavioral sequencing. This could partially account for the fact that atropine-treated rats failed to change from their initial reactions in the alleyway to more adaptive behaviors. When a low roof was placed over the alleway, head scanning was greatly limited, and immobility in a lying posture rapidly became the more frequent behavior. This immobility was accompanied by a sleeplike (synchronized) neocortical EEG pattern rather than the activated (desynchronized) neocortical pattern that occurs during repetitive thigmotactic scanning. It is hypothesized that scanning stereotypy and activated EEG are maintained through movement-concurrent positive feedback.
Covariates of human peripheral nerve function: III. Effects of reported drinking.	A cross-sectional epidemiologic study of the relationship between alcohol consumption and peripheral nerve function was performed using data from a cohort of 4462 male Vietnam-era Army veterans selected independently of either alcohol consumption history or clinical disorders associated with excessive alcohol use. Self-reported alcohol consumption, expressed as current drinking intensity (drinks per month), was the primary measure of alcohol use. The dependent variables were: (a) conduction velocity and amplitude of the median motor, median sensory, ulnar sensory, peroneal motor, and sural sensory nerves; (b) vibrotactile and thermal thresholds of the index finger and great toe. Drinkers who reported consuming < 180 drinks per month had, in general, slightly faster mean nerve conduction velocities, slightly greater evoked response amplitudes, and slightly lower vibrotactile thresholds than did both never drinkers and drinkers reporting consuming more than 179 drinks per month. The heaviest drinking category (> 179 drinks/month) had slightly slower mean conduction velocities and slightly smaller mean amplitudes than all other drinking categories. No consistent associations were observed between thermal thresholds and alcohol consumption. These results suggest that consuming up to 6 drinks per day alone does not cause slowed nerve conduction velocity, diminished amplitude of the evoked response, or elevated sensory thresholds in 35- to 45-year-old men.
Cocaine alters behavior in the rat fetus.	Changes in motor behavior and sensory responsiveness were characterized in rat fetuses on gestational Day 21 after acute administration of various doses of cocaine. An increase in fetal motor activity was evident in the 3 highest doses (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg). Cocaine-exposed Ss showed reduced facial wiping in behavioral bioassays of cutaneous sensitivity (10 and 20 mg/kg) and chemosensory responsiveness (20 mg/kg). Changes in other behavioral measures indicated that fetuses detected and responded to these stimuli, suggesting that reduced facial wiping was due to a disruption of sensorimotor integration or motor coordination. Study of the fetus in vivo can provide insights into the mechanisms of cocaine's deleterious effects on central nervous system and behavioral development.
A comparison of the efficacy and duration of action of topically applied proxymetacaine using a novel ophthalmic delivery system versus eye drops in healthy young volunteers.	A novel ophthalmic drug delivery system (NODS) has been developed to give precise and controlled delivery of a drug to the eye. The drug is incorporated into a polyvinyl alcohol flag attached to a carrier. When applied to the eye the flag detaches and gradually dissolves, releasing the drug. We investigated corneal anaesthesia produced by different concentrations of proxymetacaine NODS, and conventional eye drops. Subjects consisted of 28 normal males (mean age 25.3 (SD 3.9) years). Corneal touch sensitivity was measured with a biomicroscope mounted Cochet-Bonnet aesthesiometer. Each subject attended for two visits separated by 7 days. On each visit each eye randomly received one of four proxymetacaine preparations: 44 micrograms, 74 micrograms, 124 micrograms NODS, or 35 microliters of 0.5% proxymetacaine drops (175 micrograms). Corneal touch sensitivity was measured before, and at 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, and 60 minutes following instillation. Complete anesthesia was achieved in the majority of subjects within 1 minute of instillation. The lowest NODS dose (44 micrograms) produced longer lasting anaesthesia than the 35 microliters drop (175 micrograms) (p < 0.05). Higher NODS doses produced a correspondingly greater increase in the duration of anaesthesia. The greater bioavailability achieved by this vehicle allows much lower drug concentrations to be used, reducing the likelihood of systemic adverse reactions.
Effects of local anesthetics on tactile sensitivity thresholds for cutaneous and mucous membranes.	New, reliable, and precise methods for measuring absolute pressure sensitivity in mucous membranes and on intact skin are described. Studies were conducted to determine how local anesthetics (phenol and sodium phenolate and Benzocaine) affect tactile sensitivity thresholds in the oropharynx and on the intact skin of the volar surface of the forearms, ankles, knees, elbows, and dorsum of the hands. Gargling and expectorating a solution containing phenol had a significantly greater anesthetic effect on the mucous membranes of the oropharynx than spraying and swallowing, which, in turn, had a greater effect than drinking the solution. Compared with ethanol and petroleum jelly (Vaseline), the topical application of Benzocaine (0, .5, 1, 3, and 5% solutions in 100% ethanol) significantly increased the tactile sensory thresholds on the volar surface of the forearm. A highly significant loss of tactual sensitivity of the oropharynx was demonstrated in smokers.
Cutaneous responsiveness of lumbar spinal dorsal horn neurons is reduced by general anesthesia, an effect dependent in part on GABAA mechanisms.	Extracellular activity was recorded from single spinal dorsal horn neurons in both chronic cat and acute rat models. This was done to define the effects of anesthesia on the processing of sensory information elicited by nonnoxious tactile stimulation of peripheral receptive fields (RFs). In the chronic cat model, baseline data were obtained in physiologically intact, awake, drug-free animals before anesthetic administration (halothane 1.0-2.0%). This made it possible to compare and contrast activity of each cell in the drug-free and anesthetized state. Halothane effects were confirmed in the acute rat model (anesthetized, spinally transected, and in some cases decerebrate). In addition, the gamma-aminobutyic acid-A (GABAA)-receptor antagonist picrotoxin (2 mg/kg) was administered intravenously to verify that the observed halothane effect on spinal dorsal horn neurons was mediated by an interaction with GABAA-receptor systems. Halothane effects on three separate measures of response to nonnoxious tactile stimuli were observed in the chronic cat model. Halothane produced a significant, dose-dependent reduction in the low-threshold RF area of the neurons studied. Halothane also caused a significant reduction in neuronal response to RF brushing (dynamic stimulus) and to maintained contact with the RF (static stimulus). A dose dependency was not observed with these latter two effects. Neurons with a predominant rapidly adapting response seemed to be less susceptible to halothane suppression than slowly adapting cells. In the acute rat model an increase in halothane caused a reduction in neuronal response similar to that seen in the cat. The intravenous administration of 2 mg/kg of picrotoxin by itself caused no significant change in RF size or response to brushing. However, the same amount of picrotoxin did cause a 50% reversal of the halothane-induced reduction in RF size without causing a significant change in the halothane effect on response to RF brushing. In contrast to work recently reported in a chronic sheep model, halothane causes a significant reduction in spinal dorsal horn neuronal response to tactile stimulation of peripheral RFs. This effect is caused by, in part, but not exclusively, to GABAA-neurotransmitter systems. However, the relative influence of GABAA systems may vary with the nature of the stimulus.
Low-dose lidocaine suppresses experimentally induced hyperalgesia in humans.	The antinociceptive effects of systemically administered local anesthetics have been shown in various conditions, such as neuralgia, polyneuropathy, fibromyalgia, and postoperative pain. The objective of the study was to identify the peripheral mechanisms of action of low-dose local anesthetics in a model of experimental pain.
