DRE-CALUX bioassay in comparison with HRGC/MS for measurement of toxic equivalence in environmental samples.	CALUX, Chemically Activated LUciferase gene eXpression bioassay, has proven valuable for screening for and assessing toxic equivalents of dioxin-like compounds, because it detects all AhR (arylhydrocarbon receptor) ligands in a variety of sample matrices. In this study, we tried to validate DRE (dioxin-response elements)-CALUX bioassay, which has been developed by cloning mouse cyp1a1 gene in front of luciferase reporter gene. We compared DRE-CALUX bioassay with high resolution gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HRGC/MS) for assessing environmental samples from Korea. 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) dose response study showed high correlation (r2=0.89) between DRE-CALUX bioassay and EROD (ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase) bioassay, a commonly used bioassay method. The mean TEQ value of water samples was 0.57 pg-TEQ(HRGC/MS)/L and 4.97 pg-TEQ(CALUX)/L. For soil samples, HRGC/MS-TEQ values ranged from 0 to 47.18 pg-TEQ/g (dry) and correlated well (r2=0.98) with values obtained by CALUX-TEQ which ranged from 0.92 to 649.97 pg-TEQ/g (dry). The difference between the absolute TEQ values might be due to the presence of dioxin-like compounds without WHO-TEQ values rather than the difference between CALUX-REP and WHO-TEQ. Based on this study, we suggest that DRE-CALUX bioassay can serve as an alternative bioassay method for high-throughput analysis of large number of environmental samples.
Safety and secondary pharmacology: successes, threats, challenges and opportunities.	This review summarises the lecture of Dr Tim Hammond, recipient of the Distinguished Service Award of the Safety Pharmacology Society, given on 20 September 2007 in Edinburgh. The lecture discussed the rationale behind the need for optimal non-clinical Safety and Secondary Pharmacology testing; the evolution of Safety and Secondary Pharmacology over the last decade; its impact on drug discovery and development; the value of adopting an integrated risk assessment approach; the translation of non-clinical findings to humans and finally the future challenges and opportunities facing these disciplines.
A Daphnia magna feeding bioassay as a cost effective and ecological relevant sublethal toxicity test for Environmental Risk Assessment of toxic effluents.	Environmental Risk Assessment of chemical products and effluents within EC countries require the use of cost effective standardized toxicity tests that in most cases are restricted to acute responses to high doses. Thus, subtle ecological effects are underestimated. Here we propose a short-term one day Daphnia magna feeding inhibition test as a cost effective and ecological relevant sublethal bioassay. The sensitivity and reliability of the proposed bioassay was tested in the laboratory against standardized bacteria, algae growth, D. magna and fish acute toxicity test by using 16 chemical mixture x water type combinations that included four different water types fortified with four complex chemical mixtures. Water types included ASTM hard water and three selected effluents diluted 1/10 in water to mimic worse field situations that many overexploited arid river ecosystems suffer during summer months when effluents are discharged into them with little dilution. The results obtained denoted a greater sensitivity of the proposed feeding bioassay in 51 out of 65 tests performed with an average sensitivity 50 fold greater than that of the standardized tests. The greater differences were obtained for mixtures that included narcotic chemicals and the lowest differences for those containing pesticides. Furthermore, feeding responses to the studied contaminant mixtures behaved differently to increasing TOC content than those based on bioluminescent bacteria and algae. Increasing TOC coming from sewage treated effluents decrease toxicity to the latter bioassays but increased those of D. magna feeding bioassays. These results empathize the need to include additional bioassays to monitor more accurately and realistically the toxicity of effluents or surface waters dominated by effluent discharges, a quite common situation in America and Mediterranean arid regions.
Extrapolation, uncertainty factors, and the precautionary principle.	This essay examines the relationship between the precautionary principle and uncertainty factors used by toxicologists to estimate acceptable exposure levels for toxic chemicals from animal experiments. It shows that the adoption of uncertainty factors in the United States in the 1950s can be understood by reference to the precautionary principle, but not by cost-benefit analysis because of a lack of relevant quantitative data at that time. In addition, it argues that uncertainty factors continue to be relevant to efforts to implement the precautionary principle and that the precautionary principle should not be restricted to cases involving unquantifiable hazards.
In vitro-in vivo extrapolation of drug-induced proarrhythmia predictions at the population level.	Drug cardiotoxicity is a serious issue for patients, regulators, pharmaceutical companies and health service payers because they are all affected by its consequences. Despite the wide range of data they generate, existing approaches for cardiac safety testing might not be adequate and sufficiently cost-effective, probably as a result of the complexity of the problem. For this reason, translational tools (based on biophysically detailed, mathematical models) allowing for in vitro-in vivo extrapolation are gaining increasing interest. This current review describes approaches that can be used for cardiac safety assessment at the population level, by accounting for various sources of variability including kinetics of the compound of interest. 
Reducing attrition in drug development: smart loading preclinical safety assessment.	Entry into the crucial preclinical good laboratory practice (GLP) stage of toxicology testing triggers significant R&D investment yet >20% of AstraZeneca's potential new medicines have been stopped for safety reasons in this GLP phase alone. How could we avoid at least some of these costly failures? An analysis of historical toxicities that caused stopping ('stopping toxicities') showed that >50% were attributable to target organ toxicities emerging within 2 weeks of repeat dosing or to acute cardiovascular risks. By frontloading 2-week repeat-dose toxicity studies and a comprehensive assessment of cardiovascular safety, we anticipate a potential 50% reduction in attrition in the GLP phase. This will reduce animal use overall, save significant R&D costs and improve drug pipeline quality. 
