Photodynamic therapy-treated choroidal neovascular membrane secondary to toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis.	To report the result of photodynamic therapy with Visudyne (PDT) on a child with choroidal neovascular membrane (CNV) secondary to toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis.
Toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis and elevated intraocular pressure: a retrospective study.	To report the prevalence of abnormal intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis and to determine risk factors for such abnormality.
Recurrent secondary frosted branch angiitis after toxoplasmosis vasculitis.	To describe a case of recurrent frosted branch angiitis after treatment of ocular toxoplasmosis.
Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis is not associated with ocular toxoplasmosis.	To analyze the association between Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis (FHI) and toxoplasmosis, we performed ocular examinations and used various specific laboratory tests to establish a role for Toxoplasma gondii in the pathogenesis of FHI. Results were compared with those for other types of uveitis and healthy controls. Of the 88 patients with FHI, nine (10.2%) had toxoplasmosislike scars, but an association could not be proved by the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, or by a test for cellular immunity to Toxoplasma antigen. Analysis of aqueous humor samples for Toxoplasma antibodies in patients with FHI also yielded negative results. On the basis of the negative results of these laboratory tests, we concluded that FHI is not associated with ocular toxoplasmosis.
Impact of visual impairment on measures of cognitive function for children with congenital toxoplasmosis: implications for compensatory intervention strategies.	The purpose of this work was to determine whether visual impairment caused by toxoplasmic chorioretinitis is associated with impaired performance of specific tasks on standardized tests of cognitive function. If so, then we worked to determine whether there are patterns in these difficulties that provide a logical basis for development of measures of cognitive function independent of visual impairment and compensatory intervention strategies to facilitate learning for such children.
Rhegmatogenous retinal detachments in patients with AIDS and necrotizing retinal infections.	Rhegmatogenous retinal detachments can occur in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and necrotizing retinal infections. Of 68 patients with AIDS and necrotizing retinal infections seen between 1983 and 1987, rhegmatogenous retinal detachments developed in 16 patients (27 eyes). In this group, cytomegalovirus retinopathy was present in 75% (12 of 16) of patients, 18.8% (3 of 16) had probable herpes simplex virus retinopathy, and 6.2% (1 of 16) had toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis. Retinal detachment was bilateral in 68.8% (11 of 16) of patients. The retina was reattached successfully in 91% (10 of 11) of operated eyes. Proliferative vitreoretinopathy was present preoperatively in 95% of these eyes. Seven of 11 operated eyes had initial improvement in visual acuity. However, 5 of 11 continued to lose vision despite successful reattachment. Techniques included pneumatic reattachment, scleral buckle, vitrectomy, and silicone oil injection. Complicated retinal detachments in AIDS patients with rhegmatogenous retinal detachments and necrotizing retinal infections are common and can be repaired, but the prognosis is guarded in many patients.
The ocular manifestations of congenital infections produced by toxoplasma and cytomegalovirus.	Chorioretinitis is the most common ocular manifestation of congenital toxoplasmosis occurring in both symptomatic and the more freqeunt subclinical form of the disease. Chorioretinitis also occurs in symptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) but not in the subclinical form of this congenital congenital infection. Diagnosis cannot be made from ocular signs alone. Knowledge of the epidemiology of both congenital infections along with information about the postnatal history will assist in the differentiation.
The epidemiologic association of Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis and ocular toxoplasmosis.	Between January 1983 and July 1987, I examined 25 patients at the Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University, who had the anterior segment characteristics of Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis. Of these patients, 16 had fundus lesions suggestive of ocular toxoplasmosis. Of these 16 patients, 13 had a positive serologic test for toxoplasmosis, two patients were not tested, and one patient had a negative test at 1:16. The remaining nine patients with Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis had no fundus lesions suggestive of toxoplasmosis. A chart review of 792 consecutive patients at the Retinal Unit, West Virginia University, during a six-month period disclosed that 24 of 590 patients (4%) had chorioretinal scars suggestive of toxoplasmosis. I concluded from these data that in at least one subgroup of patients with Fuchs' heterochromic iridocyclitis there is a significant association with the chorioretinal scars of toxoplasmosis (P less than .01), and this is suggestive of a causal relationship.
Fuchs's heterochromic cyclitis in congenital ocular toxoplasmosis.	We report a follow-up after 25 years of a patient with a congenital bilateral ocular toxoplasmosis who developed Fuchs's heterochromic cyclitis in her left eye. Whether Toxoplasma gondii can cause the development of Fuchs's heterochromic cyclitis, as our case suggests, or whether the iridocyclitis is a secondary ocular response to other agents, is not yet clear.
Controversies in ocular toxoplasmosis.	Toxoplasmosis, a major cause of infectious uveitis, was elected by the editors of Ocular Immunology and Inflammation as the disease of the year for 2011. The aim of the present review was to report on the results of a survey of leading uveitis experts, in which the authors asked participants to address some of the most important issues related to diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of ocular toxoplasmosis. The survey revealed generally good consensus regarding clinical signs of typical and atypical toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis. In contrast, views regarding diagnostic approach, possible epidemiological influences, transmission of disease, and trigger factors seemed less clearly defined. Responses revealed a large number of drug regimens in use for both congenital and acquired disease. Finally, recurrence prophylaxis was not regularly recommended by the majority of experts.
Retinal pigment epithelial hyperplasia assuming tumor-like proportions. Report of two cases.	Two patients who had highly elevated pigmented masses associated with a chorioretinal scar were observed clinically for several years. The scar was due to presumed histoplasmosis in one patient and toxoplasmosis in the other. Histopathological examination disclosed choroidal and subretinal masses consisting of hyperplastic retinal pigment epithelium. The difficulty in making the diagnosis of RPE hyperplasia in such instances is discussed.
Retinal manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS): cytomegalovirus, candida albicans, cryptococcus, toxoplasmosis and Pneumocystis carinii.	The ocular manifestations of 34 patients with the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), are reviewed. Cytomegalovirus retinitis was seen in 18 patients, cotton wool spots were observed in 11 patients with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia; Fungal retinitis and Toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis were each seen in 2 patients. A review of literature regarding AIDS is included.
Fuchs' heterochromic cyclitis and ocular toxoplasmosis.	Ocular toxoplasmosis and Fuchs' heterochromic cyclitis are well-defined diseases that have completely different clinical courses. We studied 13 patients (seven men and six women, ranging in age from 18 to 73 years) who had Fuchs' heterochromic cyclitis and the focal necrotizing chorioretinal lesions characteristic of ocular toxoplasmosis. The reason for this association is still unknown, as is the pathogenesis of Fuchs' heterochromic cyclitis. None of the patients had ciliary injection or posterior synechiae, but 11 of the 13 (84.6%) had keratic precipitates, anterior chamber reaction, and cataracts. Six patients (38.4%) had iris transillumination, two (15.3%) had glaucoma, and four (30.7%) had lesions in the fellow eyes.
Panophthalmitis and results of HIV tests. Experience at the Cocody University Hospital Center in Abidjan, Ivory Coast]	We assessed the frequency of panophthalmitis in HIV-infected patients.
