The effects of endoparasitism on the immune response to orally administered antigen in cats.	The aim of the study was to assess whether infection with Toxocara cati (T. cati) facilitates the induction of immunoglobulin (Ig) E or other antibody responses to a specific antigen administered with food in kittens. Two groups of 10 cats each, either experimentally infected with T. cati or parasite-free, were dosed with human serum albumin (HSA) added daily to their food from day 7 to 28 inclusive. Levels of HSA-specific IgE, IgG, IgA and IgM were assessed in the serum by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in both groups of cats at weeks 0, 2, 4 and 8. Although weak, an IgE response was detected in most of the cats 1 week after exposure to HSA. However, HSA-specific IgG and IgA could only be detected from the third week after exposure to HSA. The group of parasitized cats had significantly higher levels of HSA-specific antibodies of the IgG and IgA at weeks 4 and 8 (p<0.05 by Mann-Whitney) and IgE isotypes at weeks 2 and 4 (p<0.05 by analysis of variance (ANOVA)) than did the group of parasite-free cats. Specific IgM antibody was not detected in the sera of any of the 20 cats. These findings are supportive of a role of T. cati infection in enhancing the IgE response to orally administered antigens, and hence possibly, in genetically susceptible individuals, in the development of food hypersensitivity.
Toxocara canis: effect of inoculum size on pulmonary pathology and cytokine expression in BALB/c mice.	Infection of mice with Toxocara canis results in pulmonary inflammation and the induction of a Th2 type of immune response. The aim of this study was to determine whether the effect of infection with this nematode depends on the inoculum size. Results indicate that mice infected with either a high or a low inoculum size showed, in a dose-dependent manner, pulmonary inflammation with eosinophil infiltration, increased levels of total IgE, and Toxocara-specific IgG1 that persisted up to 60 days p.i. Relative quantification of cytokine expression in lungs of mice infected with different doses showed proportional increased expression of the IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 transcripts, whereas the expression of the IFN-gamma transcript was not different from that of uninfected controls. These results indicate that infection of BALB/c mice with T. canis results in chronic pulmonary inflammation and a dominant Th2 type of immune response, independent of the inoculum size.
O-methylated glycans from Toxocara are specific targets for antibody binding in human and animal infections.	The parasitic helminth Toxocara canis is a widely distributed nematode of mammals. Larval parasites, which infect a wide range of hosts including mice and humans, export glycosylated macromolecules bearing novel methylated oligosaccharide structures, similar to the mammalian blood group antigen H but bearing one or two O-methylated substitutions on the terminal fucose and subterminal galactose residues. We have studied the reactivity of synthetic forms of these glycans to parasite-specific antibodies and mammalian immune system lectins. Murine antibodies, generated to T. canis infection, predominantly recognise the mono-O-methylated form with the beta-configuration of the GalNAc residue (MoMbeta), and antibodies are entirely IgM isotype. The mAb Tcn-2 reproduces this pattern, and shows little reactivity to either the alpha isomer (MoMalpha) or the di-O-methylated form (DiM). Antibodies generated to helminth infections other than T. canis were unreactive with the glycans, except antibodies to other members of the Toxocara genus. Hence, the carbohydrate structures represent immunogenic, genus-specific antigens. Antibodies from human toxocariasis patients are reactive with the same sugars, although preferentially towards DiM. Sera from unrelated helminth infections do not react, confirming the status of these structures as Toxocara-specific glycans. The human dendritic cell lectin, DC-SIGN, was found to bind both Toxocara excretory/secretory products and mammalian blood group antigen H3. However, DC-SIGN did not bind the synthetic glycans, indicating additional non-methylated carbohydrates may also play a role in the interaction between T. canis and its host.
Larval development of Toxocara canis in dogs.	The parasitic roundworm Toxocara canis is present in dog populations all over the world. Due to its zoonotic potential, this roundworm is of special interest not only for veterinarians, but also for medical practitioners. In the present review, current knowledge of infection routes and the subsequent development of larvae within the canine host is summarised. Furthermore, information about the clinical, pathological, enzymatic, haematological and histopathological changes was collected, giving a broad overview of current knowledge of the infection. Although the data collected over the years give an idea of what happens during the larval development of T. canis, many questions remain open. Nevertheless, it is important that we continue our efforts to further understand the biology of this versatile and compelling parasite and try to improve and optimise strategies to prevent the infection in dogs and thereby to protect humans from this infection.
IgG antibody responses in mice coinfected with Toxocara canis and other helminths or protozoan parasites.	The immune response expressed by IgG antibodies in BALB/c mice experimentally infected with Toxocara canis, was studied with the aim of verifying the possible in vivo cross-reactivity between antigens of T. canis and other parasites (Ascaris suum, Taenia crassiceps, Schistosoma mansoni, Strongyloides venezuelensis and Toxoplasma gondii). Experiments included three groups of mice: one infected only by T. canis, another with one of the other species of parasites and a third concomitantly infected with T. canis and the other species in question. Animals were bled by orbital plexus at 23, 38 and 70 days post infection (p.i.). Sera were analyzed for anti-Toxocara antibodies by ELISA and Immunoblotting, using excretion-secretion antigens (ES), obtained from culture of third-stage larvae of T. canis. For all experiments a control group comprised by ten non-infected mice was used. Only in the case of A. suum infection, in these experimental conditions, the occurrence of cross-reactivity with T. canis was observed. However, in the case of co-infection of T. canis - S. mansoni, T. canis - S. venezuelensis and T. canis - T. crassiceps the production of anti-Toxocara antibodies was found at levels significantly lower than those found in mice infected with T. canis only. Co-infection with S. mansoni or S. venezuelensis showed lower mortality rates compared to what occurred in the animals with single infections. Results obtained in mice infected with T. canis and T. gondii showed significant differences between the mean levels of the optical densities of animals infected with T. canis and concomitantly infected with the protozoan only in the 23rd day p.i.
Toxocara canis: monoclonal antibodies to larval excretory-secretory antigens that bind with genus and species specificity to the cuticular surface of infective larvae.	When maintained in culture, the infective-stage larvae of Toxocara canis produce a group of excretory-secretory antigens. Monoclonal antibodies to these antigens have been produced and partially characterized. Hybridomas were made using spleens from mice that had been given 250 embryonated eggs of T. canis followed by immunization with excretory-secretory antigens. Monoclonal antibodies were first screened against excretory-secretory antigens using an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Those antibodies positive in this assay were then screened against the surfaces of formalin-fixed, infective-stage larvae using an indirect fluorescent antibody assay. The two monoclonal antibodies showing fluorescence were also tested against the surfaces of infective-stage larvae of Toxocara cati, Baylisascaris procyonis, Toxascaris leonina, Ascaris suum, a Porrocaecum sp., and Dirofilaria immitis. One of these two antibodies bound to the surface of T. canis and T. cati while the other bound only to the surface of T. canis; neither were reactive with the other ascaridoid larvae or the larvae of D. immitis. Enzyme-linked immunoelectrotransfer blotting techniques were used to demonstrate that the cross-reactive antibody recognized antigens with molecular weights of about 200 kDa while the more specific monoclonal antibody recognized antigens with approximate molecular weights of 80 kDa. The specificity of these two antibodies for T. canis and T. cati should prove helpful in the development of more specific assays for the diagnosis of visceral and ocular larva migrans.
The consequences of parasitic infection for the behavior of the mammalian host.	As many as one billion people may be infected with animal parasites. The behavioral consequences of such infection, or of illness in general, is poorly understood. This issue is discussed using as an example infection of mice with Toxocara canis, the common roundworm of dogs. Current literature suggests that two-thirds of all dogs have been infected with this parasite, and 7% of all humans have antibodies to T. canis. T. canis completes its life cycle in dogs, but when it infects aberrant mammalian hosts (e.g., humans or mice), larvae migrate through various organ systems including the brain, where they can remain viable and mobile for extended periods of time. Changes in motor activity, sensory reactivity, and learning of mice infected with T. canis have been observed. The pattern of behavioral changes is influenced by the infection regime and exposure to other toxicants such as lead.
The IgA antibody activities in relation to the parasitologic status of Toxocara canis in dogs.	In this study, the relationship between the IgA antibody activities to Toxocara canis infection in dogs and their parasitologic status has been examined. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was applied to the sera of dogs for the detection of the specific IgA antibodies and at the same time, autopsy and stool examination were performed on these dogs. The most elevated IgA antibody levels were observed in the one-month age group of puppies. Thereafter, the levels gradually decreased until six and 10 months of age. These low levels were maintained in adult dogs. However, the IgA antibody activities were not related to the age and the number of worms when the correlation coefficients were calculated. It was suggested from the results obtained that the elevated IgA antibodies at one month of age may have been due to the locally stimulated immunity by the adult worms grown up in the intestines and as a result, could be detected in the circulation.
Preliminary study on the follow-up observations of the antibodies and circulating antigens in canine toxocariasis.	In the sera of dog fetuses and newborn puppies, no antibody to Toxocara canis was found but an elevation of the circulating toxocaral antigens (CTA). In the mother dogs, detectable IgG and IgM antibodies were found. The IgG antibodies gradually increased in the course of this observation. The most elevated levels of IgA antibodies were observed one month after birth. The same was true for the CTA levels. There was no placental transfer of the antibodies nor could they be transferred from the mother dog to the offspring via the colostrum.
Mechanisms of eosinophilia in Toxocara canis infected mice: in vitro production of interleukin 5 by lung cells of both normal and congenitally athymic nude mice.	Mechanisms of eosinophilia were compared between in vitro bone marrow cell cultures of congenitally athymic (nu/nu) mice and their heterozygous littermates (nu/+). Cultures of 5 x 10(4) bone marrow cells using interleukin 3 (IL-3), IL-5 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor showed that nu/nu and nu/+ mice mimicked each other in eosinophil production both before and after infection with Toxocara canis. Eosinophil differentiating activity (EDA) was detected in media conditioned by spleen cells and lungs of T. canis infected nu/+ mice, although nu/nu mice showed EDA only in lung-conditioned medium. EDA, detected both in infected nu/nu and nu/+ mice, was inhibited by an anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody. These results indicate that IL-5 may be produced by lung cells of both nu/nu and nu/+ mice as well as by spleen cells of nu/+ mice infected with T. canis, which is the reason why nu/nu mice infected with T. canis exhibit blood eosinophilia.
Eosinophilia, IgE production, and cytokine production by lung T cells in surface CD4-deficient mutant mice infected with Toxocara canis.	Mutant mice deficient in CD4+ T cells and their normal and heterozygous littermates were infected with Toxocara canis, and compared for eosinophilia, total and Toxocara-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) production, and in vitro cytokine production by lung cells. The numbers of eosinophils in the peripheral blood of normal and heterozygous mice peaked on days 10 and 21, although mutant mice showed eosinophilia with a peak on day 10. This indicates that the first peak on day 10 is CD4 independent and the second peak is CD4 dependent. Before infection, the levels of total IgE had no significant difference among the three groups of mice. Total and Toxocara-specific IgE in all genotypes of mice increased after infection, and was the highest in normal mice and the lowest in mutant mice. In vitro production of interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-4 by total lung cells was the highest in normal mice and the lowest in mutant mice. CD4+ and CD4- CD8- T lymphocytes, but not CD8+ T lymphocytes produced IL-5 and IL-4 when incubated with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb) and lung-adherent cells. These results indicated that IL-5 and IL-4 were produced mainly by CD4+ cells and partly by CD4- CD8- cells, but not by CD8+ cells. In addition, cytokine production by CD4+ cells was affected by the number of CD4 molecules on their surface.
The role of ICAM-1/LFA-1 and VCAM-1/VLA-4 interactions on T helper 2 cytokine production by lung T cells of Toxocara canis-infected mice.	In order to study the effect of costimulatory signals on T helper type 2 (Th2) cytokine production, monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against cell adhesion molecules (CAM) were added to cells in culture obtained from the lungs of Toxocara canis (Tc)-infected mice followed by the determination of interleukin-5 (IL-5) and IL-4 in the supernatants of the culture. ES-stimulated IL-5 production in the supernatant of total lung cells was reduced by 25% when anti-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (anti-ICAM-1) mAb, anti-CD11a mAb, or both anti-ICAM-1 and anti-CD11a mAb together were added to the culture. The addition of anti-CD18 mAb had no effects. Anti-vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (anti-VCAM-1) mAb addition also reduced IL-5 production by 60%, although the addition of anti-very late activation antigen-4 (anti-VLA-4) mAb or both anti-VCAM-1 and anti-VLA-4 mAb together were less effective. In the case of anti-CD3 mAb stimulation, similar effects of mAb to CAM were observed. In contrast, IL-4 production induced by anti-CD3 mAb was reduced more markedly by the addition of either anti-ICAM-1 or anti-CD11a mAb than the combination of anti-VCAM-1 and anti-VLA-4 mAb. Similar effects of mAb to CAM were observed on the production of IL-5 and IL-4 by CD4+ T cells purified using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter. Coincubation with adherent cells was necessary for the significant production of IL-5 and IL-4 by CD4+ T cells. These results suggest that the VCAM-1/VLA-4 interaction is more important for IL-5 production by CD4+ T cells in the lungs of Tc-infected mice, and that the ICAM-1/lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 interaction is more important for the production of IL-4.
