Reactivation of ocular toxoplasmosis during pregnancy.	We wished to assess whether ocular toxoplasmosis can be reactivated during pregnancy in immunocompetent females, and whether such reactivation is confined to the eye or whether the fetus is exposed to the risk of vertical transmission. For this purpose, we retrospectively examined 18 females with ocular toxoplasmosis during the course of 35 pregnancies. Of these 18 patients, seven developed recurrences during seven pregnancies. Due to the potential risk of functional damage to the mother and the possibility of vertical disease transmission to the fetus, we suggest following such cases carefully during pregnancy until the dimensions of the problem are more fully appreciated.
Reactivation of ocular toxoplasmosis after laser in situ keratomileusis]	Laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) is a safe and efficient refractive surgical procedure that provides excellent results in most cases. Several complications have been reported, most of them related to the posterior segment of the eye. Although they are quite rare, a growing number of vitreoretinal pathologic conditions after LASIK have been reported. To date no article has reported an inflammatory or infectious disease of the posterior segment after a LASIK procedure. We report a case of reactivation of toxoplasmic chorioretinitis that occurred 5 days after a LASIK procedure. Clinical outcome was spontaneously favorable after 1 month, with no loss of vision. Although a causal effect between LASIK and toxoplasmic chorioretinitis reactivation cannot be proven with a single case report, we stress the importance of dilated fundus examination in LASIK preoperative assessment: our case suggests that in the presence of preoperative toxoplasmic chorioretinitis scars, increased retinal monitoring is required.
Immunosuppression and eye disease. First Vail lecture.	Several viral, fungal, and protozoal diseases of the eye are significantly associated with immunologic deficiencies. Of the viral agents, cytomegaly and herpes simplex and zoster cause a discrete necrotizing retinopathy that has the characteristics of vascular occlusion. Measles may result in a delayed retinopathy that is predominantly macular and associated with subacute progressive encephalopathy. Of the fungal agents, Candida and Aspergillus are apt to involve the eye, beginning as choroidal lesions with extension forward to involve the pigment epithelium and retina secondarily. Mucor and Cryptococcus are less common. Toxoplasmosis is the one ocular protozoal disease whose incidence is increased by immunosuppression, and, like the viral diseases, is characterized by a discrete necrotizing retinopathy and probably results from activation of dormant organisms in the retina. Autoimmunity undoubtedly plays an important role in eye disease but its ocular pathogenesis is obscure.
