Genome engineering of Toxoplasma gondii using the site-specific recombinase Cre.	Site-specific DNA recombinases from bacteriophage and yeasts have been developed as novel tools for genome engineering both in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The 38kDa Cre protein efficiently produces both inter- and intramolecular recombination between specific 34bp sites called loxP. We report here the in vivo use of Cre recombinase to manipulate the genome of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Cre catalyzes the precise removal of transgenes from T. gondii genome when flanked by two directly repeated loxP sites. The efficiency of excision has been determined using LacZ as reporter and indicates that it can easily be applied to the removal of undesired sequences such as selectable marker genes and to the determination of gene essentiality. We have also shown that the reversibility of the recombination reaction catalyzed by Cre offers the possibility to target site-specific integration of a loxP-containing vector in a chromosomally placed loxP target in the parasite. In mammalian systems, the Cre recombinase can be regulated by hormone and is used for inducible gene targeting. In T. gondii, fusions between Cre recombinase and the hormone-binding domain of steroids are constitutively active, hampering the utilization of this mode of post-translational regulation as inducible gene expression system.
Analysis of apicoplast targeting and transit peptide processing in Toxoplasma gondii by deletional and insertional mutagenesis.	Deletion and insertion mutagenesis was used to analyze the targeting sequence of the nuclear encoded apicoplast protein, the ribosomal protein small subunit 9 of Toxoplasma gondii. Previous studies have shown that nuclear encoded apicoplast proteins possess bipartite leaders having characteristic signal sequences followed by serine/threonine rich transit sequences. Deletion analysis demonstrated that the first 55 amino acids of the rps9 leader were sufficient for apicoplast targeting. Insertional mutagenesis tagging the leader sequence with a hemagglutinin (HA) tag was used to study the events involved in the targeting pathway. Transfectants with insertions near the N-terminus of the transit displayed HA tagged precursors outside of the apicoplast, in the perinuclear region. In contrast, transfectants with the HA tag inserted near the carboxyl end of the transit-like region had apicoplast labeling. Western blot analysis of HA tagged stable isolates suggested that processing of the HA tagged leaders was a multi-step process, with processing occurring both outside of and at or within the apicoplast.
Single tube nested PCR for the detection of Toxoplasma gondii in fetal tissues from naturally aborted ewes.	A single tube nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay targeting the multicopy 18S-5.8S rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS1) region has been developed for the diagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii-induced abortion in ovine fetal tissues. In all, 145 ovine fetal samples including brain, spleen, lung, liver, kidney, placenta and fetal fluids from 53 fetuses and stillborns of 32 farms in Northern Spain were analyzed. Thirty-six samples belonging to nine fetuses and one stillborn lamb were T. gondii PCR-positive. Although T. gondii DNA was amplified from different types of tissues, brain was the tissue with the highest detection rate. All animals that had histopathological lesions associated to T. gondii infection were positive by PCR. In addition, four fetuses whose histological examination was hindered by autolysis were PCR-positive. Results obtained by PCR and indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) showed good correspondence, demonstrating the diagnostic value of the two techniques. However, PCR has the advantage over serology in its ability to diagnose T. gondii infection at earlier stages of gestation when the fetus is not yet immunocompetent and in lambs that have taken colostrum. Once other abortifacient agents are ruled out, PCR detection of the ITS1 region in fetal tissues is a valuable and relatively rapid technique for the diagnosis of ovine abortion caused by T. gondii.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii in the milk of experimentally infected lactating cats.	Tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii have been found in the milk of sheep, goats, cows and mice and infection by ingestion of raw goat milk has been documented in humans. Lactational transmission from infected cats to their kittens is suspected but the organism has not been detected in the milk. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the presence of T. gondii in the milk of experimentally infected cats. Pregnant specific pathogen free cats were inoculated orally with T. gondii at various times prior to parturition. Feces were examined for oocyst shedding after sugar solution centrifugation. Milk was collected for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and bioassay in mice. T. gondii was detected in the milk of five of six cats by either bioassay or PCR.
Serodiagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii infection in cats by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using recombinant SAG1.	The gene encoding surface antigen 1 (SAG1, P30) of Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) was cloned into the plasmid pGEX-4T-3 and subsequently expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli) as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. The recombinant SAG1 (rSAG1) was refolded using 8M urea solution followed by dialysis and thereafter evaluated in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for serological diagnosis of toxoplasmosis. The test sera were adsorbed with GST to block non-specific reactivity to the GST-SAG1 fusion protein. The ELISA with rSAG1 was able to differentiate very clearly between sera from cats or mice experimentally infected with T. gondii and sera from normal cats or mice. The ELISA detected no cross-reactivity with sera from mice experimentally infected with the closely related parasite Neospora caninum (N. caninum). Some 193 cat sera were tested for antibodies to T. gondii, out of which 40 (20.7%) reacted positively by ELISA with the rSAG1 while another 79.3% cats reacted negative to the assay. Both positive and negative sera were confirmed by Western blot analysis. The results of ELISA were in agreement with those of a commercially available latex agglutination test (LAT) kit, although the former had higher titers than the latter.
Toxoplasma gondii myosins B/C: one gene, two tails, two localizations, and a role in parasite division.	In apicomplexan parasites, actin-disrupting drugs and the inhibitor of myosin heavy chain ATPase, 2,3-butanedione monoxime, have been shown to interfere with host cell invasion by inhibiting parasite gliding motility. We report here that the actomyosin system of Toxoplasma gondii also contributes to the process of cell division by ensuring accurate budding of daughter cells. T. gondii myosins B and C are encoded by alternatively spliced mRNAs and differ only in their COOH-terminal tails. MyoB and MyoC showed distinct subcellular localizations and dissimilar solubilities, which were conferred by their tails. MyoC is the first marker selectively concentrated at the anterior and posterior polar rings of the inner membrane complex, structures that play a key role in cell shape integrity during daughter cell biogenesis. When transiently expressed, MyoB, MyoC, as well as the common motor domain lacking the tail did not distribute evenly between daughter cells, suggesting some impairment in proper segregation. Stable overexpression of MyoB caused a significant defect in parasite cell division, leading to the formation of extensive residual bodies, a substantial delay in replication, and loss of acute virulence in mice. Altogether, these observations suggest that MyoB/C products play a role in proper daughter cell budding and separation.
Both lymphotoxin-alpha and TNF are crucial for control of Toxoplasma gondii in the central nervous system.	Immunity to Toxoplasma gondii critically depends on TNFR type I-mediated immune reactions, but the precise role of the individual ligands of TNFR1, TNF and lymphotoxin-alpha (LTalpha), is still unknown. Upon oral infection with T. gondii, TNF(-/-), LTalpha(-/-), and TNF/LTalpha(-/-) mice failed to control intracerebral T. gondii and succumbed to an acute necrotizing Toxoplasma encephalitis, whereas wild-type (WT) mice survived. Intracerebral inducible NO synthase expression and-early after infection-splenic NO levels were reduced. Additionally, peritoneal macrophages produced reduced levels of NO upon infection with T. gondii and had significantly reduced toxoplasmastatic activity in TNF(-/-), LTalpha(-/-), and TNF/LTalpha(-/-) mice as compared with WT animals. Frequencies of parasite-specific IFN-gamma-producing T cells, intracerebral and splenic IFN-gamma production, and T. gondii-specific IgM and IgG titers in LTalpha(-/-) and TNF/LTalpha(-/-) mice were reduced only early after infection. In contrast, intracerebral IL-10 and IL-12p40 mRNA expression and splenic IL-2, IL-4, and IL-12 production were identical in all genotypes. In addition, TNF(-/-), LTalpha(-/-), and TNF/LTalpha(-/-), but not WT, mice succumbed to infection with the highly attenuated ts-4 strain of T. gondii or to a subsequent challenge infection with virulent RH toxoplasms, although they had identical frequencies of IFN-gamma-producing T cells as compared with WT mice. Generation and infection of bone marrow reconstitution chimeras demonstrated an exclusive role of hematogeneously produced TNF and LTalpha for survival of toxoplasmosis. These findings demonstrate the crucial role of both LTalpha and TNF for control of intracerebral toxoplasms.
Induction of protective immunity by DNA vaccination with Toxoplasma gondii HSP70, HSP30 and SAG1 genes.	The vaccination with Toxoplasma gondii heat shock protein 70 (T.g.HSP70) gene (a virulent tachyzoite-specific) induced the most prominent reduction in T. gondii loads in various organs of B6 and BALB/c mice at the acute and chronic phases of toxoplasmosis compared with T.g.HSP30 (a bradyzoite-specific) and SAG1 (a tachyzoite-specific) genes. A single gene gun vaccination with 2 microg of T.g.HSP70 gene induced a significant reduction in the number of T. gondii organisms compared with 50 microg of T.g.HSP70 gene vaccination by intramuscular (i.m.) or intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection. The vaccine effects of T.g.HSP70 gene persisted for more than 3 months.
Molecular cloning of ribosomal P protein in Toxoplasma gondii and the availability to detect antibody against recombinant protein in toxoplasmosis patients.	Among the panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against Toxoplasma gondii, mAb of Tg621 (Tg621) clone blotted 38 kDa protein which localized in the cytoplasm of tachyzoites by immunofluorescence microscopy. The protein was not released into the parasitophorous vacuole during or after invasion. The cDNA fragment encoding the protein was obtained by screening a T. gondii cDNA expression library with Tg621. The full length cDNA sequence was completed with 5'-RACE as 1,592 bp, which contained open reading frame of 942 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence of Tg621 consisted of a polypeptide of 313 amino acids, with significant homology to ribosomal P proteins (RPP) of other organisms especially high to those of apicomplexan species. The expressed and purified TgRPP was assayed in western blot with the sera of toxoplasmosis patients and normal sera, which resulted in the 74.0% of positive reactions in toxoplasmosis patients whereas 8.3% in normal group. Therefore, the antibody formation against TgRPP in toxoplasmosis patients was regarded as specific for T. gondii infection and suggested a potential autoantibody.
Parasite load in guinea pig foetus with real time PCR after maternofoetal transmission of Toxoplasma gondii.	Parasite loads of different tissues were assessed in guinea pig foetus after maternal infection. Twelve female guinea pigs were infected with 100 cysts of the 76 K strain of Toxoplasma gondii by the oral route. Inoculation was performed 20 +/- 5 days (G20) or 40 +/- 5 days (G40) after the beginning of gestation. Gestational age was determined by progesterone assay. Maternal and foetal organ samples were taken 60 days after the beginning of gestation. Parasite loads (from placenta, amniotic fluid (AF), cord blood (CB), foetal brain, liver, lung and spleen) were assessed by a real-time PCR quantification using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) hybridization probes on the Light Cycler. Congenital transmission was proven by the presence of parasites in blood or tissue samples of the foetus in 84.6% (11/13) and 100% (16/16) of cases after inoculation on G20 and G40, respectively. The quantitative analysis of our results after inoculation at G20 and G40 has allowed us to determinate the positive parasitic loads as a function of the origin of the sample and the period of inoculation. The parasite loads expressed as log (parasite/g) were low in AF and CB samples: 1.49 +/- 0.50 and 1.05 +/- 0.10 at G20 and 1.21 +/- 0.36 and 1.20 +/- 0.42 at G40 respectively. In contrast the placenta and the different foetal tissues had higher parasite burdens: 2.89 +/- 0.54 to 5.30 +/- 0.51 at G20 and 2.81 +/- 0.71 to 3.65 +/- 0.59 at G40. All the placentae were positive for parasites even in the two cases with no proven transmission. Real time quantitative PCR using the hybridization probe was a very sensitive and reproducible technique to study the kinetics of congenital toxoplasmosis in the guinea pig model wich is close to that of humans.
Ixodes ricinus as a potential vector of Toxoplasma gondii.	The presence of Toxoplasma gondii DNA was detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test in 2 out of 92 Ixodes ricinus ticks (2.8%) collected in the woodlands of eastern Poland. This suggests that ticks of this species may be involved in the spread of toxoplasmosis under natural conditions.
Toxoplasmosis in rabbits confirmed by strain isolation: a potential risk of infection among agricultural workers.	The presence of anti-Toxoplasma gondii IgG antibodies in a high titer of 1:8,000 was found in 2 out of 9 examined rabbits (22.2%), kept on a farm where cases of human toxoplasmosis were noted. A virulent Toxoplasma gondii strain was isolated in mice from the brain of a seropositive rabbit that showed clinical signs of disease: apathy, weight loss, skin lesions. The presence of T. gondii DNA in the peritoneal exudate of mice inoculated with the brain suspension of the dissected rabbit was confirmed by the positive results of PCR test. No toxoplasmas were found in mice inoculated with suspensions of other organs of the examined rabbit (liver, spleen, kidneys, lungs, heart, skeletal muscles). In the sections of the rabbit's brain the typical cysts of Toxoplasma gondii were found, filled with bradyzoites. On the basis of strain isolation and microscopic findings, toxoplasmosis of the central nervous system was diagnosed in the rabbit. The results of this study suggest that rabbits should be considered as a potential source of Toxoplasma infection among agricultural workers.
Identification of a sporozoite-specific member of the Toxoplasma SAG superfamily via genetic complementation.	Toxoplasma gondii sporozoites possess an array of stage-specific antigens that are localized to the membrane and internal cellular space, as well as secreted into the primary parasitophorous vacuole. Specific labelling of viable sporozoites excysted from oocysts reveals a complex admixture of surface proteins partially shared with tachyzoites. SAG1, SRS3 and SAG3 were detected on sporozoites as well as numerous minor antigens. In contrast, tachyzoite SAG2A and B were completely absent whereas a dominant 25 kDa protein was unique to the sporozoite surface. The sporozoite gene encoding this protein was identified in tachyzoites genetically complemented with a sporozoite cDNA library and cloned via site-specific recombination into a bacterial shuttle vector. The sporozoite cDNA identified in these experiments encoded a protein with conserved structural features of the prototypical T. gondii SAG1 (P30) and shared sequence identity with surface proteins from Sarcocystis spp. This new member of the SAG superfamily was designated SporoSAG. Expression of SporoSAG in tachyzoites conferred enhanced invasion on transgenic parasites suggesting a role for this protein in oocyst/sporozoite transmission to susceptible hosts.
Comparison of two widely used PCR primer systems for detection of toxoplasma in amniotic fluid, blood, and tissues.	The PCR diagnosis of toxoplasmosis suffers from lack of standardization. Interlaboratory comparative studies of PCR methods have been performed, but intralaboratory comparisons are scarce. Here, we optimized and compared the technical performances of two PCR primer systems widely used for Toxoplasma detection. The differences between the two methods were visible only at low parasite concentrations (< or = 1 Toxoplasma genome per reaction tube). Nevertheless, when clinical samples were tested, both methods significantly differed in their technical sensitivities and specificities. Only one method appeared adequate for samples containing blood or tissue.
Usefulness of Toxoplasma gondii-specific recombinant antigens in serodiagnosis of human toxoplasmosis.	Toxoplasma gondii SAG1, GRA1, and GRA7 recombinant antigens may be regarded as tools for the detection of T. gondii immunoglobulin G antibodies in persons with chronic and acute toxoplasmosis. GRA7 is more correlated with acute toxoplasmosis. A combination of these antigens will increase the sensitivity of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.
K24 T. gondii isolate is a hybrid and has the virulence of lineage I isolates.	A permanently high virulence was found in tachyzoites of T. gondii K24 after serial passage in mice (90 passages during 324 days). Virulence tests revealed that a single tachyzoite of the 50th passage represented LD100 for mice. Analysis of genotype of K24 isolate was done by PCR/RFLP with ROP1/Ddel, SAG1/Ddel, 850/Rsal and IGS/Rsal and by RFLP/DNA with TGR1E sequence and Pstl enzyme. K24 isolate had an atypical genotype, with an association of type II (for ROP1, SAG1 genes and TGR1E sequence) and type I (for 850 gene) alleles, and a new pattern observed for IGS. All tested PCR/RFLP did not change through 2, 10, 20, 28, 40, 50, 60, 70, 81 and 90 tested passages. In RFLP/DNA with Pstl enzyme and TGR1E probe, K24 isolate produced a pattern with seven fragments of the size ranging from one to 23 kb and did not change through 7, 56, 70 and 83 tested passages. K24 T. gondii isolate is a hybrid and has the virulence of lineage I isolates.
Trans-genera reconstitution and complementation of an adhesion complex in Toxoplasma gondii.	Eimeria tenella and Toxoplasma gondii are obligate intracellular parasites belonging to the phylum Apicomplexa. In T. gondii, the microneme protein TgMIC2 contains two well-defined adhesive motifs and is thought to be a key participant in the attachment and invasion of host cells. However, several attempts by different laboratories to generate a knockout (KO) of TgMIC2 have failed, implying that TgMIC2 is an essential gene. As Eimeria and Toxoplasma utilize the same mechanisms of invasion and have highly conserved adhesive proteins, we hypothesized that the orthologous molecule in Eimeria, EtMIC1, could functionally substitute in Toxoplasma to allow a knockout of TgMIC2. TgMIC2 is partnered with a protein called TgM2AP, which corresponds to EtMIC2 in Eimeria. Because the activity of TgMIC2 is most likely tightly linked to its association with TgM2AP, it was thought that the activity of EtMIC1 might similarly require its partner EtMIC2. EtMIC1 and EtMIC2 were introduced into T. gondii, and the presence of EtMIC1 allowed the first knockout clone of TgMIC2 to be obtained. The TgMIC2 KO resulted in significantly decreased numbers of invaded parasites compared to the parental clone. In the absence of TgMIC2, TgM2AP was incorrectly processed and mistargeted to the parasitophorous vacuole instead of the micronemes. These findings indicate that the EtMIC1 can compensate for the essential requirement of TgMIC2, but it cannot fully functionally substitute for TgMIC2 in the invasion process or for supporting the correct maturation and targeting of TgM2AP.
Recombinant GRA4 or ROP2 protein combined with alum or the gra4 gene provides partial protection in chronic murine models of toxoplasmosis.	The efficacy of vaccination with Toxoplasma gondii recombinant GRA4 (rGRA4) and ROP2 (rRPO2) proteins and a mix of both combined with alum were evaluated in C57BL/6 and C3H mice. In C57BL/6 mice, rGRA4 and rGRA4-rROP2 immunizations generated similar levels of immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) and IgG2a isotypes against GRA4, whereas immunizations with rROP2 and the mix induced a predominant IgG1 production against ROP2. All groups of C3H vaccinated mice exhibited higher levels of IgG1 than IgG2a. rGRA4-stimulated splenocytes from vaccinated mice produced primarily gamma interferon while those stimulated with rROP2 produced interleukin-4. Challenge of rGRA4- or rGRA4-rROP2-vaccinated mice from both strains with ME49 cysts resulted in fewer brain cysts than the controls, whereas vaccination with rROP2 alone only conferred protection to C3H mice. Immunization with a plasmid carrying the entire open reading frame of GRA4 showed a protective level similar to that of rGRA4 combined with alum. These results suggest that GRA4 can be a good candidate for a multiantigen anti-T. gondii vaccine based on the use of alum as an adjuvant.
Genomics meets transgenics in search of the elusive Cryptosporidium drug target.	Cryptosporidium is an important pathogen of humans, and a challenging model for the laboratory. The parasite genome sequence, accessible through a comprehensive database, now provides exciting opportunities for urgently needed advances. Comparative genomics, combined with the genetic system in the related parasite Toxoplasma gondii, outlines a detailed Cryptosporidium parvum metabolic map and facilitates cell biological analyses. New targets for Cryptosporidium drug and vaccine development can be identified and validated based on this approach.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii DNA by polymerase chain reaction in experimentally desiccated tissues.	Despite toxoplasmosis being a common infection among human and other warm-blooded animals worldwide, there are no findings about Toxoplasma gondii evolutionary forms in ancient populations. The molecular techniques used for amplification of genetic material have allowed recovery of ancient DNA (aDNA) from parasites contained in mummified tissues. The application of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to paleoparasitological toxoplasmosis research becomes a promising option, since it might allow diagnosis, acquisition of paleoepidemiological data, access to toxoplasmosis information related origin, evolution, and distribution among the ancient populations. Furthermore, it makes possible the analysis of parasite aDNA aiming at phylogenetic studies. To standardize and evaluate PCR applicability to toxoplasmosis paleodiagnostic, an experimental mummification protocol was tested using desiccated tissues from mice infected with the ME49 strain cysts, the chronic infection group (CIG), or infected with tachyzoites (RH strain), the acute infection group (AIG). Tissues were subjected to DNA extraction followed by PCR amplification of T. gondii B1 gene. PCR recovered T. gondii DNA in thigh muscle, encephalon, heart, and lung samples. AIG presented PCR positivity in encephalon, lungs, hearts, and livers. Based on this results, we propose this molecular approach for toxoplasmosis research in past populations.
Roles of Toxoplasma gondii-derived heat shock protein 70 in host defense against T. gondii infection.	C57BL/6 mice receiving intraperitoneal injection of Toxoplasma gondii -derived heat shock protein 70 (T.g. HSP70) on day 3 post T. gondii infection succumbed by day 9 post infection, while vector protein-injected control mice survived more than 6 months. The deteriorating effect of T.g. HSP70 on host immune responses was dose-dependent. By T.g. HSP70 injection, T. gondii loads increased in various organs of T. gondii-infected mice. Th2 cytokines such as IL-4 and IL-10 were continuously produced from spleen and peritoneal exudate cells of T. gondii -infected mice by injection of T.g. HSP70. Furthermore, nitric oxide production from peritoneal macrophages in T. gondii-infected mice was reduced by T.g. HSP70.
Early detection of Toxoplasma infection by molecular monitoring of Toxoplasma gondii in peripheral blood samples after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	Isolated case reports have shown that recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCTs) who develop toxoplasmosis may have circulating Toxoplasma gondii DNA in peripheral blood before the onset of clinical symptoms.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii by "Polymerase Chain Reaction" (PCR) technique in AIDS infected patients using the repetitive sequence TGR1E]	A repetitive original DNA sequence, TGR1E, was cloned and sequenced, then used to develop a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for detecting Toxoplasma gondii. Preliminary studies were performed using purified T. gondii DNA or a lysate of purified T. gondii cells [7], with or without a leukocyte lysate. A negative correlation was evidenced between sensitivity of the test and the amount of cellular debris contaminating the DNA to be amplified. Nevertheless, the method was tested on 100 clinical specimens subjected to lysis using the same method. Among the 88 specimens from AIDS patients, four were positive by conventional diagnostic tests and by PCR. Among the 12 specimens tested as part of evaluations for the prevention of congenital toxoplasmosis, PCR failed to detect the positive results yielded by conventional tests on two amniotic fluid specimens. No false positive result was seen with the PCR method.
Tetracycline analogue-regulated transgene expression in Plasmodium falciparum blood stages using Toxoplasma gondii transactivators.	Genetic manipulation has revolutionized research in the Apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium falciparum, the most important causative agent of malaria. However, to date no techniques have been established that allow modifications that are deleterious to blood-stage growth, such as the disruption of essential genes or the expression of dominant-negative transgenes. The recent establishment of a screen for functional transactivators in the related parasite Toxoplasma gondii prompted us to identify transactivators in T. gondii and to examine their functionality in P. falciparum. Tetracycline-responsive minimal promoters were generated based on the characterized P. falciparum calmodulin promoter and used to assess transactivators in P. falciparum. We demonstrate that artificial tetracycline-regulated transactivators isolated in T. gondii are also functional in P. falciparum. By using the tetracycline analogue anhydrotetracycline, efficient, stage-specific gene regulation was achieved in P. falciparum. This regulatable expression technology has clear potential for the study of essential gene function in P. falciparum blood stages. On the other hand, the identified transactivators are not functional in mammalian cells, consistent with the fundamental differences in the mechanism of gene regulation between Apicomplexan parasites and their human hosts.
Recent trends in molecular diagnostics for Toxoplasma gondii infections.	Toxoplasmosis is an important parasitic infection of man and animals. It is well-known that the progression and severity of disease depend on the immunological status of the host, but recent studies suggest that the genetics of the parasite can also play a role. Diagnosis based on clinical appearance and serology is not always easy. However, molecular methods do not depend on an immune response, and allow direct detection of the parasite in biological samples. Thus they can be used to establish a diagnosis when serological tests are not definitive. Multicopy sequences specific for Toxoplasma gondii, e.g., the B1 gene or the 529-bp sequence, are especially useful in molecular tests. Real-time PCR is very sensitive and is a promising technique that is capable of providing a quantitative result. Molecular methods are also used for genotypic characterisation of T. gondii isolates. Analysis of polymorphic sequences determines the precise strain. The choice of sequence is critical when undertaking studies on the correlation between clinical signs and symptoms of disease and the T. gondii genotype. Further studies involving direct genotyping of T. gondii from clinical samples are needed.
Evaluation of a Real-time PCR-based assay using the lightcycler system for detection of Toxoplasma gondii bradyzoite genes in blood specimens from patients with toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis.	PCR based methods have advantages over traditional methods for the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis, especially when serology fails and clinical symptoms are not evident. However, current PCR-based assays are often labour-intensive and not readily quantifiable and have the potential for contamination due to a requirement for postamplification sample handling. Real-time PCR can address these limitations. We have developed and evaluated a highly sensitive Real-time PCR (Light-cycler, LC-PCR) to detect and quantify Toxoplasma gondii B1 and bradyzoite specific genes (SAG-4, MAG-1) in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) specimens, from five immunocompetent subjects with clinically suspected toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis (TRC) or without a suspected T. gondii infection. A standard curve for quantitation of parasitic load was generated using SYBR Green I fluorescent detection. The results were compared with those obtained with a nested PCR (n-PCR). In TRC patients, both PCR methods confirmed ophtalmoscopy and fluorangiographic findings. Among the TRC patients, the use of LC-PCR was more sensitive than n-PCR for detection and quantification of either B1 gene (P<0.001) or SAG-4/MAG-1 gene (P<0.05). LC-PCR has been shown particularly useful to accurately determine the parasite DNA load in follow-up specimens in whom the performance of either B1 or SAG-4 and MAG-1 in detecting T. gondii loads, varied with respect to specific antitoxoplasmic treatment.
Identification of proteins interacting with Toxoplasma SRCAP by yeast two-hybrid screening.	Toxoplasma gondii is an opportunistic protozoan parasite that differentiates into latent cysts (bradyzoite) that can be reactivated during immunosuppression. TgSRCAP (Toxoplasma gondii Snf2-related CBP activator protein) is a SWI2/SNF2 family chromatin remodeler whose expression increases during cyst development. Identifying the proteins associating with TgSRCAP during the pre-cyst stage (tachyzoite) will increase our understanding of how parasite differentiation is initiated. We employed the yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins that may interact directly with TgSRCAP. A stretch of 1,060 amino acids between ATPase subdomains IV and V of TgSRCAP was chosen as "bait" since the corresponding region in human SRCAP interacts with other proteins, including CREB binding protein. We have identified several novel parasite-specific transcription factors predicted to be in the T. gondii genome. Metabolic enzymes that may participate in cyst development were also identified as interacting with TgSRCAP.
The genotype of Toxoplasma gondii strains causing ocular toxoplasmosis in humans in Brazil.	To determine Toxoplasma gondii genotype in scars of retinochoroiditis in humans.
Construction of a molecular karyotype for Toxoplasma gondii.	As an important step in developing genetic systems for the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii, we have constructed a molecular karyotype based on separation of chromosomes by pulsed field gel electrophoresis and assignment of linkage groups by hybridization. Toxoplasma chromosomes were separated using transverse alternating field electrophoresis (TAFE) gels into 9 distinct bands that defined a minimum of 10 physical linkage groups with apparent sizes that range from approximately 2 Mb to more than 6 Mb. Individual chromosome sizes were stable with prolonged mitotic passage of a single strain but varied by approximately 15% for chromosomes III and V between three different strains of Toxoplasma. Preliminary physical linkage groups were defined by mapping 57 single or low copy number probes to specific chromosomes by hybridization. The majority of these probes consist of random DNA segments; however, a number of cDNAs encoding important structural and antigenic components were also mapped to specific linkage groups. Assuming random distribution, this set of probes should provide approximately 1 marker every 1.0-1.5 Mb over the 80 Mb haploid genome and should greatly aid in using genetics to study the biology, drug resistance, and virulence of this important opportunistic pathogen.
Biochemical and genetic analysis of the distinct proliferating cell nuclear antigens of Toxoplasma gondii.	The apicomplexa parasite Toxoplasma gondii expresses two distinct proliferating cell nuclear antigens (PCNA) that exhibit distinct patterns of subcellular localization during tachyzoite growth. In all cell cycle phases, TgPCNA1 is concentrated in the nucleus, while TgPCNA2 is only concentrated in the nucleus during S-phase and uniformly distributed throughout the cell during mitosis and early G1-phase. TgPCNA1-GFP and native TgPCNA2 display a punctate staining pattern that is consistent with assembly into replication foci during S-phase; however, TgPCNA2 disassociates from replication foci before TgPCNA1-GFP. Consistent with the distinct pattern of TgPCNA2 cellular localization, homotypic TgPCNA2 interactions were primarily observed by yeast two-hybrid or co-immunoprecipitation analysis. Transgenic parasites in which the TgPCNA2 gene was disrupted displayed a slower growth rate in vitro; however, no difference in DNA polymerase activity, response to chemical mutagens, or recombinational frequency was observed in these mutant clones demonstrating that TgPCNA2 is non-essential in the tachyzoite developmental stage. Heterologous expression of TgPCNA1, but not TgPCNA2, was able to complement a POL30 cold-sensitive yeast strain suggesting that this isoform may serve as a major replisomal factor in T. gondii and is consistent with the failure to disrupt this gene in tachyzoites.
Sensitivity and specificity of polymerase chain reaction for the detection of Toxoplasma gondii DNA added to laboratory samples.	We studied the sensitivity and specificity of PCR to detect T. gondii DNA by aliquoting various concentration of tachyzoites into laboratory specimens from 60 positive and 10 negative buffy-coat samples. We were able to detect the specific gene from purified DNA samples containing as few as 0.25 parasites per 100,000 human leukocytes. These results had an impressive initial 100% specificity but later it decreased because of false-negative data.
An overview of molecular parasitology in China.	Molecular cloning technology has been gradually used in the studies of parasitic diseases in China since 1986. The information briefly reviewed here deals mainly with: (1) the molecular cloning of immunogen genes related to Schistosome and Plasmodium; (2) a diagnostic DNA probe for malaria and toxoplasmosis; and (3) DNA probes for inter- and intra-specific differentiation of Leishmania, Schistosome, Entamoeba, etc.
Physical and genetic mapping of cloned ribosomal DNA from Toxoplasma gondii: primary and secondary structure of the 5S gene.	The ribosomal DNA (rDNA encoding rRNA) of the obligately intracellular protozoan parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, was identified, cloned, physically mapped, its copy number determined, and the 5S gene sequenced. Using total RNA as a probe, a collection of recombinant lambda phages containing copies of rDNA were isolated from a lambda 2001 tachyzoite genomic library. Northern gel hybridization confirmed specific homology of the 7.5-kb rDNA unit, subcloned into pTZ18R, to T. gondii rRNA. The mapped rDNA found in pTOX1 contained small ribosomal subunit (SS; 18S)- and large ribosomal subunit (LS; 26S)-encoding genes localized using intragenic heterologous probes from the conserved sequences of the SS (18S) and LS (28S) Xenopus laevis genes. the physical mapping data, together with partial digestion experiments and Southern gel hybridization, confirmed a 7.5-kb rDNA unit arranged in a simple head-to-tail fashion that is tandemly repeated. We estimated the rDNA repeat copy number in T. gondii to be 110 copies per haploid tachyzoite genome. Parts of the SS gene and the complete 5S gene were sequenced. The 5S gene was found to be within the rDNA locus, a rare occurrence found only in some fungi and protozoa. Secondary-structure analysis revealed an organization remarkably similar to the 5S RNA of eukaryotes.
Toxoplasma gondii: detection by mouse bioassay, histopathology, and polymerase chain reaction in tissues from experimentally infected pigs.	In the present study, we evaluated three techniques, mouse bioassay, histopathology, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect Toxoplasma gondii infection in tissues from experimentally infected pigs. Twelve mixed breed pigs, seronegative for T. gondii using an indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT), were used. Ten pigs were infected with 4 x 10(4) VEG strain oocysts, and two were maintained as uninfected controls. Animals were killed 60 days pos infection. Muscle (heart, tongue, diaphragm, and masseter) and brain samples were collected to investigate the presence of T. gondii tissue cysts by the different assay methods. For the bioassay, samples of brain (50 g) and pool of muscle samples (12.5 g of tongue, masseter, diaphragm, and heart) were used. PCR was performed using Tox4 and Tox5 primers which amplified a 529 bp fragment. The DNA extraction and PCR were performed three times, and all tissue samples were tested individually (brain, tongue, masseter, diaphragm, and heart). For histopathology, fragments of tissues were fixed in 10% of buffered formal saline and stained with HE. Histopathological results were all negative. PCR showed 25/150 (16.6%) positive samples, being 17/120 (14.1%) and 8/30 (26.6%) from muscle, and brain tissues, respectively. Tissue cysts of T. gondii were identified by mouse bioassay in 54/98 (55.1%) samples, being 31/48 (64.6%) from muscle samples, and 23/50 (46.0%) from brain samples. Toxoplasma gondii isolation in muscle samples by mouse bioassay was higher than in PCR (P<0.01). Results indicate that DNA from pig tissues interfered with 529-bp-PCR sensitivity, and mouse bioassay was better than PCR in detecting T. gondii in tissues from pigs.
Single argonaute protein from Toxoplasma gondii is involved in the double-stranded RNA induced gene silencing.	Here, we report the characterization of the argonaute protein from Toxoplasma gondii. This is the first report on the function of an argonaute protein with structural features overlapping between argonaute proteins of archaeal bacteria and eukaryotes. The full-length cDNA clone has an open reading frame of 1575 bp, which encodes a 524 amino acid protein with a calculated molecular weight of 58.5 kDa and an estimated isoelectric point of 9.4. This argonaute protein, called TgAgo, exhibits unique features: (i) TgAgo is smaller than reported argonaute proteins derived from higher eukaryotic organisms (i.e. Arabidopsis, human and nematodes) but has a similar size to those from archaeal bacteria (i.e. Pyrococcus furiosus and Archaeoglobus fulgidus); (ii) TgAgo contains a conserved PIWI domain and non-conserved PAZ domain; (iii) TgAgo is mainly localized in the cytoplasm; and (iv) despite its small size, TgAgo participates in the double-stranded RNA induced gene silencing. Using a transgenic parasite line, in which TgAgo expression is lowered, we showed that the expression of TgAgo is required for the double-stranded RNA induced gene silencing, RNA interference mechanism.
Multicenter proficiency study for detection of Toxoplasma gondii in amniotic fluid by nucleic acid amplification methods.	A proficiency panel was designed to assess the performance of nucleic acid amplification technologies for the detection of Toxoplasma gondii in amniotic fluid.
Primary structure of mature SAG1 gene of an Indonesian Toxoplasma gondii and comparison with other strains.	Toxoplasma gondii is a persistent protozoan parasite capable of infecting almost any warm-blooded vertebrates. SAG1 (p30) is the prototypic member of a superfamily of surface antigens called SRS (SAG1-related sequence). It constitutes the most abundant and predominant antigen. In this paper the primary structure of mature SAG1 gene of an Indonesian T. gondii isolate is described and sequence comparison is made with published sequence data of 7 other strains or isolates. Sequence comparison indicated that SAG1 is highly conserved through evolution and despite parasite spreading world-wide. Sequences may be divided into two major families, independent of the strain/isolate geographic origin. Variations were mainly localized at the C-terminal half or domain 2 and some clustered in restricted areas. Sequence comparison allowed us to define the Indonesian isolate as genuine virulent RH strain. A phylogenetic tree of Toxoplasma strains/isolates was constructed based on SAG1.
Apicomplexa genes involved in the host cell invasion: the Cpa135 protein family.	The availability of a bulk of genomic data of Apicomplexa parasites is a unique opportunity to identify groups of related proteins that are characteristic of this phylum. The Cpa135 protein of Cryptosporidium parvum is expressed and secreted through the apical complex at the invasive stage of sporozoite. This protein is characterised by an LCCL domain, a common trait of various secreted proteins within Apicomplexa. Using the Cpa135 as a "virtual template", we have identified Cpa135 orthologous genes in four apicomplexan species (Plasmodium falciparum, Theileria parva, Toxoplasma gondii and Eimeria tenella). In addition, the architecture of the deduced proteins shows that the Cpa135-related proteins are a distinct family among the apicomplexan LCCL proteins.
Toxoplasma gondii genotype determines MyD88-dependent signaling in infected macrophages.	Infection of mouse macrophages with Toxoplasma gondii elicits MAPK activation and IL-12 production, but host cell signaling pathways have not been clearly delineated. Here, we compared macrophage signaling in response to high virulence type I (RH) vs low virulence type II (ME49) strain infection. Tachyzoites of both strains induced p38 MAPK-dependent macrophage IL-12 release, although ME49 elicited 2- to 3-fold more cytokine than RH. IL-12 production was largely restricted to infected cells in each case. RH-induced IL-12 release did not require MyD88, whereas ME49-triggered IL-12 production was substantially dependent on this TLR/IL-1R adaptor molecule. MyD88 was also not required for RH-stimulated p38 MAPK activation, which occurred in the absence of detectable upstream p38 MAPK kinase activity. In contrast, ME49-driven p38 MAPK activation displayed an MyD88-dependent component. This parasite strain also induced MyD88-dependent activation of MKK4, an upstream activator of p38 MAPK. The results suggest that RH triggers MAPK activation and IL-12 production using MyD88-independent signaling, whereas ME49 uses these pathways as well as MyD88-dependent signaling cascades. Differences in host signaling pathways triggered by RH vs ME49 may contribute to the high and low virulence characteristics displayed by these parasite strains.
Biologic and genetic comparison of Toxoplasma gondii isolates in free-range chickens from the northern Pará state and the southern state Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil revealed highly diverse and distinct parasite populations.	The prevalence of Toxoplasma gondii in 84 free-range chickens (34 from the northern Pará state, and 50 from Rio Grande do Sul, the southern state) from Brazil, South America was determined. Antibodies to T. gondii were assayed by the modified agglutination test (MAT), and found in 39 (46.4%) of 84 chickens with titers of 1:10 in one, 1:20 in two, 1:40 in four, 1:80 in seven, 1:160 in five, 1:320 in six, 1:640 in eight and > or =1:1280 in six. Hearts and brains of 45 chickens with titers of 1:20 or less were pooled and fed to two T. gondii-free cats. Hearts and brains of 39 chickens with titers of 1:10 or higher were bioassayed in mice. Feces of cats were examined for oocysts. One cat fed tissues from 31 chickens with titers of less than 1:10 from Rio Grande do Sul shed T. gondii oocysts. T. gondii was isolated by bioassay in mice from 33 chickens with MAT titers of 1:20 or higher. All infected mice from 10 isolates died of toxoplasmosis. All 34 isolates (15 from Pará, 19 from Rio Grande do Sul) were genotyped using 11 genetic markers including SAG1, SAG2, SAG3, BTUB, GRA6, c22-8, c29-2, L358, PK1, a new SAG2 and Apico. Eleven genotypes were revealed for Pará isolates and seven genotypes for Rio Grande do Sul. No genotype was shared between the two geographical locations. These data suggest that T. gondii isolates are highly diverse and genetically distinct between the two different regions in Brazil that are 3500 km apart.
ApiDB: integrated resources for the apicomplexan bioinformatics resource center.	ApiDB (http://ApiDB.org) represents a unified entry point for the NIH-funded Apicomplexan Bioinformatics Resource Center (BRC) that integrates numerous database resources and multiple data types. The phylum Apicomplexa comprises numerous veterinary and medically important parasitic protozoa including human pathogenic species of the genera Cryptosporidium, Plasmodium and Toxoplasma. ApiDB serves not only as a database in its own right, but as a single web-based point of entry that unifies access to three major existing individual organism databases (PlasmoDB.org, ToxoDB.org and CryptoDB.org), and integrates these databases with data available from additional sources. Through the ApiDB site, users may pose queries and search all available apicomplexan data and tools, or they may visit individual component organism databases.
Toxoplasma gondii expresses two mitogen-activated protein kinase genes that represent distinct protozoan subfamilies.	All eukaryotes express mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) that govern diverse cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, and survival. Even though these proteins are highly conserved throughout nature, MAPKs from closely related species often possess distinct signature sequences, making them well suited as drug discovery targets. Based on the central amino acid in the TXY dual phosphorylation loop, mammalian MAPKs are classified as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), c-Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNKs), or p38 stress-response MAPKs. The presence of MAPKs in nonmetazoan eukaryotes suggests significant evolutionary conservation of these important signalling pathways. We recently cloned a novel stress-response MAPK gene (tgMAPK1) from Toxoplasma gondii, an obligate intracellular human parasite that can cause life-threatening infections in immunocompromised patients, and we now present data on a second T. gondii MAPK gene (tgMAPK2) that we cloned. We show that tgMAPK1 and tgMAPK2 are members of two distinct and previously unknown protozoan MAPK subfamilies that we have named pzMAPKl/pzMAPK3 and pzMAPK2. Our phylogenetic analysis of a collection of protozoan and metazoan MAPK genes in relation to ERK8-like genes demonstrates that an ERK8-like family, which includes the pzMAPK2 subfamily, is represented across a large variety of eukaryotic kingdoms and is evolutionarily very distant from other MAPK families.
An immunohistochemical and polymerase chain reaction evaluation of feline plasmacytic pododermatitis.	Sections of 14 skin biopsies of cats with plasmacytic pododermatitis and a clinical follow-up of 12-36 months were stained with a polyclonal anti-Mycobacterium bovis (Bacille Calmette-Guerin = BCG) antibody cross-reactive to a broad spectrum of fungi and bacteria. All sections were negative for organisms within the actual footpad tissue with the anti-BCG antibody stains. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays that amplify the DNA of Bartonella spp., Ehrlichia spp., Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Chlamydophila felis, Mycoplasma spp., Toxoplasma gondii, and feline herpesvirus 1 (FHV-1) were applied to tissue digests. DNA of those pathogens assessed was not amplified from tissue.
Prevalence of Toxoplasma gondii in dogs from Colombia, South America and genetic characterization of T. gondii isolates.	The prevalence of Toxoplasma gondii in 309 unwanted dogs from Bogotá, Colombia, South America was determined. Antibodies to T. gondii were assayed by the modified agglutination test (MAT) and found in 52 (16.8%) of 309 dogs with titers of 1:20 in 20, 1:40 in six, 1:80 in 17, 1:160 in three, 1:320 in three, 1:1280 or higher in three. Some organs obtained after necropsy of dogs (hearts, tongues and brains, either separately or pooled) were used in bioassays carried out in mice (37 samples, of which 20 were assayed with separate organs and 17 were assayed with pooled organs), cats (pooled organs from six) and pooled organs of two dogs both in mice and cat. Mice receiving dog tissues were examined for T. gondii infection. Feces of cats that received dog tissues were examined for oocyst shedding. In total, T. gondii was isolated from tissues of 20 dogs (16 by bioassays in mice, 3 by bioassay in cats and 1 by bioassay in mice and cat). All infected mice from 7 of 17 isolates bioassayed in this host died of toxoplasmosis during primary infection. Only 10 of the 20 dogs whose tissues were bioassayed separately induced infections in mice. Interestingly, dog organs varied in their capacity to induce T. gondii infection in mice, hearts and tongues producing more positive results than the brain. The 20 T. gondii isolates obtained from seropositive dogs were PCR-RFLP genotyped using polymorphisms at 10 nuclear markers including SAG1, SAG2, SAG3, BTUB, GRA6, c22-8, c29-2, L358, PK1, a new SAG2 and an apicoplast marker Apico. Ten genotypes were revealed. These genotypes are different from the three predominant Types I, II and III lineages that are widely spread in North America and Europe. A new allele denoted u-3 at PK1 locus was identified in three isolates. This result supports previous findings that T. gondii population is highly diverse in Colombia.
Identification of a necessary element for Toxoplasma gondii SAG1 gene expression.	SAG1 codes for the stage-specific major surface antigen P30 of Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) tachyzoites. Six tandemly repeated, conserved 27 bp cassettes in the region from -231 to -70 bp were previously confirmed to be essential for high-level expression of SAG1 and serve as a positioning element directing the initiation of transcription. We demonstrate here that an element located between +19 and +28 bp is necessary for SAG1 gene expression by using deletion mutagenesis analysis and electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA). This will provide an insight into the regulatory mechanisms of SAG1 gene expression.
Bradyzoite-specific surface antigen SRS9 plays a role in maintaining Toxoplasma gondii persistence in the brain and in host control of parasite replication in the intestine.	Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous parasite that persists for the life of a healthy mammalian host. A latent, chronic infection can reactivate upon immunosuppression and cause life-threatening diseases, such as encephalitis. A key to the pathogenesis is the parasite's interconversion between the tachyzoite (in acute infection) and bradyzoite (in chronic infection) stages. This developmental switch is marked by differential expression of numerous, closely related surface proteins belonging to the SRS (SAG1-related sequence) superfamily. To probe the functions of bradyzoite-specific SRSs, we created a bioluminescent strain lacking the expression of SRS9, one of the most abundant SRSs of the bradyzoite stage. Imaging of mice intraperitoneally infected with tachyzoites revealed that during an acute infection, wild-type and Deltasrs9 strains replicated at similar rates, disseminated systemically following similar kinetics, and initially yielded similar brain cyst numbers. However, during a chronic infection, Deltasrs9 cyst loads substantially decreased compared to those of the wild type, suggesting that SRS9 plays a role in maintaining parasite persistence in the brain. In oral infection with bradyzoite cysts, the Deltasrs9 strain showed oral infectivity and dissemination patterns indistinguishable from those of the wild type. When chronically infected mice were treated with the immunosuppressant dexamethasone, however, the Deltasrs9 strain reactivated in the intestinal tissue after only 8 to 9 days, versus 2 weeks for the wild-type strain. Thus, SRS9 appears to play an important role in both persistence in the brain and reactivation in the intestine. Possible mechanisms for this are discussed.
A new perspective on and re-assessment of SAG2 locus as the tool for genetic analysis of Toxoplasma gondii isolates.	SAG2 locus, the coding gene of the P22 protein, has been widely used for the molecular epidemiology of Toxoplasma gondii and characterization of the parasite isolates with two separate polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) processes. To re-assess the resolution power and suitability of this genetic marker for molecular characterization of the parasite isolates, a number of 27 Toxoplasma strains from different zymodeme patterns were used in the present study. Both codon and non-codon regions of the SAG2 locus of all 27 strains were amplified and subjected to sequencing and nucleotide alignment. Nucleotide variations clustered the three major genotypes (I, II and III). Some minor genotypes, unidentifiable by SAG2-RFLP, could be identified by sequence comparison. However, there were other genotypes that could not be differentiated from the major types due to having identical sequences. This suggests that a remarkable number of field isolates representing several minor types will be miss-clustered with the major types by using the traditional SAG2-PCR-RFLP method. It was concluded that this technique seems not to be suitable for Toxoplasma population study. Thus, the utilization of more variable markers and other discriminatory methods are also recommended.
Studies on the immuno-protection of ROP2 nuclei acid vaccine in Toxoplasma gondii infection]	To study the protective effect of ROP2 nuclei acid vaccine in mice.
Toxoplasma gondii: DNA vaccination with genes encoding antigens MIC2, M2AP, AMA1 and BAG1 and evaluation of their immunogenic potential.	A combination of antigenic regions of microneme proteins have been previously reported as being protective against chronic toxoplasmosis. In this work, we evaluated immune responses induced by immunizing BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice intradermally with plasmid DNA encoding the protein sequences of Toxoplasma gondii AMA1, MIC2, M2AP and BAG1. Mice immunized with the AMA1 gene developed high levels of serum IgG2a and c antibodies as well as cellular immune responses associated with IFN-gamma synthesis suggesting a modulated Th1 type of response. Immunization with the AMA1 gene resulted in a partial but significant protection against the acute phase of toxoplasmosis compared to MIC2, M2AP and BAG1 genes. Therefore, the AMA1 gene appears to generate a strong specific immune response and also provides effective protection against toxoplasmosis more than the MIC2, M2AP and BAG1 genes.
The development of a molecular approach for coprodiagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii.	Copro-diagnostic methods for Toxoplasma gondii infected cats have been traditionally based on the identification of oocysts by light microscopy or by bioassays. The first method is not sensitive and also unable to differentiate between Toxoplasma oocysts from other coccidian parasites in cats, and the second is cumbersome, time consuming and expensive. We have adapted a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to detect T. gondii oocyst DNA in fecal samples. Oocysts were successfully disrupted by freeze thawing coupled with mechanical means, and DNA extraction was subsequently accomplished. The test, based on amplifying a 529 bp repeated sequence, proved sensitive for detecting 1-2 oocysts in 200 microg of stool sample. The test specificity was established by showing that DNA from other cat coccidia tested negative. Specificity was reconfirmed by Southern hybridization of the PCR products with a specific probe. Of 122 stool samples from Jerusalem cats surveyed for the presence of Toxoplasma oocysts, 11 were found positive by PCR while none was detected by microscopy.
Increased efficiency of homologous recombination in Toxoplasma gondii dense granule protein 3 demonstrates that GRA3 is not necessary in cell culture but does contribute to virulence.	Toxoplasma gondii possesses unique secretory organelles, which synchronously release proteins during and after invasion. One of these organelles, the dense granules, secrete proteins after invasion which are thought to be important in development of the parasite throughout all stages of its life cycle. Dense granule protein 3 (GRA3) is a 30 kDa protein localized to the intravacuolar network and parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM). Like many dense granule proteins, GRA3 has no homology to proteins with described functions. However, it has been hypothesized to be involved in nutrient acquisition for the parasite due to its localization on the PVM. To begin to investigate the importance of GRA3, the locus was disrupted by homologous replacement with a chloramphenicol resistance gene in a type II strain. Two DeltaGRA3 strains were obtained after two independent electroporations with efficiency greater than 80%. No differences between wild-type and DeltaGRA3 were detected in cell culture growth rate or bradyzoite formation. Location of other parasite dense granule proteins and association with host cell organelles were also not affected in DeltaGRA3. Interestingly, at an infectious dose approximately four-fold above the lethal dose 50% for wild-type parasites, all mice infected with DeltaGRA3-2 infected mice survived acute infection. Complementation of GRA3 expression in the DeltaGRA3-2 strain restored virulence to wild-type levels, and increased the virulence of the DeltaGRA3-1, confirming that the GRA3 protein plays a role during acute infection in a type II strain.
Genetic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii isolates in dogs from Vietnam suggests their South American origin.	Dogs are considered a potential risk for transmission of Toxoplasma gondii to humans because they can mechanically transmit oocysts to people and in certain parts of the world dog meat is consumed by humans. The prevalence of T. gondii in 42 dogs from rural Vietnam was determined. Antibodies to T. gondii were assayed by the modified agglutination test, and found in 21 (50%) of 42 dogs with titers of 1:20 in six, 1:40 in seven, 1:80 in two, 1:160 in two, 1:320 in two, 1:640 in one, and 1:1280 or higher in one. Hearts, tongues and brains of 21 seropositive dogs were bioassayed in cats, mice or both. Tissues from eight seropositive dogs were fed to eight T. gondii-free cats. Feces of cats were examined for oocysts. T. gondii was isolated from eight dogs by bioassay in cats. Genotyping of these eight T. gondii isolates using polymorphisms at 10 nuclear markers including SAG1, SAG2, SAG3, BTUB, GRA6, c22-8, c29-2, L358, PK1 and a new SAG2, and an apicoplast marker Apico revealed two genotypes. Both genotypes were previously identified from the dog isolates in Colombia, suggesting their South America origin. However, they are different from the predominant Type I, II and III lineages that are widely spread in North America and Europe. This is the first report of isolation of viable T. gondii from any host in Vietnam.
A highly efficient form of the selenocysteine insertion sequence element in protozoan parasites and its use in mammalian cells.	Selenoproteins are an elite group of proteins containing a rare amino acid, selenocysteine (Sec), encoded by the codon, UGA. In eukaryotes, incorporation of Sec requires a Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, a stem-loop structure located in the 3'-untranslated regions of selenoprotein mRNAs. Here we report identification of a noncanonical form of SECIS element in Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora canine, single-celled apicomplexan parasites of humans and domestic animals. This SECIS has a GGGA sequence in the SBP2-binding site in place of AUGA previously considered invariant. Using a combination of computational and molecular techniques, we show that Toxoplasma and Neospora possess both canonical and noncanonical SECIS elements. The GGGA-type SECIS element supported Sec insertion in mammalian HEK 293 and NIH 3T3 cells and did so more efficiently than the natural mammalian SECIS elements tested. In addition, mammalian type I and type II SECIS elements mutated into the GGGA forms were functional but manifested decreased Sec insertion efficiency. We carried out computational searches for both AUGA and GGGA forms of SECIS elements in Toxoplasma and detected five selenoprotein genes, including one coding for a previously undescribed selenoprotein, designated SelQ, and two containing the GGGA form of the SECIS element. In contrast, the GGGA-type SECIS elements were not detected in mammals and nematodes. As a practical outcome of the study, we developed pSelExpress1, a vector for convenient expression of selenoproteins in mammalian cells. It contains an SBP2 gene and the most efficient tested SECIS element: an AUGA mutant of the GGGA-type Toxoplasma SelT structure.
Dissemination of extracellular and intracellular Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites in the blood flow.	Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite. It has been thought that T. gondii can disseminate throughout the body by circulation of tachyzoite-infected leukocytes (intracellular parasite) in the blood flow. However, a small number of parasites exist as free extracellular tachyzoites in the blood flow (extracellular parasite). It is still controversial whether the extracellular parasites in the blood flow disseminate into the peripheral tissues. In this study, we evaluated the dissemination efficiency of the extracellular and intracellular parasites in the blood flow using GFP-expressing transgenic parasite (PLK/GFP) and DsRed Express-expressing transgenic parasite (PLK/RED). When PLK/GFP and PLK/RED tachyzoites were injected, as intracellular and extracellular forms respectively, at the same time into the tail vein of a mouse, many disseminated green fluorescent PLK/GFP tachyzoites were observed in the lung, the spleen, the liver and the brain. However, only a few red fluorescent PLK/RED tachyzoites were detected in these organs. When PLK/GFP and PLK/RED tachyzoites were injected in the opposite manner, that is, as extracellular and intracellular forms respectively, the majority of tachyzoites in these tissues were PLK/RED tachyzoites. Collectively, these results indicate that intracellular tachyzoites mainly disseminate throughout the body and that extracellular tachyzoites hardly contribute to parasite dissemination.
Evaluation of immunization with tachyzoite excreted-secreted proteins in a novel susceptible mouse model (A/Sn) for Toxoplasma gondii.	Toxoplasma gondii is an important food-borne parasite transmitted primarily from animals to humans through meat consumption, mainly pork and lamb, as well as through oocysts shed by cats. Infection in humans can cause severe neonatal malformations, ocular complications or encephalitis. Toxoplasmosis infection during pregnancy, especially in sheep, often results in abortion, representing considerable economic loss. The aim of this study was to investigate whether Toxoplasma gondii pooled excreted-secreted antigens (ESA), recovered from infected culture supernatants with tachyzoites used as immunogen, can protect experimental mice against T. gondii infection. For immunization experiments, we evaluated A/Sn inbred mice, a novel susceptible mouse model for T. gondii and a virulent strain (RH) for challenge experiments. The antigen selection was based on those produced by tachyzoites since they are responsible for disseminating the infection as well as stimulating the humoral and cellular immune responses. ESA were recovered from VERO cell-culture supernatants infected with virulent RH strain tachyzoites harvested after 48 h. Groups of 5 female mice were intraperitoneally (i.p.) immunized with 4 doses at 2 week intervals with 20 microg of ESA adsorbed to 0.5 mg of alum. The control group received only the adjuvant in PBS on the same dates. Pooled serum collected from chronically infected mice was used as positive control. Blood samples were collected from tail veins 14 days after each immunization. Antibody was detected using ELISA, indirect immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. Anti-ESA antibodies were also evaluated by agglutination, complement-mediated lysis and antibody-mediated cellular toxicity. Fifteen days after the last immunization, both groups were challenged (i.p.) with 1 x 10(3) RH strain tachyzoites. The parasitemia was evaluated by PCR, and survival was followed daily. The results showed an increase of antibody levels after each immunization. Anti-ESA antibodies also reacted with a crude tachyzoite antigen and bonded on the parasite surface, with particularly high intensity at the apical region. Anti-ESA antibodies were also able to agglutinate and kill tachyzoites in vitro through interactions with complement and cellular pathways. Even though the tachyzoite challenge was lethal to the mice, PCR results suggested that immunized mice had lower parasitemia as well as longer survival (72 h) than mice from the control group.
Epidemiological and genetic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii in urban pigeons from the area of Lisbon (Portugal).	Circumstantial evidence suggests that birds may be a good indicator of soil contamination, since they feed from the ground. Therefore a study was conducted to assess the prevalence of Toxoplasma gondii in urban pigeons (Columba livia) from different areas of the city of Lisbon and to genetically characterize T. gondii strains isolated from infected animals, in order to assess circulating genotypes. Sera from 695 pigeons captured at 33 different localities of the city of Lisbon were assayed by the direct agglutination test (DAT) showing a 4.6% prevalence. One third of flocks sampled revealed to be infected with T. gondii, with prevalence ranging between 5% and 62.5%. T. gondii DNA could be characterized directly from brain tissue from 12 of 23 seropositive pigeons. Microsatellite typing revealed that 9 strains belonged to type II, 2 were type III and one was type I. No recombinant or atypical genotypes were found. Attempts to recover viable T. gondii strains through bioassay in mice resulted in the isolation of 9 strains.
Secondary mutations correct fitness defects in Toxoplasma gondii with dinitroaniline resistance mutations.	Dinitroanilines (oryzalin, trifluralin, ethafluralin) disrupt microtubules in protozoa but not in vertebrate cells, causing selective death of intracellular Toxoplasma gondii parasites without affecting host cells. Parasites containing alpha1-tubulin point mutations are dinitroaniline resistant but show increased rates of aberrant replication relative to wild-type parasites. T. gondii parasites bearing the F52Y mutation were previously demonstrated to spontaneously acquire two intragenic mutations that decrease both resistance levels and replication defects. Parasites bearing the G142S mutation are largely dependent on oryzalin for viable growth in culture. We isolated 46 T. gondii lines that have suppressed microtubule defects associated with the G142S or the F52Y mutations by acquiring secondary mutations. These compensatory mutations were alpha1-tubulin pseudorevertants or extragenic suppressors (the majority alter the beta1-tubulin gene). Many secondary mutations were located in tubulin domains that suggest that they function by destabilizing microtubules. Most strikingly, we identified seven novel mutations that localize to an eight-amino-acid insert that stabilizes the alpha1-tubulin M loop, including one (P364R) that acts as a compensatory mutation in both F52Y and G142S lines. These lines have reduced dinitroaniline resistance but most perform better than parental lines in competition assays, indicating that there is a trade-off between resistance and replication fitness.
Genetic diversity of Toxoplasma gondii isolates from chickens from Brazil.	Until recently, Toxoplasma gondii was considered clonal with very little genetic variability. Recent studies indicate that T. gondii isolates from Brazil are genetically and biologically different from T. gondii isolates from USA and Europe. In the present study, we retyped 151 free range chicken isolates from Brazil including 117 newly isolated samples from 11 geographically areas (Alagoas, Bahia, Ceará, Maranhão, Paraná, Pernambuco, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, São Paulo, Sergipe, and Rondonia) and 34 previously reported isolates from the very north (Pará) and the very south (Rio Grande do Sul). Ten PCR-RFLP markers including SAG1, SAG2, SAG3, BTUB, GRA6, c22-8, c29-2, L358, PK1, and Apico were used to genotype all isolates. Overall analysis of 151 T. gondii isolates revealed 58 genotypes. Half (29/58) of these genotypes had single isolate and the other half of the genotypes were characterized with two or more isolates. Only 1 of 151 isolates was clonal Type I strain and 5 were clonal Type III strains. Two isolates had mixed infections. Clonal Type II strain was absent. One strain was Type II at all loci, except BTUB. The results confirm high genetic diversity of T. gondii isolates from Brazil.
Phylogenetic evidence for recombination in SAG5 locus in Toxoplasma gondii.	The present study evaluated the hypothesis that genetic diversity in SAG5 genes was generated by recombination events. Three lines of evidence suggested that recombination occurred in SAG5 genes in T. gondii. The permutation test revealed strong signature of intragenic recombination, pairwise comparisons of nucleotide sequences of SAG5 genes revealed that SAG5A alleles have chimerical structures composed of segments derived through recombination events between different alleles, and phylogenetic trees reconstructed based on SAG5 sequences using neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony methods, showed statistically well-supported consensus clusters of T. gondii strains specific to each SAG5 gene. Topological discrepancies between trees based on the N-terminal variable domain and C-terminal conserved domain sequences, were observed, suggesting intragenic recombinetion between SAG5A and SAG5B/C genes. The results showed that recombination within SAG5 in T. gondii was a major evolutionary mechanism generating both allelic variation at SAG5 locus and contributing to genotypic diversity and to emergence of new T. gondii variants, allowing them to evade the host immune defence mechanism.
Detection of molecular markers of toxoplasmosis among Egyptian patients with miscarriage using avidity IgG-ELISA and Western blotting.	A total of 54 miscarriage patients were divided into 3 groups. GI: 10 toxoplasmosis patients with +ve IgM-ELISA; GII: 24 toxoplasmosis patients with +ve IgG-ELISA, and GIII: 20 non-toxoplasmosis cross-matched females as a control. All groups were subjected to IgG-avidity ELISA & IgG-avidity immunoblotting. Avidity Indices (AI) by ELISA ranged from 22.6% to 73.3% in GI and from 9.6%-75.6% in GII. AI were high (>40%) in 3 (30%) patients in G I and in 8 (33.3%) patients in G II. Sera of GI recognized the 20, 28, 32, 60, 93 & 100 Kda bands with 55% reduction in the 38 and 60 Kda bands after treatment with 6 M urea solutions. Sera of GII recognized the 20, 28, 32, 38, 45, 95-97 & 106 Kda bands. There was 12.5%, 16.6% & 16.7% reduction in the 20, 32, & 106 Kda bands, respectively, after urea. The 38 & 60 Kda bands were identified as good diagnostic markers for the recent toxoplasmosis infection (GI). The 20, 32 & 106 Kda bands were good markers of high avidity antibodies during the chronic toxoplasmosis (GII).
Toxoplasma gondii: Recombinant GRA5 antigen for detection of immunoglobulin G antibodies using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.	In this study, for the first time, the evaluation of Toxoplasma gondii full-length recombinant GRA5 antigen for the serodiagnosis of human toxoplasmosis is shown. The recombinant GRA5 antigen as a fusion protein containing His-tag at both terminals was obtained using an Escherichia coli expression system. The usefulness of rGRA5 for the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis in an ELISA was tested on a total of 189 sera from patients with different stages of the infection and 31 sera from sero-negative individuals, obtained during routine diagnostic tests. Anti-GRA5 IgG antibodies were detected in 70.9% of all seropositive serum samples. This result was comparable to ELISA using a Toxoplasma lysate antigen (TLA) and six combinations of recombinant antigens. The sensitivity of IgG ELISA calculated from all positive serum samples was similar for TLA (94.2%), rMAG1+rSAG1+rGRA5 (92.6%), rGRA2+rSAG1+rGRA5 (93.1%) and rROP1+rSAG1+rGRA5 (94.2%) cocktails, whereas the sensitivity of cocktails without rGRA5 antigens was lower giving 82.0%, 86.2% and 87.8%, respectively. Thus, the present study showed that the full-length rGRA5 is suitable for use as a component of an antigen cocktail for the detection of anti-T. gondii IgG antibodies.
Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum in sparrows (Passer domesticus) in the Northeast of Brazil.	Toxoplasma gondii is a cosmopolitan protozoan parasite of warm-blooded animals that causes high rates of infection in mammals and birds. Sparrows (Passer domesticus) are synantropic birds which are distributed worldwide. They serve as intermediate hosts for the parasite but are quite resistant to toxoplasmosis. The aims of this study were to determine the frequency of T. gondii infection in sparrows using serologic and molecular tests, and to investigate related parasites, such as Neospora caninum and Hammondia sp., using a nested PCR for Toxoplasmatinae DNA followed by sequence analysis of the PCR amplicons. A total of 293 sparrows were trapped at the states of Bahia and Pernambuco, Brazil. Tissues of 40 animals were available for molecular tests. Antibodies to T. gondii were found in 1.02% (3/293) of animals using a hemagglutination test, with titers ranging from 1:32 to 1:128. Toxoplasmatinae DNA was detected in 10/40 (25%) sparrows; after nucleotide sequencing, T. gondii was confirmed in 7/40 (17.5%) birds and N. caninum in 3/40 (7.5%) animals. Sparrows from Brazil were confirmed as intermediate hosts of T. gondii, that reinforces the potential importance of these birds on the transmission of the parasite to cats and other animals that may predate sparrows. In addition, N. caninum was detected for the first time in sparrows. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first wild synantropic bird species identified as intermediate host of N. caninum. These findings seem to have a great epidemiologic impact because of the cosmopolitan distribution of sparrows and due to their increasing population in urban and rural areas.
Investigation of Toxoplasma gondii presence in farmed shellfish by nested-PCR and real-time PCR fluorescent amplicon generation assay (FLAG).	To evaluate the presence of Toxoplasma gondii in edible farmed shellfish, 1734 shellfish specimens i.e., 109 Crassostrea gigas (6 pools), 660 Mytilus galloprovincialis (22 pools), 804 Tapes decussatus (28 pools) and 161 Tapes philippinarum (6 pools), were collected from the Varano Lagoon (Apulia, Italy). Shellfish from 62 pools were subjected to two molecular techniques: a nested-PCR assay, and a fluorescent amplicon generation (FLAG) real-time PCR assay, both based on the multi-copy B1 target, were performed. One pooled sample of gills from C. gigas and one pooled sample of haemolymphs from T. decussatus were assessed as positive for T. gondii DNA by both techniques. The results demonstrated the presence of T. gondii in edible farmed C. gigas and T. decussatus and indicate that there may be a considerable health threat involved in eating contaminated raw shellfish.
Prevalence and genotypes of Toxoplasma gondii in feline faeces (oocysts) and meat from sheep, cattle and pigs in Switzerland.	The protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii infects almost all warm blooded animal species including humans, and is one of the most prevalent zoonotic parasites worldwide. Post-natal infection in humans is acquired through oral uptake of sporulated T. gondii oocysts or by ingestion of parasite tissue cysts upon consumption of raw or undercooked meat. This study was undertaken to determine the prevalence of oocyst-shedding by cats and to assess the level of infection with T. gondii in meat-producing animals in Switzerland via detection of genomic DNA (gDNA) in muscle samples. In total, 252 cats (44 stray cats, 171 pet cats, 37 cats with gastrointestinal disorders) were analysed coproscopically, and subsequently species-specific identification of T. gondii oocysts was achieved by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). Furthermore, diaphragm samples of 270 domestic pigs (120 adults, 50 finishing, and 100 free-range animals), 150 wild boar, 250 sheep (150 adults and 100 lambs) and 406 cattle (47 calves, 129 heifers, 100 bulls, and 130 adult cows) were investigated by T. gondii-specific real-time PCR. For the first time in Switzerland, PCR-positive samples were subsequently genotyped using nine PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) loci (SAG2, SAG3, BTUB, GRA6, c22-8, c29-2, L358, PK1 and Apico) for analysis. Only one of the cats shed T. gondii oocysts, corresponding to a T. gondii prevalence of 0.4% (95% CI: 0.0-2.2%). In meat-producing animals, gDNA prevalence was lowest in wild boar (0.7%; 95% CI: 0.0-3.7%), followed by sheep (2.0%; 95% CI: 0.1-4.6%) and pigs (2.2%; 95% CI: 0.8-4.8%). The highest prevalence was found in cattle (4.7%; 95% CI: 2.8-7.2%), mainly due to the high prevalence of 29.8% in young calves. With regard to housing conditions, conventional fattening pigs and free-range pigs surprisingly exhibited the same prevalence (2.0%; 95% CI: 0.2-7.0%). Genotyping of oocysts shed by the cat showed T. gondii with clonal Type II alleles and the Apico I allele. T. gondii with clonal Type II alleles were also predominantly observed in sheep, while T. gondii with mixed or atypical allele combinations were very rare in sheep. In pigs and cattle however, genotyping of T. gondii was often incomplete. These findings suggested that cattle in Switzerland might be infected with Toxoplasma of the clonal Types I or III, atypical T. gondii or more than one clonal Type.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii DNA in the milk of naturally infected ewes.	Toxoplasmosis is the major parasitic disease affecting sheep. It is important for veterinary medicine, animal science and public health since it causes reproductive and economic losses in the herd, as well as damaging human health due to consumption of contaminated meat and milk, which can facilitate zoonotic transmission. Detection of Toxoplasma gondii in ovine milk and lack of data in the literature describing differentiation between acute and chronic disease for this species stimulated the elaboration of the present research project. To achieve the aim of this study, the animals were allocated to two groups of 20 ewes each, of which group 1 was composed of animals with positive serology and group 2 with negative serology. Acute and chronic stages of the disease were differentiated by modified direct agglutination test (MAT), in which antigens were fixed with formalin (MAT-AF) and methanol (MAT-AM). The parasite was detected in milk by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and the molecular identity of the amplified products was confirmed by sequencing. The serological results indicated that sheep had a chronic infection profile. T. gondii DNA was detected in seven milk samples from five seropositive sheep, and twice in milk of two sheep. Sequences of species shared 97-100% identity with T. gondii. These findings allowed the hypothesis that the peripartum period may also lead to the resurgence of tissue T. gondii tachyzoites cysts which can circulate again and be excreted in the milk. This study used sheep naturally infected with T. gondii as a prerequisite for further investigations on the possible participation of this species in toxoplasmosis epidemiology and as a potential transmission route related to consumption of milk from infected sheep.
Evaluation of immune responses in sheep induced by DNA immunization with genes encoding GRA1, GRA4, GRA6 and GRA7 antigens of Toxoplasma gondii.	The dense granule proteins of Toxoplasma gondii are investigated as possible vaccine candidates against the parasite. The aim of this research was to evaluate the immune responses of sheep injected twice, intramuscularly, with DNA plasmids encoding T. gondii dense granule antigens GRA1, GRA4, GRA6 and GRA7 formulated into liposomes. Control sheep were injected with an empty vector or received no injections. The injection of sheep with DNA plasmids encoding for GRA1, GRA4, GRA6 or GRA7 elicited an immune response after the first and the second injections as indicated by the moderate to high antibody responses. The injection of pGRA7 induced a significant level of anti-GRA7 IgG2 antibody and IFN-γ responses indicating a Th1-like immune response whereas injection with pGRA1, pGRA4 and pGRA6 stimulated a IgG1 type antibody response with a limited, if any, IFN-γ response. The results demonstrate that the intramuscular injection of sheep with a DNA liposome formulated plasmid coding for GRA proteins is an effective system that induces a significant immune response against T. gondii.
Natural toxoplasma gondii infections in European brown hares and mountain hares in Finland: proportional mortality rate, antibody prevalence, and genetic characterization.	In material examined postmortem in Finland from May 2006 to April 2009, acute generalized toxoplasmosis was the immunohistochemically confirmed cause of death in 14 (8.1%) of 173 European brown hares (Lepus europaeus) and four (2.7%) of 148 mountain hares (Lepus timidus). Sera from 116 of the European brown hares and 99 of the mountain hares were screened with a commercial direct agglutination test for Toxoplasma gondii-specific IgG antibodies at a dilution of 1:40. All sera from cases of fatal toxoplasmosis had high titers of antibodies reactive to T. gondii. In contrast, none of 107 European brown hares and four (4%) of 96 mountain hares that died of other causes were antibody-positive. The proportional mortality rates and the T. gondii antibody prevalences among noncases differed significantly between the two host species (P<0.05). Direct genetic characterization of the causative agent was performed on DNA extracted from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue of the hares with fatal toxoplasmosis. Based on the results with six microsatellite markers (B18, TUB2, TgM-A, W35, B17, and M33; all six in 15 cases and four in three cases), all the cases were caused by T. gondii genotype II; the size of the PCR product at the seventh marker (M48) varied (213-229 base pairs). The presence of T. gondii genotype II, which is endemic in Europe, is now confirmed in Finnish wildlife: Natural infections with T. gondii parasites belonging to this widespread genotype caused fatal generalized toxoplasmosis in the two species of wild hares.
Unusual toxoplasmic chorioretinitis in advanced age: a diagnostic problem.	To raise awareness regarding presentation of toxoplasmic chorioretinitis late in life, and to discuss the invasive diagnostic options.
Toxoplasma gondii Dense Granule Antigen 1 stimulates apoptosis of monocytes through autocrine TGF-β signaling.	Monocyte/macrophages represent the first line of defense against protozoan parasites. Different mechanisms of monocyte suppression by Toxoplasma gondii that sustain parasite invasion and persistence have been described, including apoptosis. In the present study, we investigated the effect of microbial excretory–secretory polypeptides, namely the microneme protein MIC3 and the dense granule antigen GRA1, on apoptosis of monocytes from patients with congenital toxoplasmosis and healthy individuals. We found that GRA1 but not MIC3 could induce apoptosis of monocytes, observing the effect in samples from both Toxoplasma-infected and uninfected individuals, thus ruling out involvement of mechanisms of apoptosis linked to adaptive immunity or a cellular context related to infection. Selective inhibition of TGF-β type I receptors reversed GRA1-induced apoptosis, indicating that this apoptosis involved canonical TGF-β signaling. By using TGF-β-neutralizing antibodies, we showed that monocyte apoptosis required endogenous TGF-β and that GRA1 stimulation activated TGF-β transcription and expression in monocytes but not lymphocytes, suggesting involvement of an autocrine TGF-β-mediated mechanism in GRA1-induced apoptosis.
Toxoplasmosis in a post-transplant bronchoalveolar lavage: a case report.	Toxoplasma gondii usually causes an asymptomatic and then latent infection in human adults; however, a potentially fatal disseminated form can occur in immunocompromised patients. Given that the diagnosis of acute Toxoplasma infection, as opposed to latent disease, relies on finding direct evidence of T. gondii infection in tissue, pathologic examination is critical. There have only been a few reports describing the cytomorphology of Toxoplasma in exfoliative cytology, and no reports of the findings in Thin Prep. In this report, we describe a fatal case of toxoplasmosis in a cardiac transplant patient that was diagnosed by respiratory cytopathology. Although the extracellular organisms were well visualized on the Wright-Giemsa stained cytospin, they were only faintly seen on the Pap-stained cytospin trapped within mucin and were not easily appreciated on the ThinPrep slides nor the H&E stained cell block sections. An immunohistochemical stain for Toxoplasma performed on the cell block was strongly positive, and an autopsy performed on the patient confirmed disseminated infection. Our case illustrates that the diagnosis of Toxoplasma in exfoliative cytology specimens can be challenging since organisms are not well visualized on ThinPrep or Pap-stained material; therefore, Wright-Giemsa stained material can be particularly helpful.
Comparing the effect of IL-12 genetic adjuvant and alum non-genetic adjuvant on the efficiency of the cocktail DNA vaccine containing plasmids encoding SAG-1 and ROP-2 of Toxoplasma gondii.	Various methods are available for enhancing the potency of DNA vaccines, including employment of different forms of adjuvant. The current study was carried out to evaluate and compare the effects of genetic and non-genetic adjuvants on the immune response stimulated by DNA vaccine. Thus, two adjuvants, IL-12 (genetic adjuvant) and aluminum hydroxide (alum, non-genetic adjuvant), were used with cocktail DNA vaccine containing plasmids encoding complete rhoptry antigen 2 (ROP-2) and surface major antigen 1 (SAG-1) of Toxoplasma gondii. The efficacy of pcROP2+pcSAG1 in stimulation of the immune response against toxoplasmosis with and without adjuvant was evaluated in female BALB/c mice by measuring the level of total IgG antibody and cytokines. The results obtained indicated that after challenging the mice with the fatal RH strain of T. gondii, the survival rates of mice immunized with pcROP2+pcSAG1 (DNA cocktail), pcSAG1+pcROP2+alum, and pcSAG1+pcROP2+IL-12 were significantly greater than that of the control groups (p<0.05). Moreover, measurement of total IgG antibody indicated the significant difference between the control and experimental groups (p<0.05). Finally, the results obtained by measurement of cytokines (IFN-γ and IL-4) showed high levels of IFN-γ and low levels of IL-4 in groups vaccinated with pcROP2+pcSAG1 (DNA cocktail), pcSAG1+pcROP2+alum, and pcSAG1+pcROP2+IL-12 as the experiment groups, in comparison with the controls groups (PBS, pc-DNA3, alum+PBS, and pCAGGS-IL-12+pcDNA3). The results of the study showed that use of adjuvants (IL-12 and alum) coincident with DNA cocktail leads to significant change in the survival rates of the experiment groups in comparison with control groups. Also, there is no significant difference between adjuvants to induce immune responses.
Chimeric fluorescent reporter as a tool for generation of transgenic Eimeria (Apicomplexa, Coccidia) strains with stage specific reporter gene expression.	Progress in transfection of Eimeria sporozoites leads to transformed oocysts, however the output of mutants after passages in the host animals is low. Further enrichment of transgenic oocysts was dependent on fluorescent activated cell sorting and could not be achieved by drug selection. In this study, we fused the Toxoplasma gondii DHFR-TSm2m3 pyrimethamine resistance gene with the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) encoding sequence to provide continuous pyrimethamine resistance and fluorescence in the Eimeria parasite from a single transcript. The permanent YFP signal of transgenic parasites allows differentiating transgenic parasites from wild type parasites throughout the entire life cycle. The output of transformed oocysts increased up to more than 30% after initial transfection and completion of the life cycle in the host animal. Within three passages under pyrimethamine treatment, a strain with 100% transformed sporulated oocysts of the parasite could be isolated. This new method provides the potential to produce and monitor transgenic Eimeria strains without additional fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). The chimeric fluorescent reporter can be utilized as a continuous internal control for plasmids containing stage specific promoter. By this means we utilized an Eimeria tenella gamogony gene specific regulatory sequence to confer macrogamont specific tandem dimer tomato (tdtomato) reporter gene expression in Eimeria nieschulzi.
Protective effect of a prime-boost strategy with plasmid DNA followed by recombinant adenovirus expressing TgAMA1 as vaccines against Toxoplasma gondii infection in mice.	A heterologous prime-boost strategy with priming plasmid DNA followed by recombinant virus expressing relevant antigens is known to stimulate protective immunity against intracellular parasites. In this study, we have evaluated a heterologous prime-boost strategy for immunizing mice against Toxoplasma gondii infection. Our results revealed that the prime-boost strategy using both plasmid DNA and adenoviral vector encoding TgAMA1 may stimulate both humoral and Th1/Th2 cellular immune responses specific for TgAMA1. Moreover, C57BL/6 mice immunized with the pAMA1/Ad5Null, pNull/Ad5AMA1, and pAMA1/Ad5AMA1 constructs showed survival rates of 12.5%, 37.5%, and 50%, respectively. In contrast, all the pNull/Ad5Null immunized mice died after infection with the PLK-GFP strain of T. gondii. Brain cyst burden was reduced by 23% in mice immunized with pAMA1/Ad5AMA1 compared with the pNull/Ad5AMA1 immunized mice. These results demonstrate that the heterologous DNA priming and recombinant adenovirus boost strategy may provide protective immunity against T. gondii infection.
Triplex PCR using new primers for the detection of Toxoplasma gondii.	Molecular methods are used increasingly for the detection of Toxoplasma gondii infection. This study developed a rapid, sensitive, and specific conventional triplex PCR for the detection of the B1 gene and ITS1 region of T. gondii using newly designed primers and an internal control based on the Vibrio cholerae HemM gene. The annealing temperature and concentrations of the primers, MgCl(2), and dNTPs were optimized. Two sets of primers (set 1 and 2) were tested, which contained different segments of the T. gondii B1 gene, 529 repeat region and ITS1 region. A series of sensitivity tests were performed using parasite DNA, whole parasites, and spiked human body fluids. Specificity tests were performed using DNA from common protozoa and bacteria. The newly developed assay based on set 2 primers was found to be specific and sensitive. The test was capable of detecting as little as 10 pg T. gondii DNA, 10(4) tachyzoites in spiked body fluids, and T. gondii DNA in the organ tissues of experimentally infected mice. The assay developed in this study will be useful for the laboratory detection of T. gondii infection.
Kinetics of parasite burdens in blood and tissues during murine toxoplasmosis.	A sensitive real-time PCR technique was used to examine the distribution of Toxoplasma gondii in the blood and tissues of mice during acute and chronic infection. Groups of Swiss Albino mice, inoculated i.p. with 10(2) or 10(6) tachyzoites of the RH strain as a typical type-1 strain, or fed 10 cysts of the Me49 strain as a typical type-2 strain, were killed at different time points post-infection (p.i.), and blood and organs including the lungs, brain and liver were harvested for DNA extraction. Toxoplasma DNA was quantified by a real-time PCR targeted at the 529bp gene fragment, with a detection limit of a single parasite per g/ml of tissue. The results showed a strain- and dose-dependent spread of Toxoplasma. In infection with type-1 parasites, in case of a high infective dose, Toxoplasma DNA was detected within 24h p.i. in all analyzed tissues including the brain. Conversely, in case of a low infective dose, parasitaemia was undetectable early p.i., at a time when Toxoplasma DNA was detected in the tissues, but reached very high levels as infection progressed. With both infective doses, pre-death parasite burdens were higher in the blood than in the tissues, whereas the same loads in the lungs suggest that reaching these Toxoplasma burdens may be critical for survival. In infection with Me49 parasites, steady high parasite burdens were noted up to the end of the experiment at d42 only in the brain, parasitaemia was low but detectable throughout, and Toxoplasma DNA was completely cleared only from the liver. These data are important to better understand the pathogenesis of toxoplasmosis, and also as baseline data for the experimental evaluation of novel chemotherapeutics.
Molecular diagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii in pregnant women.	Novel approaches in the diagnostics of T. gondii have enabled a detection of the parasite in the amniotic fluid or blood of pregnant women.
Protective efficacy of a Toxoplasma gondii rhoptry protein 13 plasmid DNA vaccine in mice.	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite infecting humans and other warm-blooded animals, resulting in serious public health problems and economic losses worldwide. Rhoptries are involved in T. gondii invasion and host cell interaction and have been implicated as important virulence factors. In the present study, a DNA vaccine expressing rhoptry protein 13 (ROP13) of T. gondii inserted into eukaryotic expression vector pVAX I was constructed, and the immune protection it induced in Kunming mice was evaluated. Kunming mice were immunized intramuscularly with pVAX-ROP13 and/or with interleukin-18 (IL-18). Then, we evaluated the immune response using a lymphoproliferative assay, cytokine and antibody measurements, and the survival times of mice challenged with the virulent T. gondii RH strain (type I) and the cyst-forming PRU strain (type II). The results showed that pVAX-ROP13 alone or with pVAX/IL-18 induced a high level of specific anti-T. gondii antibodies and specific lymphocyte proliferative responses. Coinjection of pVAX/IL-18 significantly increased the production of gamma interferon (IFN-γ), IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10. Further, challenge experiments showed that coimmunization of pVAX-ROP13 with pVAX/IL-18 significantly (P < 0.05) increased survival time (32.3 ± 2.7 days) compared with pVAX-ROP13 alone (24.9 ± 2.3 days). Immunized mice challenged with T. gondii cysts (strain PRU) had a significant reduction in the number of brain cysts, suggesting that ROP13 could trigger a strong humoral and cellular response against T. gondii cyst infection and that it is a potential vaccine candidate against toxoplasmosis, which provided the foundation for further development of effective vaccines against T. gondii.
Toxoplasma gondii: bioinformatics analysis, cloning and expression of a novel protein TgIMP1.	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite, infecting a large variety of animals and human beings. In recent years, the study of DNA vaccine against T. gondii has made a great progress; however, few vaccines have completely controlled toxoplasmosis. Thus people started to look for more effective antigenic proteins. Here we report a novel T. gondii protein termed immune mapped protein 1 (TgIMP1). We used multiple bioinformatics approaches to predict the physical and chemical characters, signal peptide, transmembrane domain, epitope, topological structure and function of the protein, and we theoretically determined that the TgIMP1 has multiple epitopes, and with immunogenicity, suggesting that the TgIMP1 may be a vaccine candidate against toxoplasmosis. Then the gene coding TgIMP1 was obtained by PCR and connected with cloning vector. Recombinant plasmid was identified by PCR, double digestion and sequencing analysis. Then the TgIMP1 gene was directly inserted into the eukaryotic expression vector pBudCE4.1, so that the recombinant eukaryotic expression plasmid pBudCE4.1-TgIMP1 was constructed. After identification by PCR and restriction enzyme digestion, the recombinant plasmid pBudCE4.1-TgIMP1 was transfected into cells of HFF, and then identified by RT-PCR. The results showed that the eukaryotic expression plasmid pBudCE4.1-TgIMP1 was constructed and was transfected to the HFF cells successfully.
Toxoplasma histone acetylation remodelers as novel drug targets.	Toxoplasma gondii is a leading cause of neurological birth defects and a serious opportunistic pathogen. The authors and others have found that Toxoplasma uses a unique nucleosome composition supporting a fine gene regulation together with other factors. Post-translational modifications in histones facilitate the establishment of a global chromatin environment and orchestrate DNA-related biological processes. Histone acetylation is one of the most prominent post-translational modifications inﬂuencing gene expression. Histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases have been intensively studied as potential drug targets. In particular, histone deacetylase inhibitors have activity against apicomplexan parasites, underscoring their potential as a new class of antiparasitic compounds. In this review, we summarize what is known about Toxoplasma histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases, and discuss the inhibitors studied to date. Finally, the authors discuss the distinct possibility that the unique nucleosome composition of Toxoplasma, which harbors a nonconserved H2Bv variant histone, might be targeted in novel therapeutics directed against this parasite.
PCR-RFLP/Hsp70 for identification and tipification of leishmania from the tropical region]	The optimization of the PCR conditions for amplification of the gene coding for the 70 kDa (HSp70) heat shock protein as well as the analysis of the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) were carried out. DNA from a reference strain of Leishmania mexicana was used as template. Analytical sensitivity and specificity, and reproducibility of PCR using DNA from L. mexicana, Lamazonensis, L. guyanensis and L. lainsoni were determined. A 1.3 kp band was obtained, which confirmed gene amplification. The band patterns derived from Haelll enzyme digestion allowed differentiating several species. L. guyanensis and L. lainsoni were different from each other, while L. mexicana and L. amazonensis, which shared a common pattern, were different from the other two species. Analytical sensitivity and specificity were adequate. The enzymatic restriction of the PCR product made it possible to differentiate Leishmania spp. from T. cruzi. The feasibility of identifying and typifying species from the American continent through PCR-RFLP/Hsp70 and of using enzymatic restriction of amplified product to distinguish Leishmania spp. from Trypanosornma cruzi was shown. This was the first step in implementing these molecular methods in the reference laboratory of the Institute.
The Toxoplasma gondii centrosome is the platform for internal daughter budding as revealed by a Nek1 kinase mutant.	The pathology and severity of toxoplasmosis results from the rapid replication cycle of the apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. The tachyzoites divide asexually through endodyogeny, wherein two daughter cells bud inside the mother cell. Before mitosis is completed, the daughter buds form around the duplicated centrosomes and subsequently elongate to serve as the scaffold for organellogenesis and organelle partitioning. The molecular control mechanism of this process is poorly understood. Here, we characterized a T. gondii NIMA-related kinase (Nek) ortholog that was identified in a chemical mutagenesis screen. A temperature-sensitive mutant, V-A15, possesses a Cys316Arg mutation in TgNek1 (a novel mutant allele in Neks), which is responsible for growth defects at the restrictive temperature. Phenotypic analysis of V-A15 indicated that TgNek1 is essential for centrosome splitting, proper formation of daughter cells and faithful segregation of genetic material. In vitro kinase assays showed that the mutation abolishes the kinase activity of TgNek1. TgNek1 is recruited to the centrosome prior to its duplication and localizes on the duplicated centrosomes facing the spindle poles in a cell-cycle-dependent manner. Mutational analysis of the activation loop suggests that localization and activity are spatio-temporally regulated by differential phosphorylation. Collectively, our results identified a novel temperature-sensitive allele for a Nek kinase and highlight its essential function in centrosome splitting in Toxoplasma. Moreover, these results conclusively show for the first time that Toxoplasma bud assembly is facilitated by the centrosome because defective centrosome splitting results in single daughter cell budding. 
Toxoplasma transcription factor TgAP2XI-5 regulates the expression of genes involved in parasite virulence and host invasion.	Gene regulation in apicomplexan parasites, a phylum containing important protozoan parasites such as Plasmodium and Toxoplasma, is poorly understood. The life cycle of Toxoplasma gondii is complex, with multiple proliferation and differentiation steps, of which tachyzoite proliferation is the most relevant to pathogenesis in humans and animals. Tachyzoites express invasion and virulence factors that are crucial for their survival and manipulation of host cell functions. The expression of those factors is tightly controlled during the tachyzoite cell cycle to permit their correct packaging in newly formed apical secretory organelles named micronemes and rhoptries in the daughter cells. However, little is known about the factors that control the expression of genes encoding the virulence factors present in these parasite-specific secretory organelles. We report that the plant-like nuclear factor TgAP2XI-5 targets more than 300 gene promoters and actively controls the transcription of these genes. Most of these target genes, including those that are essential for parasite virulence, showed a peak of expression in the S and M phases of the cell cycle. Furthermore, we identified the cis-regulatory element recognized by TgAP2XI-5 and demonstrated its ability to actively drive gene transcription. Our results demonstrated that TgAP2XI-5 is a novel DNA sequence-specific transcription factor associated with promoter activation. TgAP2XI-5 may regulate gene transcription of crucial virulence factors in T. gondii. 
Identification of novel B cell epitopes within Toxoplasma gondii GRA1.	Newly synthesized epitopes are one of the most promising antigens for the development of diagnostic kits and peptide vaccines. Very little is known about the B cell epitopes on GRA1 of Toxoplasma gondii, which are recognized by the humoral immune response in pigs. In this study, epitopes derived from GRA1 of T. gondii were identified using synthetic peptide techniques and bioinformatics. Three (PG10, PG13 and PG18) out of the eighteen peptides tested were recognized by all pig sera from different time points after infection, and the other peptides were recognized by select sera from various time points after infection. Our data indicate that many regions of GRA1, and in particular, the regions represented by the peptides PG10, PG13 and PG18, are involved in the pig antibody response. The identification of specific epitopes targeted by the host antibody response is important both for understanding the natural response to infection and for the development of epitope-based marker vaccines and diagnostic tools for toxoplasmosis. 
Reciprocal virulence and resistance polymorphism in the relationship between Toxoplasma gondii and the house mouse.	Virulence in the ubiquitous intracellular protozoon Toxoplasma gondii for its natural intermediate host, the mouse, appears paradoxical from an evolutionary standpoint because death of the mouse before encystment interrupts the parasite life cycle. Virulent T. gondii strains secrete kinases and pseudokinases that inactivate the immunity-related GTPases (IRG proteins) responsible for mouse resistance to avirulent strains. Such considerations stimulated a search for IRG alleles unknown in laboratory mice that might confer resistance to virulent strains of T. gondii. We report that the mouse IRG system shows extraordinary polymorphic complexity in the wild. We describe an IRG haplotype from a wild-derived mouse strain that confers resistance against virulent parasites by interference with the virulent kinase complex. In such hosts virulent strains can encyst, hinting at an explanation for the evolution of virulence polymorphism in T. gondii. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01298.001. 
Immune to defeat.	A dramatic example of the 'arms race' between hosts and pathogens has been observed in the response of mice to the parasite that causes toxoplasmosis. 
Toxoplasma development - turn the switch on or off?	Toxoplasma gondii exhibits a complex, multi-stage life cycle in which the need for parasite expansion is balanced with the production of transmissible forms. For human disease the key developmental switch is from the tachyzoite to the mature bradyzoite, which is not well understood at the molecular level. This review highlights the role of the tachyzoite in regulating the initiation of bradyzoite differentiation through newly discovered transcription factors of the ApiAP2 family that must be turned off for development to unfold. Exit from the tachyzoite cell cycle is also tightly co-ordinated with the induction of bradyzoite gene expression, which is strongly influenced by the host cell environment. New evidence suggests a parasite casein kinase II and host anti-growth factor CDA1 can influence specific pathways that are responsible for sensing the host cell environment and informing the parasites decision to continue replication or to develop into bradyzoites. These results indicate tachyzoite gene expression mechanisms and signal transduction pathways likely hold the keys to tissue cyst formation in Toxoplasma. 
Toxoplasma gondii genotypes isolated from pregnant women with follow-up of infected children in southern Brazil.	Toxoplasma gondii populations that perpetuate in South America's natural ecosystems display broad genetic diversity, but the impact of this diversity on humans is generally unknown. In this short communication, we depict the genotypic traits of four isolates related to congenital parasitism as it emerges in Southern Brazil.
Biochemical and functional characterization of CpMuc4, a Cryptosporidium surface antigen that binds to host epithelial cells.	Cryptosporidium spp. are intracellular apicomplexan parasites that cause outbreaks of waterborne diarrheal disease worldwide. Previous studies had identified a Cryptosporidium parvum sporozoite antigen, CpMuc4, that appeared to be involved in attachment and invasion of the parasite into intestinal epithelial cells. CpMuc4 is predicted to be O- and N-glycosylated and the antigen exhibits an apparent molecular weight 10kDa larger than the antigen expressed in Escherichia coli, indicative of post-translational modifications. However, lectin blotting and enzymatic and chemical deglycosylation did not identify any glycans on the native antigen. Expression of CpMuc4 in Toxoplasma gondii produced a recombinant protein of a similar molecular weight to the native antigen. Both purified native CpMuc4 and T. gondii recombinant CpMuc4, but not CpMuc4 expressed in E. coli, bind to fixed Caco-2A cells in a dose dependent and saturable manner, suggesting that this antigen bears epitopes that bind to a host cell receptor, and that the T. gondii recombinant CpMuc4 functionally mimics the native antigen. Binding of native CpMuc4 to Caco2A cells could not be inhibited with excess CpMuc4 peptide, or an excess of E. coli recombinant CpMuc4. These data suggest that CpMuc4 interacts directly with a host cell receptor and that post-translational modifications are necessary for the antigen to bind to the host cell receptor. T. gondii recombinant CpMuc4 may mimic the native antigen well enough to serve as a useful tool for identifying the host cell receptor and determining the role of native CpMuc4 in host cell invasion. 
Genetic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii from cats in Yunnan Province, Southwestern China.	Cats are the definitive hosts of Toxoplasma gondii. The distribution of genetic diversity of T. gondii in cats is of importance to understand the transmission of this parasite. The objective of this study was to genetically characterize T. gondii isolates from cats in Yunnan province, southwestern China.
The apical complex provides a regulated gateway for secretion of invasion factors in Toxoplasma.	The apical complex is the definitive cell structure of phylum Apicomplexa, and is the focus of the events of host cell penetration and the establishment of intracellular parasitism. Despite the importance of this structure, its molecular composition is relatively poorly known and few studies have experimentally tested its functions. We have characterized a novel Toxoplasma gondii protein, RNG2, that is located at the apical polar ring--the common structural element of apical complexes. During cell division, RNG2 is first recruited to centrosomes immediately after their duplication, confirming that assembly of the new apical complex commences as one of the earliest events of cell replication. RNG2 subsequently forms a ring, with the carboxy- and amino-termini anchored to the apical polar ring and mobile conoid, respectively, linking these two structures. Super-resolution microscopy resolves these two termini, and reveals that RNG2 orientation flips during invasion when the conoid is extruded. Inducible knockdown of RNG2 strongly inhibits host cell invasion. Consistent with this, secretion of micronemes is prevented in the absence of RNG2. This block, however, can be fully or partially overcome by exogenous stimulation of calcium or cGMP signaling pathways, respectively, implicating the apical complex directly in these signaling events. RNG2 demonstrates for the first time a role for the apical complex in controlling secretion of invasion factors in this important group of parasites.
Four cases of fatal toxoplasmosis in three species of endemic New Zealand birds.	Four cases of fatal toxoplasmosis in three endemic New Zealand avian species are reported. Between 2009 and 2012, two kereru (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae), one North Island brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli), and one North Island kaka (Nestor meridionalis) were submitted for necropsy examination. On gross postmortem, the kiwi had marked hepatosplenomegaly while the kaka and two kereru had swollen, slightly firm, deep-red lungs. Histologically there was extensive hepatocellular necrosis in the liver of the kiwi while the kaka and kereru showed severe fibrinous bronchointerstitial pneumonia. In the kiwi, protozoal organisms were present within both hepatocytes and Kupffer cells of the liver and within the epithelial cells and macrophages of the interstitium of the lungs in the kaka and two kereru. The diagnosis of toxoplasmosis was confirmed with immunohistochemistry and PCR of paraffin-embedded formalin-fixed tissue of the liver, lungs, or both. Genotyping of up to seven markers revealed that an atypical Type II isolate of Toxoplasma gondii was present in at least three of the cases. This study provides evidence that T. gondii can cause mortality in these endemic species and suggests further research is needed to determine the full extent of morbidity and mortality caused by this parasite in New Zealand's unique avifauna.
Isolation of a potential DNA probe for Toxoplasma gondii.	A genomic DNA library for Toxoplasma gondii has been constructed in plasmid pUC8. Some recombinant plasmids (pJMBG1-pJMBG55) were analysed by restriction endonuclease mapping and by hybridization to DNA isolated from T. gondii and from human tissue culture cells. A number of recombinant plasmids, or DNA fragments derived from these, hybridizing only to Toxoplasma DNA have been identified. These are currently being characterized for the development of diagnostic DNA probes for Toxoplasma.
Direct and sensitive detection of a pathogenic protozoan, Toxoplasma gondii, by polymerase chain reaction.	We applied the polymerase chain reaction to detection of the pathogenic protozoan Toxoplasma gondii based on our identification of a 35-fold-repetitive gene (the B1 gene) as a target. Using this procedure, we were able to amplify and detect the DNA of a single organism directly from a crude cell lysate. This level of sensitivity also allowed us to detect the B1 gene from purified DNA samples containing as few as 10 parasites in the presence of 100,000 human leukocytes. This is representative of the maximal cellular infiltration (10(5)/ml) in 1 ml of cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with toxoplasmic encephalitis. The B1 gene is present and conserved in all six T. gondii strains tested to date, including two isolates from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. No signal was detected by using this assay and DNAs from a variety of other organisms, including several which might be found in the central nervous system of an immunocompromised host. This combination of sensitivity and specificity should make detection of the B1 gene based on polymerase chain reaction amplification a very useful method for diagnosis of toxoplasmosis both in immunocompromised hosts and in congenitally infected fetuses.
Toxoplasma gondii and Hammondia hammondi: DNA comparison using cloned rRNA gene probes.	A mung bean nuclease genomic library of purified DNA from tachyzoites of the RH strain of Toxoplasma gondii was prepared in the bacteriophage lambda gtll and recombinants containing rRNA gene fragments were detected by hybridization with radiolabeled total RNA from the closely related coccidian Eimeria acervulina. Ten recombinants were chosen at random, and five of these were investigated further using probes for the genes of the large and small rRNA of Plasmodium berghei. An insert (called TG4) that hybridized only to the 3' end of the large rRNA coding region of P. berghei and an insert (called TG18) that hybridized only to the small rRNA coding region of P. berghei were purified by electrophoresis in low melting point agarose. Radiolabeled E. acervulina total RNA, TG4, and TG18, were then used to compare the sizes of the large and small rRNA gene fragments after DNA extracted from three strains of T. gondii, and the type strain of the closely related coccidian Hammondia hammondi were cut by one of a series of 10 restriction endonucleases. The patterns obtained for the three T. gondii isolates were identical to those obtained for H. hammondi, for each enzyme tested. In addition, the guanine plus cytosine (G + C) content of H. hammondi DNA was found to be almost identical to that obtained previously for T. gondii DNA.
Toxoplasma gondii comprises three clonal lineages: correlation of parasite genotype with human disease.	The population genetic structure of Toxoplasma gondii was determined by multilocus restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis at 6 loci in 106 independent isolates from humans and animals. Phylogenetic and statistical analyses indicated a highly unusual population structure consisting of 3 widespread clonal lineages. Extensively mixed genotypes were only apparent in 4 strains, which indicated that, while not separate species, sexual recombination between the 3 lineages is exceedingly rare in natural populations. T. gondii is a major cause of subclinical human infection and an important opportunistic pathogen that causes severe disease in immunocompromised patients. While strains from all 3 lineages were isolated from humans, the majority of human toxoplasmosis cases were associated with strains of a type II genotype. The correlation of specific clonal lineages with human toxoplasmosis has important implications for development of vaccines, drug treatments, and diagnostic protocols.
Cloning of a cDNA encoding the dense granule protein GRA3 from Toxoplasma gondii.	GRA3 is a 30-kDa protein located inside the dense granules of Toxoplasma gondii. Following invasion and exocytosis of dense granules within the parasitophorous vacuole, GRA3 becomes associated with the parasitophorous vacuolar membrane (PVM) and extensions of the PVM which protrude into the cytoplasm. A partial cDNA encoding GRA3 was isolated from a Toxoplasma gondii expression library using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to the mature GRA3 protein of tachyzoites. Antibodies affinity purified using the cloned fusion protein reacted with a 30-kDa band on immunoblots and recognized dense granules, the PVM, and PVM extensions by immunofluorescence staining of infected cells. Northern blot analysis indicated the major transcript was of a slightly larger size, and the complete cDNA encoding GRA3 was subsequently obtained. Southern blot analysis suggests that GRA3 is present as a single copy. The cDNA encodes two methionines at the N-terminus followed by an open reading frame with a hydrophobic region of 22 amino acids flanked by charged residues consistent with a signal sequence. Four shorter hydrophobic regions occur but are insufficient to span the membrane. No significant homology was detected to other proteins, including other dense granule proteins. In vitro translation of RNA generated from the cDNA containing either one or two of the N-terminal methionines yielded peptides with apparent M(r) of 35,000 and 37,000 respectively. Translation of RNA from the cDNA containing only the second initiation site in the presence of dog pancreas microsomes resulted in reduction of 4 kDa, sufficient to account for removal of the putative signal sequence.
Polymerase chain reaction for Toxoplasma gondii DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid of AIDS patients with focal brain lesions.	To study the accuracy of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Toxoplasma gondii DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AIDS patients for the diagnosis of T. gondii encephalitis.
Two alleles of the gene encoding surface antigen P22 in 25 strains of Toxoplasma gondii.	A group of 25 strains of Toxoplasma gondii (4 mouse-virulent strains and 21 mouse-avirulent strains) were tested by immunoblot with 4 monoclonal antibodies (MAb) against surface antigen P22. Parasite lysates from only 12 strains were recognized by all 4 MAbs, while lysates from the remaining 13 strains (all avirulent) were not recognized by any of the 4 MAbs. Strains not recognized by the 4 MAbs were found to express an altered form of the P22 antigen. Sequencing of the P22 genes from 10 strains revealed only 2 alleles. One allele is identical to the gene from the virulent RH strain. The second allele carries 5 single nucleotide substitutions and an insertion of a GGT triplet when compared to the allele from the RH strain. Four of the 5 nucleotide changes result in amino acid substitutions and the triplet insertion results in an extra glycine residue. Four of the single base changes also result in restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP). RFLP analysis of the P22 gene revealed only 2 patterns among the 25 strains. The allele of the P22 gene correlated with reactivity of the 4 MAbs to lysates of each strain. However, the allele of the P22 gene did not correlate with the virulence of each strain for mice.
Phylogeny of the large extrachromosomal DNA of organisms in the phylum Apicomplexa.	Organisms in the phylum Apicomplexa appear to have a large extrachromosomal DNA which is unrelated to the mitochondrial DNA. Based on the apparent gene content of the large (35 kb) extrachromosomal DNA of Plasmodium falciparum, it has been suggested that it is a plastid-like DNA, which may be related to the plastid DNA of rhodophytes. However, phylogenetic analyses have been inconclusive. It has been suggested that this is due to the unusually high A+T content of the Plasmodium falciparum large extrachromosomal DNA. To further investigate the evolution of the apicomplexan large extrachromosomal DNA, the DNA sequence of the organellar ribosomal RNA gene from Toxoplasma gondii, was determined. The Toxoplasma gondii rDNA sequence was most similar to the large extrachromosomal rDNA of Plasmodium falciparum, but was much less A+T rich. Phylogenetic analyses were carried out using the LogDet transformation to minimize the impact of nucleotide bias. These studies support the evolutionary relatedness of the Toxoplasma gondii rDNA with the large extrachromosomal rDNA of Plasmodium falciparum and with the organellar rDNA of another parasite in the phylum Apicomplexa, Babesia bovis. These analyses also suggest that the apicomplexan large extrachromosomal DNA may be more closely related to the plastid DNA of euglenoids than those of rhodophytes.
Prolonged isolated fever due to attenuated extracerebral toxoplasmosis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus who are receiving trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as prophylaxis.	We report two cases of prolonged fever in deeply immunocompromised patients with AIDS who had been receiving trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) as primary prophylaxis for several months. Investigations of the cause of fever yielded normal or negative findings except that the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Toxoplasma gondii in the blood was positive in both cases, and PCR of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was positive in one case. After a few days of treatment with pyrimethamine plus clindamycin, the two patients became afebrile and the T. gondii PCR became negative. The patients probably had disseminated toxoplasmosis attenuated by TMP-SMZ. PCR examination of blood for evidence of T. gondii genome may be useful in screening for causes of unexplained fever in patients with AIDS, even those who receive prophylaxis with TMP-SMZ.
Serologic and polymerase chain reaction analysis of intraocular fluids in the diagnosis of infectious uveitis.	Infectious uveitis entities are usually rapidly progressive blinding diseases that can be prevented by prompt administration of specific antimicrobial therapy. With the aim of improving early diagnosis in patients with infectious uveitis, intraocular fluid samples from patients with sight-threatening posterior uveitis were investigated to determine the causative agent.
Molecular genetic strategies in Toxoplasma gondii: close in on a successful invader.	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite with an exceptional ability to invade, survive and replicate within nearly all nucleated cells. Upon differentiation into an encysted form (bradyzoites), the parasites escape the host immune defenses and thus persist long enough in man and other hosts to ensure maintenance of transmission. This protozoan parasite has long been known to cause severe congenital infections in humans and animals but has recently gained additional notoriety as an opportunistic pathogen associated with AIDS. Development of a DNA transfection system for T. gondii has provided a new tool for exploring molecular aspects of important processes such as invasion and differentiation. Additional strategies associated with genetic transformation have been devised and elaboration of even more desirable molecular tools is in progress.
Cryopreservation of an attenuated vaccine strain of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii.	Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite that infects birds and mammals, including humans. T. gondii T-263 is an attenuated mutant strain that is being developed as a live vaccine to protect cats from shedding oocysts. A cryopreservation procedure for T. gondii T-263 bradyzoites has been developed to meet the requirement for product stability. A Me2SO-based procedure for the cryopreservation of tachyzoites was used as a basis for process optimization. A modified cell culture plaque assay was used to determine the effects of selected cryobiological parameters on bradyzoite viability. The major parameters evaluated were: (i) cooling rates; (ii) intermediate plunge temperature; and (iii) thawing and dilution rates and temperatures. The optimized cryopreservation protocol comprised incubation in 12.5% Me2SO and 4% BSA for 30 min at room temperature, cooling at 1 degree C min-1 to -40 degrees C, followed by direct transfer into liquid nitrogen. Rapid thawing (approximately 120 degrees C min-1) followed by slow dilution of cryoprotectant over 15 min resulted in the highest survival. The optimized procedure increased survival 10,000-fold over that obtained using an established tachyzoite protocol. This procedure is to be adapted for the large-scale cryopreservation of T. gondii T-263 bradyzoites in individual vaccine doses.
Toxoplasma gondii expressed sequence tags: insight into tachyzoite gene expression.	Analysis of DNA sequences from the 5' end of 239 directionally cloned Toxoplasma gondii RH strain tachyzoite-derived cDNAs revealed significant similarity to several classes of genes/proteins including 24 ribosomal proteins, five metabolic enzymes, four cell-cycle regulators and 15 previously cloned T. gondii genes. The remaining sequences with no significant match include several which were recovered more than once. The variety and redundancy of expressed sequence tags (ESTs GenBank accession numbers T62239-T62475) in this sample suggest that the tachyzoite cDNA library reflects tachyzoite gene expression. A large scale EST effort should uncover many new genes and provide a wealth of information about genes involved with the growth and proliferation of tachyzoites.
Nuclear-encoded proteins target to the plastid in Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum.	A vestigial, nonphotosynthetic plastid has been identified recently in protozoan parasites of the phylum Apicomplexa. The apicomplexan plastid, or "apicoplast," is indispensable, but the complete sequence of both the Plasmodium falciparum and Toxoplasma gondii apicoplast genomes has offered no clue as to what essential metabolic function(s) this organelle might perform in parasites. To investigate possible functions of the apicoplast, we sought to identify nuclear-encoded genes whose products are targeted to the apicoplast in Plasmodium and Toxoplasma. We describe here nuclear genes encoding ribosomal proteins S9 and L28 and the fatty acid biosynthetic enzymes acyl carrier protein (ACP), beta-ketoacyl-ACP synthase III (FabH), and beta-hydroxyacyl-ACP dehydratase (FabZ). These genes show high similarity to plastid homologues, and immunolocalization of S9 and ACP verifies that the proteins accumulate in the plastid. All the putatively apicoplast-targeted proteins bear N-terminal presequences consistent with plastid targeting, and the ACP presequence is shown to be sufficient to target a recombinant green fluorescent protein reporter to the apicoplast in transgenic T. gondii. Localization of ACP, and very probably FabH and FabZ, in the apicoplast implicates fatty acid biosynthesis as a likely function of the apicoplast. Moreover, inhibition of P. falciparum growth by thiolactomycin, an inhibitor of FabH, indicates a vital role for apicoplast fatty acid biosynthesis. Because the fatty acid biosynthesis genes identified here are of a plastid/bacterial type, and distinct from those of the equivalent pathway in animals, fatty acid biosynthesis is potentially an excellent target for therapeutics directed against malaria, toxoplasmosis, and other apicomplexan-mediated diseases.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism and virulence of Czech Toxoplasma gondii strains.	Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of chromosomal DNA from 22 strains of Toxoplasma gondii were characterised using SalI and PstI restriction endonucleases and the TGR1E specific repetitive sequence as a probe. Two virulent strains, RH and P-CZ, had previously been isolated from humans, the remaining 20 strains were isolated from animals in the Czech Republic in 1994 and 1995. Among the 20 recently isolated strains, 19 belonged to an avirulent lineage and only one strain from the wild cat Felis silvestris belonged to a virulent lineage.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii in 94 placentae from infected women by polymerase chain reaction, in vivo, and in vitro cultures.	The biological diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis at birth is important to determine the infant's treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the placenta results in the congenital toxoplasmosis diagnosis and to compare them with those obtained with other samples collected at birth (cord blood and newborn blood). A total of 94 placentas, of which 33 came from fetuses suspected of or with proven congenital toxoplasmosis (CT+) and 61 from definitely or probably non-infected fetuses (CT-), was analysed by in vitro culture, mouse inoculation and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR sensitivity was higher (60.9 per cent) than that of cell culture (29.6 per cent) and mouse inoculation (51.5 per cent) but the number of PCR positive results in CT - patients was also higher (9.5 per cent). The presence of Toxoplasma gondii in the placenta tissues was the only argument at birth (IgM and neosynthesized Ig were negative) in three out of the 33 CT+ cases. The detection of IgM by ELISA and ISAGA and the detection of neosynthesized Ig by immunoblotting were more satisfactory to diagnose congenital toxoplasmosis but the placenta analysis was important to improve the sensitivity of the diagnosis at birth, especially when the prenatal diagnosis was negative or not performed.
Plastids are widespread and ancient in parasites of the phylum Apicomplexa.	Current evidence supports the presence of a non-photosynthetic chloroplast-like organelle in several apicomplexan parasites, including Plasmodium falciparum and Toxoplasma gondii. This apicomplexan organelle, referred to here as the "plastid", may have been acquired through a primary or secondary endosymbiosis of a photosynthetic organism. Alternatively, apicomplexan plastids may have been acquired through several independent endosymbiotic events, as appears to be the case for the acquisition of chloroplasts by dinoflagellates. The likelihood of multiple origins of an apicomplexan plastid is enhanced by the close evolutionary relatedness of apicomplexan and dinoflagellate taxa. In this study, we have tested the hypothesis that apicomplexan plastids are derived from a single ancient ancestor. Two lines of evidence supporting this hypothesis are presented. First, this study supports the widespread presence of plastid DNA in apicomplexan species. Second, the topologies of the phylogenetic trees derived from plastid and nuclear-encoded rRNA gene sequences suggest the co-evolution of the DNAs localised in these two compartments. Taken together, these data support a single ancient lineage for the plastids of parasites in the phylum Apicomplexa.
Processing of Toxoplasma ROP1 protein in nascent rhoptries.	Secretion in the obligate intracellular parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, occurs through a number of regulated compartments. Among these are the apical organelles known as rhoptries which release their contents as part of the invasion process. We are interested in the processing, targeting and ultimate function of rhoptry proteins (and have focused our analyses on rhoptry protein 1 (ROP1). In this paper, we address the issue of processing: using a number of engineered forms of the ROP1 gene (introduced into a ROP1- background), we show that ROP1 is synthesized as a pre-pro-protein that is subject to proteolytic cleavages to remove the pre-sequence and the 'pro' region, at the N-terminus. Using brefeldin A (BFA) and reduced temperature we show that this processing occurs late in the secretory pathway of the parasite. Immunolocalization studies with epitope-tagged constructs indicate that processing is apparently occurring in the nascent rhoptries of dividing parasites. The results are discussed in the context of the targeting and possible function of the ROP1 protein.
Analysis of immunoregulatory cytokines in ocular fluid samples from patients with uveitis.	To investigate the T-helper cell cytokine profiles in two well-defined clinical uveitis entities caused by an infectious mechanism.
