Interaction of Rio1 kinase with toyocamycin reveals a conformational switch that controls oligomeric state and catalytic activity.	Rio1 kinase is an essential ribosome-processing factor required for proper maturation of 40 S ribosomal subunit. Although its structure is known, several questions regarding its functional remain to be addressed. We report that both Archaeoglobus fulgidus and human Rio1 bind more tightly to an adenosine analog, toyocamycin, than to ATP. Toyocamycin has antibiotic, antiviral and cytotoxic properties, and is known to inhibit ribosome biogenesis, specifically the maturation of 40 S. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of toyocamycin bound to Rio1 at 2.0 Å and demonstrated that toyocamycin binds in the ATP binding pocket of the protein. Despite this, measured steady state kinetics were inconsistent with strict competitive inhibition by toyocamycin. In analyzing this interaction, we discovered that Rio1 is capable of accessing multiple distinct oligomeric states and that toyocamycin may inhibit Rio1 by stabilizing a less catalytically active oligomer. We also present evidence of substrate inhibition by high concentrations of ATP for both archaeal and human Rio1. Oligomeric state studies show both proteins access a higher order oligomeric state in the presence of ATP. The study revealed that autophosphorylation by Rio1 reduces oligomer formation and promotes monomerization, resulting in the most active species. Taken together, these results suggest the activity of Rio1 may be modulated by regulating its oligomerization properties in a conserved mechanism, identifies the first ribosome processing target of toyocamycin and presents the first small molecule inhibitor of Rio1 kinase activity.
Regulation of rRNA synthesis and processing in animal cells. Effect of nucleoside analogues.	The nucleoside analogues fluorouridine and fluorodeoxyuridine (both at 100 muM) and 8-azaguanine (at 500 muM) inhibit both rRNA transcription and processing in Ehrlich ascites cells. In BHK21 cells fluorodeoxyuridine has no effect on either rRNA maturation or transcription, whereas toyocamycin (at 2 microM) inhibits both processes in BHK21 cells and Ehrlich ascites cells. The drugs inhibit transcription in cells incubated in the complete medium, but have no effect on the decreased transcription in cells incubated in a medium without amino acids. This lack of effect cannot be explained by an altered uptake of the drugs in the amino acid-starved cells, since maturation of the rRNA precursor is affected in cells incubated in media with or without amino acids. The effect of the drugs on rRNA transcription is not the consequence of the inhibition of protein synthesis. The results lend support to the proposal that rRNA processing and transcription are co-ordinately controlled in cells with a high rate of rRNA synthesis.
Random segretation of multiple genetic markers from CHO-CHO hybrids: evidence for random distribution of functional hemizygosity in the genome.	The linkage relationship between various recessive markers isolated in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells has been investigated. For such studies, multiple recessive markers conferring resistance to various drugs, e.g., resistance to emetine (Emtr), thioguanine (Thgr), azaadenine (Azar), phytohemagglutinin (Phar), diphtheria toxin (Dipr), toyocamycin (Toyr), aminopterin (Amnr), and methylglyoxalbisguanyl hydrazone (Mbgr), were introduced into CHO lines by selecting successively for one drug at a time. Hybrids were constructed between the multiply marked lines and the sensitive cells, and segregation frequencies for the various markers, singly and in different pairs, were examined. Results of such studies show that of the recessive markers examined, none cosegregated from the hybrid cells. The independent segregation of the X-chromosome-linked Thgr and of the rest of the markers indicates that none of these other mutations are located on the X chromosome. These results also provide strong suggestive evidence that functional hemizygosity in CHO cells is not restricted to one or a few chromosomal regions, but rather appears to be widespread.
Screening for apoptosis inducers in microbial products and induction of apoptosis by cytostatin.	We have employed the DNA-methylgreen binding assay as a primary screening method for identifying apoptosis inducers in microbial products. Capsimycin, toyocamycin and cytostatin affect the binding of methylgreen to DNA of FS3 cells in this test system. The effect of cytostatin on apoptosis induction was confirmed by means of the ELISA system.
