Surgical results and complications of mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy in refractory developmental glaucoma.	To evaluate the surgical results and complications of mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy in refractory developmental glaucoma.
Trabeculectomy with crescent tunnel knife under surface anesthesia for glaucoma: report of 41 cases]	This study aims to modify the surgical procedure of conventional trabeculectomy for glaucoma by incorporating scleral flap preparation with crescent tunnel knife under surface anesthesia. A total of 41 patients (48 eyes) received this modified surgical procedure, with the anesthesia being successfully implemented in all the cases. The time consumption by the operation on each eye averaged 17 min, shortened by 37% compared with the conventional procedure. The postoperative intraocular pressure was well under control without any complications arising either during or after the operation, showing the safety, rapidness and efficacy of this surgical approach in the treatment of glaucoma.
Photodynamic modulation of wound healing in glaucoma filtration surgery.	To report a clinical pilot study investigating photodynamic therapy (PDT) in combination with glaucoma filtration surgery. BCECF-AM was used as the photosensitising substance. The clinical safety and tolerability of BCECF-AM, and its efficacy in controlling postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) were assessed.
Spontaneous inferior subconjunctival haemorrhages in association with circumferential drainage blebs.	To describe an association of spontaneous inferior subconjunctival haemorrhages in eyes with circumferential drainage blebs following trabeculectomy.
Topical application of autologous serum for the treatment of late-onset aqueous oozing or point-leak through filtering bleb.	To evaluate the efficacy of topical autologous serum application to stop aqueous oozing or point-leak through filtering bleb after trabeculectomy.
Comparison of tilt and decentration between phacoemulsification and phacotrabeculectomy.	To determine the extent of intraocular lens (IOL) tilt and decentration values after combined surgery in patients with cataract and glaucoma.
Delayed filtering bleb encapsulation.	Encapsulated filtering blebs concomitant with increased intraocular pressure (IOP) developed 47 and 6 months, respectively, after surgery in two women, 46 and 60 years old, respectively, who had undergone trabeculectomy operations in one eye. Both blebs were associated with mild anterior uveitis. Following treatment with topical steroids, cyclopentolate, hypotensive medications, and digital massage, the uveitis resolved and the IOP fell. The likely cause of these late-appearing encapsulated blebs was anterior uveitis.
Risk factors for suprachoroidal hemorrhage after filtering surgery. The Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery Study Group.	In the Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery Study, ten of 162 eyes (6.2%) that had undergone previous cataract extraction developed a nonexpulsive suprachoroidal hemorrhage after filtering surgery. Of the previously reported risk factors, including age, myopia, history of vitrectomy, history of 5-fluorouracil injections, postoperative hypotony, and high preoperative intraocular pressure, only high preoperative intraocular pressure was statistically significant (P = .002). The risk of suprachoroidal hemorrhage was strongly associated with the level of the preoperative intraocular pressure. None of the 63 patients with a preoperative intraocular pressure less than 30 mm Hg, three of the 47 patients (6%) with a preoperative intraocular pressure between 30 and 39 mm Hg, four of the 36 patients (11%) with a preoperative intraocular pressure between 40 and 49 mm Hg, two of the 12 patients (17%) with a preoperative intraocular pressure between 50 and 59 mm Hg, and one of four patients with an intraocular pressure more than 60 mm Hg developed a suprachoroidal hemorrhage. Because the preoperative intraocular pressure was highly correlated with the difference between the preoperative and the postoperative intraocular pressure, it was not possible to distinguish which factor was clinically more important.
Combined cataract and glaucoma surgery with mitomycin C: phacoemulsification-trabeculectomy compared to phacoemulsification-deep sclerectomy.	To compare outcomes of phacoemulsification combined with trabeculectomy (PT) or deep sclerectomy (PDS) with intraoperative mitomycin C (MMC) application.
South-East Scotland trabeculectomy survey.	Assessment of trabeculectomy in South-East Scotland (SESTS) with comparison to National Survey of Trabeculectomy (NST) and outcomes of consultant and trainee surgery.
The effect of aspirin and warfarin therapy in trabeculectomy.	The management of patients on antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy (APACT) in glaucoma surgery currently has no specific recommendations. We aimed to establish the risk of haemorrhagic complications and surgical outcome in patients on APACT in glaucoma surgery.
Controlled cytostatic therapy in the early periods after surgery for glaucoma: preliminary results]	A procedure is proposed to contrast a clear solution of the cytostatic agent 5-fluorouracil during subconjunctival administration early after surgery for glaucoma in order to prevent hyperscarring. For this, after dissolution of 5-fluorouracil with 0.1% dexamethasone solution, 0.05 ml of 0.08% trypan blue solution was added to an injection syringe until the mixture produced a uniform light blue color. 0.1-0.2 ml of the mixture was subconjunctivally injected. The proposed procedure makes it possible to visualize the site of injection with a high degree of reliability: the penetration of the agent into the given area, the area of its spread, and the volume of the agent's administration, to view external filtration and possible intrachamber flux, and to provide information on the topography of formed outflow tracts.
The use of a "cheese-wire" suture in trabeculectomy.	To report a preliminary study on the safety and efficacy of the use of a cheese-wire suture in trabeculectomy.
Trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil.	The effect of subconjunctival injection of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) after trabeculectomy was studied retrospectively in 205 eyes of 168 patients. A life table analysis of the surgical outcome was based on the type of glaucoma and age related differences, and a comparison was made with patients who had trabeculectomy without subconjunctival 5-FU. The success rate at 30 months after trabeculectomy with 5-FU therapy was considerably higher in primary open-angle glaucoma at 93.6% (72.7%), secondary glaucoma at 88.9% (72.4%), and refractory glaucoma at 72.2% (32.5%) with (or without) the use of ocular hypotensive drops when compared with historical control groups treated without 5-FU (60.0% (41.7%), 35.5% (24.0%), and 18.0% (8.0%), respectively). In patients aged over 70 years, no statistically significant improvement could be demonstrated with the use of 5-FU after trabeculectomy in primary open-angle glaucoma. Our study may provide data on the appropriate dosage and indications for the use of this drug after glaucoma surgery.
Effectiveness of combination of permanent and releasable scleral flap sutures in trabeculectomy: a randomized clinical trial.	Trabeculectomy is a commonly used surgical treatment for glaucoma.
Modulation of wound healing during and after glaucoma surgery.	Following all types of glaucoma filtration surgery (GFS), scarring still poses the major threat to long-term success. The healing and scarring determine the percentage of patients achieving low final intraocular pressures (IOPs) that are associated with virtually no glaucoma progression. The use of antifibrotic agents to inhibit scarring of trabeculectomy blebs is now a well-established clinical practice. Unfortunately, severe complications such as leakage, infection, hypotony, and endophthalmitis with complete loss of vision may occur. In addition, surgery still fails in some individuals despite maximal doses of current antifibrotics. Better therapeutic agents are needed. Many promising new agents are being evaluated clinically and in vitro. In this chapter, we will discuss our current understanding of the wound healing process after glaucoma surgery and promising new treatment modalities.
Modern aqueous shunt implantation: future challenges.	The aqueous shunts that are currently available are based on the principles of the Molteno implant, i.e., a permanent sclerostomy, routing of aqueous to the equatorial subconjunctival space, and an end plate to prevent obstruction, and also to determine the surface area for absorption. While the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve appears to have improved the predictability of early intraocular pressure (IOP) control, the Baerveldt Glaucoma Implant has a tendency towards a lower rate of long-term excessive encapsulation. As a result of improvements in predictability, shunts are used more widely. Because of these positive factors, and ongoing concerns regarding the bleb-related problems associated with mitomycin C trabeculectomy, there is an increasing interest in the use of shunts as primary surgical management for primary glaucoma. At present, the main barrier to wider use of shunts in less-complicated glaucomas will probably be the unknown long-term effect on corneal endothelium, an issue that has not yet been properly addressed.
Deep sclerectomy and trabeculectomy in uveitic glaucoma.	To compare the results of deep sclerectomy (DS) and trabeculectomy (TRAB) in the management of uveitic glaucoma.
Effect of ciliary choroid detachment on the late results of trabeculectomy ]	The relationship between ciliochoroidal detachment on the late hypotensive results of trabeculectomy was studied in 64 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma. Seventy patients, matched for their initial condition and age, in whom the postoperative period ran without complications, made up the reference group. The mean follow-up period was 24.2 months. Ciliochoroidal detachment was found to have virtually no effect on the late hypotensive results of trabeculectomy, though such detachment had a negative effect on the lens transparency.
Effect of beta radiation on proliferating human Tenon's capsule fibroblasts.	The effects of different doses of beta radiation from a strontium-90 source on the proliferation of human Tenon's capsule fibroblasts were studied. The cultured fibroblasts were exposed to doses of 100, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 1500, and 3000 rads, and cell numbers were counted at days 3, 7, and 14. Treatment inhibited the proliferation of the fibroblasts. At seven days the cells exposed to 3000 rads showed a decrease relative to the starting cell numbers, and at 14 days the cells exposed to 1500 and 3000 rads showed a decrease in cell numbers. The doses of radiation which inhibited cell proliferation more than 50% (at day 7 and 14) and yet did not cause a decrease in the cell population were 500, 750, and 1000 rads. beta Radiation reduces the proliferation of human Tenon's capsule fibroblasts, and at higher doses this effect may be more pronounced one and two weeks after irradiation.
Risk factors associated with late infection of filtering blebs and endophthalmitis.	Late infection of filtering blebs and endophthalmitis are hazardous complications of glaucoma filtering surgery frequently associated with bleb failure and loss of functional vision. To determine possible risk factors for the development of these complications, characteristics of nine eyes of nine patients after filtering surgery in whom late endophthalmitis developed were compared with those in patients who had received a comparable operation at the same time in whom endophthalmitis did not develop. An average of 7.7 +/- 6.2 years (range, 6 months to 18 years) elapsed between the time of the filtering procedure and the initial appearance of endophthalmitis. Factors associated with increased risk were: increased axial length, thin and leaky bleb, conjunctivitis, upper respiratory infection, and the winter season.
Donor scleral graft patching for persistent filtration bleb leak.	We report effective and efficient sealing of a persistent leak in a cystic filtration bleb by applying a full-thickness donor scleral patch.
Trabeculectomy with anterior vitrectomy in aphakic and pseudophakic glaucoma.	In 15 eyes with uncontrolled aphakic/pseudophakic glaucoma, trabeculectomy with anterior vitrectomy was performed. Mean pre-operative intraocular pressure (IOP) was 38.2 +/- 6.7 mmHg and mean post operative IOP was 19.3 +/- 5.2 mmHg after follow-up of 11.2 2 months. The anterior chamber maintainer technique during vitrectomy has been employed. Success rate (IOP less than 21 mmHg with or without glaucoma medication) was 80%. Visual acuity remained unchanged in 4 eyes, improved in 5 eyes and worsened in 6 eyes. Postoperative complications included: two eyes with cystoid macular edema, two eyes with choroidal effusion and prolonged hypotony, one eye with self-absorbing vitreous hemorrhage and one eye with some opacification of the corneal graft. In aphakic/pseudophakic glaucoma where vitreous is filling the anterior chamber--a combined trabeculectomy with anterior vitrectomy is indicated for removal of vitreous from the sclerostomy site with better aqueous flow through the sclerostomy and adequate control of IOP.
Surgical experience in five years of residency]	The author presents a series of cases surgically treated (completely or just parts of them) during residency time and focuses upon difficulties and errors made in each surgical procedure.
Comparison of combined phacotrabeculectomy with trabeculectomy only in the treatment of primary angle-closure glaucoma.	Trabeculectomy has become a mainstream treatment in intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction for primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG); combined trabeculectomy and cataract surgery was reported to reduce IOP and simultaneously improve vision for patients with PACG and coexisting cataract. This study was specialized to compare the efficacy and safety of combined phacotrabeculectomy with that of trabeculectomy only in the treatment of PACG with coexisting cataract.
Evaluation of recurrent hyphema after trabeculectomy with ultrabiomicroscopy 50-80 MHz: a case report.	Hyphema is a complication that can occur after glaucoma filtering surgery. Biomicroscopic examination of the anterior segment is commonly used to diagnose it and gonioscopy may provide a useful support to find the source of the haemorrhage. Unfortunately, when the blood hides the structure of the anterior segment the gonioscopic examination fails. In this case we performed ultrabiomiscroscopy with 50-80 MHz probes to overcome the limits of gonioscopy. The use of this technique to study the anterior segment of the eye has previously been reported in literature, but we illustrates its importance for performing a correct diagnosis in a specific case of hyphema.
Complications of deep nonpenetrating sclerectomy]	The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate an incidence of complications after deep nonpenetrating sclerectomy with different type of implant.
Corneal endothelial changes after selective laser trabeculoplasty.	Whitish spots are sometimes noted in the corneal endothelium after selective laser trabeculoplasty. To evaluate the corneal endothelium after selective laser trabeculoplasty, corneal specular microscopy was performed.
Changes in choroidal thickness, axial length, and ocular perfusion pressure accompanying successful glaucoma filtration surgery.	To investigate the changes in choroidal thickness (CT), axial length (AL), and ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) accompanying intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction after trabeculectomy. methods: Thirty-nine eyes of 39 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma uncontrolled by medical therapy were included in this prospective and interventional study. All patients underwent a fornix-based trabeculectomy. The CT was measured by enhanced depth imaging-optical coherence tomography. IOP, AL, and systolic/diastolic blood pressure were also measured, and OPP was calculated. All measurements were performed at baseline and 1 month after surgery.
Keratometric astigmatism evaluation after trabeculectomy.	Post-operative astigmatism is one of the most important causes for diminution of vision after trabeculectomy.
Delayed nonexpulsive suprachoroidal hemorrhage after trabeculectomy.	Five cases of delayed nonexpulsive suprachoroidal hemorrhage after trabeculectomy in aphakic eyes are reported. Four cases were done under general anesthesia and in three there was straining and bucking at extubation. The most common presentation was sudden severe ocular pain one day postoperatively, associated with marked decrease in vision and low intraocular pressure. The prognosis was related to the extent of the hemorrhage; where suprachoroidal hemorrhage was extensive, surgical drainage appeared to help. Our last two patients, both with massive postoperative nonexpulsive suprachoroidal hemorrhage, underwent surgical drainage of suprachoroidal blood and recovered preoperative visual acuity.
Management of anterior chamber depth after trabeculectomy.	We followed up 36 eyes of 34 patients for the first three months after trabeculectomy, paying special attention to the depth of the anterior chamber. A significant difference in postoperative course was noted between those eyes with central cornea-lens touch and those with cornea-iris touch but not contact between cornea and lens. The former group (four eyes) had a high rate of complications, including corneal edema, cataract, and bleb failure, despite early efforts to reform the anterior chamber. The latter group (18 eyes), in which the anterior chambers were all allowed to reform spontaneously, had a favorable course, similar to those eyes that maintained formed anterior chambers throughout the study.
Combined extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and trabeculectomy.	In a retrospective study in a consecutive series of operations performed by the author, 13 eyes in 10 patients underwent combined extracapsular cataract extraction, posterior chamber intraocular lens (IOL) implantation and trabeculectomy. All had significant cataract and chronic open-angle glaucoma with field loss, uncontrolled or marginally controlled on maximum tolerable medical treatment. All had a postoperative reduction in intraocular pressure. Significant complications included malignant glaucoma (in two eyes) and a late choroidal detachment (in one eye). The indications for and the advantages of the combined procedure are discussed, emphasising the advantages of extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE) and posterior chamber lens implantation, in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG).
Intraocular pressure rise after argon laser trabeculoplasty.	Eighty-four eyes received 107 argon laser trabeculoplasty treatments at Beth Israel Medical Center between 1982 and 1984 for advanced primary and secondary glaucoma. The prelaser mean pressure was 20.25 mmHg. Pressures taken 1 1/2 hours postoperatively varied widely: the pressure rose after 47 treatments and fell or remained the same after 60. Significant increases in pressure occurred in 10 eyes, after 12 treatments; 42% of these had received burns of 0.8 watts or greater. Pressure changes were correlated with laser burn energy level. Both patients who had significant increases in pressure initially were retreated again--in the same eye--at another time had similar increases in postoperative pressure again, even with lower energy levels. Comparison with the results of previous reports highlights the advantages of limited treatment to the anterior trabeculum with low energy levels.
The effect of brief intrascleral or episcleral application of mitomycin C on the ciliary epithelium and pressure in the rabbit eye.	Ten albino rabbits underwent bilateral Cairns' trabeculectomy (group 1). A sponge soaked with 0.5 mg/ml mitomycin C solution was applied under the scleral flap for 5 min followed by irrigation with 20 ml 0.9% sodium chloride solution in the left eyes. In the right eyes a sponge soaked with 0.9% sodium chloride solutions was applied. In 9 albino rabbits a 3 x 2 mm episcleral area at 12 o'clock position was exposed to 0.5 mg/ml mitomycin C solution on one side and to 0.9% sodium chloride solution in the contralateral eye (group 2). Five, 10 and 30 days (group 1 and 2) and 3 months (group 1) following surgery specimens of the ciliary body adjacent, beside and opposite to the site of the operation were excised and studied with light and electron microscopy. No stromal or epithelial morphological changes of toxic origin have been revealed in the ciliary processes, even in specimens adjacent to the surgical area. In 5 albino rabbits (group 3) intraocular pressure was recorded before surgery and 5, 10 and 30 days after unilateral, episcleral mitomycin C application described in group 2. No significant changes or interocular difference has been recorded. The results suggest that long-term postoperative hypotony following trabeculectomy with mitomycin C is not caused by reduced aqueous humour secretion of toxic origin.
Applications for a corneal mattress suture in anterior limbal wound repairs.	We describe the use of a corneal mattress suture to manage two complications of trabeculectomy: first, to repair an anterior conjunctival tear/disinsertion in a limbus-based conjunctival flap; and, second, to restore wound integrity by reinforcing a focal section of scleromalacia or to close a perforation remaining from a previous cataract wound encountered during complicated trabeculectomy. In each setting, a single, double-armed 10-0 nylon corneal mattress suture is used as an anchor to establish a watertight limbal-wound closure. Additionally, for repairing an area of a scleromalacia/perforation, the corneal mattress suture can be used to incorporate a graft of Tenon's fascia into the wound.
Management of a partial-thickness scleral-flap buttonhole during trabeculectomy.	I report the use of partial-thickness Tenon's-conjunctival tissue in the repair of an intraoperative scleral-flap buttonhole that developed during trabeculectomy using adjunctive mitomycin C.
Incidence of complications following 5-fluorouracil with trabeculectomies.	To investigate the incidence of complications reportedly caused by the use of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in glaucoma filtering surgery, we performed trabeculectomy with 5-FU on 57 eyes of 56 patients with advanced glaucoma. The mean preoperative intraocular pressure was 34.8 mm Hg. The most frequent complication encountered was superficial punctate keratopathy (26%), followed by shallowing of the anterior chamber (12%), choroidal detachment (9%), and flap retraction (7%). We, however, did not encounter any cases of confluent corneal epithelial defect, subepithelial scarring, or striate melanokeratosis which are usually described with the use of 5-FU. With a mean follow-up of 7.1 months, an intraocular pressure less than 16 mm Hg without hypotensive therapy were achieved in 73.7% of cases, and less than 21 mm Hg without hypotensive therapy in 86%. Considering the low incidence of complications and the high success rate, we recommend the use of 5-FU in routine glaucoma filtering surgery.
Restoration of intraocular pressure after streptococcus endophthalmitis with vitrectomy.	A bleb infection and subsequent endophthalmitis developed in the left eye of a 68-year-old man who had had a trabeculectomy. Vitreous injections of vancomycin and gentamicin were given, and vitreous cultures grew alpha-Streptococcus. Postoperatively, as the intraocular inflammation resolved, intraocular pressure (IOP) markedly decreased secondary, in our judgment, to ciliary body ischemia. A pars plana vitrectomy relieved the tractional bands and restored the IOP.
Late onset endophthalmitis associated with filtering blebs.	A consecutive series of 71 cases of late onset endophthalmitis (defined as onset of symptoms at least 2 weeks after surgery) were reviewed to determine the association of this entity with glaucoma surgery filtering blebs and to identify any predisposing factors. Sixteen cases were associated with filtering blebs and two with inadvertent blebs following cataract surgery. Onset of endophthalmitis ranged from 24 days to 20 years after surgery (mean, 6.9 years). Possible contributing factors included trauma, vitreous wicks, and bleb leak. Twelve cases were culture-positive, with 5 cases of Staphylococcus epidermidis; 2, Staphylococcus aureus; 4, Streptococcus; and 1, Pseudomonas. There were no cases of Hemophilus. The more virulent organisms were generally associated with a poor visual outcome. The organisms recovered in this series were similar to those found in postoperative endophthalmitis not associated with filtering blebs.
Trabeculectomy with intraoperative sponge 5-fluorouracil.	To retrospectively assess the outcome of trabeculectomy surgery performed using intraoperative sponge 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (50 mg/ml).
Repair of Descemet's membrane detachment with the assistance of intraoperative ultrasound biomicroscopy.	To evaluate the ability of ultrasound biomicroscopy to monitor the repair of large Descemet's membrane detachments.
Anterior intraocular lens dislocation after combined cataract extraction trabeculectomy.	To evaluate the incidence, cause, and effect of intraocular lens (IOL) dislocation after combined cataract extraction and trabeculectomy.
Rapid preparation of small-volume autologous fibrinogen concentrate and its same day use in bleb leaks after glaucoma filtration surgery.	The authors evaluated small-volume preparation of autologous fibrin glue (AFG) and same day use in postglaucoma filtration surgery patients with Seidel positive bleb leaks and determined fibrinogen concentrations in autologous fibrinogen concentrates (AFCs) from 10 volunteers. Thirty milliliters of blood was centrifuged (5 min, 2400 x g); plasma was frozen (5 min-ethanol and ice), thawed (1-6 C, 30-60 min), and centrifuged (10 min, 5 C, 2800 x g); and the precipitate was transferred to a 1.0-ml tuberculosis syringe. Thrombin (1000 U) was dissolved (0.8 sterile water, 0.2 ml aminocaproic acid) and warmed (37 C). Average preparation time was 90 minutes. Alternating drops of AFC and thrombin were applied to bleb leaks until AFC clotted. Seidel testing with fluorescein determined success. AFC was prepared from 10 volunteers and fibrinogen was measured. AFG was initially successful with two (Seidel negative) eyes; one eye remained negative. AFG was unsuccessful in one briskly Seidel-positive leak. Mean +/- SD fibrinogen concentration in AFCs from the 10 volunteers was 2314 +/- 643 mg/dl (range 1608-3431 mg/dl). AFG may successfully close bleb leaks in outpatient settings. Brisk aqueous flow may impair effectiveness of AFG. Fibrinogen concentrations were comparable with previous reports.
