Innervation of the porcine ciliary muscle and outflow region.	The porcine eye serves as a model to study various functions of the aqueous outflow system. To compare these data with the primate eye, a detailed investigation of the distribution of contractile properties and of the innervation of the outflow region was conducted in the porcine eye. In all quadrants of the anterior eye segment, elastic fibres connected the ciliary muscle (CM) with the well-developed scleral spur (ScS) and also partly with the corneoscleral trabecular meshwork (TM) and the loops of the collecting outflow channels. Immunohistochemistry with antibodies against smooth muscle alpha-actin revealed intense staining of the CM and some myofibroblasts in the ScS and outer TM. In addition to a few cholinergic and aminergic nerve fibres in the outflow region, numerous substance P- and calcitonin-gene related peptide-positive nerve fibres and nerve endings were found near the outflow loops of the porcine TM. Although the porcine CM serves rather as a tensor choroideae muscle than as a muscle for accommodation, the innervation and morphology of the collecting outflow channel loops and of the expanded TM between the ScS and the cornea showed close similarities to the primate eye.
Glycosaminoglycans of organ-cultured rabbit trabecular meshwork.	The anterior segments of rabbit eyes were dissected into two types of corneoscleral explants: one a large, ring-shaped block of tissue from one eye and the other consisting of small blocks of tissue from the other eye which was dissected into 8 parts. Explants were cultured for up to 2 weeks. The glycosaminoglycan (GAG) profiles of the organ-cultured rabbit trabecular meshwork were then investigated and compared with respect to explant size. The results revealed: (1) similar trabecular GAG profiles in both sizes of explants, (2) trabecular GAG profiles obtained within the culture period came to resemble those of noncultured specimens and (3) incorporation of the radiolabels continued for up to 5 days, with 2 days sufficient for GAG analysis.
Oxidative stress and glaucoma: injury in the anterior segment of the eye.	The perturbation of the pro-oxidant/antioxidant balance can lead to increased oxidative damage, especially when the first line of antioxidant defense weakens with age. Chronic changes in the composition of factors present in aqueous or vitreous humor may induce alterations both in trabecular cells and in cells of the optic nerve head. Free radicals and reactive oxygen species are able to affect the cellularity of the human trabecular meshwork (HTM). These findings suggest that intraocular pressure increase, which characterizes most glaucomas, is related to oxidative and degenerative processes affecting the HTM and, more specifically, its endothelial cells. This supports the theory that glaucomatous damage is the pathophysiological consequence of oxidative stress. Glaucomatous subjects might have a genetic predisposition, rendering them more susceptible to reactive oxygen species-induced damage. It is likely that specific genetic factors contribute to both the elevation of IOP and susceptibility of the optic nerve/retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to degeneration. Thus, oxidative stress plays a fundamental role during the arising of glaucoma-associated lesions, first in the HTM and then, when the balance between nitric oxide and endothelins is broken, in neuronal cell. Vascular damage and hypoxia, often associated with glaucoma, lead to apoptosis of RGCs and may also contribute to the induction of oxidative damage to the HTM. On the whole, these findings support the hypothesis that oxidative damage is an important step in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma and might be a relevant target for both prevention and therapy.
Assessment of scleral spur visibility with anterior segment optical coherence tomography.	To develop a grading system to evaluate the scleral spur visibility and to investigate the association between this and the angle width.
Effects of corneal thickness and axial length on intraocular pressure and ocular pulse amplitude before and after cataract surgery.	To investigate the relationship between the biophysical properties of the cornea and eye on the intraocular pressure (IOP) and ocular pulse amplitude (OPA) before and after cataract surgery.
The collagen matrix of the human trabecular meshwork is an extension of the novel pre-Descemet's layer (Dua's layer).	The trabecular meshwork (TM) located at the angle of the anterior chamber of the eye contributes to aqueous drainage. A novel layer in the posterior part of the human cornea has recently been reported (the pre-Descemet's layer (Dua's layer (PDL)). We examined the peripheral part of this layer in relation to the origin of the TM.
