Ultrastructural changes in the trabecular meshwork of congenital glaucoma.	Trabeculectomy specimens from 10 patients with congenital glaucoma were studied by electron microscopy. In all cases proliferation of fibrous connective tissue was found from the inner wall of Schlemm's canal. Accumulation of collagen fibres, sometimes of varied thickness and irregular striation, and agglomerations of microfibrillar material with the structure of collagen microfibrils were observed. This material formed basement membrane-like structures and 'shaggy' or fingerprint-like patterns. The ultrastructural examination of the trabecular meshwork revealed no significant differences between the morphological picture of primary congenital glaucoma and that found in Axenfeld and Rieger anomalies. Ultrastructural pictures of glaucoma cases examined in the present study converged also with those of juvenile glaucoma cases reported in literature, which may indicate the existence of a pathogenic factor common to these forms of glaucoma.
Alterations of aqueous humour outflow following argon laser trabeculoplasty in monkeys.	We performed argon laser trabeculoplasty in one eye in each of three cynomolgus monkeys, leaving the contralateral eyes as controls. Four weeks later in both eyes of each monkey we infused cationized ferritin as a tracer of the aqueous outflow pathways for 30-40 minutes before fixation. In the control eyes cationized ferritin was found throughout the conventional aqueous outflow tract, labelling trabecular endothelial cells, both inner and outer walls of Schlemm's canal, and the collecting channels. No permeation of cationized ferritin through continuous cellular layers such as the corneal endothelium was detected. In the lasered spots of the treated eyes cationized ferritin was found to label the cellular sheet covering the trabecular scar at the lasered site, but no tracer was detected within the scar or in Schlemm's canal immediately beneath. In contrast in adjacent non-lasered regions the trabecular cells, the observed juxta-canalicular herniations, and the vacuoles of the inner wall as well as Schlemm's canal itself were extensively labelled. Our findings suggest impermeability to aqueous humour flow through the actual lasered lesion, with shift of flow to adjacent, non-lasered regions. In the normal monkey these regions compensate structurally and functionally in ways that may help to deal with this diverted flow.
Presence of matrix vesicles in the trabecular meshwork of glaucomatous eyes.	In the last few years matrix vesicles (M.V.) have been found in the vessel wall in various diseases and are considered to be related with pathological changes of the extracellular fibers of the tissue (atypical collagen etc.). Since the trabecular meshwork, at least the cribriform region, may be looked upon as a part of a vessel wall, it was an obvious conclusion to look for M.V. even in this area. Lysosomal and non-lysosomal M.V. were found in 138 trabeculectomy-specimens of various kinds of glaucoma, located for the most part within the cribriform or juxta-canalicular region of the meshwork. In ten cases small, electron-dense M.V. were found which ultrahistochemically showed a positive reaction for acid phosphatase. This proves that these vesicles are indeed extracellular lysosomes.
Structural changes of human and monkey trabecular meshwork following in vitro cultivation.	The entire chamber angle tissue of ten monkey eyes and nine normal human eyes was cultivated in organ cultures for 1-10 days and then investigated by electron microscopy. We found that the uveal and corneoscleral trabecular cells often degenerate as early as 2-3 days after explantation, whereas the cells of the cribriform region proliferate and show an increasing number of cell organelles (mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes). Regarding the behaviour in vitro, we distinguished three different cell populations in the trabecular meshwork with probably different functions: (1) the endothelial cells of Schlemm's canal, (2) the trabecular cells of the cribriform region and (3) the uveal or corneoscleral trabecular cells.
Ultrastructure of the trabecular meshwork in untreated cases of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).	Thirty-one trabeculectomy specimens of patients suffering from primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) who had received no, or only minor, medication prior to surgery were ultrastructurally and quantitatively analysed. Most of the specimens revealed thickened trabeculae, increased amounts of plaque-material deposited within the cribriform layer and an abundance of long spacing (lattice) collagen. The uveal meshwork was partly deprived of cells whereas the cribriform layer often contained numerous enlarged, light cells with many small mitochondria and lysosomes but no prominent endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi complexes. The quantitation of sheath-deprived plaque material (SD plaques) in a defined area of inner and outer wall of Schlemm's canal showed no significant difference between the untreated cases studied here and the treated ones studied previously. However, both groups had significantly higher amounts of SD plaque material in the inner wall than normal controls of a similar age range.
Epithelial ingrowth.	A 74-year-old woman had a radical anterior segment resection for epithelial ingrowth following cataract extraction. Light microscopy demonstrated the presence of a sheet of cells morphologically similar to conjunctival epithelium covering the superior half of the inner surface of the cornea, iris, and ciliary processes. Electron microscopy revealed that frequent hemidesmosomes and a well-developed basal lamina were consistently present along the base of the ingrowing epithelium. The tissue immediately beneath the ingrowing epithelium, lining the cornea, trabecular meshwork and iris, morphologically resembled the subepithelial zone that has been described along the human skin epidermal-dermal junction. Additionally, focal areas of necrosis were noted in the trabecular meshwork. The major structural alterations induced on the surfaces of intraocular structures by the invading epithelium and the associated necrosis probably are responsible for the glaucoma which occurs with epithelial ingrowth.
