Oculopression tonometry after argon laser trabeculoplasty]	A group of 26 patients (14 female and 12 male ranging in age from 49 to 84 years) who had primary open angle glaucoma underwent argon laser trabeculoplasty in one eye each. Shortly before the laser treatment, and one and twelve (7-14) weeks after the treatment suction cup oculopression tonometry was performed with an increase of intraocular pressure according to 1.8 x actual intraocular pressure. A therapeutically significant decrease of intraocular pressure was observed already one week thereafter, but findings become more significant after a longer follow up. The decrease of intraocular pressure and results of oculopression tonometry indicate that the measured resistance to aqueous outflow decreased significantly after argon laser trabeculotomy.
Effect of argon laser trabeculoplasty on unrestricted outflow of aqueous humor in eyes with simple glaucoma]	In this prospective study we used the oculopressions-tonometry (OPT) for determination of the aqueous humor outflow facility (C). 53 phacic eyes with glaucoma simplex were examined pre- and postoperatively. One hour after operation C decreased from 0.15 to 0.14. In correlation to this fact the IOD increased. After 7 days C was higher already than preoperatively, 30 days and 6 months after operation C showed normal values. After 6 months the mean decrease in IOD was 5.8 mm Hg, the mean increase in C was 39%. The rate of success after 30 days was 77.4%. IOP and C showed statistically significant changes. The problems with determining C and the causes of the fluctuation of C during our follow-up are discussed.
Clinical results with the Trabectome for treatment of open-angle glaucoma.	To describe clinical results from a pilot study of a novel glaucoma surgical device.
Pressure reduction after selective laser trabeculoplasty with two different laser systems and after argon laser trabeculoplasty--a controlled prospective clinical trial on 284 eyes]	Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is a new method to reduce intraocular pressure in eyes with primary open angle glaucoma. The laser parameters of a Q-switched, frequency-doubled Nd:YAG-laser are set to selectively target pigmented trabecular meshwork cells without visible damage to the adjacent non-pigmented tissue. SLT acts non-thermally, the intracellular microdisruptions triggered by the laser are confined to the targeted cells, the laser pulses are so short that heat caused within the targeted cells does not have time to spread to the surrounding tissue. A controlled prospective randomised clinical study was conducted to compare the long-term results, safety and efficacy after SLT with two different laser systems and after ALT in the treatment of ocular hypertension and medically uncontrolled open angle glaucoma.
Clinical results with the Trabectome, a novel surgical device for treatment of open-angle glaucoma.	To describe treatment outcomes after Trabectome surgery in an initial series of 101 patients with open-angle glaucoma.
Goniotomy technique for removal of anterior chamber intraocular lenses.	Removal of an anterior chamber intraocular lens is often impeded by formation of peripheral anterior synechiae around one or more of the lens haptics. We describe a method of lysing adhesions under direct visualization through a contact gonioprism lens. This method is relatively atraumatic to vital anterior-chamber-angle structures.
Fibrin glue coating of the surgical surfaces may facilitate formation of a successful bleb in trabeculectomy surgery.	Trabeculectomy is commonly conducted when medical therapy fails to control intraocular pressure (IOP). The success of trabeculectomy for the treatment of glaucoma depends on the wound-healing response at the subconjunctival filtering bleb site. Postoperative scar formation is a serious problem in this surgery. Current strategies to counteract scarring include local antimetabolite treatment, which is associated with severe side effects, limiting its application. Therefore, additional means to safely modulate wound healing are desirable. In ophthalmic surgery, fibrin glue is used mainly for sealing and hemostatics purpose. Fibrin glue coating of tenon face of conjunctiva, scleral surface, reverse face of scleral flap and scleral bed with insoluble fibrin glue can halt both ooze bleeding and vascular leakage. By retarding the first step of wound healing, less postoperative inflammation may occur. Additionally aqueous humor flows through a fibrin glue coated interface. Therefore, we hypothesize that fibrin glue coating of the surgical surfaces in trabeculectomy surgery may yield less subconjunctival fibrosis and more successful bleb. To the best of our knowledge, no basic research has yet been performed regarding fibrin glue coating for halting the vascular leakage and easing the aqueous drainage into subconjunctival space in glaucoma surgery.
Tube versus trabeculectomy study]	Epibulbar glaucoma drainage devices have been only slightly modified since their introduction more than 40 years ago. Having been used primarily in only difficult cases with a poor prognosis (and therefore with poor clinical results) the recently published trabeculectomy versus tube study (TVT) led to a change in our understanding of these devices. In this study epibulbar glaucoma drainage devices (here the Baerveldt device) were employed for early implantation (in some cases as primary glaucoma surgery intervention). Being sceptically monitored the results over the first 5 year clearly showed an almost equal or even better outcome in comparison to trabeculectomy. Despite these good results a critical evaluation seems mandatory mainly because of the unsolved problems concerning late complications. Late tube erosion with subsequent blebitis and enophthalmitis as well as late base plate encapsulation need to be mentioned here. The latter leads to thick fibrous tissue around the base plate resulting in an increase of intraocular pressure (IOP). Late corneal decompensation is also a late complication the pathomechanism of which is only poorly understood. Solving and treating such late complications are often troublesome and time consuming. Future experiments should lead to development of new drainage implant designs and the bulk material should be enhanced and optimized to increase clinical surgical results. 
Trabecular aspiration. A new surgical method for improving chamber angle facility in pseudoexfoliation glaucoma]	The main reason for elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucoma capsulare is secondary plugging of the intertrabecular spaces by pigment and fibrillous material. The goal of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of trabecular aspiration, a new surgical concept to improve trabecular facility in glaucoma capsulare.
New lid speculum for glaucoma filtering surgery.	Successful bleb formation in glaucoma filtering surgery depends on adequate intraoperative visualization and atraumatic handling and preservation of normal conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule in order to avoid unnecessary stimulation and fibrous tissue formation. With these requirements in mind, we designed a new lid speculum that offers the following advantages: (1) wide surgical field exposure; (2) simultaneous globe fixation; (3) obviation of placing a bridle suture; (4) minimal damage to the superior rectus muscle, conjunctiva, and Tenon's capsule; (5) conjunctival incision placement far from the limbus; and (6) reduced operating time.
Monomanual pupil stretcher.	The monomanual pupil stretcher is a new instrument that allows the authors to easily, quickly, and safely stretch the pupil. The specific features of the hooks allow pupil stretching to be performed in a single maneuver and in a more effective manner.
The outlook for the use of diode laser radiation for trabeculoplasty in treating primary open-angle glaucoma]	Clinical efficacy of diode laser trabeculoplasty is assessed in 35 eyes of 30 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma during during the initial and well-developed stages of diseases. Changes in the anterior segment of the eye, intraocular pressure, ocular hydrodynamics, visual functions, and status of the optic nerve were assessed 6-12 months after the operation. Diode laser trabeculoplasty is characterized by areactive clinical course and leads to a significant decrease of intraocular pressure, stabilizes and improves visual functions, and ameliorates intraocular humor discharge. The treatment runs a smooth course without complications. The method is recommended for clinical practice and further studies.
