Effect of the Palmaz balloon-expandable metallic stent in the trachea of pigs.	Endoscopically placed airway stents offer a viable option in primary or adjunctive treatment of severe pediatric tracheobronchial stenoses. Optimistic clinical reports substantiate the need for experimental studies to more effectively evaluate their clinical role. Development of an animal model comparable with the pediatric airway, amenable to endoscopic instrumentation, and capable of assessing effect on growth was the purpose of this pilot project. Nine 4-week-old piglets underwent endoscopic midtracheal placement of the balloon-expandable Palmaz metallic stent. Initial expansion and stent position were verified fluoroscopically and by direct videobronchoscopy. Serial endoscopic examination and stent reexpansion were performed 2 and 4 weeks after stent insertion. Animal weight, clinical tolerance, tracheal growth, and stent integrity were observed. Tracheal inflammation was evaluated grossly and by objective histopathologic criteria. Successful endotracheal stent placement and expansion were accomplished in all piglets. One pig died of anesthesia complications less than 24 hours after stent insertion. The remaining pigs exhibited excellent clinical tolerance through experiment completion. No detrimental effect on growth was noted, and effective dilatation of the stented tracheal region was observed. Stent incorporation was evident with significant mucosal ingrowth. Inflammation in the form of nonobstructing granulation tissue was present, and no evidence of necrosis or cartilage invasion was evident. The piglet trachea appears to be an excellent model for evaluation of expandable metallic airway stents in management of congenital and acquired tracheobronchial stenoses.
Comparison of elastic properties and contractile responses of isolated airway segments from mature and immature rabbits.	Immature rabbits have greater maximal airway narrowing with bronchoconstriction in vivo compared with mature animals. As isolated immature lungs have a lower shear modulus, it is unclear whether the greater airway narrowing in the immature lung is secondary to less tethering between the airways and the lung parenchyma or to differences in the mechanical properties of the mature and immature airways. In the present study, we compared the mechanical properties of fluid-filled, isolated, intraparenchymal airway segments of the same generation from mature and immature rabbits. Stimulation with ACh resulted in greater airway narrowing in immature than mature bronchi. The immature bronchi were more compliant, had a lower resting airway volume, and were more collapsible compared with the mature bronchi. When the airways were contracted with ACh under isovolume conditions, the immature bronchi generated greater active pressure, and they were more sensitive to ACh than were mature bronchi. Our results suggest that maturational differences in the structure and function of the airways in the absence of the lung parenchyma can account for the greater maximal narrowing of immature than mature airways in vivo.
Expression and activity of beta-defensins and LL-37 in the developing human lung.	Immaturity of innate immunity contributes to the increased susceptibility of human neonates to infection. The lung is a major portal of entry for potential pathogens in the neonate, and human beta-defensins (HBDs) and LL-37 participate in pulmonary innate immunity. We hypothesized that these antimicrobial factors would be developmentally regulated, expressed by neonatal pulmonary tissues, and participate in neonatal innate immunity. We found HBD-2 to be the predominant beta-defensin in human neonatal lung. HBD-2 mRNA expression was developmentally regulated, induced by the proinflammatory factor IL-1beta, and decreased by dexamethasone. Additionally, HBD-2 abundance in neonatal tracheal aspirates increased as a function of gestational age. HBD-1 had a lower level of expression compared with HBD-2 and was induced by dexamethasone. HBD-3 and LL-37 messages were not detected in airway epithelial cultures. Additionally, each antimicrobial peptide exhibited a unique spectrum of antimicrobial activity and salt sensitivity against bacteria commonly causing sepsis in the neonate. Lower levels of HBD-2 may be one factor contributing to the increased susceptibility of premature infants to pulmonary infections.
Age-related changes of the larynx and trachea assessed by three-dimensional computed tomography in children: Application to endotracheal intubation and bronchoscopy.	The purpose of this study was to establish normative data of laryngotracheal dimensions and shape and to evaluate differences associated with age and sex using three-dimensional (3D) imaging. A total of 120 patients (64 boys and 56 girls) were included. Subjects were divided into four groups: Group 1 (0-2 years), Group 2 (3-7 years), Group 3 (8-13 years), and Group 4 (14-20 years). Using 3D image processing software, the laryngeal volume (LV), tracheal volume (TV), anteroposterior diameter at the glottis, cross-sectional area (CSA) at the subglottis, and laryngeal angle (LA) of the thyroid laminae were measured. Parameters of laryngotracheal volume and size were positively correlated with age, whereas the LA was inversely correlated with age. The LV, TV, CSA-3 mm, and CSA-5 mm exhibited a growth spurt in Groups 2 and 3. The LA decreased at a faster rate in Group 1 (P = 0.012). In Groups 1 and 2, there were no differences between genders for each laryngotracheal segmentation or plane. However, gender differences in the TV of Group 3 were statistically significant (P = 0.030). In Group 4, gender differences of all airway parameters were evident. Volume and other dimensions of the laryngotracheal airway increase with age. There was a significant increase in the LV, TV, CSA-3 mm, and CSA-5 mm in Groups 2 and 3. The LA correlated negatively with age in the Group 1. Significant sex dimorphisms are evident in Group 4.
Growth of tracheal anastomoses in growing animals]	Growth of the trachea after complete transection and anastomoses was studied in four equal groups (N = 7) of young New Zealand white rabbits (mean weight 1.19 +/- 0.19 kg). The trachea was transected below the 5th cartilagenous ring and immediately anastomosed. Suture materials and sewing techniques used for comparison were continuous 6-0 polypropylene, interrupted 6-0 polypropylene, continuous 6-0 polydioxanone (PDS) or interrupted 6-0 PDS. The animals were electively sacrificed between 95 and 98 days after surgery. Mean body weight increased to 2.7 +/- 0.18 kg. Mean cross sectional area (CSA) of the trachea at sacrifice at the anastomosis (A) and an average of CSA 5 mm above and below the anastomosis (B) were compared. The ratios (A/B) of each groups were 0.52 (continuous polypropylene), 0.62 (interrupted polypropylene), 0.58 (continuous PDS) and 0.80 (interrupted PDS), respectively. One way of analysis of variance revealed that growth of the tracheal anastomoses in interrupted PDS was significantly better (p less than 0.005) than other combinations. It was concluded that growth of the trachea following complete transection and anastomosis in a growing animal was significantly better with absorbable suture material and interrupted suturing technique.
Effect of prosthetic airway splint on the growing trachea.	Airway splints are now used clinically to treat tracheomalacia and may also have a place in the management of tracheal stenosis. These studies in 5 to 7 Kg piglets were designed to assess the effects of prosthetic airway splints on airway growth and to establish their usefulness in the reconstruction of tracheal defects. Three experimental groups were studied: group I (n = 8). Silastic reinforced Marlex mesh or Vicryl mesh prostheses were placed around 75% of the circumference of a 3 cm segment of trachea. Pigs were sacrificed at 4 months (average weight = 78.9 +/- 9.0 Kg) and the cross-sectional area of trachea was measured. Group II (n = 5). The same prostheses were used to replace the tracheal defect created by excising three rings (50% of tracheal circumference). Tracheas were examined grossly and histologically at sacrifice. Group III (n = 5). Same as Group II except tracheal defect covered by strap muscles. Prostheses placed external to them to prevent airway collapse. Group I had 4% to 14% (mean 8%) decrease from normal cross-sectional area of trachea at site of splint. No airway obstruction and no infection was encountered. Group II, severe airway obstruction, granulation tissue, and infection at site of defect was noted. Group III showed no signs of airway obstruction, no infection, and minimal airway narrowing. Re-epithelialization of the muscle surface in contact with airway occurred in all these animals. Silastic reinforced Marlex or Vicryl splints placed around the intact rapidly growing trachea do not significantly limit its growth. In addition, these synthetic materials appear to be well-tolerated when used to reconstruct tracheal defects if placed over well-vascularized tissue such as muscle.
Tracheal resection in infancy.	Tracheal resection, commonly used in adults, has not been applied to the infant age group because of concerns regarding subsequent tracheal growth. Upper tracheal narrowing in infants may often be satisfactorily treated, but patients with long segment distal tracheal stenosis do not respond to usual therapy and rarely survive. In this case, resection of the distal third of the trachea was accomplished successfully and the trachea appears capable of normal growth in the area of the anastamosis.
Control of bronchomotor tone during perinatal development in sheep.	To characterize the perinatal maturation of the cholinergic control of the airways, we compared the effects of bilateral cervical vagotomy and supramaximal vagal stimulation on the airway resistances of 7 premature (130-133 days of gestation), 11 term newborn, and 9 9-wk-old lambs anesthetized with pentobarbital. Resistances were partitioned between central and peripheral airways with catheters placed retrogradely into peripheral bronchi and capsules attached to the pleural surface in communication with subpleural air spaces. The central and peripheral airway resistances of premature and term newborn lambs and the peripheral resistance of 9-wk-old lambs decreased after vagotomy but only when the lungs were ventilated with small tidal volumes at mean transpulmonary pressures < or = 7.5 cmH2O. Vagotomy caused smaller absolute changes in central airway resistance than vagal stimulation. In contrast, both vagotomy and vagal stimulation produced similar absolute changes in peripheral airway resistance, indicating that resting cholinergic outflow is preferentially distributed to the peripheral airways even at the earlier ages. The effects of vagal stimulation on airway resistance were prevented by atropine. Our results prove that a resting bronchomotor tone can be present in both central and peripheral airways before the term of gestation in sheep. This tone depends on the activity of cholinergic fibers in the vagus and can be regionally controlled.
Tracheal growth in congenital tracheal stenosis.	Two cases of congenital tracheal stenosis were managed conservatively despite mild to moderate initial respiratory symptomatology in infancy. Serial CT examinations were performed on each child, with tracheal dimensions and cross-sectional areas measured in the region of stenosis at each CT examination. The examinations document increases in tracheal cross-sectional area in the region of stenosis over time, confirming tracheal cartilage growth. We present these data to dispel the hypothesis that tracheal growth does not occur in complete-ring tracheal stenosis. The selection of cases for surgical repair must be considered with the knowledge that this anomaly does not carry an inevitably poor prognosis.
