Successful long-term endoscopic closure of a recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula with fibrin glue in a child.	We present an unusual case of recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula after primary surgical repair of congenital esophageal atresia. Traditionally, this disorder has required open-surgical correction, but successful endoscopic closure of these fistulas has been reported. This case report describes our experience using fibrin glue, applied endoscopically in a 6-year-old child, with encouraging long-term results 4 years after treatment.
VATER Association.	Baby S began oral feedings on day 8 at 20 ml/kg/day. The infant reached full enteral feedings on day 11 and was subsequently advanced to an ad lib demand schedule. The broviac catheter was removed on day 13. An orthopedic surgeon was consulted to evaluate abnormalities of the upper extremities and hip laxity noted on admission examination. The orthopedic specialist found decreased abduction of the hips bilaterally with no instability and normal range of motion on exam. An ultrasound showed bilateral posterior subluxation with no frank dislocation. The infant was evaluated by a physical therapist and received daily splinting and stretching of the upper extremities, with continued evaluation planned following discharge. When the infant was discharged on day 15, she was breastfeeding on a demand schedule with bottle supplementation and continued to receive ranitidine and metoclopramide. Follow-up was scheduled with the cardiologist, the orthopedic surgeon, and the family physician.
Recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula after foreign body impaction.	We describe a case of recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula in a child previously operated for esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula following impaction of a foreign body. After extracting the foreign body, the diagnosis of recurrence was confirmed by esophagogram and bronchoscopy. The fistula was approached through transpleural thoracotomy and repair effected without significant difficulty. The possibility of unrecognized foreign body impactions as the etiological factor for late recurrence of tracheoesophageal fistula is discussed.
Appendiceal mass in a neonate after surgery for esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula: report of a case.	A 23-day-old girl presented with abdominal distension and vomiting. She had been previously operated on for esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula (EA/TEF) when she was 2 days old. An immediate laparotomy revealed an appendiceal mass caused by perforated appendicitis. The occurrence of appendicitis and an appendiceal mass is extremely rare in neonates and this may be the first such report in the world literature.
Ultrasonography of fetal esophagus: healthy appearance and prenatal diagnosis of a case of esophagus atresia with esotracheal fistula]	The thoracic part of a fetal esophagus is generally overlooked by usual prenatal ultrasonography. However, screening it might improve the detection rate of esophageal malformations for which prenatal diagnosis remains far from accurate. In this article, we describe the technique which makes it possible to get a precise image of a fetal thoracic esophagus in its more sensitive part: between the trachea and the aorta. After describing the appearance of a healthy thoracic esophagus, we will show how this technique can be used for prenatal detection of esophagus malformations. For this purpose, we provide the case report of a prenatal diagnosis of esophagus atresia with esotracheal fistula.
An overview of isolated and syndromic oesophageal atresia.	Oesophageal atresia (OA) and/or tracheo-oesophageal fistula (TOF) are frequent malformations observed in approximately one in 3500 births. OA/TOF can be divided clinically into isolated OA (IOA) and syndromic OA (SOA) when associated with other features, the most frequent being cardiac, limb and vertebral malformations or anal atresia. SOA is observed in 50% of patients and can be subdivided into several causative groups comprising environmental agents, chromosomal disorders, malformative associations (CHARGE syndrome and VATER/VACTERL association), and other multiple congenital anomaly disorders. The observation of chromosomal disorders with SOA, as well as mouse models of OA provide support for the involvement of genetic factors in OA. Yet, epidemiological data (twin and family studies) do not support the major role of genetic factors in the majority of cases of IOA but rather a multifactorial model. However, several genes involved in SOA have been recently identified, namely N-MYC, SOX2, and CHD7 involved in Feingold (MIM 164280), anophthalmia-oesophageal-genital (MIM 600992) and CHARGE syndromes respectively (MIM 214800), suggesting that OA/TOF, at least in their syndromic forms, may be a highly genetically heterogeneous group.
The diagnosis and management of recurrent tracheoesophageal fistulas.	This review provides a blueprint to deal with the diagnosis and management of recurrent tracheoesophageal fistulas.
Operative intercostal chest drain is not required following extrapleural or transpleural esophageal atresia repair.	Approximately half of the United Kingdom patients undergoing esophageal atresia (OA) repair have an operative intercostal chest drain (ICD) placed (2008 British Association of Pediatric Surgeons Congenital Anomalies Surveillance Study data). We reviewed our experience of OA repairs to evaluate if an ICD placement is necessary.
Experience with livaditis circular myotomy in management of long gap TEF.	Management of long gap oesophageal atresia with tracheoesophageal fistula (OA TEF) is challenging. Various intra-operative and pre-operative manures have been described to tackle this challenge. We reviewed our experiences with livaditis circular myotomy. The aim of this study was to evaluate long-term outcomes in cases of long gap OA TEF managed primarily with livaditis circular myotomy.
Neck cysts]	Cystic neck alterations are discussed. Practically important guidelines and possible pitfalls are outlined. The importance of a thorough preoperative evaluation is stressed, in order to obtain optimal surgical results.
Definitive localization of isolated tracheoesophageal fistula using bronchoscopy and esophagoscopy for guide wire placement.	To aid in identification of isolated tracheoesophageal fistulas (TEF), many surgeons have recommended the bronchoscopic placement of a ureteric or Fogarty catheter. This method can fail because of intraoperative dislodgment of the catheter. The authors present a new technique that enables us to definitively isolate and treat all H-type fistulas.
Perinatal management of unanticipated congenital laryngeal atresia.	Unless ventilation is achieved within minutes of delivery, patients with congenital laryngeal atresia will not survive. There are 2 settings in which survival is more likely: a tracheotomy may be immediately performed in the delivery room, or a communication may exist between the airway and the pharynx, allowing for air exchange. In the latter case, there are no characteristic findings on prenatal sonography to suggest the diagnosis and to ensure that preparations for immediate tracheotomy are made. We describe a neonate with unanticipated laryngeal atresia and a high tracheoesophageal fistula. Ventilation was maintained first by face mask and then by esophageal intubation until a tracheotomy could be performed. This report provides detailed photodocumentation of the anomaly, discusses the mechanism of air exchange, reviews the relevant embryological development, and outlines a protocol for perinatal management of unanticipated laryngeal atresia.
