Effect of chromium on vertebrae, femur and calvaria of adult male rats.	Alloys of chromium have a long history of success in the surgical treatment of many orthopaedic defects. Nonetheless, prostheses loosening are commonly found around arthoplasties due to corrosion of metals. On this basis, it is hypothesized that chromium accumulation interferes with remodeling of bone. The present study aims to analyse the toxic effects of chromium on bone phosphatases in various regions of the bone in rats. Rats were treated with chromium intraperitoneally (0.5 mg/kg) in the form of potassium dichromate for 5 days. The accumulation of chromium is approximately 5.2-fold in the vertebrae, 8.9-fold in the femur and 8.7-fold in the calvaria, when compared to control. Chromium administration significantly reduced the activity of enzymes, eg, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP). The study revealed a significant increase in the concentration of calcium, altered bone formation rate and bone morphology in the femur, vertebrae and calvaria. The interesting findings of the current study suggest altered bone turnover.
Eco-friendly rubberized cotton fabric roller for ginning machines.	This article discusses the pollution caused by chrome composite leather-clad (CCLC) rollers commonly used in cotton roller ginning mills and suggests an alternative roller material. CCLC rollers contain about 18,000 to 36,000 mg/kg (ppm) total chromium in trivalent and hexavalent forms, which are toxic to human health and carcinogenic. When seed-cotton is processed in double roller (DR) ginning machines, the lint is contaminated with chromium, and chromium particles are carried into the spun yarns and cotton by-products. Specifically, due to persistent rubbing of the leather-clad roller over the stationary knife during the ginning process, the lint is contaminated with about 140 to 1990 ppm of chromium, and the spun yarns and cotton by-products contain about 100 to 200 ppm, far in excess of the standard limit of 0.1 ppm. Gin and mill workers are directly exposed to this carcinogenic substance. To offset this problem, pollution-free rubberized cotton fabric (RCF) rollers have been fabricated and tested in roller gins. The RCF roller covering is made of multiple layers of fabric bonded together using a white rubber compound, which has a surface finish conducive to high ginning efficiency. This eliminates chromium contamination and pollution during the ginning process. On the basis of the design and development of various test rollers and subsequent evaluation studies, the performance of pollution-free RCF rollers has been demonstrated with reference to their commercial benefit and eco-friendliness in cotton ginning mills.
Complications of parenteral nutrition.	Parenteral nutrition plays a vital role for patients with intestinal failure and those who are unable to maintain oral or enteral nutrition alone. Parenteral nutrition has been shown to improve clinical outcome in patients with malnutrition and intestinal tract dysfunction. The use of parenteral nutrition is not without risk of serious complications. Parenteral nutrition complications can be divided into mechanical related to vascular access, septic, and metabolic. This article provides a review on the short- and long-term complications of parenteral nutrition and their management.
Potential exposure to carcinogens in low-melting alloys processing]	The objective in our study was to evaluate the worker's exposition to lead and cadmium in 32 radiology technicians in an eastern Sicily hospital in workers of low melting point alloy of lead, tin, cadmium and bismuth (league that can be melted at 73 degrees C as CERROBEND). Such alloy is used for the fabrication of objects used for the personal protection of cancer patients subject to high energy treatment. The parameters taken into consideration for this study were sex, age and smoking habits. In the test subject's working cycle reported in our case, there were traces of smoke formation containing lead, tin, bismuth and cadmium. Cadmium is a substance considered by IARC to be cancerous and can be found in both work and living environments, therefore it is often difficult to establish rather its presence in the organism is due to working activities and/or the living environment. In these cases it is necessary to evaluate whether the work represents an added risk to develop neoplasia, compared to the consequences due to normal environmental exposure. The added risk linked to work is evaluated comparing the concentration of toxic substances found in the living environments (Environmental Reference Value) with the toxic and/or metabolite found in the working environment, and comparing the biological reports of the population not directly exposed by work (Biological Reference Value) and those exposed. We performed a biological monitoring for lead and cadmium on the workers examined. The Italian Legislature, aside from lead, has not yet issued guidelines pertaining to professional exposure to cadmium, and therefore it is mandatory to take reference to the American Hygienist's charts both for environmental exposure (TLVs) andfor biological monitoring (BEI). Biological monitoring, which allows to evaluate the absorption by both inhalation and gastrointestinally, was performed through measuring the levels of lend and cadmium in the bloodstream (PbB and CdB) and the Cd in urine (CdU). The results show that in no case the levels of lead in the bloodstream (PbB) were above the reference value and BEI. The levels of cadmium urine (CdU) weren't above the reference level and the BEI, while the haematic levels of cadmium (CdB) were higher than the reference value in 8 subjects, each long time smokers, each of about 20 cigarettes a day. This data shows how, in the evaluation of exposition to cadmium, aside from the exam of data pertaining to work, the study of ways of absorption and the interpretation of the results of environmental and biological monitoring, it is important to consider the possibility of intoxication outside of the workplace. Cigarette smoke, as already indicated by other authors, is also confirmed in our studies as one of the major fonts of non professionally linked inhalation of cadmium.
Effects of thiuram, disulfiram and a trace element mixture on the incidence of tibial dyschondroplasia in chickens.	Two experiments were conducted to determine the effect of dietary addition of 30 ppm of thiuram or disulfiram on the development of tibial dyschondroplasia (a large mass of cartilage in the proximal end of the tibia) in chicks in the presence and absence of trace element supplementation: B, Ni, Al, Sr, Br, V, Si, Sn, Cr, F, Mo, Li, Mn, Zn, Fe, Cu and I. In two experiments, the incidence and severity of tibial dyschondroplasia were lower in chicks fed the diet containing the trace element supplement than in those fed the basal diet. Adding thiuram or disulfiram to the diet caused a significantly higher incidence and severity of tibial dyschondroplasia in chicks regardless of the presence or absence of the trace element supplement. In a third experiment not involving thiuram or disulfiram the addition of trace elements had no significant effect on tibial dyschondroplasia. Adding thiuram or disulfiram to the diet in a fourth experiment lowered the absorption of 47Ca from the gastrointestinal tract but did not influence the biological half-life of 47Ca in the chick.
Urban aerosol toxicity: the influence of particle size.	The basic thesis developed herein is that particle size is an extremely important parameter to consider when assessing the potential toxicity of species present in urban aerosols, and that surface adsorption or condensation greatly promotes toxicity. In the majority of cases this means that particles that are less than 1 micro.m in size are of primary importance. Special significance is attached to the organic constitutents of aerosols. Many of these are known or potential carcinogens and most predominate in extremely small particles which become deposited almost exclusively in the lung.
