Surgery of acquired laryngotracheal stenoses in childhood. Experiences and results from 1988 to 1998. I: Laryngotracheal reconstruction]	Subglottic laryngotracheal stenosis represents the most severe intubation injury and is increasingly encountered in children due to long-term ventilation during intensive care treatment. Since more than 90% of these children have tracheostomies their physical, psychosocial and speech development can be greatly impaired. A tracheostomy in infants can also be a potentially life-threatening condition, making necessary resolution of the laryngotracheal stenosis and removal of the tracheostoma as soon as possible. During the past 10 years, we have treated 46 children with laryngotracheal problems, including 18 children with severe laryngotracheal stenosis. Ten children (3 with grade II stenosis and 7 with grade III stenosis) were treated by laryngotracheal reconstruction using an anterior rib cartilage graft as described by Cotton. One child with posterior glottic stenosis required a posterior laminotomy with a second rib cartilage graft. Differing from the original method, we stabilized the enlarged endotracheal lumen postoperatively with a Montgomery t-tube. This was kept in place for 10 months on average (shortest period, 6 months; longest period, 12 months). All 10 children could be decannulated, and the tracheostoma closed. Three of the children were operated in other institutions and had a different technique prior to our intervention. Two of our operations failed initially. However, both patients were treated successfully by a second intervention (which was the fourth operation for one of the patients). The reasons for our modification, the operative technique and tips for postoperative management, as well as possible pitfalls and complications, are discussed.
Portable ultrasonic scanning of the anterior neck before percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy.	We used portable ultrasound scans to identify relevant anatomical structures in the necks of 30 patients before percutaneous tracheostomy. We identified the tracheal midline, thyroid isthmus and blood vessels and located a safe level for needle insertion. Anterior jugular veins were seen in 15 patients; eight were near the midline and were considered vulnerable. Three veins were more than 4 mm in diameter and these larger vessels were electively ligated. Four patients had arteries which were considered vulnerable to damage. All patients underwent successful percutaneous tracheostomy. Portable ultrasound provides a simple method of screening for vulnerable blood vessels in the neck and for locating the midline before percutaneous tracheostomy. This method is particularly suitable for patients with landmarks that are difficult to visualise or palpate. Based on the ultrasonic findings we can make an informed decision about referral for surgical tracheostomy.
Dilatational percutaneous tracheostomy: modification of technique.	Major inherent risks associated with percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy include loss of airway during endotracheal tube manipulation, inability to cannulate the trachea below the endotracheal tube, and difficulties related to neck anatomy.
Pressure-controlled ventilation via a minitracheostomy tube: experimental study using a mechanical lung model.	To obtain basic data on pressure-controlled ventilation (PCV) via a minitracheostomy tube (MTT), we conducted an experimental study using a mechanical lung model. MTTs with internal diameters of 4.0, 4.5-, and 5.0 mm were used. To examine the effectiveness of PCV via an MTT for the lung with low compliance, the ventilated volumes were measured at compliances ranging from 10 to 50 ml/cmH2O. The alveolar pressures and ventilated volumes of the 4.0-, 4.5-, and 5.0-mm MTTs were about 40%, 50%, and 60% of the values for the 8.0-mm endotracheal tube in the absence of air leakage, respectively, and in the presence of air leakage they fell a further 20%. To obtain a ventilated volume of 500 ml, the inspiratory pressures needed were 40, 30, and 20 cmH2O for the 4.0-, 4.5-, and 5.0-mm MTTs, respectively. In the model of low lung compliance (10 ml/ cmH2O), the ventilated volumes decreased to 40% of those seen in the normal compliance model (50 ml/cmH2O) at each inspiratory pressure, due to greater air leakage. PCV via an MTT produced acceptable ventilated volumes in the lung model with air leakage. However, our results indicate that under conditions of low lung compliance, PCV via a
Bronchoscopic transillumination guidance for open standard surgical tracheostomy.	The standard tracheostomy technique, described in 1909 by Jackson, has been increasingly used in intensive care units. Since 1957, several different types of percutaneous tracheostomy techniques have been described and performed with the support of bronchoscopic transillumination. The authors present the case of a respiratory failure due to obstruction of the upper airway by an exceptionally large goiter, which was successfully resolved by a standard open surgical tracheostomy. In this case, surgical tracheostomy was preceded by bronchoscopic transillumination, which facilitated identification of the appropriate tracheostomy site.
Tracheostomy: a must or elective procedure in laryngeal resection for cancer?]	The paper outlines 15-year experience in anesthesia perfection in laryngeal resections with polymeric endoprosthesis (tube endoprosthesis EG 1-4, TU 42-2-467-85) made in 115 patients with laryngeal cancer stage III; presents the analysis of complications in the above resection depending on the time of postoperative and decanulation and anesthesiological procedure. The authors propose methods of shortening the time to decanulation and even to avoid tracheostomy in transcutaneous jet high-frequency artificial lung ventilation.
Assessment of ventilation during the performance of elective endoscopic-guided percutaneous tracheostomy: clinical evaluation of a new method.	To evaluate the feasibility of uninterrupted translaryngeal open ventilation delivered through a pediatric, uncuffed endotracheal tube during percutaneous endoscopic tracheostomy (PET).
A new surgical technique for primary closure of long-term tracheostomy.	To delineate a technique that avoids the complications associated with surgical closure of long-term or permanent tracheostomy (LTT). Study design A case series that describes the technique and clinical outcomes.
The ALSFRSr predicts survival time in an ALS clinic population.	To determine whether the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale-revised (ALSFRSr), a predictor of survival time in ALS clinical trials, predicts survival time in an ALS clinic population.
Computed tomography--a possible aid in the diagnosis of smoke inhalation injury?	Inhalation injury is an important contributor to morbidity and mortality in burn victims and can trigger acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (1-3). Early diagnosis and treatment of inhalation injury are important, but a major problem in planning treatment and evaluating the prognosis has been the lack of consensus about diagnostic criteria (4). Chest radiographs on admission are often non-specific (5, 6), but indicators include indoor fires, facial burns, bronchoscopic findings of soot in the airways, and detection of carbon monoxide or cyanide in the blood (7). Changes in the lungs may be detected by bronchoscopy with biopsy, xenon imaging, or measurement of pulmonary extracellular fluid (4, 5, 8). These methods have, however, been associated with low sensitivity and specificity, as exemplified by the 50% predictive value in the study of Masanes et al. (8). Computed tomographs (CTs) are better than normal chest radiographs in the detection of other pulmonary lesions such as pulmonary contusion (9, 10). The importance of CT scans in patients with ARDS has been reviewed recently (9), but unfortunately there has been no experience of CT in patients with smoke inhalation injury. To our knowledge, there are only two animal studies reporting that smoke inhalation injury can be detected by CT (4, 11); specific changes in human CT scans have not yet been described. Therefore, confronted with a patient with severe respiratory failure after a burn who from the history and physical examination showed the classic risk factors for inhalation injury, we decided to request a CT.
Percutaneous tracheostomy to the patient with coagulopathy]	Generally, coagulopathy is a relative contraindication for surgical tracheotomy.
Surgical management of tracheobronchial disease.	Management of tracheobronchial disease requires careful preoperative evaluation and close cooperation between anesthesiologic and surgical procedures. Techniques are available to resect and reconstruct most benign and malignant diseases of the tracheobronchial tree. Good surgical results depend on proper selection of patients, precise surgical technique, and careful attention to postoperative care.
Systematic review and meta-analysis of studies of the timing of tracheostomy in adult patients undergoing artificial ventilation.	To compare outcomes in critically ill patients undergoing artificial ventilation who received a tracheostomy early or late in their treatment.
Cervical interventions on the airway and esophagus in infiltrating thyroid cancer]	In 1989 und 1990 a resection within the region of the cervical airways and/or oesophagus was performed for an infiltrating tumor in 9 out of 95 patients (9.5%) suffering from thyroid carcinoma and in one patient with lymph node metastases from a carcinoma of the uterine cervix. There was no operative mortality. One patient died six weeks after resecting the anterior wall of the trachea of an intratracheal arterial bleeding due to radiation therapy. In one case the reconstruction of the trachea was performed with autologous material, in three patients alloplastic material was used. The oesophagus was reconstructed preferably by means of free microvascular jejunum autografts (n = 4), using a colon interposition in another two patients. In locally advanced differentiated and medullary thyroid carcinoma curative operations of the cervical hollow organs using microsurgical techniques can be performed with an acceptable operative risk and good functional results. They may markedly improve the otherwise limited prognosis of the disease.
Emergency airway management of a patient with mediastinal mass.	Appropriate airway management is an essential part of anaesthesiologist's role. Extrinsic airway compression by rapidly growing mediastinal masses represents a therapeutic challenge to anaesthesiologists. We report a case of successful airway management in a patient with obstructed airway. The patient was a middle aged female who presented with severe respiratory distress secondary to a huge mediastinal mass. CT scan showed widened superior mediastinum with circumferential narrowing of trachea and left main bronchus. Her condition continued to deteriorate during her hospital admission, so emergency intubation and tracheostomy was planned. She was intubated with the help of a bougie using size 6 microlaryngoscopic tube after inhalational induction and mediastinal tracheostomy was done. Intraoperatively, there were few episodes of hypotension and desaturation, otherwise rest of intraoperative course remained uneventful.
Percutaneous tracheostomy in ventilated patients]	Percutaneous tracheostomy is an alternative to conventional surgical tracheostomy. It is associated to a more feasible procedure, that is less invasive and linked to a lower degree of complications. Herein, we review our experience since the implementation of this technique in our Department.
Role of ultrasound in the airway management of critically ill patients.	Ultrasound imaging of the upper airway in critically ill patients offers a number of attractive advantages compared with competitive imaging techniques or endoscopy. It is widely available, portable, repeatable, relatively inexpensive, pain-free, and safe. In this review article, I describe ultrasonographic anatomy of the upper respiratory organs and present the main potential applications of ultrasonography in airway management. The role of ultrasound in endotracheal tube placement, including preintubation assessment, verification of tube position, double-lumen intubation, and extubation outcome, are explained. Also, ultrasound-guided percutaneous tracheostomy, the role of ultrasound in using the laryngeal mask airway, and upper airway anesthesia are described.
Surgical treatment of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS)	Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome patients usually present with multiple areas of anatomic disproportions. The site or sites of obstruction must be accurately diagnosed preoperatively by a systematic means of examining the patient. This includes nasopharyngoscopy with Muller maneuver and sometimes cephalometrics. The surgical treatment is individualized to the site or sites of obstruction and can include tracheostomy, septoplasty, UPPP, geniohyoid advancement and suspension of the hyoid. For extreme cases advancement of the maxilla, mandible and hyoid bone are sometimes necessary.
Percutaneous versus surgical bedside tracheostomy in the intensive care unit: a cohort study.	To compare the outcomes, as well as the short and long term complications, of percutaneous dilational tracheostomy (PDT) and surgical tracheostomy (ST) at the bedside.
Dilatative percutaneous tracheostomy during double antiplatelet therapy: two consecutive cases.	This article reports two cases of dilatative percutaneous tracheostomy performed on patients treated with double antiplatelet therapy. Both patients had cardiac arrest following myocardial infarction. After primary angioplasty with stent placement, a double antiplatelet therapy was started. Due to poor neurological outcome, dilatative percutaneous tracheostomy was performed on both patients. Antiplatelet therapy was not discontinued because of the unacceptable risk of stent thrombosis. No immediate or late hemorrhagic complications occurred. In our experience, dilatative percutaneous tracheostomy during double antiplatelet therapy can be safely performed in selected patients without other risk factors.
Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma (with Kasabach Merritt syndrome) of the head and neck: case report and review of the literature.	An infant initially diagnosed with a parotid hemangioma presented with stridor and thrombocytopenia. Diagnosis of Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma was confirmed with biopsy. The child succumbed to multi-system organ failure related to consumptive coagulopathy despite aggressive medical management. Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma is a rare head and neck tumor that may be mistaken for a hemangioma on preliminary diagnosis, which may lead to increased morbidity and mortality especially in the setting of Kasabach-Merritt phenomenon. A platelet count may provide an early and important clue to the possibility of coagulopathy; prompting physicians to look for a diagnosis other than a simple hemangioma.
Pediatric tracheostomy: complications and role of home care in a developing country.	Tracheotomy in its earlier days was most commonly performed for acute airway infection in children. Its indications are now changing; it is now most commonly performed for congenital malformations (McMurray and Prescott in Practical pediatric otolaryngology. W.B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, pp 575-592, 1996). This shift in indication has increased the rate of survival of such patients, and therefore the number of children going home after tracheostomy has also increased.
The two stage tracheostomy as a safe technique in instances of severe coagulopathy.	A simple two stage tracheostomy procedure is described for use in respirator-dependent patients in intensive care units. It is useful in patients in whom tracheostomy is indicated, but refractory coagulopathy is a deterrent.
Italian experience of voice restoration after laryngectomy with tracheoesophageal puncture.	This report concerns 102 cases of tracheoesophageal puncture performed as a means of secondary voice restoration after total laryngectomy, in 70 patients proving unable to learn esophageal speech and as a treatment of choice in a further 32 cases. Complications arose in 21 cases but were generally minor and could be overcome. Results were favorable in 45 of 70 and 29 of 32 cases, respectively. The method was considered effective, particularly when supported by the patient's determination to learn a verbal communication method.
Early tracheostomy in intensive care unit: a retrospective study of 506 cases of video-guided Ciaglia Blue Rhino tracheostomies.	Percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) is a common procedure in critically ill patients, but the correct timing is still controversial. This study was designed to establish whether an early timing in video-guided Ciaglia Blue Rhino PDT affects the duration of mechanical ventilation (MV) and the length of stay (LOS) in intensive care unit (ICU). Secondary clinical outcomes were the overall hospitalization duration and the mortality rate.
NIPPV: prevalence, approach and barriers to use at Canadian ALS centres.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate Canadian amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) centres with respect to: 1) the prevalence of Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) and invasive mechanical ventilation via tracheostomy (TV) utilization, 2) the approach to NIPPV use, focusing upon the currently employed initiation criteria and 3) the barriers influencing NIPPV administration.
Lateral mediastinal tracheostomy in benign disease: an uncommon procedure for a rare indication.	Tracheostomy is sometimes required for long-term ventilation in patients with a challenging cervical anatomy. We present a case of a patient requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation with prohibitive cervical anatomy for standard tracheostomy secondary to severe ankylosing spondylitis and a cervical spine fracture.
Management of the difficult airway.	The oral and maxillofacial surgeon frequently encounters and manages difficult airways. Knowledge of and calm progression by practitioner and staff through different means to ventilate and manage a difficult airway are crucial. Practitioners should become comfortable with different types of alternative or rescue airways in order to intervene quickly in case of emergent or unanticipated airway compromise.
Method to introduce mannitol powder to intubated patients to improve sputum clearance.	Poor sputum clearance is a common problem encountered in intubated patients, which may cause airway obstruction, hypoxaemia, and increased risk of lower respiratory tract infection. This may result in longer intensive care unit (ICU) stay or even death. Dry powder mannitol has been shown to improve sputum clearance, and thus we developed a system to deliver it to intubated patients.
Standardization of a method of prolonged thoracic surgery and mechanical ventilation in rats to evaluate local and systemic inflammation.	To evaluate the immediate pulmonary and systemic inflammatory response after a long-term operative period.
The influence of peak airway pressure and oxygen requirement on infant tracheostomy.	To determine if and how the preoperative peak airway pressure and oxygen requirement of an infant (less than 6 months of age) who requires mechanical ventilation influences the physician's decision to perform a tracheostomy on that infant.
Paediatric patients with a tracheostomy: a multicentre epidemiological study.	Changes in the indications for tracheostomy in children have led to the progressively greater involvement of the paediatric pulmonologist in the care of these patients. The aim of this study was to review the current profile of tracheostomised children in Spain. We undertook a longitudinal, multicentre study over 2 yrs (2008 and 2009) of all patients aged between 1 day and 18 yrs who had a tracheostomy. The study, involving 18 Spanish hospitals, included 249 patients, of whom 150 (60.2%) were <1 yr of age. The main indications for the procedure were prolonged ventilation (n=156, 62.6%), acquired subglottic stenosis (n=34, 13.6%), congenital or acquired craniofacial anomalies (n=25, 10%) and congenital airway anomalies (n=24, 9.6%). The most frequent underlying disorders were neurological diseases (n=126, 50.6%) and respiratory diseases (n=98, 39.3%). Over the 2-yr study period, 92 (36.9%) children required ventilatory support, and decannulation was achieved in 59 (23.7%). Complications arose in 117 patients (46.9%). Mortality attributed to the underlying condition was 12.5% and that related directly to the tracheostomy was 3.2%. Respiratory complexity of tracheostomised children necessitates prolonged, multidisciplinary follow-up, which can often extend to adulthood.
Early tracheostomy is associated with improved outcomes in patients who require prolonged mechanical ventilation after cardiac surgery.	The best time to perform a tracheostomy in cardiac surgery patients who require prolonged postoperative mechanical ventilation remains unknown. The primary aim of this investigation was to determine if tracheostomy performed before postoperative day 10 improves patient outcomes.
S-shaped tracheostoma in pediatric tracheostomy using three-dimensional sigma-plasty--a novel technique to possibly reduce procedure related complications.	We have designed a technique of tracheostomy in pediatric patients with S-shaped incision on the tracheal wall which we think, provides a larger cross-sectional area of stoma and facilitates easier insertion of tracheostomy tube and thus helped in reducing early and late complications associated with it in our series.
Diagnosis and treatment of postintubation tracheal stenosis]	There was analyzed the experience of diagnosis and surgical treatment of 61 patients, aged from 2 to 69 years old, including 43 (70.5%) men and 18 (29.5%) women, in whom after a tracheal intubation with durable pulmonary ventilation, performed for an acute respiratory insufficiency, a tracheal stenosis have had occurred. A tracheal stenosis was manifested by a stridorous kind of respiration, the diagnosis was confirmed by the endoscopic investigation and a computer tomography data. Conservative and endoscopic treatment was effective in 10 (16.4%) patients, operative intervention--circular resection with a primary tracheal anastomosis formation and a staged treatment with tracheostomy and a T-kind silicone tube insertion--was performed in 51 (83.6%) patients. Good and fair results were achieved in 70% of the patients.
Ex utero intrapartum treatment in the management of giant cervical teratomas.	The purpose of this study is to present the outcome and technical details of the Ex Utero Intrapartum Treatment (EXIT) procedure performed in the management of the fetus with a giant cervical teratoma.
Two days with a broken knife blade in the neck--an interesting case of Horner's syndrome.	A 25-year-old man presented to the Emergency department in a rural South African hospital after a left, submental neck stab with a knife. Examination was deemed unremarkable, and the patient was discharged, but re-attended 2 days later complaining of a painful, swollen neck. Further examination identified Horner's syndrome, and further investigation revealed that the blade of the knife had remained in the patient's neck. This was successfully removed in theatre. This case illustrates the importance of careful history, examination and diagnostic imaging in the management of penetrating neck injuries. Horner's syndrome can be easily missed in a busy Emergency department and may indicate life-threatening pathology in the context of neck trauma. The difficulties in assessing and managing this type of injury are discussed.
Cerebrospinal fluid leak associated with nasal continuous positive airway pressure treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea.	Clear rhinorrhoea is a common symptom in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), which may worsen with nasal continuous positive airway pressure treatment (nCPAP). However, rhinorrhoea can also be the presenting symptom of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak, which is due to a communication between the subarachnoid space and the nasal cavity or sinuses. We report another case of a patient with OSA in whom CSF leak developed following the initiation of nCPAP treatment.
Failed intubation and failed oxygenation in a child.	A 'can't intubate, can't oxygenate' scenario in a child is fortunately extremely rare. We report a case of this life-threatening event in a four-year-old boy suffering from a rare genetic disorder, fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva. He presented for manipulation of his dislocated jaw and was identified preoperatively as having a difficult airway. Despite extensive preparation, a catastrophic loss of airway control occurred minutes after induction of general anaesthesia, necessitating a life saving emergency tracheostomy. This report highlights the small evidence base and lack of definitive algorithms relating to how best to rescue a paediatric 'can't intubate, can't oxygenate' situation. Paediatric anatomical factors dictate that immediate procession to a tracheal surgical airway may be the optimal management.
Percutaneous dilational and surgical tracheostomy in burn patients: incidence of complications and dysphagia.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the incidence of complications and dysphagia in relation to the timing of tracheostomy and tracheostomy technique in 49 consecutive adult burn patients. We analysed prospectively collected data. Bronchoscopy was used to diagnose tracheal stenosis and a modified Evans blue dye test was used to diagnose dysphagia. Eighteen patients received a percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) and thirty-one patients received an open surgical tracheostomy (OST). Eight patients developed significant complications (16%) following tracheostomy, there is no difference in the incidence of complications; post op infection, stoma infection or tracheal stenosis between PDT and OST groups. Patients with full thickness neck burn who developed complications had a tracheostomy significantly earlier following autografting (p=0.05). Failed extubation is associated with dysphagia (p=0.02) whereas prolonged intubation and ventilation prior to tracheostomy independently predicts dysphagia (p=0.03). We conclude that there is no difference in the complication rates for PDT and OST in our burn patients. We recommend early closure of neck burns and tracheostomy through fully adherent autograft or at least 10 days after grafting to reduce stomal infections. For patients with no neck burn, we support early tracheostomy to reduce the likelihood of dysphagia. 
Ulcerative tracheobronchitis due to Aspergillus.	Aspergillus ulcerative tracheobronchitis is a life-threatening form of invasive aspergillosis and is seldom seen in patients without underlying an immunocompromised state. Bronchoscopists must be familiar with this entity and consider Aspergillus ulcerative tracheobronchitis whenever mucosal erosions are seen, especially when unconventional risk factors such as intensive care unit admission and short-term glucocorticoid therapy are present. We present a case of invasive Aspergillus causing widespread ulcerative tracheobronchitis in a 39-year-old man with an asthma exacerbation requiring intensive care unit admission. 
Temporary tracheostomy.	Upper airway obstruction can be due to a variety of causes in small animal patients and is often life threatening if left untreated. Placement of a temporary tracheostomy tube may be necessary in the most severe cases of upper airway obstruction until definitive therapy can be implemented. This paper discusses the indications, technique for placement, maintenance, and complications associated with temporary tracheostomy in dogs and cats. 
Comparison of 2 techniques of tracheocutaneous fistula closure: analysis of outcomes and health care use.	Tracheocutaneous fistula (TCF) can be repaired using various techniques. This research is an outcomes and health care use comparative analysis of 2 commonly used techniques to repair TCF.
Planning and management of long-standing tracheostomy.	Long-term effects of tracheostomy can include structural changes in the anterior tracheal wall and larynx as a result of pressure, friction, and deformation by the relationship between the curved cannula, the trachea, the larynx, and the upper border of the sternum. High-placed stoma, flexed cervical position, and short, obese necks are predisposing anatomic relationships. In some long-standing tracheostomies, progressive erosion of the upper anterior tracheal wall and cricoid arch is observed, often with secondary subglottic stenosis. No discussion of measures to prevent or correct these problems was found in a review of the literature. This article discusses surgical techniques to (1) prevent laryngotracheal erosion and (2) repair and reconstruct an airway that is already damaged. A superiorly based tracheostomy flap and a muscular sling are designed to buttress the tracheostomy. Results and follow-up are also reported.
A Seldinger technique for minitracheostomy insertion.	Minitracheostomy is a valuable technique in patients with sputum retention. However, insertion of a minitracheostomy tube over a dilator passed through an incision through the cricothyroid membrane (the suggested method of insertion of the 'Mini-trach II', [Portex]), can prove difficult. A Seldinger method is described which results in easier and more reliable placement in difficult cases.
