Trace element levels in whole blood samples from residents of the city Badajoz, Spain.	Copper, lead, cadmium, and zinc were determined by anodic stripping voltammetry after sample digestion and potentiometric stripping analysis was used for Pb and Cd determination in original samples. Selenium was determined by cathodic stripping voltammetry or hydride generation AAS. Element levels found in the whole blood sample in a group of 82 people are for Cd: 0.98 +/- 0.94 ng/ml; for Pb: 46.7 +/- 28.6 ng/ml; for Cu: 1.07 +/- 0.12 micrograms/ml; for Zn: 6.95 +/- 1.08 micrograms/ml, and for Se: 116 +/- 25 ng/ml. Analytical data have been correlated to age, sex, smokers or non-smokers, drinking and food habits.
Reference values for trace and ultratrace elements in human serum determined by double-focusing ICP-MS.	Reference values for trace and ultratrace elements concentrations in healthy human serum, measured by double-focusing inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), are presented. Blood donors from Asturias (Spain) were selected as the reference population (n=59). Blood samples were collected, after donation, taking the necessary precautions to avoid contamination. All subjects analyzed had normal renal function and nutritional status, as shown from their creatinine and albumin levels. A total number of 14 elements (Al, Ca, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Cu, Zn, Rb, Sr, Mo, Cd, Pb, and U) were monitored almost simultaneously. Serum samples were diluted 1+4 with ultrapure water and matrix interferences were corrected using Sc, Ga, Y, and Tl as internal standards. Fe, Cu, and Zn were also determined by isotope dilution analysis (IDA). Reference trace element concentrations intervals observed containing 95% of the reference distribution after excluding outliers are presented. Fourteen serum samples from hemodialysis patients were also analyzed for comparison. High levels of Al, Cr, Sr, Mo, Mn, Pb, U, Co, and Cu and low levels of Fe, Zn, and Rb were found in the serum samples from hemodialysis patients compared to the corresponding reference values observed in this work.
Effects of inflammation and antiinflammatory treatment on serum trace elements concentrations.	We investigated the serum concentrations of zinc and copper during the inflammatory process together with the effect of treatment with a nonsteroid anti-inflammatory agent on these trace elements concentrations. In the present study, we used 92 guinea pigs, 12 of which constituted the control group; the remaining 80 were the experimental group. To start with, proquazone (as anti-inflammatory agent) was administered orally to 40 guinea pigs of the experimental group at 20-mg/kg doses 2 h before the surgery. Throughout the experimental period, the above dose was administered to the animals twice a day. We produced inflammation in all animals of the experimental group by using carrageenan (inflammatory agent) dropped into mandibular surgical defects. Serum concentrations of zinc and copper were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry in both groups at the 6th, 48th, 120th, 168th, and 240th h. The serum zinc concentrations of the carrageenan-administered group decreased significantly (p<0.01). When comparing the serum zinc concentrations of the carrageenan plus proquazone-administered group with those of control group, the decrease (p<0.05) at the 6th, 48th, and 120th h were statistically significant. When the copper serum concentrations of the carrageenan-administered group were compared with those of the control group, at the 48th, 120th, and 168th h, a statistically significant increase (p<0.01) was observed. However, there was no significant change in the carrageenan plus proquazone-administered group at the 168th and 240th h. As a result decreased, whereas serum copper concentrations increased. The alterations in zinc concentrations were more rapid than those in copper concentrations, but the administration of proquazone slowed the rate of decrease in serum zinc concentrations.
Free radical disease prevention and nutrition.	An improved antioxidant status (overthreshold plasma values of essential antioxidants) minimizes the oxidative damage. The levels of antioxidant vitamins C and E, ,,antioxidant" trace elements selenium, zinc, copper and iron were measured in two groups of adults with different nutritional habits--alternative (vegetarians; n=110) and traditional (mixed diet, control, n=101). The prevalence of iron and zinc deficiencies was found in the alternative group (20% vs 11%--iron, 13% vs 9%--zinc) as a consequence of higher intake of plant trace element absorption inhibitors. As opposed to the latter, the control group had higher findings of iron and copper levels over the optimal range (18% vs 8%--iron, 11% vs 2%--copper). The subjects on mixed diet was showed a significant negative linear correlation between serum zinc and iron levels. This favourable relationship means a decrease in Fenton reaction by indirect zinc effect. Average plasma values of vitamin C, vitamin C/vitamin E, vitamin E/ cholesterol (LDL protection), vitamin E/triacylglycerols (polyunsaturated fatty acid protection) in vegetarians are over the threshold with high number of individual overthreshold values (94% vs 17%--vitamin C, 100% vs 58%--vitamin C/vitamin E, 89% vs 68%--vitamin E/cholesterol, 100% vs 64%--vitamin E/triacylglycerols). Homocysteine levels in vegetarians (36% atherogenic levels) correlate significantly inversely to vitamin C levels, the fact of which means a positive vitamin C effect in free radical remove also in hyperhomocysteinemia. Plant food is a rich source of antioxidants. A correct vegetarian nutrition or optimized mixed diets with regular and frequent consumption of protective food commodities may be an effective contribution to the age-related chronic degenerative disease prevention. (Tab. 2, Fig. 2, Ref. 31.).
Reducing effect of ingesting tannic acid on the absorption of iron, but not of zinc, copper and manganese by rats.	Interest in the beneficial effects of polyphenols, including tannic acid (TA), is increasing, although, these compounds also have adverse effects; for example, on the absorption of iron (Fe), and possibly other trace minerals. We examined the effect of a graded dose of TA on the absorption of Fe and compared with that of zinc (Zn), copper (Cu) and manganese (Mn) in rats. We also investigated the effect of TA on cecal fermentation which plays a role in absorption. In Experiment 1, to set the optimum dose of Fe, male Sprague-Dawley rats (weighing 70-90 g) after acclimatization were fed with different levels of dietary Fe (5, 10, 20, 30 and 35 mg/kg). We observed that the hematocrit (Ht), serum Fe concentration and transferrin saturation (%) were each reduced in those rats fed less than 20 mg/kg Fe in a dose-dependent manner. In Experiment 2, the rats were fed with test diets containing the minimum required level of Fe, 30 mg/kg diet, with (5, 10, 15 and 20 g/kg diet) or without TA for a period of three weeks. Feeding a diet containing more than 10 g TA/kg diet, but not 5 g TA/kg diet, reduced the hemoglobin concentration (Hb), Ht and serum Fe concentration due to decreased Fe absorption. In contrast, the Zn, Cu and Mn absorption was not affected by TA feeding. It is also demonstrated that liver Fe, but not the Zn, Cu and Mn contents, were lower in the TA groups than in the TA-free control group. Feeding TA slightly decreased the pH value of the cecal contents with an increase in the major short-chain fatty acid pool. About 15% of the ingested TA were recovered in the feces of each TA-fed group. Our results demonstrate that more than 10 g TA/kg diet induced anemia by reducing the Fe absorption, although there was no effect on the absorption of other important trace minerals. Our findings suggest that the usual intake of polyphenols is relatively safe, but that a high intake by supplementation or by dietary habit of tannin affects only the Fe level.
Plasma manganese, selenium, zinc, copper, and iron concentrations in patients with schizophrenia.	A number of essential trace elements play a major role in various metabolic pathways. Selenium (Se), manganese (Mn), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), and iron (Fe) are essential trace elements that have been studied in many diseases, including autoimmune, neurological, and psychiatric disorders. However, the findings of previous research on the status of trace elements in patients with schizophrenia have been controversial. We studied these elements in patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia and compared them with sex- and age-matched healthy controls. Plasma Cu concentrations were significantly higher (p < 0.01) and Mn and Fe concentrations were lower (p < 0.05 and p < 0.05, respectively) in schizophrenic patients than in controls. Se and Zn concentrations and protein levels did not differ between patients and healthy controls. These observations suggest that alterations in essential trace elements Mn, Cu, and Fe may play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. However, findings from trace element levels in schizophrenia show a variety of results that are difficult to interpret.
Effects of statins on oxidative stress.	Free oxygen radicals and insufficient antioxidant enzymes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of hypercholesterolemia (HC). Trace elements function as cofactors in antioxidant enzymes. Antioxidant system and trace elements were investigated in many different studies including HC, but these subjects have not been investigated as a whole in these patients. The aim of the present study was to investigate the antioxidative system and trace elements in hypercholesterolemic patients given fluvastatin therapy. We examined malondialdehyde (MDA), copper zinc-superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities together with copper (Cu), iron (Fe), and zinc (Zn) levels in erythrocytes of 35 patients with HC and 27 healthy control subjects. It was found that in patients with HC, erythrocyte MDA was significantly higher than those of controls and erythrocyte CuZn-SOD and GSH-Px activities were significantly lower in patients with HC. Erythrocyte iron levels were significantly higher than those of controls, and erythrocyte copper and zinc levels were significantly lower in patients with HC. Plasma lipid levels and the oxidative state were analyzed in statin-treatment groups given fluvastatin therapy before and after a 3-mo treatment period. In conclusion, we found that fluvastatin has significant antioxidant properties and these effects might be very important in managing dyslipidemia by improving endothelial function.
Serum changes in trace elements during thyroid cancers.	The objective was to examine changes in trace elements due to thyroid cancer in humans. Serum levels and tissue contents of trace elements (Zn, Cu, Mn, Mg, Fe and Se) were measured in 43 patients with thyroid cancer before and 4 days after surgery were compared to normal values. The serum levels of zinc in cancer patients were lower than those of normal subjects. Surgical removal of the cancer resulted in the restoration of these levels. Although serum Cu levels in patients were not different from normal, but post-operatively these levels rose significantly (p < 0.001). Levels of Fe, Mg and Mn were significantly lower (p < 0.001) post-operatively. There was no significant change in Serum Se levels. The thyroid tissue contents of these trace elements did not show a difference between the normal (Juxta-tumor) thyroid tissue and the cancerous lesion. Out of the six trace elements examined, the decrease of serum levels of zinc in cancer patients may be linked to the disease condition. It is suggested that this change: (a) may be used to demonstrate successful cancer surgery and (b) may have implications for a long-term follow-up of thyroid cancer patients.
Levels of some trace elements and rheumatoid factor in sheep with brucellosis.	Brucellosis is a zoonotic disease that is encountered in sheep rather frequently. In this study, 100 sheep diagnosed with brucellosis that had aborts and 40 healthy sheep were used as materials. Analyses for Cu, Zn, Fe, Cr, Ca, Mg, and K were performed with the atomic absorption spectrophotometric method on blood collected from vena jugularis of all the sheep and rheumatoid factor levels were determined by the nephelometry method. Although it was found that Cu, Ca, and rheumatoid factor values in the sera of the sheep with brucellosis were high when compared to the control group (p<0.001, p<0.05, p<0.001, respectively), their serum Zn values were low (p<0.05). No significant changes in serum Cr, Fe, K, and Mg levels were found.
Plasma trace elements, vitamin B12, folate, and homocysteine levels in cirrhotic patients compared to healthy controls.	Increased serum homocysteine (Hcy) can induce liver diseases and can play a remarkable role in hepatic disorders. The purpose of the present study therefore was to investigate the relationship between serum vitamin B(12), folate, zinc and copper, cysteine, and Hcy level differences between cirrhotic patients and healthy subjects. We studied 32 cirrhotic patients (12 females and 20 males) aged 45 +/- 11 years and 32 control subjects (12 females and 20 males) aged 39 +/- 9 years. There was an inverse correlation between Hcy and vitamin B(12) in controls (r = -0.442, p < 0.011) but not in cirrhotic patients (r = -0.147, not significant). Also, mean plasma folate was decreased in cirrhotic patients compared to controls (p < 0.001). Copper increased whereas zinc decreased significantly in cirrhotic patients. A positive correlation was seen between the Cu/Zn ratio and Cu in controls (r = 0.690, p < 0.01), but the correlation between the Cu/Zn ratio and Cu was not significant in the cirrhotic group. Negative correlations were seen between plasma concentration of zinc and the Cu/Zn ratio in controls and cirrhotic patients (r = -0.618, p < 0.01 and r = -0.670, p < 0.01, respectively). Cirrhotic patients displayed multiple abnormalities, including changes in cysteine metabolism and in zinc and copper levels. Although hyperhomocysteinemia is known as an atherogenic and thrombogenic risk factor for cardiovascular disease, it might also be a risk factor for cirrhotic patients. Plasma Hcy, vitamin B(12), and folic acid measurement may be useful in the evaluation of cirrhotic patients.
Enhanced erythrocytic lipid peroxides and reduced plasma ascorbic acid, and alteration in blood trace elements level in dairy cows with mastitis.	Oxidative stress has been associated in several inflammatory conditions and incriminated in the pathogenesis of many diseases. However, little information is available on the status of plasma antioxidant levels, essential components of important antioxidant enzymes such as copper, zinc and selenium in blood, and the end product of oxidative damage to the erythrocytic polyunsaturated fatty acids in inflammatory udder conditions. Blood samples were collected from three groups of dairy cows, with 21 in each group: animals with healthy udder, clinical mastitis, and subclinical mastitis. These animals were randomly selected from a herd on the basis of the California mastitis test, somatic cell count and total bacterial count. The mean plasma ascorbic acid concentration was significantly lower in cows with subclinical (p = 0.004) and clinical mastitis (p = 0.000) and the erythrocytic lipid peroxide levels were significantly (p = 0.000) higher in clinical mastitis as compared to controls. There was a significant decrease in mean blood zinc concentration in subclinical (p = 0.005) and clinical mastitis (p = 0.000), but an increase in mean blood copper level in the clinical mastitis group. It was concluded that the blood antioxidant status declines in inflammatory udder conditions, suggesting that incorporation of antioxidants may help in better management of mastitis in dairy cows.
Erythrocyte antioxidant activity, serum ceruloplasmin, and trace element levels in subjects with alcoholic liver disease.	Erythrocyte antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase) and reduced glutathione, serum ceruloplasmin, and serum trace elements (copper, zinc, iron, and selenium) related to antioxidant enzymes were assayed in subjects with alcoholic liver disease of different degrees of severity. The erythrocytes of subjects with moderate and severe alcoholic liver cirrhosis had an unbalanced antioxidant system (normal superoxide dismutase, low catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities, and low glutathione content). Serum ceruloplasmin levels were in the normal range. Levels of the serum trace elements zinc and selenium were significantly low in subjects with moderate and severe cirrhosis, whose red cell half-life was also significantly short, as measured by radioactive chromium. These data suggest that the erythrocytes of subjects with moderate and severe alcoholic liver cirrhosis are less protected against oxidant stress. The particular erythrocyte antioxidant system and serum trace element pattern may play a role in the genesis of hemolytic disorders and of alcoholic hepatic damage.
Effects of surgical complications on trace element metabolism in patients with cardio-esophageal and esophageal cancer]	The homeostatic features of trace elements were studied in 48 patients with cardio-esophageal and esophageal carcinoma in development of incompetence of the anastomosis sutures (17), peritonitis (19), and intestinal fistulas (12). The level of the trace elements was determined in the red cells, blood plasma, and urine by emission plasma spectrometry. With the development of surgical complications after operation on the stomach and esophagus, the metabolism of trace elements was sharply disturbed, catabolic processes prevailed and were manifested by the escape of essential trace elements from the cells and their excretion in the urine. The changes of trace elements metabolism were more profound in peritonitis and intestinal fistulas. Complex intensive therapy including artificial feeding corrected partly the metabolic disorders.
Trace elements and the electroencephalogram during long-term lithium treatment.	Endogenous bromine has been found to be raised during lithium treatment, and it has been suggested that it may augment the therapeutic effect of lithium. Our findings in a study of 12 patients and 12 controls support this contention. Electroencephalographic effects of bromine, vanadium and aluminium were studied--higher bromine and vanadium levels were associated with irregular cortical activity. Electroencephalographic abnormalities were associated with more side-effects of lithium.
The season changes of mineral and trace elements contents in blood patients with ulcer pathology gastric and intestinal duodenal]	There are two concepts of homeostasis microelements: a traditional one, considering homeostasis as a constancy of internal media of alive organisms, and an alternative, examining the change of structure of these media in time as a consequence of change of external factors. In the first concept the deviation of concentration of a microelement from norm in whey of blood is considered a diagnostic attribute of microelementose (deficiency or surplus). In the second concept, on the contrary, it is supposed, that such deviations can have the adaptive character assisting to an organism in struggle against illness. At three-year research of 436 patients by a stomach ulcer and duodenal we have revealed precise patterns of seasonal changes of homeostasis the basic seven elements of whey of blood--Na, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Cu and Fe which differ from similar time functions for healthy people and can be explained only on the basis of the assumption about protective adaptations an organism at the given pathology. As functions of time it is considered two homeostasis parameters--a level of concentration and capacity homeostasis which are determined not by processes of absorption, deducing and depositions, but requirements of a cellular level of a feed.
The homeostatic changes of mineral and trace elements during of year at rheumatoid arthritis]	Dietetic therapy on a basis of specially developed variant anti-inflammatory, hypoallergic, hyposodium diets 10 PA, applied in Clinic of Institute of Nutrition Russian Academy of Medical Science for treatment of patients rheumatoid an arthritis, has yielded the positive clinical results comparable to efficiency of medicinal therapy. Two-year-old researches have allowed to receive representative enough (756 element-definition) a material on macro- and to microelement structure of plasma of blood of patients and its seasonal dynamics determined by interaction two neurohumoral systems. For two elements--K and Zn, changes of concentration in whey of blood during one year it was revealed not, but for others five investigated elements--Na, Ca, Mg, Cu and Fe, curves with appreciable maxima and minima of contents which did not coincide with similar dependences for healthy people and about earlier investigated pathologies of other genesis were observed. The received data are interpreted for the benefit of adaptive, protective character of seasonal changes dynamic homeostasis.
Monitoring micronutrients in cigarette smokers.	Smoking is associated with oxidative stress and increased risks of many chronic diseases that both shorten life and impair its quality. Low concentrations of several micronutrients, especially the antioxidants vitamin C and beta-carotene, are also associated with smoking, and there has been much interest in determining whether deficiencies in micronutrients are involved etiologically in smoking-related diseases. The objective of this review was to bring together reports on dietary intakes, biochemical indicators of micronutrient status, and results of some intervention studies on micronutrients where authors had compared outcomes in smokers and non-smokers. The micronutrients discussed are vitamins A, E, and C; the carotenoids; some of the B-vitamin group; and the minerals selenium, zinc, copper, and iron. The data were then examined to determine whether effects on the biochemical markers of micronutrient status were due to differences in dietary intakes between smokers and non-smokers or to the consequences of inflammatory changes caused by the oxidative stress of smoking. It was concluded that although smoking is associated with reduced dietary intake of vitamin C and carotenoid-containing foods, inflammatory changes increase turnover of these micronutrients so that blood concentrations are still lower in smokers than non-smokers even when there is control for dietary differences. In the case of vitamin E, there is some evidence for increased turnover of this nutrient in smokers, but this has little to no influence on blood concentrations, and there are no differences in dietary intake of vitamin E between smokers and non-smokers. Serum concentrations of vitamin A, folate, and vitamin B12 and B6 markers do not appear to be influenced by smoking, although there is some influence of dietary intake on concentrations of these nutrients in the body. In the case of the minerals examined, the main effects on biochemical markers of mineral status were attributed to inflammation and were therefore greater in heavy or long-term smokers. Serum concentrations of selenium and erythrocyte GPx activity were lower in smokers. Erythrocyte CuZn-SOD activity and serum ceruloplasmin concentrations were elevated, while serum zinc concentrations were depressed only in heavy smokers. Lastly, smoking appears to affect iron homeostasis mainly by changing hemoglobin concentrations, which were in general increased. Serum iron, TfR, and ferritin were mostly unaffected by smoking, except in pregnancy where there is evidence of increased erythropoiesis causing lower saturation of plasma transferrin and some evidence of lowering of iron stores.
Chromium picolinate supplementation in women: effects on body weight, composition, and iron status.	This study tested the hypothesis that supplementation of chromium picolinate (CrPic), 200 microg Cr/d, compared with an equivalent amount of picolinic acid (1720 microg) in CrPic and placebo, decreases body weight, alters body composition, and reduces iron status of women fed diets of constant energy and nutrients.
Oxidase activity of ceruloplasmin and some acute phase reactant and trace element concentrations in serum of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	In the present study, we aimed to investigate the parameters in serum of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and correlate with the cancer stage. The serum concentrations of ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, albuminumin, transferrin, copper, zinc, manganese, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were measured, and compared with those from a healthy control group. The serum from 34 patients with CLL were extracted before chemotherapy. Serum transferrin, albuminumin and Zinc concentrations were lower in patients with CLL while serum a-1-acid glycoprotein, ceruloplasmin, copper concentrations, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were higher in CLL patients when compared with the control group. Although serum manganese concentration was lower in CLL groups than in the control group, the difference was not statistically significant. Serum transferrin concentration was lower in the early stage group compared with the advanced stage. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients from the early stage group. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients with advanced stage. In conclusion, increased serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity, ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, copper levels and decreased transferrin and albuminumin, unchanged manganese levels are associated with CLL and appear to be a consequence of the disease itself.
Selenium, vitamin E and vitamin A status in dairy sheep reared under different feeding systems in Greece.	The main purpose of the study was to investigate whether the feeding system applied has any effect on the status of blood selenium (Se) and vitamins A and E in dairy sheep. In total 200 dairy sheep from 10 flocks were used in the study (20 animals per flock). Group A consisted of 100 sheep (five flocks) reared under the intensive feeding system and group B of 100 sheep (five flocks) reared under the semi-intensive feeding system. The 100 sheep of each group consisted of 25 lambs aged 3-6 months, 25 ewes 1-3 years, 25 ewes more than 3 years and 25 non-lactating ewes in late gestation. Another purpose was to evaluate the potential effect of the age and the reproductive stage of the animals on these parameters. To determine the effect of age, 150 of these animals were divided into three subgroups: 50 lambs, 50 non-pregnant lactating ewes aged 1-3 years and 50 non-pregnant lactating ewes aged more than 3 years. For the evaluation of the effect of the reproductive stage the 50 non-lactating ewes in late gestation and the 100 non-pregnant lactating ewes were used. Blood samplings were performed once, between December and January for non-lactating ewes in late gestation and March to May for lambs and lactating ewes. Whole blood Se and vitamin E and A serum concentrations were determined. The main conclusion is that the feeding system significantly affects Se and serum vitamin A concentration, as they were higher in the intensive one. It was secondly concluded that age affects the serum concentrations of vitamin A.
Morphological characteristics and intracellular electrolytic composition of blood cells at surgeries on lower extremities arteries]	Morphological characteristics and trace and macroelement composition of blood cells flowing out of ischemic lower limb before, during and after reconstructive surgeries under different type of anesthesia. A total of 102 male patients aged 45 to 60 years with atherosclerotic occlusions of the arteries of the femoral-popliteal zone were included into the study. According to anesthesia type all the patients were divided into 3 groups: group 1 consisted of 34 patients operated under spinal anesthesia, 37 patients of group 2 underwent surgery under combined anesthesia (spinal anesthesia with intravenous sedation), 31 patients of group 3 - under total intravenous anesthesia with myoplegia and artificial pulmonary ventilation. All the blood examinations were carried out with scanning electron microscope XL-30 ("Philips") and X-ray spectrum microanalyzer Edax ( "Edax International", USA). It is demonstrated that in spinal and combined anesthesia morphological characteristics of blood cells normalized due to optimization of intraerythrocytic and intrathrombocytic electrolytic homeostasis unlike total intravenous anesthesia, when intracellular imbalance of trace and macroelements progresses and ultrastructural cellular alterations persist.
Effect of micronutrient supplementation on mood in nursing home residents.	One third of older people in nursing and/or residential homes have significant symptoms of depression. In younger people, deficiencies in selenium, vitamin C and folate are associated with depression. This study examines the association between micronutrient status and mood before and after supplementation. The objective was to determine whether the administration of selenium, vitamin C and folate improved mood in frail elderly nursing home residents. Mood was assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression rating scale (HAD), and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Micronutrient supplementation was provided for 8 weeks in a double-blinded randomised controlled trial. Significant symptoms of depression (29%) and anxiety (24%) were found at baseline. 67% of patients had low serum concentrations of vitamin C, but no-one was below the reference range for selenium. Depression was significantly associated with selenium levels, but not with folate or vitamin C levels. No individual with a HAD depression score of >or=8, had selenium levels >1.2 microM. In those patients with higher HAD depression scores, there was a significant reduction in the score and a significant increase in serum selenium levels after 8 weeks of micronutrient supplementation. Placebo group scores were unchanged. This small study concluded that depression was associated with low levels of selenium in frail older individuals. Following 8 weeks of micronutrient supplementation, there was a significant increase in selenium levels and improved symptoms of depression occurred in a subgroup.
Indicators of cardiorespiratory physical activity in physical medicine and rehabilitation]	Indications in cardiovascular and respiratory procedures, osteoporosis, Diabetes Mellitus and obesity and their specified actions with cardiorespiratory physical activity require parameters which are based on consumption of energy, on effort applied in the biomechanical kinetic activity and kinematics. Using three models of physical activity: 1. Aerobic resistance exercise; 2. Strength-Resistance; 3. Chronic overexertion. The results of neutrophils, proteinuria, LDH, CPK, GOT, GPT and blood iron levels correlate statistically with the results of trace minerals: Zinc and Copper.
Changes in the concentration of microelements in different body media during general anesthesia and surgery in patients with cancer of the stomach and esophagus]	Trace element (TE) content (zinc, copper, selenium, chromium) in different body media during surgery and anesthesia has been studied in 56 patients with esophageal and gastric cancer. It has been established that the components of modern analgesia have different effects on intra- and extracellular zinc, copper, selenium and chromium migration. Hexenal decreases TE blood plasma level and simultaneously increases their erythrocyte concentration. The administration of the first doses of depolarizing myorelaxants causes an increase in blood plasma and a decrease in erythrocyte zinc, copper, selenium and chromium content. Subsequent doses of depolarizing myorelaxants have no such effect. The most traumatic moment of the operation is accompanied by an increase in blood plasma and a decrease in erythrocyte TE content. Upon the operation and anesthesia the TE levels under study reach baseline values. In the first 24 hours after surgical intervention there is a decrease in TE erythrocyte concentration and an increase in their blood plasma and daily urine content.
Treatment of deficiency of spleen energy with zhenqi fuzheng chongji and its effect on Zn, Cu and Mg in serum]	This article reports that there is a good response, with an effective rate of 96.2% in the treatment of the deficiency of Spleen energy (DSE) with Zhenqi Fuzheng Chongji (ZQFZCJ). The serous level of ZQFZCJ and the serum concentrations of Zn, Cu and Mg in 53 patients with DSE and in 83 normal subjects were measured with atomic absorption spectrometric analysis. In contrast to the normal subjects, the concentrations of Zn and Mg were decreased and that of Cu and the ratio of Cu/Zn increased in the patients before treatment (P greater than 0.01-0.05). After treatment, however, the concentrations of Zn and Mg became increased (P less than 0.001, P less than 0.05), and the ratio of Cu/Zn decreased (P less than 0.001). The authors conclude that there is some relationship between these three elements and DSE, and the mechanism for the treatment of DSE with ZQFZCJ. ZQFZCJ, rich in trace elements, may provide trace elements for the body, improve the metabolism, transportation and utilization of the trace elements in the body, and activate various enzymes, thus regulating and maintaining the homeostasis, i.e. "supporting in deficient patients".
The effect of increased levels of chronic UVB-radiation on the functional state of the body in sheep]	The effect of increased doses of UV-B-radiation produced by LER-40 lamps (with an intensity of 5.5 W/m2 at a daily dose of 20 kJ/m2 and a total dose for 15 days of 300 kJ/m2) on the cardiovascular function, biochemical, biophysical and structural parameters of blood plasma and cells of sheep was investigated. It was found that increased UV-B-radiation produced functional changes in different physiological systems of animals: arrhythmias, diastole shortening, increase of the systole-diastole index; decrease of platelet count, shortening of blood coagulation time; increase of calcium, iron and copper and decrease of zinc in plasma; conformational changes in cytoplasmic membranes of platelets and lymphocytes. The changes that occurred in the sheep at an early stage of exposure can be viewed as adaptive. However, functional changes that were seen at remote stages suggested that the sensitivity of various systems of the body to UV-B-radiation was different.
Trace element deficiency in healthy subjects based on multi-element analysis of serum and plasma]	Among other elements (manganese, molybdenum, cadmium, mercury, lead, nickel), the levels of selenium in healthy human sera (n = 56) and plasma (n = 15) were measured by ICP spectrometry. It was ascertained by the multielement analysis that of 40 nineteen year-old males (from 28 different villages in one county 15 showed lower than detectable levels of selenium in their sera (n = 25) and plasma (n = 15) samples. For this reason, the selenium contents of the sera of 31 blood donors were determined by the ICP spectrometry, with hybrid generation. By this same technique the selenium in sera of 16 men aged between 24-60 years (mean = 43.3 years) was measured as 24.06 micrograms/l (13-42 micrograms/l), while in 15 women between the ages of 19-64 years (mean 39.3 years) it amounted to 20.86 micrograms/l (11-31 micrograms/l). In 28 cases from 40 samples (25 sera and 15 plasma) the concentration of molybdenum was smaller than the detectable limit (less than 0.0011 mg/l). Firstly, these results prove that amongst healthy individuals, in Hungary, molybdenum and selenium deficiency states exist. The authors conclude that there is a relationship between these deficiency states, as risk factors, and the frequently occurring diseases (malignant tumours, cardiovascular diseases, etc.) in Hungary.
The monitoring of trace elements in blood samples from patients with inborn errors of metabolism.	Patients having inborn errors of intermediary metabolism (IEMs) may have element deficiencies related to dietary treatment. Our objective was to study several elements [cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), selenium (Se), manganese (Mn), molybdenum (Mo) and magnesium (Mg)] in patients with IEMs with and without dietary treatment and to compare these results with those established in a healthy paediatric population. We studied 72 patients with IEMs (age range 2 months-44 years; median 10.5 years), with and without protein-restricted dietary treatment. Control values were established in 92 subjects (age range 1 day-42 years; median 6.5 years). Dietary treatment consisted of a natural protein-restricted diet supplemented with a special formula, depending on the specific metabolic defect. Samples were analysed with an Agilent 7500ce-ICP mass spectrometer. Significant differences were observed when we compared patients under dietary treatment and control values for Se and Co (P < 0.0001). No differences were observed for the other elements when the different groups were compared, except for Co (IEM patients without dietary treatment vs control group; P = 0.003). For Se and cobalamin, the daily intake of our patients (Se 48 ± 16 µg/day; cobalamin 3.5 µg/day) was slightly higher than the recommended daily averages (RDAs) (40 µg/day and 1.8 µg/day, respectively). We concluded that IEM patients under dietary treatment showed significantly lower selenium values in spite of correct supplementation, reinforcing the idea that these patients should be regularly monitored, at least for this element. Further investigations seem advisable about Se and Co availability in special diets.
Investigation of trace metals in the blood plasma and scalp hair of gastrointestinal cancer patients in comparison with controls.	Gastrointestinal cancer is one of the most common types of cancer which is predominantly associated with the environmental factors. The carcinogenic processes are linked with the imbalances of trace metals in body fluid and tissues.
Blood-collection device for trace and ultra-trace metal specimens evaluated.	We evaluated the evacuated phlebotomy tube designed specifically for trace metal analysis by Sherwood Medical Co. Pools of human serum containing known concentrations of aluminum, arsenic, calcium, cadmium, copper, chromium, iron, lead, magnesium, manganese, mercury, selenium, and zinc were exposed to the tube and rubber stopper for defined periods ranging from 5 min to 24 h. Analysis for each element was performed in a randomized fashion under rigidly controlled conditions by use of standard electrothermal atomization atomic absorption spectroscopy, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy, and cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry. In addition, for comparative purposes, we collected blood samples from normal volunteers by use of ultra-clean polystyrene phlebotomy syringes as well as standard evacuated phlebotomy tubes. We conclude that, except for lead, there was no significant contribution of any trace element studied from the evaluated tube and stopper to the serum. Because whole blood is the usual specimen for lead testing, the observation of a trace amount of lead in this tube designed for serum collection is trivial.
Essential metal and immunoglobulin levels in women and neonates with PROM.	The aim of the study was to evaluate the essential metals' levels in the blood of both mothers and neonates with premature rupture of the fetal membranes and to examine the changes produced by PROM in immunoglobulins' concentrations. Metals' levels in blood samples were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry, while the quantitative estimation of the immune proteins in both maternal and umbilical blood sera was performed by a single radial immunodiffusion. Zinc level in blood samples of mothers from the examined group was significant lower than this one evaluated in controls while the other concentrations of metals did not differ significant. We found the significant higher level of cord blood IgA in neonates from PROM+ group comparing with the PROM- group. Low zinc level in maternal blood which was found in examined PROM+ group might suggest that it constitutes one of the causes leading premature rupture of the fetal membranes. The response of the humoral immune system in PROM+ neonates seems to be stimulated by the premature rupture of the fetal membranes.
Trace elements and lipid peroxidation abnormalities in patients with chronic renal failure.	Plasma selenium (Se), zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu) levels and antioxidant metalloenzymes, glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and superoxide dismutase (SOD), were studied in 17 patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) (group I), 14 uremic patients (group II) and 14 healthy subjects (group III). Plasma Se levels and erythrocyte GPX were significantly lower in the HD group (for Se: 0.69 +/- 0.12 vs. 1.05 +/- 0.13 mumol/l in controls; for erythrocyte GPX: 34.4 +/- 6.4 vs. 49.2 +/- 9 IU/g hemoglobin in controls) and a significant correlation was found between the two parameters (r = 0.66, p less than 0.005). There was also a correlation between decreased plasma Zn and erythrocyte SOD activity (r = 0.58, p less than 0.02) and between decreased plasma Cu and erythrocyte SOD (r = 0.60, p less than 0.02). Plasma malondialdehyde levels were augmented in HD patients (5.08 +/- 0.26 vs. 2.55 +/- 0.15 mumol/l in controls and 2.79 +/- 0.40 mumol/l in the uremic group). The catalase activity was increased in HD patients (202 +/- 24 vs. 140 +/- 40 IU/mg hemoglobin in group III). A defective antioxidant activity may thus contribute to increased peroxidative damage to cells in the course of dialysis.
Content of trace elements in the lymph and blood during pyrogenal-induced fever and complete freund's adjuvant-induced low-grade fever.	Experiments on rats showed that complete Freund's adjuvant-induced low-grade fever and pyrogenal-induced fever are accompanied by an increase in the content of Mn, Cu, Zn, and Se in the thoracic duct lymph. Our results indicate that the lymphatic system supplies trace elements to the circulation, which compensates for a deficiency in trace elements and maintains their systemic circulation. The decrease in the content of some trace elements in the blood during fever is probably associated with their excessive consumption (e.g., to maintain the antioxidant defense system). During experimental low-grade fever and pyrogenal-induced fever, the lymphatic system serves as the reservoir for trace elements and plays a role in the regulation of trace element balance in biological fluids.
Dry cereals fortified with electrolytic iron or ferrous fumarate are equally effective in breast-fed infants.	Precooked, instant (dry) infant cereals in the US are fortified with electrolytic iron, a source of low reactivity and suspected low bioavailability. Iron from ferrous fumarate is presumed to be more available. In this study, we compared a dry infant rice cereal (Cereal L) fortified with electrolytic iron (54.5 mg iron/100 g cereal) to a similar cereal (Cereal M) fortified with ferrous fumarate (52.2 mg Fe/100 g) for efficacy in maintaining iron status and preventing iron deficiency (ID) in breast-fed infants. Ascorbic acid was included in both cereals. In this prospective, randomized double-blind trial, exclusively breast-fed infants were enrolled at 1 mo and iron status was determined periodically. At 4 mo, 3 infants had ID anemia and were excluded. Ninety-five infants were randomized at 4 mo, and 69 (36 Cereal L, 33 Cereal M) completed the intervention at 9 mo. From 4 to 9 mo, they consumed daily one of the study cereals. With each cereal, 2 infants had mild ID, a prevalence of 4.2%, but no infant developed ID anemia. There were no differences in iron status between study groups. Iron intake from the study cereals was (mean ± SD) 1.21 ± 0.31 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅d(-1) from Cereal L and 1.07 ± 0.40 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅d(-1) from Cereal M. Eleven infants had low birth iron endowment (plasma ferritin < 55 μg/L at 2 mo) and 54% of these infants had ID with or without anemia by 4 mo. We conclude that electrolytic iron and ferrous fumarate were equally efficacious as fortificants of this infant cereal.
Maternal zinc supplementation during pregnancy affects autonomic function of Peruvian children assessed at 54 months of age.	Maternal prenatal zinc supplementation improved fetal autonomic regulation in a nutrient-deficient population in Peru. To evaluate whether differences in autonomic regulation existed in early childhood, we studied 165 children from a zinc supplementation trial (80% of original sample) as part of a comprehensive evaluation at age 54 mo. Electrocardiogram (ECG) data were collected from the children at rest and while they underwent a cognitive testing battery following a standardized protocol. Of these, 79 were born to mothers receiving 25 mg/d zinc in addition to 60 mg/d iron and 250 μg/d folic acid during pregnancy, and 86 were born to mothers receiving iron and folic acid only. Derived cardiac measures included heart period (HP), range, HP variability (HPV), mean square of successive differences (MSSD), and a measure of vagal tone (V). Children in the zinc supplementation group had greater HP (i.e. slower heart rate), greater range, higher time-independent (HPV) and time-dependent (MSSD) variability in HP, and higher V (P < 0.05) during baseline. Analyses conducted across the cognitive testing period revealed similar effects of prenatal zinc supplementation on cardiac patterns. Concurrent child zinc plasma concentration was also associated with longer HP, greater variability, and marginally higher range and V (P < 0.10). Differences in cardiac patterns due to prenatal zinc supplementation were detectable in children at 54 mo of age during conditions of both rest and challenge, indicating that supplementing zinc-deficient pregnant women has beneficial long-term consequences for neural development associated with autonomic regulation.
A micronutrient powder with low doses of highly absorbable iron and zinc reduces iron and zinc deficiency and improves weight-for-age Z-scores in South African children.	Micronutrient powders (MNP) are often added to complementary foods high in inhibitors of iron and zinc absorption. Most MNP therefore include high amounts of iron and zinc, but it is no longer recommended in malarial areas to use untargeted MNP that contain the Reference Nutrient Intake for iron in a single serving. The aim was to test the efficacy of a low-iron and -zinc (each 2.5 mg) MNP containing iron as NaFeEDTA, ascorbic acid (AA), and an exogenous phytase active at gut pH. In a double-blind controlled trial, South African school children with low iron status (n = 200) were randomized to receive either the MNP or the unfortified carrier added just before consumption to a high-phytate maize porridge 5 d/wk for 23 wk; primary outcomes were iron and zinc status and a secondary outcome was somatic growth. Compared with the control, the MNP increased serum ferritin (P < 0.05), body iron stores (P < 0.01) and weight-for-age Z-scores (P < 0.05) and decreased transferrin receptor (P < 0.05). The prevalence of iron deficiency fell by 30.6% (P < 0.01) and the prevalence of zinc deficiency decreased by 11.8% (P < 0.05). Absorption of iron from the MNP was estimated to be 7-8%. Inclusion of an exogenous phytase combined with NaFeEDTA and AA may allow a substantial reduction in the iron dose from existing MNP while still delivering adequate iron and zinc. In addition, the MNP is likely to enhance absorption of the high native iron content of complementary foods based on cereals and/or legumes.
Serum heavy metal and antioxidant element levels of children with recurrent wheezing.	The aim of the study is to investigate the levels of toxic heavy metals related with environmental pollution and trace elements involved in antioxidant system in children suffering from recurrent wheezing.
Evaluation of erythrocyte antioxidant mechanisms: antioxidant enzymes, lipid peroxidation, and serum trace elements associated with progressive anemia in ovine malignant theileriosis.	Ovine malignant theileriosis is a fatal disease that is characterized by severe progressive anemia. In order to elucidate the underlying mechanisms involved in anemia, this study was designed to assess the antioxidant status and erythrocyte oxidative injuries in Iranian fat-tailed sheep that suffered from malignant theileriosis. The infected animals (infected group), composed of 50 Iranian sheep about 1-2 years old, naturally infected with Theileria sp., were divided into three subgroups according to parasitemia rates (<1%, 1-3%, 3-5%), and ten non-infected animals were also selected as the control group. Blood samples were taken and hematological parameters, the activities of antioxidant enzymes including superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and catalase, erythrocyte osmotic fragility, and serum concentrations of some trace elements (copper, iron, zinc, manganese, and selenium), were measured. As an index of lipid peroxidation, the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) was also determined. According to the results, a significant decrease in red blood cell (RBC) count, packed cell volume, the activities of SOD, GPX, and catalase (P <0.001), and also serum concentrations of Cu, Zn, Mn, and Se (P < 0.05) were evident in the infected sheep. In contrast, significantly increased levels of MDA and erythrocyte osmotic fragility (P < 0.001) as well as serum concentration of iron (P < 0.05) were recorded in the infected animals. The significant decrease in antioxidant enzyme activities and substantial elevated levels of lipid peroxidation and erythrocyte osmotic fragility associated with the increase in parasitemia indicate increased exposure of RBCs to oxidative damage. Also, it appears that disturbed antioxidant defense mechanisms can promote the development of anemia in ovine theileriosis.
Dietary intake, zincemia and cupremia of Cameroonian schoolchildren of Ngali II.	The present study is aimed at investigating the dietary intake, zincemia and cupremia of Cameroonian schoolchildren of Ngali II. A total of 211 and 200 schoolchildren aged between 7 and 18 years were recruited during the rainy season and dry season, respectively. Information on dietary intake was collected using 7-day measured food diaries. The zincemia and cupremia of the subjects were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The energy, nutrient intakes, zincemia and cupremia obtained were compared with reference values. The energy and most nutrient intakes of these schoolchildren were higher in the rainy season than in the dry season. Energy and nutrient intakes were generally insufficient, when compared with reference values in children except zinc, iron, magnesium and vitamin E intakes and in adolescents (except magnesium and vitamin E intakes). The zincemia and cupremia of the subjects were low when compared with standard values.
Oxidative stress status and plasma trace elements in patients with asthma or allergic rhinitis.	This study was conducted to evaluate the oxidant/antioxidant balance (oxidative stress status) and plasma essential trace element levels in patients with bronchial asthma or allergic rhinitis.
Severe pre-eclampsia is associated with abnormal trace elements concentrations in maternal and fetal blood.	The study was aimed to compare trace elements concentrations in women with and without severe pre-eclampsia (PE).
Serum trace elements and heavy metals in polycystic ovary syndrome.	We aimed to investigate the serum levels of essential trace elements copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), manganese (Mn), magnesium (Mg) and heavy metals cadmium (Cd), cobalt (Co) and lead (Pb) in the patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
Prediction of type-2 diabetes based on several element levels in blood and chemometrics.	The present study was designed to evaluate the levels of eight elements including lithium, zinc, chromium, copper, iron, manganese, nickel and vanadium in whole blood of type-2 diabetes patients, to compare them with age-matched healthy controls and to investigate the feasibility of combining them with an ensemble model for diagnosing purpose. A dataset involving 158 samples, among which 105 were taken from healthy adults and the remaining 53 from patients with type-2 diabetes, was collected. All samples were split into the training set and the test set with the equal size. Based on a simple variable selection, two elements, i.e., chromium and iron, are also picked out as the most important elements. Three kinds of algorithms, i.e., fisher linear discriminate analysis (FLDA), support vector machine (SVM) and decision tree (DT), were used for constructing member models. The best ensemble classifiers constructed on the training set were validated on the independent test set, and the prediction results were compared with those from clinical diagnostics on the same subjects. The results reveal that almost all ensemble classifiers exhibit similar performance, implying that these elements coupled with an appropriate ensemble classifier can serve as a valuable tool of diagnosing diabetes type-2.
Cord blood levels of toxic and essential trace elements and their determinants in the Terai region of Nepal: a birth cohort study.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the cord blood level of toxic and trace elements and to identify their determinants in Terai, Nepal. One hundred pregnant women were recruited from one hospital in Chitwan, Nepal in 2008. The cord blood levels of toxic [lead (Pb), arsenic (As), and cadmium (Cd)], essential trace elements [zinc (Zn), selenium (Se), and copper (Cu)], demographic, socioeconomic, and behavioral variables were measured. The mean values of Pb, As, Cd, Zn, Se, and Cu in cord blood level were found as 31.7, 1.46, 0.39, 2,286, 175, and 667 μg/L, respectively. In the multivariate regression model, cord blood As levels from less educated mothers were higher than those from educated mothers (coefficient = -0.01, 95% confidence interval [CI] = -0.02-0.00). The maternal age was positively associated with the cord blood Cd level (coefficient = 0.02, 95% CI = 0.01-0.03), while it was negatively associated with the cord blood As level (coefficient = -0.01, 95% CI = -0.03--0.01). Cord blood levels of Pb, Zn, Se, and Cu were not associated with maternal age, socioeconomic status, living environment, and smoking status. As and Cd levels were relatively lower than those reported in previous studies in Asia, while the levels of Pb and the trace elements were similar. Less educated mothers are more likely to become a higher in utero As source to their fetus, and fetuses of older mothers were more likely to have higher in utero Cd exposure in Terai, Nepal.
An ORS-ICP-MS method for monitoring trace levels of cobalt and chromium in whole blood samples from hip arthroplasty patients with metal-on-metal prostheses.	To develop a rapid and reliable method, using an octopole reaction system (ORS) ICP-MS, capable of monitoring trace levels of Co and Cr in whole blood samples from hip arthroplasty patients with metal-on-metal prostheses.
Trace elements and antioxidant enzymes associated with oxidative stress in the pre-eclamptic/eclamptic mothers during fetal circulation.	Pre-eclampsia is associated with oxidative stress in the maternal circulation. The aim of the study was to access the oxidative stress status by quantification of byproducts generated during lipid peroxidation; deficient antioxidant activity and inadequate trace elements during oxidative damage in the umbilical cord blood of pre-eclamptic/eclamptic mothers and its effect on the fetal outcome.
Antioxidant trace elements in serum of draft horses with acute and chronic lower airway disease.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the oxidative stress level and antioxidant trace elements status associated with lower airway disease in draft horses. For this purpose, venous blood samples were obtained from draft horses exhibiting signs of lower respiratory tract disorders (n = 83) and from control group (n = 20). Serum trace elements including selenium (Se), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), manganese (Mn), and iron (Fe) were assayed. Serum malondialdehyde (MDA) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels as well as plasma hydrogen peroxides (H₂O₂) concentration and activity of plasma glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and catalase (CAT) were measured. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease of Se, Cu, Zn, and Fe in diseased horses compared with healthy ones, but the Cu/Zn ratio and Mn were increased (p < 0.05). Se was significantly (p < 0.05) decreased in chronically affected horses compared with acute cases, but Mn was increased (p < 0.05). There was an increase of MDA, LDL, and H₂O₂ levels and GR activity in diseased cases compared with healthy horses. However, there was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease of GST and CAT activity. MDA and LDL levels were increased (p < 0.05) in horses with chronic respiratory disease compared to acute cases, but CAT activity was decreased (p < 0.05). In horses with acute lower airway disease, there was a negative correlation between GR and H₂O₂ (r = -0.458), and LDL and CAT (r = -0.816). However, in chronic disease, a negative correlation was recorded between Se and MDA (r = -0.590). The results of the present study indicate that oxidative stress, with alteration of antioxidant trace element levels, is a feature of respiratory disease in draft horses.
Are additional trace elements necessary in total parenteral nutrition for patients with esophageal cancer receiving cisplatin-based chemotherapy?	It is known that cisplatin induces the excretion of zinc from the urine and thereby reduces its serum concentration. However, the fluctuation of these trace elements during or after cisplatin-based chemotherapy has not been evaluated. To answer this question, we performed a clinical study in esophageal cancer patients undergoing cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Eighteen patients with esophageal cancer who were not able to swallow food or water orally due to complete stenosis of the esophagus were evaluated. The patients were divided into a control group [total parenteral nutrition (TPN) alone for 28 days, ten cases] and an intervention group (TPN with additional trace elements for 28 days, eight cases). The serum concentrations of zinc, iron, copper, manganese, triiodothyronin (T3), and thyroxin (T4), as alternative indicators of iodine, were measured on days 0, 14, and 28 of treatment, and statistically analyzed on day 28. In the control group, the serum concentration of copper was significantly decreased from 135.4 (day 0) to 122.1 μg/ml (day 14), and finally to 110.6 μg/ml (day 28, p = 0.015). The concentration of manganese was also significantly decreased from 1.34 (day 0) to 1.17 μg/ml (day 14) and finally to 1.20 (day 28, p = 0.049). The levels of zinc, iron, T3, and T4 were not significantly changed. In the intervention group, the supplementation with trace elements successfully prevented these decreases in their concentrations. TPN with supplementary trace elements is preferable and recommended for patients who are undergoing chemotherapy in order to maintain the patients' nutrient homeostasis.
Limbic system pathologies associated with deficiencies and excesses of the trace elements iron, zinc, copper, and selenium.	Deficiencies of nutrients such as amino acids, vitamins, lipids, and trace elements during gestation and early infanthood have strong deleterious effects on the development of the limbic system; these effects may be irreversible, even when adequate supplementation is provided at later developmental stages. Recent advances in the neurochemistry of biometals are increasingly establishing the roles of the trace elements iron, copper, zinc, and selenium in a variety of cell functions and are providing insight into the repercussions of deficiencies and excesses of these elements on the development of the central nervous system, especially the limbic system. The limbic system comprises diverse areas with high metabolic demands and differential storage of iron, copper, zinc, and selenium. This review summarizes available evidence suggesting the involvement of these trace elements in pathological disorders of the limbic system.
Preliminary evaluation of the antioxidant trace elements in an Algerian patient with type 2 diabetes: special role of manganese and chromium]	In type 2 diabetes, the relationship between antioxidants and insuline-like trace elements is very complex during oxidative stress, being mediated by hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia and inflammation. We investigated the antioxidant status, particularly Mn and Cr on the diabetes metabolic control, and their interaction with the metabolic syndrome (MS) parameters. The study was undertaken on 278 Algerian diabetic subjects who were divided in 2 groups according to glycated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) <7% or >7% value, attesting for a good or poor metabolic control of diabetes, respectively. The MS was defined according to NCEP-ATPIII. Insulin resistance was evaluated by HOMA-IR model. The plasma manganese concentrations was significantly increased in both diabetics groups, independently of metabolic control. However, chromium (Cr) seems to play a determinant action in metabolic control, as shown by better values of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and HbA(1c). The selenium status was positively correlated with glutathion peroxidase activity. Copper and zinc plasma levels in the diabetic patients were similar to those of control subjects. In conclusion, our results suggest that Mn play a crucial role in antioxidant capacity and we hypothesize that antioxidant defense is preserved in the cytosol (superoxide dismutase Cu/Zn -SOD), whereas it is impaired in mitochondria (Mn-SOD), which makes this cell organelle a true therapeutic target in diabetes.
A study on the effects of pica and iron-deficiency anemia on oxidative stress, antioxidant capacity and trace elements.	Pica is defined as developmentally inappropriate consumption of nonnutritive substances for at least 1 month. There are a few studies on serum trace element levels of patients with pica. The literature contains contracting data on the levels of oxidative stress and antioxidant levels in patients with iron-deficiency anemia (IDA). The effect of pica on oxidative stress and antioxidant capacity has not been investigated yet. The present study evaluated the effects of pica and IDA on oxidative stress and antioxidant capacity as well as on the levels of trace elements including serum zinc and selenium in 47 children with IDA plus pica, 22 children with IDA only and 21 nonanemic children as controls. The results demonstrated significantly lower levels of serum selenium and zinc in pica and IDA groups compared to the control group. Total oxidant levels were highest in the pica group and consistently, the lowest total antioxidant capacity was observed again in the pica group. Comparison of pica and IDA groups yielded significantly lower levels of total antioxidant levels and significantly higher oxidative stress index in the pica group. Consequently, it is thought that the detrimental effects of pica within the organism were mediated by adverse impacts on antioxidant capacity and oxidative stress. These effects should be kept in mind while managing patients with pica. 
Whole blood and serum concentrations of metals in a Swedish population-based sample.	While the potential toxicity of metals in humans is a well-established field of research, there are few studies that examine circulating concentrations of metals in large population-based samples. The aim of this study was to analyze levels of heavy metals and trace elements in both whole blood and serum in an elderly population, and to examine if gender, kidney function, haemoglobin or serum albumin could impact the distribution of metals between whole blood and serum.
Effects of electromagnetic pulse on serum element levels in rat.	Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) was a potentially harmful factor to the human body, and a biological dosimetry to evaluate effects of EMP is necessary. Little is known about effects of EMP on concentration of macro and trace elements in serum so far. In this study, Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 50-kV/m EMP-exposed group (n = 10), 100-kV/m EMP-exposed group (n = 10), 200-kV/m EMP-exposed group (n = 40), and the sham-exposed group (n = 20). The macro and trace element concentrations in serum were examined at 6, 12, 24, and 48 h after EMP exposure at different electric field intensities. Compared with the sham-exposed groups, the concentration of sodium (Na), potassium (K), magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), selenium (Se), and manganese (Mn) in rat serum was not changed significantly within 48 h after 200 pulses of EMP exposure at electric field intensity of 50, 100, and 200 kV/m although the K level was decreased and the Ca level was increased with the electric field intensity of EMP increasing. In addition, there was a tendency that the Zn level was decreased with the time going on within 48 h after EMP exposure. Under our experimental conditions, EMP exposure cannot affect the concentration of macro and trace elements in rat serum. There was no time-effect or dose-effect relationship between EMP exposure and serum element levels. The macro and trace elements in serum are not suitable endpoints of biological dosimetry of EMP.
Influence of training frequency on serum concentrations of some essential trace elements and electrolytes in male swimmers.	Elemental fluctuations during physical performances have been a point of interest. This study was designed to investigate the effect of swimming frequency on serum concentrations of some trace elements (chromium, iron, copper, zinc, selenium) and electrolytes (sodium, magnesium, potassium, calcium). Three groups of different-level male swimmers were included in the study, as elite swimmers (n = 14), amateur swimmers (n = 11), and sedentary individuals (n = 10). Elite and amateur swimmer groups followed a 3-week training program. At the end of the period, all volunteers were subjected to a controlled swimming test, and blood samples were collected at the beginning of (pre-test), immediately after (post-test), and 1 h after this activity. Element concentrations were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry using a dilute and shoot procedure. Apart from the swimming test applied, pre-test calcium and potassium levels were higher in elite swimmers compared to amateurs and controls. The difference in pre-test levels of these elements can be associated with adaptive mechanisms emerged by the frequent training. Regarding the test applied, changes in magnesium, calcium, copper, zinc, and selenium levels exhibited a common pattern in all study groups, with higher post-test serum concentrations. Another point of note was a drop of copper, zinc, and selenium levels at 1 h after the test in elite swimmers. The decrease in serum zinc was also observed in the other groups. Results highlight the value of regular control of elemental status to provide insight into transient effects and deficiencies.
Severe nutritional deficiencies in young infants with inappropriate plant milk consumption]	Over the past few years, we have observed increasing consumption of inappropriate plant milks as an alternative to infant milk formula. Some families believe that foods labeled as natural are the most healthy and an appropriate nutritional choice. However, their composition does not respect European recommendations. They are always hypocaloric and protein, vitamin, and mineral concentrations are inadequate. The aim of this study was to report severe nutritional complications after inappropriate plant milk consumption. Between 2008 and 2011, we studied severe nutritional deficiencies caused by consumption of plant milks bought in health food stores or online shops. Infants were identified in our centers and examined through medical history, physical examination, and laboratory testing. Nine cases of infants aged from 4 to 14 months were observed. In all cases, these milks were used as an alternative to milk formulas for supposed cow's milk allergy. At diagnosis, four patients were aged 6 months or less. They had received plant milk exclusively for 1-3 months. The beverages consumed were rice, soya, almond and sweet chestnut milks. In three cases, infants presented severe protein-calorie malnutrition with substantial hypoalbuminemia (<20 g/L) and diffuse edema. In the other cases, the nutritional disorders were revealed by a refractory status epilepticus related to severe hypocalcemia (one case), growth arrest of both height and weight secondary to insufficient caloric intake (five cases), and severe cutaneous involvement (one case). Five children had severe iron deficiency anemia (<70 g/L), three children had a very low 25-hydroxy vitamin D level (nutritional rickets), and two had severe hyponatremia (<130 mmoL/L). Milk alternative beverages expose infants to severe nutritional deficiencies. Serious complications can occur. Early, exclusive, and extended use is riskier. These diseases are preventable, and parental education should be provided. Statutory measures forbidding their use in young infants should be organized to slow down the progress of this social trend.
Assessment of trace elements in sera of patients undergoing renal dialysis.	To assess the serum levels of copper, zinc, iron, and lead in patients on maintenance dialysis.
Serum levels of trace elements in patients with prostate cancer.	Trace elements are major components of biological structures; however, excessive levels of these elements can be toxic.
Responses of trace elements to aerobic maximal exercise in elite sportsmen.	Trace elements are chemical elements needed in minute quantities for the proper growth, development, and physiology of the organism. In biochemistry, a trace element is also referred to as a micronutrient. Trace elements, such as nickel, cadmium, aluminum, silver, chromium, molybdenum, germanium, tin, titanium, tungsten, scandium, are found naturally in the environment and human exposure derives from a variety of sources, including air, drinking water and food. The Purpose of this study was investigated the effect of aerobic maximal intensity endurance exercise on serum trace elements as well-trained individuals of 28 wrestlers (age (year) 19.64±1.13, weight (Kg) 70.07 ± 15.69, height (cm) 176.97 ± 6.69) during and after a 2000 meter Ergometer test protocol was used to perform aerobic (75 %) maximal endurance exercise. Trace element serum levels were analyzed from blood samples taken before, immediately after and one hour after the exercise. While an increase was detected in Chromium (Cr), Nickel (Ni), Molybdenum (Mo) and Titanium (Ti) serum levels immediately after the exercise, a decrease was detected in Aluminum (Al), Scandium (Sc) and Tungsten (W) serum levels. Except for aluminum, the trace elements we worked on showed statistically meaningful responses (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001). According to the responses of trace elements to the exercise showed us the selection and application of the convenient sport is important not only in terms of sportsman performance but also in terms of future healthy life plans and clinically. 
Thioacetamide- and carbon tetrachloride-induced liver cirrhosis.	Two methods of inducing liver cirrhosis in the rat were studied. Intragastric administration of CCl4 for 16 weeks according to Proctor and Chatamra was compared to the administration of thioacetamide in the drinking water (0.3 g/l) for the same period. CCl4 administration induced micronodular cirrhosis in 6/8 animals with a 27% mortality. Thioacetamide induced cirrhosis in 6/8 animals without mortality. The histologic pictures differed somewhat in that the CCl4 group exhibited more necrosis and cellular swelling while the thioacetamide group had more nuclear atypias and proliferation. Biochemically both groups had elevated plasma levels of aspartate aminotransferase. The lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase (beta-NAG) showed a transient increase in the thioacetamide animals, while beta-glucuronidase decreased. CCl4-induced cirrhosis led to an increase in beta-NAG. Plasma zinc decreased in both groups as well as liver zinc content in the CCl4 group, while there was a continuous elevation of liver zinc in the thioacetamide group. We conclude that oral administration of thioacetamide is a simple and reliable method of inducing experimental liver cirrhosis. The differences in histological appearances and some biochemical parameters may be caused by the different mechanisms of action of thioacetamide and CCl4.
Studies on antepartum prolapse of the vagina in buffalo--plasma trace element concentrations.	Plasma micro-element concentrations of copper, zinc, iron, and manganese were studied in 25 buffaloes at varying stages of gestation, between 7 months to term and with varying degrees of vaginal prolapse. A similar number of animals, normally pregnant at identical stages and with no previous history of antepartum vaginal prolapse, was used for control purposes. Plasma iron and manganese concentrations in affected animals were similar to values in normal pregnant animals at all stages. However, plasma copper levels were slightly but not significantly lower in affected animals at all stages, whereas plasma zinc concentrations were significantly low in affected animals from 9 months to term. Possible interactions are discussed between plasma copper and zinc levels, on the one hand, and hormones, like oestrogens and cortisol, on the other.
Identification of alcohol abuse and alcoholism with biological parameters.	The prevalence and incidence of heavy alcohol consumption are major problems which have been increasing in many countries in recent years. It is crucial for physicians to consistently identify early drinking problems as well as the various end disease states in order to minimize suffering and maximize recovery. This paper reviews the evolutionary development of clinical tools for detection of alcohol abuse. The focus is primarily on clinical/biochemical indicators of alcohol abuse, emphasizing but not limited to changes in hematological characteristics, liver enzyme activity, lipids, immune function factors, hormones, neurological factors, and some physically based tests. Use of test combinations and sophisticated statistical analysis of pattern changes in test batteries evidence increased diagnostic efficiency.
Intrapartum levels of trace metals in maternal blood in relation to umbilical cord blood values: lead, iron, copper, zinc.	The study was designed to measure the gradients of lead, iron, copper and zinc from maternal blood to cord blood in pregnant urban and rural women. The concentrations of iron, copper, zinc and lead were measured by means of atomic absorption spectometry (AAS) in whole blood of 100 normal parturients and 92 of their neonates. Levels of lead in cord blood were not significantly different from those in maternal blood. This ratio was associated with similar iron and zinc ratios. Neonatal birth weight was negatively correlated with maternal copper levels, whereas cord blood zinc values positively correlated with placental weight. Rural women showed higher maternal to cord blood lead ratios than urban women. The implications of these findings are discussed.
Serum trace elements in children receiving long-term parenteral nutrition.	The trace elements iron (Fe), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), selenium (Se), chromium (Cr), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), rubidium (Rb), and bromine (Br) were determined in serum from 18 children, ages 4 to 65 months, who received long-term total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Nine patients (group 1) received TPN as their only source of nutrition; the other nine (group 2) ingested 30% to 70% of their total calorie requirement and received the remainder intravenously. The reference group consisted of 19 healthy children of similar age and sex distribution. Groups 1 and 2 had received parenteral nutrition for 28.4 +/- 13.7 (SD) and 23.1 +/- 17.1 (SD) months, respectively. All patients in group 1 and four in group 2 had short bowel syndrome; four in group 2 had pseudo-obstruction syndrome. Patients in group 1 had normal serum levels of Fe, Cu, and Mn, but increased levels of Zn; they had decreased serum concentrations of Se, Cr, Ni, Rb, and Br. Patients in group 2 had decreased serum levels of Mn, Cr, Ni, Rb, and Br. Those trace elements not supplemented in TPN solutions (Se, Cr, Mn, Ni, Rb, and Br) were lower in the children receiving TPN than in the control children, indicating inadequate intake of these trace elements from food and TPN solutions. However, no obvious clinical signs or symptoms of trace element deficiencies were observed.
Relationship of antioxidant enzymes to trace metals in premature infants.	Serum levels of the trace metals copper, zinc, and selenium were measured in premature infants. White blood cell glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase levels were measured in conjunction with the trace metals. Three groups of infants were evaluated: group I was relatively healthy, group II were infants with stage 2 bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) or less, group III were infants with stage 3 BPD or worse. Zinc and selenium levels declined in all groups during conventional parenteral nutrition (TPN) regimens, while copper remained stable. Copper did decline in groups I and II coincident with an acceleration in growth rate. An expected rise in antioxidant enzyme levels in infants with pulmonary oxygen toxicity was not seen. This study suggests that supplemental selenium as well as an increased zinc intake over current recommendations for premature infants receiving TPN may be indicated.
Serum trace-element levels in piretanide-treated hypertensives: a double-blind trial against hydrochlorothiazide plus amiloride.	A double-blind parallel group study was carried out in patients with mild to moderate hypertension to assess the effects of 6 mg piretanide once or twice daily, in comparison to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide plus 5 mg amiloride once daily, on serum trace-element levels over a period of three months. The results showed that for most of the trace elements investigated (zinc, iron, copper, manganese and cobalt) no relevant changes were seen. Only serum iron values (medians) showed a slight drop (p less than 0.05) with 6 mg piretanide twice daily. The results indicate that a three-months' therapy with piretanide or with a thiazide-potassium sparer diuretic combination is safe without producing any disturbances in the serum levels of trace elements.
Serum and growth factors in cell culture media--an introductory review.	Amongst this bewildering array of growth factors, serum replacements and serum-free media is there a system which works well for most cell types used in biotechnology? If so is there a short-cut for novices in the field to be able quickly to select the right formulation. I hope the following discussion will enable those with experience in this field to share that experience so that we can get an indication of which compound works for which cell under which conditions. Also the cost in both yield and monetary terms needs to be kept in perspective as one option is to produce these very expensive factors from genetically engineered bacteria. Discussion points should include the question of why so many medium formulations still include serum at 0.1 or 0.5% i.e. what does this small quantity of serum provide and does it mean that in fact we cannot have a completely protein-free media to achieve optimal growth? In which case, what is the minimal acceptable level? An adaptation procedure to low-serum media is accepted as essential but in fact the time-scale for this varies enormously from laboratory to laboratory and the question must be asked "is this based on quantitative or empirical investigation"? I hope the following panel discussion will answer these questions as the correct use of growth factors is of vital importance to the future development of cell product technology. It is probably true to say that with the correct blend of these compounds all cell types can be grown in culture as successfully as the ubiquitous fibroblast.
Asbestos fibers and trace metals in the blood of cattle grazing in fields inundated by asbestos-rich sediments.	During a major storm in 1975, a pasture was inundated with serpentinitic sediments which are rich in asbestos fibers and trace metals. Little natural revegetation has occurred at the site and dairy and beef cattle which continue to graze in and around the contaminated site are exposed to asbestos fibers by inhalation and ingestion. The effect of this material on the cattle was investigated in this study by analyzing blood samples from exposed and control animals for asbestos fibers, trace metals, and general blood chemistry. The analysis showed that at the time of exposure Ni and Mn values were significantly higher in the exposed animals than in the controls, and in six out of seven samples asbestos fibers were present as determined by STEM analysis. Once the animals were removed from the site, trace metal levels returned to normal but asbestos fibers were still present in three out of seven animals. Two of the control animals unaffected by the sediments also showed asbestos fibers and there were no relationships between the magnitude of fibers and trace metal content. This suggests that the sediments influence the blood chemistry of animals but the presence and magnitude of asbestos fibers in the blood can be influenced by other factors as well.
Decreased taste and smell acuity in cirrhosis.	The sensory modalities of taste and smell were evaluated in eight patients with cirrhosis that was proved by biopsy specimens and in 13 control subjects. Additionally, the following serum levels were determined in these same subjects: zinc, copper, magnesium, calcium, manganese, and selenium. Fourteen concentrations each of sucrose, sodium chloride, urea, and hydrochloric acid were used to evaluate taste acuity. Smell was evaluated with 11 concentrations each of nitrobenzene, thiophene, and pyridine. These studies show that decreased acuity of taste and smell occurred in conjunction with cirrhosis in the patients who were tested. There were no trace element abnormalities that consistently correlated with decreased acuity in perception of the individual test substances.
Trace metal levels of X-ray technicians' blood and hair.	Medical X-ray technicians are exposed to low-level ionizing radiation in their occupational field. There are very few data on low-dose radiation effects. The present study was designed to estimate few vital trace metals (Zn, Cu, Fe) in indicator tissues (blood and hair) of X-ray technicians and non-X-ray technicians (hospital employees were used as controls) by Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS). This analysis noted a significant increase in Zn, Cu, and Fe concentrations in X-ray technicians' hair. But in blood, Zn and Cu were depleted, whereas Fe was increased. Such changes in trace metal concentrations among X-ray technicians were noted where occupational exposure to radiation was for longer than three years. Through composite risk analysis, by using Zn:Fe as an indicator, it was noted that blood gave a stronger indication than hair in analyzing and estimating risk.
Study of trace elements in blood of cancer patients by proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) analysis.	Proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) analysis was employed to determine the concentrations of six elements in the plasma and erythrocytes of 18 cancer subjects (15 males and 3 females) with neoplastic disorders and in 70 controls (35 males and 35 females). It was found that the concentrations of Br, K, and Zn were significantly elevated in the erythrocytes of the cancer subjects compared to the controls, whereas the concentration of Fe was significantly depressed, but with no difference observed in the concentration of Ca. In the plasma, the concentrations of Br, Cu, Ca, and K were significantly elevated, whereas the concentrations of Fe and Zn were found to be significantly depressed compared to the controls.
Elemental concentrations in nigerians with affective disorders using proton-induced X-ray emission.	The concentrations of a number of elements are determined in the plasma and erythrocytes of 21 Nigerians (11 females, 10 males) with symptomatic affective disorders (11 depressives, 10 manics) and in 40 normal controls using proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) analysis. The study shows that there is significant elevation of plasma K and Zn, as well as the erythrocyte S in the patients relative to the controls. The plasma and erythrocyte Cu, and the erythrocyte P, Ca, Fe, and Zn are significantly lower in the patients compared to the controls. However, the plasma levels of Ca, S, Fe, and Br are similar in both the patients and the controls. Similarly, the concentrations of K, Br, and Rb show no significant difference in the erythrocytes of patients and controls.
Determination of trace elements in normal and diabetic whole blood by neutron activation analysis.	The concentration of 10 trace elements in samples of normal and diabetic whole blood were investigated by neutron activation analysis (NAA). Instrumental NAA (INAA) was used for determination of Co, Cr, Hg, Rb, Se, and Zn, whereas NAA with radiochemical separation (RNAA) was employed for determination of Al, Cu, Mg, and Mn. The results for normal blood compare well with literature values. Co, Cr, Se, and Zn show lower values in diabetes than in the normal blood samples.
Levels of some trace elements in serum of Prague inhabitants measured by INAA.	Sera of 240 randomly selected Prague inhabitants of both sexes from ages 6 to 65 yr were analyzed by instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) for Fe, Zn, Se, Rb, Cs, and Sc. Significant differences were found between serum Fe and Zn levels of men from Prague and from rural regions of Central Bohemia. Concentration of Se was one of the lowest in Europe and exhibited age-dependent, but not sex-dependent changes. Age-dependent changes of serum concentrations were also found for Rb, Cs, and Sc, whereas sex-dependent changes were detected for Zn, Rb, Cs, and Sc.
RNAA as compared to ICP-MS for the analysis of normal human serum.	The merits of radiochemical neutron activation analysis (RNAA) and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) are critically discussed for the determination of trace and ultratrace elements in normal human serum. For RNAA, two semiautomated procedures, allowing the determination of up to 18 elements, are briefly described. ICP-MS has a series of interesting features for the determination of trace elements. Matrix and spectral interferences can mostly be avoided or corrected for. After a simple 5- or 10-fold dilution and addition of an internal standard, more than 20 elements can be measured precisely and accurately.
Effects of acupuncture on blood pressure, SOD,LPO and five kinds of trace elements to stenosis of renal artery caused hypertension in rats]	Changes of blood pressure, superoxide dismutase (SOD), lipid peroxidation (LPO) and concentration of five kinds of trace elements including Cu, Zn, Fe, Ca, Mg were observed before or after acupuncture treatment in the stenosis of renal artery caused hypertension in rats [correction of mice]. It was demonstrated that acupuncture in the points of Zusanli, Neiguan, Sanyinjiao and Yongquan in mice could reduce the blood pressure significantly and influence the concentrations of SOD, LPO and five kinds of trace elements in the stenosis of renal artery caused hypertension in mice. The possible mechanisms of acupuncture in reducing the blood pressure and influencing the changes of SOD, LPO and five kinds of trace elements were also discussed.
Trace elements analysis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid with PIXE--effect of age and changes in parkinsonian patients]	The concentrations of Br, Cu, Fe, Se, Zn, Mg were determined by particle-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 13 untreated, 7 L-dopa treated parkinsonian patients and 25 controls. There were significant positive correlations between serum concentrations and CSF concentrations of Br, Cu, Fe. The Cu/Zn ratio in the serum and the CSF/serum ratio of Br were significantly increased with age in normal controls. The mean CSF concentration of Mg in both treated and untreated parkinsonian patients was lower than in controls. PIXE is a valuable method for multielemental analysis of the serum and CSF.
Trace elements balance in treated phenylketonuria children. Consequences of selenium deficiency on lipid peroxidation]	We studied Ca and Mg and trace elements (Zn, Cu, Fe, Mn, Se) in 15 P.K.U. children treated with strict Phe-reduced diet and in a control group. P.K.U. children are significantly lower (p < 0.01) plasma and erythrocyte Se as well as significantly lower (p < 0.01) activities of Glutathione-Peroxidase (GSH-Px), a seleno-dependent enzyme in erythrocytes and in plasma. Concomitantly with defective GSH-Px activities we observe significantly (p < 0.01) increased levels of lipid peroxidation products: malonaldialdehyde (MDA) and organic hydroperoxides (O.H.P.). So, Se supplementation appears to be necessary in low phenylalanine products used in P.K.U. treatment.
Combined action of lead and lithium on essential and nonessential elements in rat blood.	The effects of lead and lithium ingestion, separately and in combination, on the levels of K, Fe, Cu, Zn, Br, Rb, and As in rat blood were studied by the Energy Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence technique. Two different doses of lead acetate, i.e., 50 and 100 mg/Kg body wt (low and high doses), were administered orally to rats, daily, for 1 and 4 months (short and long terms), whereas lithium in the form of lithium carbonate was given to rats in food (1.1 g/kg diet) for 1 and 4 mo separately, and also to rats receiving lower and higher doses of lead. K levels were found to be depressed significantly with lead treatment, whereas Fe contents were enhanced marginally after 1 mo of treatment when only the higher dose of lead was given. As, Br, and Rb contents were found to be elevated following lead treatment for short and long terms at both the dose levels. However, Cu contents were lowered, whereas Zn contents were raised only after long term treatment with lead. The Fe, Cu, As, and Br contents remained unaltered, whereas K, Rb, and Zn contents were reduced significantly when lithium was administered for short term. Moreover, Cu and Fe levels were also found to be reduced and Br contents were enhanced only after long term treatment. During the combined treatment with lead and lithium for short and long terms, the levels of K, As, and Rb were observed to decrease, whereas Fe contents were enhanced when estimated for both doses of lead. On the contrary, Cu levels were lowered only with the higher dose of lead acetate when given in combination with lithium for 1 and 4 mo. Br contents were only effectively decreased after 4 mo of treatment.
Influence of 12-week nicotine treatment and dietary copper on blood pressure and indices of the antioxidant system in male spontaneous hypertensive rats.	Nicotine treatment and copper (Cu) deficiency have been associated with an increased production of reactive oxygen species that may contribute to the development and/or progression of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). The present study investigated the influence of dietary Cu intake on the response to chronic nicotine treatment in spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR) with respect to tissue trace mineral levels, several components of the oxidant defense system, and lipid peroxidation rates. SHR weighing 100-110 g were fed a Cu deficient diet (-Cu) (0.5 microgram Cu/g) for 14 d prior to nicotine treatment. SHR were inserted with tablets that released nicotine at a rate of 75 micrograms/h or placebo (control). Following tablet insertion, rats were fed a control diet (+Cu) (12.0 micrograms Cu/g) or the -Cu diet. Nicotine treatment lasted for 12 wk. Blood pressure (BP) was higher in nicotine-treated SHR than in control SHR at wk 3; BP was unaffected by diet. BP was higher in +Cu nicotine-treated SHR at wk 6 compared to -Cu nicotine and control rats. BP was not affected by nicotine or diet at wk 2. Liver, heart, and brain Cu levels and liver, heart, and red cell CuZn superoxide dismutase and plasma ceruloplasmin oxidase activities were lower in the -Cu SHR than in the +Cu SHR. Liver Fe levels were higher and plasma Fe levels were lower in the -Cu rats than in the +Cu rats. Liver selenium-dependent-glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSH-Px) activity was lower in the -Cu rats than in the +Cu rats; heart and thoracic aorta Se-GSH-Px activity was unaffected by -Cu diet. Thoracic aorta, liver, and heart GSH-reductase activities were unaffected by treatments. Plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were higher in the -Cu than in the +Cu SHR. Liver and heart TBARS production was similar among the groups. These data show that nicotine can exacerbate the development of high BP in susceptible individuals; Cu deficiency did not exacerbate the effects of nicotine.
Effects of boron supplementation on bone mineral density and dietary, blood, and urinary calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, and boron in female athletes.	The effects of boron supplementation on blood and urinary minerals were studied in female college students--17 athletes and 11 sedentary controls--over a one-year period. The athletes had lower percent body fat and higher aerobic capacities than sedentary controls. Athletic subjects consumed more boron in their normal diets than sedentary subjects; all other dietary measures were similar between the two groups. The athletes showed a slight increase in bone mineral density, whereas the sedentary group showed a slight decrease. Serum phosphorus concentrations were lower in boron-supplemented subjects than in subjects receiving placebos, and were lower at the end of the study period than during baseline analysis. Activity depressed changes in serum phosphorus in boron-supplemented subjects. Serum magnesium concentrations were greatest in the sedentary controls whose diets were supplemented with boron, and increased with time in all subjects. A group x supplement interaction was observed with serum magnesium; exercise in boron-supplemented subjects lowered serum magnesium. In all subjects, calcium excretion increased over time; in boron-supplemented subjects, boron excretion increased over time. In all subjects, boron supplementation affected serum phosphorus and magnesium, and the excretion of urinary boron.
Micronutrient concentrations in the HIV wasting syndrome.	We measured micronutrient values in patients with the HIV wasting syndrome and in other HIV-seropositive patients to determine whether specific micronutrient deficiencies were associated with the wasting syndrome.
Trace element reference values in tissues from inhabitants of the European Community. V. Review of trace elements in blood, serum and urine and critical evaluation of reference values for the Danish population.	The availability of accurate trace element reference values in human tissues represents an important indicator to the health status of the general population and occupational groups exposed to trace elements. The EURO TERVIHT project (Trace Element Reference Values In Human Tissues) aims to establish and compare trace element reference values in tissues from inhabitants of the European Community as baseline values for clinical/toxicological assessment studies (Sabbioni et al., 1992, Sci. Total Environ., 120: 39-62). In this context, one of the first steps considered is the critical evaluation (state of the art) of existing literature on trace element reference values in blood, serum and urine in the general population of each EC country. This paper reviews the Danish situation.
Dietary glutathione intake in humans and the relationship between intake and plasma total glutathione level.	Glutathione may function as an anticarcinogen by acting as an antioxidant or by binding with cellular mutagens. Orally administered glutathione increases plasma glutathione levels, and plasma glutathione is also synthesized in the liver. To investigate the associations between glutathione intake and plasma glutathione level, we compared dietary intake estimates from food frequency questionnaire data and measured concentrations of plasma total glutathione and other serum antioxidants in 69 white men and women. Daily glutathione intake ranged from 13.0 to 109.9 mg (mean 34.8 mg). Fruits and vegetables were found to contribute over 50% of usual dietary glutathione intake, whereas meats contributed less than 25%. Small negative correlations were observed between dietary and plasma glutathione and, although they were usually not statistically significant, they were generally consistent by different time periods of dietary intake assessment. Adjustment for sex, age, caloric intake, and dietary intake of the sulfur-containing amino acids methionine and cystine did not alter the observed associations. The correlations appeared to be modified, however, by serum vitamin C concentration, with little or no association between dietary and plasma glutathione among those with lower levels of serum vitamin C and stronger negative correlations among those with higher serum vitamin C levels. These findings indicate that factors regulating plasma glutathione concentration are complex and not simply related to dietary glutathione intake or supply of precursor amino acids.
Effects of erythropoietin on trace elements in patients with chronic renal failure undergoing hemodialysis.	We examined the relationship between recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) therapy and serum levels of the trace elements aluminum, silicon, zinc, nickel, and manganese in 55 patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis (HD) in whom rHuEPO (for 12 weeks) was effective in reducing anemia, and in 55 patients undergoing HD without rHuEPO treatment. In the rHuEPO group, serum Al level was significantly decreased and Si level showed a tendency to decrease. Zn, Ni, and Mn levels, however, were significantly increased.
Studies on the concentration of arsenic, selenium, copper, zinc and iron in the blood of blackfoot disease patients in different clinical stages.	Flame atomic absorption spectrophotometric methods were developed for the determination of zinc, copper, arsenic, iron and selenium in blood samples. Data from blackfoot disease patients in five clinical stages were compared with those from healthy controls. Copper concentrations were the same for all clinical stages. Arsenic increased in the initial three stages but decreased thereafter, although arsenic was previously considered to be the major causative agent of the disease. The decrease of arsenic in the later stages was attributed to the antagonistic effect of selenium, and the decrease of iron during the progress of the disease is thought to be due to the antagonistic effect of arsenic in the initial stages and the loose of haemoglobin in the later stages.
Micronutrients and HIV-1 disease progression.	To determine whether nutritional status affects immunological markers of HIV-1 disease progression.
Storage and preservation of blood and urine for trace element analysis. A review.	In any well-defined study, a sample preservation and storage scheme compatible with the information or analyte sought should be incorporated. This article emphasizes the need for preservation and storage of biological fluids collected for trace element determination; cites the major factors, such as container material, container pretreatment, storage time, storage temperature, and contamination of the laboratory environment affecting preservation; presents a historical account of the available literature studies on the preservation and storage of trace metals in whole blood, plasma, serum, and urine; and makes recommendations on the most effective storage and preservation methods.
Effect of oestrone on the natural killer (NK) cell activity, antioxidant status and tumour growth in athymic mice xenografted with human tumours.	Natural killer (NK) cells have been described as being very sensitive to oxidative stress. Thus it has been previously shown that chronic administration of oestrone in drinking water of athymic mice xenografted with a wide variety of human tumours, increases their growth and development. In this study an investigation was made to see whether oestrone supplementation could influence the NK cell activity by changes in the antioxidant defences which result in an oxidative stress and influence the proliferation of tumours. Supplementary oestrone was administered in drinking water of athymic mice xenografted with two different human tumours which lack oestrogen receptors: a bladder carcinoma and a small-cell lung carcinoma. The growth of the urothelial carcinoma was poorly affected by oestrone, but oestrone significantly (p<0.01) increased the proliferation of the small-cell lung carcinoma. The average uterus weight was increased by 62% in oestrone treated mice with no modifications in plasma zinc and selenium status, nor in erythrocyte copper zinc superoxide dismutase level. Nevertheless a slight decrease in erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase activity was noted. Trace elements and antioxidant enzymes in liver homogenates remained unchanged. Oestrone treatment also had no effect on plasma and liver lipid peroxides. The immune response was evaluated by measuring NK activity of splenocytes against 51Cr labelled YAC-I target cells. A 35.5% decrease in the NK activity (p<0.001) was observed after oestrone treatment and may be responsible for graft tolerance. However, the results of these experiments seem to exclude the role of oxidative stress in the modulation of NK activity.
Micronutrient status in elderly people. Geriatrie/Min. Vit. Aux Network.	A biochemical assessment of the vitamin and trace element status of 756 institutionalized elderly men and women, 66-103 years old (average 83.5 +/- 7.6 y), was conducted in 26 nursing homes in different areas of France. Serum concentrations of beta- and alpha-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, retinol, alpha- and gamma-tocopherol, vitamin C, zinc and selenium were measured. A difference in biochemical markers according to sex was observed for vitamins E and C: elderly women had higher levels of alpha-tocopherol and vitamin C than elderly men. When expressed as a ratio of cholesterol, the difference between sexes for alpha-tocopherol disappeared. Simple regression analysis showed that most vitamins and trace elements were significantly negatively correlated with age. A high prevalence of low concentrations of vitamin C, zinc and selenium was revealed.
Simultaneous determination of iron, zinc, selenium, rubidium, and cesium in serum and packed blood cells by neutron activation analysis.	We determined the iron, zinc, selenium, rubidium, and cesium concentrations in serum and packed blood cells by instrumental neutron activation analysis without chemical separations. Lyophilized samples were irradiated for 12 days at a flux of 10(13) neutrons-cm-2-s-1, mineralized by wet digestion, and measured two times with a high-resolution Ge(Li) detector--for 6 h about a month after the irradiation and for 15 h two or three months after the irradiation, The following values were obtained: 163 +/- 0.43 mg/liter (serum iron), 1025 +/- 136 mg/kg wet wt (packed cells iron), 1¿ +/- 0.20 mg/liter (serum zinc), 11.15 +/- 1.83 mg/kg wet wt (packed cells zinc), 0.13 +/- 0.02 mg/liter (serum selenium), 0.16 +/- 0.03 mg/kg wet wt (packed cells selenium), 0.17 +/- 0.04 mg/liter (serum rubidium), 4.28 +/- 0.98 mg/kg wet wt (packed cells rubidium), 0.74 +/- 0.20 microgram/liter (serum cesium), and 4.82 +/- 2.10 microgram/kg wet wt (packed cells cesium).
Indices of lead-exposure in blood and urine of lead-exposed workers and concentrations of major and trace elements and activities of SOD, GSH-Px and catalase in their blood.	Seventy male factory workers were studied. The lead concentrations in their blood (Pb-B) were 16.55 +/- 11.53 micrograms/100 ml (range 1.5 to 50.2 micrograms/100 ml). The subjects were divided into three groups according to Pb-B (in microgram/100 ml): group A, Pb-B < or = 10 (n = 22); group B, 10 < Pb-B < or = 20 (n = 30); group C, Pb-B > 20 (n = 18). The mean +/- S.D. in each group was 5.57 +/- 2.53, 15.02 +/- 2.75, and 32.52 +/- 9.49 micrograms/100 ml, respectively. Pb in plasma was 0.011 +/- 0.010, 0.017 +/- 0.033, and 0.021 +/- 0.021 microgram/liter, and Pb in the RBC was 0.281 +/- 0.246, 0.701 +/- 0.325, and 1.626 +/- 0.861 micrograms/g Hb, respectively. In addition to Pb concentration, the concentrations of 34 elements in the plasma or in the RBC were determined. Se concentrations in RBC in each group were 0.618 +/- 0.139, 0.670 +/- 0.207, and 0.728 +/- 0.200 microgram/g Hb, and the mean values were significantly different between groups A and C (p < 0.05). For Se concentration in plasma, the mean +/- S.D. in each group was 0.132 +/- 0.035, 0.130 +/- 0.031, and 0.126 +/- 0.021 microgram/ml, respectively, and there was no significant difference between groups. On the other hand, when the activities of total SOD, Mn-SOD, Cu, Zn-SOD, and catalase in the plasma and the activities of GSH-Px both in the plasma and in the RBC were assayed, some differences were found. The activities in GSH-Px in RBC were 17.19 +/- 5.03, 17.59 +/- 3.95, and 15.25 +/- 3.18 mumol/g Hb/min, and those in plasma were 0.069 +/- 0.032, 0.081 +/- 0.023, and 0.080 +/- 0.028 mumol/ml/min. In group C, GSH-Px activity was lower in the RBC and higher in the plasma than those in group A, and it was observed that the Se concentration was higher in RBC, and that there was no remarkable change in the plasma. Catalase activity in group C was 3.58 +/- 0.81 mgH2O2/ml/30 min, which was significantly higher than that in group A (2.81 +/- 0.90 mgH2O2/ml/30 min). Further investigation is necessary in order to explain the above results. The regular indices used for evaluating lead exposure, showed significant correlations with Pb-B: r = -0.786 vs delta-Aminolevulinic acid (ALA) dehydratase activity in blood, r = 0.927 vs. inhibition rate, and r = 0.339 vs. ALA in urine.
Determination of rare earth elements in blood serum reference sample by chelating resin preconcentration and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.	Rare earth elements (REEs) in a blood serum reference sample, which is a freeze-dried sample issued from the National Institute for Environmental Studies, Japan, have been determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) after sample digestion and concentration pretreatment. The freeze-dried serum sample (ca. 0.8 g), which corresponded to 10 ml of original blood serum, was digested with HNO3 with heating on a hot plate. The digested sample was then diluted with 100 ml of 0.1 M HNO3, and REEs in the diluted solution were adsorbed on chelating resin (Chelex 100). The resin was then filtered with a glass filter. Finally, REEs on the resin were dissolved with 10 ml of 2 M HNO3 aqueous solution, and the sample solution was analyzed by ICP-MS. The concentrations of all the REEs were successfully determined by the present method. The recovery values of REEs were in the range of 70-80%, and the relative standard deviation of the recovery values in repeated experiments (n = 3) was less than 5% for all REEs. In addition, 20 other elements were also determined by ICP-MS and ICP-AES.
Altered antioxidant enzyme activities in children with a serious adverse experience related to valproic acid therapy.	Specific oxidative metabolites of valproic acid (VPA) have been associated with the clinically defined toxicity of the drug. To investigate the role of enzymatic detoxification in clinical toxicity, we compared activities of five antioxidant enzymes in 15 patients with a serious adverse experience (SAE) related to VPA therapy, to enzyme activities measured in 35 patients with good clinical tolerance of VPA, and 50 healthy, age-matched subjects. These enzymes included glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase (GSSG-R), glutathione transferase, superoxide dismutase, and catalase in erythrocytes; and GSH-Px in plasma. We also determined levels of Se, Cu, and Zn, trace elemental cofactors for these enzymes, in plasma from each individual. In patients with a VPA-associated SAE, GSH-Px was significantly depressed and GSSG-R was significantly elevated relative to values for the other groups. Selenium and zinc concentrations were lower in SAE patients than in controls. These findings may indicate a role for selenium dependent antioxidant activity in individual susceptibility to an SAE related to VPA therapy.
The plasma antioxidant status and trace elements in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia treated with LDL-apheresis]	Oxidation of low density lipoprotein is involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Epidemiological studies suggest a negative correlation between the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases and blood concentrations of lipophilic antioxidants such as vitamin A and E and beta-carotene. Trace elements such as selenium, zinc and copper are involved in the activity of antioxidant enzymes: glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase. The aim of this work was to determine the antioxidant and trace elements status of patients with very severe hypercholesterolemia and who were treated by dextran sulphate low density lipoprotein apheresis, in comparison with two control populations: one constituted by normocholesterolemic subjects and the other by hypercholesterolemic patients before treatment. Our results showed that, as compared with normocholesterolemic subjects, patients treated by LDL-apheresis were not deficient in vitamin E, beta-carotene and copper but had low plasma levels of selenium, zinc and vitamin A. The low selenium and vitamin A levels were due to the treatment by LDL-apheresis by itself, while the hypercholesterolemia of these patients might have provoked the low plasma levels of zinc. This study pointed out the interest of a supplement of selenium, zinc and vitamin A in patients treated by LDL-apheresis.
The efficacy of trypsin: chymotrypsin preparation in the reduction of oxidative damage during burn injury.	This study was mainly aimed to investigate the efficacy of trypsin:chymotrypsin to elicit anti-oxidant properties. In our earlier studies it was observed that the enzyme preparation exhibited an anti-inflammatory action as there was a remarkable reduction in oedema formation and tissue destruction. This led to further study on the amount of lipid peroxidation products formed and the levels of enzymatic and non-enzymatic anti-oxidants and relative trace element contents of copper, selenium, iron and zinc during administration of the enzyme preparation. Decreased formation of lipid peroxidation products was observed in treated group in comparison with the untreated group. Higher levels of enzymatic anti-oxidants mainly super oxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-s-transferase and non-enzymatic antioxidant namely ceruloplasmin persisted for a longer period of time in the treated group than in the untreated group. No statistical significance was observed in non-enzymatic antioxidants viz. ascorbic acid and tocopherol levels in both the groups. Increased serum copper and selenium levels in the treated group could be related to higher levels of the ceruloplasmin and glutathione peroxidase observed in the treated group. The above studies support the finding that treatment with the enzyme preparation reduced tissue destruction leading to decreased formation of free radicals and subsequent effective scavenging of free radicals by the higher levels of enzymatic and non-enzymatic anti-oxidants.
Erythrocyte antioxidant activity and trace element levels in Behçet's disease.	Selenium (Se), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), and antioxidant enzyme (superoxide dismutase [SOD] and glutathione peroxidase [GSH-Px]) levels in sera were detected in Behçet patients. Age and sex matched controls were used to find out if oxidative stress takes place in the etiopathogenesis of Behçet's disease. Superoxide dismutase levels were found to be lower in the whole patients group when compared to controls. In whole patients and inactive patients' group Zn and Se levels were found to be higher, but not different in the active patients group when compared to controls. No significant difference was found between the groups as Cu and glutathione peroxidase levels were taken into consideration. According to the results of the present study, SOD level is low in Behçet's disease patients' sera independent from the phase of the disease, and as a result of decreased SOD activity, increased production of free oxygen radicals may play a role in the etiopathogenesis of the disease.
Trace element correlations in the blood of Indian women with breast cancer.	Fourteen minor (Na, K, P, Fe) and trace (Br, Co, Cr, Cs, Hg, Rb, Sb, Se, Sr, Zn) elements have been determined in pre- and postoperative blood samples of 10 breast-cancer-affected. Indian women and compared with controls. The study showed elevation of Cr, Hg, Fe, Rb, Sb, and Zn and lowering of Se, K, P, and Sr contents in the blood of cancer patients. Most elemental contents in pre- and postoperative stages remain unaltered except Br, Co, and Sb. Statistical significance of Fe, Se, Zn, and Hg levels has been tested by box plots. Lowering of Se in blood (-54.4%) is correlated with its enhancement in cancerous breast tissue (94.7%) of various clinical stages. Se/Zn and Se/Fe ratios are lowered in the blood of cancer patients, whereas Na/K ratio is only marginally enhanced. An attempt has been made to correlate Se levels with the dietary intake and breast cancer risk vis-a-vis American and Japanese women.
Comparative relationship between copper-zinc plasma concentrations and superoxide dismutase activity in camels and cows.	On an experimental farm, five camels and five cows were fed with a similar basal diet over a 6-month period. They received an oral trace element supplement for 3 months (days 22-112). This supplement contained zinc and copper sulphate, and corresponded to twice the daily requirement generally recommended for cows. Plasma zinc and copper concentrations were significantly lower in camels (44 micrograms/100 mL for copper and 38 micrograms/100 mL for zinc) than in cows (106 and 83 micrograms/100 mL, respectively). The supplementation had no effect on the plasma zinc concentration in the camels in spite of the low observed values. The mean erythrocyte SOD activity was also significantly higher in the cows (2,404 +/- 211 IU/100 gHb) than in the camels (1,720 +/- 312 IU/100 gHb). In both species, no correlation was found between copper plasma concentration and erythrocyte SOD activity. In cows, a positive relationship was observed between plasma zinc concentration and SOD activity (r = 0.396). In contrast, a negative relationship was found in camels (r = -0.369). These results are discussed in relation to the physiological peculiarities of the camel.
