The New South Wales Resource Allocation Formula: a method for equitable health funding.	The Resource Allocation Formula has been developed to guide the allocation of health resources in NSW. The aim of the formula is to achieve a more geographically equitable distribution of resources compared to the concentration of facilities which resulted from the historical method of allocating on the basis of past expenditure. A key innovation in the formula is the separation of funding for tertiary referral services using Diagnosis Related Groups. Tertiary services are funded separately and assessed on the present and projected statewide activity levels. By contrast, primary and secondary health services are to be funded on the basis of adjusted population relativities. The formula, which has been approved for use in NSW sets notional target shares for each Area and Region ten years hence. Implementation of these shares is to be achieved through a progressive redistribution of funds.
A model of determining a fair market value for teaching residents: who profits?	Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Health Resources and Services Administration Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education (GME) Payment Program now supports freestanding children's teaching hospitals.
The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and the financial health of teaching hospitals.	We wanted to evaluate the most recent, complete data related to the specific effects of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 relative to the overall financial health of teaching hospitals. We also define cost report variables and calculations necessary for continued impact monitoring.
Survey of emergency medicine resident debt status and financial planning preparedness.	Most resident physicians accrue significant financial debt throughout their medical and graduate medical education. The objective of this study was to analyze emergency medicine resident debt status, financial planning actions, and educational experiences for financial planning and debt management.
Title VII funding and physician practice in rural or low-income areas.	Whether Title VII funding enhances physician supply in underserved areas has not clearly been established.
Searching for an efficient institutional review board review model: Interrelationship of trainee-investigators, funding, and initial approval.	In this study we sought to identify variables associated with institutional review board (IRB) decisions to develop an efficient "pre-IRB" review model. We explored several variables, including relationships among the identification of trainees as investigators, external sources of funding, and initial approval. The sample consisted of all new submissions reviewed by the 2 medical IRBs at the University of Miami (UM) during a 1-year period. Trainees included students, residents, and fellows. At least 1 trainee had to be identified for a proposal to be considered a trainee submission. The medical-science committees (MSCs) were similar with regard to the numbers of new submissions they reviewed during convened meetings (MSC-A 242, MSC-B 241) and the percentages of proposals that were initially approved (MSC-A 52.9%, MSC-B 53.1%). Approved submissions were defined as those initially approved or conditionally approved pending minor modifications. We noted a robust statistical difference between the percentages of trainee submissions initially approved (39.9%) and submissions that did not identify a trainee (59.4%) ( P <.0001). Of the proposals that were initially not approved (tabled [deferred] or rejected [not approved]), 28.9% of those including a trainee were rejected, compared with 11.0% without a trainee ( P <.001). Proposals in which the source of funding was identified were more likely to be approved (64.2%) than were those in which it was not (30.8%) ( P <.0001). Funding also seemed to influence the trainee and initial-approval interaction. Our results show that new submissions that identified trainee investigators were more likely to be deferred or not approved than those that did not. Nonapproved proposals that identified a trainee were 3.8 times more likely to be initially rejected than those that did not. A prereview model could target those submissions that list a trainee, lack funding, or both.
Creating a substance abuse network in family medicine: lessons learned.	Family practice was one of several primary care specialties awarded federal contracts in 1985 to survey substance abuse training needs. Family medicine has since excelled in creating a viable substance abuse network. Key events were the sponsorship of a fellowship program, the formation of the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine (STFM) Substance Abuse Working Group, and the working group's pursuit of externally funded projects. Tangible measures of the network's success include collective funding exceeding $7.3 million, an increase in the number of substance abuse activities at annual STFM conferences, and a nearly four-fold growth in the group's membership and collaborative publications. Key factors underlying the vitality of the network that may be generalizable include: 1) initial emphasis on training family physician faculty; 2) making optimal use of the existing administrative channels within STFM; 3) acquisition of external funding; 4) some continuity of core persons working together; 5) active networking within and outside family medicine; and 6) promotion of individual success.
Financing radiology graduate medical education: today's challenges.	Radiology graduate medical education (GME) is exposed to huge financial challenges. First, there is a continuous increase in demand for imaging services by referring doctors and the general population, aggravating the staff shortage. Second, there has been an important decline in reimbursements. Third and probably most important is the progressive reduction of federal funds subsidizing GME. Medicare is the largest single contributor to GME. The Balanced Budget Act (BBA) of 1997 introduced reductions in Medicare payments to the major teaching hospitals calculated at $5.6 billion over the first 5 years after implementation. The BBA also brought other changes directly affecting GME. Financial changes in health care over the past decade have increased the pressure on academic institutions, which must preserve or improve the quality of training and the quality of care and manage an increased workload with fewer funds available and a narrow margin for errors. Yet the use of new technology promises to help simplify processes, decreasing workloads for residents and faculty members and increasing overall productivity, and new sources of funding have been suggested. By reviewing the financial challenges of radiologic training in today's academic centers, the authors reach the conclusion that there is still space for improving academic quality and the quality of care within current financial boundaries. But more reliable data about the specific benefits and drawbacks of having a residency program in a clinical radiology department are required.
The costs of training a nurse practitioner in primary care: the importance of allowing for the cost of education and training when making decisions about changing the professional-mix.	What is already known on this topic * Cost containment through the most effective mix of staff achievable within available resources and organisational priorities is of increasing importance in most health systems. However, there is a dearth of information about the full economic implications of changing skill mix. * In the UK a major shift in the primary care workforce is likely in response to the rapidly developing role of nurse practitioners and policies aimed to encourage GP practices to transfer some of their responsibilities to other, less costly, professionals. * Previous research has developed an approach to incorporating the costs of qualifications, and thus the investment required to develop a skilled workforce, for a variety of health service professionals including GPs. What this study adds * This paper describes a methodology of costing nurse practitioners that incorporates the human capital cost implications of developing a skilled nurse practitioner workforce. With appropriate sources of data the method could be adapted for use internationally. * Including the full cost of qualifications results in nearly a 24 per cent increase in the unit cost of a Nurse Practitioner. * Allowing for all investment costs and adjusting for length of consultation, the cost of a GP consultation was nearly 60 per cent higher than that of a Nurse Practitioner.
Commercialization of dental education: have we gone too far?	Early U.S. dental training involved a closer relationship between commercialism and education, which was strongly counteracted by university affiliations at the beginning of the twentieth century. With recent decreases in public support for higher education, schools have become increasingly dependent on private revenue sources, including corporate support. There are ethical risks as well as benefits from dental schools establishing business partnerships with corporations. In 2002, a private, for-profit company was responsible for the inception and direct funding of an orthodontic postgraduate program at a private U.S. university. In the last four years, this company has begun funding two additional orthodontic programs, both associated with U.S. public dental schools. Such partnerships with academic institutions represent unique corporate relationships with dental education that are fraught with ethical risks. The dental profession needs to preserve the appropriate autonomy of dental education from commercial influences in order to prevent erosion of academic and ethical standards that are critical to professional integrity and public trust.
Forty years of litigation involving medical students and their education: II. Issues of finance.	An analysis of reported state and federal adjudication from 1950 through 1989 was undertaken to identify trends in litigation involving medical students and undergraduate medical education. Of the 110 cited judicial decisions during that time, 59 (54%) involved disputes over financing medical education; 43 (73%) were litigated since 1985. This dramatic increase arises primarily from challenges to National Health Service Corps obligations and from attempts to discharge or reorganize debt under the Bankruptcy Code. Medical school graduates enjoyed very little success in these cases. Analysis of court decisions points to a need for informed counseling for medical students, particularly as to the consequences of timing in default on service obligations and of incurring loans under the Health Education Assistance Loan (HEAL) program as opposed to other loan sources. The growing educational debt of today's medical students foreshadows continued litigation in this area.
Grant funding priorities for primary care.	In this time of rapid change in medical education and health care financing, and because of a growing concern that we are not producing enough primary care physicians, it is appropriate that attention be given to significantly rewriting the authorization for Health Manpower Training Grants. Increased funding for primary care health manpower is one of the pieces that has the potential to increase the attractiveness of primary care specialties to students. The Title VII funding authorization has been critical in the support of many predoctoral, residency, and faculty development programs over the last 15 years and has the potential to become even more critical in the next five to 10 years. Specifically, there needs to be a doubling of the authorization of the funding for both the family medicine and the general internal medicine/general pediatric grant sections. The funding priorities need to be reexamined and service objective funding may need to be included. Predoctoral funding cycles should be added to the general internal medicine/general pediatrics 784 grant cycle. Increased creativity and thought should be given to faculty development programs. The academic disciplines and their professional societies, specifically the Ambulatory Pediatrics Association, the Society of General Internal Medicine, and the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine, are supportive of these issues and believe that an increase in funding will increase the effectiveness and output of primary care physicians so that we will be better able to meet the health care needs of our society.
Anesthesiology residents' medical school debt influence on moonlighting activities, work environment choice, and debt repayment programs: a nationwide survey.	The amount of education debt incurred by medical school graduates in the United States has grown considerably over the last 30 years; it has outpaced inflation to reach a mean of $158,000. With this dramatic increase in education debt, there has been limited information on how medical school debt loads of anesthesiology physicians impact their decisions concerning moonlighting and future career choices. Our aim was to survey current anesthesiology interns, residents, and fellows to assess the correlation between the amount of medical school debt they had collected and (1) their outlook toward moonlighting activities, (2) future career plans, and (3) choice of employer with a debt repayment program.
Accelerating physician workforce transformation through competitive graduate medical education funding.	Graduate medical education (GME) has fallen short in training physicians to meet changes in the US population and health care delivery systems. The shortfall in training has happened despite a consensus on the need for accelerated change. This article discusses the varied causes of GME inertia and proposes a new funding mechanism coupled to a competitive peer-review process. The result would be to reward GME programs that are aligned with publicly set priorities for specialty numbers and training content. New teaching organizations and residency programs would compete on an equal footing with existing ones. Over a decade, all current programs would undergo peer review, with low review scores leading to partial, but meaningful, decreases in funding. This process would incentivize incremental and continual change in GME and would provide a mechanism for funding innovative training through special requests for proposals. 
The geography of graduate medical education: imbalances signal need for new distribution policies.	Graduate medical education (GME) determines the overall number, specialization mix, and geographic distribution of the US physician workforce. Medicare GME payments-which represent the largest single public investment in health workforce development-are allocated based on an inflexible system whose rationale, effectiveness, and balance are increasingly being scrutinized. We analyzed Medicare cost reports from teaching hospitals and found large state-level differences in the number of Medicare-sponsored residents per 100,000 population (1.63 in Montana versus 77.13 in New York), total Medicare GME payments ($1.64 million in Wyoming versus $2 billion in New York), payments per person ($1.94 in Montana versus $103.63 in New York), and average payments per resident ($63,811 in Louisiana versus $155,135 in Connecticut). Ways to address these imbalances include revising Medicare's GME funding formulas and protecting those states that receive less Medicare GME support in case funding is decreased and making them a priority if it is increased. The GME system badly needs a coordinating body to deliberate and make policy about public investments in graduate medical education. 
Cost of education and earning potential for non-physician anesthesia providers.	Potential non-physician anesthesia students gauge many different aspects of a graduate program prior to applying, but cost of education and earning potential are typically high priorities for students. Our analysis evaluated the cost of tuition for all certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) and anesthesiologist assistant (AA) programs in the United States, as well as earning potential for both professions. We collected educational cost data from school websites and salary data from the Medical Group Management Association's Physician Compensation and Production Survey: 2012 Report in order to compare the two groups. We found that the median cost of public CRNA programs is $40,195 and the median cost of private programs is $60,941, with an overall median of $51,720. Mean compensation for CRNAs in 2011 was $156,642. The median cost of public AA programs is $68,210 compared with $77,155 for private AA education, and an overall median cost of $76,037. Average compensation for AAs in 2011 was $123,328. Considering these factors, nurse anesthesia school is a better choice for candidates who already possess a nursing license; however, for those prospective students who are not nurses, AA school may be a more economical choice, depending on the type and location of practice desired.
Establishing a financial counseling and debt management program at Georgetown University School of Dentistry.	The financial counseling and debt management program described in this paper represents a model that, with modification, could be used in other dental schools. This model, developed specifically for Georgetown University dental students, is based on average economic profiles, average parental income and contribution, employment opportunities in the Washington area, and the average first-year starting salaries of recent graduates. Any dental school considering such a program should base its model on the profile of its students. It is essential that schools, students, and families begin to address the reality of indebtedness effectively. Creative measures can be taken to ensure that debt levels are manageable and that graduates can realize a return on their dental school investment.
A rationale for continued federal support of medical education.	Changing circumstances and shifting public attitudes are forcing policy makers and educators to reconsider the rationale for a continuing federal role in support of medical education. Federal institutional support programs are criticized as being inappropriate to current and future needs, socially inequitable and subject to abuse by a coercive governmental apparatus. A rationale for federal support can be advanced, but such support must be designed to avoid unwarranted subsidies and to encourage maximum reliance upon private-sector resources, and should be confined to functions for which the federal government in uniquely suited. The appropriate federal role is conceived as being the ultimate guarantor of financial access to the medical-education system by otherwise qualified students, perfecting the market for human-capital investment.
Gerontology and geriatrics in medical education.	The elderly are receiving more attention because of their increasing numbers and because of the substantial public funding for their health and welfare. This article summarizes the findings of an Institute of Medicine committee, whose recently completed report concludes that gerontology (study of aging) and geriatrics (care of the aged) are not covered adequately in medical education. Suggested remedies include increased attention to these subjects in existing medical-school courses, establishment of a complementary required course integrating information from diverse disciplines and emphasis in house-staff training programs on continuous care of the aged in settings other than acute-care facilities. Although an academic discipline of geriatrics is necessary to enhance teaching, research, and specialized patient care, development of a practice specialty would be unwise. More funds for training and research in gerontology and geriatrics are essential to increase the science base and to encourage the development of knowledgeable faculty.
Teaching hospital costs: implications for academic missions in a competitive market.	As the managed care environment demands lower prices and a greater focus on primary care, the high cost of teaching hospitals may adversely affect their ability to carry out academic missions.
