Influence of spinal cord protein hydrolysate upon the blood brain barrier changes due to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in Lewis rats. Ultrastructural study.	A specific protein (antigen) given orally is a known method of introducing tolerance of immunological response to this antigen. This method has recently been reviewed by some authors as a possible tool in the treatment of autoaggressive diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. The experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) respected animal model for MS was used for the study. The aim of the study was the evaluation of the effect of pig spinal cord protein hydrolysate given orally upon the ultrastructural changes in the blood-brain barrier image in EAE. Changes of EAE are as follows: opened channels from basal membrane (tight junction) on the border with astrocytes, fragments of organelles of the cells, oedema of astrocytes, presence of vesicles with fluid, presence of macrophages with phagolysosomes. After pre-treatment with spinal cord hydrolysate up to 6 weeks all the above changes were normalised. These findings are promising as a possible tool in the clinical treatment of sclerosis multiplex.
65Zn2+ transport by lobster hepato-pancreatic baso-lateral membrane vesicles.	The lobster (Homarus americanus) hepato-pancreatic epithelial baso-lateral cell membrane possesses three transport proteins that transfer calcium between the cytoplasm and hemolymph: an ATP-dependent calcium ATPase, a sodium-calcium exchanger, and a verapamil-sensitive cation channel. We used standard centrifugation methods to prepare purified hepato-pancreatic baso-lateral membrane vesicles and a rapid filtration procedure to investigate whether (65)Zn(2+) transfer across this epithelial cell border occurs by any of these previously described transporters for calcium. Baso-lateral membrane vesicles were osmotically reactive and exhibited a time course of uptake that was linear for 10-15 s and approached equilibrium by 120 s. In the absence of sodium, (65)Zn(2+) influx was a hyperbolic function of external zinc concentration and followed the Michaelis-Menten equation for carrier transport. This carrier transport was stimulated by the addition of 150 microM ATP (increase in K(m) and J(max)) and inhibited by the simultaneous presence of 150 micromol l(-1) ATP+250 micromol l(-1) vanadate (decrease in both K(m) and J(max)). In the absence of ATP, (65)Zn(2+) influx was a sigmoidal function of preloaded vesicular sodium concentration (0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 45, and 75 mmol l(-1)) and exhibited a Hill Coefficient of 4.03+/-1.14, consistent with the exchange of 3 Na(+)/1Zn(2+). Using Dixon analysis, calcium was shown to be a competitive inhibitor of baso-lateral membrane vesicle (65)Zn(2+) influx by both the ATP-dependent (K(i)=205 nmol l(-1) Ca(2+)) and sodium-dependent (K(i)=2.47 micromol l(-1) Ca(2+)) transport processes. These results suggest that zinc transport across the lobster hepato-pancreatic baso-lateral membrane largely occurred by the ATP-dependent calcium ATPase and sodium-calcium exchanger carrier proteins.
Siderophore and haem iron use by Tritrichomonas foetus.	The ability of the parasitic flagellate Tritrichomonas foetus to use various iron sources for its physiological requirements was studied. The siderophores ferrioxamine B, ferrichrome, triacetylfusarinine, coprogen, enterobactin and pyoverdine sustained growth of the cells under iron-limited conditions, and siderophore iron was incorporated into the major iron protein of T. foetus, ferredoxin. The kinetics of siderophore uptake by the cells indicated that a non-saturable transport is involved, unlike the uptake of a ferrous salt. Siderophore uptake by the cells did not involve extracellular reductive dissociation of the ferric chelates, although T. foetus cells had some ferrireductase activity on ferric citrate. Fluorescent analogues of siderophores were used to show that the siderophores taken up by the cells were in small intracellular vesicles. The fluorescence emission maximum of pyoverdine in these intracellular vesicles shifted from 460 nm to 530 nm, indicating a very acidic environment. The results suggest that a wide range of chemically unrelated siderophores can be taken up non-specifically and efficiently used by T. foetus; the mechanism involved may be pinocytosis and removal of the iron from the siderophores in acidic intracellular vesicles. Haemin also sustained the growth of T. foetus cells under iron-limited conditions. The use of haemin iron by the cells probably involves haem oxygenase, since traces of biliverdin were found in the medium when haemin was the iron source. The iron uptake and ferrireductase activities of the cells do not seem to be regulated by the amounts of iron and copper in the growth medium.
Upregulation of lipid synthesis in small rat adipocytes by microvesicle-associated CD73 from large adipocytes.	Filling-up lipid stores is critical for size increase of mammalian adipocytes. The glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein, CD73, is released from adipocytes into microvesicles in response to the lipogenic stimuli, palmitate, the antidiabetic sulfonylurea drug glimepiride, phosphoinositolglycans (PIG), and H(2)O(2). Upon incubation of microvesicles with adipocytes, CD73 is translocated to cytoplasmic lipid droplets (LD) and esterification is upregulated. The role of CD73-harboring microvesicles in coordinating esterification between differently sized adipocytes was studied here. Populations consisting of either small or large or of both small and large isolated rat adipocytes as well as native adipose tissue pieces from young and old rats were incubated with or depleted of endogenous microvesicles and analyzed for translocation of CD73 and esterification in response to the lipogenic stimuli. Large adipocytes exhibited higher and lower efficacy in releasing CD73 into microvesicles and in translocating CD73 to LD, respectively, compared to small adipocytes. Populations consisting of both small and large adipocytes were more active in esterification in response to the lipogenic stimuli than either small or large adipocytes. With both adipocytes and adipose tissue pieces from young rats esterification stimulation by the lipogenic stimuli was abrogated by depletion of CD73-harboring microvesicles from the incubation medium and interstitial spaces, respectively. In conclusion, stimulus-induced lipid synthesis between differently sized adipocytes is controlled by the release of microvesicle-associated CD73 from large cells and its subsequent translocation to LD of small cells. This information transfer via microvesicles harboring GPI-anchored proteins may shift the burden of triacylglycerol storage from large to small adipocytes.
