Ethoxyformylation and photooxidation of histidines in transferrins.	The chemical reactivity of histidines in ovotransferrin and human serum transferrin was studied utilizing two different reactions. Upon dye-sensitized photooxidation of ovotransferrin and ethoxyformylation of human serum transferrin and ovotransferrin, losses in histidine and iron-binding activity were observed. All of the histidines in both apoproteins could be ethoxyformylated by the use of 170 to 400 molar excesses of reagent resulting in complete loss in activity. The histidines of human serum transferrin showed a greater reactivity toward the reagent than did those of ovotransferrin. The binding of each iron protected two histidines from ethoxyformylation, and in both cases the proteins remained completely active. First-order losses in histidine and iron-binding activity were observed when ovotransferrin was irradiated in the presence of methylene blue. Comparison of the first-order rates indicates the loss of two histidines per binding site accounts for the inactivation of the protein. However, iron binding did not protect ovotransferrin from photoinactivation as expected. Evidence from both modification technqiues indicates: (1) Histidines are essential for iron-binding activity. (2) There are two essential histidines in each binding site. The advantages of using two modification reactions, ethoxyformylation and photooxidation, in the study of the functional role of histidines in proteins are demonstrated in this work.
Nutritional and energy metabolism changes in abdominal irradiation--experimental study]	In this study the effects on nutritional status and energetic metabolism due to abdominal irradiation were analysed. Adult male Wistar rats (48), were divided in two groups Control (C) and Radiated (R). The rats were maintained all time in metabolic cages. The study was done in two periods: Period 1 begun at 0 day, where rats adapted to cages and oral diet, had food and water "ad libitum". At the day 4 indirect calorimetric measurements were performed (calorimetry I). At Period 2, group R rats abdominal radiation at a 300cGy/day rate, for 5 consecutive days, and group C started a pair feeding process linked individually to R rats and suffered application of simulated-radiation. Two other calorimetric measurements (II,III) were performed during Period 2. After radiation the last calorimetry was performed (IV). At sacrifice (day 14) blood was collected for determination of hemoglobin, haematocrit, albumin and transferrin. There were no statistical differences among groups C and R during Period 1 (p < 0.05). Great reduction in food intake and weight variation were found in Period 2, but weight loss was significantly higher in R rats. Nitrogen balance decreased in Period 2, but without difference among the groups (p < 0.05). Serum albumin was significantly lower in R rats. Respiratory quotient decreased in both groups during Period 2, but R rats kept it lower (p < 0.05). The energy expenditure level decreased after radiation in Group R. During Period 2 total substrate oxidation decreased in R rats. Radiation decreased glucose and protein oxidation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
