A stereotactic method for image-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation validated with fMRI and motor-evoked potentials.	Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) delivers short magnetic pulses that penetrate the skull unattenuated, disrupting neural processing in a noninvasive, reversible way. To disrupt specific neural processes, coil placement over the proper site is critical. Therefore, a neural navigator (NeNa) was developed. NeNa is a frameless stereotactic device using structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data to guide TMS coil placement. To coregister the participant's head to his MRI, 3D cursors are moved to anatomical landmarks on a skin rendering of the participants MRI on a screen, and measured at the head with a position measurement device. A method is proposed to calculate a rigid body transformation that can coregister both sets of coordinates under realistic noise conditions. After coregistration, NeNa visualizes in real time where the device is located with respect to the head, brain structures, and activated areas, enabling precise placement of the TMS coil over a predefined target region. NeNa was validated by stimulating 5 x 5 positions around the 'motor hotspot' (thumb movement area), which was marked on the scalp guided by individual fMRI data, while recording motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) from the abductor pollicis brevis (APB). The distance between the center of gravity (CoG) of MEP responses and the location marked on the scalp overlying maximum fMRI activation was on average less then 5 mm. The present results demonstrate that NeNa is a reliable method for image-guided TMS coil placement.
Silent period to transcranial magnetic stimulation: construction and properties of stimulus-response curves in healthy volunteers.	Silent period (SP) is widely used in transcranial magnetic stimulation studies. Methodologically, SP is usually elicited at stimulus intensities corresponding to a certain percentage of corticomotor threshold. Because this approach might lead to factitious SP changes, the present study was designed to develop, in a stepwise manner, a method for investigating SP independently of corticomotor threshold. First, stimulus-response (S-R) curves of SP against stimulus intensity (SI) were constructed and quantitatively described in healthy volunteers. Second, various methodological issues such as the optimum model for describing the relationship between SP duration and SI and the importance of the type of stimulating coil were addressed. Finally, the proposed method and a commonly used method (eliciting SPs at 130% MT SI) were directly compared for a group of epileptic patients for whom administration of oxcarbazepine resulted in significant corticomotor threshold elevation. Twenty-one subjects (eleven females, median age, 38 years) were studied. SPs were obtained with a figure-of-eight coil using a standardized procedure (recording, FDI). Pilot experiments indicated that at least four trials were required, at each intensity level, to estimate the mean SP duration within 10% of the true mean. Therefore, SPs were determined from the average of four trials with 5% increments from 5 to 100% maximum SI. In a second set of experiments, SPs were obtained for fifteen subjects using a circular coil. In a third set of experiments, eight epileptic patients were studied before and after administration of oxcarbazepine (mean dose 1553 mg, range 900-1800 mg). The S-R curves were fitted to a Boltzman function and to first-order to fourth-order polynomial and sigmoid functions. The Boltzman function described the data accurately (R2=0.947-0.990). In addition, direct comparison of the six models with an F-test proved the superiority of the first. The best-fit parameters of the reference curve, i.e. the maximum and minimum values, the slope, and V50 (the SI at which SP duration is halfway between Min and Max) were 230.8+/-3.31 ms (x+/-SEM), -11.51+/-3.31 ms, 11.56+/-0.65%, and 49.82+/-0.65%, respectively. When the curves obtained with the circular coil were compared with those obtained with the figure-of-eight coil, there were differences between V50 (51.69+/-0.72 vs 47.95+/-0.82, P<0.001) and SP threshold (31.15 vs 24.77, P<0.01) whereas the other best-fit values did not differ significantly. Oxcarbazepine increased corticomotor threshold from 45.3+/-5.8% at baseline to 59.4+/-10.4% (P<0.001). According to the commonly used method, the drug significantly prolonged SP (from 117.6+/-42.4 ms to 143.5+/-46.5 ms, P<0.001) and, consequently, enhanced brain inhibition. In contrast, study of the SP curves led to the conclusion that oxcarbazepine does not affect the Max value and slope but significantly increases V50 and SP threshold (from 54.5+/-4.9% to 59.9+/-7.2% and from 29.1+/-6.4% to 34.6+/-6.8%, respectively, P<0.01). These findings imply that oxcarbazepine does not enhance brain inhibitory mechanisms. Thus, in situations characterized by significant changes in corticomotor threshold the proposed method provides results clearly different from a commonly used approach. It is concluded that S-R curves obtained with a figure-of-eight coil in 5% increments and fitted to a Boltzman function provide an accurate, comprehensive, and clinically applicable method for exploring SP.
Gaze-dependent deviation in pointing induced by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the human posterior parietal cortex.	Signals arising from the saccadic system influence the planning and generation of pointing movements, and the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) appears to play a vital role in that interaction. The authors demonstrate in the present study that during visual fixation, eye-position signals can dominate pointing responses when the activity in the PPC contralateral to the moving limb is disrupted with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). In particular, when presented with targets in peripheral vision, participants (N=5) exposed to TMS over the PPC failed to show the normal pattern of responses in which pointing movements end up farther away from the goal target. Instead, they tended to point more toward the current point of visual fixation. Those results suggest that the PPC is involved in integrating eye-position and visual information to affect reaching in the contralateral arm.
One session of high frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the right prefrontal cortex transiently reduces cocaine craving.	Cocaine dependence is a public health problem affecting 2 million individuals in USA. Craving is a predictor of subsequent cocaine use and is related to changes in brain activity in networks involving the prefrontal cortex.
rTMS to the right inferior parietal lobule disrupts self-other discrimination.	Self-other discrimination is fundamental to social interaction, however, little is known about the neural systems underlying this ability. In a previous functional magnetic resonance imaging study, we demonstrated that a right fronto-parietal network is activated during viewing of self-faces as compared with the faces of familiar others. Here we used image-guided repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to create a 'virtual lesion' over the parietal component of this network to test whether this region is necessary for discriminating self-faces from other familiar faces. The current results indeed show that 1 Hz rTMS to the right inferior parietal lobule (IPL) selectively disrupts performance on a self-other discrimination task. Applying 1 Hz rTMS to the left IPL had no effect. It appears that activity in the right IPL is essential to the task, thus providing for the first time evidence for a causal relation between a human brain area and this high-level cognitive capacity.
Exploring the physiological effects of double-cone coil TMS over the medial frontal cortex on the anterior cingulate cortex: an H2(15)O PET study.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) using a double-cone coil over the medial frontal cortex has the potential to clarify the function of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in cognition, emotion and mood disorders. Following demonstration of disruption of performance on psychological tasks closely linked to cingulate function using this TMS technique, the current study aimed to directly measure the regional distribution of physiological effects of stimulation in the brain with H2(15)O PET. Experiment 1 assessed the effect of increasing numbers of pulse trains of TMS on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Experiment 2 assessed the capacity of medial frontal TMS to modulate brain activity associated with the Stroop task using medial parietal TMS as a control site of stimulation. SPM99 analyses, using the ACC as a region of interest, revealed clusters of increased rCBF during medial frontal TMS in Brodmann area 24 and reduced rCBF in more ventral ACC, the latter occurring in both experiments. In a whole-brain analysis, striking changes in rCBF were observed distal to the ACC following medial frontal TMS. Although TMS reliably affected Stroop task performance in early trials, there was no interaction between TMS and Stroop condition in rCBF. Our results suggest that medial frontal TMS using the double-cone coil can affect ACC activity. However, a number of more distal cortical areas were also affected in these experiments. These additional changes may reflect either 'downstream' effects of altered cingulate cortex activity or direct effects of the coil.
Principles of therapeutic use of transcranial and epidural cortical stimulation.	Among the alternatives to drugs in the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders, neuromodulation techniques, including brain stimulation, have been used increasingly this past decade. Cortical targets are especially appealing, because they are easily accessible by noninvasive or invasive methods. Applicable techniques include repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), transcranial electrical stimulation using pulsed or direct current, and epidural cortical stimulation (ECS) with surgically implanted electrodes. In contrast to deep brain stimulation in movement disorders or electroconvulsive therapy in depression, the efficacy of cortical stimulation to treat neurological or psychiatric disorders has not been yet clearly demonstrated. However, encouraging results have been reported in neuropathic pain (for ECS) and depression (for rTMS). In this review, we will consider some principles and mechanisms of action of these methods. First, it must be noted that fibers of intracortical or cortico-subcortical networks are more prone to be activated by the stimulation than cell bodies of local cortical neurons. Hence, the site(s) of action may be distant from the site of stimulation. In addition, various parameters of stimulation (such as stimulation frequency, intensity, or electrode polarity) and the configuration of the induced electrical field greatly influence the nature of the recruited circuits, and therefore, the overall efficacy. Finally, clinical changes may be delayed and prolonged beyond the time of stimulation, complicating programming algorithms in the case of implanted stimulation device. All these features need to be taken into account when considering cortical stimulation as a method of treatment.
The safety of transcranial magnetic stimulation with deep brain stimulation instruments.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been employed in patients with an implanted deep brain stimulation (DBS) device. We investigated the safety of TMS using simulation models with an implanted DBS device.
Consensus: New methodologies for brain stimulation.	We briefly summarized several new stimulation techniques. There are many new methods of human brain stimulation, including modification of already known methods and brand-new methods. In this article, we focused on theta burst stimulation (TBS), repetitive monophasic pulse stimulation, paired- and quadri-pulse stimulation, transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), paired associative stimulation, controllable pulse shape TMS (cTMS), and deep-brain TMS. For every method, we summarized the state of the art and discussed issues that remain to be addressed.
Consensus paper: combining transcranial stimulation with neuroimaging.	In the last decade, combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)-neuroimaging studies have greatly stimulated research in the field of TMS and neuroimaging. Here, we review how TMS can be combined with various neuroimaging techniques to investigate human brain function. When applied during neuroimaging (online approach), TMS can be used to test how focal cortex stimulation acutely modifies the activity and connectivity in the stimulated neuronal circuits. TMS and neuroimaging can also be separated in time (offline approach). A conditioning session of repetitive TMS (rTMS) may be used to induce rapid reorganization in functional brain networks. The temporospatial patterns of TMS-induced reorganization can be subsequently mapped by using neuroimaging methods. Alternatively, neuroimaging may be performed first to localize brain areas that are involved in a given task. The temporospatial information obtained by neuroimaging can be used to define the optimal site and time point of stimulation in a subsequent experiment in which TMS is used to probe the functional contribution of the stimulated area to a specific task. In this review, we first address some general methodologic issues that need to be taken into account when using TMS in the context of neuroimaging. We then discuss the use of specific brain mapping techniques in conjunction with TMS. We emphasize that the various neuroimaging techniques offer complementary information and have different methodologic strengths and weaknesses.
Localizing Broca's area for transcranial magnetic stimulation: Comparison of surface distance measurements and stereotaxic positioning.	Precise placement of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) coils over target regions is crucial for correct interpretation of TMS effects. Modern frameless stereotaxic systems yield high accuracy, but require extensive equipment and cannot be used in every setting, for example, during functional imaging sessions.
Deep transcranial magnetic stimulation over the prefrontal cortex: evaluation of antidepressant and cognitive effects in depressive patients.	Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective alternative for pharmacotherapy in treatment-resistant depressive patients, but the side effects limit its use. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been proposed as a refined alternative, but most studies do not indicate that TMS is as effective as ECT for severe depression.
The role of inhibition from the left dorsal premotor cortex in right-sided focal hand dystonia.	The left dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) plays an important role in movement selection and is abnormally activated in imaging studies in patients with right-sided focal hand dystonia (FHD).
Exploring the optimal site for the localization of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in brain stimulation experiments.	Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is a common target for repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) experiments and therapeutic protocols.
flexTMS--a novel repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation device with freely programmable stimulus currents.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is able to noninvasively excite neuronal populations due to brief magnetic field pulses. The efficiency and the characteristics of stimulation pulse shapes influence the physiological effect of TMS. However, commercial devices allow only a minimum of control of different pulse shapes. Basically, just sinusoidal and monophasic pulse shapes with fixed pulse widths are available. Only few research groups work on TMS devices with controllable pulse parameters such as pulse shape or pulse width. We describe a novel TMS device with a full-bridge circuit topology incorporating four insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) modules and one energy storage capacitor to generate arbitrary waveforms. This flexible TMS (flexTMS ) device can generate magnetic pulses which can be adjusted with respect to pulse width, polarity, and intensity. Furthermore, the equipment allows us to set paired pulses with a variable interstimulus interval (ISI) from 0 to 20 ms with a step size of 10  μs. All user-defined pulses can be applied continually with repetition rates up to 30 pulses per second (pps) or, respectively, up to 100 pps in theta burst mode. Offering this variety of flexibility, flexTMS will allow the enhancement of existing TMS paradigms and novel research applications.
Cognitive correlates of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in treatment-resistant depression--a pilot study.	The aim of the current study was to investigate the cognitive correlates of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in 10 treatment-resistant depression patients.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation and motor cortex stimulation in neuropathic pain]	Non-invasive and invasive cortical stimulation allows the modulation of therapy-refractory neuropathic pain. High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the contralateral motor cortex yields therapeutic effects at short-term and predicts the benefits of epidural motor cortex stimulation (MCS). The present article summarizes the findings on application, mechanisms and therapeutic effects of cortical stimulation in neuropathic pain.
Cumulative effect of 5 daily sessions of θ burst stimulation on corticospinal excitability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Excitotoxicity plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the preferential motor neuron death observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) by transcranial magnetic stimulation has an inhibitory effect on corticospinal excitability (CSE). We characterized the neurophysiological changes induced by cTBS in ALS.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation--may be useful as a preoperative screen of motor tract function.	Transcranial motor stimulation with noninvasive cortical surface stimulation, using a high-intensity magnetic field referred to as transcranial magnetic stimulation generally, is considered a nonpainful technique. In contrast, transcranial electric stimulation of the motor tracts typically cannot be done in unanesthesized patients. Intraoperative monitoring of motor tract function with transcranial electric stimulation is considered a standard practice in many institutions for patients during surgical procedures in which there is potential risk of motor tract impairment so that the risk of paraplegia or paraparesis can be reduced. Because transcranial electric stimulation cannot be typically done in the outpatient setting, transcranial magnetic stimulation may be able to provide a well-tolerated method for evaluation of the corticospinal motor tracts before surgery.
Differentiation of motor cortical representation of hand muscles by navigated mapping of optimal TMS current directions in healthy subjects.	The precision of navigated transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to map the human primary motor cortex may be effected by the direction of TMS-induced current in the brain as determined by the orientation of the stimulation coil. In this study, the authors investigated the effect of current directionality on motor output mapping using navigated brain stimulation. The goal of this study was to determine the optimal coil orientation (and, thus, induced brain current) to activate hand musculature representations relative to each subject's unique neuroanatomical landmarks. The authors studied motor output maps for the first dorsal interosseous, abductor pollicis brevis, and abductor digiti minimi muscles in 10 normal volunteers. Monopolar current pulses were delivered through a figure-of-eight-shaped TMS coil, and motor evoked potentials were recorded using electromyography. At each targeted brain region, the authors systematically rotated the TMS coil to determine the direction of induced current in the brain for induction of the largest motor evoked potentials. These optimal current directions were expressed as an angle relative to each subject's central sulcus. Consistency of the optimal current direction was assessed by repeating the entire mapping procedure on two different occasions across subjects. The authors demonstrate that systematic optimization of current direction as guided by MRI-based neuronavigation improves the resolution of cortical output motor mapping with TMS.
Responses of finger flexor and extensor muscles to transcranial magnetic stimulation during isometric force production tasks.	In this study we investigated neural mechanisms of finger force control.
Safety and characterization of a novel multi-channel TMS stimulator.	Currently available TMS stimulators have a single channel operating a single coil.
