Comparison of outcome when hypoplastic left heart syndrome and transposition of the great arteries are diagnosed prenatally versus when diagnosis of these two conditions is made only postnatally.	We sought to determine the impact of prenatal diagnosis on the perioperative outcome of newborns with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and transposition of the great arteries (TGA). All neonates with HLHS or TGA encountered at Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, from January 1988 to May 1996 were identified and outcomes documented. Birth characteristics, preoperative, operative, and postoperative variables of term newborns with a prenatal diagnosis of HLHS or TGA who underwent a Norwood operation (n = 27) or arterial switch operation (n = 14), respectively, were compared with newborns with a postnatal diagnosis of HLHS (n = 47) or TGA (n = 28) who had undergone surgery. Of 217 neonates with HLHS and 422 with TGA, 39 and 16, respectively, had a prenatal diagnosis. The preoperative mortality among neonates aggressively managed did not differ between the prenatal and postnatal diagnosis groups for either HLHS or TGA (p >0.05). Neonates with a prenatal diagnosis who underwent surgery had objective indicators of lower severity of illness preoperatively, including a higher lowest recorded pH (p = 0.03), lower maximum blood urea nitrogen (p = 0.002), and creatinine (p = 0.03) among newborns with HLHS, and a tendency toward higher minimum of partial pressure of arterial oxygen in the TGA group (p = 0.06). Prenatal diagnosis was not associated with an improved postoperative course or operative mortality (p <0.05) within a diagnostic group. Thus, a prenatal diagnosis improves the preoperative condition of neonates with HLHS and TGA, but may not significantly improve preoperative mortality or early postoperative outcome among neonates managed at a tertiary care center.
Isolated anomalous origin of the right pulmonary artery from the ascending aorta (so-called "hemitruncus"): diagnosis and complex management in a newborn.	We report a case of an anomalous origin of the right pulmonary artery (RPA) from the ascending aorta diagnosed at echocardiography at 13 days of age. The diagnostic clue was relieved in the suprasternal and parasternal high short-axis views, showing aorto-RPA continuity with a systolic flow in the left pulmonary artery and a systo-diastolic flow in the RPA. At 34 days of age the infant was submitted to surgery during which a direct end-to-lateral anastomosis without conduit interposition was performed. During the short-term follow-up the patient developed RPA stenosis at the anastomosis site and underwent percutaneous stent implantation.
Long-term outcome of surgically treated patients with corrected transposition of the great arteries.	The purpose of the study was to examine long-term outcome after traditional surgical treatment of corrected transposition of the great arteries to provide a basis for comparison with new procedures, such as the double-switch or Senning-Rastelli procedures.
Long-term survival in aged patients with corrected transposition of the great arteries.	Corrected transposition of the great arteries is a rare condition, and few patients with this abnormality survive past 50 years of age because of associated congenital defects or the subsequent development of atrioventricular valvular insufficiency or heart block or both. We describe four men with uncomplicated C-TGA. Our patients are of interest for the following reasons: (a) their condition is very rare; (b) the diagnosis of C-TGA traditionally has been verified through invasive cardiac catheterization procedures; however, in our latest two patients, recently developed noninvasive diagnostic techniques played the decisive role in the diagnosis of C-TGA; (c) in these modalities, they presented as a "natural experimental model" that the right ventricle submitted to a high systemic pressure load is capable of increasing muscle mass over long-term adaptation. Our four patients illustrate that patients with C-TGA, even with the associated cardiac anomalies, may live a normal life span with proper management.
MRI of pulmonary arteries in follow-up after arterial-switch-operation (ASO) for transposition of great arteries (d-TGA)]	To determine the value of MRI in postoperative evaluation of patients with arterial-switch-operation (ASO) for d-TGA.
Assessment with magnetic resonance tomography of anatomy and ventricular function after Mustard correction of transposition of the great arteries]	In order to evaluate postoperative sequelae and ventricular function after Mustard-operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries (TGA), 30 patients were assessed by magnetic resonance imaging in EKG-triggered spin-echo (SE) and gradient-echo (GE) technique. Twenty-three patients, aged 4.7 to 15.8 years, had transposition of the great arteries with intact ventricular septum with or without left-ventricular outflow tract obstruction (TGA+IVS +/- SPS). Seven patients aged 9.5 to 21.7 years had transposition of the great arteries with ventricular septal defect (TGA+VSD). Five patients showed a residual baffle leak, one had a pulmonary venous obstruction, five an obstruction at the caval veins, 13 a left-ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and 14 a tricuspid regurgitation. Right-ventricular enddiastolic volume in patients with TGA+VSD (77.0 +/- 25.5 ml/m2) was significantly higher than in patients with TGA+IVS +/- SPS (61.2 +/- 12.0 ml/m2). In TGA+VSD right-ventricular ejection fraction (47.6 +/- 13.0%) was significantly lower than in patients with TGA+IVS +/- SPS (56.7 +/- 10.7%). The ratio of muscle masses of right to left ventricle was 1.8:1 in patients with TGA+IVS +/- SPS and 2.5:1 in patients with TGA+VSD. In conclusion, after Mustard-operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries (TGA) magnetic resonance imaging provides a comprehensive and noninvasive assessment of postoperative sequelae, residuae, and ventricular function and will, therefore, become the method of choice for postoperative evaluation.
Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn with transposition of the great arteries.	Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) in patients with transposition of the great arteries (TGA) is reported to be a high-risk and often therapy-resistant condition, associated with a high mortality. However, data on its incidence and prognosis are scarce and originate mostly from the era before introduction of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) therapy for PPHN.
Double-outlet right ventricle with left malposition of the great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection.	The patient was diagnosed with double-outlet right ventricle with left malposition of the great arteries, total anomalous pulmonary venous connection, and pulmonary stenosis at 2 months of age. Because the progression of pulmonary venous obstruction was suspected at 2 years of age, the patient was catheterized and underwent a definitive repair. The patient had a right aortic arch and left juxtaposition of the atrial appendages; the intraventricular anatomy exhibits malalignment between the conal septum and the muscular intraventricular septum, and the conal septum is well developed and dextroposed, resulting in pulmonary obstruction and multiple ventricular septal defects (VSDs). Because a supracardiac type (Darling's type Ib) of total anomalous pulmonary venous connection was also combined with such an anomaly, total correction consisted of an anastomosis of the left atrium and the common pulmonary vein, creation of an intraventricular tunnel, direct closures of muscular VSDs, pulmonary valvotomy, and infundibular resection. To our knowledge, this is the first description of the successful surgical correction of this type of anomaly in one stage.
Surgical relevance of some aspects of heart's embriology]	We consider some aspects of cardiac embriology which explain the formation of pericardial cysts, anomalies of venae cavae, types of atrial septal defect (ostium primum, secundum, foramen ovale), anomalies in septal ventricular development by absence of structures to perform the septum (atrio-ventricularis communis, truncus arteriosus), lack of alineation (Taussig-Bing's complex, transposition of the great vessels, Eisenmenger's complex, Fallot's tetralogy) or interruption in their development (isolated ventricular septal defect). Finally the evolution of aortic arcs, ductus, aorta's istmus and anomalies in coronary arteries, are also considered.
Impact of prenatal diagnosis on neurocognitive outcomes in children with transposition of the great arteries.	To assess the effect of prenatal diagnosis of congenital heart disease on neurocognitive outcomes in children with d-transposition of the great arteries (TGA) after surgical correction.
Distensibility and diameter of ascending aorta assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging in adults with tetralogy of fallot or complete transposition.	Structural abnormalities of the medial aorta have been described for conotruncal defects (e.g., tetralogy of Fallot [TOF] and complete transposition of the great arteries (dextrotransposition [d]-TGA). In TOF, progressive aortic dilation is a frequent finding. In patients with d-TGA with an atrial switch, this problem is less often described. The aim of the present study was to compare the extent of dilative aortopathy and aortic distensibility in adults with an atrial switch procedure (n = 39) to that in adults with repaired TOF (n = 39) and controls (n = 39), using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. The groups were matched for age and gender. Diameters of the aorta indexed to the body surface area were significantly increased in the patients with d-TGA and TOF compared to that of the controls at the aortic sinus up to the level of the right pulmonary artery. On multivariate testing, the diagnosis of a conotruncal defect (β = 0.260; p = 0.003) and aortic regurgitant fraction (β = 0.405; p <0.001) were independent predictors of an increased aortic sinus diameter. Ascending aorta distensibility was significantly reduced in those with d-TGA and TOF compared to controls: 3.6 (interquartile range 1.5 to 4.4) versus 2.8 (interquartile range 2.0 to 3.7) versus 5.5 (interquartile range 4.8 to 6.9) ×10(-3) mm Hg(-1) (p <0.001). The independent predictors of ascending aorta distensibility were the diagnosis of a conotruncal defect (p <0.001) and age (p = 0.028). In conclusion, intrinsic aortopathy, manifested as increased ascending aortic diameters and reduced ascending aortic distensibility, is not only evident in adults with TOF, but also in adults with d-TGA and an atrial switch procedure. Long-term follow-up is needed to monitor the aortic size in both patient groups.
Corrected transposition of the great arteries with previously unreported cardiac anomalies.	The corrected transposition of the great arteries is a rare congenital cardiac anomaly characterised by atrio-ventricular and ventriculo-arterial discordance and is related to the largest incidence of cardiological complications. We report on a 40-year-old woman with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries, situs inversus, atrial septal defect, pulmonary stenosis, right arcus aorta and coronary artery anomalies.
Primary retrieval of a shocked neonate with duct-dependent circulation to tertiary care by air ambulance.	In the UK the incidence of congenital heart disease is approximately 7 per 1000 live births. The case of a neonate with shock due to an undiagnosed heart defect who was resuscitated in a rural GP surgery and transferred directly to a paediatric centre with specialist tertiary services is described. This case emphasises the importance of the recognition of the sick infant and demonstrates what can be achieved within the current framework for delivery of care. Helicopter emergency medical teams have training in many advanced practical skills, diagnostic skills and clinical experience, which facilitate transfer of the patient to a place of definitive treatment, reducing morbidity and mortality.
Cardiac emergencies.	The diagnosis and management of pediatric cardiac emergencies can be challenging and complicated. Early presentations are usually the result of ductal-dependent lesions and appear with cyanosis and shock. Later presentations are the result of volume overload or pump failure and present with signs of congestive heart failure. Acquired diseases also present as congestive heart failure or arrhythmias. 
European Society of Cardiology guidelines for the management of complex grown-up congenital heart disease]	The number of patients with Grown-Up Congenital Heart disease (GUCH) consulting adult cardiologists is steadily increasing. These patients have either a non-diagnosed congenital heart disease revealed at adulthood, or a diagnosed congenital heart disease for which one or multiple interventions have possibly been performed during childhood. In this article, we summarize the recommendations of the European Society of Cardiology of 2010 for complex congenital heart disease.
Rapid, two-stage arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries and intact ventricular septum beyond the neonatal period.	Optimal management of dextrotransposition of the great arteries with intact ventricular septum is currently an arterial switch procedure performed in the first 2 weeks of life. However, a subgroup of patients presents for surgery beyond this time for reasons of sickness, size, or late referral. Experience with 11 such patients (mean age at first-stage procedure, 4.5 months) has revealed that the left ventricle can be prepared by a surprisingly short interval period (median, 9 days) between a first-stage preparatory operation (pulmonary artery band with or without a shunt) and a subsequent second-stage arterial switch procedure. Serial two-dimensional echocardiography showed that left ventricular mass increased by a mean of 85% during this short interval. Mean left ventricular-right ventricular-pressure ratio as measured by cardiac catheterization increased from 0.5 +/- 0.08 a median of 7 days before the first stage to 1.04 +/- 0.29 a median of 7 days after the first stage. One patient underwent a Senning procedure because of an intramural left coronary artery. The other 10 patients underwent an arterial switch, with no early deaths. Median hospitalization after the arterial switch was 8 days. There has been one late death at 5 months. No patient has been detected to have abnormal ventricular function, although trivial to mild aortic regurgitation has been commonly observed with color flow mapping. These results have encouraged us to offer a two-stage arterial switch procedure to appropriate infants with an interval period of approximately 1 week. Both stages can be performed at one hospitalization, with important psychosocial, logistic, and financial advantages.
The vectorcardiogram in 4 children undergoing the arterial switch repair.	Four children with complete transposition (concordant atrioventricular and discordant ventriculo-arterial connections), aged 1.2 to 16.4 years, underwent a delayed repair by the arterial switch procedure from March 1985 to October 1986. Three children had undergone previous atrial diversion repairs in early childhood. Two of these children had developed right ventricular dysfunction with tricuspid incompetence as well as having recurrent and symptomatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. They underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk 0.7 and 1 year prior to the final repair. The third child had dynamic obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract and prior banding was not performed. A fourth child had right ventricular dysfunction on initial assessment in early infancy and then had banding of the pulmonary trunk. Two patients survived the arterial switch operation. Vectorcardiograms were performed on these 4 children before arterial switch repair. The left maximal spatial voltage did not correlate with elevated left to right ventricular pressure ratio at cardiac catheterization before arterial switch repair nor did it relate to survival after operation. The horizontal loop was clockwise in all patients preoperatively. The vectorcardiogram in these children was not a useful indicator that the left ventricle was suitably prepared for the arterial switch repair.
Echocardiography as an imaging procedure in pediatrics]	Since the introduction of echocardiography into paediatrics by Lundström at the end of the 1960's, this noninvasive technique has come a long way. The original m-mode technique was followed by sector-echocardiography, which permits two-dimensional visualization of the heart. By this means cardiac and great vessel anatomy can be studied in real time. Even complex congenital heart defects can be analyzed and, in contrast to angiocardiography, the atrioventricular valves are well visualized. The addition of doppler-echocardiography enables one to examine direction and velocity of blood flow, which helps to reveal shunts within the heart and between the great vessels as to detect valvular stenosis and insufficiency. The principal advantage of echocardiography lies in this ability to rapidly diagnose congenital and acquired heart disease without harm to the patient. In addition, size and dynamics of the cardiac chambers and the great vessels including valves can be adequately studied.
Echocardiographic identification of aorta and main pulmonary artery in complete transposition.	No completely reliable echocardiographic technique has been described for the separate identification of the aorta and main pulmonary artery in complete transposition of the great arteries. A mechanical wide-angle (60 degrees) sector scanner has been applied to this problem in 17 infants and young children, including 8 newborns before angiocardiography. In all patients a longitudinal scan (saggital section) identified the main pulmonary artery by its directly posterior course immediately beyond the pulmonary valve, and the aorta by its retrosternal course upwards before turning posteriorly above the main pulmonary artery. In addition, a high transverse scan showed the precise spatial relation of the great arteries, and, in 11 of the 17, tilting the scanning plane upwards showed branching of the main pulmonary artery. In 8 infants examined with M-mode echocardiography, an upward sweep from the pulmonary valve showed abrupt termination of the echo from the posterior wall coinciding with the posterior arching of the main pulmonary artery.
Preoperative diagnosis and management of infants with critical congenital heart disease.	Operative repair with an associated low morbidity and mortality is available now for most infants with congenital cardiac defects. Precise preoperative diagnosis is an essential part of continuing attempts to lower the operative risk for these patients. In this review we cover major areas of concern in regard to preoperative diagnosis and management. Long-term follow-up studies with clinical, hemodynamic, electrophysiological, and exercise data are required to assess current diagnostic and therapeutic practices.
Surgical experience with anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries without subpulmonary conus.	A three-year-old boy was operated on with the diagnosis of anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries (S,D,L), ventricular septal defect, and mitral regurgitation. During the operation, it was found that the subpulmonary conus was absent. Ventricular septal defect was patch-closed, and the mitral valve was repaired. The patient was well after the surgery. This is the first case report to our knowledge of the successful surgical repair in anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries without subpulmonary conus. Anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries does not always have bilateral conus as once proposed, and the importance of the differentiation from the corrected transposition of the great arteries is emphasized.
Anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries--case reports and a review.	Anatomically corrected malposition of the great arteries (ACM) is an extremely uncommon cardiac disease in which the great arteries arise from their appropriate ventricles despite abnormal spatial interrelations. Two patients with this malformation underwent successful surgical intervention for their associated anomalies. One was of situs solitus, d-loop and l-malposition and the other of situs inversus, l-loop and d-malposition of the great arteries. Fifty-three cases with accurate anatomical description were collected from the literature, and anatomical characteristics and associated anomalies were investigated. From the standpoint of anatomy and hemodynamics, we considered that ACM should be classified into atrioventricular concordant ACM, atrioventricular discordant ACM and ACM with situs ambiguus. Heart position and conus were variable. Dextrocardia and mesocardia were frequent. Bilateral conus was characteristic in concordant ACM, and subpulmonary conus was prominent in discordant ACM. The hypoplasia of the right heart and juxtaposition of the atrial appendages were in high incidence in cases of ACM. Surgical intervention was also discussed.
Congenital absence of the pulmonary valve leaflets associated with complete transposition of the great arteries.	We describe the clinical and surgical findings of a patient with absence of the pulmonary valve leaflets and complete transposition of the great arteries. The main clinical features were a loud, single second heart sound, a loud pansystolic murmur over the entire precordial area, but no diastolic murmurs were heard. The electrocardiogram suggested right ventricular hypertrophy and right bundle branch block. The roentgenographic study showed cardiomegaly with dilatation of both branches of the pulmonary artery. Cardiac catheterization and angiocardiography showed systemic arterial desaturation, discordant ventriculo-arterial connections and absence of the pulmonary valve leaflets. The patient underwent surgical correction by the Rastelli technique with a favorable clinical course.
Hypoplastic and fibrotic sinus node associated with intractable tachycardia in a neonate.	A case of fetal and neonatal persistent atrial tachycardia is described in a child with complete transposition of the great arteries. At autopsy, serial sections of the conducting tissue showed that the sinus node was hypoplastic and markedly fibrotic. The sinus node consisted of a small area of cells clustered around the nodal artery. Although the underlying mechanism of neonatal persistent tachycardia is unclear, it is possible that the hypoplasia and fibrosis of the sinus node was the substrate in the present case. This mechanism should be considered in any newborn infant in whom sinus rhythm cannot be established.
Lung biopsy with frozen section as a diagnostic aid in patients with congenital heart defects.	In eight patients with congenital heart defects and equivocal preoperative hemodynamic data, lung biopsy with frozen section was performed and quantitative morphometric analysis carried out to help select a palliative or corrective surgical procedure. During catheterization it had been possible in only six of the eight patients to enter the pulmonary artery and obtain pressure measurements; four patients had moderate to severe elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance whereas the other two had only mild elevation of pulmonary arterial pressure, but they were being considered for a Fontan procedure. The lung biopsy tissue was taken inflated and fixed inflated in hot glutaraldehyde. From cryostat sections arterial concentration was assessed relative to alveolar concentration, and the degree of arterial muscularity was assessed by wall thickness and extension of muscle; the more advanced Health-Edwards arterial changes were also evaluated. On the basis of the morphologic assessment, six of the eight patients underwent corrective surgery and two underwent a palliative procedure. Postoperative hemodynamic data available in four of the patients who underwent corrective surgery revealed either a significant reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance or return to a normal level of pulmonary arterial pressure, whereas no change has occurred in the one patient studied who underwent a palliative procedure. Assessment of pulmonary arterial development and structure on lung biopsy with frozen section proved helpful in deciding between a palliative and corrective surgical procedure.
Right pulmonary artery arising from ascending aorta: report of a successfully treated case.	A nine-day-old neonate presented with signs of congestive heart failure during the first week of life. The echocardiogram showed an early bifurcating great vessel originating from the left ventricle. In addition, there was another vessel originating from the right ventricle directly connected to the descending aorta without early branching into the bilateral pulmonary arteries. A muscular ventricular septal defect (VSD) was also found. Cardiac catheterization and angiography showed that: 1) the anomalous origin of the right pulmonary artery arose from the ascending aorta; 2) a large patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) connected the main pulmonary artery and the descending aorta; and 3) a muscular VSD existed. Magnetic resonance imaging also demonstrated the above findings. Reimplantation of the anomalous right pulmonary artery to the main pulmonary artery and ligation of the PDA were done. To the best of our knowledge, this very unusual case is the first such neonatal case with successful surgical repair in Taiwan.
Anatomical correction in transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle. Our initial experience]	Anatomical correction of transposition of great arteries and double outlet right ventricle with subpulmonary ventricular septal defect is a surgical approach that has not been generally adopted in our clinical environment. Our aim with this paper is reporting on our initial experience with this technique.
Transposition of the great arteries with posterior aorta]	Two cases of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) with posterior aorta are reported. The first was submitted to the Senning procedure with good outcome; the other had the diagnosis of double outlet right ventricle with severe pulmonary stenosis, and a Blalock-Taussig shunt was accomplished for hypoxic crisis. The patient died 11 days after surgery and the necropsy demonstrated TGA with posterior aorta. In both cases there was a sub-pulmonary infundibulum. The presence of ventricular septal defects allowed aortic-mitral fibrous continuity, a finding previously described in anatomical reports. Clinical and angiographic aspects are discussed.
5-year results of arterial correction in transposition of great vessels]	A prospective study was performed on in-hospital patients between June 1985 and July 1992 to assess the 5 year results of surgical detransposition of the great arteries. Clinical examination, electrocardiography, echocardiography, right and left heart catheterisation with selective coronary angiography, isotopic right and left ventricular ejection fractions at rest and with infusion of dobutamine and SestaMibi myocardial perfusion scintigraphy at rest and with dipyridamole, were performed during the 5th year after surgery. Twenty-six children underwent this protocol: eight others did not come for examination because they had moved from the region, one of whom had suffered regressive postoperative myocardial infarction. All patients were asymptomatic and had only minor electrocardiographic changes. Stenosis of the pulmonary tract was observed in 38.5% but only one case of stenosis at the origin of the right pulmonary artery required percutaneous angioplasty, which was successful. Pulmonary regurgitation was a common echocardiographic finding (65.4% of cases) but rarely severe (1/26: 3.9%). Aortic regurgitation was also observed commonly (53.8%), nearly always mild, grade I (13/14 cases). No significant stenosis of the aortic anastomosis was observed. The right and left ventricular ejection fractions were normal at rest except in one case and all values improved with dobutamine. Myocardial scintigraphy did not show any perfusion defect and there was no stenosis or occlusion of the coronary arteries at coronary angiography. The authors conclude that the results of arterial detransposition at 5 years are satisfactory in this series, with no cases of major obstructive lesions, major ventriculo-arterial regurgitation, ventricular dysfunction or coronary lesions. However, longer term trials with larger numbers of patients are required to determine the real incidence of coronary lesions and the long-term outcome of the pulmonary valve in the systemic position.
Cyanotic heart lesions with increased pulmonary blood flow.	This article examines common cyanotic congenital heart lesions that result in an increase in pulmonary blood flow. These lesions include transposition of the great arteries, truncus arteriosus, total anomalous pulmonary venous connection, tricuspid atresia, and single ventricle. The complications caused by increased pulmonary blood flow are examined. The hemodynamics, presentation, diagnosis, medical management, and surgical treatment of each lesion are discussed. Support and teaching needs of the parents are also addressed.
