Immunolocalization of Zic2 expression in the developing mouse forebrain.	The Zic genes are a family of zinc finger transcription factors defined by their homology with the Drosophila gene, odd-paired (opa). Zic2 has a critical role in forebrain development, as is evidenced by the fact that, in both mice and humans, diminished expression results in the severe forebrain malformation known as holoprosencephaly. Published information indicates that Zic2 expression is most prominent in the dorsal neural tube/spinal cord and in the hindbrain; however, there is no published description of the pattern of expression of Zic2 in the developing forebrain where the main Zic2 associated phenotype occurs. Using a Zic2-specific antiserum, we present new information about the expression of Zic2 in the developing mouse forebrain. In addition, we show that in sonic hedgehog (Shh) null mice, the expression of Zic2 is expanded ventrally in some structures while absent in others, suggesting that Shh has a role in regulating the expression of Zic2.
Upregulated hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha and -2alpha pathway in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.	The pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) remains obscure, although angiogenesis appears to play an important role. We recently confirmed an overexpression of two angiogenic factors, namely vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF), by the lining and stromal cells of the synovium in both conditions. Because hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and HIF-2alpha are essential in regulating transcription of the VEGF gene, active participation of HIF-alpha molecules in the pathogenesis of these arthritides is anticipated. We investigated the immunohistochemical expression of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha in the synovium of 22 patients with RA, 34 patients with OA and 22 'normal' nonarthritic individuals, in relation to VEGF, VEGF/KDR (kinase insert domain protein receptor) vascular activation, PD-ECGF and bcl-2. A significant cytoplasmic and nuclear overexpression of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha was noted in the synovial lining and stromal cells of both diseases relative to normal. Overexpression of HIF-alphas was related to high microvessel density, high PD-ECGF expression and high VEGF/KDR receptor activation, suggesting HIF-alpha-dependent synovial angiogenesis in OA. By contrast, the activation of the angiogenic VEGF/KDR pathway was persistently increased in RA, as indeed was microvessel density and the expression of PD-ECGF, irrespective of the extent of HIF-alpha expression, indicating a cytokine-dependent angiogenesis. In all cases, the VEGF/KDR vascular activation was significantly lower in OA than in RA, suggesting a relative failure of the HIF-alpha pathway to effectively produce a viable vasculature for OA, which is consistent with the degenerative nature of the disease. The activation of the HIF-alpha pathway occurs in both RA and OA, although for unrelated reasons.
Mutant conformation of p53. Precise epitope mapping using a filamentous phage epitope library.	Many naturally occurring point mutations in the p53 gene lead to a proportion of the encoded protein molecules adopting a distinct, "mutant" conformation characterized by exposure of a normally cryptic epitope recognized by the monoclonal antibody PAb240. Here the PAb240 epitope is defined using a filamentous phage epitope library. The hexapeptides displayed by the PAb240-binding phage isolated from the library were all highly related and allowed both direct localization of the epitope and prediction of a specific interaction between PAb240 and Xenopus TFIIIA. This study demonstrates for the first time the power of phage epitope libraries in the precise definition of previously unmapped epitopes. Identification of the PAb240 epitope precisely defines a region of the p53 molecule structurally altered by the mutation-induced conformational shift.
NF-kappa B synergizes with NF-AT and NF-IL6 in activation of the IL-4 gene in T cells.	IL-4 plays a pivotal role in the development of the Th2 cell mediated humoral immune response and causes IgE-dependent allergic inflammatory diseases. Expression of IL-4 in differentiated Th2 cells is regulated by transcription factors such as NF-AT, AP-1 and NF-IL6. Recently, increasing evidence indicates that the pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-kappa B may also participate inIL-4 expression. In this study, we show that the IL-4 promoter is synergistically activated by NF-kappa B, NF-AT and NF-IL6 at the NF-kappa B/NF-AT/NF-IL6 composite sites. In addition, we performed the chromatin immunoprecipitation technique to determine the functional relevance of NF-kappa B in the activation of the IL-4 gene in vivo. We demonstrate that NF-kappa B binds to the IL-4 promoter in vivo upon T cell activation. Inhibition of NF-kappa B nuclear translocation in living cells blocked binding of NF-kappa B to the IL-4 promoter. The data provide first evidence that NF-kappa B is directly involved in IL-4 transcription.
Rapid diagnosis and characterization of acute promyelocytic leukaemia in routine laboratory practice.	The rapid diagnosis of the t(15;17)(q22;q21) promyelocytic leukaemia is important in the early introduction of targeted therapy with all-trans retinoic acid plus chemotherapy. It has been noted that these are usually myeloperoxidase (MPO)-positive and HLA-DR-negative with homogenous expression of CD33 and heterogeneous expression of CD13. We evaluated the use of immunophenotyping, morphology and cytogenetics in our own practice. Cascade testing, using cytoplasmic MPO expression in a high percentage of blast cells in bone marrow as the primary screen and PML (promyelocytic leukaemia protein) expression as the secondary confirmatory test, allowed rapid identification of the cases with t(15;17). This approach allows early instigation of appropriate therapy.
The golli-myelin basic protein negatively regulates signal transduction in T lymphocytes.	Protein kinase C (PKC) plays a critical role in signal transduction controlling T lymphocyte activation. Both positive and negative regulation of signal transduction is needed for proper control of T lymphocyte activation. We have found that a golli product of the myelin basic protein (MBP) gene can serve as a negative regulator of signaling pathways in the T lymphocyte, particularly the PKC pathway. Increased expression of golli BG21 in Jurkat T cells strongly inhibits anti-CD3-induced IL-2-luciferase activity, an indicator of T lymphocyte activation. Golli BG21 can be phosphorylated by PKC in vitro and its phosphorylation increases in PMA-activated Jurkat cells. BG21 inhibits the PMA-induced increase in AP-1 or NF-kappaB activation, consistent with golli acting in a PKC-mediated cellular event. Golli BG21 inhibition of the PKC pathway is not due to a direct action on PKC activation but in the cascade following PKC activation, since BG21 neither reduces PKC enzyme activity nor blocks the membrane association of PKCtheta brought on by T lymphocyte activation. The inhibitory function of BG21 is independent of its phosphorylation by PKC because a mutant BG21, in which the PKC sites have been mutated, is as effective as the wild type BG21 in inhibiting the PMA-induced AP-1 activation. Structure-function assays indicate that BG21 inhibitory activity resides in the golli domain rather than in MBP domain of the molecule. These results reveal a novel role for MBP gene products in T lymphocytes within the immune system.
Transcriptome analysis of hagfish leukocytes: a framework for understanding the immune system of jawless fishes.	Jawless fishes occupy a critical phylogenetic position in understanding the origin of the adaptive immune system. Here, we performed large-scale expressed sequence tag analysis of leukocytes isolated from the inshore hagfish Eptatretus burgeri. Although we found many immunity-related genes such as those involved in lymphocyte or hematopoietic cell signaling and development as well as cytokine and cytokine receptor genes, MHC molecules or antigen receptors were not identified. We characterized two hagfish cDNAs that closely resembled mammalian proteins with essential roles in adaptive immunity, one encoding a GATA3-like molecule and another encoding a Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk)-like molecule. The GATA3-like gene of hagfish was equidistant from GATA3 and GATA2 in jawed vertebrates. Similarly, the hagfish Btk-like molecule was not Btk itself, but qualified as a pre-duplicated form of Btk and Bmx in jawed vertebrates. In total, our work provides circumstantial evidence that adaptive immunity is unique to jawed vertebrates.
Decrease of Bcl-xL and augmentation of thymocyte apoptosis in GILZ overexpressing transgenic mice.	Glucocorticoids promote thymocyte apoptosis and modulate transcription of numerous genes. GILZ (glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper), being one of them, is strongly up-regulated in the thymus. To elucidate its function we generated transgenic mice overexpressing it specifically in the T-cell lineage and characterized its influence on thymus function. In young adult transgenic mice CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocyte number was significantly decreased and ex vivo thymocyte apoptosis was increased. Apoptotic pathway analysis detected reduced antiapoptotic B-cell leukemia XL (Bcl-xL) expression and increased activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3. Time-course experiments showed that in wild-type (WT) thymocytes GILZ up-regulation was followed by sequential Bcl-xL decreased expression and activation of caspase-8 and of caspase-3. Moreover, GILZ delivered inside WT thymocytes by a fusion protein with the transactivator of transcription (TAT) peptide decreased Bcl-xL and promoted their apoptosis. In aged mice perturbation of thymic subset numbers was amplified over time, as demonstrated by a further decrease in CD4(+)CD8(+) cells and increases in CD4(+)CD8(-), CD4(-)CD8(-), and CD8(+)CD4(-) cell counts. These results support the hypothesis that GILZ participates in the regulation of thymocyte apoptosis by glucocorticoids.
Different isoforms of BSAP regulate expression of AID in normal and chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells.	Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is key to initiating somatic hypermutation (SHM) and class switch recombination (CSR), but its mode of action and regulation remains unclear. Since Pax-5 and Id-2 transcription factors play an opposing role in AID regulation, we have studied the expression of Pax-5, Id-2, and prdm-1 genes in 54 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. In 21 cases, presence of AID is constantly associated with high expression of the complete form of the Pax-5 gene (Pax-5a) and lower expression of the Id-2 and prdm-1 transcripts. In 33 cases, the absence of AID expression and CSR is associated with a reduction of Pax-5a and the appearance of a spliced form with a deletion in exon 8 (Pax-5/Delta-Ex8). Stimulation with CD40L+interleukin 4 (IL-4) induces CSR, the presence of AID transcripts, up-regulation of Pax-5a and down-regulation of Pax-5/Delta-Ex8, and Id-2 and prdm-1 transcripts. Pax-5a and Pax-5/Delta-Ex8 are translated into 2 isoforms of the B-cell-specific activator protein (BSAP) and both are able to bind the AID-promoter region. Overall, these results suggest that Pax-5/Delta-Ex8 could play an important role in the control of its own transcription and indirectly in AID expression and CSR.
Rat CD8+ FOXP3+ T suppressor cells mediate tolerance to allogeneic heart transplants, inducing PIR-B in APC and rendering the graft invulnerable to rejection.	Human CD8+ FOXP3+ T suppressor cells (TS) were previously shown to induce the expression of the inhibitory receptors, Immunoglobulin-like transcript (ILT) 3 and ILT4 on dendritic and endothelial cells, rendering them tolerogenic to allogeneic T cells. We have demonstrated the importance of CD8+ TS in a rat model of heart allo-transplantation. Tolerance was induced in ACI recipients by multiple transfusions of UVB-irradiated blood from Lewis heart donors. CD8+ T cells from tolerant ACI rats expressed FOXP3, transferred tolerance to naive secondary hosts and induced the upregulation of the inhibitory receptor, paired immunoglobulin-like receptor (PIR)-B, an ILT4 orthologue, in Lewis dendritic cells (DC) and heart endothelial cells (EC). When long-term surviving Lewis heart allografts with PIR-B+ EC were retransplanted from a primary to a secondary ACI recipient they did not elicit rejection. This study focuses attention on the need to develop agents that act directly on graft EC in order to achieve tolerance.
The central residues of a T cell receptor sequence motif are key determinants of autoantigen recognition in murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	The autoreactive response in murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is dominated by an oligoclonal expansion of V beta 8(+) CD4(+) T cells. These T cells recognize the immunodominant N-terminal nonapeptide of myelin basic protein (MBP1-9) associated with the MHC class II molecule, I-A(u). Amongst the autoreactive cells, T cells bearing TCR containing the CDR3 beta motif Asp-Ala-Gly-Gly-Gly-Tyr (DAGGGY) play a dominant role in the disease process. Here we have investigated the molecular basis for antigen recognition by a representative TCR (172.10) that contains the DAGGGY motif. The roles of the three glycines in this motif in the corresponding TCR-peptide-MHC interactions have been analyzed using a combination of site-directed mutagenesis and surface plasmon resonance. Our data show that mutation of either of the first two glycines (G97, G98) to alanine results in soluble, recombinant TCR that do not bind to recombinant antigen at detectable levels. Mutation of the third glycine (G99) of the 172.10 TCR results in a substantial decrease in affinity. The importance of the triple glycines for antigen recognition provides an explanation at the molecular level for the recruitment of T cells bearing the DAGGGY motif into the responding repertoire during EAE induction.
Cutting Edge: NF-kappaB-activating kinase-associated protein 1 participates in TLR3/Toll-IL-1 homology domain-containing adapter molecule-1-mediated IFN regulatory factor 3 activation.	TLRs signal the presence of microbial patterns and activate transcription factors. In TLR3 and TLR4, the adapter Toll-IL-1R homology domain-containing adapter molecule (TICAM-1) (also called Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-beta (TRIF)) mediates IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) phosphorylation followed by IFN-beta production. The regulatory subunit TNFR-associated factor family member-associated NF-kappaB activator (TANK) couples with the kinase complex IkappaB kinase-related kinase epsilon/NF-kappaB-activating kinase (NAK) (TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)) that involveTICAM-1-dependent IFN-beta induction. There are several TANK-homologous proteins. We tested whether TICAM-1 binds and coprecipitates with TANK or its family proteins. The results are: 1) the TANK family protein NAK-associated protein 1 (NAP1), but not TANK, coprecipitates withTICAM-1; 2) NAP1 overexpression markedly enhances TBK1-mediated IFN-beta promoter activation; 3) a dominant-negative form, NAP (158-270), suppresses IRF3 activation in response to poly(I:C) or LPS; 4) RNA interference targeting of the NAP1 message results in a failure of poly(I:C)-mediated IRF3 polymerization and IFN-beta production. Thus, NAP1 is the kinase subunit responsible for TLR3/4-mediated IFN-beta induction in the TICAM-1 pathway.
BCL-6 negatively regulates expression of the NF-kappaB1 p105/p50 subunit.	BCL-6 is a transcription repressor frequently deregulated in non-Hodgkin's B cell lymphomas. Its activity is also critical to germinal center development and balanced Th1/Th2 differentiation. Previous studies have suggested that NF-kappaB activity is suppressed in germinal center and lymphoma B cells that express high levels of BCL-6, and yet the reason for this is unknown. We report in this study that BCL-6 can bind to three sequence motifs in the 5' regulatory region of NF-kappaB1 in vitro and in vivo, and repress NF-kappaB1 transcription both in reporter assays and in lymphoma B cell lines. BCL-6(-/-) mice further confirm the biological relevance of BCL-6-dependent regulation of NF-kappaB1 because BCL-6 inactivation caused notable increase in p105/p50 proteins in several cell types. Among these, BCL-6(-/-) macrophage cell lines displayed a hyperproliferation phenotype that can be reversed by NF-kappaB inhibitors, e.g., N-tosyl-l-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone and SN50, a result that is consistent with increased nuclear kappaB-binding activity of p50 homodimer and p50/p65 heterodimer. Our results demonstrate that BCL-6 can negatively regulate NF-kappaB1 expression, thereby inhibiting NF-kappaB-mediated cellular functions.
Protection against melanoma by vaccination with Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and/or vaccinia: an epidemiology-based hypothesis on the nature of a melanoma risk factor and its immunological control.	A multicentre case-control study conducted by the FEBrile Infections and Melanoma (FEBIM) group has demonstrated a reduced risk of melanoma associated with Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and/or vaccinia vaccination in early childhood and/or with infectious diseases later in life. This has led to the recognition of a new risk indicator of melanoma; namely 'not being vaccinated with either with BCG or vaccinia'. On the basis of these findings, we propose a hypothesis of immune surveillance for melanoma induced or enhanced by prior contacts with pathogens unexpectedly cross-reactive to a cellular 'marker of melanoma risk'. The reduced risk of melanoma due to BCG and vaccinia, as well as certain common causes of infectious disease, is shown to be associated with antigenic determinants exhibiting sequence homologies with the HERV-K-MEL-antigen. The latter is a product of a pseudo-gene that is closely associated with the env-gene of the endogenous human retrovirus K (HERV-K). A suppressive immune reaction appears to inhibit the expression of endogenous retroviral genes, such as the HERV-K env-gene, that could otherwise result in malignant transformation years or even decades later. The HERV-K env-protein has homologous amino acid sequences with the human nuclear factor Oxygen Responsive Element Binding Protein (OREBP) that controls the expression of glutathione peroxidase. The formation of this and other redox-enzymes, needed to maintain appropriate levels of the normal intracellular redox potential, seems to be suppressed by the OREBP-homologous protein. The present hypothesis is in accordance with the concept that immune dysregulation due to adverse environmental impacts is a risk factor not only for some autoimmune disorders, as previously described, but also for certain malignancies such as melanoma.
Differential activation of anti-erythrocyte and anti-DNA autoreactive B lymphocytes by the Yaa mutation.	An as-yet-unidentified mutation, Y-linked autoimmune acceleration (Yaa), is responsible for the accelerated development of lupus-like autoimmune syndrome in mice. In view of a possible role for Yaa as a positive regulator of BCR signaling, we have explored whether the expression of the Yaa mutation affects the development and activation of transgenic autoreactive B cells expressing either 4C8 IgM anti-RBC or Sp6 IgM anti-DNA. In this study, we show that the expression of the Yaa mutation induced a lethal form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia in 4C8 transgenic C57BL/6 mice, likely as a result of activation of 4C8 anti-RBC autoreactive B cells early in life. This was further supported, although indirectly, by increased T cell-independent IgM production in spleens of nontransgenic C57BL/6 mice bearing the Yaa mutation. In contrast, Yaa failed to induce activation of Sp6 anti-DNA autoreactive B cells, consistent with a lack of increased IgM anti-DNA production in nontransgenic C57BL/6 Yaa mice. Our results suggest that Yaa can activate autoreactive B cells in a BCR-dependent manner, related to differences in the form and nature of autoantigens.
Early appearance of germinal center-derived memory B cells and plasma cells in blood after primary immunization.	Immunization with a T cell-dependent antigen elicits production of specific memory B cells and antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). The kinetic and developmental relationships between these populations and the phenotypic forms they and their precursors may take remain unclear. Therefore, we examined the early stages of a primary immune response, focusing on the appearance of antigen-specific B cells in blood. Within 1 wk, antigen-specific B cells appear in the blood with either a memory phenotype or as immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 ASCs expressing blimp-1. The memory cells have mutated V(H) genes; respond to the chemokine CXCL13 but not CXCL12, suggesting recirculation to secondary lymphoid organs; uniformly express B220; show limited differentiation potential unless stimulated by antigen; and develop independently of blimp-1 expression. The antigen-specific IgG1 ASCs in blood show affinity maturation paralleling that of bone marrow ASCs, raising the possibility that this compartment is established directly by blood-borne ASCs. We find no evidence for a blimp-1-expressing preplasma memory compartment, suggesting germinal center output is restricted to ASCs and B220(+) memory B cells, and this is sufficient to account for the process of affinity maturation.
Activation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 in bacillary angiomatosis: evidence for a role of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 in bacterial infections.	Bartonella species are the only known bacterial pathogens causing vasculoproliferative disorders in humans (bacillary angiomatosis [BA]). Cellular and bacterial pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the induction of BA are largely unknown.
Small ubiquitin-related modifiers: A novel and independent class of autoantigens in primary biliary cirrhosis.	Serum autoantibodies against components of nuclear dots (anti-NDs), namely PML and Sp100, are specifically detected in 20% to 30% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Although anti-ND antibodies are nonpathogenic, the mechanisms that lead to this unique reactivity are critical to understanding the loss of immune tolerance in PBC. Importantly, Sp100 and PML are both covalently linked to small ubiquitin-related modifiers (SUMOs). Therefore, we investigated whether SUMO proteins are independent autoantigens in PBC and studied 99 PBC sera samples for reactivity against NDs, PML, and Sp100, as well as against SUMO-2 and SUMO-1 recombinant proteins. Autoantibodies against SUMO-2 and SUMO-1 were found in 42% and 15% of anti-ND-positive PBC sera, respectively. Anti-SUMO reactivity was not observed in anti-ND-negative sera. Anti-SUMO-2 autoantibodies were found in 58% of sera containing autoantibodies against both PML and Sp100 and were detected exclusively in sera containing anti-Sp100 autoantibodies. In conclusion, SUMO proteins constitute a novel and independent class of autoantigens in PBC. Furthermore, we believe our data emphasize the post-translational modification of lysine by either lipoylation in the case of AMA or SUMOylation in the case of specific anti-ND autoantibodies as the pivotal site for autoantibody generation in PBC.
Giant cell tumors: inquiry into immunohistochemical expression of CD117 (c-Kit), microphthalmia transcription factor, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, and HAM-56.	Osteoclast-like giant cells (GCs) in giant cell tumors (GCTs) are thought to derive from a monocyte-macrophage lineage. Microphthalmia transcription factor (MITF) is necessary for osteoclast gene expression and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activation; c-Kit plays a role in regulation of MITF.
HIV-1 Tat modulates T-bet expression and induces Th1 type of immune response.	The HIV-1 transactivator Tat performs various viral and cellular functions. Primarily, it induces processive transcription from the HIV-1 LTR promoter. However, Tat secreted from infected cells is known to activate uninfected lymphocytes through receptors. To further delineate the specific target genes, extracellular Tat was expressed on the cell membrane of stimulator cells and co-cultured with human PBMCs. Along with induced CD4(+) T cell proliferation and IFN-gamma secretion, there was strong upregulation of T-bet expression which is majorly implicated in generating T(H)1 type of immune response. To further delineate the effect of extracellular Tat on HIV replication, both p24 analysis and in vivo GFP expression were performed. There was a significant inhibition of HIV-1 replication in human CEM-GFP cell line and hPBMCs. Thus, for the first time we report that apart from its transactivation activity, extracellular Tat acts as a costimulatory molecule that affects viral replication by modulating host immune response through induction of T-bet expression and IFN-gamma secretion.
Nuclear factor-kappaB1 (p50) limits the inflammatory and fibrogenic responses to chronic injury.	In this study we addressed the role of the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB1/p50 subunit in chronic injury of the liver by determining the inflammatory and fibrotic responses of nfkappab1-null mice in an experimental model that mimics chronic liver disease. Mice received repeated hepatic injuries throughout 12 weeks by intraperitoneal injection of the hepatotoxin carbon tetrachloride. In response nfkappab1(-/-) mice developed more severe neutrophilic inflammation and fibrosis compared to nfkappab1(+/+) mice. This phenotype was associated with elevated hepatic expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, which was localized to regions of the liver associated with inflammation and fibrosis. Hepatic stellate cells are important regulators of hepatic inflammatory and fibrogenic events but normally do not express TNF-alpha. Hepatic stellate cells derived from nfkappab1(-/-) mice expressed TNF-alpha promoter activity, mRNA, and protein. By contrast the expression of other NF-kappaB-responsive genes (ICAM1 and interleukin-6) was similar between nfkappab1(-/-) and nfkappab1(+/+) cells. We provide experimental evidence that the inappropriate expression of TNF-alpha by nfkappab1(-/-) cells is because of lack of a p50-dependent histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1)-mediated repression of TNF-alpha gene transcription. Taken together these data indicate that the p50 NF-kappaB subunit plays a critical protective role in the injured liver by limiting the expression of TNF-alpha and its recruitment of inflammatory cells.
Functional promoter polymorphism in the TBX21 gene associated with aspirin-induced asthma.	Asthma is a phenotypically heterogeneous disorder with many etiologic factors and clinical characteristics. T-bet, a Th1-specific transcription factor of T-box family, has been found to control interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) expression in T cells. Mice lacking the T-bet gene (tbx21) demonstrate multiple physiological and inflammatory features reminiscent of human asthma. In order to examine whether polymorphisms in the candidate gene, TBX21, located on chromosome 17q21.32, are related to the risk of human asthma phenotypes, we have searched for genetic variations in the human TBX21 gene and identified 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including five novel SNPs, by direct sequencing in Japanese subjects. Among asthma phenotypes, a promoter -1993T-->C SNP, which is in linkage disequilibrium with a synonymous coding 390A-->G SNP in exon 1, is significantly associated with a risk of aspirin-induced asthma (AIA; P = 0.004, P(c) = 0.016). This association has also been confirmed in additional independent samples of asthma with nasal polyposis (P = 0.008), regardless of aspirin hypersensitivity. Furthermore, our data indicate that the -1993T-->C substitution increases the affinity of a particular nuclear protein to the binding site of TBX21 covering the -1993 position, resulting in increased transcriptional activity of the TBX21 gene. Thus, in addition to the antigen-driven excess Th2 response, increased T-bet (and subsequent IFN-gamma) production in human airways of individuals with the -1993T-->C polymorphism could contribute to the development of certain asthma-related phenotypes, such as AIA.
Transcriptional networks in developing and mature B cells.	The development of B cells from haematopoietic stem cells proceeds along a highly ordered, yet flexible, pathway. At multiple steps along this pathway, cells are instructed by transcription factors on how to further differentiate, and several check-points have been identified. These check-points are initial commitment to lymphocytic progenitors, specification of pre-B cells, entry to the peripheral B-cell pool, maturation of B cells and differentiation into plasma cells. At each of these regulatory nodes, there are transcriptional networks that control the outcome, and much progress has recently been made in dissecting these networks. This article reviews our current understanding of this exciting field.
Alterations in T cell signal transduction by M. leprae antigens is associated with downregulation of second messengers PKC, calcium, calcineurin, MAPK and various transcription factors in leprosy patients.	Mycobacterium leprae, the causative agent of leprosy, challenges host defense mechanism by impairing the signal transduction of T cells which leads to downregulation of T cell proliferation, mainly as a consequence of interference with IL-2 production. In this study we sought to identify how soluble forms of M. leprae antigen(s) or particulate (liposome) delivery of the same antigens with two immunomodulators Murabutide and T cell peptide of Trat protein influence the transcription of IL-2 gene in anergic T cells of lepromatous patients. It was demonstrated that MLCwA/ManLAM stimulated cells of BL/LL patients showed defects in both jun-NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activities there by resulting in decreased AP-1 activity. Additionally these cells showed reduced calcium levels, PKC activity and calcineurin (CN) activity. This led to impaired nuclear translocation of NFkappaB and NFAT in these patients. In contrast, when same M. leprae antigen(s) were incorporated with the two immunomodulators in liposomal form, increased transcription of IL-2 gene was observed especially in BL/LL patients which appears to be due to, at least in part, to increased expression of AP-1 Fos and Jun family members, NFkappaB and NFAT1 proteins. The increased expression of these transcription factors correlated with increased ERK/JNK, PKC and CN activities in these patients. Since activation of ERK/JNK/PKC kinases and CN phosphatase are required for stimulation of IL-2 transcription, these data provide a molecular explanation for the block in IL-2 production by M. leprae antigens. Thus the above study revealed suppression of all the three distinct biochemical pathways, viz. Ca-CN-NFAT pathway, PKC-NF-kappaB pathway, and MAPK-AP-1 pathway by M. leprae antigen(s) in anergized T cells of lepromatous patients which were activated by liposomal delivery of M. leprae antigens containing the two immunomodulators leading to optimal induction of IL-2 gene expression, which was required for the activation, and proliferation of T cells in lepromatous patients.
Purification and identification of proteins that bind to the hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin -198 mutation in the gamma-globin gene promoter.	Expression of the gamma-globin gene is silenced in adult humans. However, certain point mutations in the gamma-globin gene promoter are capable of maintaining expression of this gene during adult erythropoiesis, a condition called non-deletion hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HPFH). Among these, the British form of HPFH carrying a T-->C point mutation at position -198 of the Agamma-globin gene promoter results in 4-10% fetal hemoglobin in heterozygotes. In this study, we used nuclear extracts from murine erythroleukemia cells to purify a protein complex that binds the HPFH -198 gamma-globin gene promoter. Members of this protein complex were identified by mass spectrometry and include DNMT1, the transcriptional coactivator p52, the protein SNEV, and RAP74 (the largest subunit of the general transcription factor IIF). Sp1, which was previously considered responsible for HPFH -198 gamma-globin gene activation, was not identified. The potential role of these proteins in the reactivation and/or maintenance of gamma-globin gene expression in the adult transcriptional environment is discussed.
Nur77 converts phenotype of Bcl-B, an antiapoptotic protein expressed in plasma cells and myeloma.	Defects in apoptosis mechanisms play important roles in malignancy and autoimmunity. Orphan nuclear receptor Nur77/TR3 has been demonstrated to bind antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and convert it from a cytoprotective to a cytodestructive protein, representing a phenotypic conversion mechanism. Of the 6 antiapoptotic human Bcl-2 family members, we found that Nur77/TR3 binds strongest to Bcl-B, showing selective reactivity with Bcl-B, Bcl-2, and Bfl-1 but not Bcl-X(L), Mcl-1, or Bcl-W. Nur77 converts the phenotype of Bcl-B from antiapoptotic to proapoptotic. Bcl-B is prominently expressed in plasma cells and multiple myeloma. Endogenous Bcl-B associates with endogenous Nur77 in RPMI 8226 myeloma cells, where RNA interference experiments demonstrated dependence on Bcl-B for Nur77-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, a Nur77-mimicking peptide killed RPMI 8226 myeloma cells through a Bcl-B-dependent mechanism. Because Bcl-B is abundantly expressed in plasma cells and some myelomas, these findings raise the possibility of exploiting the Nur77/Bcl-B mechanism for apoptosis for eradication of autoimmune plasma cells or myeloma.
Preferential expression and frequent IgG responses of a tumor antigen, SOX5, in glioma patients.	We previously reported to identify SOX5 as a glioma antigen by serological screening using a testis cDNA library. The present study was designed to analyze SOX5 expression, its immunoreactivity, and the correlation between SOX5 IgG responses and clinical features in glioma patients to evaluate the possibility of its use as a diagnostic marker. Quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis revealed that SOX5 was expressed in glioma tissues, but not in normal adult tissues, except in the testis. An immunohistochemical analysis showed that SOX5 was expressed in glioma cells, but only a few SOX5-positive cells were detected in non-neoplastic tissues from the cerebral cortex. IgG antibodies against SOX5 were detected in sera from 8 of the 27 glioma patients (27.6%), 0 of the 14 patients with other brain diseases (0%), 1 of the 54 other cancer patients (1.9%) and 1 of the 37 healthy individuals (2.7%). Patients with glioblastoma (GBM) who showed IgG responses against SOX5 exhibited significantly better survival periods than GBM patients without SOX5 antibodies. In summary, SOX5 is aberrantly expressed in glioma and can be recognized as a glioma antigen using IgGs from the sera of glioma patients. Furthermore, there is a statistically significant correlation between the presence of SOX5 IgGs and survival in GBM patients, suggesting that the glioma antigen SOX5 may be useful not only as a diagnostic marker, but also as a prognostic marker in glioma patients.
Selection of Foxp3+ regulatory T cells specific for self antigen expressed and presented by Aire+ medullary thymic epithelial cells.	The parameters specifying whether autoreactive CD4(+) thymocytes are deleted (recessive tolerance) or differentiate into regulatory T cells (dominant tolerance) remain unresolved. Dendritic cells directly delete thymocytes, partly through cross-presentation of peripheral antigens 'promiscuously' expressed in medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) positive for the autoimmune regulator Aire. It is unclear if and how mTECs themselves act as antigen-presenting cells during tolerance induction. Here we found that an absence of major histocompatibility class II molecules on mTECs resulted in fewer polyclonal regulatory T cells. Furthermore, targeting of a model antigen to Aire(+) mTECs led to the generation of specific regulatory T cells independently of antigen transfer to dendritic cells. Thus, 'routing' of mTEC-derived self antigens may determine whether specific thymocytes are deleted or enter the regulatory T cell lineage.
Glucocorticoids in the regulation of transcription factors that control cytokine synthesis.	The interaction at different levels between intracellular signals elicited by cytokines and activated glucocorticoid receptors (GR) is essential for the regulation of immune responses. We describe different levels of interaction between glucocorticoids and cytokines which result in the induction or repression of gene transcription. These include the regulation of cytokine receptor expression, the molecular cross-talk between the GR and transcription factors (TFs) activated by cytokine signaling, the interaction with several signaling pathways and also posttranslational modifications of both GR and TFs. Also, an overview of the implications of chromatin remodeling in this interplay is discussed. The complexity of the intricate network involved in the interaction between GR and TFs is pivotal for the final outcome of cytokines biological action.
Frequent and specific immunity to the embryonal stem cell-associated antigen SOX2 in patients with monoclonal gammopathy.	Specific targets of cellular immunity in human premalignancy are largely unknown. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) represents a precursor lesion to myeloma (MM). We show that antigenic targets of spontaneous immunity in MGUS differ from MM. MGUS patients frequently mount a humoral and cellular immune response against SOX2, a gene critical for self-renewal in embryonal stem cells. Intranuclear expression of SOX2 marks the clonogenic CD138(-) compartment in MGUS. SOX2 expression is also detected in a proportion of CD138(+) cells in MM patients. However, these patients lack anti-SOX2 immunity. Cellular immunity to SOX2 inhibits the clonogenic growth of MGUS cells in vitro. Detection of anti-SOX2 T cells predicts favorable clinical outcome in patients with asymptomatic plasmaproliferative disorders. Harnessing immunity to antigens expressed by tumor progenitor cells may be critical for prevention and therapy of human cancer.
Induction of IL-6 gene expression in a CF bronchial epithelial cell line by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is dependent on transcription factors belonging to the Sp1 superfamily.	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease characterized by chronic bacterial lung infection, most commonly sustained by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Upon infection, elevated concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines (i.e. IL-6 and IL1beta) and chemokines (i.e. IL-8 and GROgamma) are found in the bronchoalveolar fluid of CF patients. We report in this paper that: (a) IL-8, IL-6, IL-1beta, ICAM-1, and GRO-gamma genes are upregulated following infection of CF bronchial epithelial IB3-1 cells with P. aeruginosa; (b) Sp1 transcription factor activity is induced following infection of the cystic fibrosis IB3-1 and CuFi-1 cell lines; (c) inhibition of Sp1 activity using transcription factor decoy molecules leads to inhibition of the expression of IL-6 gene. From the theoretical point of view, our results demonstrate that Sp1 transcription factor activity is induced following infection of CF cells with P. aeruginosa, and that this effect is important in the activation of IL-6 gene transcription. From the practical point of view, our data sustain the potential use of decoy molecules targeting the transcription factor Sp1 to control a relevant molecule involved in the inflammatory process associated with the cystic fibrosis airway pathology.
Aire employs a histone-binding module to mediate immunological tolerance, linking chromatin regulation with organ-specific autoimmunity.	Aire induces ectopic expression of peripheral tissue antigens (PTAs) in thymic medullary epithelial cells, which promotes immunological tolerance. Beginning with a broad screen of histone peptides, we demonstrate that the mechanism by which this single factor controls the transcription of thousands of genes involves recognition of the amino-terminal tail of histone H3, but not of other histones, by one of Aire's plant homeodomain (PHD) fingers. Certain posttranslational modifications of H3 tails, notably dimethylation or trimethylation at H3K4, abrogated binding by Aire, whereas others were tolerated. Similar PHD finger-H3 tail-binding properties were recently reported for BRAF-histone deacetylase complex 80 and DNA methyltransferase 3L; sequence alignment, molecular modeling, and biochemical analyses showed these factors and Aire to have structure-function relationships in common. In addition, certain PHD1 mutations underlying the polyendocrine disorder autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiases-ectodermaldystrophy compromised Aire recognition of H3. In vitro binding assays demonstrated direct physical interaction between Aire and nucleosomes, which was in part buttressed by its affinity to DNA. In vivo Aire interactions with chromosomal regions depleted of H3K4me3 were dependent on its H3 tail-binding activity, and this binding was necessary but not sufficient for the up-regulation of genes encoding PTAs. Thus, Aire's activity as a histone-binding module mediates the thymic display of PTAs that promotes self-tolerance and prevents organ-specific autoimmunity.
Immunoglobulins and transcription factors in adenoids of children with otitis media with effusion and chronic rhinosinusitis.	To evaluate the level of immunoglobulins and expression of the transcription factors in the adenoids.
Transcriptional control of the TNF gene.	The cytokine TNF is a critical mediator of immune and inflammatory responses. The TNF gene is an immediate early gene, rapidly transcribed in a variety of cell types following exposure to a broad range of pathogens and signals of inflammation and stress. Regulation of TNF gene expression at the transcriptional level is cell type- and stimulus-specific, involving the recruitment of distinct sets of transcription factors to a compact and modular promoter region. In this review, we describe our current understanding of the mechanisms through which TNF transcription is specifically activated by a variety of extracellular stimuli in multiple cell types, including T cells, B cells, macrophages, mast cells, dendritic cells, and fibroblasts. We discuss the role of nuclear factor of activated T cells and other transcription factors and coactivators in enhanceosome formation, as well as the contradictory evidence for a role for nuclear factor kappaB as a classical activator of the TNF gene. We describe the impact of evolutionarily conserved cis-regulatory DNA motifs in the TNF locus upon TNF gene transcription, in contrast to the neutral effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms. We also assess the regulatory role of chromatin organization, epigenetic modifications, and long-range chromosomal interactions at the TNF locus.
IgE and IgG(4) autoantibodies against DFS70/LEDGF in atopic dermatitis.	DFS70/LEDGF is a known survival factor, growth factor, and HIV-1 transporter. It is also an autoantigen recognized by IgG autoantibodies (aAbs) in patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). In the past few decades, various IgE aAbs against self-proteins have been identified in AD. Although DFS70 is considered to be one of these proteins, to date, there has not been a detailed analysis of the significance of this putative autoantigen.
Juvenile dermatomyositis: immunopathogenesis, role of myositis-specific autoantibodies, and review of rituximab use.	Juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) is an autoimmune disease of the skin and muscle that affects children. The etiology is poorly understood, but genetic susceptibility, environmental triggers, and abnormal immune responses are each thought to play a part. T cells have traditionally been implicated in the immunopathogenesis of JDM, but dendritic cells, B cells, and microchimerism are increasingly associated. Additionally, myositis-specific autoantibodies (MSA) can be present in the sera of affected patients and may correlate with distinct clinical phenotypes. Given the role of humoral immunity and MSA, there has been recent interest in the use of rituximab to treat JDM. Early results are mixed, but it is hoped that a prospective clinical trial will shed light on the issue in the near future.
Fluorescent in vivo detection reveals that IgE(+) B cells are restrained by an intrinsic cell fate predisposition.	IgE antibodies may be protective in parasite immunity, but their aberrant production can lead to allergic disease and life-threatening anaphylaxis. Despite the importance of IgE regulation, few studies have directly examined the B cells that express IgE, because these cells are rare and difficult to detect. Here, we describe fluorescent IgE reporter mice and validate a flow cytometry procedure to allow sensitive and specific identification of IgE-expressing B cells in vivo. Similar to IgG1(+) cells, IgE(+) B cells differentiated into germinal center (GC) B cells and plasma cells (PCs) during primary immune responses to a T cell-dependent hapten-protein conjugate and the helminth Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. However, the participation of IgE(+) B cells in GCs was transient. IgE(+) B cells had an atypical propensity to upregulate the transcription factor Blimp-1 and undergo PC differentiation. Most IgE(+) PCs were short lived and showed reduced affinity maturation, revealing intrinsic mechanisms that restrict the IgE antibody response.
BmEts upregulates promoter activity of lebocin in Bombyx mori.	The Ets family protein BmEts is assumed to be implicated in determination of diapause in the embryogenesis of Bombyx mori. In this study, we found that expression of BmEts was increased in the fat body and other tissues of the 5th instar larvae in response to Escherichia coli injection. Cotransfection experiments using a silkworm cell line revealed that overexpression of BmEts significantly elevated the activity of lebocin promoter but not of cecropin B1, cecropin D, attacin, and moricin promoters. Activation of the lebocin promoter by BmEts was dependent on at least two κB elements and the most proximal GGAA/T motif located on the 5'-upstream region. BmEts further synergistically enhanced E. coli or BmRelish1-d2 (active form)-stimulated lebocin promoter activation. Two κB elements were also found to be involved in promoter activation by BmRelish1-d2 and in synergistic promoter activation by BmEts and BmRelish1-d2 in the silkworm cells. Specific binding of recombinant BmEts to the proximal κB element and the most proximal GGAA/T motif and interaction between BmEts and BmRelish1 were also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an Ets family protein directly regulating immune-related genes in invertebrates.
X-box binding protein 1 is essential for the anti-oxidant defense and cell survival in the retinal pigment epithelium.	Damage to the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is an early event in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) is a key transcription factor that regulates endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis and cell survival. This study aimed to delineate the role of endogenous XBP1 in the RPE. Our results show that in a rat model of light-induced retinal degeneration, XBP1 activation was suppressed in the RPE/choroid complex, accompanied by decreased anti-oxidant genes and increased oxidative stress. Knockdown of XBP1 by siRNA resulted in reduced expression of SOD1, SOD2, catalase, and glutathione synthase and sensitized RPE cells to oxidative damage. Using Cre/LoxP system, we generated a mouse line that lacks XBP1 only in RPE cells. Compared to wildtype littermates, RPE-XBP1 KO mice expressed less SOD1, SOD2, and catalase in the RPE, and had increased oxidative stress. At age 3 months and older, these mice exhibited apoptosis of RPE cells, decreased number of cone photoreceptors, shortened photoreceptor outer segment, reduced ONL thickness, and deficit in retinal function. Electron microscopy showed abnormal ultrastructure, Bruch's membrane thickening, and disrupted basal membrane infolding in XBP1-deficient RPE. These results indicate that XBP1 is an important gene involved in regulation of the anti-oxidant defense in the RPE, and that impaired activation of XBP1 may contribute to RPE dysfunction and cell death during retinal degeneration and AMD.
The p53-induced gene Ei24 is an essential component of the basal autophagy pathway.	Ei24 is a DNA damage response gene involved in growth suppression and apoptosis. The physiological function of Ei24, however, is poorly understood. Here we generated conditional knock-out mice of Ei24 and demonstrated that EI24 is an essential component of the basal autophagy pathway. Mice with neural-specific Ei24 deficiency develop age-dependent neurological abnormalities caused by massive axon degeneration and extensive neuron loss in brain and spinal cord. Notably, ablation of Ei24 leads to vacuolated oligodendroglial cells and demyelination of axons. Liver-specific depletion of Ei24 causes severe hepatomegaly with hepatocyte hypertrophy. Ei24 deficiency impairs autophagic flux, leading to accumulation of LC3, p62 aggregates, and ubiquitin-positive inclusions. Our study indicates that Ei24 is an essential autophagy gene and plays an important role in clearance of aggregate-prone proteins in neurons and hepatocytes.
Enhanced sensitivity of colon tumour cells to natural killer cell cytotoxicity after mild thermal stress is regulated through HSF1-mediated expression of MICA.	Previously we showed that mild thermal stress increased natural killer (NK) cell-mediated tumour cytotoxicity and that this could be blocked by anti-NKG2D or anti-MICA (major histolocompatability complex (MHC) class I related chain A) antibodies. Here, we investigated the role of the transcription factor heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) in thermal regulation of MICA expression in tumour cells in vitro and in vivo.
Effector T cells require fatty acid metabolism during murine graft-versus-host disease.	Activated T cells require increased energy to proliferate and mediate effector functions, but the metabolic changes that occur in T cells following stimulation in vivo are poorly understood, particularly in the context of inflammation. We have previously shown that T cells activated during graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) primarily rely on oxidative phosphorylation to synthesize adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Here, we demonstrate that alloreactive effector T cells (Teff) use fatty acids (FAs) as a fuel source to support their in vivo activation. Alloreactive T cells increased FA transport, elevated levels of FA oxidation enzymes, up-regulated transcriptional coactivators to drive oxidative metabolism, and increased their rates of FA oxidation. Importantly, increases in FA transport and up-regulation of FA oxidation machinery occurred specifically in T cells during GVHD and were not seen in Teff following acute activation. Pharmacological blockade of FA oxidation decreased the survival of alloreactive T cells but did not influence the survival of T cells during normal immune reconstitution. These studies suggest that pathways controlling FA metabolism might serve as therapeutic targets to treat GVHD and other T-cell-mediated immune diseases. 
Immunostaining for rapid diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia with the tetramethylrhodamine-5-isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-promyelocytic leukemia monoclonal antibody PG-M3.	Anti-promyelocytic leukemia (PML) immunofluorescence staining is a known diagnostic tool for rapid diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
Low-affinity FcγR interactions can decide the fate of novel human IgG-sensitised red blood cells and platelets.	G1Δnab is a mutant human IgG1 constant region with a lower ability to interact with FcγR than the natural IgG constant regions. Radiolabelled RBCs and platelets sensitised with specific G1Δnab Abs were cleared more slowly from human circulation than IgG1-sensitised counterparts. However, non-destructive splenic retention of G1Δnab-coated RBCs required investigation and plasma radioactivities now suggest this also occurred for platelets sensitised with an IgG1/G1Δnab mixture. In vitro assays with human cells showed that G1Δnab-sensitised RBCs did not cause FcγRI-mediated monocyte activation, FcγRIIIa-mediated antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) or macrophage phagocytosis although they did adhere to macrophages. Thus, FcγRII was implicated in the adhesion despite the Δnab mutation reducing the already low-affinity binding to this receptor class. Additional contacts via P-selectin enhance the interaction of sensitised platelets with monocytes and this system provided evidence of FcγRII-dependent activation by G1Δnab. These results emphasise the physiological relevance of low-affinity interactions: It appears that FcγRII interactions of G1Δnab allowed splenic retention of G1Δnab-coated RBCs with inhibitory FcγRIIb binding preventing RBC destruction and that FcγRIIb engagement by G1Δnab on IgG1/G1Δnab-sensitised platelets overcame activation by IgG1. Considering therapeutic blocking Abs, G1Δnab offers lower FcγR binding and a greater bias towards inhibition than IgG2 and IgG4 constant regions. 
B cell biology: an overview.	In this review we summarize recent insights into the development of human B cells primarily by studying immunodeficiencies. Development and differentiation of B cells can be considered as a paradigm for many other developmental processes in cell biology. However, it differs from the development of many other cell types by phases of extremely rapid cell division and by defined series of somatic recombination and mutation events required to assemble and refine the B cell antigen receptors. Both somatic DNA alteration and proliferation phases take place in defined sites but in different organs. Thus, cell migration and timely arrival at defined sites are additional features of B cell development. By comparing experimental mouse models with insights gained from studying defined genetic defects leading to primary immunodeficiencies and hypogammaglobulinemia, we address important features that are characteristic for human B cells. We also summarize recent advances made by developing improved in vitro and in vivo systems allowing the development of human B cells from hematopoietic stem cells. Combined with genetic and functional studies of immunodeficiencies, these models will contribute not only to a better understanding of disease affecting the B lymphocyte compartment, but also to designing better and safer novel B cell-targeted therapies in autoimmunity and allergy. 
B cell transcription factors: Potential new therapeutic targets for SLE.	B cells represent a critical arm of the adaptive immune system, and under normal circumstances, provide long lasting immunity to a wide range of pathogens. To achieve this, B cells differentiate into specialized subpopulations, which perform unique functions in response to antigen. A complex network of transcription factors regulates this transition as well as subsequent effector functions. Dysregulation of these transcription factors can lead to altered B cell biology and potentially autoimmunity. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease characterized by increased autoantibody production and B cell hyper-reactivity. It still remains unclear, however, what factors contribute to disease pathogenesis. Recent work has suggested dysregulation of B cell transcription factors may play a role in disease onset. Given the prominent role B cells play in the pathogenesis of SLE, it is important to have a full understanding of what transcription factors regulate B cell development, and how dysregulation of some of these transcription factors may contribute to the occurrence and/or pathogenesis of SLE. A comprehensive review of where this field currently stands, what new potential targets have recently been identified, and what functional information is still missing will be discussed.
Generating a battery of monoclonal antibodies against native green fluorescent protein for immunostaining, FACS, IP, and ChIP using a unique adjuvant.	Using a unique, nontoxic adjuvant compound of poly(I:C) and anti-CD40 MAb, a battery of eight mouse monoclonal antibodies was generated against native green fluorescent protein. All were effective to varying degrees for immunostaining paraformaldehyde-fixed cells, six for staining sections of paraffin-embedded tissue, all to varying degrees in fluorescent-activated cell sorting, five for immunoprecipitation, and seven for chromatin immunoprecipitation. None worked in denaturing Western blots since the target was the native GFP protein. Both the hybridomas and antibodies are available at cost through DSHB, a non-profit National Resource created by the National Institutes of Health. 
Distribution of IgG subclasses among human autoantibodies to Sm, RNP, dsDNA, SS-B and IgG rheumatoid factor.	The IgG subclass distribution of human autoantibodies to Sm, double-stranded DNA (ds-DNA), ribonucleoprotein (RNP), SS-B (La), and IgG rheumatoid factor (RF) have been determined using sensitive ELISA or by indirect immunofluorescence on Crithidia lucilia in sera from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), Sjögren's syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis. For anti-Sm and anti-RNP, IgG1 was the predominant isotype. For anti-ds-DNA and anti-SS-B, IgG1 and a lesser contribution of IgG3 was found. In contrast, IgG1 and IgG4 were the predominant isotypes of human IgG RF. The preponderance of isotypes noted for these autoantibodies did not extend to the IgG subclass distribution for antibodies to trinitrophenol-bovine serum albumin (TNP), tetanus toxoid (Tet. tox.), pneumococcal polysaccharides (Pneumo), and group A streptococcal cell walls (Strep.). The restriction of human humoral responses as well as autoantibodies has both pathogenetic and immunoregulatory implications, and suggests that for these autoantibodies, T-cell-dependent responses, probably driven by antigen, are of importance.
The association of an HPV16 oncogene variant with HLA-B7 has implications for vaccine design in cervical cancer.	HLA-restricted cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) recognition of human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogene products may be important in the control of the HPV infections associated with the development of cervical cancer. We have identified, in HLA-B7 individuals, a consistent variation in the HPV16 E6 oncoprotein sequence, which alters an HLA-B7 peptide binding epitope in a way likely to influence immune recognition by CTLs. These results illustrate a biologically relevant mechanism for escape from immune surveillance of HPV16 in HLA-B7 individuals. Thus, both HLA type and HPV16 strain variation need to be considered in the screening of at-risk individuals and for the rational design of anti-HPV vaccines.
The RNA polymerase I-specific transcription initiation factor UBF is associated with transcriptionally active and inactive ribosomal genes.	We have characterized an anti-NOR (nucleolar organizer region) serum (P419) from a patient with rheumatoid arthritis and show that it contains antibodies directed against the RNA polymerase I-specific transcription initiation factor UBF. This serum reacts with UBF from a variety of vertebrate cells as revealed both by immunoblotting and by indirect immunofluorescence. We have used the P419 serum to study the intracellular localization of this transcription factor at the light and electron microscopic level. In interphase cells, UBF exhibits a pronounced punctate pattern and is found to be associated with necklace-like structures, which appear to reflect the transcriptionally active state of the nucleolus. Inhibition of rRNA synthetic activity caused either by nutritional starvation or by actinomycin D treatment resulted in a marked decrease in the number and in a significant increase in the size of UBF-positive granules. Under all experimental conditions applied, UBF was exclusively found within the nucleolus and was not released into the nucleoplasm or cytoplasm. During mitosis, UBF was found to be concentrated at the chromosomal NOR indicating that a significant quantity, if not all, of this factor remains bound to the ribosomal transcription units. From this we conclude that UBF is associated both with transcriptionally active and inactive rRNA genes and, therefore, changes in the intracellular localization of UBF are very likely not involved in rDNA transcription regulation.
Norepinephrine-induced phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB in isolated rat pinealocytes: an immunocytochemical study.	In the present study we investigated whether norepinephrine, which stimulates melatonin biosynthesis in the mammalian pineal organ, causes phosphorylation of the cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) in rat pinealocytes. Cells isolated from the pineal organ of adult male rats and cultured on coated coverslips were treated with norepinephrine, beta- or alpha 1-adrenergic agonists for 12, 5, 10, 20, 30, 60 or 300 min and then immunocytochemically analyzed with an antibody against phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB). Treatment with norepinephrine or beta-adrenergic agonists resulted in a similar, time-dependent induction of p-CREB immunoreactivity, exclusively found in cell nuclei. The alpha 1-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine did not induce p-CREB immunoreactivity at low doses (0.1 microM) or when high doses (10 microM) were applied in combination with a beta-antagonist (propranolol, 0.1 microM). This indicates that induction of CREB phosphorylation is elicited by beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation. The response was first seen after 10 min and reached a maximum after 30 to 60 min when more than 90% of the cells displayed p-CREB immunoreactivity. The intensity of the p-CREB immunoreactivity showed marked cell-to-cell variation, but nearly all immunoreactive cells were identified as pinealocytes by double-labeling with an antibody against the S-antigen, a pinealocyte-specific marker. The results show that norepinephrine stimulation induces p-CREB immunoreactivity by acting upon beta-adrenergic receptors in virtually all rat pinealocytes. The findings support the notion that phosphorylation of CREB is a rather rapid and uniform response of pinealocytes to noradrenergic stimulation and thus is an important link between adrenoreceptor activation and subsequent gene expression in the rat pineal organ.
Tissue specific expression of testis angiotensin converting enzyme is not determined by the -32 nonconsensus TATA motif.	Testis ACE is an isozyme of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) made by male germ cells. These cells recognize a small intragenic promoter which contains a positive regulatory element, TCTTAT, at position -32. A probe containing this element was gel shifted to an identical location by rat testis and rat liver nuclear extracts; formation of the complex was blocked by anti-TATA binding protein antibody. Recombinant TATA binding protein recognized the testis ACE TCTTAT motif as well as a probe containing the consensus TATA motif. Mice transgenic for testis ACE promoter constructs containing either the wild type testis ACE motif or a consensus TATA sequence expressed a reporter gene at high levels only within the testis. These data suggest that the testis ACE motif TCTTAT is a non-consensus TATA, but is not responsible for the highly restricted pattern of testis ACE gene expression.
TFIIH functions in regulating transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II in Xenopus oocytes.	We investigated the role of TFIIH in transcription by RNA polymerase II (pol II) in vivo by microinjection of antibodies against this factor into Xenopus oocytes. Five different antibodies directed against four subunits of TFIIH were tested for effects on transcription of coinjected human immunodeficiency virus type 2 and c-myc templates. Each of these antibodies severely reduced the efficiency of elongation through human immunodeficiency virus type 2 and c-myc terminator elements. In contrast, an anti-TFIIB antibody did not inhibit elongation. Anti-TFIIH antibodies also had a much smaller inhibitory effect on total transcription than did anti-TFIIB or anti-pol II large subunit. Three inhibitors of TFIIH kinase activity, H-7, H-8, and dichlororibofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB), inhibited elongation similarly to anti-TFIIH antibodies. These results strongly suggest a role for TFIIH in the stimulation of transcriptional elongation in vivo.
Multiple promoter elements contribute to activity of the follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) gene in testicular Sertoli cells.	The FSH receptor (FSHR) is expressed only in granulosa cells of the ovary and Sertoli cells of the testis. This highly specific pattern of gene expression asserts that transcriptional events unique to these two cell types are responsible for activation of the FSHR gene. We have characterized the promoter elements required for activity of the rat FSHR gene in a Sertoli cell line MSC-1, primary cultures of rat Sertoli cells, and two non-Sertoli cell lines. Transient transfection analysis of deletion and block replacement mutants identified several elements, both 5' and 3' to the transcriptional start sites, that are essential for full promoter activity in Sertoli cells. These studies confirmed the use of an important E box element (CACGTG), which had the single greatest impact on promoter function. Bases within the core CACGTG of the E box, as well as flanking sequences, were shown to be essential for its function. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays identified both upstream stimulatory factor 1 (USF1) and USF2 as primary components of the complexes binding the E box. Sequence requirements for USF binding in vitro modestly diverged from the sequence requirements for in vivo function of the element. Comparison of the E box binding proteins in different cell types revealed that similar proteins bind the E box in Sertoli and non-Sertoli cell lines. Extracts from primary cultures of rat and mouse Sertoli cells have a second E box-binding complex that cross-reacts with USF antibodies that is not present in the cell lines.
The role of Ets-1 in mast cell granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor expression and activation.	Ets-1 is a transcription factor with restricted expression in lymphocytes, and it has been implicated in the regulation of T cell genes such as TCR alpha, TCR beta, CD4, IL-2, and TNF-alpha. We show in this study that Ets-1 is also expressed in some mast cells constitutively and can be induced in primary mast cells with stimuli that activate mast cells. We also show that Ets-1 plays a role in the regulation of granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF), a cytokine expressed by activated mast cells. We have characterized a murine growth factor-independent mast cell line, FMP6-, derived from a factor-dependent cell line, FMP1.6. FMP6- has acquired a distinct connective tissue mast cell-like phenotype, as characterized by the expression of mast cell proteases MMCP-4 and MMCP-6, expression of IL-12, and the down-regulation of IL-4. The parental FMP1.6 cell line displays a mucosal mast cell-like phenotype. FMP6- cells have increased Ets-1 expression and achieve growth-factor independence by the autocrine production of GM-CSF and IL-3. Transient transfection of an Ets-1 expression construct in FMP6- cells results in transactivation of a GM-CSF reporter, while a point mutation in the consensus Ets binding site in the conserved lymphokine element, CLE0, abolishes Ets-1 transactivation. Importantly, antisense Ets-1 demonstrates an ability to repress the activity of the GM-CSF reporter. These data suggest a role for Ets-1 in mast cell growth regulation and activation, and because of the central role of mast cells in inflammatory processes, such as asthma and rheumatoid arthritis, they identify Ets-1 as potentially contributing to the pathophysiology of such diseases.
Role of NF-kappaB in immune and inflammatory responses in the gut.	NF-kappaB is a pleiotropic transcription factor with key functions in the intestinal immune system. NF-kappaB family members control transcriptional activity of various promoters of proinflammatory cytokines, cell surface receptors, transcription factors, and adhesion molecules that are involved in intestinal inflammation. The perpetuated activation of NF-kappaB in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease suggests that regulation of NF-kappaB activity is a very attractive target for therapeutic intervention. Such strategies include antioxidants, proteasome inhibitors, inhibition of NF-kappaB by adenoviral I kappaB alpha expression vectors, and antisense DNA targeting of NF-kappaB. These approaches will hopefully permit the design of new treatment strategies for chronic intestinal inflammation.
c-Rel is essential for B lymphocyte survival and cell cycle progression.	c-Rel is a lymphoid-specific member of the NF-kappaB/Rel family of transcriptional factors. To investigate the role of c-Rel in B lymphocyte function, we generated a c-Rel(-/-) mouse via a gene targeting approach. Although early lymphocyte development is normal in c-Rel(-/-) mice, there are significantly fewer B cells displaying a memory (IgM/IgD-) phenotype. Upon immunization, c-Rel(-/-) mice generate fewer B cells with a germinal center (PNAhi) phenotype. In vitro, c-Rel(-/-) B cells proliferate poorly upon ligation of their surface IgM or CD40 receptors or when stimulated with either lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or T cell help. Early molecular events that precede proliferation, such as increases in RNA synthesis as well as IL-2 receptor alpha chain expression, are greatly diminished in c-Rel(-/-) B cells. Furthermore, c-Rel(-/-) B cells are impaired in the ability to receive survival signals generated by anti-IgM or LPS. In contrast, CD40-mediated cell survival is normal in c-Rel(-/-) B cells, suggesting the involvement of a survival-signaling pathway that is independent of c-Rel. When c-Rel (-/-) B cells are co-stimulated with either anti-IgM and CD40 or LPS and CD40, they are rendered capable of progressing through the cell cycle. Finally, co-culture experiments suggest that the defects observed in c-Rel(-/-) B cells are intrinsic to the cell and can not be rescued through either cell-cell contact or addition of soluble factors. Thus, c-Rel is requisite for differentiation to the germinal center and memory B cells in vivo and is required for the transduction of survival and cell cycle progression signals mediated by anti-IgM and LPS in vitro. Furthermore, while c-Rel is involved in CD40-induced proliferation, it is apparently dispensable for the survival signals transduced by CD40.
