TAF25p, a non-histone-like subunit of TFIID and SAGA complexes, is essential for total mRNA gene transcription in vivo.	We demonstrate, utilizing a temperature conditional mutant allele of the gene encoding TAF25p, that this non-histone-like TBP-associated factor, which is shared between the TFIID and SAGA complexes, is required for bulk mRNA gene transcription by RNA polymerase II in vivo. Immunoblotting experiments indicate that at the restrictive temperature, inactivation of TAF25p function results in a reduction of the levels of numerous TFIID and SAGA subunits, indicating its loss of function, like the histone-like TAFs, causes degradation of the constituents of these two multisubunit complexes. These data suggest that TAF25p plays a key structural role in maintaining TFIID and SAGA complex integrity. This is the first demonstration that a non-histone-like TAF is required for continuous, high level RNA polymerase II-mediated mRNA gene transcription in living yeast cells.
Characterization of the ptr6(+) gene in fission yeast: a possible involvement of a transcriptional coactivator TAF in nucleocytoplasmic transport of mRNA.	Transport of mRNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is one of the important steps in gene expression in eukaryotic cells. To elucidate a mechanism of mRNA export, we identified a novel ptr [poly(A)+ RNA transport] mutation, ptr6, which causes accumulation of mRNA in the nucleus and inhibition of growth at the nonpermissive temperature. The ptr6(+) gene was found to encode an essential protein of 393 amino acids, which shares significant homology in amino acid sequence with yTAFII67 of budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and human hTAFII55, a subunit of the general transcription factor complex TFIID. A Ptr6p-GFP fusion protein is localized in the nucleus, suggesting that Ptr6p functions there. Northern blot analysis using probes for 10 distinct mRNAs showed that the amount of tbp+ mRNA encoding the TATA-binding protein is increased five- to sixfold, whereas amounts of others are rapidly decreased at the nonpermissive temperature in ptr6-1. ptr6 has no defects in nuclear import of an NLS-GFP fusion protein. These results suggest that Ptr6p required for mRNA transport is a Schizosaccharomyces pombe homologue of yTAFII67 and hTAFII55. This is the first report suggesting that a TAF is involved in the nucleocytoplasmic transport of mRNA in addition to the transcription of the protein-coding genes.
A role for TBP dimerization in preventing unregulated gene expression.	The recruitment of the TATA box-binding protein (TBP) to promoters in vivo is often rate limiting in gene expression. We present evidence that TBP negatively autoregulates its accessibility to promoter DNA in yeast through dimerization. The crystal structure of TBP dimers was used to design point mutations in the dimer interface. These mutants are impaired for dimerization in vitro, and in vivo they generate large increases in activator-independent gene expression. Overexpression of wild-type TBP suppresses these mutants, possibly by heterodimerizing with them. In addition to loss of autorepression, dimerization-defective TBPs are rapidly degraded in vivo. Direct detection of TBP dimers in vivo was achieved through chemical cross-linking. Taken together, the data suggest that TBP dimerization prevents unregulated gene expression and its own degradation.
The cyclic AMP response element modulator family regulates the insulin gene transcription by interacting with transcription factor IID.	We analyzed a mechanism of transcriptional regulation of the human insulin gene by cyclic AMP response element modulator (CREM) through four cyclic AMP response elements (CREs). We isolated two novel CREM isoforms (CREMDeltaQ1 and CREMDeltaQ2), which lack one of the glutamine-rich domains, Q1 and Q2 respectively, and six known isoforms (CREMtaualpha, CREMalpha, inducible cyclic AMP early repressor (ICER) I, ICER Igamma, CREM-17X, and CREM-17) from rat pancreatic islets and the RINm5F pancreatic beta-cell line. CREM isoforms functioned as efficient transcriptional activators or repressors to modulate insulin promoter activity by binding to all of the insulin CREs. The binding activity of repressors is higher than that of activators and suppressed not only basal activity but also activator-induced activities. Furthermore, CREM activator interacted directly with the transcription factor IID components hTAF(II)130 and TATA box-binding protein (TBP). These results suggest that the activation of the insulin gene transcription by CREM activator is mediated by not only direct binding to the CREs but also by recruiting transcription factor IID to the insulin promoter via its interaction with hTAF(II)130 and TBP. On the other hand, the CREM repressor ICER competitively interrupts the binding of the activators to CREs and does not interact with either TBP or hTAF(II)130; therefore, it might fail to stabilize the basal transcriptional machinery and repress transactivation.
Human TAF(II)55 interacts with the vitamin D(3) and thyroid hormone receptors and with derivatives of the retinoid X receptor that have altered transactivation properties.	We have identified novel interactions between the human (h)TATA-binding protein-associated factor TAF(II)55 and the ligand-binding domains (LBDs) of the nuclear receptors for vitamin D(3) (VDR) and thyroid hormone (TRalpha). Following expression in Cos cells, hTAF(II)55 interacts with the VDR and TRalpha LBDs in a ligand-independent manner whereas no interactions with the retinoid X receptors (RXRs) or with other receptors were observed. Deletion mapping indicates that hTAF(II)55 interacts with a 40-amino-acid region spanning alpha-helices H3 to H5 of the VDR and TRalpha LBDs but not with the equivalent highly related region of RXRgamma. TAF(II)55 also interacts with chimeric receptors in which the H3-to-H5 region of RXRgamma has been replaced with that of the VDR or TRalpha. Furthermore, replacement of two single amino acids of the RXRgamma LBD with their VDR counterparts allows the RXRgamma LBD to interact with hTAF(II)55 while the corresponding double substitution allows a much stronger interaction. In transfection experiments, the single mutated RXRgamma LBDs activate transcription to fivefold higher levels than wild-type RXRgamma while the double mutation activates transcription to a level comparable to that observed with the VDR. There is therefore a correlation between the ability of the modified RXRs to interact with hTAF(II)55 and transactivation. These results strongly suggest that the TAF(II)55 interactions with the modified RXR LBDs modulate transcriptional activation.
Human transcription factor hTAF(II)150 (CIF150) is involved in transcriptional regulation of cell cycle progression.	Here we present evidence that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150), the human homolog of Drosophila TAF(II)150, plays an important and selective role in establishing gene expression patterns necessary for progression through the cell cycle. Gel filtration experiments demonstrate that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) seems to be less tightly associated with human transcription factor IID than hTAF(II)130 is associated with hTAF(II)250. The transient functional knockout of CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) protein led to cell cycle arrest at the G(2)/M transition in mammalian cell lines. PCR display analysis with the RNA derived from CIF150-depleted cells indicated that CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) is required for the transcription of only a subset of RNA polymerase II genes. CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) directly stimulated cyclin B1 and cyclin A transcription in cotransfection assays and in vitro assays, suggesting that the expression of these genes is dependent on CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) function. We defined a CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) consensus binding site and demonstrated that a CIF150-responsive cis element is present in the cyclin B1 core promoter. These results suggest that one function of CIF150 (hTAF(II)150) is to select specific RNA polymerase II core promoter elements involved in cell cycle progression.
Transcription factor TFIIH is required for promoter melting in vivo.	The Rad25 protein in yeast is a DNA helicase and a subunit of the general transcription factor TFIIH. While in vitro studies have led to the hypothesis that TFIIH helicase activity plays a role in promoter melting, in vivo tests are lacking. Using potassium permanganate, which preferentially modifies single-stranded DNA, we show that a temperature-sensitive rad25(ts) mutant severely reduces the normally extensive promoter melting observed in vivo on the highly expressed genes TDH2 and PDC1 and on the induced heat shock gene HSP82. Loss of promoter melting can be observed in as little as 30 s after a shift to the nonpermissive temperature and is accompanied by a dramatic reduction in transcription. These effects on the promoter are specific, since the mutation does not affect TATA box occupancy or, in the case of HSP82, recruitment of TATA-binding protein to the TATA element or that of heat shock factor to heat shock elements. Additionally, using the technique of formaldehyde cross-linking coupled with restriction endonuclease cleavage and ligation-mediated PCR, we were able to map the polymerase density on the promoter of HSP82. This high-resolution mapping allowed us to determine that the polymerase II (Pol II) density on the promoter is also dramatically reduced after inactivation of TFIIH. These data provide strong support for the hypothesis that TFIIH functions with Pol II in the transcriptionally required step of promoter melting and show, surprisingly, that the extent of TFIIH-dependent promoter melting observed in vivo is several times larger than that seen in vitro.
TAF(II)250: a transcription toolbox.	Activation of RNA-polymerase-II-dependent transcription involves conversion of signals provided by gene-specific activator proteins into the synthesis of messenger RNA. This conversion requires dynamic structural changes in chromatin and assembly of general transcription factors (GTFs) and RNA polymerase II at core promoter sequence elements surrounding the transcription start site of genes. One hallmark of transcriptional activation is the interaction of DNA-bound activators with coactivators such as the TATA-box binding protein (TBP)-associated factors (TAF(II)s) within the GTF TFIID. TAF(II)250 possesses a variety of activities that are likely to contribute to the initial steps of RNA polymerase II transcription. TAF(II)250 is a scaffold for assembly of other TAF(II)s and TBP into TFIID, TAF(II)250 binds activators to recruit TFIID to particular promoters, TAF(II)250 regulates binding of TBP to DNA, TAF(II)250 binds core promoter initiator elements, TAF(II)250 binds acetylated lysine residues in core histones, and TAF(II)250 possesses protein kinase, ubiquitin-activating/conjugating and acetylase activities that modify histones and GTFs. We speculate that these activities achieve two goals--(1) they aid in positioning and stabilizing TFIID at particular promoters, and (2) they alter chromatin structure at the promoter to allow assembly of GTFs--and we propose a model for how TAF(II)250 converts activation signals into active transcription.
The coactivator dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135 is sufficient to recruit a polymerase complex and activate basal transcription mediated by CREB.	A specific TATA binding protein-associated factor (TAF), dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135, interacts with cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) through its constitutive activation domain (CAD), which recruits a polymerase complex and activates transcription. The simplest explanation is that the TAF is a coactivator, but several studies have questioned this role of TAFs. Using a reverse two-hybrid analysis in yeast, we previously mapped the interaction between dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308) and CREB to conserved hydrophobic amino acid residues in the CAD. That mapping was possible only because CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast, where all TAFs are conserved, except for the TAF recognizing CREB. To test whether CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast because it lacks a coactivator, we fused dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308) to the TATA binding protein domain of the yeast scaffolding TAF, yTAF(II)130. Transformation of yeast with this hybrid TAF conferred activation by the CAD, indicating that interaction with yTFIID is sufficient to recruit a polymerase complex and activate transcription. The hybrid TAF did not mediate activation by VP16 or vitamin D receptor, each of which interacts with TFIIB, but not with dTAF(II)110 (amino acid 1-308). Enhancement of transcription activation by dTAF(II)110 in mammalian cells required interaction with both the CAD and TFIID and was inhibited by mutation of core hydrophobic residues in the CAD. These data demonstrate that dTAF(II)110/hTAF(II)135 acts as a coactivator to recruit TFIID and polymerase and that this mechanism of activation is conserved in eukaryotes.
Chromatin-dependent cooperativity between constitutive and inducible activation domains in CREB.	The cyclic AMP (cAMP)-responsive factor CREB induces target gene expression via constitutive (Q2) and inducible (KID, for kinase-inducible domain) activation domains that function synergistically in response to cellular signals. KID stimulates transcription via a phospho (Ser133)-dependent interaction with the coactivator paralogs CREB binding protein and p300, whereas Q2 recruits the TFIID complex via a direct association with hTAF(II)130. Here we investigate the mechanism underlying cooperativity between the Q2 domain and KID in CREB by in vitro transcription assay with naked DNA and chromatin templates containing the cAMP-responsive somatostatin promoter. The Q2 domain was highly active on a naked DNA template, and Ser133 phosphorylation had no additional effect on transcriptional initiation in crude extracts. Q2 activity was repressed on a chromatin template, however, and this repression was relieved by the phospho (Ser133) KID-dependent recruitment of p300 histone acetyltransferase activity to the promoter. In chromatin immunoprecipitation assays of NIH 3T3 cells, cAMP-dependent recruitment of p300 to the somatostatin promoter stimulated acetylation of histone H4. Correspondingly, overexpression of hTAFII130 potentiated CREB activity in cells exposed to cAMP, but had no effect on reporter gene expression in unstimulated cells. We propose that cooperativity between the KID and Q2 domains proceeds via a chromatin-dependent mechanism in which recruitment of p300 facilitates subsequent interaction of CREB with TFIID.
Gene-selective developmental roles of general transcription factors.	Innumerable transcription factors integrate cellular and intercellular signals to generate a profile of expressed genes that is characteristic of the biochemical and cellular properties of the cell. This profile of expressed genes changes dynamically along with the developmental stage and differentiation state of the cell. The biochemical machinery upon which transcription factors integrate their signals is referred to as the general transcription machinery. However, this machinery is not of universal composition, and variants of the general transcription factors play specific roles in embryonic development, reflecting the constraints and requirements of developmental gene regulation.
Arabidopsis UVH6, a homolog of human XPD and yeast RAD3 DNA repair genes, functions in DNA repair and is essential for plant growth.	To evaluate the genetic control of stress responses in Arabidopsis, we have analyzed a mutant (uvh6-1) that exhibits increased sensitivity to UV light, a yellow-green leaf coloration, and mild growth defects. We have mapped the uvh6-1 locus to chromosome I and have identified a candidate gene, AtXPD, within the corresponding region. This gene shows sequence similarity to the human (Homo sapiens) XPD and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) RAD3 genes required for nucleotide excision repair. We propose that UVH6 is equivalent to AtXPD because uvh6-1 mutants carry a mutation in a conserved residue of AtXPD and because transformation of uvh6-1 mutants with wild-type AtXPD DNA suppresses both UV sensitivity and other defective phenotypes. Furthermore, the UVH6/AtXPD protein appears to play a role in repair of UV photoproducts because the uvh6-1 mutant exhibits a moderate defect in the excision of UV photoproducts. This defect is also suppressed by transformation with UVH6/AtXPD DNA. We have further identified a T-DNA insertion in the UVH6/AtXPD gene (uvh6-2). Plants carrying homozygous insertions were not detected in analyses of progeny from plants heterozygous for the insertion. Thus, homozygous insertions appear to be lethal. We conclude that the UVH6/AtXPD gene is required for UV resistance and is an essential gene in Arabidopsis.
Cooperativity in transactivation between retinoic acid receptor and TFIID requires an activity analogous to E1A.	In embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells retinoic acid (RA) strongly induces transcription from the RA receptor beta 2 (RAR beta 2) promoter through an RA response element (RARE) located in close proximity to the TATA box. Here we demonstrate that recombinant human TATA box-binding protein, hTFIID, and RAR functionally cooperate in transactivation of the RAR beta 2 promoter in EC cells in a strictly RA-dependent manner. We demonstrate that the core domain of hTFIID is sufficient to mediate RAR-dependent transcription and that Drosophila, but not yeast, TFIID can substitute for hTFIID. In COS cells ectopic expression of the E1A protein is a prerequisite for hTFIID and RAR to cooperate in transactivation. We propose a model for transcriptional regulation of the RAR beta 2 promoter in EC cells in which RAR, following activation by RA, functionally interacts with hTFIID via an E1A-like activity present in EC cells.
The human cytomegalovirus 80-kilodalton but not the 72-kilodalton immediate-early protein transactivates heterologous promoters in a TATA box-dependent mechanism and interacts directly with TFIID.	We have asked how the human cytomegalovirus major immediate-early 1 (IE1) and 2 (IE2) proteins act to transactivate heterologous cellular and viral promoters. Here we show that transactivation of the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat and the 70,000-molecular-weight heat shock protein (hsp70) promoter by IE1 is TATA box independent and that the IE1 protein does not interact directly with the TATA box-binding factor TFIID. Conversely, transactivation of these promoters by IE2 is TATA box dependent and a direct interaction between IE2 and TFIID occurs, suggesting that IE2 transactivation is mediated through interaction with TFIID.
Mechanism of assembly of the RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex. Evidence for a functional interaction between the carboxyl-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II and a high molecular mass form of the TATA factor.	Genetic evidence argues that the highly conserved carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II functions directly in the regulation of transcription of many eukaryotic genes. The observation that partial deletion of the CTD of yeast RNA polymerase II reduces the ability of the enzyme to respond to signals from a variety of upstream activating sequences led to the proposal that the CTD plays a role in the dialogue between regulatory factors that bind upstream activating sequences and the "general" or "basal" transcription factors associated with RNA polymerase II at the promoter (Scafe, C., Chao, D., Lopes, J., Hirsch, J. P., Henry, S., and Young, R. A. (1990) Nature 347, 491-494). Biochemical evidence for an interaction of the CTD with specific components of the basal transcription apparatus, however, has been lacking. To identify target(s) for CTD action, we probed steps in assembly of the RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex with monoclonal antibodies specific for the CTD. Our findings reveal a novel interaction of the CTD with a high molecular mass form of the TATA factor. This interaction occurs during binding of RNA polymerase II to its promoter and requires the action of additional basal transcription factors; it is not observed when the single-subunit yeast transcription factor IID serves as the TATA factor.
Biochemical and genetic characterization of a yeast TFIID mutant that alters transcription in vivo and DNA binding in vitro.	A mutation in the gene that encodes Saccharomyces cerevisiae TFIID (SPT15), which was isolated in a selection for mutations that alter transcription in vivo, changes a single amino acid in a highly conserved region of the second direct repeat in TFIID. Among eight independent spt15 mutations, seven cause this same amino acid change, Leu-205 to Phe. The mutant TFIID protein (L205F) binds with greater affinity than that of wild-type TFIID to at least two nonconsensus TATA sites in vitro, showing that the mutant protein has altered DNA binding specificity. Site-directed mutations that change Leu-205 to five different amino acids cause five different phenotypes, demonstrating the importance of this amino acid in vivo. Virtually identical phenotypes were observed when the same amino acid changes were made at the analogous position, Leu-114, in the first repeat of TFIID. Analysis of these mutations and additional mutations in the most conserved regions of the repeats, in conjunction with our DNA binding results, suggests that these regions of the repeats play equivalent roles in TFIID function, possibly in TATA box recognition.
Two different cDNAs encoding TFIID proteins of maize.	Two different complementary DNAs (cDNAs) encoding maize TFIID proteins were isolated from a maize leaf cDNA. Both cDNA sequences reveal two types of TFIID, each encoding an open reading frame of 200 amino acids. The two cDNAs are 76% identical at the DNA level and their putative amino acid sequences differ at only three amino acids. Like TATA box binding proteins from other organisms they show a bipartite structure containing a specific N-terminal region and a highly conserved C-terminal domain expected to be necessary and sufficient for the essential TFIID functions in transcriptional initiation.
Mechanism of assembly of the RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex. Transcription factors delta and epsilon promote stable binding of the transcription apparatus to the initiator element.	Assembly of RNA polymerase II with the core region of TATA box-containing promoters requires the action of the TATA factor and four transcription factors designated alpha, beta gamma, delta, and epsilon, which have each been purified to near homogeneity from rat liver. Evidence from previous studies argues that alpha and beta gamma play a crucial role in delivering RNA polymerase II to the promoter (Conaway, R. C., Garrett, K. P., Hanley, J. P., and Conaway, J. W. (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 88, 6205-6209). Here we describe the interaction of transcription factor delta with preinitiation intermediates assembled in the presence of either recombinant yeast TFIID or the high molecular mass, endogenous TATA factor tau from rat liver (Conaway, J. W., Hanley, J. P., Garrett, K. P., and Conaway, R. C. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 7804-7811). Results of template challenge experiments argue that delta enters the preinitiation complex through interactions with multiple components of the transcription apparatus. We observe that, in the presence of recombinant TFIID, delta interacts stably with the preinitiation complex only in the presence of RNA polymerase II, alpha, and beta gamma, whereas, in the presence of tau, delta is capable of interacting stably with the Initial Complex independently of RNA polymerase II. Results of restriction site protection experiments reveal that delta and epsilon promote binding of the transcription apparatus to the Initiator element and support the model that RNA polymerase II assembles at the core promoter in at least two discrete steps, first "touching down" near the TATA element and finally extending its interaction downstream to encompass the cap site.
Repression of the H5 histone gene by a factor from erythrocytes that binds to the region of transcription initiation.	Expression of histone H5, like that of other erythrocyte specific proteins, declines during the latter stages of erythroid maturation because of a decrease in the rate of gene transcription. Here, we report the isolation of cIBR (chicken initiation binding repressor), a 75 kDa DNA binding glycoprotein from mature chicken erythrocytes that recognizes sequences spanning the transcription start sites of the H5 gene. cIBR was found to repress transcription from the H5 promoter in vitro and this effect could be relieved by mutations that lowered the affinity of the factor for its cognate sequence. cIBR inhibited transcription by interfering with assembly of the initiation complex, but it did not affect transcription from pre-assembled complexes. Consistent with this, binding of bacterially expressed human TFIID to the TATA element prevented subsequent binding of cIBR, although the opposite was not true. This, and the fact that cIBR had no effect when bound in a location upstream from the promoter, suggests that binding of cIBR to the start site region causes repression by direct interference with general transcription factors other than TFIID, possibly TFIIB. cIBR was found in mature and relatively late erythrocytes but not in early erythroid cells which actively transcribe the H5 gene; the transcriptionally active cells contain instead cIBF (chicken initiation binding factor). Purified cIBF is a non-glycosylated 68-70 kDa DNA binding protein(s) which also recognizes the region of transcription initiation of the H5 gene.
The TATA-binding protein is required for transcription by all three nuclear RNA polymerases in yeast cells.	Using temperature- and proteolytically sensitive derivatives to inactivate the function of the yeast TATA-binding protein (TBP) in vivo, we investigated the requirement of TBP for transcription by the three nuclear RNA polymerases in yeast cells. TBP is required for RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcription from promoters containing conventional TATA elements as well as functionally distinct promoters that lack TATA-like sequences. TBP is also required for transcription of the U6 snRNA and two different tRNA genes mediated by RNA pol III as well as transcription of ribosomal RNA mediated by RNA pol I. For all promoters tested, transcription decreases rapidly and specifically upon inactivation of TBP, strongly suggesting that TBP is directly involved in the transcription process. These observations suggest that TBP is required for transcription of all nuclearly encoded genes in yeast, although distinct molecular mechanisms are probably involved for the three RNA polymerase transcription machineries.
Variants of the TATA-binding protein can distinguish subsets of RNA polymerase I, II, and III promoters.	Transcription extracts prepared from yeast that are deficient in the TATA-binding protein (TBP or TFIID) are also impaired in specific promoter recognition by all three nuclear RNA polymerases (pol I, II, and III). Specific initiation can be rescued by the addition of purified recombinant TBP, demonstrating that pol I, II, and III all require this factor. A mutation of TBP has been identified that will function with pol I but not with pol II or III. Conversely, another mutation, which inactivates TATA element binding in vitro, will function with pol I and III promoters but is inactive for a pol II promoter. Thus, it is possible to identify TBP variants that will only function on different subsets of all nuclear promoters.
Anatomy of an unusual RNA polymerase II promoter containing a downstream TATA element.	The adenovirus type 2 IVa2 promoter lacks a conventional TATA element yet directs transcription from two closely spaced initiation sites. To define elements required for in vitro transcription of this promoter, IVa2 templates carrying 5' deletions or linker-scanning mutations were transcribed in HeLa whole-cell extracts and the transcripts were analyzed by primer extension. Mutation of the sequence centered on position -47, which is specifically recognized by a cellular factor, reduced the efficiency of IVa2 transcription two- to threefold, whereas mutation of the sequence centered on position -30 selectively impaired utilization of the minor in vivo initiation site. Utilization of the major in vivo site was decreased no more than fivefold by deletion of all sequences upstream of position -15. By contrast, mutation of the region from +13 to +19 or of the initiation region severely impaired IVa2 transcription. The sequence spanning the initiation sites was sufficient to direct accurate initiation by RNA polymerase II from the major in vivo site. Thus, the two initiation sites of the IVa2 promoter are specified by independent elements, and a downstream element is the primary determinant of efficient transcription from both of these sites. The downstream element identified by mutational analysis altered the TATA element-like sequence TATAGAAA lying at positions +21 to +14 in the coding strand. Transcription from the wild-type IVa2 promoter was severely inhibited when endogenous TFIID was inactivated by mild heat treatment. Exogenous human TATA-binding protein (TBP) synthesized in Escherichia coli restored specific IVa2 transcription from both initiation sites when added to such heat-treated extracts. Although efficient IVa2 transcription requires both the downstream TATA sequence and active TFIID, bacterially synthesized TBP also stimulated the low level of IVa2 transcription observed when the TATA sequence was mutated to a sequence that failed to bind TBP.
Specific interaction between the nonphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II and the TATA-binding protein.	Fractionation of a transcription-competent HeLa cell extract on a column containing one copy of the heptamer repeat (YSPTSPS) present in the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II resulted in the loss of transcriptional activity. Fractionation of the extracts on columns containing mutations of the heptamer repeat was without effect. Such transcriptionally inactive extracts regained their ability to specifically transcribe different class II promoters upon the addition of human TFIID, recombinant yeast TATA-binding protein (TBP), or proteins bound to the column. Fractionation of RNA polymerase II on columns containing human or yeast TBP resulted in the specific retention of the nonphosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II. The phosphorylated form of the enzyme was unable to interact with TBP. The specific interaction of RNA polymerase II with TBP was mediated by the CTD of RNA polymerase II.
A novel transcription factor reveals a functional link between the RNA polymerase II CTD and TFIID.	The RNA polymerase II large subunit carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) plays a role in transcription initiation, but its mechanism of action is not well understood. We have investigated the function of the SRB2 gene, which was isolated as a dominant suppressor of CTD truncation mutations. The allele specificity of this suppressor indicates that SRB2 and the CTD are involved in the same function. Indeed, cells lacking SRB2 and cells lacking a large portion of the CTD exhibit the same set of conditional growth phenotypes and exhibit very similar defects in gene expression in vivo. The SRB2 protein is a novel transcription factor that has an important role in basal and activated transcription in vitro and is essential for efficient establishment of the transcription initiation apparatus. Template commitment experiments suggest that SRB2 becomes physically associated with the transcription initiation complex. We find that SRB2 binds specifically to TFIID. As SRB2 and the RNA polymerase II CTD are involved in the same function, these results reveal a functional link between the CTD and the TATA-binding factor. This study implicates the CTD in recruitment of RNA polymerase II to the transcription initiation complex.
Kinetic analysis of yeast TFIID-TATA box complex formation suggests a multi-step pathway.	The eukaryotic transcription factor TFIID recognizes and binds a promoter sequence element called the TATA box. We have analyzed the interaction of yeast TFIID with the consensus TATA box sequence of the adenovirus major late promoter. To facilitate this detailed characterization, we developed a method for obtaining quantitative information from a gel retardation (bandshift) assay, allowing measurement of the rate and extent of TFIID-TATA box complex formation. Using this assay and DNase I protection assays, we determined that the association rate constant for TFIID binding to the major late promoter was too low to be consistent with a simple diffusion-limited association, suggesting that the binding proceeds by a multi-step pathway. Furthermore, we found that the slow rate of TFIID binding reported by other research groups was not the consequence of a rate-limiting conformational change, as has been previously suggested. Instead, we observed that the formation of a stable TFIID-TATA box complex was relatively rapid (complete in less than 1 min) at saturating concentrations of TFIID. We have proposed a two-step pathway consistent with the observed kinetics and have considered the possible contributions of each step to the overall rate of TFIID binding. This study lays the groundwork for a systematic characterization of the interaction of TFIID with additional TATA box sequences, including an experimental test of the possibility that different steps in the binding reaction are rate-limiting for different promoters.
Reduced binding of TFIID to transcriptionally compromised mutants of VP16.	Activator proteins that control transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II usually have two domains: one binds to DNA, and the other activates transcription. A particularly potent acidic activation domain at the C terminus of the herpes simplex virus protein VP16 binds directly and selectively to the human and yeast TATA box-binding factor TFIID. We have now investigated the biological significance of this in vitro interaction by using mutant forms of VP16. For changes at the critical phenylalanine residue at position 442 of VP16 there was a good correlation between transactivation activity in vivo and the binding of VP16 to TFIID in vitro. In contrast, mutants with reduced negative charge were more defective for binding than for activation.
Coactivators for a proline-rich activator purified from the multisubunit human TFIID complex.	The mechanisms of transcriptional activation directed by sequence-specific regulators is central to understanding gene regulation. Here, we report the isolation of coactivators responsible for mediating transcriptional activation by Gal4-Pro, a hybrid regulator containing the proline-rich activation domain of human CTF/NFI. Chromatographic studies indicate that endogenous human TFIID consists of a multisubunit complex containing the TATA-binding protein (TBP), coactivators, and other associated factors. A fraction containing the coactivator activity was separated from the endogenous TBP after disrupting the tightly associated complex with urea. The urea-purified TBP was active for basal level transcription but no longer could support activation by Gal4-Pro. However, when the two separated components were added together, activated levels of transcription were restored in the presence of Gal4-Pro. Immunoaffinity purification of the TFIID complex identifies several polypeptides specifically associated with the endogenous TBP, some or all of which function as coactivators when reconstituted with Gal4-Pro. The isolated coactivators also mediate activation by a chimeric glutamine-rich activator derived from Sp1 but not the Gal4-VP16 activator, suggesting distinct factor requirements for different types of transcriptional regulators.
Transcription factor access is mediated by accurately positioned nucleosomes on the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter.	A fragment of the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter was reconstituted from pure histones into a dinucleosome with uniquely positioned octamer cores. Core boundaries for the in vitro-assembled dinucleosome corresponded to the observed in vivo phasing pattern for long terminal repeat nucleosomes A and B. Nuclear factor 1 (NF1), a constituent of the MMTV transcription initiation complex, was excluded from the assembled dinucleosome, whereas the glucocorticoid receptor was able to bind. During transcription of MMTV in vivo, displacement of nucleosome B was necessary to permit assembly of the initiation complex. These results indicate that the nucleoprotein structure of the promoter can provide differential access to sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins and that active chromatin remodeling can occur during transcription activation.
Dissection of coactivator requirement at RNR3 reveals unexpected contributions from TFIID and SAGA.	The gene encoding ribonucleotide reductase 3 (RNR3) is strongly induced in response to DNA damage. Its expression is strictly dependent upon the TAF(II) subunits of TFIID, which are required for the recruitment of SWI/SNF and nucleosome remodeling. However, full activation of RNR3 also requires GCN5, the catalytic subunit of the SAGA histone acetyltransferase complex. Thus, RNR3 is dependent upon both TFIID and SAGA, two complexes that deliver TATA-binding protein (TBP) to promoters. Furthermore, unlike the majority of TFIID-dominated genes, RNR3 contains a consensus TATA-box, a feature of SAGA-regulated core promoters. Although a large fraction of the genome can be characterized as either TFIID- or SAGA-dominant, it is expected that many genes utilize both. The mechanism of activation and the relative contributions of SAGA and TFIID at genes regulated by both complexes have not been examined. Here we delineated the role of SAGA in the regulation of RNR3 and contrast it to that of TFIID. We find that SAGA components fulfill distinct functions in the regulation of RNR3. The core promoter of RNR3 is SAGA-dependent, and we provide evidence that SAGA, not TAF(II)s within TFIID, are largely responsible for TBP recruitment. This taken together with our previous work provides evidence that SAGA recruits TBP, whereas TFIID mediates chromatin remodeling. Thus, we described an unexpected shift in the division of labor between these two complexes and provide the first characterization of a gene that requires both SAGA and TFIID.
Transcription factor requirement for multiple rounds of initiation by human RNA polymerase II.	We have investigated conditions that allow multiple rounds of transcription initiation from the adenovirus major late promoter in an in vitro system derived from HeLa cell nuclear extracts. Templates containing guanine-free cassettes provided a direct assay for discriminating between reinitiated transcripts and transcripts generated by a first-round of transcription initiations. When reactions were reconstituted with the previously characterized class II transcription factors (TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIID, TFIIE/F), transcription by human RNA polymerase II from the adenovirus major late promoter was essentially restricted to a single round of initiations. Reinitiations at previously transcribed major late templates required an additional activity, designated reinitiation transcription factor (RTF). The RTF activity could be separated from the required transcription initiation factors. Semipurified human RTF also promoted transcription reinitiations at minimal promoters derived from the human c-myc, histone H4, and heat shock 70-kDa protein genes, indicating that the same reinitiation factor may be utilized by many, if not all, genes. The possible role of RTF in regulating the transcription rate of various class II genes is discussed.
Activation domains of stably bound GAL4 derivatives alleviate repression of promoters by nucleosomes.	GAL4 derivatives containing an activation domain alleviated repression of a promoter during nucleosome assembly. A GAL4 derivative lacking an activation domain stably bound the promoter during nucleosome assembly but was not sufficient to preserve promoter function. The activation domain of GAL4 derivatives was essential for preserving promoter function, and thus the transcriptional stimulatory activity attributable to these activation domains increased dramatically during nucleosome assembly. Furthermore, promoter-bound activation domains allowed the formation of preinitiation complexes after nucleosome assembly. Finally, GAL4 derivatives containing activation domains significantly stimulated transcription through bacterially produced yeast TFIID only from nucleosome-assembled templates. These data indicate that acidic activation domains stimulate transcription by enhancing the ability of basal transcription factors to compete with nucleosomes for occupancy of the promoter.
Negative supercoiling of DNA facilitates an interaction between transcription factor IID and the fibroin gene promoter.	Transcription of the fibroin gene can be reconstituted with partially purified components from HeLa cells. Transcription factors IIB, IID, and IIE and RNA polymerase II are required for accurate initiation of transcription. Linear and relaxed closed circular DNA show a similar level of template activity. However, transcription of closed circular DNA is stimulated when negative supercoils are introduced by the addition of DNA topoisomerase II and supercoiling factor purified from the posterior silk gland of Bombyx mori. Dissection of transcription into pre- and postinitiation steps by the use of Sarkosyl reveals that DNA supercoiling promotes formation of a preinitiation complex. Furthermore, order of addition experiments suggest that DNA supercoiling facilitates a functional binding of transcription factor IID to the promoter.
Repression of HIV-1 transcription by a cellular protein.	A cellular DNA binding protein, LBP-1, sequentially interacts in a concentration-dependent manner with two sites that surround the transcriptional initiation site of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) promoter. Although sequences in the downstream site (site I) were found to enhance transcription, purified LBP-1 specifically repressed transcription in vitro by binding to the upstream site (site II), which overlaps the TATA element. The binding of human TATA binding factor (TFIID) to the promoter before LBP-1 blocked repression, suggesting that repression resulted from an inhibition of TFIID binding to the TATA element. Furthermore, mutations that eliminated binding to site II both prevented repression in vitro and increased HIV-1 transcription in stably transformed cells. These findings suggest that a cellular factor regulates HIV-1 transcription in a manner that is characteristic of bacterial repressors and that this factor could be important in HIV-1 latency.
Heat shock-regulated transcription in vitro from a reconstituted chromatin template.	To investigate the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation of Drosophila heat shock genes we studied the activity of a heat shock promoter in vitro after reconstitution into chromatin. Increasing the duration of nucleosome assembly progressively inactivated a plasmid template when it was transcribed with extracts of either unshocked or heat-shocked Drosophila embryos, despite induction of the transcriptional activator heat shock factor. Addition of the general transcription factor IID (TFIID) before nucleosome assembly did not significantly relieve nucleosomal inhibition, but TFIID potentiated the promoter to be responsive to activation by heat shock factor in the heat shock transcription extract. The potentiation by TFIID could be related to the nucleosome-free, hypersensitive state of heat shock promoters previously observed in vivo before heat shock induction and may be necessitated by the need to expedite activation of heat shock genes in response to environmental stress.
The human CCG1 gene, essential for progression of the G1 phase, encodes a 210-kilodalton nuclear DNA-binding protein.	The human CCG1 gene complements tsBN462, a temperature-sensitive G1 mutant of the BHK21 cell line. The previously cloned cDNA turned out to be a truncated form of the actual CCG1 cDNA. The newly cloned CCG1 cDNA was 6.0 kb and encoded a protein with a molecular mass of 210 kDa. Using an antibody to a predicted peptide from the CCG1 protein, a protein with a molecular mass of over 200 kDa was identified in human, monkey, and hamster cell lines. In the newly defined C-terminal region, an acidic domain was found. It contained four consensus target sequences for casein kinase II and was phosphorylated by this enzyme in vitro. However, this C-terminal region was not required to complement tsBN462 mutation since the region encoding the C-terminal part was frequently missing in complemented clones derived by DNA-mediated gene transfer. CCG1 contains a sequence similar to the putative DNA-binding domain of HMG1 in addition to the previously detected amino acid sequences common in nuclear proteins, such as a proline cluster and a nuclear translocation signal. Consistent with these predictions, CCG1 was present in nuclei, possessed DNA-binding activity, and was eluted with similar concentrations of salt, 0.3 to 0.4 M NaCl either from isolated nuclei or from a DNA-cellulose column.
Interaction of CAP sequence site binding factor and transcription factor IID preceding and following binding to the adenovirus 2 major late promoter.	Interaction of cloned yeast, drosophila, and human transcription factor IID (yTFIID, dTFIID, and hTFIID, respectively) with the adenovirus 2 major late promoter (Ad2 MLP) confers a more limited pattern of DNase I protection than that obtained using highly purified native hTFIID (Hahn, S., Buratowski, S., Sharp, P. A. and Guarente, L. (1989) EMBO J. 8, 3379-3382; Van Dyke, M. W., and Sawadogo, M. (1990) Mol. Cell. Biol. 10, 3415-3420; Horikoshi, M., Wang, C.K., Fujii, H., Cromlish, J.A., Weil, P.A., and Roeder, R.G. (1989) Nature 341, 299-303; Peterson, M. G., Tanese, N., Pugh, B.F., and Tjian, R. (1990) Science 248, 1625-1630; Hoey, T., Dynlacht, B. D., Peterson, M.G., Pugh, B.F., and Tjian, R. (1990) Cell 61, 1179-1186). Since the mass of the cloned TFIIDs is considerably less than that of native hTFIID (27-38 kDa versus 120-140 kDa), it is considered likely that native hTFIID exists as a mixed heterodimer. We have recently identified, purified, and characterized a novel transcription factor that binds to the CAP site region (+1 to +23) of the Ad2 MLP. This CAP site binding factor, designated CBF, is required for optimal transcriptional activity. We now show that when bound to the Ad2 MLP, yTFIID and CBF interact to generate the extended pattern of DNase I protection conferred by native hTFIID. In addition, bound yTFIID and CBF interact such that the stability of the complex exceeds that of each factor bound alone. We also demonstrate the existence in nuclear extracts of a hTFIID and CBF heterodimer by the electrophoretic mobility shift analysis. CBF, therefore, may represent the first identified member of a large family of gene-specific TFIID-associated factors that are required for the regulated gene-specific expression of TFIID activity.
Requirement for acidic amino acid residues immediately N-terminal to the conserved domain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae TFIID.	TFIID binds to TATA boxes and initiates the assembly of general transcription factors and pol II on promoters. TFIID proteins from various species consist of a highly conserved carboxy terminal domain and very divergent amino terminal domains. We investigated the function of the non-conserved amino terminal domain (residues 1-60) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae TFIID (YIID, 240 residues) by testing the ability of a series of YIID amino terminal deletion mutants to complement a YIID deficient yeast strain. Mutants with deletions up to amino acid 48 restored the YIID deficient yeast strain to an apparently wild type phenotype. However, deletion up to position 57 or 60 produced yeast strains which formed extremely small colonies. Moreover, overexpression of YIID delta 2-57 or YIID delta 3-60 protein in the presence of wild type YIID resulted in a dominant-negative inhibition of growth. No difference between the basal transcriptional activity of wild type YIID and these amino terminal deletion mutants was observed in vitro. However, transcriptional activation in vivo of promoter-lacZ fusions showed that the YIID delta 2-57 deletion affects the ability of certain promoters (CUP1 and an HSP UAS-CYC1 promoter hybrid promoter) to respond to upstream factor stimulation. At least one inducible promoter, PHO5, was not affected by this deletion. The defect produced by YIID delta 2-57 was due to the deletion of several acidic residues present between residues 48 and 57. The results show that the conserved carboxy terminal domain of YIID is sufficient for cell viability. However, an acidic region just amino terminal to the conserved domain is required for normal growth and transcription control in most yeast strains.
TFIID is required for in vitro transcription of the human U6 gene by RNA polymerase III.	We present evidence that transcription factor TFIID, known for its central role in transcription by RNA polymerase II, is also involved in RNA polymerase III transcription of the human U6 snRNA gene. Recombinant human TFIID, expressed either via a vaccinia virus vector in HeLa cells or in Escherichia coli, affects U6 transcription in three different in vitro assays. First, TFIID-containing fractions stimulate U6 transcription in reactions containing rate-limiting amounts of HeLa nuclear extract. Second, TFIID addition relieves transcriptional exclusion between two competing U6 templates. Third, TFIID can replace one of two heat labile fractions essential for U6 transcription. Thus, at least one basal transcription factor is involved in transcription by two different RNA polymerases.
Isolation of the gene encoding the yeast TATA binding protein TFIID: a gene identical to the SPT15 suppressor of Ty element insertions.	We report the cloning of the gene that encodes the yeast TATA binding protein TFIID. TFIID contains 240 amino acids and has no obvious sequence similarity to other known proteins. TFIID was synthesized in vitro and in two separate assays behaved identically to the protein purified from yeast. TFIID bound to TATA elements from the adenovirus major late promoter (TATAAAA) and the yeast LEU2 promoter (TATTTAA) and formed protein-DNA complexes stable to electrophoresis only in the presence of TFIIA. In vitro-synthesized yeast TFIID also complemented a mammalian in vitro transcription system that lacked TFIID. Comparison of the yeast TFIID gene with the yeast SPT15 gene (suppressor of Ty element insertions) showed that the two genes are identical. This finding indicates that the yeast TFIID activity defined in vitro is responsible for specific transcription in vivo.
SPT15, the gene encoding the yeast TATA binding factor TFIID, is required for normal transcription initiation in vivo.	Mutations in the S. cerevisiae SPT15 gene were isolated as suppressors of insertion mutations that alter the transcription of adjacent genes. Molecular and genetic analysis of the cloned SPT15 gene has shown that it is the same as the gene that encodes the TATA binding factor TFIID. Analysis of spt15 mutants has demonstrated that alterations in TFIID can change transcription initiation in vivo. In addition, we demonstrate that TFIID is essential for growth and that spt15 mutations are pleiotropic, as spt15 mutants grow slowly and have defects in both mating and sporulation. Therefore, TFIID is an essential transcription factor in vivo, likely to be required for normal expression of a large number of genes.
Functional redundancy of promoter elements ensures efficient transcription of the human 7SK gene in vivo.	Deletion and mutation studies of the human 7SK gene transfected into HeLa cells have identified three functional regions of the promoter corresponding to the TATA box at -25, the proximal sequence element (PSE) between -49 and -65 and the distal sequence element (DSE) between -243 and -210. These elements show sequence homology to equivalent regions in other snRNA genes and are functionally analogous. Unlike the DSEs of many snRNA genes however, the 7SK DSE does not contain a consensus binding site for the transcription factor Oct-1 but rather, contains two non-consensus Oct-1 binding sites that can function independently of one another to enhance transcription. Unusually, the 7SK PSE can retain function even after extensive mutation and removal of the conserved TGACC of the PSE has little effect in the context of the whole promoter. However, the same mutation abolishes transcription in the absence of the DSE suggesting that protein/protein interactions between DSE and PSE binding factors can compensate for a mutant PSE. Mutation of the 7SK TATA box allows snRNA type transcription by RNA polymerase II to occur and this is enhanced by the DSE, indicating that both the DSE and the PSE can also function with pol II. In addition, mutation of the TATA box does not abolish pol III dependent transcription, suggesting that other sequence elements may also play a role in the determination of polymerase specificity. Although the human 7SK gene is transcribed efficiently in Xenopus oocytes, analysis of the 7SK wild-type gene and mutants in Xenopus oocytes gives significantly different results from the analysis in HeLa cells indicating that the recognition of functional elements is not the same in the two systems.
The viral oncoproteins Ad5 E1A, HPV16 E7 and SV40 TAg bind a common region of the TBP-associated factor-110.	A function shared by the adenovirus E1A, papillomavirus E7 and SV40 TAg oncoproteins is their ability to interfere with normal cell growth by interacting with members of the retinoblastoma protein family. In this study, we show that each of these oncoproteins can also bind to the 921 amino acid TBP-associated factor-110 (TAF-110). The significance of the binding is underscored by the observation that each oncoprotein binds to the same 77 amino acid carboxyl region of TAF-110. In the case of E1A and TAg, this finding is consistent with their abilities to stimulate transcription initiation, in part, through their known interactions with TBP. While it is not clear whether E7 can also activate promoters through protein:protein interactions with components of the transcription initiation complex, our demonstration that E7 can bind to TAF-110, as well as TBP, suggests that E7 may modulate the expression of specific promoters which could contribute to the pathogenesis of human papillomavirus.
Cell cycle-dependent regulation of RNA polymerase II basal transcription activity.	Regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II (pol II) in eukaryotic cells requires both basal and regulatory transcription factors. In this report we have investigated in vitro pol II basal transcription activity during the cell cycle by using nuclear extracts from synchronized HeLa cells. It is shown that pol II basal transcription activity is low in the S and G2 phases and high in early G1 phase and TFIID is the rate limiting component of pol II basal transcription activity during the cell cycle. Further analyses reveal that TFIID exists as a less active form in the S and G2 phases and nuclear extracts from S and G2 phase cells contain a heat-sensitive repressor(s) of TATA box binding protein (TBP). These results suggest that pol II basal transcription activity is regulated by a qualitative change in the TFIID complex, which could involve repression of TBP, during the cell cycle.
Disruption of reconstituted nucleosomes. The effect of particle concentration, MgCl2 and KCl concentration, the histone tails, and temperature.	We find that reconstituted nucleosome cores containing specific DNA sequences dissociate on dilution. This disruption of histone-DNA contacts leading to the release of free DNA is facilitated by the presence of the core histone tails, MgCl2 (5 mM), KCl (60 mM), and temperatures above 0 degree C. Under reaction conditions that are commonly used to assess trans-acting factor access to nucleosomal DNA, histone-DNA contacts are on the threshold of instability. We demonstrate how dilution of reconstituted nucleosomes containing a TATA box can facilitate TBP access to DNA.
A functional initiator element in the human beta-globin promoter.	Core promoters are defined by the presence of either a TATA box at approximately 30 base pairs upstream of the transcriptional start site (+1) and/or an initiator element centered around the +1 site. The prevalence, function, and significance of the various combinations of core promoter elements are as yet unclear. We describe here the identification and characterization of an initiator element in the TATA-containing human beta-globin promoter. Mutagenesis of the beta-globin initiator element at positions +2/+3 and +4/+5 abrogates transcription in a heterologous construct. Interestingly, we have found a beta-globin initiator binding activity in nuclear extracts whose presence or absence correlates with function of the beta-globin initiator. Accordingly, this binding activity may be part of the machinery required for beta-globin initiator-dependent transcription. Our analysis further describes a previously uncharacterized beta-thalassemia mutation at the +1 site as a mutation that decreases beta-globin initiator activity. Finally, consistent with other initiator elements, the beta-globin initiator requires a TFIID-containing fraction for in vitro activity. Thus, the human beta-globin promoter contains an initiator element whose function, as revealed by a beta-thalassemia mutation, is of physiological relevance.
Human TAFII250 interacts with RAP74: implications for RNA polymerase II initiation.	Accurate and regulated transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the assembly of an initiation complex involving multiple protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. A key event is binding of TFIID, a complex consisting of TBP and associated factors (TAFs) to the template DNA. The TAF subunits of TFIID carry out diverse functions critical for transcription, including specific contact with enhancer proteins and binding to core promoter DNA. However, the role of TAFs in RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription initiation and cross talk with other basal factors remains poorly characterized. Here, we report the specific interaction of TAFII250 with RAP74, an essential subunit of the basal transcription factor IIF. Using various in vitro binding assays we have mapped recognition interfaces between TAFII250 and RAP74. In vivo complementation of a temperature-sensitive TAFII250 cell line reveals that the RAP74 interaction is critical for cell viability. Because TFIIF is thought to be responsible for binding and recruiting RNA polymerase II, the ability of TAFII250 to interact selectively with RAP74 is likely to contribute a critical contact for the assembly of an active transcription complex.
HSF access to heat shock elements in vivo depends critically on promoter architecture defined by GAGA factor, TFIID, and RNA polymerase II binding sites.	Chromatin structure can modulate gene expression by limiting transcription factor access to gene promoters. We examined sequence elements of the Drosophila hsp70 promoter for their ability to facilitate the binding of the transcription factor, heat shock factor (HSF), to chromatin. We assayed HSF binding to various transgenic heat shock promoters in situ by measuring amounts of fluorescence at transgenic loci of polytene chromosomes that were stained with an HSF antibody. We found three promoter sequences that influence the access of HSF to its binding sites: the GAGA element, sequences surrounding the transcription start site, and a region in the leader of hsp70 where RNA polymerase II arrests during early elongation. The GAGA element has been shown previously to disrupt nucleosome structure. Because the two other critical regions include sequences that are required for stable binding of TFIID in vitro, we examined the in vivo occupancy of the TATA elements in the transgenic promoters. We found that TATA occupancy correlated with HSF binding for some promoters. However, in all cases HSF accessibility correlated with the presence of paused RNA polymerase II. We propose that a complex promoter architecture is established by multiple interdependent factors, including GAGA factor, TFIID, and RNA polymerase II, and that this structure is critical for HSF binding in vivo.
The sequence of a Xenopus laevis TFIID subunit reveals remarkable conservation among vertebrates.	A cDNA clone encoding a Xenopus laevis (Xl) homologue of human transcription factor IID (TFIID) subunit p80 was isolated and sequenced. The deduced 618-amino-acid (aa) sequence was compared to the homologous from human, mouse, rat and Drosophila melanogaster (Dm). A highly conserved region exists in the central region among these species. In contrast, the C-terminal region has significant homology among vertebrates, whereas the corresponding region of the Dm homologue shows poor homology.
Minimum essential region of CCG1/TAFII250 required for complementing the temperature-sensitive cell cycle mutants, tsBN462 and ts13 cells, of hamster BHK21 cells.	CCG1/TAFII250, the largest subunit of the TFIID complex, is mutated in ts cell cycle mutants of BHK21 cells, ts13 and tsBN462, which have a promoter-selective transcriptional defect. A series of deletion mutants of CCG1 cDNA were prepared and transfected into these mutants, in order to identify functional domains of CCG1 required for the complementation of ts 13/BN462 mutation. We determined the minimum size of CCG1:CCG1ME, essential for complementing the ts mutation, which possessed one proline cluster, an HMG1-like domain, and a nuclear localization signal, but which lacked the bromo domains and the acidic phosphorylation sites for casein kinase II common to transcriptional activators. It encodes a protein of 140 kDa. These characteristics of CCG1ME correspond to yeast TAFII145, the yeast homolog of human TAFII250. CCG1ME bound to TBP, creating its own TFIID complex different from that of the endogenous mutated CCG1 in ts+ transformants of tsBN462 cells.
X-ray crystallographic studies of eukaryotic transcription factors.	Our X-ray crystallographic work on eukaryotic transcription factors traverses the entire length of a typical class II nuclear gene promoter, including the TATA-box-binding protein, two b/HLH/Z promoter proximal binding factors (Max and USF), and an enhancer-binding factor (HNF-3 gamma). These high-resolution studies of specific protein/DNA interactions will be extended to include homologous proteins complexed with similar oligonucleotides and a systematic examination of the roles of individual amino acids and bases implicated in specific DNA binding. In the longer term, we will turn our attention to the myriad of protein/protein interactions occurring within TFIID and the PIC, and between the PIC and factors binding to promoter proximal and distal enhancer elements.
Structure of the human CCG1 gene: relationship between the exons/introns and functional domain/modules of the protein.	The human CCG1 gene, encoding CCG1/TAFII250/p250, was isolated by complementing tsBN462, a mutant BHK21 cell line that shows cell-cycle arrest at high temperature. Using the cDNA as a probe, the locations of exon-intron junctions were determined in the genomic DNA. Thirty-eight exons ranging from 68 to 219 bp in size were found. All the exon-intron junctions followed the GT-AG rule. Using a newly developed method, we performed a module analysis of the CCG1 protein. The functional domain previously predicted in CCG1 was further confirmed to be encoded in a single predicted module that is the minimal functional unit in the protein. The boundaries of the predicted modules show a close correlation to the intron/exon junction of CCG1. The entire gene, at least 110 kb long, has been recovered in a YAC, which provides a route to the further study of module function.
The CCG1/TAFII250 gene is mutated in thermosensitive G1 mutants of the BHK21 cell line derived from golden hamster.	The CCG1 cDNA encoding a general transcription factor, TAFII250, complements a thermosensitive (ts) cell cycle mutant, tsBN462, of the BHK21 cell line, which arrests in the G1 phase at the restrictive temperature. In order to clarify whether the CCG1 is mutated in tsBN462 cells or a suppressor of tsBN462 mutation, CCG1 cDNAs isolated from parental wild-type (wt) BHK21 and tsBN462 cell lines were sequenced. Comparison of the nucleotide (nt) sequences showed a single transition: G-->A in the second base of codon 690 of the tsBN462 CCG1 cDNA, resulting in a Gly690-->Asp change. The BHK CCG1 cDNA, but not the tsBN462 CCG1 cDNA, complemented the tsBN462 mutation, proving that the CCG1 is mutated in the tsBN462 cell line. Thus, the defect of general transcription factor, TAFII250, is suggested to cause a G1 arrest in the cell cycle.
Interaction between the N-terminal domain of the 230-kDa subunit and the TATA box-binding subunit of TFIID negatively regulates TATA-box binding.	Transcription initiation factor TFIID plays a central role in transcriptional regulation. Drosophila TFIID is a multimeric protein consisting of the TATA box-binding polypeptide (TBP) and a number of tightly associated polypeptides. Previously, the largest subunit of TFIID (p230) was cloned and demonstrated to inhibit the TATA-box binding of TBP in the absence of other subunits. Here we demonstrate that p230 contains at least two sites of interaction with TBP and that the N-terminal site mediates both strong physical interactions with TBP and inhibition of the TBP function. A detailed mutagenesis study shows that the inhibitory domain is indistinguishable from the strong TBP-binding domain, thus indicating that interaction of the p230 N-terminal region with TBP may directly control TATA-box binding.
Drosophila TAFII150: similarity to yeast gene TSM-1 and specific binding to core promoter DNA.	In Drosophila and human cells, the TATA binding protein (TBP) of the transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex is tightly associated with multiple subunits termed TBP-associated factors (TAFs) that are essential for mediating regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription. The Drosophila TAFII150 has now been molecularly cloned and biochemically characterized. The deduced primary amino acid sequence of dTAFII150 reveals a striking similarity to the essential yeast gene, TSM-1. Furthermore, like dTAFII150, the TSM-1 protein is found associated with the TBP in vivo, thus identifying the first yeast homolog of a TAF associated with TFIID. Both the product of TSM-1 and dTAFII150 bind directly to TBP and dTAFII250, demonstrating a functional similarity between human and yeast TAFs. Surprisingly, DNA binding studies indicate that purified recombinant dTAFII150 binds specifically to DNA sequences overlapping the start site of transcription. The data demonstrate that at least one of the TAFs is a sequence-specific DNA binding protein and that dTAFII150 together with TBP are responsible for TFIID interactions with an extended region of the core promoter.
Proline-rich activator CTF1 targets the TFIIB assembly step during transcriptional activation.	Activators can stimulate transcription through direct or indirect interactions with general initiation factors. We show here that the proline-rich activation domain of CTF1 (CCAAT-box-binding transcription factor 1) selectively interacts with TFIIB but not with the TATA-binding protein (TBP), whereas previous studies have shown that the acidic activation domain of viral VP16 interacts directly with both TBP and TFIIB. In addition, consistent with studies of acidic activation domains, we demonstrate that the activation domain of CTF1 facilitates the recruitment (or stabilization) of TFIIB within TBP-DNA complexes during preinitiation complex assembly. CTF1-enhanced TFIIB recruitment was observed in both human and yeast systems. The results indicate that the proline-rich activation domain enhances transcription, at least in part, through direct interactions with TFIIB and, with previous observations, suggest models involving either quantitative or qualitative changes in TFIIB-TFIID-promoter interactions that lead to increased utilization of downstream initiation factors.
Transcription factor IID in the Archaea: sequences in the Thermococcus celer genome would encode a product closely related to the TATA-binding protein of eukaryotes.	The first step in transcription initiation in eukaryotes is mediated by the TATA-binding protein, a subunit of the transcription factor IID complex. We have cloned and sequenced the gene for a presumptive homolog of this eukaryotic protein from Thermococcus celer, a member of the Archaea (formerly archaebacteria). The protein encoded by the archaeal gene is a tandem repeat of a conserved domain, corresponding to the repeated domain in its eukaryotic counterparts. Molecular phylogenetic analyses of the two halves of the repeat are consistent with the duplication occurring before the divergence of the archael and eukaryotic domains. In conjunction with previous observations of similarity in RNA polymerase subunit composition and sequences and the finding of a transcription factor IIB-like sequence in Pyrococcus woesei (a relative of T. celer) it appears that major features of the eukaryotic transcription apparatus were well-established before the origin of eukaryotic cellular organization. The divergence between the two halves of the archael protein is less than that between the halves of the individual eukaryotic sequences, indicating that the average rate of sequence change in the archael protein has been less than in its eukaryotic counterparts. To the extent that this lower rate applies to the genome as a whole, a clearer picture of the early genes (and gene families) that gave rise to present-day genomes is more apt to emerge from the study of sequences from the Archaea than from the corresponding sequences from eukaryotes.
Transcription from TATA-less promoters: dihydrofolate reductase as a model.	The promoters of many of the genes encoding the so-called "housekeeping" enzymes, oncogenes, growth factors and their receptors, and transcription factors, do not contain a canonical TATA box, which is known to direct transcription initiation. The mechanisms through which TATA-less promoters are regulated, and their transcription start sites selected, have begun to yield to investigation. Using the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene as a model, recent work on this group of genes has been reviewed. Control of transcription initiation and the role of "initiator" sequences, as well as their binding factors, in particular YY1 and E2F, are addressed. In the DHFR gene, neither the E2F site at the major initiation region nor the upstream Sp1 sites can alone produce wild-type initiation, despite the fact that each of these sites has certain properties of initiators. Many TATA-less genes are growth regulated, that is, transcription is increased in response to stimulation of cell proliferation. Although both Sp1 and E2F have been implicated in growth regulation, our recent studies suggest that Sp1 sites alone can confer a growth-dependent increase in transcription in the late G1 and early S phases of the cell cycle. The regulatory role of E2F, which binds to many TATA-less promoters and mediates viral stimulation of transcription, is also reviewed.
Organization and chromosomal localization of the gene (TAF2H) encoding the human TBP-associated factor II 30 (TAFII30).	The basal RNA polymerase II transcription factor, TFIID, is composed of the TATA binding protein (TBP) and 8-13 TBP-associated factors (TAFs) ranging from 250 to 17 kDa. The structure of the human gene encoding the 30-kDa subunit of TFIID, TAF2H, has been determined. The gene consists of five exons (ranging from 66 to 248 bp) and four introns (ranging from 83 to 211 bp). The transcription start site of the mRNA was mapped, and it shares a weak homology to the consensus of known initiator elements. Using in situ hybridization on human metaphase chromosomes, the TAF2H gene has been localized in the 11p15.2-p15.5 region of the human genome.
TAF-like function of SV40 large T antigen.	The simian virus 40 (SV40) early gene product large T antigen promiscuously activates simple promoters containing a TATA box or initiator element and at least one upstream transcription factor-binding site. Previous studies have suggested that promoter activation requires that large T antigen interacts with both the basal transcription complex and the upstream-bound factor. This mechanism of activation is similar to that proposed for TBP-associated factors (TAFs). We report genetic and biochemical evidence suggesting that large T antigen performs a TAF-like function. In the ts13 cell line, large T antigen can rescue the temperature-sensitive (ts) defect in TAF(II)250. In contrast, neither E1a, small t antigen, nor mutants of large T antigen defective in transcriptional activation were able to rescue the ts defect. These data suggest that transcriptional activation by large T antigen is attributable, at least in part, to an ability to augment or replace a function of TAF(II)250. In addition, we show that large T antigen interacts in vitro with the Drosophila TAFs (dTAFs) dTAF(II)150, dTAF(II)110, and dTAF(II)40, as well as TBP. The relevance of these in vitro results was established in coimmunoprecipitation experiments using extracts of SV40-infected alpha3 cells that express an epitope-tagged TBP. Large T antigen was coimmunoprecipitated by antibodies to epitope-tagged TBP, endogenous TBP, hTAF(II)100, hTAF(II)130, and hTAF(II)250, under conditions where holo-TFIID would be precipitated. In addition, large T antigen copurified and coimmunoprecipitated with phosphocellulose-purified TFIID from SV40-infected alpha3 cells. Large T antigen also coprecipitated with anti-TBP antibody from extracts of ts13 cells expressing wild-type large T antigen under conditions where the ts defect in TAF(II)250 was rescued. In contrast, a transactivation mutant of large T antigen, which was unable to rescue the ts defect, failed to coprecipitate. We conclude from these data that transcriptional activation of many promoters by large T antigen results from its performing a TAF-like function in a complex with TFIID.
Isolation and characterization of TAF25, an essential yeast gene that encodes an RNA polymerase II-specific TATA-binding protein-associated factor.	We describe the cloning and analysis of TAF25, a previously uncharacterized yeast gene that encodes a yeast TATA-binding protein-associated factor or yTAF of Mr = 25,000. The gene encoding yTAF25 is a single copy essential gene, and the protein sequence deduced from TAF25 exhibits sequence similarity to a metazoan hTAFII. The results from immunological studies confirm that yTAF25 is a subunit of a large multiprotein TATA-binding protein-yeast TATA-binding protein-associated factor complex that contains a subset of the total number of the yTAFs present in yeast cell extracts. Both genetic and biochemical analyses demonstrate that yTAF25 can interact directly with itself. Transcriptional data show that the activity of the multiprotein complex containing yTAF25 is RNA polymerase II-specific, thus indicating that TAF25 encodes a bona fide yeast RNA polymerase II TAF. Hence the protein encoded by TAF25 has been termed yTAFII25.
Cloning and characterization of human TAF20/15. Multiple interactions suggest a central role in TFIID complex formation.	TFIID is a multiprotein complex that plays a central role in the initiation and regulation of class II transcription. Transcription factor IID (TFIID) nucleates transcription initiation complex formation by direct core promoter binding and mediates the action of transcriptional activators, in part via direct interactions with them. Molecular studies of the TFIID complex have identified multiple subunits whose potential interactions can be recapitulated in vitro with recombinant polypeptides. Here we report the cloning of human TATA box binding protein (TBP)-associated factor 20 (TAF20) and the consequent identification of an additional, related TFIID subunit, human TAF15 (hTAF15). Multiple TAF20/15 interactions have been detected within native TFIID preparations and further analyzed with recombinant subunits. Along with the demonstration of a high affinity association between TAF20/15 and TBP, the present results suggest that hTAF20/15 may complement hTAF250 in directing the association of TAFs with TBP to form a TFIID complex. Finally, we present detailed mutagenesis studies that reveal multiple, distinct interaction surfaces on the presumed globular domain of hTAF20/15 and may be used, in conjunction with structural data, to model the architecture of the TFIID multiprotein complex.
TFG/TAF30/ANC1, a component of the yeast SWI/SNF complex that is similar to the leukemogenic proteins ENL and AF-9.	The SWI1/ADR6, SWI2/SNF2, SWI3, SNF5, and SNF6 gene products are all required for proper transcriptional control of many genes in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Genetic studies indicated that these gene products might form a multiprotein SWI/SNF complex important for chromatin transitions preceding transcription from RNA polymerase II promoters. Biochemical studies identified a SWI/SNF complex containing these and at least six additional polypeptides. Here we show that the 29-kDa component of the SWI/SNF complex is identical to TFG3/TAF30/ANC1. Thus, a component of the SWI/SNF complex is also a member of the TFIIF and TFIID transcription complexes. TFG3 interacted with the SNF5 component of the SWI/SNF complex in protein interaction blots. TFG3 is significantly similar to ENL and AF-9, two proteins implicated in human acute leukemia. These results suggest that ENL and AF-9 proteins interact with the SNF5 component of the human SWI/SNF complex and raise the possibility that the SWI/SNF complex is involved in acute leukemia.
Human TAF(II28) promotes transcriptional stimulation by activation function 2 of the retinoid X receptors.	Transcriptional activation in vitro involves direct interactions of transactivators with the TATA binding protein (TBP) and the TBP-associated factors (TAF(II)s) which constitute the TFIID complex. However, the role of TAF(II)s in transcriptional regulation in mammalian cells has not been addressed. We show that activation function 2 of the retinoid X receptors (RXR AF-2) does not activate transcription from a minimal promoter in Cos cells. However, coexpression of human (h) TAF(II)28 promotes a strong ligand-dependent activity of the RXR AF-2 on a minimal promoter and potentiates the ability of the RXRalpha AF-2 to activate transcription from a complex promoter. The expression of hTAF(II)28 also potentiated transactivation by several nuclear receptors, notably the oestrogen and vitamin D3 receptors (ER and VDR), whereas other classes of activator were not affected. The effect of hTAFII(28) on RXR AF-2 activities did not appear to require direct RXR-TAFII(28) interactions, but correlated with the ability of hTAFII(28) to interact with TBP. In contrast to Cos cells, the RXR AF-2s had differential abilities to activate transcription from a minimal promoter in HeLa cells, and a lesser increase in their activity was observed upon hTAFII28 coexpression. Moreover, coexpression of hTAFII(28) did not increase but rather repressed activation by the ER and VDR AF-2s in HeLa cells. In agreement with these data, showing that TAF(II)28 is limiting in the AF-2 activation pathway in Cos cells, TAF(II)28 is selectively depleted in Cos cell TFIID.
Cloning of the gene encoding the mitochondrial adenine nucleotide carrier of Schizosaccharomyces pombe by functional complementation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We describe the isolation and sequencing of both cDNA and genomic clones encoding the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (Anc) of Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Sp). The cDNA clone was isolated from a cDNA library of this fission yeast by complementation of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc) strain defective in adenine nucleotide carrier. The predicted amino acid (aa) sequence (322 aa) shared similarity with the known Anc sequences. It is more closely related to Neurospora crassa (Nc) Anc than to ScAnc1, 2, or 3 or Kluyveromyces lactis (Kl) Anc. Hybridization experiments with ordered libraries of Sp genomic DNA led to the physical mapping (chromosome II, NotI-B region) and the isolation of the Sp ANC1 gene. We also conclude that a single-copy gene encodes the Sp Anc.
Characterization of the interaction between the acidic activation domain of VP16 and the RNA polymerase II initiation factor TFIIB.	Contact between a transcriptional activator and one or more components of the RNA polymerase II transcription initiation machinery is generally believed important for activators to function. Several different molecular targets have been suggested for direct contact by herpes simplex virus virion protein VP16, including the general initiation factor TFIIB. In this report we have used several strategies to critically assess this interaction between VP16 and TFIIB. Affinity columns of VP16 bound TFIIB activity from HeLa cell extracts and the binding was reduced by mutations in the activation domain of VP16. In assays of direct binding, VP16 bound recombinant human TFIIB but not Drosophila or yeast TFIIB. Unlike binding from an extract, however, we found that the interaction between VP16 and recombinant human TFIIB was not affected by mutations in VP16 that reduce transactivation. Point mutations within human TFIIB that reduce transactivation by VP16 have been shown to reduce VP16 binding, but we show here that these same mutations critically affect both the important TBP-TFIIB interaction and the ability of TFIIB to support activator-independent basal transcription in vitro. Taken together our results suggest more evidence is needed to support the notion that TFIIB is a functionally important target for the activator VP16.
HIV-1 tat binds TAFII250 and represses TAFII250-dependent transcription of major histocompatibility class I genes.	HIV Tat, a transactivator of viral transcription, represses transcription of major histocompatibility (MHC) class I genes. Repression depends exclusively on the C-terminal domain of Tat, although the mechanism of this repression has not been known. We now show that repression results from the interaction of Tat with the TAFII250 component of the general transcription factor, TFIID. The C-terminal domain of Tat binds to a site on TAFII250 that overlaps the histone acetyl transferase domain, inhibiting TAFII250 histone acetyl transferase activity. Furthermore, promoters repressed by Tat, including the MHC class I promoter, are dependent on TAFII250 whereas those that are not repressed by Tat, such as SV40 and MuLV promoters, are independent of functional TAFII250. Thus, Tat repression of MHC class I transcription would be one mechanism by which HIV avoids immune surveillance.
Chromatin, TAFs, and a novel multiprotein coactivator are required for synergistic activation by Sp1 and SREBP-1a in vitro.	The promoter selectivity factor Sp1 often cooperates with other enhancer-binding proteins to activate transcription. To study the molecular underpinnings of these regulatory events, we have reconstituted in vitro the synergy observed in vivo between Sp1 and the sterol-regulated factor SREBP-1a at the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) promoter. Using a highly purified human transcription system, we found that chromatin, TAFs, and a novel SREBP-binding coactivator activity, which includes CBP, are all required to mediate full synergistic activation by Sp1 and SREBP-1a. The SREBP-binding domain of CBP inhibits activation by SREBP-1a and Sp1 in a dominant-negative fashion that is both chromatin- and activator-specific. Whereas recombinant CBP alone is not sufficient to mediate activation, a human cellular fraction containing CBP can support high levels of chromatin-dependent synergistic activation. Purification of this activity to near homogeneity resulted in the identification of a multiprotein coactivator, including CBP, that selectively binds to the SREBP-1a activation domain and is capable of mediating high levels of synergistic activation by SREBP/Sp1 on chromatin templates. The development of a reconstituted chromatin transcription system has allowed us to isolate a novel coactivator that is recruited by the SREBP-1a activation domain and that functions in concert with TFIID to coordinate the action of multiple activators at complex promoters in the context of chromatin.
Novel cofactors and TFIIA mediate functional core promoter selectivity by the human TAFII150-containing TFIID complex.	TATA-binding protein-associated factors (TAFIIs) within TFIID control differential gene transcription through interactions with both activators and core promoter elements. In particular, TAFII150 contributes to initiator-dependent transcription through an unknown mechanism. Here, we address whether TAFIIs within TFIID are sufficient, in conjunction with highly purified general transcription factors (GTFs), for differential core promoter-dependent transcription by RNA polymerase II and whether additional cofactors are required. We identify the human homologue of Drosophila TAFII150 through cognate cDNA cloning and show that it is a tightly associated component of human TFIID. More importantly, we demonstrate that the human TAFII150-containing TFIID complex is not sufficient, in the context of all purified GTFs and RNA polymerase II, to mediate transcription synergism between TATA and initiator elements and initiator-directed transcription from a TAFII-dependent TATA-less promoter. Therefore, TAFII-promoter interactions are not sufficient for the productive core promoter-selective functions of TFIID. Consistent with this finding, we have partially purified novel cofactor activities (TICs) that potentiate the TAFII-mediated synergism between TATA and initiator elements (TIC-1) and TAFII-dependent transcription from TATA-less promoters (TIC-2 and -3). Furthermore, we demonstrate an essential function for TFIIA in TIC- and TAFII-dependent basal transcription from a TATA-less promoter. Our results reveal a parallel between the basal transcription activity of TAFIIs through core promoter elements and TAFII-dependent activator function.
Ku70/Ku80 protein complex inhibits the binding of nucleotide excision repair proteins on linear DNA in vitro.	We have previously reported that the incision efficiency of the nucleotide excision repair (NER) reaction measured in vitro with cell-free human protein extracts was reduced by up to 80% on a linearized damaged plasmid DNA substrate when compared to supercoiled damaged DNA. The inhibition stemed from the presence of the DNA-end binding Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer which is the regulatory subunit of the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK). Here, the origin of the repair inhibition was assessed by a new in vitro assay in which circular or linear plasmid DNA, damaged or undamaged, was quantitatively adsorbed on sensitized microplate wells. The binding of two NER proteins, XPA and p62-TFIIH, indispensable for the incision step of the reaction, was quantified either directly in an ELISA-like reaction in the wells with specific antibodies or in Western blotting experiments on the DNA-bound fraction. We report a dramatic inhibition of XPA and p62-TFIIH association with UVC photoproducts on linear DNA. XPA and p62-TFIIH binding to DNA damage was regained when the reaction was performed with extracts lacking Ku activity (extracts from xrs6 rodent cells) whereas addition of purified human Ku complex to these extracts restored the inhibition. Despite the fact that DNA-PK was active during the NER reaction, the mechanism of inhibition relied on the sole Ku complex, since mutant protein extracts lacking the catalytic DNA-PK subunit (extracts from the human M059J glioma cells) exhibited a strong binding inhibition of XPA and p62-TFIIH proteins on linear damaged DNA, identical to the inhibition observed with the DNA-PK+ control extracts (from M059K cells).
Inhibition of host RNA polymerase II-dependent transcription by vesicular stomatitis virus results from inactivation of TFIID.	During infection with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), host-cell mRNA synthesis is inhibited due to shut off of host-cell transcription. The transcriptional activity of nuclear extracts prepared from VSV-infected cells was compared to the activity of nuclear extracts from uninfected cells. An exogenous DNA template was used which contained an adenovirus major late promoter (AdMLP) but lacked upstream activating sequences, so that only basal transcription activity was assayed in these experiments. AdMLP-initiated transcription was decreased by 75% in nuclear extracts from infected cells as early as 3 h p.i. and by >90% by 6 h p.i. Mixing nuclear extracts from uninfected and VSV-infected cells revealed that the inhibition was caused by lack of an active form of a host factor involved in basal transcription rather than by the presence of an excess of inhibitory factor. To determine which transcription factors were lacking from nuclear extracts of infected cells, host transcription initiation factors isolated from uninfected cells by ion-exchange chromatography were added separately to nuclear extracts inactivated by VSV infection. A phosphocellulose column fraction from uninfected cells eluted with 0. 8 M KCl, which contained transcription factor IID (TFIID), overcame the inhibition. The corresponding fraction from infected cells had no detectable activity in a TFIID-dependent in vitro transcription assay. TATA-binding protein (TBP) is the DNA-binding subunit of TFIID and has been shown previously to substitute for TFIID in basal transcription. Purified recombinant TBP also reconstituted the transcription activity of nuclear extracts from infected cells, supporting the idea that TFIID is the target of virus-induced inhibition. Western blot analysis showed that the level of TBP in nuclear extracts or in the 0.8 M KCl column fraction was not changed by VSV infection. These results indicated that VSV infection leads to an inhibition of host transcription by inactivation of TFIID rather than reduction in the level of TFIID.
Broad, but not universal, transcriptional requirement for yTAFII17, a histone H3-like TAFII present in TFIID and SAGA.	The RNA polymerase II general transcription factor TFIID is a multisubunit complex comprising TATA box-binding protein (TBP) and associated factors (TAFIIs). Experiments in yeast have shown that although most TAFIIs are required for viability, many genes are transcribed normally upon inactivation of individual and even multiple yTAFIIs. Here we analyze yTAFII17, recently found to be present in both the SAGA HAT complex as well as TFIID. Functional inactivation of yTAFII17 by temperature-sensitive mutation or depletion results in loss of transcription of many, but not all, genes. The upstream activating sequence (UAS), which contains the activator binding sites, is the region that renders a gene yTAFII17 dependent. In conjunction with previous studies, our results reveal that different TAFIIs have remarkably distinct properties.
Histone-like TAFs are essential for transcription in vivo.	In yeast, the TBP-associated factors (TAFs) Taf17, Taf60, and Taf61(68) resemble histones H3, H4, and H2B, respectively. To analyze their roles in vivo, conditional alleles were isolated by mutagenizing their histone homology domains. Conditional alleles of TAF17 or TAF60 can be specifically suppressed by overexpression of any of the other histone-like TAFs. This and other genetic evidence supports the model of a histone octamer-like structure within TFIID. Shifting strains carrying the conditional TAF alleles to non-permissive conditions results in degradation of TFIID components and the rapid loss of mRNA production. Therefore, in contrast to previous studies in yeast that found only limited roles for TAFs in transcription, we find that the histone-like TAFs are generally required for in vivo transcription.
The histone H3-like TAF is broadly required for transcription in yeast.	In yeast cells, independent depletion of TAFs (130, 67, 40, and 19) found specifically in TFIID results in selective effects on transcription, including a common effect on his3 core promoter function. In contrast, depletion of TAF17, which is also present in the SAGA histone acetylase complex, causes a decrease in transcription of most genes. However, TAF17-depleted cells maintain Ace1-dependent activation, and they induce de novo activation by heat shock factor in a manner predominantly associated with the activator, not the core promoter. Thus, TAF17 is broadly, but not universally, required for transcription in yeast, TAF17 depletion and TAF130 depletion each disrupt TFIID integrity yet cause different transcriptional consequences, suggesting that the widespread influence of TAF17 might not be due solely to its function in TFIID.
yTAFII61 has a general role in RNA polymerase II transcription and is required by Gcn4p to recruit the SAGA coactivator complex.	We obtained a recessive insertion mutation in the gene encoding yeast TBP-associated factor yTAFII61/68 that impairs Gcn4p-independent and Gcn4p-activated HIS3 transcription. This mutation also reduces transcription of seven other class II genes, thus indicating a broad role for this yTAFII in RNA polymerase II transcription. The Gcn4p activation domain interacts with multiple components of the SAGA complex in cell extracts, including the yTAFII proteins associated with SAGA, but not with two yTAFIIs restricted to TFIID. The taf61-1 mutation impairs binding of Gcn4p to SAGA/yTAFII subunits but not to components of holoenzyme mediator. Our results provide strong evidence that recruitment of SAGA, in addition to holoenzyme, is crucial for activation by Gcn4p in vivo and that yTAFII61 plays a key role in this process.
Dissecting the regulatory circuitry of a eukaryotic genome.	Genome-wide expression analysis was used to identify genes whose expression depends on the functions of key components of the transcription initiation machinery in yeast. Components of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme, the general transcription factor TFIID, and the SAGA chromatin modification complex were found to have roles in expression of distinct sets of genes. The results reveal an unanticipated level of regulation which is superimposed on that due to gene-specific transcription factors, a novel mechanism for coordinate regulation of specific sets of genes when cells encounter limiting nutrients, and evidence that the ultimate targets of signal transduction pathways can be identified within the initiation apparatus.
Immunoaffinity purification and functional characterization of human transcription factor IIH and RNA polymerase II from clonal cell lines that conditionally express epitope-tagged subunits of the multiprotein complexes.	Purification of multiprotein complexes such as transcription factor (TF) IIH and RNA polymerase II (pol II) has been a tedious task by conventional chromatography. To facilitate the purification, we have developed an effective scheme that allows human TFIIH and pol II to be isolated from HeLa-derived cell lines that conditionally express the FLAG-tagged p62 subunit of human TFIIH and the RPB9 subunit of human pol II, respectively. An approximate 2000-fold enrichment of FLAG-tagged TFIIH and a 1000-fold enhancement of total pol II are achieved by a one-step immunoaffinity purification. The purified complexes are functional in mediating basal and activated transcription, regardless of whether TATA-binding protein or TFIID is used as the TATA-binding factor. Interestingly, repression of basal transcription by the positive cofactor PC4 is alleviated by increasing amounts of TFIID, TFIIH, and pol II holoenzyme, suggesting that phosphorylation of PC4 by these proteins may cause a conformational change in the structure of PC4 that allows for preinitiation complex formation and initiation of transcription. Furthermore, pol II complexes with different phosphorylation states on the carboxyl-terminal domain of the largest subunit are selectively purified from the inducible pol II cell line, making it possible to dissect the role of carboxyl-terminal domain phosphorylation in the transcription process in a highly defined in vitro transcription system.
Mitotic silencing of human rRNA synthesis: inactivation of the promoter selectivity factor SL1 by cdc2/cyclin B-mediated phosphorylation.	We have used a reconstituted cell-free transcription system to investigate the molecular basis of mitotic repression of RNA polymerase I (pol I) transcription. We demonstrate that SL1, the TBP-containing promoter-binding factor, is inactivated by cdc2/cyclin B-directed phosphorylation, and reactivated by dephosphorylation. Transcriptional inactivation in vitro is accompanied by phosphorylation of two subunits, e.g. TBP and hTAFI110. To distinguish whether transcriptional repression is due to phosphorylation of TBP, hTAFI110 or both, SL1 was purified from two HeLa cell lines that express either full-length or the core domain of TBP only. Both TBP-TAFI complexes exhibit similar activity and both are repressed at mitosis, indicating that the variable N-terminal domain which contains multiple target sites for cdc2/cyclin B phosphorylation is dispensable for mitotic repression. Protein-protein interaction studies reveal that mitotic phosphorylation impairs the interaction of SL1 with UBF. The results suggest that phosphorylation of SL1 is used as a molecular switch to prevent pre-initiation complex formation and to shut down rDNA transcription at mitosis.
