Three novel deletions in the alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase gene of three patients with type 1 hyperoxaluria.	We describe three novel deletions in the human AGT gene in three patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1, an autosomal recessive disease resulting from a deficiency of the liver peroxisomal enzyme, alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT; EC 2.6.1.44). A deletion of 4 nucleotides in the exon 6/intron 6 splice junction (679-IVS6+2delAAgt) is expected to cause missplicing. It would also code for a K227E missense alteration in any mRNA successfully spliced. A 2-bp deletion in exon 11 (1125-1126del CG, cDNA) results in a frameshift. A deletion of at least 5-6 kb, EX1 EX5del, spanned exons 1-5 and contiguous upstream sequence. All three deletions are heterozygous with previously documented missense mutations; the intron 6 deletion with F152I, the exon 11 deletion with G82E, and EX1 EX5del with the common mistargeting mutation, G170R.
Oral administration of orthovanadate and Trigonella foenum graecum seed power restore the activities of mitochondrial enzymes in tissues of alloxan-induced diabetic rats.	The effect of oral administration of sodium orthovanadate (SOV) and Trigonella foenum graecum seed powder (TSP), a medicinal plant used extensively in Asia, on the mitochondrial metabolism in the alloxan diabetic rats has been investigated. Rats were injected with alloxan monohydrate (20 mg/100 g body wt) or vehicle (Na-acetate buffer), the former were treated with either 2 IU insulin i.p., 0.6 mg/ml SOV ad libitum, 5% TSP ad libitum, and a combination of 0.2% SOV and 5% TSP ad libitum for 21 days. Selected rate-limiting enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, hydrogen shuttle system, ketone body metabolism, amino acid metabolism and urea cycle were measured in the mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions of liver, kidney and brain tissues of the experimental rats. Majority of the mitochondrial enzymes in the tissues of the diabetic rats had significantly higher activities compared to the control rats. Similarly, the activities of mitochondrial and cytosolic aminotransferases and arginase were significantly higher in liver and kidney tissues of the diabetic rats. The separate administrations of SOV and TSP to diabetic rats were able to restore the activities of these enzymes to control values. The lower dose of SOV (0.2%) administered in combination with TSP to diabetic rats lowered the enzyme activities more significantly than when given in a higher dose (0.6%) separately. This is the first report of the effective combined action of oral SOV and TSP in ameliorating the altered mitochondrial enzyme activities during experimental type-1 diabetes. Our novel combined oral administration of SOV and TSP to diabetic rats thus conclusively proves as a possible method to minimize potential vanadate toxicity without compromising its positive effects in the therapy of experimental type-1 diabetes.
Prenatal corticosteroid therapy for elevated liver enzyme/low platelet count syndrome: a case report.	Early preterm onset of elevated liver enzymes/low platelet count (ELLP) syndrome poses a significant management problem.
A new syndrome: ascites, hyperbilirubinemia, and hypoalbuminemia after biochemical modulation of fluorouracil with N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA)	To report a new syndrome of ascites, hyperbilirubinemia, and hypoalbuminemia after treatment with N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA) and fluorouracil for metastatic colorectal cancer.
Effect of pyrazole on the activity of acetaldehyde-producing enzymes in the liver]	Influence of pyrazole on the endogenous ethanol level and activities of acetaldehyde-producing enzymes was investigated. Drastic enhancement of the endogenous ethanol level in the blood and tissues was accompanied by an insignificant increase of phosphoethanolamine lyase activity, while activity of threonine aldolase and pyruvate dehydrogenase was unchanged.
