Generation of inner ear hair cell immunophenotypes from neurospheres obtained from fetal rat central nervous system in vitro.	Neural stem cells are suggested to possess a highly plastic ability to differentiate into several specific cell types, not only neuronal lineages but also other germ layer tissue-specific cell lineages. To examine whether hair cell immunophenotypes could be derived from the central nervous system (CNS), we established cell cultures from embryonic day 16.5 fetal rat brain tissues, and analyzed changes in immunohistochemical features of the CNS cell cultures by induction of differentiation. The results of this study showed that neural progenitors obtained from fetal rat CNS generated hair cell immunophenotypes with expression of both epitopes of hair cell marker proteins Brn-3c and myosin VIIa in vitro. These findings indicate that immature neural progenitors possess the potential to differentiate into hair cell phenotypes. Immature neural progenitors may be useful as materials for cell transplantation therapy for replacement of damaged inner ear hair cells.
Chromosomal localization and sequences of the murine Brn-3 family of developmental control genes.	The POU proteins BRN-3a, -3b and -3c are transcription factors encoded by separate genes that are differentially expressed during neural development. Comparison of genomic and cDNA sequences revealed similar exon/intron structures for Brn-3a and -3c genes, whereas the Brn-3b gene appeared to contain an intronless coding region. Fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments with mouse chromosomes showed that Brn-3a maps to mouse chromosome 14E1-3, Brn-3b to XF1-5 and Brn-3c to 18B3-E1.
Mouse Brn-3 family of POU transcription factors: a new aminoterminal domain is crucial for the oncogenic activity of Brn-3a.	The class IV POU domain genes Brn-3a, -b and -c are differentially expressed during neural development and at least Brn-3a also in neuroectodermal tumors. In contrast to Brn-3b and Brn-3c, Brn-3a encodes two protein variants: Brn-3a(l) and Brn-3a(s). Brn-3a(s) lacks 84 aminoterminal residues but is otherwise identical to Brn-3a(l). Outside the well conserved carboxyterminal POU domains all three Brn-3 proteins (-a, -b and -c) diverge until the aminoterminal end where a new domain of about 100 amino acids is identified. This domain is conserved only between Brn-3 proteins and other class IV POU factors. Brn-3a(l) that contains the complete domain but not Brn-3a(s) that lacks 84 amino acids of it is able to tumorigenically transform primary fibroblasts. Brn-3b that lacks 40 amino acids of the new domain does itself not transform, but abolishes the oncogenic potential of Brn-3a(l) when transfected together. This demonstrates not only that Brn3-a(l) is a proto-oncogene and may well be causally involved in the generation of neuroectodermal tumors but also suggests that the intactness of the new aminoterminal domain described here is crucial for oncogenic activity. In addition, our data indicate that Brn-3b acts as an inhibitor of Brn-3a(l) activity.
