Patterns of corticosteroid-binding globulin and the free cortisol index during septic shock and multitrauma.	To study the time course of corticosteroid binding-globulin (CBG) level and the free cortisol index (FCI) in comparison with total cortisol and ACTH concentrations during acute and prolonged critical illness.
Developing 13C NMR quantitative spectrometric data-activity relationship (QSDAR) models of steroid binding to the corticosteroid binding globulin.	We have developed four quantitative spectrometric data-activity relationship (QSDAR) models for 30 steroids binding to corticosteroid binding globulin, based on comparative spectral analysis (CoSA) of simulated 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) data. A QSDAR model based on 3 spectral bins had an explained variance (r2) of 0.80 and a cross-validated variance (q2) of 0.78. Another QSDAR model using the 3 atoms from the comparative structurally assigned spectral analysis (CoSASA) of simulated 13C NMR on a steroid backbone template gave an explained variance (r2) of 0.80 and a cross-validated variance (q2) of 0.73. Positions 3 and 14 from the steroid backbone template have correlations with the relative binding activity to corticosteroid binding globulin that are greater than 0.52. The explained correlation and cross-validated correlation of these QSDAR models are as good as previously published quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR), self-organizing map (SOM) and electrotopological state (E-state) models. One reason that the cross-validated variance of QSDAR models were as good as the other models is that simulated 13C NMR spectral data are more accurate than the errors introduced by the assumptions and approximations used in calculated electrostatic potentials, E-states, HE-states, and the molecular alignment process of QSAR modeling. The QSDAR models developed provide a rapid, simple way to predict the binding activity of a steroid to corticosteroid binding globulin.
Effects of long-term voluntary exercise on the mouse hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis.	We studied the effects of long-term (i.e. 4 wk) voluntary exercise on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis in male mice. Voluntary exercise was provided by giving mice access to a running wheel, in which they indeed ran for about 4 km/d. Exercising mice showed similar body weights as control animals but presented less abdominal fat, lighter thymuses, and heavier adrenal glands. Exercise resulted in asymmetric structural changes in the adrenal glands. Whereas control mice had larger left than right adrenals, this condition was abolished in exercising animals, mainly because of enlargement of the right adrenal cortex. Tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression in the adrenal medullas of exercising mice was increased. In exercising mice, early-morning baseline plasma ACTH levels were decreased, whereas plasma corticosterone levels at the start of the dark phase were twice as high as those in control animals. To forced swimming and restraint stress, exercising mice responded with higher corticosterone levels than those of the control animals but with similar ACTH levels. However, if exposed to a novel environment, then exercising mice presented decreased ACTH responses. Interestingly, exercising mice showed a decreased corticosterone response to novelty only when the novel environment contained a functioning running wheel. Glucocorticoid receptor levels were unchanged, whereas mineralocorticoid receptor levels were decreased, in hippocampus of exercising animals. Corticotropin-releasing factor mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus were lower in exercising mice. Thus, voluntary exercise results in complex, adaptive changes at various levels within the HPA axis as well as in sympathoadrenomedullary and limbic/neocortical afferent control mechanisms. These changes seem to underlie the differential responsiveness of the HPA axis to physical vs. emotional challenges.
Testosterone destroys the transcortin-receptor complex.	Dissociation of the complex of transcortin receptor with immobilized transcortin in the presence of 10(-5) M testosterone has been shown with the use of affinity chromatography on transcortin-Sepharose. The specificity of this effect is confirmed by its abrogation in the presence of cortisol. The testosterone effect has been used for the elution of transcortin receptor from affinity column. The receptor retained transcortin-binding capacity after the elution and removal of testosterone. Characteristics of the receptor obtained by testosterone elution were identical with those of the transcortin eluted preparation.
A transcortin-binding protein in the plasma membrane of human syncytiotrophoblast.	Using affinity chromatography on immobilized transcortin of 125I-labeled, cholate-solubilized plasma membranes of human syncytiotrophoblast, a transcortin-binding protein with a minimal Mr of about 20 kDa has been isolated. It was found to be a sialoglycoprotein with an isoelectric point at pH 4.4 (about 5.0 after the treatment with neuraminidase). We assume that this protein is a component of membrane recognition system for transcortin-steroid complexes.
A steroids QSAR approach based on approximate similarity measurements.	A new QSAR method based on approximate similarity measurements is described in this paper. Approximate similarity is calculated using both the classical similarity based on the graph isomorphism and a distance computation between nonisomorphic subgraphs. The latter is carried out through a parametric function where different topological invariants can be considered. After optimizing the contribution of nonisomorphic distance to the new graph similarity, predictive models built with approximate similarity matrixes show higher predictive ability than those using traditional similarity matrixes. The new method has been applied to the prediction of steroids binding to the corticosteroid globulin receptor. The proposed model allows us to obtain valuable external predictions (r=0.82 and SEP=0.30) after training the model by cross-validation (Q2=0.84 and SECV=0.47). Slope and bias parameters are also given.
Plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) values and cortisol response to 250 and 1 microg ACTH stimulation in patients with hyperthyroidism before and after carbimazole therapy: case-control comparative study.	Although the production and metabolic clearance rate of cortisol is increased during thyrotoxic state, the net effect on adrenocortical reserves is not clear.
Measurement of serum free cortisol shows discordant responsivity to stress and dynamic evaluation.	Routinely available assays of adrenal function measure serum total cortisol (TC) and not the biologically active free cortisol (FC). However, there are few data on FC levels during surgical stress and in response to standard pharmacological tests.
Soft drugs--10. Blanching activity and receptor binding affinity of a new type of glucocorticoid: loteprednol etabonate.	An improved synthesis of loteprednol etabonate (chloromethyl 17 alpha-ethoxycarbonyloxy-11 beta-hydroxy-3-oxoandrosta-1,4-diene 17 beta-carboxylate) was achieved. The design of the new type of glucocorticoid was based on the soft drug concept. The relative binding affinities of loteprednol and its putative metabolites (PJ90 and PJ91) to rat lung type II glucocorticoid receptor were determined in a competitive binding experiment with [3H]triamicinolone acetonide. The medium contained cortienic acid (10(-5) M) in order to block transcortin binding sites. Loteprednol etabonate exhibited a binding affinity which was 4.3 times that of dexamethasone, both compounds having a Hill factor close to 1 whereas PJ90 and PJ91 did not show any affinity to the receptor. Loteprednol etabonate was compared to betamethasone 17 alpha-valerate in a vasoconstriction test which was performed on the forearm skin of human volunteers. The results showed that loteprednol etabonate has good skin-permeation properties and strong glucocorticoid activity.
Consideration on some hormone binding proteins patterns during pregnancy.	Serum concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin, transcortin, thyroxine binding globulin, transthyretin together with retinol binding protein, ceruloplasmin, transferrin and albumin were measured sequentially in pregnant women in order to derive more definite suppositions relating to the prime function of hormone binding proteins. Thus, the fact that except for transthyretin all other specific hormone binding proteins exhibited appreciable but significantly variable increases would suggest: a) the apparent existence of more complex mechanisms regulating protein metabolism during pregnancy than hitherto postulated (i.e. the general notion of an integrated estrogen influence); b) a major and distinctive role for each of the hormone binding proteins is plausible since alterations in hormonal requirements by the fetus as pregnancy progresses can not be provided by the almost constant transplacental transfer rate of the "free" hormone moiety.
Adrenocortical hormonal activity in 20-year-old subjects born small or appropriate for gestational age.	Altered adrenocortical activity is one suggested mechanism relating small birth size with the metabolic syndrome in adulthood. Adrenal androgen concentrations are higher in children born small (SGA) than appropriate for gestational age (AGA).
How changes in affinity of corticosteroid-binding globulin modulate free cortisol concentration.	Recent studies of corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) indicate that it does not merely transport cortisol passively but also actively regulates its release in the circulation. We show how CBG binding affinity can vary to give changes in free cortisol concentration in a physiologically relevant range.
Corticosteroid-binding globulin contributes to the neuroendocrine phenotype of mice selected for extremes in stress reactivity.	Increasing evidence indicates an important role of steroid-binding proteins in endocrine functions, including hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and regulation, as they influence bioavailability, local delivery, and cellular signal transduction of steroid hormones. In the plasma, glucocorticoids (GCs) are mainly bound to the corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) and to a lesser extend to albumin. Plasma CBG levels are therefore involved in the adaptive stress response, as they determine the concentration of free, biologically active GCs. In this study, we investigated whether male mice with a genetic predisposition for high-reactivity (HR), intermediate-reactivity (IR), or low-reactivity (LR) stress-induced corticosterone (CORT) secretion present different levels of free CORT and CORT-binding proteins, basally and in response to stressors of different intensity. Our results suggest a fine control interaction between plasma CBG expression and stress-induced CORT release. Although plasma CBG levels, and therefore CBG binding capacity, were higher in HR animals, CORT secretion overloaded the CBG buffering function in response to stressors, resulting in clearly higher free CORT levels in HR compared with IR and LR mice (HR>IR>LR), resembling the pattern of total CORT increase in all three lines. Both stressors, restraint or forced swimming, did not evoke fast CBG release from the liver into the bloodstream and therefore CBG binding capacity was not altered in our three mouse lines. Thus, we confirm CBG functions in maintaining a dynamic equilibrium between CBG-bound and unbound CORT, but could not verify its role in delaying the rise of plasma free CORT immediately after stress exposure. 
Interaction with the pharmacokinetics of ethinylestradiol and progestogens contained in oral contraceptives.	The serum concentrations of ethinylestradiol (EE) during the first 4 h and 24 h after intake of an oral contraceptive containing 30 micrograms EE and 75 micrograms gestodene (EE/GSD) were compared to those after intake of a preparation containing the same EE dose and 150 micrograms desogestrel (EE/DG) in each of 11 women on days 1, 10, and 21 of their 1st, 3rd, 6th, and 12th cycles. There were great interindividual variations, but during treatment with EE/GSD the EE levels were higher and the EE peaks occurred by 30 min later than during treatment with EE/DG. The areas under the EE serum concentration-versus-time curves (AUC) between 0 and 4 h were higher by 37% (p less than 0.03) and between 0 and 24 h higher by 70% (p less than 0.002) during treatment with EE/GSD. During each treatment cycle, the EE levels rose between day 1 and 10. The serum levels of corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), which is known to be influenced only by the estrogenic component of the combination pill, increased significantly (p less than 0.01) during each treatment cycle. CBG was elevated on day 21 of the 6th and 12th cycle by 150 to 155% and by 120 to 130% with EE/GSD and EE/DG, respectively. The difference between the two drugs was significant (p less than 0.02). During the pill-free intervals of 7 days between the treatment cycles, the CBG levels decreased but were still elevated by 85% with EE/GSD and 50% with EE/DG at the beginning of the following cycle as compared to the control cycle. The serum levels of cortisol were also significantly more elevated (p less than 0.05) during treatment with EE/GSD as compared to EE/DG. Despite the same EE dose during treatment, the higher EE levels with EE/GSD as compared to EE/DG seem to be due to a retardation of the inactivation and elimination of EE caused by the progestogen component. The rise in the EE levels during each cycle seems to be due to a reduction in the oxidative metabolism by EE itself.
Measurement of the corticosteroid-binding globulin, progesterone, and progesterone "receptor" content in human endometrium.	The corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) content has been determined in cytosols prepared from human endometrium taken at different phases of the menstrual cycle, at 8-10 weeks gestation, and during treatment with an oral contraceptive. The data were compared to the progesterone "receptor" and the progesterone concentration in the same tissue extracts. The plasma contamination was estimated by the serum albumin content. It was observed that CBG is a constant contaminant of the endometrial cytosols. All of the CBG content can be considered to be of plasma origin. The cytoplasmic progesterone "receptor" content is between 21-33% of the CBG concentration during the menstrual cycle and is only 1% during pregnancy. The cytosol progesterone concentration is much higher in endometrium than would be expected from the plasma contamination and the level of the progesterone "receptor".
Effects of progesterone induced postmaturity on CBG and pituitary-adrenal activities in the rat foetus.	CBG and pituitary-adrenal activities were investigated in intact rat foetuses, in newborns spontaneously delivered by vaginal way and in postmature foetuses from mothers with delayed parturition caused by daily progesterone injection from day 20 of gestation. The postmature foetuses had lower body weights and higher adrenal weights on day 22, 23 and 24 of gestation than newborns of the same conceptional age. The corticosterone binding capacity of the plasma as well as the binding capacity of CBG for corticosterone decreased in intact foetuses for the last 3 days of gestation and stayed very low in pups from day 0 to day 8 postpartum. These parameters decreased more slowly in postmature foetuses; however, the differences between the latter and intact foetuses or newborns were not statistically significant. Similar evolution occurred in intact pregnant and suckling females as well as in females with prolonged gestation. The fall in CBG activity in normal rat pups and the subsequent rise in free steroids could explain a sharp decrease in plasma ACTH levels as well as the drop in adrenal and plasma corticosterone concentration. In foetuses with prolonged gestation, the same phenomenon did not occur. Stress conditions produced by maintaining growing foetuses in utero and the development of severe jaundice maintained high ACTH levels. In contrast, the fall in adrenal and plasma corticosterone concentrations in spite of the high level of circulating ACTH could be mainly due to the progesterone inhibition of the steroidogenic activity of the foetal adrenals.
Diminished glucocorticoid tonus in obese strain (OS) chickens with spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis: increased plasma levels of a physicochemically unaltered corticosteroid-binding globulin but normal total corticosterone plasma concentration and normal glucocorticoid receptor contents in lymphoid tissues.	Obese strain (OS) chickens afflicted with spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis (SAT) display several signs of a general immune dysbalance, some of which may be related to altered endocrine mechanisms such as the glucocorticoid tonus. The latter is the combined result of corticosterone (CN) production, metabolism as well as excretion, and the binding of CN to corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR). The present study deals with the comparative investigation of these parameters in OS and normal White Leghorn (NWL) chickens. The results obtained with radioimmunoassay for CN and radioligand saturation assays for plasma CBG as well as GR in the thymus were as follows: (1) both OS and NWL have equal total CN levels; (2) however, OS chickens exhibit elevated CBG levels, whereas the physicochemical parameters (equilibrium affinity, specificity spectrum) of CBG were equal in OS and NWL; (3) the GR capacities and affinities were equal in both OS and NWL throughout development until thymic involution. Similarly, the specificity, affinity, and sedimentation behaviour were equal in OS and NWL. (4) Furthermore, no differences were found in the response of OS and NWL splenocytes to the suppressive effect of glucocorticoids in vitro, also excluding postreceptor alterations at the cellular level in the OS. From these findings we conclude that the increased CBG levels, which are not compensated for by either increased CN plasma levels or by increased receptor capacities or affinities in lymphatic organs, represent a diminished glucocorticoid tonus in OS chickens. This may have immunoregulatory consequences which, in turn, may contribute to the development of SAT.
Corticosteroid receptor analyses in rat and hamster brains reveal species specificity in the type I and type II receptors.	In vitro cytosol binding, receptor autoradiography with radiolabelled corticosteroid analogs, and immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies have revealed the presence of two receptor systems for corticosteroids in rat and hamster brains. The type I receptor is found mainly in the hippocampal region, and in the hamster it binds cortisol (F) and corticosterone (B) with similar affinity while in the rat (a species which unlike the hamster secretes solely B) the type I receptor shows high affinity to B and not to F. The type II receptor is more widely distributed in the brain and it binds to F (hamster) or B (rat) with affinity 4-6-fold lower than to the type I. in vivo, the hamster type I and II retain F much more than B while those in the rat show the opposite. In conclusion, the present study clearly indicates species-specificity in type I and type II receptor systems in these animals. Furthermore, the type I receptor displays in vivo stringent preference for retention of the animal's predominantly circulating corticosteroid (F in hamster, in B in rat).
Interaction of the transcortin-progesterone complex with plasma membranes of human decidual epithelium]	It was demonstrated that transcortin complexed with progesterone specifically binds to plasma membranes of human decidual endometrium, a progesterone target tissue. This interaction is characterized by a high affinity [Kd = (1.0 +/- 0.2).10(-10) mol/l] and selectivity. Such human serum proteins as albumin, orosomucoid, transferrin, thyroxine- and sex steroid-binding globulins do not compete with transcortin for the binding sites on the membranes. The concentration of endogenous transcortin in sodium cholate-solubilized endometrium cell membranes was determined by the radioimmunoassay method.
Comparative study of primates' transcortin: immunoreactivity and steroid-binding activity.	To investigate the phylogenic aspect of transcortin (corticosteroid-binding globulin, CBG), the immunoreactivity of transcortin with anti-human transcortin antiserum was studied in primates. The anti-human transcortin antibody was recognized by plasma proteins obtained from Catarrhini, taxonomically the most evolved monkey group. The immunoreactivity was not observed in plasma obtained from Platyrrhini and Prosimiae, classified as less evolved monkey groups than Catarrhini. Though comparison of immunoreactivity among different classes of Catarrhini was difficult because of non-parallelism of their displacement curves, displacement of 125I-labelled human transcortin from the antiserum by 1:10 and 1:100 diluted plasma was highest in human followed by Pongidae, Cercopithecoidea. The immunoreactivity of thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) with anti-human TBG antiserum was also examined. The anti-human TBG antibody was only recognized in plasma from Pan (anthropoid ape) among Pongidae, highly evolved monkeys among Catarrhini. The existence of immunoreactive transcortin and TBG to respective human protein antibody in the highly evolved ape agreed well with the cladogenetic division of primate species delineated by Goodman and Moore (1971). Cortisol-binding activity of transcortin was detected in all monkeys except three, tafted capuchin monkey, night monkey and cotton-headed tamarin, which belong to Platyrrhini. The absence of cortisol-binding activity in these animals might be attributed to high levels of endogenous cortisol and low cortisol-binding capacity of transcortin. It is speculated that the structure of the immunoreactive site in transcortin could be modified by evolution without affecting the biologically important site, the site for cortisol binding.
Estrogen-induced transcortin increase and progesterone and cortisol interactions: implications from pregnancy studies.	The concentrations of progesterone, cortisol, estradiol, and transcortin binding capacity (TBC) were measured in plasma samples of women during normal pregnancy. Between 10 weeks and 20 weeks gestation, the mean of TBC increased linearly, and the mean increase in TBC for a given estradiol increment was constant until the estradiol concentrations reached approximately 30 nmol per liter. The results were consistent with the increase in TBC having been induced by estradiol; however, there was an inherent upper limit of response. Progesterone and cortisol were each linearly related to TBC, but the ratios of progesterone:TBC and cortisol:TBC showed no systematic trend throughout the period studied, and there was no systematic relationship between TBC and the progesterone:cortisol ratio. There was, however, a linear relationship between TBC and the progesterone + cortisol sum, such that a unit increase in TBC was accompanied by an approximate unit increase in the total concentration of the two main transcortin binding steroids. Some cases of spontaneous abortion or habitual abortion might be due to aberrant metabolic influence on progesterone of binding protein; in the instances studied, no evidence was found for this.
The effect of glucocorticoids on corticosteroid binding globulin.	To evaluate the effect of glucocorticoids on corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), we measured the binding capacity and binding affinity of cortisol for CBG in normal subjects, patients receiving glucocorticoids and patients with Cushing's syndrome. Normal subjects had a mean binding capacity of 3.8 (+/- SD 0.7) X 10(-7) mol/l and mean binding affinity of 1.96 +/- 0.48 X 10(-8) M. Patients with Cushing's syndrome had a 40% decrease in binding capacity (2.3 +/- 0.4 X 10(-7) mol/l) compared to control subjects and significantly lower mean binding capacity than patients receiving pharmacological (2.9 +/- 0.6 X 10(-7) mol/l) and physiological doses of glucocorticoids (3.4 +/- 0.6 X 10(-7) mol/l) (P = 0.05 one-way analysis of variance). Patients with endogenous cortisol excess also had significantly lower mean binding affinity (1.54 +/- 0.37 X 10(-8) M) than normal subjects and glucocorticoid treated subjects. These changes suggest that both endogenous and exogenous glucocorticoids can modulate circulating levels of CBG and may have important implications for patients receiving steroid therapy.
Identification and measurement of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) in human saliva.	Sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) were detected by specific immunoassays in mixed-saliva taken from normal men and women. The immunochemical identity of both proteins was demonstrated by parallelism between dose response curves generated by serial dilutions of saliva and standards in the immunoassays. In addition, the specific removal of both proteins by incubation with steroid affinity-chromatography gels demonstrated the integrity of their steroid binding activity. The mean +/- SD concentrations of SHBG (pmol/l) and CBG (microgram/l) in mixed-saliva taken from normal volunteers were as follows: men (n = 6) 19 +/- 10 and 38 +/- 18; women (n = 6) 63 +/- 60 and 72 +/- 71 and women during late pregnancy (n = 6) 282 +/- 168 and 92 +/- 80, respectively. The data indicate that the concentrations of SHBG and CBG in saliva represent approximately 0.1% of plasma concentrations. It is suggested that these proteins pass from the blood to saliva in a non-specific manner, and may influence the steroid content of saliva under certain physiological circumstances.
Differences in oestrogen receptors in malignant and normal breast tissue as identified by the binding of a new synthetic progestogen.	Oestrogen receptor protein (ER) was detected in 9 of 11 samples of malignant breast tissue and 8 of 9 samples of normal breast tissue. Levels of cytosolic ER (ERc) in malignant breast were 21-1102 fmol mg-1 soluble protein (Kd 1.8 X 10(-9)-3.1 X 10(-8) mol l-1) and those of nucleosolic ER (ERn), 13-526 fmol mg-1 soluble protein (Kd 2.1 X 10(-9)-1.4 X 10(-8) mol l-1). In normal breast tissue ERc levels were 33-640 fmol mg-1 soluble protein (Kd 1.3 X 10(-10)-3.2 X 10(-9) mol l-1), ERn was detected in only 2 samples, 8 and 87 fmol mg-1 soluble protein with Kd 3.2 X 10(-9) and 1.4 X 10(-9) l mol-1 respectively. 17 alpha-ethinyl-13 beta-ethyl-17 beta-hydroxy-4,15-gonadiene-3-one (gestodene), a new synthetic progestogen displaced 3H-oestradiol (3H-E2) from both ERc and ERn in malignant tissue but not in normal breast, or these receptors from endometrial tissue. In competition studies gestodene was approximately 3 times more effective in displacing 3H-E2 from ERc and ERn in malignant breast tissue than the natural ligand. Quantitation of ER by gestodene were ERc, 12-1134 fmol gestodene bound mg-1 soluble protein (Kd 1 X 10(-9)-8.1 X 10(-9) mol l-1); ERn, 17-531 fmol gestodene bound mg-1 soluble protein (Kd 1.6 X 10(-9)-1.1 X 10(-8) mol l-1). L-13-ethyl-17 alpha-ethinyl, 17 beta-hydroxy-gonen-3-one (levonorgestrel) showed no binding to ER in malignant breast, normal breast or endometrial tissue. In circulation both gestodene and levonorgestrel displaced E2 from sex hormone binding globulin more than any of the androgens tested. These results suggest that gestodene is a progestogen with oestrogenic and/or antioestrogenic properties and provide strong evidence for differences in ER from malignant and normal breast tissue.
Alterations in steroid binding plasma proteins in Macaca nemestrina during pregnancy.	We measured the corticosterone and dihydrotestosterone steroid binding capacities of corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) and sex steroid plasma binding protein (SBP) throughout pregnancy in seven Macaca nemestrina. The nSBP binding capacity rises significantly by 28 days of pregnancy, remains elevated through 56 days, tends to fall through midpregnancy, and then decreases dramatically to very low values 130-153 days after conception. In contrast, nCBG rises slightly (1.2-fold) in early pregnancy, is elevated in midpregnancy, but is similar to nonpregnant values during the last trimester of pregnancy. Our data indicate that factors controlling the plasma concentration of nCBG and nSBP are not identical. The results are in sharp contrast to those observed in human pregnancies in which both hSBP and hCBG are increased severalfold during pregnancy, including at term. Because the changes of nCBG and nSBP during pregnancy do not paralle the changes observed in human beings even though their steroid binding characteristics are similar, the M. nemestrina may serve as a valuable model for defining the physiologic function of SBP and CBG and the mechanism(s) controlling their concentrations in blood.
Corticotrophin and corticosterone secretory patterns following acute neurogenic stress, in intact and in variously hypothalamic deafferented male rats.	Adult male rats, intact (N) or bearing complete (CHD), anterior (AHD), or posterior (PHD) hypothalamic deafferentations, were acutely exposed to either visual or audiogenic stimulation. At 2, 4, 10 or 30 min following the onset of stress exposure the animals were decapitated and trunk blood was collected for ACTH (RIA) and corticosterone (CS, CBG) determinations. Basal serum concentrations of both hormones were elevated in CHD and AHD, but not in PHD animals as compared to N animals. In N rats, exposure to both stresses resulted in elevated serum ACTH and CS concentrations, with the ACTH response to audiogenic but not visual stimulation being biphasic. In CHD animals, serum ACTH concentrations decreased, and those of CS were unchanged following stress exposure. While audiogenic stimulation caused elevation in serum levels of both hormones in AHD rats, the normal ACTH and CS response to visual stimulation were completely abolished by anterior hypothalamic deafferentation. In PHD animals, no ACTH response to either of the stress exposures was apparent; in spite of this, partial CS responses were elicited. These data thus describe the temporal aspects of the ACTH and CS secretory responses to different neurogenic stresses, and provide insight into the neural pathways mediating these responses.
Modification of pituitary-adrenal feedback sensitivity in young rats by neonatal treatment with cortisol.	Neonatal exposure of rats to cortisol acetate was found to alter pituitary-adrenal feedback regulation at 20-25 days of age. Plasma levels of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) after ether stress were reduced in cortisol-treated rats pre-treated with 100 microgram corticosterone/100 g body weight, while rats given vehicle neonatally did not show suppression of the ACTH response below levels in animals given saline only or not injected as pre-treatments. Neonatal cortisol increased sensitivity to dexamethasone in inhibition of the stress response; cortisol-treated animals had a reduced plasma corticosterone response to stress 3 h after pre-treatment with 1.25, 2.5, 25, or 250 microgram dexamethasone/100 g body weight, while the stress response in animals given vehicle neonatally was not inhibited by the lowest dosage of dexamethasone. Neonatal cortisol treatment did not affect corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) binding capacity in plasma of 25-day-old animals. Thus, neonatal treatment with cortisol appears to increase feedback sensitivity to circulating corticosteroids at 20-25 days of age.
Ketoconazole binds to the intracellular corticosteroid-binding protein in Candida albicans.	Ketoconazole is a broad-spectrum, orally-active antifungal agent that has been shown to inhibit sterol synthesis in susceptible fungi. We have previously demonstrated the presence of an intracellular protein in several Candida species that binds mammalian corticosteroids with high affinity. In this paper we report that ketoconazole competitively displaces [3H]corticosterone from the Candida corticosteroid-binding protein at concentrations readily achieved in therapeutic settings. Ketoconazole was at least 50-100 times more potent than structurally related imidazole compounds. Additional data suggest, however, that the binding of ketoconazole and related drugs to this Candida protein is not critical for the in vitro antifungal activity of these drugs.
Synthesis of some steroid spin labels.	An improved synthesis of spin-labeled cortisol, cortisone, and testosterone using N,N'-cyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) is reported. The spin labeled steroids are shown to result from the esterification at the most reactive C(21) and C(17) hydroxyl groups. A mild and high yield oxidation of cortisol spin label to cortisone spin label by chromium trioxide-pyridine is also discussed.
Reversible dissociation of cortisol-transcortin complex by sodium para-chloromercuribenzoate.	Mercurials are considered as sulphydryl group specific reagents and one of them, sodium para-chloromercuribenzoate (PCMB), is currently used for SH titration. It has been shown that cellular steroid receptors are reversibly inactivated by mercurials even when the binding site is occupied by the steroid (Coty, W.A. (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255, 8035-8037). This is a striking difference with alkylating SH reagents such as iodoacetic acid or N-ethylmaleimide, since these reagents inactivate only steroid-free receptors. In order to explain this discrepancy, we tested, in the present study, the specificity of PCMB on a blood plasma steroid binding protein: human transcortin. This protein presents the advantage, over cellular receptors, of being well characterized and to be available in a pure state. The transcortin-cortisol complex was also reversibly inactivated by PCMB when the reaction was carried out at a high excess of reagent over protein; such conditions are those previously used with steroid receptors. The reversibility was obtained not only with a reducing agent (dithiothreitol) but also with EDTA, which suggests a poor stability of the protein mercurial bond and therefore a nonspecific action. The decrease of activity was the result of a loss of binding sites and Scatchard plot analysis did not reveal any detectable decrease of the affinity constant for cortisol. Transcortin possesses two SH groups per molecule, one of these being buried in native conformation. After blockage of the accessible SH group by aminoethylation, transcortin kept the same activity, but when this aminoethylated transcortin was incubated with PCMB a loss of activity was obtained, although the residual buried SH group was again titrable with Ellman's reagent. Therefore, we can conclude that the action of PCMB on proteins must be interpreted with precaution, since it can induce an inactivation that is SH-independent.
Effects of changes of body temperature on serum cortisol fractions (author's transl)]	Most of the cortisol in circulating blood is bound to proteins (transcortin and albumin), and the rest is protein-unbound. It has generally been accepted that transcortin-bound cortisol (Tr-F) and albumin-bound cortisol (Al-F) are physiologically inactive, and that protein-unbound cortisol (U-F) is active. It is also known that the binding capacity of transcortin to cortisol is lower at 37 degrees C than at 4 degrees C. However, no investigations concerning the influence of temperature changes the physiological range have been reported, probably because of the lack of proper methods. In this report, the influence of temperature changes the physiological range on serum protein-cortisol binding is assessed and its physiological roles are discussed. Cortisol binding of transcortin and albumin was determined by a newly developed isocolloidosmolar equilibrium dialysis method. The total cortisol concentration was determined by the CPB assay method described by Murphy. In the beginning, experiments were performed using pooled human serum. This serum was dialyzed at 35, 37, 39 and 41 degrees C. U-F and Al-F concentrations increased in accordance with the increment of incubation temperature, whereas Tr-F concentration decreased. The association constant of transcortin to cortisol decreased with the rise of incubation temperature. It was 3.43, 2.92, 2,32 and 1.66 X 10(7)M-1 at 35, 37, 39 and 41 degrees C, respectively. However, the association constant of albumin to cortisol was 3.04 X 10(3)M-1 and stayed unchanged under these conditions. These results suggest that the transcortin-cortisol complex dissociates with temperature rises and that a part of freed cortisol is bound to albumin while the other part remains protein-unbound cortisol. When various amounts of cortisol were added to the pooled human serum, which was dialyzed at 35, 37, 39 and 41 degrees C; U-F, Al-F and Tr-F concentrations increased corresponding to the amount of added cortisol. The increase of U-F, Al-F concentrations and decrease of Tr-F concentration induced by the rise of temperature was still significant at each total coritsol concentration. Cortisol fractions in the serum of healthy subjects were compared with those of 39 febrile patients consisting of A group (body temperature 37 approximately 38 degrees C), B group (38 approximately 39 degrees C), and C group (39 approximately 40 degrees C). Total cortisol concentrations increased with the rise of body temperature. They were 7.62 (normal), 10.64 (A), 14.84 (B) and 21.37 (C) microgram/100ml, respectively. U-F% and Al-F% increased parallel with the total cortisol concentration. Tr-F%, binding capacity of transcortin. These results reveal that the rise of body temperature elevates the total cortisol concentration, and the greater part of increased cortisol becomes U-F and Al-F, while a relatively small part of it is bound to transcortin. The percent change of the total cortisol concentration in comparison with healthy subjects was 150 (A), 209 (B) and 593 (C),  respectively...
Interrelations between binding affinity and metabolic clearance rate for the main corticosteroids in the rabbit.	In the rabbit, the metabolic clearance rate (MCR) was found to be higher for corticosterone than for cortisol. At the same time corticosterone, aldosterone and 11-dehydrocorticosterone showed similar MCR while cortisone ranged at intermediate levels between cortisol and corticosterone. The relative binding affinity of transcortin to the corticosteroids, as calculated by an in vitro technique, decreased progressively from cortisol, to cortisone, then to corticosterone, then 11-dehydrocorticosterone and, finally to aldosterone. The occurrence of antibodies in plasma, induced against aldosterone, corticosterone or even cortisone resulted in a marked decrease in the MCR of the corresponding steroid, to the level measured in controls for cortisol. We deduced that, in rabbits: (1) the MCR of a corticosteroid is clearly connected with its binding to a specific protein; (2) in spite of the relatively high binding affinity of transcortin for corticosterone as compared to other species it nevertheless appears unable to significantly protect the steroid against peripheral metabolism; (3) a very effective protection is however, induced, by raising a specific antibody with a high binding affinity for corticosterone.
Binding capacity of sex hormone binding globulin and corticosteroid binding globulin in serum of male patients with liver cirrhosis (author's transl)]	The binding capacities of SHBG and CBG were measured by agar gel electrophoresis in 63 men with cirrhosis of the liver and in 42 healthy male subjects. The normal range (X- +/- 2s) for SHBG was 8.3-17.1 microgram/l, for CBG 46.4-82.8 micrograms/l. SHBG binding capacity was significantly higher in men with liver cirrhosis (mean 18;1 microgram/l; p less than 0.001) but CBG binding capacity was significantly lower (mean 49.7 microgram/l; p less than 0.001). Although SHBG was lower in patients with decreased CBG binding capacity, a correlation between both steroid binding proteins did not exist. Moreover, there was no correlation between SHBG or CBG on one hand and other parameters of hepatic protein synthesis such as serum protein concentration, cholinesterase activity and the coagulation factors V and VII on the other hand. In contrast to liver cirrhosis, 12 patients with fatty liver and 11 patients with toxic fibrosis of the liver did not reveal changes in SHBG or CBG. Treatment with spironolactone (200 mg daily for one week in 9 subjects) did not change the steroid binding capacity of human serum.
Changes in blood levels of proteinase inhibitors, pregnancy zone protein, steroid carriers and complement factors induced by oral contraceptives.	Three low-dose oral contraceptives Trinordiol, Gynatrol, and Marvelon, containing ethinylestradiol (EE) in combination with triphasic levonorgestrel (LNg), monophasic levonorgestrel, and monophasic desogestrel (DGS), respectively, were given to 65 healthy women, n = 21-22 in each group. Blood levels of antithrombin III (AT III), alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1at), complement factors (factor B, C3, C4), pregnancy zone protein (PZP), corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and albumin were measured before treatment and during the first and third treatment cycles. AT III levels decreased and alpha 1at levels increased in all three groups during treatment. alpha 2M increased during cycle 3 in the Trinordiol and Gynatrol groups. CBG, PZP and SHBG levels increased in all 3 groups, the CBG and PZP increase being higher in the Marvelon group than in the Gynatrol group. Increases in SHBG levels were found in the order Marvelon > Trinordiol > Gynatrol. Plasma levels of complement factors B, C3 and C4 remained unchanged. It is concluded that the increase in alpha 1at partly compensates for the fall in AT III, that the rise in PZP presumably enhances fibrinolysis, and that LNg has higher anti-estrogenicity and androgenicity than DSG.
A long-term increase in basal levels of corticosterone and a decrease in corticosteroid-binding globulin after acute stressor exposure.	Adrenal glucocorticoids play an important role in mediating many of the behavioral and physiological effects of exposure to stressors. Focus has been primarily on the acute stress-induced rise in glucocorticoids [corticosterone (CORT) in the rat]. There are reports, however, that exposure to chronic stressors can produce an increase in basal CORT and a decrease in corticotropin-binding globulin (CBG). These changes occur subsequent to the stress-induced rise in CORT. The following experiments examined whether exposure to an acute stressor (100 5-sec inescapable tail shocks; IS) could also produce long term changes in basal CORT and CBG. We report that a single session of IS results in an increase in basal total serum CORT that persists 48-96 h after IS termination. The increase is present only at the diurnal trough (morning). CBG levels ae also decreased for 24-48 h. The decrease is present at both the diurnal peak (evening) as well as the trough (morning). These changes result in an increase in the percent and amount of biologically active CORT (unbound or free). Thus, glucocorticoid-sensitive targets are exposed to high levels of free CORT for several days after IS termination. The long term increase in free CORT reported here may play an important role in mediating some of the effects produced by IS as well as those produced by other acute stressors.
Delayed ACTH response to human corticotropin releasing hormone during cardiopulmonary bypass under diazepam-high dose fentanyl anaesthesia.	The inhibitory effect of high dose fentanyl (0.1 mg.kg-1) and diazepam (0.5 mg.kg-1) anaesthesia on the pituitary-adrenal response to coronary artery surgery during cardiopulmonary bypass was assessed by comparison of the adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol responses to intravenous boluses of either 0.1 mg (n = 14) or 0.2 mg (n = 14) human corticotropin releasing hormone administered 5 min after starting cardiopulmonary bypass, with the responses obtained in a control group (n = 14). Blood samples were taken before inducing anaesthesia, just before cardiopulmonary bypass and at 5, 20, 35, 50, 65 and 80 min thereafter. The administration of human corticotropin releasing hormone at both doses resulted in significantly greater plasma concentrations of adrenocorticotropic hormone at 50, 65 and 80 min compared to the control group; at the other sampling times there were no differences between the three groups. Plasma cortisol concentrations did not vary between the three groups at any sampling time. During cardiopulmonary bypass the early adrenocorticotropic responses to human corticotropin releasing hormone are blunted but later there is a good response, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of high dose fentanyl and diazepam anaesthesia takes place in the hypothalamus.
Sample-distance partial least squares: PLS optimized for many variables, with application to CoMFA.	Three-dimensional molecular modeling can provide an unlimited number m of structural properties. Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA), for example, may calculate thousands of field values for each model structure. When m is large, partial least squares (PLS) is the statistical method of choice for fitting and predicting biological responses. Yet PLS is usually implemented in a property-based fashion which is optimal only for small m. We describe here a sample-based formulation of PLS which can be used to fit any single response (bioactivity). SAMPLS reduces all explanatory data to the pairwise 'distances' among n samples (molecules), or equivalently to an n-by-n covariance matrix C. This matrix, unmodified, can be used to fit all PLS components. Furthermore, SAMPLS will validate the model by modern resampling techniques, at a cost independent of m. We have implemented SAMPLS as a Fortran program and have reproduced conventional and cross-validated PLS analyses of data from two published studies. Full (leave-each-out) cross-validation of a typical CoMFA takes 0.2 CPU s. SAMPLS is thus ideally suited to structure-activity analysis based on CoMFA fields or bonded topology. The sample-distance formulation also relates PLS to methods like cluster analysis and nonlinear mapping, and shows how drastically PLS simplifies the information in CoMFA fields.
Changes in androgens during treatment with four low-dose contraceptives.	The aim of the present study was to compare changes in the endogenous androgen environment in healthy women while on low-dose oral contraceptives (OCs). One-hundred healthy women were randomized to receive one of four OCs during six months: 21 tablets of Cilest, Femodeen, Marvelon, or Mercilon. During the luteal phase of the pretreatment cycle, body weight and blood pressure were recorded and the following parameters were measured: sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), testosterone (T), free testosterone (FT), 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), androstenedione (A), dehydroepiandrosterone-sulphate (DHEA-S) and 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (170HP) while also the free androgen index (FAI) was calculated. Measurements were repeated during the 3rd week of pill intake in the 4th and the 6th pill month. There were no differences on body mass and blood pressure with the use of the four OCs. The mean serum DHEA-S decreased significantly in all groups though less in the Mercilon group when compared to Cilest and Marvelon (approximately 20% vs 45%). Mean serum SHBG and CBG increased significantly in all four groups approximately 250% and 100%, respectively. In each group CBG also increased significantly but less in women taking Mercilon (-75%) as compared to the others (-100%). Current low-dose OCs were found to have similar impact on the endogenous androgen metabolism with significant decreases of serum testosterone, DHT, A, and DHEA-S. They may be equally beneficial in women with androgen related syndromes such as acne and hirsutism.
Chronic social stress produces reductions in available splenic type II corticosteroid receptor binding and plasma corticosteroid binding globulin levels.	Adult male and female rats were housed for 2 weeks in a Visible Burrow System resulting in the development of strong dominant-subordinate relationships among the male rats. Neuroendocrine measures indicated that the subordinate rats, and to a lesser extent dominant rats, experienced chronic HPA axis hyperstimulation during the 2 week experience. This paper focuses on the consequences of this chronic social stress on cytosolic type II corticosteroid receptor binding in the spleen. In the first study, rats were adrenalectomized 18 h prior to sacrifice in order to measure total cellular receptor protein levels in each animal. In spite of the severity of the social stress, there was no decrease in splenic type II corticosteroid receptor binding levels in these short-term adrenalectomized animals. In the second study, rats were left adrenal-intact. Corticosteroid receptor levels in these adrenal-intact animals reflect the level of receptors (available receptors) that were unoccupied by endogenous hormone at the time of sacrifice. Both subordinate and dominant rats had fewer available splenic type II receptors than control rats, suggesting that a greater proportion of receptors in subordinate and dominant rats were occupied and activated by endogenous hormone at the time of sacrifice than in control rats. The differences in available receptor levels were not a function of total plasma corticosterone levels at the time of sacrifice (mean corticosterone levels were the same for control and subordinate rats). Instead, the differences in available receptor levels may have been a function of plasma corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) levels which regulate free corticosterone levels. There was a large reduction in plasma CBG levels of subordinate (-70%) and dominant (-40%) rats relative to control rats, and there was a significant correlation between plasma CBG level and available type II receptors in the spleen. These results suggest that a decrease in CBG levels as a result of chronic social stress led to greater access of free corticosterone hormone to type II receptors in the spleen than is typically present in rats under basal or acute stress conditions. This result illustrates one mechanism by which chronic stress may have a greater impact than acute stress on splenic immune function.
