The late radiotherapy normal tissue injury phenotypes of telangiectasia, fibrosis and atrophy in breast cancer patients have distinct genotype-dependent causes.	The relationship between late normal tissue radiation injury phenotypes in 167 breast cancer patients treated with radiotherapy and: (i) radiotherapy dose (boost); (ii) an early acute radiation reaction and (iii) genetic background was examined. Patients were genotyped at single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in eight candidate genes. An early acute reaction to radiation and/or the inheritance of the transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1 -509T) SNP contributed to the risk of fibrosis. In contrast, an additional 15 Gy electron boost and/or the inheritance of X-ray repair cross-complementing 1 (XRCC1) (R399Q) SNP contributed to the risk of telangiectasia. Although fibrosis, telangiectasia and atrophy, all contribute to late radiation injury, the data suggest that they have distinct underlying genetic and radiobiological causes. Fibrosis risk is associated with an inflammatory response (an acute reaction and/or TGFbeta1), whereas telangiectasia is associated with vascular endothelial cell damage (boost and/or XRCC1). Atrophy is associated with an acute response, but the genetic predisposing factors that determine the risk of an acute response or atrophy have yet to be identified. A combined analysis of two UK breast cancer patient studies shows that 8% of patients are homozygous (TT) for the TGFbeta1 (C-509T) variant allele and have a 15-fold increased risk of fibrosis following radiotherapy (95% confidence interval: 3.76-60.3; P=0.000003) compared with (CC) homozygotes.
TGFbeta promotes conversion of CD16+ peripheral blood NK cells into CD16- NK cells with similarities to decidual NK cells.	During pregnancy the uterine decidua is populated by large numbers of natural killer (NK) cells with a phenotype CD56(superbright)CD16(-)CD9(+)KIR(+) distinct from both subsets of peripheral blood NK cells. Culture of highly purified CD16(+)CD9(-) peripheral blood NK cells in medium containing TGFbeta1 resulted in a transition to CD16(-)CD9(+) NK cells resembling decidual NK cells. Decidual stromal cells, when isolated and cultured in vitro, were found to produce TGFbeta1. Incubation of peripheral blood NK cells with conditioned medium from decidual stromal cells mirrored the effects of TGFbeta1. Similar changes may occur upon NK cell entry into the decidua or other tissues expressing substantial TGFbeta. In addition, Lin(-)CD34(+)CD45(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells could be isolated from decidual tissue. These progenitors also produced NK cells when cultured in conditioned medium from decidual stromal cells supplemented with IL-15 and stem cell factor.
Seronegative spondyloarthropathy--studies from the Asia Pacific region.	Recent therapeutic advances, in particular the use of anti-tumour necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents, have revived interest in the seronegative spondyloarthropathies (SpA), a group of arthritides characterised by axial skeletal involvement and the absence of rheumatoid factor. The purpose of this article is to review the studies that have been done in the Asia Pacific region, as a broad understanding of the scope and severity of this group of diseases would enable rheumatologists and physicians in this part of the world to better manage their patients. The majority of genetic studies have focused on the associations of HLA-B27 with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and SpA, while a few studies examined the associations of the CARD, IL-1, LMP2, TAP and TGF with AS. There are a handful of studies on the immunological responses to bacteria and cytokine levels in AS. The onset and clinical features of SpA have been reported from most countries in the region, but no data on patient outcomes, using current measurement tools such as the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity index (BASDAI), is available. Validation of these instruments of measurement as well as classification criteria in different ethnic populations is necessary where no prior data exist. Future studies will likely be focused on better clinical characterisation of patient cohorts, particularly with regard to the use of currently used measurement tools for disease activity and spinal function and mobility, and the identification of the need for biologic therapy in each country.
Transforming growth factor beta1 up-regulates interferon regulatory factor 8 during dendritic cell development.	Langerhans cells (LC) represent the cutaneous contingent of dendritic cells (DC). Their development critically depends on transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) as demonstrated by analysis of TGF-beta1(-/-) mice, which lack LC. Here we used a two-step culture system and transcriptional profiling by DNA microarrays to search for TGF-beta1 target genes in DC. The study identified interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF-8) as a novel target gene of TGF-beta1 signaling in DC. TGF-beta1 effectively induced Smad2/3 phosphorylation and IRF-8 RNA and protein expression. Blocking the TGF-beta1/Smad pathway by ectopic expression of inhibitory Smad7 and by SB431542 inhibitor abolished TGF-beta1 induced up-regulation of IRF-8. Furthermore, TGF-beta1-dependent induction of IRF-8 occurred in the absence of protein biosynthesis, suggesting a direct action of TGF-beta1/Smad signaling on IRF-8 gene activity. TGF-beta1 also induced expression of the chemokine receptor CCR7 and enhanced DC migration towards CCR7 ligand ELC. DC of IRF-8(-/-) mice show reduced CCR7 expression and migratory activity, thereby implicating the TGF-beta1/Smad/IRF-8 signaling pathway in CCR7 regulation. Thus, this study identified a novel TGF-beta1/Smad/IRF-8 signaling pathway with an impact on DC phenotype and function.
Role of complement regulatory proteins in the survival of murine allo-transplanted Sertoli cells.	Sertoli cells (SC) are known to contain immunoprotective properties, which allow them to survive as allografts without the use of immunosuppressive drugs. Experiments were designed to determine which factors are related to prolonged survival of allogeneic SC. Balb/c derived Sertoli (TM4) and colon cancer (CT-26) cell lines were implanted beneath the kidney capsule of non-immunosuppressed C57BL/6 mice and compared their survival as allografts. Compared to TM4 graft, which survived more than 7 days after transplantation, CT-26 showed massive infiltration of polymorphonuclear cells, necrosis and enlargement of draining lymph nodes. Cultured cell lines showed no differences in their expression patterns of FasL, TGF beta1, clusterin and two complement regulatory proteins (CRP, i.e., membrane cofactor protein, MCP; decay accelerating factor, DAF), but protectin (CD59), another member of CRP was expressed only on TM4. These results suggest that CD59 and unknown factors may contribute to the prolonged survival of SC in non-immunoprivileged sites.
Viral factors associated with cytokine expression during HCV/HIV co-infection.	Co-infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is associated with reduced hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment response and accelerated HCV disease. Cytokines, as mediators of immune responses, inflammation, and fibrogenesis, may underlie important differences in HCV pathogenesis during HIV co-infection. We previously found that serum interleukin-8 (IL-8) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) increased after HCV therapy with interferon (IFN) in HCV/HIV co-infected patients; however, cytokine levels were not predictive of HCV therapeutic response. Here, we examined viral factors associated with expression of IL-8, TNF-alpha, and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) in uninfected, HCV mono-infected, HIV mono-infected, and HCV/HIV co-infected persons. HIV co-infection was associated with decreased IL-8 detection but not TNF-alpha detection. A significant interaction effect demonstrated that HIV infection was associated with elevated TGF-beta1 in HCV-positive individuals but not in HCV-negative individuals. The induction of a sustained profibrotic signal, such as TGF-beta1, by HIV may cause accelerated liver fibrosis during HCV/HIV co-infection and may hinder the host's ability to mount an effective HCV-specific immune response. Further studies are warranted to identify noninvasive markers of liver disease for the clinical management of HCV disease, particularly when liver biopsies have not been performed or are contraindicated.
The role of secondary lymphatic tissue in immune deficiency of HIV infection.	HIV infection is a disease primarily of lymphatic tissues, in which most viral replication occurs in CD4 T cells. The most common measures of the impact of HIV infection are made by counting CD4 T cells in peripheral blood. Peripheral blood, however, contains only 2% of the total CD4 cell population in the body and these are typically effector memory cells in transit; the vast majority of CD4 cells reside in the secondary lymphoid tissues (e.g. lymph nodes and mucosal lymphatic tissues) and the impact of HIV replication is most profound on the population residing within these compartments. Within organized follicular aggregates in mucosal tissues and the very precise structures of lymph nodes most viral replication occurs in the parafollicular T-cell zone, both in primary infection and throughout the course of the disease, such that by the time the patient presents with symptoms of HIV seroconversion approximately 50% of the population is already depleted. Therefore, if we are to understand the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of HIV and its related complications fully, we need to examine the structure and function of secondary lymphoid tissues before and during HIV infection and before and during HIV treatment. This may provide valuable insights into the underlying pathogenesis of a range of disorders associated with HIV infection, and potentially aid in the development of therapies aimed at emerging complications of long-term HIV infection.
A possible mechanism of impaired NK cytotoxicity in cancer patients: down-regulation of DAP10 by TGF-beta1.	Elevated TGF-BETA1 secretion and down-modulation of NKG2D underlies impaired NK cytotoxicity in cancer patients. However, the molecular mechanism of immunosuppression by TGF-BETA1 is not yet clarified.
Transforming growth factor-β1 promotes nasal mucosal mast cell chemotaxis in murine experimental allergic rhinitis.	Recent studies have shown that transforming growth factor-β(1) (TGF-β(1)) plays an important role in the progression of allergic diseases.
B Lymphocytes provide an infection niche for intracellular bacterium Brucella abortus.	Brucella spp. are intracellular bacteria that establish lifelong infections whose mechanisms of chronicity are poorly understood. Notably, B cells facilitate the establishment of the high infection plateau that persists for months.
Retinoic acid, acting as a highly specific IgA isotype switch factor, cooperates with TGF-β1 to enhance the overall IgA response.	The present study demonstrates that RA has activity of an IgA switch factor and is more specific than TGF-β1. RA independently caused only IgA switching, whereas TGF-β1 caused IgA and IgG2b switching. We found that RA increased IgA production and that this was a result of its ability to increase the frequency of IgA-secreting B cell clones. Increased IgA production was accompanied by an increase of GLTα. RA activity was abrogated by an antagonist of the RAR. Additionally, RA affected intestinal IgA production in mice. Surprisingly, RA, in combination with TGF-β1, notably enhanced not only IgA production and GLTα expression but also CCR9 and α4β7 expression on B cells. These results suggest that RA selectively induces IgA isotype switching through RAR and that RA and TGF-β have important effects on the overall gut IgA antibody response. 
IL4 and IL-17A provide a Th2/Th17-polarized inflammatory milieu in favor of TGF-β1 to induce bronchial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT).	Severe asthma is a chronic airway disease characterized by the Th2/Th17-polarized inflammation along with permanent airway remodeling. Despite past extensive studies, the exact role for Th2 and Th17 cytokines in asthmatic pathoetiology, particularly in the pathogenesis of bronchial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), is yet to be fully addressed. We herein conducted studies in 16-HBE cells and demonstrated that Th2-derived IL-4 and Th17-derived IL-17A provide a chronic inflammatory milieu that favors TGF-β1 to induce bronchial EMT. A synergic action was noted between TGF-β1, IL-4 and IL-17A in terms of induction of EMT. IL-4 and IL-17A synergized with TGF-β1 to induce epithelial cells re-entering cell cycle, and to promote epithelial to mesenchymal morphological transistion, and by which they enhanced the capacity of TGF-β1 to suppress E-cadherin expression, and to induce a-SMA expression in epithelial cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that this synergic action is coordinated by the regulation of ERK1/2 activity. Our results not only provide a novel insight into the understanding of the mechanisms underlying airway remodeling in asthmatic condition, but also have the potential for developing more effective therapeutic strategies against severe asthmatics in clinical settings. 
Effects of montelukast on subepithelial/peribronchial fibrosis in a murine model of ovalbumin induced chronic asthma.	Montelukast, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, is used commercially as a maintenance treatment for asthma and to relieve allergic symptoms. In this study, we evaluated the protective effects of montelukast against the airway inflammation and fibrosis using a murine model of ovalbumin (OVA) induced chronic asthma. The animals received OVA challenge three times a week for 4 weeks. Montelukast (30 mg/kg) was administrated orally once a day for 4 weeks. The administration of montelukast caused a reduction in elevated interleukin (IL)-4, IL-13, eotaxin, immunoglobulin (Ig), inflammatory cell infiltration into the airways, and mucus production after repeated OVA challenges. To investigate the antifibrotic mechanism of montelukast, we examined the expression of profibrotic mediators, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, and Smad3 proteins in the lung tissue using western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The administration of montelukast reduced the overexpression of profibrotic proteins in the lung tissue, which was confirmed by immnunohistochemistry. These results are consistent with a histopathological examination of lung tissue with Masson's trichrome stain. In conclusion, the administration of montelukast reduced airway inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis by reducing the release of Th2 cytokines and the expression of VEGF, TGF-β1/Smad3 in the lung tissue.
Ratios of regulatory T cells/T-helper 17 cells and transforming growth factor-β1/interleukin-17 to be associated with the development of hepatitis B virus-associated liver cirrhosis.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the association of the regulatory T cells (Treg)/T-helper (Th) 17 cells and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1)/interleukin-17 (IL-17) ratios with the survival and disease progression in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated liver cirrhosis (LC).
