Snapshots of catalysis: the structure of fructose-1,6-(bis)phosphate aldolase covalently bound to the substrate dihydroxyacetone phosphate.	Fructose-1,6-bis(phosphate) aldolase is an essential glycolytic enzyme found in all vertebrates and higher plants that catalyzes the cleavage of fructose 1,6-bis(phosphate) (Fru-1,6-P(2)) to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP). Mutations in the aldolase genes in humans cause hemolytic anemia and hereditary fructose intolerance. The structure of the aldolase-DHAP Schiff base has been determined by X-ray crystallography to 2.6 A resolution (R(cryst) = 0.213, R(free) = 0.249) by trapping the catalytic intermediate with NaBH(4) in the presence of Fru-1,6-P(2). This is the first structure of a trapped covalent intermediate for this essential glycolytic enzyme. The structure allows the elucidation of a comprehensive catalytic mechanism and identification of a conserved chemical motif in Schiff-base aldolases. The position of the bound DHAP relative to Asp33 is consistent with a role for Asp33 in deprotonation of the C4-hydroxyl leading to C-C bond cleavage. The methyl side chain of Ala31 is positioned directly opposite the C3-hydroxyl, sterically favoring the S-configuration of the substrate at this carbon. The "trigger" residue Arg303, which binds the substrate C6-phosphate group, is a ligand to the phosphate group of DHAP. The observed movement of the ligand between substrate and product phosphates may provide a structural link between the substrate cleavage and the conformational change in the C-terminus associated with product release. The position of Glu187 in relation to the DHAP Schiff base is consistent with a role for the residue in protonation of the hydroxyl group of the carbinolamine in the dehydration step, catalyzing Schiff-base formation. The overlay of the aldolase-DHAP structure with that of the covalent enzyme-dihydroxyacetone structure of the mechanistically similar transaldolase and KDPG aldolase allows the identification of a conserved Lys-Glu dyad involved in Schiff-base formation and breakdown. The overlay highlights the fact that Lys146 in aldolase is replaced in transaldolase with Asn35. The substitution in transaldolase stabilizes the enamine intermediate required for the attack of the second aldose substrate, changing the chemistry from aldolase to transaldolase.
Computational methods for functional site identification suggest a substrate access channel in transaldolase.	The homozygous deletion of Serine 171 results in the catalytic inactivation of the human transaldolase. Since Ser171 is in an outside loop, whereas the catalytic site is inside of the alpha/beta-barrel of the protein at least 15 A away, the loss of activity is difficult to explain. Two distinct computational methods are used to elucidate the potential origin of inactivation. Computational solvent mapping, which moves small organic molecules as probes around a protein surface and finds favorable binding positions, identifies the region around Ser171 as an important binding site. Three-dimensional cluster analysis, based both on a reference structure and multiple sequence alignment, shows that a patch of functionally important residues extends from Ser171 toward the catalytic site. Based on the findings of these two methods, we propose a novel ligand access path connecting these specific sites to the enzyme's active site. We also suggest that this mechanism may be aided by a significant conformational change involving the separation of two helices, alphaD and alphaG, in order to create an easy-access channel between the Ser171-related site and the active site. Further experimental procedures will be necessary to examine the biological feasibility of this proposed ligand shuttling path.
The characterization of transaldolase gene tal from Pichia stipitis and its heterologous expression in Fusarium oxysporum.	The 972 bp length of transaldolase gene tal was cloned from Pichia stipitis CICC1960, encoding a 323 amino acid protein with a calculated molecular mass of 35.36 kDa and isoelectric point of 5.20. Real time PCR analysis demonstrated that the mRNA transcript level of constitutive tal gene rise on xylose, glucose, fructose, mannose, galactose and sucrose as carbon source, respectively. Furthermore, the transcription of tal gene in P. stipitis on xylose was higher than on other carbon source, indicating that transaldolase plays a part in xylose utilization. To deeply study the tal gene biological function, it was expressed in Fusarium oxysporum CCTCC M209040. Recombinant transaldolase activity of transformant F. oxysporum M209040-Tal2 was about 0.52 U mg(-1) protein and was 1.57 times higher than that of the wild type F. oxysporum CCTCC M209040, indicating that the improvement of transaldolase activity in transformant was due to expression of the exogenous tal gene. Growth of transformant F. oxysporum M209040-Tal2 without selection pressure did not affect the level of hygromycin resistance of the transformants, suggesting that integrated tal gene was stable in mitosis. Fermentation trials of F. oxysporum M209040-Tal2 showed that the ethanol yield improved by 8.39 and 11.71% on glucose and xylose substrates, respectively, demonstrating that the expression of tal gene from P. stipitis CICC1960 in F. oxysporum CCTCC M209040 could improve ethanol production.
