Transgene expression and repression in transgenic rats bearing the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase-simian virus 40 T antigen or the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase-transforming growth factor-alpha constructs.	Transgenic Sprague-Dawley rats expressing either human transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha) or simian virus 40 large and small T antigen (TAg), each under the control of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) promoter, were developed as an approach to the study of the promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis in the presence of a transgene regulatable by diet and/or hormones. Five lines of PEPCK-TGFalpha transgenic rats were established, each genetic line containing from one to several copies of the transgene per haploid genome. Two PEPCK-TAg transgenic founder rats were obtained, each with multiple copies of the transgene. Expression of the transgene was undetectable in the TGFalpha transgenic rats and could not be induced when the animals were placed on a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet. The transgene was found to be highly methylated in all of these lines. No pathological alterations in the liver and intestine were observed at any time (up to 2 years) during the lives of these rats. One line of transgenic rats expressing the PEPCK-TAg transgene developed pancreatic islet cell hyperplasias and carcinomas, with few normal islets evident in the pancreas. This transgene is integrated as a hypomethylated tandem array of 10 to 12 copies on chromosome 8q11. Expression of large T antigen is highest in pancreatic neoplasms, but is also detectable in the normal brain, kidney, and liver. Mortality is most rapid in males, starting at 5 months of age and reaching 100% by 8 months. Morphologically, islet cell differentiation in the tumors ranges from poor to well differentiated, with regions of necrosis and fibrosis. Spontaneous metastasis of TAg-positive tumor cells to regional lymph nodes was observed. These studies indicate the importance of DNA methylation in the repression of specific transgenes in the rat. However, the expression of the PEPCK-TAg induces neoplastic transformation in islet cells, probably late in neuroendocrine cell differentiation. T antigen expression during neoplastic development may result in a pervasive change in the islet cell growth properties with selection of a transformed phenotype as a possible requirement for cell viability.
latheo encodes a subunit of the origin recognition complex and disrupts neuronal proliferation and adult olfactory memory when mutant.	The Drosophila latheo (lat) gene was identified in a behavioral screen for olfactory memory mutants. The original hypomorphic latP1 mutant (Boynton and Tully, 1992) shows a structural defect in adult brain. Homozygous lethal lat mutants lack imaginal discs, show little cell proliferation in the CNS of third instar larvae, and die as early pupae. latP1 was cloned, and all of the above mentioned defects of hypomorphic or homozygous lethal lat mutants were rescued with a lat+ transgene. lat encodes a novel protein with homology to a subunit of the origin recognition complex (ORC). Human and Drosophila LAT both associate with ORC2 and are related to yeast ORC3, suggesting that LAT functions in DNA replication during cell proliferation.
Cyclosporin A reduces the inflammatory response to a multi-mutant herpes simplex virus type-1 leading to improved transgene expression in sympathetic preganglionic neurons in hamsters.	Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) based vectors hold great promise for gene transfer to CNS neurons. Problems such as loss of transgene expression, vector-associated cytotoxicity and the immune response to the vector or encoded transgene still remain obstacles to success. We used a replication-defective, HSV-1 vector (14Hdelta3vhsZ) that was engineered to have reduced cytotoxicity and express recombinant beta-galactosidase. A previous study in our laboratory showed no evidence for cytotoxicity in infected neurons although an inflammatory infiltrate occurred around infected cells and transgene expression was lost between 5 and 8 days. The immune response consisted of a primary response at the site of inoculation (adrenal gland), and a secondary immune response in the spinal cord around infected adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons due to retrograde transport of the vector. We tested whether conventional immunosuppressants could reduce the secondary immune response, leading to improved transgene expression at the secondary CNS site. 14Hdelta3vhsZ was injected into the adrenal gland in hamsters 1 day after immunosuppressant treatment began. Non-drug treated, 14Hdelta3vhzZ-infected hamsters were used as controls. Cyclosporin A administration led to the most persistent beta-galactosidase activity in neurons at 5 and 8 days. Methylprednisolone treatment resulted in the greatest reduction in the inflammatory cell infiltrate but the numbers of infected neurons did not increase concomitantly. This suggested no direct relationship between extent of the inflammatory cell infiltrate and level of transgene expression. These data demonstrate the potential of cyclosporin A as an immunosuppressant adjunct treatment for HSV-1 vector-mediated gene transfer from a peripheral site to neurons in the spinal cord.
A Drosophila model of HIV-Tat-related pathogenicity.	To analyze the mechanism of Tat-mediated HIV pathogenicity, we produced a Drosophila melanogaster strain transgenic for HIV-tat gene and induced the expression of the protein during Drosophila development. By in vitro and in vivo experiments, we demonstrated that Tat specifically binds to tubulin via the MAP-binding domain of tubulin, and that this interaction delays the polymerization of tubulin and induces a premature stop to microtubule-dependent cytoplasmic streaming. The delay in the polymerization of microtubules, the tracks for the transport of the axes determinants, alters the positioning of the dorso-ventral axis as shown by the mislocalization of Gurken and Kinesin in oocyte of Drosophila after Tat induction. These results validate the use of Drosophila as a tool to study the molecular mechanism of viral gene products and suggest that Tat-tubulin interaction is responsible for neurodegenerative diseases associated with AIDS.
HNF-1alpha and endodermal transcription factors cooperatively activate Fabpl: MODY3 mutations abrogate cooperativity.	Hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)-1alpha plays a central role in intestinal and hepatic gene regulation and is required for hepatic expression of the liver fatty acid binding protein gene (Fabpl). An Fabpl transgene was directly activated through cognate sites by HNF-1alpha and HNF-1beta, as well as five other endodermal factors: CDX-1, C/EBPbeta, GATA-4, FoxA2, and HNF-4alpha. HNF-1alpha activated the Fabpl transgene by as much as 60-fold greater in the presence of the other five endodermal factors than in their absence, accounting for up to one-half the total transgene activation by the group of six factors. This degree of synergistic interaction suggests that multifactor cooperativity is a critical determinant of endodermal gene activation by HNF-1alpha. Mutations in HNF-1alpha that result in maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY3) provide evidence for the in vivo significance of these synergistic interactions. An R131Q HNF-1alpha MODY3 mutant exhibits complete loss of synergistic activation in concert with the other endodermal transcription factors despite wild-type transactivation ability in their absence. Furthermore, whereas wild-type HNF-1alpha exhibited pairwise cooperative synergy with each of the other five factors, the R131Q mutant could synergize only with GATA-4 and C/EBPbeta. Selective loss of synergy with other endodermal transcription factors accompanied by retention of native transactivation ability in an HNF-1alpha MODY mutant suggests in vivo significance for cooperative synergy.
Tissue-specific expression of cre recombinase from the Pax8 locus.	The transcription factor Pax8 is expressed in the developing thyroid gland, inner ear, kidney, and mid-hindbrain region. Pax8 mutant mice die only postnatally due to a thyroid gland defect. Here we report the generation and expression analysis of a Pax8(cre) allele. Cre recombinase activity was detected in known Pax8 expression domains of Pax8(cre/+) and Pax8(cre/cre) embryos carrying the Z/AP transgene, which expresses alkaline phosphatase only after Cre-mediated excision of lacZ sequences. Alkaline phosphatase expression was additionally detected in the adrenal gland and in the facial, vestibulocochlear, and cuneate nerves, which have so far not been associated with Pax8 expression. Our data indicate that the Pax8(cre) allele provides a novel important tool for conditional gene manipulation and lineage tracing in different Pax8 expression domains.
Morphology of auditory hair cells in guinea pig cochlea after transgene expression.	It is very important to determine if recombinant adenoviral vector (Ad) can damage the auditory hair cells in guinea pig cochlea after transgene expression. In this study, the scanning electron microscope was used to determine if there was loss of the auditory hair cells after Ad.LacZ (Ad5 containing Escherichia coli galactosidase) was inoculated into the cochlea through the round window membrane. Seven days later all inner and outer hair cells were found to express the LacZ gene. Except for the sparse loss of outer hair cells in the basal turn and the second turn, there was insignificant loss in the other turns. All inner hair cells were present. The damage to auditory hair cells resulting from intracochlear inoculation of Ad is limited, and this vector can be used as one of the ideal delivery tools in gene therapy of the cochlea.
Lentivirus vector-mediated expression of tumor-associated epitopes by human antigen presenting cells.	Directing the human immune system to recognize and eliminate tumor cells is the ultimate goal of cancer immunotherapy. Vaccinating patients with autologous antigen presenting cells (APC) expressing tumor-associated antigens (TAA) represents a promising approach for activating tumor-reactive T cells in vivo. In addition, APC expressing TAA provide a means of generating tumor-specific T cells in vitro, for therapeutic and diagnostic applications. Lentiviral vectors are attractive vehicles for introducing TAA-encoding genes into APC. In this study, lentiviral vectors expressing the reporter gene GFP or the melanoma-associated antigen tyrosinase were used to transduce three different kinds of human APC: monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DC), CD40L-activated B lymphocytes, and Epstein Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B lymphocytes. Using optimized transduction conditions for each cell type, tyrosinase was expressed at levels sufficient to stimulate antigen-specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted T cells from melanoma patients. While transduced EBV-B cells demonstrated the highest level of transgene expression, optimal T-cell recognition was achieved with transduced DC. Substituting the CAG promoter for PGK in lentiviral constructs enhanced transgene expression in DC and EBV-B cells, amplifying T cell recognition. Lentiviruses inducing sustained transgene expression with relatively low cellular toxicity and background viral gene expression may be ideal vectors for immunotherapeutic applications.
A transgenic marker for newly born granule cells in dentate gyrus.	Neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus continues into adulthood, yet little is known about the function of newly born neurons or how they integrate into an existing network of mature neurons. We made transgenic mice that selectively and transiently express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in newly born granule cells of the dentate gyrus under the transcriptional control of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) genomic sequences. Analysis of transgenic pedigrees with truncation or deletion mutations indicated that EGFP expression in the dentate gyrus required cryptic POMC promoter regions dispensable for arcuate hypothalamic or pituitary expression. Unlike arcuate neurons, dentate granule cells did not express the endogenous POMC gene. EGFP-positive neurons had immature properties, including short spineless dendrites and small action potentials. Colocalization with bromodeoxyuridine indicated that EGFP-labeled granule cells were approximately 2 weeks postmitotic. EGFP-labeled cells expressed markers for immature granule cells but not the glial marker GFAP. The number of EGFP-labeled neurons declined with age and increased with exercise, paralleling neurogenesis. Our results indicate that POMC-EGFP marks immature granule cells and that adult-generated granule cells integrate quite slowly into the hippocampal circuitry.
Increased blood pressure in transgenic mice expressing both human renin and angiotensinogen in the renal proximal tubule.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the physiological significance of a tissue renin-angiotensin system in the proximal tubule of the kidney. To accomplish this, we produced mice that express human renin (hREN) under the control of the kidney androgen-regulated promoter (KAP), which is androgen responsive. One of the lines expressed the hREN transgene primarily in the kidney. Renal expression of the transgene was undetectable in females but could be induced by testosterone treatment. Because the renin-angiotensin system is species specific, we bred KAP2-hREN mice with the mice expressing human angiotensinogen under the same promoter (KAP-hAGT) to produce offspring that expressed both transgenes. We measured mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) in the carotid artery of double-transgenic and control mice using radiotelemetry. Double-transgenic female mice had a normal baseline MAP (116 +/- 4 mmHg, n = 8), which increased by 15 mmHg after 2 wk of testosterone treatment, and returned to baseline after elimination of the testosterone pellet. The change in arterial pressure paralleled the change in plasma testosterone. There was no MAP change in testosterone-treated control littermates. We conclude that dual production of renin and angiotensinogen in the renal proximal tubule can result in a systemic increase in arterial pressure. These data support a role for a tissue-specific renin-angiotensin system in the renal proximal tubule that contributes to the regulation of systemic blood pressure.
Analysis of the murine 5-HT receptor gene promoter in vitro and in vivo.	The expression level of the 5-HT(1A) receptor gene (htr1a) in the central nervous system (CNS) is implicated in the aetiology and treatment of anxiety disorders and depression. Previous studies of the murine htr1a have revealed that its proximal promoter is GC rich and TATA-less. Several functional transcription factor binding sites, including MAZ and SP1 recognition sequences, have been identified. To further analyse the promoter of this receptor gene, additional upstream sequence information extending to -5.5 kb of the murine htr1a was generated and promoter fragments extending to -20 kb were analysed for activity in cell culture and transgenic animals. Promoter fragments greater than 4.5 kb in length were active in 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA positive cells and inactive in 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA negative cells. Smaller fragments were not able to confer this specificity. In agreement, using additive transgenesis to drive LacZ expression in vivo, CNS specific reporter gene expression was found with these longer constructs. Transgene expression in the 4.5- and 20-kb mouse lines resembled the endogenous htr1a expression pattern, whereas the 5.5-kb mouse lines surprisingly revealed strongly reduced expression. None of the three constructs was prone to confer ectopic expression, however, variation of expression between the transgenic lines was observed. Using colocalization studies we analysed the degree of concurrence of transgenic and endogenous htr1a expression brought about by these three different constructs. The highest degrees of colocalization were observed in mice harbouring the 20-kb construct, suggesting a large promoter fragment is required to faithfully direct transgene expression in a 5-HT(1A) receptor like pattern.
Systemic administration of attenuated Salmonella choleraesuis carrying thrombospondin-1 gene leads to tumor-specific transgene expression, delayed tumor growth and prolonged survival in the murine melanoma model.	Some anaerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria have been used experimentally as anticancer agents because of their selective growth in the hypoxia regions of solid tumors after systemic administration. We have previously shown the feasibility of using attenuated Salmonella choleraesuis as a gene delivery vector. In this study, we exploited S. choleraesuis carrying thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) gene for treating primary melanoma and experimental pulmonary metastasis in the syngeneic murine B16F10 melanoma model. Systemic administration of S. choleraesuis allowed targeted gene delivery to tumors. The bacteria accumulated preferentially in tumors over livers and spleens at ratios ranging from 1000:1 to 10,000:1. The level of transgene expression via S. choleraesuis-mediated gene transfer in tumors could reach more than 1800-fold higher than in livers and spleens. Notably, bacterial accumulation was also observed in the lungs with metastatic nodules, but not in healthy lungs. When administered into mice bearing subcutaneous or pulmonary metastatic melanomas, S. choleraesuis carrying TSP-1 gene significantly inhibited tumor growth and enhanced survival of the mice. Immunohistochemical studies in the tumors from these mice displayed decreased intratumoral microvessel density. Taken together, these findings suggest that TSP-1 gene therapy delivered by S. choleraesuis may be effective for the treatment of primary as well as metastatic melanomas.
Suppression of peritoneal implantation of gastric cancer cells by adenovirus vector-mediated NK4 expression.	Peritoneal dissemination is the most common mode of metastasis in gastric cancer. We previously reported the importance of milky spots (MS), peritoneal lymphoid tissues, as selective sites of cancer implantation in peritoneal dissemination. In the present study, we first demonstrated that intraperitoneal injection of adenovirus vector encoding the GFP gene into tumor-free nude mice resulted in GFP expression at omental and mesenteric MS; MS macrophages were target cells for adenovirus infection. We confirmed that intraperitoneal injection of adenovirus vector encoding the NK4 gene (AdNK4) resulted in NK4 production localized to the peritoneal cavity, especially the omentum. Adenovirus vector-mediated MS-selective transgene expression was markedly impaired in tumor-bearing mice whose MS had already been replaced by infiltrating cancer cells. However, prior injection of AdNK4 successfully inhibited MS-selective cancer cell implantation, resulting in suppression of peritoneal dissemination and prolongation of survival. Adenovirus vector-mediated MS-selective delivery of a therapeutic gene may prevent peritoneal dissemination of gastric cancer.
Intratumoral administration of immature dendritic cells following the adenovirus vector encoding CD40 ligand elicits significant regression of established myeloma.	Our previous study showed that J558 myeloma cells engineered CD40L lost their tumorigenicity in syngeneic mice, and the inoculation of J558/CD40L tumor cells further led to the protective immunity against wild tumors. In the present study, we investigated whether the vaccine can exert more efficient antitumor immunity by combination with adenovirus mediated CD40L gene therapy and immature dendritic cells (iDCs). The results demonstrated that intratumoral administration of iDCs 2 days after AdVCD40L injection, not only significantly suppressed the tumor growth, but also eradiated the established tumors in 40% of the mice. The potent antitumor effect produced by the combination therapy correlated with high expression of MHC, costimulatory and Fas molecules on J558 cells, which was derived from CD40L transgene expression. In addition, transgene CD40L expression could dramatically induce J558 cell apoptosis. Effectively capturing apoptotic bodies by iDCs in vivo could induce DC maturation, prime tumor-specific CTLs and tend to Th1-type immune response. Finally, in vivo depletion experimentation suggested both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were involved in mediating the antitumor immune responses of combined treatment of AdVCD40L and iDCs, with CD8+ T cells being the major effector. These findings could be beneficial for designing strategies of DCs vaccine and CD40L for anticancer immunotherapy.
Vascular administration of adenoviral vector soaked in absorbable gelatin sponge particles (GSP) prolongs the transgene expression in hepatocytes.	Transcatheter hepatic arterial chemoembolization using emulsions composed of anticancer agents and gelatin sponges (GS) has been an efficient and safe palliative treatment for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We employed catheter-mediated left hepatic arterial embolization (CHAE) to increase transduction efficiency of adenoviral vector in canine hepatocytes. The emulsion was prepared by mixing pieces of GSP and adenoviral vectors expressing recombinant beta-galactosidase (Ad.LacZ) or human hepatocyte growth factor (Ad.hHGF). After the left hepatic artery was catheterized under angiography, CHAE with Ad.LacZ or Ad.hHGF was performed. Livers were removed and stained for LacZ activity on day 7. The expression pattern of LacZ staining was either scarce or patchy around the central hilum of the hepatic artery, or was homogeneously distributed in whole lobes, depending on whether large or small pieces of GSP were used. Hematological and serum biochemical changes during CHAE exhibited only a few effects. The chronological measurement of serum HGF concentration showed that the duration of transgene expression was greater after CHAE with Ad.hHGF. A similar pattern of transgene expression was observed in a rat model after hepatic arterial embolization with differential doses of Ad.hHGF soaked in GSP. These results suggest that hepatic arterial embolization by transcatheter mediated infusion with a mixture of adenovirus-GSP could be used for human HCC.
Smooth muscle cell expression of a constitutive active form of human Rac 1 accelerates cutaneous wound repair.	Hyperoxia has been shown to improve wound healing; however, the mechanism for such therapeutic effects of oxygen remains hypothetical. Rac 1 regulates a wide variety of cellular activities, including cell proliferation and migration, and also is a key regulator for the activity of the nicotinamide dinucleotide phosphate oxidase the enzyme complex responsible for the production of a large fraction of cellular superoxide.
Inheritance of a recessive transgene-associated character controlling albinism in transgenic bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.).	We identified a transgenic line exhibiting albinism during our work to introduce genes through genetic engineering in dry bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). The transgenic mother plant (R0) presented a normal phenotype and generated albino and normal green plants in the first generation (R1). The segregation ratio of the albino character in the R1 and R2 generations fitted the expected ratio for a character controlled by a single recessive gene linked to a foreign gus gene, suggesting that albinism could be a consequence of insertional mutation caused by introduction of the exogenous gene. Analysis by electron microscope revealed that the albino cells possessed no chloroplasts and a greater number of mitochondria when compared to normal green plants. This transgenic bean line may be used in understanding the genetic control of chloroplast genesis, for acquiring additional knowledge of genomic structure or in physiological studies. This is the first described transgene-associated mutant bean plant.
Intravascular adenovirus-mediated lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 gene transfer reduces neointima formation in balloon-denuded rabbit aorta.	Postangioplasty restenosis is a multifactorial process and involves mechanisms such as inflammation and stimulation of the expression of growth factors. Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A(2) (Lp-PLA(2)) can modify inflammatory responses by hydrolyzing phospholipids with shortened and/or oxidized sn-2 residues. In this study, we tested a hypothesis that adenovirus-mediated Lp-PLA(2) gene transfer can reduce restenosis in rabbits. Aortas of cholesterol-fed NZW rabbits were balloon-denuded and intra-arterial gene transfer was performed using Dispatch catheter with Lp-PLA(2) or LacZ adenoviruses (1.15 x 10(10)pfu). Intima/media ratio (I/M), histology and cell proliferation were analyzed. Two weeks after the gene transfer I/M in the LacZ-transduced control group was 0.45+/-0.05 but Lp-PLA(2) gene transfer reduced I/M to 0.25+/-0.03. At four weeks time point I/M in the Lp-PLA(2) group (0.34+/-0.05) was also lower than in the LacZ group (0.53+/-0.06). Plasma Lp-PLA(2) activity was increased in the Lp-PLA(2) group (48.2+/-4.2) as compared to the LacZ group (33.6+/-3.51) at two weeks time point. Transgene expression was detected in the arterial wall two and four weeks after the procedure. Apoptosis was higher in the control vessels than in the Lp-PLA(2) group at two weeks time point. In conclusion, local adenovirus-mediated Lp-PLA(2) gene transfer resulted in a significant reduction in neointima formation in balloon-denuded rabbit aorta and may be useful for the prevention of restenosis after arterial manipulations.
A single-component CD40-targeted adenovirus vector displays highly efficient transduction and activation of dendritic cells in a human skin substrate system.	Dendritic cell (DC) based tumor vaccination usually involves the administration of ex vivo generated autologous DC. Transduction of DC by viral vectors in vivo has been proposed as a more standardized and easily clinically applicable approach. Previously, we have reported that an Ad5 vector targeted to CD40 via genetic capsid incorporation of CD40L achieves selective transduction of DC in vitro. In the present study, we evaluate the ability of this vector to deliver transgenes in a stringent human substrate system. We report the capacity of this CD40-targeted vector to infect, with high efficiency, cutaneous DC resident in human skin explants, while simultaneously inducing their activation and maturation. This latest generation of single-component, fully targeted vectors should make feasible the clinical testing of in vivo DC-targeted vaccines.
Dependence of transgene expression and the relative buffering capacity of dextran-grafted polyethylenimine.	Branched polyethylenimine (PEI) is a cationic polymer capable of forming self-assembly complexes with DNA to become a highly efficient agent used in gene delivery. Conjugation through the primary amines of PEI is a most commonly used approach further to enable the targeting delivery or to improve the stability of the DNA-polymer complexes. An understanding of how the conjugation affects the transfection mechanisms can help in the design of efficient polycationic vectors. In order to investigate the effects of conjugation, folate and the dextrans of molecular weight 1500 (dex-1500) and 10 000 (dex-10000) were used to prepare three different types of PEI conjugates: dextran-PEI, folate-PEI, and folate-dextran-PEI, which were subsequently employed to form complexes with DNA. These conjugates were found to cause less cytotoxicity than the unmodified PEI as revealed by the MTT method, and to be able to deliver an approximate amount of ethidium monoazide labeled plasmid into the cells. The efficiencies of green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression mediated by these conjugates, however, were less efficient than those mediated by the unmodified PEI. A titration experiment suggested that conjugation through the primary amines of PEI resulted in the loss of relative buffering capacity, a major factor aiding the release of plasmid from the endosomes, presumably because the conjugated molecules hindered the protonation of the PEI conjugates. When a quantitative relationship between relative buffering capacity and transfection efficiency was examined, a threshold of relative buffering capacity, around 50% of the unmodified PEI, was noted to be required for minimal detection of GFP positive cells. In addition, the cytotoxicity could be also related to the relative buffering capacity in an approximately linear trend. It is thus concluded that the severe loss of relative buffering capacity by conjugation might be attributed to the inefficiency of transgene expression mediated by the dextran-PEI conjugates.
Astrocyte-derived transgene GDNF promotes complete and long-term survival of adult facial motoneurons following avulsion and differentially regulates the expression of transcription factors of AP-1 and ATF/CREB families.	Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent survival factor for motoneurons (MNs). We have previously demonstrated that overexpression of GDNF in astrocytes of GFAP-GDNF mice promotes long-term survival of neonatal MNs after facial nerve axotomy. In the present study, we investigated whether astrocyte-derived GDNF could also have a neuroprotective effect on adult MNs following facial nerve avulsion. We also examined avulsion- and GDNF-induced changes in the expression pattern of several members of the AP-1 and ATF/CREB families of transcription factors, which are involved in the fate determination of neurons following injury. We demonstrated that GDNF promotes complete rescue of avulsed MNs for at least 4 months post-injury. Transgene GDNF significantly upregulates c-Jun expression in naive MNs, further upregulates injury-induced c-Jun expression in facial MNs, and results in its activation in most surviving MNs. No significant changes were found in c-Fos expression. We found that GDNF has an opposing effect on ATF2 and ATF3 expression. It dramatically downregulates increased levels of ATF3 in response to injury, whereas the expression of ATF2, which is normally reduced after injury, is completely preserved in GFAP-GDNF mice. Our data suggest that maintenance of high levels of ATF2 in injured MNs could be crucial in modulating c-Jun function, and c-Jun/ATF2 signaling could be involved in GDNF-mediated survival of mature MNs.
A unique subpopulation of Tbr1-expressing deep layer neurons in the developing cerebral cortex.	Cells of the subplate (SP) and deep cortical plate (CP) are among the pioneer neurons of the developing cerebral cortex, an important group of early-born cells that impact cortical organization and function. Similarities between pioneer neurons in different cortical positions and heterogeneities in pioneer cells in the same cortical location, however, have made it difficult to appreciate the characteristics and functions of particular sets of these cells. Here, we provide a tool to illuminate a unique subset of SP and deep CP neurons: expression of a Tbrain-1 (Tbr1)-driven transgene. Transgene-expressing cells were consistently positive for neuronal but not glial markers, were born early in corticogenesis, representing just a subset of SP and deep CP neurons, were morphologically complex during the formation of the cortex, and were maintained into maturity. This analysis reveals a novel group of pioneer neurons and demonstrates unrecognized diversity within this cortical population. In the future, this information will help to uncover the roles of discrete pioneer populations in cortical development.
Gene expression profile of DNA binding protein A transgenic mice.	We recently reported that the expression of dbpA (DNA binding protein A) is associated with advanced stages of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and that its transcription is positively regulated by E2F1, which is also implicated in hepatocarcinogenesis. To study the in vivo effect of dbpA on hepatocarcinogenesis, we generated the dbpA-transgenic mouse that specifically expressed a transgene in hepatocytes. Here, we studied the effect of dbpA on the expression of other cellular genes by using microarray analyses. The expression profiles from livers of 31- and 32-week-old male transgenic mice [Tg(+)] that did not show any morphological changes and from livers of their male wild-type littermates [Tg(-)] were compared. Expression differences detected by microarray analyses were validated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using total RNA samples from livers of 3 pairs of Tg(+) and (-) mice. The 11 up-regulated genes included 7 carcinogenesis-related genes (Igfbp1, Tff3, Hpx, Orm2, Ctsl, Plg, Jdp1), and the 9 down-regulated genes included Car3 that is associated with the protection of cells from attack by oxygen radicals. We confirmed that the expression of Igfbp1 (insulin like growth factor binding protein 1) was reduced by siRNA targeting dbpA in the human HCC cell line. In conclusion, our present data suggested that dbpA could be positively involved in carcinogenesis by changing the expression profiles of cellular genes.
The claudin superfamily protein nsy-4 biases lateral signaling to generate left-right asymmetry in C. elegans olfactory neurons.	Early in C. elegans development, signaling between bilaterally symmetric AWC olfactory neurons causes them to express different odorant receptor genes. AWC left-right asymmetry is stochastic: in each animal, either the left or the right neuron randomly becomes AWC(ON), and the other neuron becomes AWC(OFF). Here we show that the nsy-4 gene coordinates the lateral signaling that diversifies AWC(ON) and AWC(OFF) neurons. nsy-4 mutants generate 2 AWC(OFF) neurons, as expected if communication between the AWC neurons is lost, whereas overexpression of nsy-4 results in 2 AWC(ON) neurons. nsy-4 encodes a transmembrane protein related to the gamma subunits of voltage-activated calcium channels and the claudin superfamily; it interacts genetically with calcium channels and antagonizes a calcium-to-MAP kinase cascade in the neuron that becomes AWC(ON). Genetic mosaic analysis indicates that nsy-4 functions both cell-autonomously and nonautonomously in signaling between AWC neurons, providing evidence for lateral signaling and feedback that coordinate asymmetric receptor choice.
Variation of baculovirus-harbored transgene transcription among mesenchymal stem cell-derived progenitors leads to varied expression.	We have previously demonstrated that baculovirus can efficiently transduce human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and MSCs-derived adipogenic, chondrogenic, and osteogenic progenitors without compromising the differentiation capacity. Remarkably, the transgene expression level and duration varied widely with the differentiation states at which the progenitors were transduced. However, whether the variation was a general phenomenon and what caused the variation were unclear. Here we demonstrated that transduction of the MSCs and MSC-derived progenitors using baculoviruses carrying egfp driven by CMV, EF-1alpha or CAG promoter resulted in a general trend of varied expression, that is, the chondrogenic progenitors allowed for the poorest expression while the adipogenic progenitors conferred the best expression. Quantification of the nuclear and cytoplasmic egfp gene copy numbers by quantitative real-time PCR revealed that the varied expression did not arise from the discrepancies in gene delivery efficiency nor was it due to the disparities in nuclear transport efficiency. In contrast, the transcription levels paralleled the overall expression levels. These data suggested that although the egfp genes could be efficiently delivered into the nuclei of chondrogenic progenitors, they were not transcribed as well as they were in the adipogenic progenitors. In conclusion, the rapidly altering cellular transcription machinery in the course of differentiation progression predominantly led to the varied expression levels.
Ca2+ permeability of the channel pore is not essential for the delta2 glutamate receptor to regulate synaptic plasticity and motor coordination.	The delta2 glutamate receptor (GluRdelta2) plays a crucial role in cerebellar functions; mice with a disrupted GluRdelta2 gene (GluRdelta2-/-) display impaired synapse formation and abrogated long-term depression (LTD). However, the mechanisms by which GluRdelta2 functions have remained unclear. Because a GluRdelta2 mutation in lurcher mice causes channel activities characterized by Ca2+ permeability, GluRdelta2 was previously suggested to serve as a Ca2+-permeable channel in Purkinje cells. To test this hypothesis, we introduced a GluRdelta2 transgene, which had a mutation (Gln618Arg) in the putative channel pore, into GluRdelta2-/- mice. Interestingly, the mutant transgene rescued the major functional and morphological abnormalities of GluRdelta2-/- Purkinje cells, such as enhanced paired-pulse facilitation, impaired LTD at parallel fibre synapses, and sustained innervation by multiple climbing fibres. These results indicate that the conserved glutamine residue in the channel pore, which is crucial for all Ca2+-permeable glutamate receptors, is not essential for the function of GluRdelta2.
Reporter expression, induced by a growth hormone promoter-driven Cre recombinase (rGHp-Cre) transgene, questions the developmental relationship between somatotropes and lactotropes in the adult mouse pituitary gland.	This report describes the development and validation of the rGHp-Cre transgenic mouse that allows for selective Cre-mediated recombination of loxP-modified alleles in the GH-producing cells of the anterior pituitary. Initial screening of the rGHp-Cre parental line showed Cre mRNA was specifically expressed in the anterior pituitary gland of adult Cre+/- mice and cephalic extracts of e17 Cre+/- fetuses. Heterozygote rGHp-Cre transgenic mice were crossbred with Z/AP reporter mice to generate Cre+/-,Z/AP+/- offspring. In this model system, the GH promoter-driven, Cre-mediated recombination of the Z/AP reporter leads to human placental alkaline phosphatase (hPLAP) expression that serves to mark cells that currently produce GH, in addition to cells that would have differentiated from GH cells but currently do not express the GH gene. Double immunocytochemistry of adult male and female Cre+/-,Z/AP+/- pituitary cells revealed the majority (approximately 99%) of GH-producing cells of the anterior pituitary also expressed hPLAP, whereas ACTH-, TSH-, and LH-producing cells were negative for hPLAP, confirming previous reports that corticotropes, thyrotropes, and gonadotropes develop independently of the somatotrope lineage. A small subset (approximately 10%) of the prolactin-producing cells was positive for hPLAP, consistent with previous reports showing lactotropes can arise from somatotropes during pituitary development. However, the fact that 90% of prolactin-producing cells were negative for hPLAP suggests that the majority of lactotropes in the adult mouse pituitary gland develop independently of the somatotrope lineage. In addition to developmental studies, the rGHp-Cre transgenic mouse will provide a versatile tool to study the role of a variety of genes in somatotrope function and neoplastic transformation.
The archetypal R90C CADASIL-NOTCH3 mutation retains NOTCH3 function in vivo.	Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is the most prominent known cause of inherited stroke and vascular dementia in human adult. The disease gene, NOTCH3, encodes a transmembrane receptor primarily expressed in arterial smooth muscle cells (SMC). Pathogenic mutations lead to an odd number of cysteine residues within the NOTCH3 extracellular domain (NOTCH3(ECD)), and are associated with progressive accumulation of NOTCH3(ECD) at the SMC plasma membrane. The murine homolog, Notch3, is dispensable for viability but required post-natally for the elaboration and maintenance of arteries. How CADASIL-associated mutations impact NOTCH3 function remains a fundamental, yet unresolved issue. Particularly, whether NOTCH3(ECD) accumulation may titrate the ligand and inhibit the normal pathway is unknown. Herein, using genetic analyses in the mouse, we assessed the functional significance of an archetypal CADASIL-associated mutation (R90C), in vivo, in brain arteries. We show that transgenic mouse lines expressing either the wild-type human NOTCH3 or the mutant R90C human NOTCH3, at comparable and physiological levels, can rescue the arterial defects of Notch3-/- mice to similar degrees. In vivo assessment of NOTCH3/RBP-Jk activity provides evidence that the mutant NOTCH3 protein exhibits normal level of activity in brain arteries. Remarkably, the mutant NOTCH3 protein remains functional and does not exhibit dominant negative interfering activity, even when NOTCH3(ECD) accumulates. Collectively, these data suggest a model that invokes novel pathogenic roles for the mutant NOTCH3 protein rather than compromised NOTCH3 function as the primary determinant of the CADASIL arteriopathy.
The codA transgene for glycinebetaine synthesis increases the size of flowers and fruits in tomato.	The tolerance of various species of plant to abiotic stress has been enhanced by genetic engineering with certain genes. However, the use of such transgenes is often associated with negative effects on growth and productivity under non-stress conditions. The codA gene from Arthrobacter globiformis is of particular interest with respect to the engineering of desirable productive traits in crop plants. The expression of this gene in tomato plants resulted in significantly enlarged flowers and fruits under non-stress conditions. The enlargement of flowers and fruits was associated with high levels of glycinebetaine that accumulated in reproductive organs, such as flower buds and fruits. The enlargement of flowers was related to an increase in the size and number of cells, and reflected the pleiotropic effect of the codA transgene on the expression of genes involved in the regulation of cell division.
OTX2 mutation in a patient with anophthalmia, short stature, and partial growth hormone deficiency: functional studies using the IRBP, HESX1, and POU1F1 promoters.	OTX2 is a transcription factor gene essential for eye development. Although recent studies suggest the involvement of OTX2 in pituitary function, there is no report demonstrating a positive role of OTX2 in the pituitary function.
E2F1 inhibits c-Myc-driven apoptosis via PIK3CA/Akt/mTOR and COX-2 in a mouse model of human liver cancer.	Resistance to apoptosis is essential for cancer growth. We previously reported that hepatic coexpression of c-Myc and E2F1, 2 key regulators of proliferation and apoptosis, enhanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development in transgenic mice. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying oncogenic cooperation between c-Myc and E2F1 in relationship to human liver cancer.
Malignant transformation of Slp65-deficient pre-B cells involves disruption of the Arf-Mdm2-p53 tumor suppressor pathway.	The adapter protein Slp65 is a key component of the precursor-B (pre-B) cell receptor. Slp65-deficient mice spontaneously develop pre-B cell leukemia, but the mechanism by which Slp65(-/-) pre-B cells become malignant is unknown. Loss of Btk, a Tec-family kinase that cooperates with Slp65 as a tumor suppressor, synergizes with deregulation of the c-Myc oncogene during lymphoma formation. Here, we report that the presence of the immunoglobulin heavy chain transgene V(H)81X prevented tumor development in Btk(-/-)Slp65(-/-) mice. This finding paralleled the reported effect of a human immunoglobulin heavy chain transgene on lymphoma development in Emu-myc mice, expressing transgenic c-Myc. Because activation of c-Myc strongly selects for spontaneous inactivation of the p19(Arf)-Mdm2-p53 tumor suppressor pathway, we investigated whether disruption of this pathway is a common alteration in Slp65(-/-) pre-B cell tumors. We found that combined loss of Slp65 and p53 in mice transformed pre-B cells very efficiently. Aberrations in p19(Arf), Mdm2, or p53 expression were found in all Slp65(-/-) (n = 17) and Btk(-/-)Slp65(-/-) (n = 32) pre-B cell leukemias analyzed. In addition, 9 of 10 p53(-/-)Slp65(-/-) pre-B cell leukemias manifested significant Mdm2 protein expression. These data indicate that malignant transformation of Slp65(-/-) pre-B cells involves disruption of the p19(Arf)-Mdm2-p53 tumor suppressor pathway.
mpeg1 promoter transgenes direct macrophage-lineage expression in zebrafish.	Macrophages and neutrophils play important roles during the innate immune response, phagocytosing invading microbes and delivering antimicrobial compounds to the site of injury. Functional analyses of the cellular innate immune response in zebrafish infection/inflammation models have been aided by transgenic lines with fluorophore-marked neutrophils. However, it has not been possible to study macrophage behaviors and neutrophil/macrophage interactions in vivo directly because there has been no macrophage-only reporter line. To remove this roadblock, a macrophage-specific marker was identified (mpeg1) and its promoter used in mpeg1-driven transgenes. mpeg1-driven transgenes are expressed in macrophage-lineage cells that do not express neutrophil-marking transgenes. Using these lines, the different dynamic behaviors of neutrophils and macrophages after wounding were compared side-by-side in compound transgenics. Macrophage/neutrophil interactions, such as phagocytosis of senescent neutrophils, were readily observed in real time. These zebrafish transgenes provide a new resource that will contribute to the fields of inflammation, infection, and leukocyte biology.
Forced notch signaling inhibits commissural axon outgrowth in the developing chick central nerve system.	A collection of in vitro evidence has demonstrated that Notch signaling plays a key role in the growth of neurites in differentiated neurons. However, the effects of Notch signaling on axon outgrowth in an in vivo condition remain largely unknown.
Adenoviral therapy is more effective in gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic cancer than in gemcitabine-sensitive cells.	Although gemcitabine is the standard treatment for pancreatic cancer, this particular type of cancer develops rapidly and has intrinsic chemoresistance. Chemoresistance plays a critical role in tumor progression, invasion and migration. Nevertheless, the effect of adenoviral therapy on chemoresistant cancer cells has not been studied. In this study, we compared the efficacy of adenoviral therapy in parental and chemoresistant pancreatic cancer cells.
Differential degradation of full-length and cleaved ataxin-7 fragments in a novel stable inducible SCA7 model.	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 (SCA7) is one of nine neurodegenerative disorders caused by expanded polyglutamine repeats, and a common toxic gain-of-function mechanism has been proposed. Proteolytic cleavage of several polyglutamine proteins has been identified and suggested to modulate the polyglutamine toxicity. In this study, we show that full-length and cleaved fragments of the SCA7 disease protein ataxin-7 (ATXN7) are differentially degraded. We found that the ubiquitin-proteosome system (UPS) was essential for the degradation of full-length endogenous ATXN7 or transgenic full-length ATXN7 with a normal or expanded glutamine repeat in both HEK 293T and stable PC12 cells. However, a similar contribution by UPS and autophagy was found for the degradation of proteolytically cleaved ATXN7 fragments. Furthermore, in our novel stable inducible PC12 model, induction of mutant ATXN7 expression resulted in toxicity and this toxicity was worsened by inhibition of either UPS or autophagy. In contrast, pharmacological activation of autophagy could ameliorate the ATXN7-induced toxicity. Based on our findings, we propose that both UPS and autophagy are important for the reduction of mutant ataxin-7-induced toxicity, and enhancing ATXN7 clearance through autophagy could be used as a potential therapeutic strategy in SCA7.
The amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 8 protein, VAP, is required for ER protein quality control.	A familial form of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS8) is caused by a point mutation (P56S) in the vesicle-associated membrane protein associated protein B (VapB). Human VapB and Drosophila Vap-33-1 (Vap) are homologous type II transmembrane proteins that are localized to the ER. However, the precise consequences of the defects associated with the P56S mutation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and its role in the pathology of ALS are not well understood. Here we show that Vap is required for ER protein quality control (ERQC). Loss of Vap in flies shows various ERQC associated defects, including protein accumulation, ER expansion, and ER stress. We also show that wild type Vap, but not the ALS8 mutant Vap, interacts with a lipid-binding protein, Oxysterol binding protein (Osbp), and that Vap is required for the proper localization of Osbp to the ER. Restoring the expression of Osbp in the ER suppresses the defects associated with loss of Vap and the ALS8 mutant Vap. Hence, we propose that the ALS8 mutation impairs the interaction of Vap with Osbp, resulting in hypomorphic defects that might contribute to the pathology of ALS8. 
The transmission rate of the lacI transgene from the Big Blue mouse.	Since transgenic mice are being used to analyze somatic and germinal mutation rates in vivo, it is of interest to know to what extent these mice are normal or abnormal in any way. During experiments designed to compare the mutational response of the transgene and an endogenous gene, Big Blue mice hemizygous for the transgene were bred to create a hybrid mouse in which the comparisons could be made. The fraction of these mice that inherited the transgene was 37% rather than the Mendelian expectation of 50%.
Grafts of fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete NGF, BDNF, NT-3, or basic FGF elicit differential responses in the adult spinal cord.	Neuronal and axonal responses to neurotrophic factors in the developing spinal cord have been relatively well characterized, but little is known about adult spinal responses to neurotrophic factors. We genetically modified primary rat fibroblasts to produce either nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), then grafted these neurotrophic factor-secreting cells into the central gray matter of the spinal cord in adult rats. Spinal cord lesions were not made prior to grafting. From 2 wk to 6 mo later, sensory neurites of dorsal root origin extensively penetrated NGF-, NT-3-, and bFGF-producing grafts, whereas BDNF-secreting grafts elicited no growth responses. Putative noradrenergic neurites also penetrated NGF-secreting cell grafts. Local motor and corticospinal motor axons did not penetrate any of the neurotrophic factor-secreting grafts. These results indicate that unlesioned or minimally lesioned adult spinal cord sensory and putative noradrenergic populations retain significant neurotrophic factor responsiveness, whereas motor neurites are comparatively resistant even to those neurotrophic factors to which they exhibit survival dependence during development. Grafts of genetically modified cells can be a useful tool for characterizing neurotrophic factor responsiveness in the adult spinal cord and designing strategies to promote axonal regeneration after injury.
Multiple restricted origin of oligodendrocytes.	The plp gene encodes the proteolipid protein and its alternatively spliced product DM-20, major proteins of CNS myelin. In the mouse, plp/dm-20 transcripts are expressed beginning at embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) by restricted foci of germinative neuroepithelial cells. To determine the identity of the neural precursors expressing plp/dm- 20, a zeomycin resistance gene fused to the lacZ reporter was expressed in transgenic mice under the control of the plp regulatory sequences. In the three different lines generated, the pattern of beta-galactosidase expression was similar and superimposable on the expression pattern of endogenous plp/dm-20. Both in vivo and in vitro, the transgene was expressed by O4(+) pre-oligodendrocytes, and later by RIP+ differentiated oligodendrocytes, but not by neuronal cells, astrocytes, or radial glial cells. After zeomycin selection, a dramatic enrichment in O4(+) pre-oligodendrocytes was observed in cultures derived from E12.5 transgenic embryos. This enrichment indicates the oligodendroglial specification of neural precursors that continuously express plp/dm-20. Early plp/dm-20-expressing precursors, however, appear to be a separate population from previously described PDGFRalpha oligodendrocyte precursors, as shown by the striking differences in their (1) patterns of distribution and (2) responsiveness to PDGF. These data suggest that oligodendrocytes have a plural origin and that early plp/dm-20 defines one of the neural lineages generating oligodendrocytes.
Epstein-Barr virus LMP2A drives B cell development and survival in the absence of normal B cell receptor signals.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) establishes a persistent latent infection in peripheral B lymphocytes in humans and is associated with a variety of malignancies and proliferative disorders. Latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) is one of only two viral proteins expressed in latently infected B lymphocytes in vivo. LMP2A blocks B cell receptor (BCR) signal transduction in vitro by binding the Syk and Lyn protein tyrosine kinases. To analyze the significance of LMP2A expression in vivo, transgenic mice with B cell lineage expression of LMP2A were generated. LMP2A expression results in the bypass of normal B lymphocyte developmental checkpoints allowing immunoglobulin-negative cells to colonize peripheral lymphoid organs, indicating that LMP2A possesses a constitutive signaling activity in nontransformed cells.
Targeted overexpression of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase increases cardiac contractility in transgenic mouse hearts.	Cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure are known to be associated with a reduction in Ca2+-ATPase pump levels of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). To determine whether, and to what extent, alterations in Ca2+ pump numbers can affect contraction and relaxation parameters of the heart, we have overexpressed the cardiac SR Ca2+-ATPase specifically in the mouse heart using the alpha-myosin heavy chain promoter. Analysis of 2 independent transgenic lines demonstrated that sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase isoform (SERCA2a) mRNA levels were increased 3.88+/-0. 4-fold and 7.90+/-0.2-fold over those of the control mice. SERCA2a protein levels were increased by 1.31+/-0.05-fold and 1.54+/-0. 05-fold in these lines despite high levels of mRNA, suggesting that complex regulatory mechanisms may determine the SERCA2a pump levels. The maximum velocity of Ca2+ uptake (Vmax) was increased by 37%, demonstrating that increased pump levels result in increased SR Ca2+ uptake function. However, the apparent affinity of the SR Ca2+-ATPase for Ca2+ remains unchanged in transgenic hearts. To evaluate the effects of overexpression of the SR Ca2+ pump on cardiac contractility, we used the isolated perfused work-performing heart model. The transgenic hearts showed significantly higher myocardial contractile function, as indicated by increased maximal rates of pressure development for contraction (+dP/dt) and relaxation (-dP/dt), together with shortening of the normalized time to peak pressure and time to half relaxation. Measurements of intracellular free calcium concentration and contractile force in trabeculae revealed a doubling of Ca2+ transient amplitude, with a concomitant boost in contractility. The present study demonstrates that increases in SERCA2a pump levels can directly enhance contractile function of the heart by increasing SR Ca2+ transport.
