A prospective, double-blind, randomized trial of midazolam versus haloperidol versus lorazepam in the chemical restraint of violent and severely agitated patients.	To determine if midazolam is superior to lorazepam or haloperidol in the management of violent and severely agitated patients in the emergency department. Superiority would be determined if midazolam resulted in a significantly shorter time to sedation and shorter time to arousal.
Prevalence and impact of generalized anxiety disorder and major depression in primary care in Belgium and Luxemburg: the GADIS study.	GADIS aims at determining the prevalence of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and major depression (MD) in primary care and their impact on the patient's functioning in Belgium and Luxemburg.
Psychosocial well-being in testicular cancer patients.	149 testicular cancer patients with no evidence of disease for 3 or more years filled in a questionnaire which covered the following subjects: psychosocial well-being, working ability and use of analgesics/tranquilisers. The questions were chosen to compare cancer patients' morbidity with that of age-matched controls. The patients had been treated with surgery (32 patients), radiotherapy (39 patients), cisplatin-based chemotherapy plus surgery (46 patients) or chemotherapy plus radiotherapy with or without surgery (32 patients). Since no systematic differences between the treatment groups were found, the analyses were undertaken with all patients combined. The patients felt significantly less exhausted after a working day, were more satisfied with life and felt stronger and more fit than the controls. On the other hand, the patients reported a significantly higher incidence of anxiety and depression than the normal population. The results indicate that patients treated for a malignant disease may have greater fluctuations in mood and affect than the general population.
Use of major and minor tranquilizers with older patients in an acute care hospital: an exploratory study.	This paper reports a study to determine how many older patients are prescribed major and/or minor tranquilizers during their hospital stay, and the perceptions of acute care nursing staff towards the use of such medications with older hospitalized patients.
Behavioral, cognitive, and pharmacological treatments of panic disorder with agoraphobia: critique and synthesis.	Theoretical, methodologic, and clinical research issues pertaining to these treatments are examined as are their strengths, limitations, and possible interactions. Attrition, outcome, and maintenance effects are compared. Composite indices of clinically significant improvement, endstate functioning, and longitudinal adjustment are presented. The article also highlights emerging models, theoretical advances, and promising interventions. Advantages and limitations of current treatments are discussed, with recommendations for future research. It is concluded that significant advances have been made in the conceptualization and treatment of panic disorder with agoraphobia.
The importance of therapeutic drug monitoring for psychotropic drugs]	The goal of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the optimization of the psychiatric pharmacotherapy. Above all, TDM is absolutely indicated for the prevention of adverse drug effects or poisoning. TDM is well-established for therapies with antidepressants, antipsychotic drugs and mood stabilizers. For anti-dementia drugs, anxiolytic drugs, hypnotic drugs and medications for treating addiction, monitoring is currently applied to the interpretation of side effects, drug interactions and to forensic questions.
Aetiology and therapeutics of burning mouth syndrome: an update.	To provide a review on the aetiology and therapeutic options for the management of patients with burning mouth syndrome (BMS).
Use of remaxol in the combination therapy of post-withdrawal disorders in alcoholic patients with comorbid liver damage]	To evaluate the efficacy of Remaxol used to treat post-withdrawal disorders in alcoholic patients with comorbid liver damage.
Treatment of parkinson's syndrome. New developments]	The treatment of Parkinson's syndrome with newly developed drugs has to be planned within the entire therapeutic concept. Besides the anticholinergics, levodopa, amantadines and beta-blockers should be taken into consideration. When necessary, hypnotics, ataractics and antidepressant drugs should be applied.
Psychiatry and the general practitioner. I. The schizophrenic as a patient of the general physician]	The Author attempts to trace a specific level of intervention for the general practitioner in the field of assistance for schizophrenic patient.
The effectiveness and safety of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT).	Over the past several decades, psychopharmacological treatments in psychiatry have been subjected to intensive methodological scrutiny in the continual assessment of their efficacy and safety. Although one of the most dramatic and controversial therapeutic approaches in psychiatry, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has not received the same concentrated, systematic attention. Through a comprehensive literature search, the present authors have attempted to provide answers relating to the efficacy and the safety of conventional ECT and some of its more prominent variations. Although specific discernible trends are reported in the text, results of the survey are too disparate for a simplistic summary statement to be made regarding efficacy in all diagnostic categories. As with most somatic treatments in psychiatry, bilateral ECT does present some apparent risk, reduced but not entirely eliminated by precautionary techniques, which must be weighed against the possible benefits to be derived in a given case. Other variations of ECT offer promise of fewer side effects but must be accepted as standard clinical practice.
Effect of teturam on the testosterone level and spermatogenesis in patients with alcoholism]	Disulfiram is one of the most common agents used for the treatment of alcoholism. A study was made of disulfiram influence on the level of testosterone and spermiogenesis in 20 alcoholic patients during course therapy. The level of testosterone was investigated before treatment and 15 and 30 days after treatment with disulfiram at a daily dose of 0.5 g. Sixteen patients of the control group received tranquilizers. Ejaculation specimens were studied before treatment and 30 days after the onset of a therapeutic course. Disulfiram therapy was shown to cause the reduction of the level of testosterone as compared to its basal level and deterioration of spermiogenesis indices as compared to the controls receiving tranquilizers. It should be borne in mind during prolonged therapeutic courses.
Treatment of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome: eight-year, practice-based experience in a predominantly adult population.	Over 86% of 58 patients with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome achieved effective pharmacologic control of the symptoms for 3 months or longer. Differences in response patterns were common among patients and required individualized tailoring of management. Dopamine-blocking neuroleptics were the mainstay of therapy. However, frequent mid-course alterations were required as previously successful drugs stopped working or as their side effects became intolerable. While haloperidol and now pimozide are most frequently used, trifluoperazine and thiothixene can provide superior relief in individual patients. A combination of neuroleptics or even a rotation from one to another may occasionally become necessary. No tardive dyskinesia was encountered in this population. Clonidine proved inferior to neuroleptics in the treatment of the motor and vocal tics, but may have a role in some patients with prominent obsessive-compulsive symptomatology.
Panic disorder: epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment in primary care.	Anxiety is the fifth most common clinical diagnosis in the primary care setting. Panic disorder, a severe episodic form of anxiety, has been found to occur in approximately 6% of primary care patients. These patients often selectively focus on one of the frightening autonomic symptoms and are frequently misdiagnosed. The three most common presentations of panic disorder in the medical setting are cardiac symptoms (chest pain, tachycardia), neurologic symptoms (headache, dizziness/vertigo, syncope), and gastrointestinal symptoms, especially epigastric distress. The presentation of cardiac symptoms by patients with panic disorder is especially likely to lead to expensive and potentially iatrogenic medical testing. Hypertension and peptic ulcer are the most commonly associated medical diagnoses in patients with panic disorder. Major depression, alcohol abuse, simple phobias, and posttraumatic stress disorder are the most frequently associated psychiatric diagnoses. Psychopharmacologic treatment of panic disorder has been demonstrated to be highly effective in double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Effective psychopharmacologic agents include the tricyclic antidepressants (notably imipramine and desipramine), the monoamine oxidase inhibitors (phenelzine), and the high-potency benzodiazepines (alprazolam).
Thiopropazate hydrochloride in persistent dyskinesia.	Thiopropazate (Dartalan) was found to be significantly more effective than a placebo in relieving dyskinesia in 23 patients with functional psychosis and persistent dyskinesia associated with prolonged phenothiazine therapy. Each patient whose dyskinesia had persisted unchanged for at least one month after phenothiazine withdrawal received thiopropazate by mouth for three weeks and the placebo for a similar period. Patients were evaluated before the trial, at three weeks, and at six weeks.The drug also improved psychotic behaviour. Possible side effects, which were generally mild, were noted in eight patients, of whom six had Parkinsonism and four drowsiness. None had side effects while on the placebo.The findings indicate that thiopropazate is of value in persistent dyskinesia associated with prolonged phenothiazine intake-a condition hitherto unresponsive to other treatment. Further research is required to determine the long-term effectiveness of the drug.
Relation of hypermagnesaemia to activity and neuroleptic drug therapy in schizophrenic states.	In a study designed to explain conflicting reports of hypermagnesaemia in schizophrenia, significantly higher concentrations of plasma-magnesium were found in phenothiazine-treated schizophrenic women than in normal women of the same age. This did not apply to men. Magnesium levels were inversely related to motor activity in untreated chronic schizophrenic men in hospital as well as in patients of both sexes receiving butyrophenone or phenothiazine derivatives. The magnesium concentration fell significantly when institutionalized schizophrenic and non-schizophrenic men were placed on neuroleptic medication. It is concluded that age, sex, pharmacotherapy, and level of activity all influence the metabolism of magnesium in schizophrenic subjects.
The alcoholic patient: an overview and perspective.	Evidence is reviewed for considering an ego-impairment/psychopathologic basis for understanding alcoholism. Despite conflicting reports, there is also evidence that psychotherapeutic and psychopharmacologic treatment may be effective. The author describes his management and treatment of alcohol problems based on an appreciation of the alcoholic's ego impairments and other psychopathology.
The antidepressant viloxazin. A multicenter study under practice conditions]	As part of an open multicentre study involving 22 psychiatric clinics 212 patients with depressive symptoms (predominantly endogenous depression) were treated over one month with viloxazine. The drug was administered either alone or- if it seemed clinically necessary--in combination with minor or major tranquilizers. Overall, the depressive symptoms improved in 77% of the cases (10-20% total remissions) of both endogenous and reactive depression. Depressive mood, anxiety and reduced activity were the symptoms which responded best to therapy. In sleep disturbances, psychomotor and internal unrest combination therapy with minor or major tranquilizers was superior to viloxazine given alone.
The place of tranquillisers in the management of stress.	There is good evidence that many types of tranquilliser are effective in treating anxiety disorders that result from stress, but this evidence is not sufficient to recommend their use for acute stress disorders. Although there is little doubt that they will relieve the mood disturbance of severe mental and physical trauma, they may aid the process of denial. There is also a danger that short-term use of tranquillisers may progress to long-term dependence despite the initial intention of the prescriber. It is recommended that tranquillisers should be only used if the stress is severe enough to lead to marked changes in behaviour, is unpredicted and is likely to have a clear beginning and end. Benzodiazepines are usually the tranquillisers of choice but other drugs are available in patients prone to dependence.
Norepinephrine in chronic paranoid schizophrenia: above-normal levels in limbic forebrain.	In postmortem examination of brains of four patients with chronic paranoid schizophrenia, above-normal norepinephrine levels were measured in the ventral septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the nucleus accumbens, and the mammillary bodies. No changes were detected in other limbic forebrain regions, including the hypothalamus and the medial olfactory (preoptic) area. The results point to the possibility of a malfunction of limbic noradrenergic mechanisms in schizophrenia, especially the paranoid variety.
MAO activity, csf amine metabolites, and drug-free improvement in schizophrenia.	Platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity and amine metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid were compared in 22 schizophrenic patients, 8 of whom improved during a 30-day drug-free period. CSF 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and homovanillic acid did not distinguish between drug-free improvers and nonimprovers. However, drug-free improvers had lower platelet MAO activities than did normal controls. The authors suggest that looking at clinical variables in patients with low MAO activity might provide a means of biologically subtyping schizophrenic patients.
The psychiatric emergency in general practice]	Emergencies (conditions requiring immediate interference with putting aside all other obligations) in psychiatry are acute excitatory states and threats or attempts of suicide. In both situations systematic and prudent medical management is necessary. Taking into consideration the conditions in private practice, the principles of conduct and therapeutic procedure are outlined.
Long-term follow-up of duodenal ulcer patients.	The CURE peptic ulcer clinic started in April 1974. Patients (mostly veterans) with documented ulcer disease were interviewed regularly and inpatient hospitalizations were reviewed for follow-up periods of up to 6 years. Data from 245 male ulcer patients, 190 with duodenal ulcer alone and 55 with both documented duodenal ulcer (DU) and gastric ulcer (GU), were analyzed to assess the natural history of ulcer disease and factors predicting the severity of its course. Eleven percent of clinic patients had a complication (bleeding requiring a transfusion, perforation, or obstruction) during follow-up. Complication rates were about 2.7% per year for those with no prior complication, and about 5% per year for those with a prior complication. No patient variables or ulcer markers were related to the likelihood of a complication. Patients with both DU and GU were similar to patients with DU alone on many background variables, but the combined ulcer group had a significantly higher frequency of blood group nonsecretors, increased incidence of cigarette smoking, and greater frequency of complications or ulcer hospitalization prior to entry into the study and during follow-up. These factors, together with our failure to find differences in aggressive factors (acid output and PGI), suggests that DU + GU represents a different disease entity marked by additional defects in mucosal defense.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A controlled comparison of flupenthixol decanoate injections and oral amitriptyline in depressed out-patients.	Sixty-eight depressed out-patients were allocated to treatment with either oral amitriptyline (75-225 mg/day) or intramuscular flupenthixol decanoate (10-30 mg every 14 days) in flexible dosage for 12 weeks under double-blind procedures. Various observer- and self-rating scales were applied before and after 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment. Twenty-four patients completed the course of amitriptyline and 20 the course of flupenthixol. All variables improved over time, but there were no significant differences between the two drugs. The Newcastle scores pre-treatment were not related to drug response suggesting that both drugs were similarly effective across a wide spectrum of depressive disorders. Patients on amitriptyline tended to complain of dry mouth; those on flupenthixol had a higher incidence of extrapyramidal signs, the majority receiving anti-parkinsonian drugs at some time during the treatment. Flupenthixol decanoate in low dose is a useful anti-depressant, but should be restricted to short courses of treatment, to patients refractory to other treatments, and to patients suspected of poor compliance.
Results of treatment with the anti-depressive agent lofepramine in neurological practice]	The effectiveness and tolerance of Lofepramine was investigated in a neurological practice on 100 patients with predominantly slight and moderately severe depressive states. The treatment could be carried out according to the trial plan on 78 patients and the success of the therapy could be evaluated. 67 patients showed definite improvement (85.9%) and tolerance was good to very good in 96.2% of the cases. Although a tranquilizaer was also administered to 62 patients, the success of therapy was definitely accounted for by the antidepressant. This applies particularly to the symptoms of fear, tiredness and impairment of work capacity as well as "depressive mood", hypochondria, somatization and states of agitation. No serious side effects were observed in any patient. Insufficient success in therapy was observed most often when the minimal dose of 35 mg per day was administered, while convincing results were obtained by a dosage of 70 to 140 mg of Lofepramine daily. A large number of patients who were initially treated with higher doses of Lofepramine profited from a subsequent long-term therapy lasting several months during which 17.5 to 35 mg of Lofepramine were administered daily.
Treatment of alcoholism: the role of the primary care physician.	The primary care physician plays an important role in early identification of the alcoholic, who may seek treatment for a problem other than alcoholism. Confrontation begins with a complete history and ends with an invitation to the patient to participate in definitive treatment. During detoxification the patient can be helped to establish a long-term relationship with the physician and with Alcoholics Anonymous.
The anxiety state in HIV-infected persons after the discovery of their seropositivity]	The authors analyzed psychoemotional reactions of 225 subjects (151 males and 74 females, mean age 30.2 and 27.8 years, respectively) to detection of HIV in their blood serum. 52% of the examinees responded with nonpathological emotions among which all kinds of anxiety were most common. Psychotherapeutic and pharmacological correction of anxiety is specified.
Elevated blood pressure in the young adult.	This paper discusses elevated blood pressure, particularly as related to young adults, and suggests that this problem be considered in two subgroups. The first subgroup is termed "labile blood pressure" and not "labile hypertension". In this subgroup are those patients in whom the diastolic blood pressure is normal most of the time and elevated only occasionally. Such patients only require reassurance, although they should be followed to be certain that they do not develop hypertension. The second subgroup includes those who are found to have consistent mild elevations in diastolic blood pressure. Treatment is recommended for this subgroup. An outline of the evaluation and management is presented.
Human contact and cardiac arrhythmia in a coronary care unit.	In a sample of 225 coronary care patients it was observed that a significant reduction in ventricular arrhythmias occurred following pulse palpation. These data suggest that significant changes in ventricular arrhythmia can occur as a result of even minimally arousing psychosocial interactions.
