Cardiac specific overexpression of transglutaminase II (G(h)) results in a unique hypertrophy phenotype independent of phospholipase C activation.	Tissue type transglutaminase (TGII, also known as G(h)) has been considered a multifunctional protein, with both transglutaminase and GTPase activity. The role of the latter function, which is proposed as a coupling mechanism between alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors and phospholipase C (PLC), is not well defined. TGII was overexpressed in transgenic mice in a cardiac specific manner to delineated relevant signaling pathways and their consequences in the heart. Cardiac transglutaminase activity in the highest expressing line was approximately 37-fold greater than in nontransgenic lines. However, in vivo signaling to PLC, as assessed by inositol phosphate turnover in [(3)H]myoinositol organ bath atrial preparations, was not increased in the TGII mice at base line or in response to alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor stimulation; nor was protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha) or PKCepsilon activity enhanced in the TGII transgenic mice. This is in contrast to mice moderately (approximately 5-fold) overexpressing G(alphaq), where inositol phosphate turnover and PKC activity were found to be clearly enhanced. TGII overexpression resulted in a remodeling of the heart with mild hypertrophy, elevated expression of beta-myosin heavy chain and alpha-skeletal actin genes, and diffuse interstitial fibrosis. Resting ventricular function was depressed, but responsiveness to beta-agonist was not impaired. This set of pathophysiologic findings is distinct from that evoked by overexpression of G(alphaq). We conclude that TGII acts in the heart primarily as a transglutaminase, and modulation of this function results in unique pathologic sequelae. Evidence for TGII acting as a G-protein-like transducer of receptor signaling to PLC in the heart is not supported by these studies.
Hydrogen peroxide mediates doxorubicin-induced transglutaminase 2 expression in PC-14 human lung cancer cell line.	Increased expression of Transglutaminases 2 (TGase 2, TGase C) was observed in PC-14 human lung cancer cells in association with doxorubicin resistance and the reduction of the enzyme expression was correlated with the increasing cytotoxicity of the drug (Han and Park, 1999). Hydrogen peroxide was suggested to be a key mediator for doxorubicin-induced DNA fragmentation leading to apoptosis. A possible role of hydrogen peroxide as a putative mediator of TGase 2 expression in the doxorubicin sensitive PC-14 cells was examined. TGase 2 expression was increased in PC-14 cells treated with doxorubicin in a dose-dependent manner resulting in the concomitant increase of reactive oxygen species. The rise of TGase 2 expression by doxorubicin treatment was inhibited by N-acetylcysteine or glutathione treatment, while direct addition of hydrogen peroxide to PC-14 cells induced TGase 2 expression. These results suggest that generation of hydrogen peroxide induced by doxorubicin treatment is one of the key factors in an enhancement of TGase 2 expression in PC-14 cells.
Expression of the human blood coagulation protein factor XIIIa in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: dependence of the expression levels from host-vector systems and medium conditions.	The human blood coagulation protein Factor XIIIa (FXIIIa) was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae employing Escherichia coli-yeast shuttle vectors based on a 2-mu plasmid. Several factors affecting high production yield of recombinant FXIIIa were analysed. The use of the regulatable GAL-CYC1 hybrid promoter resulted in higher FXIIIa expression when compared with the constitutive ADCI promoter. Screening for suitable yeast strains for expression of FXIIIa under the transcriptional control of the GAL-CYC1 hybrid promoter revealed a broad spectrum of productivity. No obvious correlation between the expression rate and the genetic markers of the strains could be identified. The medium composition markedly influenced the FXIIIa expression rates. The expression of FXIIIa was strictly regulated by the carbon source. Glucose as the only sugar and energy source repressed the synthesis of FXIIIa, whereas addition of galactose induced FXIIIa expression. Special feeding schemes resulted in a productivity of up to 100 mg FXIIIa/l in shake flasks.
Small artery remodeling depends on tissue-type transglutaminase.	Remodeling of small arteries is essential in the long-term regulation of blood pressure and blood flow to specific organs or tissues. A large part of the change in vessel diameter may occur through non-growth-related reorganization of vessel wall components. The hypothesis was tested that tissue-type transglutaminase (tTG), a cross-linking enzyme, contributes to the inward remodeling of small arteries. The in vivo inward remodeling of rat mesenteric arteries, induced by low blood flow, was attenuated by inhibition of tTG. Rat skeletal muscle arteries expressed tTG, as identified by Western blot and immunostaining. In vitro, activation of these arteries with endothelin-1 resulted in inward remodeling, which was blocked by tTG inhibitors. Small arteries obtained from rats and pigs both showed inward remodeling after exposure to exogenous transglutaminase, which was inhibited by addition of a nitric oxide donor. Enhanced expression of tTG, induced by retinoic acid, increased inward remodeling of porcine coronary arteries kept in organ culture for 3 days. The activity of tTG was dependent on pressure. Inhibition of tTG reversed remodeling, causing a substantial increase in vessel diameter. In a collagen gel contraction assay, tTG determined the compaction of collagen by smooth muscle cells. Collectively, these data show that small artery remodeling associated with chronic vasoconstriction depends on tissue-type transglutaminase. This mechanism may reveal a novel therapeutic target for pathologies associated with inward remodeling of the resistance arteries.
Beta ig-h3 induces keratinocyte differentiation via modulation of involucrin and transglutaminase expression through the integrin alpha3beta1 and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway.	Beta ig-h3 is an extracellular matrix protein whose expression is highly induced by transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1. Whereas beta ig-h3 is known to mediate keratinocyte adhesion and migration, its effects on keratinocyte differentiation remain unclear. In the present study, it was demonstrated that expression of both beta ig-h3 and TGF-beta1 was enhanced during keratinocyte differentiation and that expression of the former was strongly induced by that of the latter. This study also asked whether changes in beta-h3 expression would affect keratinocyte differentiation. Indeed, down-regulation of beta ig-h3 by transfection with antisense beta ig-h3 cDNA constructs effectively inhibited keratinocyte differentiation by decreasing the promoter activities and thus expression of involucrin and transglutaminase. The result was an approximately 2-fold increase in mitotic capacity of the cells. Conversely, overexpression of beta ig-h3, either by transfection with beta ig-h3 expression plasmids or by exposure to recombinant beta ig-h3, enhanced keratinocyte differentiation by inhibiting cell proliferation and concomitantly increasing involucrin and transglutaminase expression. Recombinant beta ig-h3 also promoted keratinocyte adhesion through interaction with integrin alpha3beta1. Changes in beta ig-h3 expression did not affect intracellular calcium levels. Subsequent analysis revealed not only induction of Akt phosphorylation by recombinant beta ig-h3 but also blockage of Akt phosphorylation by LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Taken together, these findings indicate that enhanced beta ig-h3, induced by enhanced TGF-beta during keratinocyte differentiation, provoked cell differentiation by enhancing involucrin and transglutaminase expression through the integrin alpha3beta1 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway. Lastly, it was observed that beta ig-h3-mediated keratinocyte differentiation was caused by promotion of cell adhesion and not by calcium regulation.
On-column refolding and purification of transglutaminase from Streptomyces fradiae expressed as inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli.	Since transglutaminase (TGase) have been widely used in industry, mass production of the enzyme is especially necessary. The mature TGase gene from Streptomyces fradiae was cloned into pET21a and overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The recombinant TGase was formed as inclusion bodies, and its content was as high as 55% of the total protein content. The insoluble fractions were separated from cellular debris by centrifugation and solubilized with 8 M urea. With an on-column refolding procedure based on cation SP Fast Flow chromatography with dual-gradient, the active TGase protein was recovered efficiently from inclusion bodies. The final purified product was 95% pure detected by SDS-PAGE. Under appropriate experimental conditions, the protein yield and specific activity of the TGase were up to 53% and 21 U/mg, respectively. Furthermore, the refolded recombinant protein demonstrated nearly identical ability to polymerized BSA compared with that of native TGase. One hundred and five milligrams of refolded TGase protein was obtained from 3.2g wet weight cells in the 400 ml cell culture.
Tissue transglutaminase expression promotes cell attachment, invasion and survival in breast cancer cells.	Distant metastasis is frequently observed in patients with breast cancer and is a major cause of cancer-related deaths in these patients. Currently, very little is known about the mechanisms that underlie the development of the metastatic phenotype in breast cancer cells. We previously found that metastatic breast cancer cells express high levels of tissue transglutaminase (TG2), but established no direct link between TG2 and metastasis. In this study, we hypothesized that TG2 plays a role in conferring the metastatic phenotype to breast cancer cells. The results obtained suggested that increased expression of TG2 in breast cancer cells contributes to their increased survival, invasion and motility. We further found that TG2 protein in a metastatic breast cancer MDA-MB231 cells was present on the cell surface in close association with integrins beta1, beta4 and beta5. Downregulation of endogenous TG2 by small interfering RNA inhibited fibronectin (Fn)-mediated cell attachment, survival and invasion. Conversely, ectopic expression of TG2 augmented invasion of breast cancer cells and attachment to Fn-coated surfaces. We conclude that TG2 expression in breast cancer cells plays an important role in the development of the metastatic phenotype.
Dual induction of caspase 3- and transglutaminase-dependent apoptosis by acyclic retinoid in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.	Hepatocellular carcinoma has a high mortality rate due to its rate of recurrence. Acyclic retinoid prevents recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients after surgical removal of their primary tumors by inducing apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma cells, although the molecular mechanisms of action are not understood.
Tissue transglutaminase does not affect fibrotic matrix stability or regression of liver fibrosis in mice.	The ubiquitous cross-linking enzyme tissue transglutaminase (TG2) has been implicated in irreversible collagen stabilization in liver fibrosis, although functional evidence is lacking. We studied the contribution of TG2 to hepatic fibrotic matrix stability, as well as liver fibrosis progression and regression in TG2-deficient mice.
The influence of gluten on clinical and immunological status of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).	Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are susceptible to gastrointestinal diseases. Sensitivity to nutritional elements, for example gluten, has been suggested, but a serological screening has not been performed yet.
Histaminylation of fibrinogen by tissue transglutaminase-2 (TGM-2): potential role in modulating inflammation.	Plasma fibrinogen plays an important role in hemostasis and inflammation. Fibrinogen is converted to fibrin to impede blood loss and serves as the provisional matrix that aids wound healing. Fibrinogen also binds to cytokine activated endothelial cells and promotes the binding and migration of leukocytes into tissues during inflammation. Tissue transglutaminase (TGM-2) released from injured cells could cross-link fibrinogen to form multivalent complexes that could promote adhesion of platelets and vascular cells to endothelium. Histamine released by mast cells is a potent biogenic amine that promotes inflammation. The covalent attachment of histamine to proteins (histaminylation) by TGM-2 could modify local inflammatory reactions. We investigated TGM-2 crosslinking of several biogenic amines (serotonin, histamine, dopamine and noradrenaline) to fibrinogen. We identified histaminylation of fibrinogen by TGM-2 as a preferred reaction in solid and solution phase transglutaminase assays. Histamine caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of fibrinogen cross-linking by TGM-2. Fibrinogen that was not TGM-2 crosslinked bound to unactivated endothelial cells with low affinity. However, the binding was increased by sevenfold when fibrinogen was cross-linked by TGM-2. Histaminylation of fibrinogen also inhibited TGM-2 crosslinking of fibrinogen and the binding to un-activated HUVEC cells by 75–90 %. In summary, the histaminylation of fibrinogen by TGM-2 could play a role in modifying inflammation by sequestering free histamine and by inhibiting TGM-2 crosslinking of fibrinogen.
Response of psoriasis to a new topical retinoid, AGN 190168.	Oral retinoids have been widely used in psoriasis, but topical forms have been ineffective or irritating.
CD34+ spindle-shaped cells selectively disappear from the skin lesion of scleroderma.	The pathogenesis of scleroderma is still unknown. Recently, it has become possible to identify different subpopulations of dermal spindle-shaped cells using anti-CD34 and anti-factor XIIIa antibodies. To elucidate whether entire populations of dermal fibroblasts or only a subpopulation of cells are involved in the fibrosis of scleroderma, we compared the staining pattern of these antibodies and antiprocollagen antibody in paraffin-embedded skin sections from the lesions of 27 patients with scleroderma and 15 patients with other collagen diseases and from normal skin of 17 subjects. Cryostat sections from both involved and uninvolved skin of four patients with scleroderma were also stained with anti-CD34, anti-factor XIIIa, and anti-proline-4-hydroxylase antibodies.
Ganglioside-induced terminal differentiation of human keratinocytes: early biochemical events in signal transduction.	Previous studies have indicated that GQ1b, a tetrasialoganglioside containing two disialosyl residues, may be an important regulator of cellular differentiation in murine keratinocytes. In the present study, we examined the effect of gangliosides on the differentiation of human keratinocytes. Current evidence indicates that GQ1b induces cornified envelope formation and enhancement of transglutaminase (TGase) activity, which are characteristic parameters of terminal differentiation in human cultured keratinocytes, while the other gangliosides, GT1b and GM1, are much less effective. The mass contents of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (1,4,5-IP3) and the intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were also measured in keratinocytes exposed to gangliosides. A rapid increase in 1,4,5-IP3 occurred at 30 s following stimulation, but no significant difference at the maximum level was observed among the three gangliosides in contrast to the finding in murine keratinocytes. In addition, [Ca2+] increases occurred concurrently with the 1,4,5-IP3 generation by the three gangliosides. On the other hand, [Ca2+] transients were unaffected by chelating extracellular Ca2+ with EGTA. It is thus considered that the mobilization by 1,4,5-IP3 from internal stores plays a crucial role. These [Ca2+]i profiles were also indistinguishable between the gangliosides. Taken together, in human keratinocytes, gangliosides differentially affect some other as yet unidentified site(s) in the post-calcium transmission pathway(s) which leads to TGase activation.
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 potentiates the keratinocyte response to calcium.	Extracellular calcium (Cao) stimulates the differentiation of keratinocytes; 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 1,25(OH)2D3) does likewise. Since 1,25(OH)2D3 regulates calcium flux in other cells, we hypothesized that 1,25(OH)2D)3 acted through and promoted the effects of calcium on keratinocyte differentiation. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the effects of calcium and 1,25(OH)2D3 alone and in combination on the mRNA and protein levels of involucrin and transglutaminase in neonatal human keratinocytes. Cao alone increased these mRNA levels in a dose-dependent fashion (0.03 to 1.2 mM) over a 24-h period. This increase in mRNA levels was associated with a stimulation by calcium of involucrin and transglutaminase gene transcription. However, by 72 h, the mRNA levels of involucrin and transglutaminase decreased. At 0.03 mM Cao, 1,25(OH)2D3 showed a dose-dependent stimulation of involucrin and transglutaminase mRNA for up to 48 h and potentiated the initial (4-h) stimulation by Cao of involucrin and transglutaminase mRNA. As for calcium alone, this increase in mRNA was associated with an increase in transcription of the involucrin and transglutaminase genes. However, by 24 h of exposure to both calcium and 1,25(OH)2D3, a dose-dependent fall in mRNA levels was seen. The mRNA levels of involucrin and transglutaminase were stable for 24 h when neonatal human keratinocytes were grown in serum-free keratinocyte growth medium containing 0.03 or 1.2 mM Cao alone. However, the mRNAs of both genes underwent rapid degradation when neonatal human keratinocytes were treated with 1,25(OH)2D3, especially in high Cao. 1,25(OH)2D3 and Cao increased the protein levels of involucrin and transglutaminase activity in a synergistic fashion throughout the 48-h time course. These data support the hypothesis that 1,25(OH)2D3 promotes calcium-induced differentiation at the level of both gene expression and mRNA stability.
The induction of terminal differentiation markers by the cAMP pathway in human HaCaT keratinocytes.	The terminal differentiation of human epidermal keratinocytes is a complex morphological and biochemical shift from a mitotically active cell to an inert protein cross-linked envelope. This transition is a clearly predetermined cell death mechanism, but it is unlike many other programmed cell deaths in that it is not apoptotic. To explore and contrast the mechanism by which keratinocytes are committed to differentiation rather than apoptosis, we focused on the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway using selective modulators of intracellular cAMP levels. Markers of differentiation were assayed by Western blotting. Raising intracelluar cAMP levels by treating HaCaT cells with forskolin, a diterpene, or with isobutylmethylxanthine, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, and isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist that selectively activates adenylate cyclase, increased the levels of the differentiation markers keratin K1 and K10, involucrin and transglutaminase. H89 and KT5720, both inhibitors of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, suppressed the expression of keratins K1 and K10. These observations are in line with the defined role for cAMP in the control of keratinocyte differentiation.
Glutathione transferase (class pi) and tissue transglutaminase (Tgase C) expression in pterygia.	Pterygia are considered to be induced by predisposing factors such as the external toxic environment. Glutathione transferases (GSTs) have a role in the detoxication of toxic chemicals. Transglutaminases (TGases) are involved in apoptosis, cellular adhesion and the wound healing process. As their expressions may be changed in abnormal conditions, we evaluated the clinicopathological status of pterygia by immunohistochemical study with GST-pi and TGase C. Twenty one pterygia, two pseudopterygia and five normal conjunctival specimens were used. The formalin-fixed samples were embedded in paraffin blocks, which were subjected to be stained with anti-GST-pi and anti-TG polyclonal antibodies immunohistochemically. They were graded from negative to strong. Staining patterns of GST-pi ranged from negative to weak in normal conjunctival epithelium, while in pterygia and pseudopterygia, one was weak, seven mild, ten moderate and five strong. As for TGase C expression, normal tissues were weak to mild, but ten were mild, nine moderate and four strong in pterygia and pseudopterygia. The general staining patterns of GST-pi and TGase C were prominent, ranged from moderate to strong in pterygia and pseudopterygia with basophilic degeneration and keratinization. On the corneal side of pterygia, TGase C was strongly positive in the basal epithelium on destroyed Bowman's layer and in conjunctival fibrous tissue. We suggest that GST-pi and TGase C are responsible for the process of pathogenesis of pterygia and pseudopterygia.
Camptothecin induces differentiation, tissue transglutaminase and apoptosis in cultured keratinocytes.	Cultured normal human adult keratinocytes were exposed to (S)-(+)- camptothecin over the concentration range 10(-5) to 10(-10) M. The dose-dependent inhibition of growth was recorded using cell counting. The induction of terminal differentiation was demonstrated by the relative increase in squamous and cornified cells, and the concomitant decrease in small, proliferative cells, with an overall decrease in total cell numbers on going from 10(-10) to 10(-6) M concentration of the drug. The induction of apoptosis was studied by assay of two types of transglutaminase, "tissue" and "keratinocyte", and by assay of histone-linked mono- and oligonucleosomes. Induction of apoptosis was accompanied with increase in "tissue" transglutaminase and in the amount of nucleosomes, the latter being indicative of endonuclease activity. This activity was sharply increased at a camptothecin concentration of 10(-5) M, and may have been facilitated by "tissue" transglutaminase at lower concentrations. The data suggest that camptothecin restricts keratinocyte growth by several mechanisms including apoptosis and emphasize its possible use in topical therapy for psoriasis.
Human papillomavirus oncoproteins alter differentiation-dependent cell cycle exit on suspension in semisolid medium.	The suspension of keratinocytes containing episomal forms of the human papillomavirus (HPV)-31 genome in semisolid medium results in the induction of viral late functions. In this study, the suspension in semisolid medium was used to analyze how HPV deregulates the process of cell cycle exit during differentiation. In cells that contain the entire HPV-31 genome, induction of late protein synthesis was found to be linked with the expression of cyclin A. Consistent with analyses in organotypic rafts, the expression of the high-risk E7 oncoprotein alone was sufficient to retain cyclin A expression during suspension-induced differentiation. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs) p27 and p57 were found to be up-regulated in normal keratinocytes, as well as in the lines that express the HPV oncoproteins. The up-regulation of these CKIs is coincident with the inhibition of cyclin/cdk activity in normal keratinocytes. Cells expressing E7 were found to retain significant cdk2-associated kinase activity, although it was partially inhibited, coincident with CKI induction. When the phosphorylation state of Rb was examined during differentiation, cells expressing E7 retained phosphorylated forms of Rb, whereas Rb in normal keratinocytes was hypophosphorylated. As previously reported, E7-expressing cells were found to contain less Rb protein than normal keratinocytes. Interestingly, the Rb levels decreased during normal keratinocyte differentiation, and this differentiation-dependent reduction in Rb levels was enhanced by EG and E7 expression. This study identified proteins that may be critical for cell cycle regulation during normal epithelial differentiation and demonstrated that HPV oncoproteins alter their activities.
