Development of the coronary arteries in a murine model of transposition of great arteries.	Transposition of great arteries in humans is associated with a wide spectrum of coronary artery patterns. However, no information is available about how this pattern diversity develops. We have studied the development of the coronary arteries in mouse embryos with a targeted mutation of perlecan, a mutation that leads to ventriculo-arterial discordance and complete transposition in about 70% of the embryos. The perlecan-deficient embryos bearing complete transposition showed a coronary artery pattern consisting of right and left coronary arteries arising from the morphologically dorsal and ventral sinuses of Valsalva, respectively. The left coronary artery gives rise to a large septal artery and runs along the ventral margin of the pulmonary root. In the earliest embryos where transposition could be confirmed (12.5 d post coitum), a dense subepicardial vascular plexus is located in this ventral margin. In wild-type mice, however, capillaries are very scarce on the ventral surface of the pulmonary root and the left coronary artery runs dorsally to this root. We suggest that the establishment of the diverse coronary artery patterns is determined by the anatomical arrangement and the capillary density of the peritruncal vascular plexus, a plexus that spreads from the atrio-ventricular groove and grows around the aortic or pulmonary roots depending on the degree of the short-axis aortopulmonary rotation. This simple model, based on very few assumptions, might explain all the observed variation of the coronary artery patterns in humans with transposition, as well as our observations on the perlecan-deficient and the normal mice.
Acardiac acephalic twin gestation with transposition of great arteries in pump twin.	We report here a case of twin reversed arterial perfusion sequence with transposition of great arteries in the pump twin. Color Doppler and fetal echocardiographic examination revealed an acardiac, anencephalic twin without upper limbs and a pump twin with transposition of great arteries. To our knowledge despite multiple anomalies reported in the acardiac twin, major anomalies, especially of a cardiac type are extremely rare and not reported in the pump twin, which maintains circulation. Management is directed at saving the pump fetus; therefore, we believe that during sonographic exam, emphasis should be placed on associated organ anomalies or complications that may hamper viability of the pump.
Right ventricle in congenital heart disease: is it just a "weaker" left ventricle?	The RV is the dominant ventricle during fetal life. Postnatally, the RV rapidly loses its ability to sustain systemic load. In several forms of congenital heart disease, the RV is the dominant or systemic ventricle. Patients with these lesions often develop progressive RV dysfunction over time. This may be related to differences in morphology, genetic profile and hemodynamic exposure between the LV and RV. This review explores the evolutionary and developmental differences between the LV and RV, the molecular basis of these differences and the potential impact of these differences on long term RV adaptation and function in heart disease.
Anatomy and embriology of double outlet right ventricle (author's transl)]	After formulating the definition of double outlet right ventricle (DORV) as the persistence origin of the trunco-conal structures from the right ventricle, 64 autopsy cases meeting this definition were reviewed. A wide spectrum of anatomic variations of DORV were found. A classification is proposed based upon the type of relationship between the great vessels and upon the presence and type of ventricular septal defect. Twenty-five cases had normally crossed great arteries (13 of which had pulmonic stenosis), nine cases had transposed vessels and 23 cases had a double muscular conus and a side-by-side arrangement of the great vessels in the frontal view, a relationship called "partial distortion" or atypical transposition. Seven cases had absent trunco-conal septum (common truncus). Only one case had intact ventricular septum. Anterior ventricular septal defect was found only in cases with partial distortion or common truncus. Angiographic and surgical correlations are presented. Because of their great heterogeneity, the need for detailed description of the anatomy of the individual case of DORV is emphasized.
