Sliding clamp of the bacteriophage T4 polymerase has open and closed subunit interfaces in solution.	The sliding clamps of bacteriophage T4 (gp45), Escherichia coli (beta clamp), and yeast (PCNA) are required for processive DNA synthesis by their cognate DNA polymerases. The X-ray crystal structures of all three of these clamps have been shown to be closed, circular complexes. This paper reports investigations of the solution structure of bacteriophage T4 gp45 by analytical ultracentrifugation, fluorescence, and hydrodynamic modeling. Mutants of gp45 with inter- and intrasubunit disulfide bonds were created to alter the solution structure of gp45, with additional mutagenesis used to investigate the importance of the proline-rich loop region found between the two domains of each gp45 monomer. The wild-type gp45 trimer assembles from monomers cooperatively with a dissociation constant of 0.21 microM2 and values between 0.088 and 0. 32 microM2 for the mutants. Velocity ultracentrifugation experiments showed that wild-type gp45 possesses a sedimentation coefficient strongly dependent on concentration, typical of asymmetric or elongated molecules, that when extrapolated to zero concentration yields a sedimentation coefficient of 4.0 S. The loop and the disulfide mutants exhibited sedimentation coefficients with little concentration dependence, typical of symmetric or spherical molecules, that when extrapolated to zero concentration yielded sedimentation coefficients of 4.4-4.8 S. The lower sedimentation coefficient in the former case is consistent with wild-type gp45 being more asymmetric or elongated than the mutant forms. Fluorescence-resonance energy-transfer experiments were used to measure the distance between two amino acids (W91 and V162C-coumarin) on opposite sides of the gp45 subunit interface. For an intrasubunit disulfide mutant, the distance between these two amino acids was determined to be 19 A (14 A in the X-ray crystal structure), consistent with a closed complex. For the mutants without intrasubunit disulfides, the efficiency of fluorescence-resonance energy transfer was in accord with a model of gp45 being an open complex composed of two closed subunit interfaces and a third open interface separated by a distance of 35-38 A. The collective data supplemented with hydrodynamic modeling were consistent with gp45 subunit separation achieved within the plane of the gp45 ring.
Binding of the human T-cell leukemia virus Tax protein to the coactivator CBP interferes with CBP-mediated transcriptional control.	The HTLV-I oncoprotein Tax is required for high level viral transcription and is strongly linked to HTLV-I-associated malignant transformation. Tax stimulates HTLV-I transcription through high affinity binding to the KIX domain of CBP, a pleiotropic coactivator. Several cellular proteins, including c-jun, also bind to KIX and utilize CBP as a coactivator. To test whether Tax binding to KIX may disable cellular CBP function, we examined the potential interplay between Tax and c-jun for binding to KIX. We show that Tax represses the transcription function of c-jun in vivo and demonstrate that both transcription factors bind to an overlapping minimal region of KIX in vitro. c-jun binding to KIX is displaced by Tax, indicating that their binding is mutually exclusive and providing a molecular basis for the observed repression. The competition between Tax and cellular transcription factors for CBP represents a novel pathway for HTLV-I dependent deregulation of gene expression, and may have significant implications for cellular homeostasis and transformation in the HTLV-I infected T-cell.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of wild-type and V103L mutant Myb R2 DNA-binding domain.	The R2 subdomain of the mouse c-Myb DNA-binding domain and its V103L mutant have been crystallized by the vapour-diffusion method using highly concentrated sodium citrate at pH 6.8 as a precipitant. Using ammonium sulfate as precipitant in MES buffer only produced crystals for the mutant R2. All crystals are isomorphous and belong to space group P212121. The unit-cell dimensions for wild-type R2 crystals grown from sodium citrate precipitant are a = 28.83, b = 40.18, c = 49.23 A. Crystals contain one R2 molecule per asymmetric unit. They are stable during 3 d exposure to X-rays and diffract to 1.37-1.45 A resolution.
Evidence that a plant virus switched hosts to infect a vertebrate and then recombined with a vertebrate-infecting virus.	There are several similarities between the small, circular, single-stranded-DNA genomes of circoviruses that infect vertebrates and the nanoviruses that infect plants. We analyzed circovirus and nanovirus replication initiator protein (Rep) sequences and confirmed that an N-terminal region in circovirus Reps is similar to an equivalent region in nanovirus Reps. However, we found that the remaining C-terminal region is related to an RNA-binding protein (protein 2C), encoded by picorna-like viruses, and we concluded that the sequence encoding this region of Rep was acquired from one of these single-stranded RNA viruses, probably a calicivirus, by recombination. This is clear evidence that a DNA virus has incorporated a gene from an RNA virus, and the fact that none of these viruses code for a reverse transcriptase suggests that another agent with this capacity was involved. Circoviruses were thought to be a sister-group of nanoviruses, but our phylogenetic analyses, which take account of the recombination, indicate that circoviruses evolved from a nanovirus. A nanovirus DNA was transferred from a plant to a vertebrate. This transferred DNA included the viral origin of replication; the sequence conservation clearly indicates that it maintained the ability to replicate. In view of these properties, we conclude that the transferred DNA was a kind of virus and the transfer was a host-switch. We speculate that this host-switch occurred when a vertebrate was exposed to sap from an infected plant. All characterized caliciviruses infect vertebrates, suggesting that the host-switch happened first and that the recombination took place in a vertebrate.
c-Myb protein binds to the EP element of the HBV enhancer and regulates transcription in synergy with NF-M.	The hepatitis B virus (HBV) enhancer contains multiple active elements, one of which is the EP element, a 15 bp site important for its regulation by acting on other functional elements like the E site. The EP element, in the HBV enhancer context, contains two putative binding sites for c-myb family gene products. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the minimal c-Myb DNA-binding domain binds to the EP sequence. DNase I footprinting experiments revealed that only one consensus binding site was effectively protected. We found that c-Myb down-regulates transcription driving by the HBV enhancer in CAT assays performed in a haematopoietic (K562) and in a hepatic (HepG2) cell line. Interestingly, co-expression of both c-Myb and NF-M, a C/EBPbeta homologue which recognises the E element of the HBV enhancer, showed a synergistic transactivation of the HBV enhancer while, separately, each of them had an inhibitory effect on transcription in HepG2 and K562 cell lines, two cell types potentially infected by the hepatitis B virus.
A Vibrio cholerae LysR homolog, AphB, cooperates with AphA at the tcpPH promoter to activate expression of the ToxR virulence cascade.	We describe here a new member of the LysR family of transcriptional regulators, AphB, which is required for activation of the Vibrio cholerae ToxR virulence cascade. AphB activates the transcription of the tcpPH operon in response to environmental stimuli, and this process requires cooperation with a second protein, AphA. The expression of neither aphA or aphB is strongly regulated by environmental stimuli, raising the possibility that the activities of the proteins themselves may be influenced under various conditions. Strains of the El Tor biotype of V. cholerae typically exhibit lower expression of ToxR-regulated virulence genes in vitro than classical strains and require specialized culture conditions (AKI medium) to induce high-level expression. We show here that expression of aphB from the tac promoter in El Tor biotype strains dramatically increases virulence gene expression to levels similar to those observed in classical strains under all growth conditions examined. These results suggest that AphB plays a role in the differential regulation of virulence genes between the two disease-causing biotypes.
Isolation and characterization of mutations in the Escherichia coli regulatory protein XapR.	In this work, the LysR-type protein XapR has been subjected to a mutational analysis. XapR regulates the expression of xanthosine phosphorylase (XapA), a purine nucleoside phosphorylase in Escherichia coli. In the wild type, full expression of XapA requires both a functional XapR protein and the inducer xanthosine. Here we show that deoxyinosine can also function as an inducer in the wild type, although not to the same extent as xanthosine. We have isolated and characterized in detail the mutants that can be induced by other nucleosides as well as xanthosine. Sequencing of the mutants has revealed that two regions in XapR are important for correct interactions between the inducer and XapR. One region is defined by amino acids 104 and 132, and the other region, containing most of the isolated mutations, is found between amino acids 203 and 210. These regions, when modelled into the three-dimensional structure of CysB from Klebsiella aerogenes, are placed close together and are most probably directly involved in binding the inducer xanthosine.
Broad spectrum thiopeptide recognition specificity of the Streptomyces lividans TipAL protein and its role in regulating gene expression.	Microbial metabolites isolated in screening programs for their ability to activate transcription of the tipA promoter (ptipA) in Streptomyces lividans define a class of cyclic thiopeptide antibiotics having dehydroalanine side chains ("tails"). Here we show that such compounds of heterogeneous primary structure (representatives tested: thiostrepton, nosiheptide, berninamycin, promothiocin) are all recognized by TipAS and TipAL, two in-frame translation products of the tipA gene. The N-terminal helix-turn-helix DNA binding motif of TipAL is homologous to the MerR family of transcriptional activators, while the C terminus forms a novel ligand-binding domain. ptipA inducers formed irreversible complexes in vitro and in vivo (presumably covalent) with TipAS by reacting with the second of the two C-terminal cysteine residues. Promothiocin and thiostrepton derivatives in which the dehydroalanine side chains were removed lost the ability to modify TipAS. They were able to induce expression of ptipA as well as the tipA gene, although with reduced activity. Thus, TipA required the thiopeptide ring structure for recognition, while the tail served either as a dispensable part of the recognition domain and/or locked thiopeptides onto TipA proteins, thus leading to an irreversible transcriptional activation. Construction and analysis of a disruption mutant showed that tipA was autogenously regulated and conferred thiopeptide resistance. Thiostrepton induced the synthesis of other proteins, some of which did not require tipA.
Circadian regulation of iodopsin and clock is altered in the retinal degeneration chicken retina.	We are interested in determining if the visual phototransduction cascade plays a role in light entrainment of photoreceptor circadian oscillators. In this study, we compared mRNA levels of iodopsin and the chicken homolog of Clock (cClock) in the retinas of normal and rd (retinal degeneration) chickens that lack functional rod and cone phototransduction cascades. Iodopsin is a circadian-regulated, photoreceptor-specific gene expressed in chicken retina, and Clock is a transcription factor that has been shown to play a role in the circadian clock mechanism in mouse and Drosophila. The results of our analyses show that cClock and iodopsin transcript levels undergo daily oscillations in retinas of normal animals housed under 12 h light:12 h dark (12L:12D) conditions, and that these oscillations are maintained in the absence of light. Levels of these transcripts in the retinas of rd/rd chickens housed under cyclic light conditions did not change significantly over the course of a 12L:12D cycle; however, there was evidence that the photoreceptor oscillators were entrained in these animals. Comparisons of our normal and rd/rd data suggest that there are at least two light entrainment pathways that impinge on the oscillators found in photoreceptor cells, one of which is effectively disabled by the GC1 null mutation carried by the rd chicken.
PER and TIM inhibit the DNA binding activity of a Drosophila CLOCK-CYC/dBMAL1 heterodimer without disrupting formation of the heterodimer: a basis for circadian transcription.	The Drosophila CLOCK (dCLOCK) and CYCLE (CYC) (also referred to as dBMAL1) proteins are members of the basic helix-loop-helix PAS (PER-ARNT-SIM) superfamily of transcription factors and are required for high-level expression of the circadian clock genes period (per) and timeless (tim). Several lines of evidence indicate that PER, TIM, or a PER-TIM heterodimer somehow inhibit the transcriptional activity of a putative dCLOCK-CYC complex, generating a negative-feedback loop that is a core element of the Drosophila circadian oscillator. In this report we show that PER and/or TIM inhibits the binding of a dCLOCK-CYC heterodimer to an E-box-containing DNA fragment that is present in the 5' nontranscribed region of per and acts as a circadian enhancer element. Surprisingly, inhibition of this DNA binding activity by PER, TIM, or both is not accompanied by disruption of the association between dCLOCK and CYC. The results suggest that the interaction of PER, TIM, or both with the dCLOCK-CYC heterodimer induces a conformational change or masks protein regions in the heterodimer, leading to a reduction in DNA binding activity. Together with other findings, our results strongly suggest that daily cycles in the association of PER and TIM with the dCLOCK-CYC complex probably contribute to rhythmic expression of per and tim.
Role of secondary structure in discrimination between constitutive and inducible activators.	We have examined structural differences between the proto-oncogene c-Myb and the cyclic AMP-responsive factor CREB that underlie their constitutive or signal-dependent activation properties. Both proteins stimulate gene expression via activating regions that articulate with a shallow hydrophobic groove in the KIX domain of the coactivator CREB-binding protein (CBP). Three hydrophobic residues in c-Myb that are conserved in CREB function importantly in cellular gene activation and in complex formation with KIX. These hydrophobic residues are assembled on one face of an amphipathic helix in both proteins, and mutations that disrupt c-Myb or CREB helicity in this region block interaction of either factor with KIX. Binding of the helical c-Myb domain to KIX is accompanied by a substantial increase in entropy that compensates for the comparatively low enthalpy of complex formation. By contrast, binding of CREB to KIX entails a large entropy cost due to a random coil-to-helix transition in CREB that accompanies complex formation. These results indicate that the constitutive and inducible activation properties of c-Myb and CREB reflect secondary structural characteristics of their corresponding activating regions that influence the thermodynamics of formation of a complex with CBP.
Characterization of the AhR-hsp90-XAP2 core complex and the role of the immunophilin-related protein XAP2 in AhR stabilization.	The unliganded aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) exists in the cytoplasm in a tetrameric 9S core complex, consisting of the AhR ligand-binding subunit, a dimer of hsp90, and the hepatitis B virus X-associated protein 2 (XAP2), an immunophilin-related protein sharing homologous regions with FKBP12 and FKBP52. Interactions between the recently identified XAP2 subunit and other members of the unliganded AhR complex and its precise role in the AhR signal transduction pathway are presently unknown. Mapping studies indicate that XAP2 requires the PAS, hsp90, and ligand binding domain(s) of the AhR for binding, and that both proteins directly interact in the absence of hsp90. XAP2 is also able to interact with hsp90 complexes in the absence of the AhR, and C-terminal sequences of XAP2 are required for this interaction. XAP2 binds to the C-terminal end of hsp90, which contains a tetratricopeptide repeat domain acceptor site, whereas the AhR binds to a domain in the middle of hsp90. XAP2 was not found to be associated with the AhR-Arnt heterocomplex either in vitro or in nuclear extracts isolated from Hepa 1 cells treated with TCDD. Transient expression of XAP2 in COS-1 cells resulted in enhanced cytosolic AhR levels, suggesting a role for XAP2 in regulating the rate of AhR turnover.
Direct interaction of STAT4 with the IL-12 receptor.	Signal transduction by interleukin-12 (IL-12) requires phosphorylation and activation of STAT4. Direct interaction of the SH2 domain of STAT4 with a phosphotyrosine residue in the IL-12 receptor has been proposed to be required for the subsequent STAT4 phosphorylation. The IL-12 receptor beta2 subunit contains three tyrosine residues in its cytoplasmic domain. To test the hypothesis that one of these tyrosines is involved in binding STAT4, phosphopeptides were synthesized according to the amino acid sequences surrounding each of these tyrosine residues. Only the phosphopeptide containing pTyr800 strongly bound to STAT4 in a cell-free binding assay. When this phosphopeptide was introduced into TALL-104 cells, it blocked IL-12-induced STAT4 phosphorylation by competing with the IL-12 receptor for binding to STAT4. A series of alanine replacements was performed in this phosphopeptide to elucidate which amino acids surrounding the pTyr800 residue are critical for STAT4 binding. To summarize, the site on the IL-12 receptor which binds STAT4 can be described as -T-X-X-G-pY(800)-L-, where the core G-pY(800)-L motif is critical for the binding; the threonine at the pY-4 position has only a minor contribution and X represents amino acids not critical for the binding. These results demonstrate that only a small region of the IL-12 receptor is critically involved in binding STAT4 and suggest the feasibility that small molecule inhibitors could be identified which interfere with IL-12 signal transduction for treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Domain architecture of a high mobility group A-type bacterial transcriptional factor.	Myxococcus xanthus transcriptional factor CarD participates in carotenogenesis and fruiting body formation. It is the only reported prokaryotic protein having adjacent "AT-hook" DNA-binding and acidic regions characteristic of eukaryotic high mobility group A (HMGA) proteins. The latter are small, unstructured, nonhistone nuclear proteins that function as architectural factors to remodel DNA and chromatin structure and modulate various DNA binding activities. We find CarD to be predominantly dimeric with two stable domains: (a) an N-terminal domain of defined secondary and tertiary structure which is absent in eukaryotic HMGA proteins; (b) a C-terminal domain formed by the acidic and AT-hook segments and lacking defined structure. CarD, like HMGA proteins, binds specifically to the minor-groove of AT-rich DNA present in two appropriately spaced tracts. As in HMGA proteins, casein kinase II can phosphorylate the CarD acidic region, and this dramatically decreases the DNA binding affinity of CarD. The acidic region, in addition to modulating DNA binding, confers structural stability to CarD. We discuss how the structural and functional plasticity arising from domain organization in CarD could be linked to its role as a general transcriptional factor in M. xanthus.
Definition of a dioxin receptor mutant that is a constitutive activator of transcription: delineation of overlapping repression and ligand binding functions within the PAS domain.	The intracellular dioxin (aryl hydrocarbon) receptor is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the adaptive and toxic responses to environmental pollutants such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and structurally related congeners. Whereas the ligand-free receptor is characterized by its association with the molecular chaperone hsp90, exposure to ligand initiates a multistep activation process involving nuclear translocation, dissociation from the hsp90 complex, and dimerization with its partner protein Arnt. In this study, we have characterized a dioxin receptor deletion mutant lacking the minimal ligand-binding domain of the receptor. This mutant did not bind ligand and localized constitutively to the nucleus. However, this protein was functionally inert since it failed to dimerize with Arnt and to bind DNA. In contrast, a dioxin receptor deletion mutant lacking the minimal PAS B motif but maintaining the N-terminal half of the ligand-binding domain showed constitutive dimerization with Arnt, bound DNA, and activated transcription in a ligand-independent manner. Interestingly, this mutant showed a more potent functional activity than the dioxin-activated wild-type receptor in several different cell lines. In conclusion, the constitutively active dioxin receptor may provide an important mechanistic tool to investigate receptor-mediated regulatory pathways in closer detail.
The heme pocket afforded by Gly117 is crucial for proper heme ligation and activity of CooA.	CooA, a CO-sensing homodimeric transcription activator from Rhodospirillum rubrum, undergoes a conformational change in response to CO binding to its heme prosthetic group that allows it to bind specific DNA sequences. In a recent structural study (Lanzilotta, W. N., Schuller, D. J., Thorsteinsson, M. V., Kerby, R. L., Roberts, G. P., and Poulos, T. L. (2000) Nat. Struct. Biol. 7, 876-880), it was suggested that CO binding to CooA results in a modest repositioning of the C-helices that serve as the dimer interface. Gly(117) is one of the residues on the C-helix within 7 A of the heme iron on the Pro(2) side of the heme in CooA. Analysis of a series of Gly(117) variants revealed altered CO-sensing function and heme ligation states dependent on the size of the substituted amino acid at this position; bulky substitutions perturbed CooA both spectrally and functionally. A combination of spectroscopic and mutagenic studies showed that a representative Gly(117) variant, G117I CooA, was specifically perturbed in its Pro(2) ligation in both Fe(III) and Fe(II) forms, but comparison with other CooA variants indicated that perturbation of Pro(2) ligation is not the basis for the lack of CO response in G117I CooA. These results have led to the hypothesis that (i) the heme and the C-helix region move toward each other following CO binding and the interaction of the heme with the C-helix is crucial for CooA activation, and (ii) this event occurs only when a properly sized heme pocket is afforded.
Loss of Smad4 function in pancreatic tumors: C-terminal truncation leads to decreased stability.	At early stages of tumorigenesis, the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathway is thought to have tumor suppressor activity as a result of its ability to arrest the growth of epithelial cells. Smad4 plays a pivotal role in the TGF-beta signaling pathway and has been identified as a tumor suppressor, being mutated or deleted in approximately 50% of pancreatic carcinomas and 15% of colorectal cancers. A nonsense mutation generating a C-terminal truncation of 38 amino acids in the Smad4 protein has been identified in a pancreatic adenocarcinoma (Hahn, S. A., Schutte, M., Hoque, A. T., Moskaluk, C. A., da Costa, L. T., Rozenblum, E., Weinstein, C. L., Fischer, A., Yeo, C. J., Hruban, R. H., and Kern, S. E. (1996) Science 271, 350-353), and here we investigate the functional consequences of this mutation. We demonstrate that the C-terminal truncation prevents Smad4 homomeric complex formation and heteromeric complex formation with activated Smad2. Furthermore, the mutant protein is unable to be recruited to DNA by transcription factors and hence cannot form transcriptionally active DNA-binding complexes. These observations are supported by molecular modeling, which indicates that the truncation removes residues critical for homomeric and heteromeric Smad complex formation. We go on to show that the mutant Smad4 is highly unstable compared with wild type Smad4 and is rapidly degraded through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Consistent with this, we demonstrate that the pancreatic adenocarcinoma harboring this mutated allele, in conjunction with loss of the other allele, expresses no Smad4 protein. Thus we conclude that these tumors completely lack Smad4 activity.
Inhibitory cross-talk between STAT5b and liver nuclear factor HNF3beta: impact on the regulation of growth hormone pulse-stimulated, male-specific liver cytochrome P-450 gene expression.	STAT5b is repeatedly activated in rodent liver by the male pattern of intermittent plasma growth hormone (GH) stimulation and is required to maintain the GH pulse-regulated, male-specific pattern of liver gene expression. We presently investigate the interactions between STAT5b and hepatocyte-enriched nuclear factors (HNFs) that contribute to regulation of GH pulse-inducible, male-specific liver cytochrome P-450 (CYP) genes. STAT5 binding sites were identified in the 5'-flank of the adult male-expressed genes CYP2A2 (nucleotides -2255 to -2247), CYP4A2 (nucleotides -1872 to -1864), and CYP2C11 (nucleotides -1150 to -1142). STAT5-DNA complexes were formed by each CYP sequence with nuclear extract from GH pulse-activated male, but not female, rat liver. The CYP2C11 STAT5 site, which is flanked by HNF3 consensus sequences, conferred STAT5b-inducible reporter gene activity in GH-treated HepG2 cells. trans-Activation of the intact CYP2C11 promoter (1.8-kilobase 5'-flank) was strongly induced by the liver nuclear factors HNF1alpha and HNF3beta but, unexpectedly, was inhibited by GH-activated STAT5b. This STAT5b inhibitory effect could be reversed by HNF1alpha and reflects a functional antagonism between STAT5b and HNF3beta, as evidenced by the inhibition of HNF3beta DNA binding and transcriptional activity by STAT5b. HNF3beta, in turn, inhibited STAT5b by a novel mechanism that leads to suppression of GH-inducible STAT5b tyrosine phosphorylation, DNA binding activity, and transcriptional activity. The potential for GH-activated STAT5b to stimulate male-specific liver CYP expression can thus be modulated by HNF3beta, highlighting the complex interrelationship between STAT5b and liver transcription factors controlling expression of GH-regulated CYP genes.
Synergism between ERalpha transactivation function 1 (AF-1) and AF-2 mediated by steroid receptor coactivator protein-1: requirement for the AF-1 alpha-helical core and for a direct interaction between the N- and C-terminal domains.	The transcriptional activity of ERalpha (or NR3A1) after binding of ligand is mediated through synergistic action between activation functions (AFs) AF-1 and AF-2 and the transcriptional machinery. This is functionally achieved by bridging coactivators such as CEBP binding protein/p300 and members of the p160 subfamily such as steroid receptor coactivator protein-1 (SRC-1). We previously identified a conserved potential alpha-helical structure within the AF-1 functional core, and by evaluating point mutants of human ERalpha (hERalpha) within this region, we show that in transfection experiments this structure is required for synergism between SRC-1 and hERalpha. We report that the transcriptional synergism between AF-1 mutants and SRC-1 was abolished in AF-1-sensitive cells such as HepG2, whereas it was reduced by 50% in CHO-K1 cells, which have a mixed context that is sensitive to both the AF-1 and AF-2 regions of hERalpha. Glutathione-S-transferase pulldown assays demonstrate that the AF-1 core is able and sufficient for the hERalpha N-terminal region to interact with SRC-1. Interestingly, an enhancement of this recruitment in the presence of the hERalpha ligand-binding domain was observed, which was found to be dependent on a direct interaction between the N-terminal B domain and the ligand-binding domain. Another functional consequence of this physical interaction, which is promoted by both partial and full agonists of hERalpha, was an increase in the phosphorylation state of the N-terminal domain. Binding of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OHT) to the hERalpha C-terminal region induced a functional AF-1 conformation in vitro through this N- and C-terminal interaction. The involvement of an SRC-1-mediated pathway in transactivation mediated by hERalpha AF-1 was further substantiated by transfection experiments using the OHTresponsive human C3 promoter, which showed that OHT-induced hERalpha AF-1 activity was enhanced by SRC-1 and required the AF-1 alpha-helical structure. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the synergism between AF-1 and AF-2 is mediated in part by a cooperative recruitment of SRC-1 by both the AF-1 alpha-helical core and AF-2 regions and that it is stabilized by a direct interaction between the B and C-terminal domains. This interaction of SRC-1 with the AF-1 alpha-helical core is essential for both E2- and OHT-induced ERalpha activity.
Structure of the Yersinia type III secretory system chaperone SycE.	In the type III secretory system of bacterial pathogens, a large number of sequence-divergent but characteristically small (approximately 14-19 kDa), acidic (pI approximately 4-5) chaperone proteins have been identified. We present the 1.74 A resolution crystal structure of the Yersinia pseudotuberculosis chaperone SycE, whose action in promoting translocation of YopE into host macrophages is essential to Yersinia pathogenesis. SycE, a compact, globular dimer with a novel fold, has two large hydrophobic surface patches that may form binding sites for YopE or other type III components. These patches are formed by structurally key residues that are conserved among many chaperones, suggesting shared structural and functional relationships. A negative electrostatic potential covers almost the entire surface of SycE and is likely conserved in character, but not in detail, among chaperones. The structure provides the first structural insights into possible modes of action of SycE and type III chaperones in general.
Smad3 recruits the anaphase-promoting complex for ubiquitination and degradation of SnoN.	Smad proteins mediate transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling to regulate cell growth and differentiation. SnoN is an important negative regulator of TGF-beta signaling that functions to maintain the repressed state of TGF-beta target genes in the absence of ligand. On TGF-beta stimulation, Smad3 and Smad2 translocate into the nucleus and induce a rapid degradation of SnoN, allowing activation of TGF-beta target genes. We show that Smad2- or Smad3-induced degradation of SnoN requires the ubiquitin-dependent proteasome and can be mediated by the anaphase-promoting complex (APC) and the UbcH5 family of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. Smad3 and to a lesser extent, Smad2, interact with both the APC and SnoN, resulting in the recruitment of the APC to SnoN and subsequent ubiquitination of SnoN in a destruction box (D box)-dependent manner. In addition to the D box, efficient ubiquitination and degradation of SnoN also requires the Smad3 binding site in SnoN as well as key lysine residues necessary for ubiquitin attachment. Mutation of either the Smad3 binding site or lysine residues results in stabilization of SnoN and in enhanced antagonism of TGF-beta signaling. Our studies elucidate an important mechanism and pathway for the degradation of SnoN and more importantly, reveal a novel role of the APC in the regulation of TGF-beta signaling.
Functional analysis of the p300 acetyltransferase domain: the PHD finger of p300 but not of CBP is dispensable for enzymatic activity.	Acetylation of nucleosomal histones is a major regulatory step during activation of eukaryotic gene expression. Among the known acetyltransferase (AT) families, the structure-function relationship of the GNAT superfamily is the most well understood. In contrast, less information is available regarding mechanistic and regulatory aspects of p300/CBP AT function. In this paper, we investigate in closer detail the structure and sequence requirements for p300/CBP enzymatic activity. Unexpectedly, we find that the PHD finger of p300, but not of CBP, is dispensable for AT activity. In order to identify residues involved in substrate or acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) recognition, we have introduced 19 different amino acid substitutions in segments that are highly conserved between animal and plant p300/CBP proteins. By performing acetylation reactions with histones, a p53 peptide or the AT domain itself, we define several residues required for histone and p53 substrate recruitment but not for acetyl-CoA binding. Finally, we show that identical mutations in the p300 and CBP AT domain impair AT activity differently. This latter result combined with the finding of a differential requirement for the PHD finger provides evidence for structural differences between p300 and CBP that may in part underlie a previously reported functional specialization of the two proteins.
N-terminal truncations in the FhlA protein result in formate- and MoeA-independent expression of the hyc (formate hydrogenlyase) operon of Escherichia coli.	The formate hydrogenlyase complex of Escherichia coli catalyses the cleavage of formate to CO2 and H2 and consists of a molybdoenzyme formate dehydrogenase-H, hydrogenase 3 and intermediate electron carriers. The structural genes of this enzyme complex are activated by the FhlA protein in the presence of both formate and molybdate; ModE-Mo serves as a secondary activator. Mutational analysis of the FhlA protein established that the unique N-terminal region of this protein was responsible for formate- and molybdenum-dependent transcriptional control of the hyc operon. Analysis of the N-terminal sequence of the FhlA protein revealed a unique motif (amino acids 7-37), which is also found in ATPases associated with several members of the ABC-type transporter family. A deletion derivative of FhlA lacking these amino acids (FhlA9-2) failed to activate the hyc operon in vivo, although the FhlA9-2 did bind to hyc promoter DNA in vitro. The ATPase activity of the FhlA9-2-DNA-formate complex was at least three times higher than that of the native protein-DNA-formate complex, and this degree of activity was achieved at a lower formate level. Extending the deletion to amino acid 117 (FhlA167) not only reversed the FhlA(-) phenotype of FhlA9-2, but also led to both molybdenum- and formate-independence. Deleting the entire N-terminal domain (between amino acids 5 and 374 of the 692 amino acid protein) also led to an effector-independent transcriptional activator (FhlA165), which had a twofold higher level of hyc operon expression than the native protein. Both FhlA165 and FhlA167 still required ModE-Mo as a secondary activator for an optimal level of hyc-lac expression. The FhlA165 protein also had a twofold higher affinity to hyc promoter DNA than the native FhlA protein, while the FhlA167 protein had a significantly lower affinity for hyc promoter DNA in vitro. Although the ATPase activity of the native protein was increased by formate, the ATPase activity of neither FhlA165 or FhlA167 responded to formate. Removal of the first 117 amino acids of the FhlA protein appears to result in a constitutive, effector-independent activation of transcription of the genes encoding the components of the formate hydrogenlyase complex. The sequence similarity to ABC-ATPases, combined with the properties of the FhlA deletion proteins, led to the proposal that the N-terminal region of the native FhlA protein interacts with formate transport proteins, both as a formate transport facilitator and as a cytoplasmic acceptor.
Hepatitis B virus nucleic acids circulating in the blood: distinct patterns in HBs carriers with hepatocellular carcinoma.	Circulating nucleic acids in serum and plasma are common in a variety of disease conditions. Here, we focus (i) on our approach for the detection of various hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related nucleic acids in liver tissue and in serum, (ii) on the progression of the chronic HBV infection, (iii) on the relation of HBV-specific nucleic acids circulating in the blood of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, and in general (iv) on the diagnostic potential of circulating HBV nucleic acids.
Functional characterization of transcription regulators that interact with the electrophile response element.	The electrophile response element (EpRE), also referred to as the antioxidant responsive element (ARE), is found in the 5'-regulatory region of a number of genes encoding phase II, drug-metabolizing enzymes. Gene knockout studies have demonstrated the primary regulatory role that an Nrf2:Maf dimer plays by binding to nucleotides within the EpRE consensus sequence. Current models of transcription regulation have also shown the involvement of higher-order transcriptional coactivators, proteins that nucleate around DNA sequence-specific transcription factors, enhancing transcription of the target gene by interacting with components of the basal transcriptional apparatus and by enabling chromatin remodeling. Here, we hypothesized that multiple transcriptional regulators, including: (i) a primary Nrf2-Maf heterodimer, (ii) a proposed secondary, EpRE-specific, p160 family coactivator, ARE-binding protein-1, and (iii) a tertiary coactivator, CBP/p300, nucleate to form a complex at the EpRE that regulates transcription of the dependent gene. To test this hypothesis, we constructed a HepG2 cell line which contains a stably integrated green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene; its inducible expression is regulated by a synthetic TK promoter containing a linked EpRE. To identify the involvement of specific, primary and higher-order transcriptional regulators in the EpRE-mediated regulation of the GFP reporter gene, we microinjected antibodies directed against specific transcription factors into the HepG2/GFP cells and determined their effect upon tBHQ-induced expression of the GFP gene. The results demonstrate that microinjected antibodies directed against Nrf2, MafK, CBP and p300 could each, individually, significantly inhibit tBHQ-induced GFP expression. This directly demonstrates the role that the tertiary regulators, CBP or p300, play in mediating EpRE activation of phase II genes, and also implicates the involvement of secondary, p160 family coactivators. Moreover, we found that the same anti-MafK antibody that blocked induction of the EpRE-regulated GFP gene completely ablated the gel-shift complex that we hypothesize contains an Nrf2:Maf dimer, ARE-binding protein-1, and CBP or p300.
Interaction of lp-dlg/KIAA0583, a membrane-associated guanylate kinase family protein, with vinexin and beta-catenin at sites of cell-cell contact.	Vinexin is a recently identified cytoskeletal protein and plays a key role in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization and signal transduction. Vinexin localizes at sites of cell-extracellular matrix adhesion in NIH3T3 fibroblasts and at sites of cell-cell contact in epithelial LLC-PK1 cells. Expression of vinexin promotes the formation of actin stress fiber, but the role of vinexin at sites of cell-cell contact is unclear. Here we identified lp-dlg/KIAA0583 as a novel binding partner for vinexin by using yeast two-hybrid screening. lp-dlg/KIAA0583 has a NH2-terminal coiled-coil-like domain, in addition to four PDZ domains, an Src homology (SH) 3 domain, and a guanylate kinase domain, which are conserved structures in membrane-associated guanylate kinase family proteins. The third SH3 domain of vinexin bound to the region between the second and third PDZ domain of lp-dlg, which contains a proline-rich sequence. lp-dlg colocalized with vinexin at sites of cell-cell contact in LLC-PK1 cells. Furthermore, lp-dlg colocalized with beta-catenin, a major adherens junction protein, in LLC-PK1 cells. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that both endogenous and epitope-tagged deletion mutants of lp-dlg/KIAA0583 associated with beta-catenin. We also showed that these three proteins could form a ternary complex. Together these findings suggest that lp-dlg/KIAA0583 is a novel scaffolding protein that can link the vinexin-vinculin complex and beta-catenin at sites of cell-cell contact.
Insight into the role of Escherichia coli MobB in molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis based on the high resolution crystal structure.	Two proteins, which are co-transcribed in Escherichia coli (MobA and MobB), are involved in the attachment of a nucleotide moiety to the molybdenum cofactor to form active molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide. Although not essential for this process, the dimeric MobB increases the activation of molybdoenzymes, incorporating this cofactor by a mechanism that is not understood. The structure of MobB has been elucidated in two crystal forms, one of which has provided a model at 1.9-A resolution with Rwork and Rfree values of 21.5 and 28.7%, respectively. The MobB subunit displays an alpha/beta-fold arranged into a major and minor domain, the latter of which is inserted between the major and minor domains of the partner subunit, creating an elongated dimer constructed around a 16-stranded beta-sheet. Structural homologues have been identified, and they include a number of nucleotide-binding proteins. Comparisons indicate that although the phosphate-binding regions are highly conserved, MobB lacks the elements of structure required to interact with and efficiently bind a nucleotide base. In the present structure, a sulfate is bound to the Walker A phosphate-binding motif of MobB. The possibility that MobB forms a complex with the nucleotide-binding MobA, the protein with which it is co-transcribed, is explored, and modeling suggests that such a MobA:MobB complex is feasible. This hypothesis is supported by recent biochemical evidence indicating that MobB interacts with several proteins involved in various stages of molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis including MobA. We propose therefore that MobB is an adapter protein that acts in concert with MobA to achieve the efficient biosynthesis and utilization of molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide.
Functional interactions between the estrogen receptor coactivator PELP1/MNAR and retinoblastoma protein.	PELP1 (proline-, glutamic acid-, and leucine-rich protein-1 (also referred to as MNAR, or modulator of nongenomic activity of estrogen receptor)), a recently identified novel coactivator of estrogen receptors, is widely expressed in a variety of 17 beta-estradiol (E2)-responsive reproductive tissues and is developmentally regulated in mammary glands. pRb (retinoblastoma protein), a cell cycle switch protein, plays a fundamental role in the proliferation, development, and differentiation of eukaryotic cells. To study the putative function of PELP1, we established stable MCF-7 breast cancer cell lines overexpressing PELP1. PELP1 overexpression hypersensitized breast cancer cells to E2 signaling, enhanced progression of breast cancer cells to S phase, and led to persistent hyperphosphorylation of pRb in an E2-dependent manner. Using phosphorylation site-specific pRb antibodies, we identified Ser-807/Ser-811 of pRb as a potential target site of PELP1. Interestingly, PELP1 was discovered to be physiologically associated with pRb and interacted via its C-terminal pocket domain, and PELP1/pRb interaction could be modulated by antiestrogen agents. Using mutant pRb cells, we demonstrated an essential role for PELP1/pRb interactions in the maximal coactivation functions of PELP1 using cyclin D1 as one of the targets. Taken together, these findings suggest that PELP1, a steroid coactivator, plays a permissive role in E2-mediated cell cycle progression, presumably via its regulatory interaction with the pRb pathway.
Identification and characterization of human MUS81-MMS4 structure-specific endonuclease.	Replication forks may stall when they reach a block on the DNA template such as DNA damage, and the recovery of such stalled replication forks plays a crucial role in the maintenance of genomic stability. Holliday junctions, which are X-shaped DNA structures, are formed at the stalled replication forks and can accumulate if they are not cleaved by structure-specific endonucleases. Recently, a novel nuclease involved in resolving Holliday junction-like structures, Mus81, has been reported in yeast and humans. MUS81 has sequence homology to another DNA nuclease, XPF, which, with its partner ERCC1, makes the 5' incision during nucleotide excision repair. MUS81 also has a binding partner named Mms4 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Eme1 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, but no such partner was identified in human cells. Here, we report identification of the binding partner of human MUS81, which we designate hMMS4. Using immunoaffinity purification we show that hMUS81 or hMMS4 alone have no detectable nuclease activity, but that the hMUS81.hMMS4 complex is a structure-specific nuclease that is capable of resolving fork structures.
The use of phage display technique for the isolation of androgen receptor interacting peptides with (F/W)XXL(F/W) and FXXLY new signature motifs.	Early studies suggested that the signature motif, LXXLL, within steroid hormone receptor p160 coregulators may play important roles for the mediation of receptor-coregulator interaction. Interestingly, several androgen receptor (AR) coregulators, such as ARA70 and ARA55, may not use such a unique motif to mediate their coregulator activity. Here we apply the phage display technique to identify some new signature motifs, (F/W)XXL(F/W) and FXXLY (where F is phenylalanine, W is tryptophan, L is leucine, Y is tyrosine, and X is any amino acid) that can influence the interaction between AR and AR coregulators. Sequence analyses found that several AR coregulators, such as ARA70, ARA55, ARA54, and FHL2, contain FXXL(F/Y) motifs. Both glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays and transient transfection reporter assays demonstrate that these AR coregulators may use the FXXL(F/Y) motif to interact with AR and exert their AR coregulator activity. Exchanging the amino acid of Phe, Trp, or Tyr in this newly identified signature motif cluster may influence these peptides to interact with AR. The motif-containing peptides, as well as ARA70 or ARA54, may require selective flanking sequences for the better interaction with AR. In addition to influencing the AR transactivation, these motifs in AR-interacting peptides/proteins were also able to influence the AR N-/C-terminal interaction. Together, our data suggest that AR interacting peptides and/or AR coregulators may utilize the (F/W)XXL(F/W) and FXXLY motifs to mediate their interaction with AR and exert their influences on the AR transactivation.
PIASx is a transcriptional co-repressor of signal transducer and activator of transcription 4.	In response to interleukin 12 (IL-12) stimulation, a latent cytoplasmic transcription factor, Stat4 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 4), becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated and translocates into the nucleus where it binds to DNA to activate transcription. Cofactors that can directly bind and regulate Stat4 activity have not been described. We report here that PIASx, a member of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family, is a negative regulator of Stat4. PIASx becomes associated with Stat4 following IL-12 stimulation in vivo. PIASx inhibits IL-12-stimulated and Stat4-dependent gene activation in human T cells. PIASx does not inhibit the DNA binding activity of Stat4. Instead PIASx is present in the Stat4-DNA binding complex. Finally the inhibitory activity of PIASx on Stat4-mediated gene activation is abolished by the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Our results suggest that PIASx may function as a co-repressor of Stat4.
Biochemical and structural analysis of the molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis protein MobA.	Molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide (MGD) is the form of the molybdenum cofactor that is required for the activity of most bacterial molybdoenzymes. MGD is synthesized from molybdopterin (MPT) and GTP in a reaction catalyzed by the MobA protein. Here we report that wild type MobA can be copurified along with bound MPT and MGD, demonstrating a tight binding of both its substrate and product. To study structure-function relationships, we have constructed a number of site-specific mutations of the most highly conserved amino acid residues of the MobA protein family. Variant MobA proteins were characterized for their ability to support the synthesis of active molybdenum enzymes, to bind MPT and MGD, to interact with the molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis proteins MobB and MoeA. They were also characterized by x-ray structural analysis. Our results suggest an essential role for glycine 15 of MobA, either for GTP binding and/or catalysis, and an involvement of glycine 82 in the stabilization of the product-bound form of the enzyme. Surprisingly, the individual and double substitution of asparagines 180 and 182 to aspartate did not affect MPT binding, catalysis, and product stabilization.
RING finger protein AO7 supports NF-kappaB-mediated transcription by interacting with the transactivation domain of the p65 subunit.	In this study, a novel interactor of the p65 subunit (RelA) of NF-kappaB has been explored by performing yeast two-hybrid screen using the transactivation domain (TAD) of p65 located in the C terminus as bait. We have isolated a RING finger motif-containing protein, AO7, previously identified as an interacting protein with a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, Ubc5B. We confirmed the protein-protein interaction between p65 and AO7 in vitro and in vivo and found that the C-terminal region of AO7 is responsible for the interaction with p65 TAD. AO7 was predominantly localized in the nucleus and activated the NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression upon stimulation with IL-1beta or TNF or overexpression of NF-kappaB-inducing kinase. We found that both the RING finger and the C-terminal regions of AO7 were necessary for the transcriptional activation. When cotransfected with plasmids expressing Gal4-p65 fusion proteins containing various functional domains of p65, we found that p65 TAD was essential for the transcriptional activation mediated by AO7. Furthermore, the p65-mediated transactivation was suppressed by a ubiquitination-defective AO7 mutant in which the essential Cys residue within the RING finger motif was substituted by Ser. These data suggest that AO7 interacts with the p65 TAD and modulates its transcriptional activity.
Myocardin is a master regulator of smooth muscle gene expression.	Virtually all smooth muscle genes analyzed to date contain two or more essential binding sites for serum response factor (SRF) in their control regions. Because SRF is expressed in a wide range of cell types, it alone cannot account for smooth muscle-specific gene expression. We show that myocardin, a cardiac muscle- and smooth muscle-specific transcriptional coactivator of SRF, can activate smooth muscle gene expression in a variety of nonmuscle cell types via its association with SRF. Homodimerization of myocardin is required for maximal transcriptional activity and provides a mechanism for cooperative activation of smooth muscle genes by SRF-myocardin complexes bound to different SRF binding sites. These findings identify myocardin as a master regulator of smooth muscle gene expression and explain how SRF conveys smooth muscle specificity to its target genes.
Contribution to stability and folding of a buried polar residue at the CARM1 methylation site of the KIX domain of CBP.	The transcriptional coactivator and acetyltransferase CREB Binding Protein (CBP) is comprised of several autonomously folded and functionally independent domains. The KIX domain mediates interactions between CBP and numerous transcriptional activators. The folded region of KIX has all the structural features of a globular protein, including three alpha-helices, two short 3(10) helices, and a well-packed hydrophobic core. KIX contains a buried cation-pi interaction between the positively charged guanidinium group of Arg 600 and the aromatic ring of Tyr 640. Arg 600 is a site for regulatory methylation by CARM1/PRMT4, which negates the CREB-binding function of the KIX domain. The role of the Arg 600-Tyr 640 buried polar interaction in specifying and stabilizing the structure of KIX was investigated by comparing the folding of wild-type KIX with the single point mutants Y640F and R600M. The Y640F mutant disrupts a hydrogen bond involving the Tyr 640 OH and the backbone of V595 but still allows for the cation-pi interaction while the R600M mutant disrupts the cation-pi interaction. Both wild type KIX and Y640F exhibit properties expected of native like, globular proteins such as a single oligomerization state (monomer), cooperative thermal and urea-induced unfolding transitions, and a well-packed core. In contrast, the R600M mutant has properties reminiscent of a molten globule state, including a tendency to aggregate, noncooperative thermal unfolding transition, and a loosely packed core. Thus, the buried cation-pi interaction is critical for specifying the unique cooperatively folded structure of KIX.
The transcriptional activator GAL4-VP16 regulates the intra-molecular interactions of the TATA-binding protein.	Binding characteristics of yeast TATA-binding protein (yTBP) over five oligomers having different TATA variants and lacking a UASGAL, showed that TATA-binding protein (TBP)-TATA complex gets stabilized in the presence of the acidic activator GAL4-VP16. Activator also greatly suppressed the non-specific TBP-DNA complex formation. The effects were more pronounced over weaker TATA boxes. Activator also reduced the TBP dimer levels both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting the dimer may be a direct target of transcriptional activators. The transcriptional activator facilitated the dimer to monomer transition and activated monomers further to help TBP bind even the weaker TATA boxes stably. The overall stimulatory effect of the GAL4-VP16 on the TBP-TATA complex formation resembles the known effects of removal of the N-terminus of TBP on its activity, suggesting that the activator directly targets the N-terminus of TBP and facilitates its binding to the TATA box.
PprI: a general switch responsible for extreme radioresistance of Deinococcus radiodurans.	Deinococcus radiodurans exhibits an extraordinary ability to withstand the lethal and mutagenic effects of DNA damaging agents, particularly, ionizing radiation. Available evidence indicates that efficient repair of DNA damage and protection of the chromosomal structure are mainly responsible for the radioresistance. Little is known about the biochemical basis for this phenomenon. We have identified a unique gene, pprI, as a general switch for downstream DNA repair and protection pathways, from a natural mutant, in which pprI is disrupted by a transposon. Complete functional disruption of the gene in wild-type leads to dramatic sensitivity to ionizing radiation. Radioresistance of the disruptant could be fully restored by complementation with pprI. In response to radiation stress, PprI can significantly and specifically induce the gene expression of recA and pprA and enhance the enzyme activities of catalases. These results strongly suggest that PprI plays a crucial role in regulating multiple DNA repair and protection pathways in response to radiation stress.
Biologic activity of polyethylene glycol12000-interferon-alpha2b compared with interferon-alpha2b: gene modulatory and antigrowth effects in tumor cells.	The relative activities of interferon-alpha2b (IFN-alpha2b) and polyethylene glycol(12000)-IFN-alpha2b (PEG-IFN-alpha2b) were assessed in cell culture studies using WM9 melanoma or ACHN renal cell carcinoma cell lines. Interferon-alpha2b and PEG-IFN-alpha2b had identical antiproliferative activities when tested in cell proliferation studies conducted with equivalent antiviral units of each IFN preparation. Neither IFN formulation was effective in inducing apoptosis in WM9 melanoma cells, but both increased slightly the percentage of ACHN cells undergoing apoptosis as assessed by Annexin V staining. Interferon-alpha2b and PEG-IFN-alpha2b both activated signal transducer and activator of transcription complexes, and the duration of complex activation was similar for both IFN formulations. Induction of different IFN-stimulated genes was assessed by Northern blotting and the quantitative real-time reverse transcription-coupled polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in WM9 melanoma, ACHN renal cell carcinoma, U937 lymphoma, and MOLT-4 and Mono Mac 6 leukemia cell lines. Interferon-alpha2b and PEG-IFN-alpha2b had equivalent gene-modulatory activities within each of these tumor cell lines, although cell line-specific induction patterns were observed. When compared with the antiviral 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) values, the dose-dependent gene expression data correlated with cell sensitivity to IFN treatment. Together, the drug comparability and cell sensitivity data suggest a predictive relation between dose, time, antiviral activity, and gene transcription effects. Therefore, although the specific activity of IFN-alpha2b is approximately three times greater than PEG-IFN-alpha2b, the two preparations have identical in vitro biologic activities when applied to cells at equivalent antiviral units.
Enhancer sequences influence the role of the amino-terminal domain of bicoid in transcription.	Bicoid (Bcd) is a Drosophila melanogaster morphogenetic gradient that controls embryonic patterning by activating target gene expression in a concentration-dependent manner. In this study we describe experiments to determine how different enhancers respond to Bcd distinctively, focusing on two natural Bcd-responsive enhancer elements, hunchback (hb) and knirps (kni). Our results show that, on the hb enhancer element, the amino-terminal domain of Bcd (residues 1 to 91) plays primarily an inhibitory role, whereas on the kni enhancer element this same Bcd domain plays a positive role at low protein concentrations. We further demonstrate that while the amino-terminal domain is largely dispensable for cooperative binding to the hb enhancer element, it is preferentially required for cooperative binding to the kni enhancer element. Alteration of the arrangement of Bcd binding sites in the kni enhancer element reduces the role of the amino-terminal domain in cooperative DNA binding but increases the effectiveness of the self-inhibitory function. In addition, elimination of symmetric pairs of Bcd binding sites in the kni enhancer element reduces both DNA binding and activation by Bcd. We propose that the amino-terminal domain of Bcd is an enhancer-specific switch that contributes to the protein's ability to activate different target genes in distinct manners.
Trans-acting hepatitis delta virus ribozyme: catalytic core and global structure are dependent on the 5' substrate sequence.	The hepatitis delta virus (HDV), an infectious human pathogen affecting millions of people worldwide, leads to intensified disease symptoms, including progression to liver cirrhosis upon coinfection with its helper virus, HBV. Both the circular RNA genome of HDV and its complementary antigenome contain a common cis-cleaving catalytic RNA motif, the HDV ribozyme, which plays a crucial role in viral replication. Previously, the crystal structure of the product form of the cis-acting genomic HDV ribozyme has been determined, and the precursor form has been suggested to be structurally similar. In contrast, solution studies by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) on a trans-cleaving form of the ribozyme have shown significant global conformational changes upon catalysis, while 2-aminopurine (AP) fluorescence assays have detected concomitant local conformational changes in the catalytic core. Here, we augment these studies by using terbium(III) to probe the structure of the trans-acting HDV ribozyme at nucleotide resolution. We observe significant structural differences between the precursor and product forms, especially in the P1.1 helix and the trefoil turn in the single-stranded region connecting P4 and P2 (termed J4/2) of the catalytic core. We show, using terbium(III) footprinting and sensitized luminescence spectroscopy as well as steady-state, time-resolved, and gel-mobility FRET assays on a systematic set of substrates, that the substrate sequence immediately 5' to the cleavage site significantly modulates these local as well as resultant global structural differences. Our results suggest a structural basis for the previously observed impact of the 5' substrate sequence on catalytic activity.
The SmtB/ArsR family of metalloregulatory transcriptional repressors: Structural insights into prokaryotic metal resistance.	The SmtB/ArsR family of prokaryotic metalloregulatory transcriptional repressors represses the expression of operons linked to stress-inducing concentrations of di- and multivalent heavy metal ions. Derepression results from direct binding of metal ions by these homodimeric "metal sensor" proteins. An evolutionary analysis, coupled with comparative structural and spectroscopic studies of six SmtB/ArsR family members, suggests a unifying "theme and variations" model, in which individual members have evolved distinct metal selectivity profiles by alteration of one or both of two structurally distinct metal coordination sites. These two metal sites are designated alpha3N (or alpha3) and alpha5 (or alpha5C), named for the location of the metal binding ligands within the known or predicted secondary structure of individual family members. The alpha3N/alpha3 sensors, represented by Staphylococcus aureus pI258 CadC, Listeria monocytogenes CadC and Escherichia coli ArsR, form cysteine thiolate-rich coordination complexes (S(3) or S(4)) with thiophilic heavy metal pollutants including Cd(II), Pb(II), Bi(III) and As(III) via inter-subunit coordination by ligands derived from the alpha3 helix and the N-terminal "arm" (CadCs) or from the alpha3 helix only (ArsRs). The alpha5/alpha5C sensors Synechococcus SmtB, Synechocystis ZiaR, S. aureus CzrA, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis NmtR form metal complexes with biologically required metal ions Zn(II), Co(II) and Ni(II) characterized by four or more coordination bonds to a mixture of histidine and carboxylate ligands derived from the C-terminal alpha5 helices on opposite subunits. Direct binding of metal ions to either the alpha3N or alpha5 sites leads to strong, negative allosteric regulation of repressor operator/promoter binding affinity, consistent with a simple model for derepression. We hypothesize that distinct allosteric pathways for metal sensing have co-evolved with metal specificities of distinct alpha3N and alpha5 coordination complexes.
PDX-1 protein containing its own antennapedia-like protein transduction domain can transduce pancreatic duct and islet cells.	The pancreatic and duodenal homeobox factor-1 (PDX-1), also known as IDX-1/STF-1/IPF1, a homeodomain-containing transcription factor, plays a central role in regulating pancreatic development and insulin gene transcription. Furthermore, even in adults, PDX-1 is associated with islet neogenesis and differentiation of insulin-producing cells from progenitor cells. Here, we report for the first time that PDX-1 protein can permeate cells due to an Antennapedia-like protein transduction domain sequence in its structure and that transduced PDX-1 functions similarly to endogenous PDX-1; it binds to the insulin promoter and activates its expression. PDX-1 protein can also permeate into isolated pancreatic islets, which leads to stimulation of insulin gene expression. Moreover, PDX-1 protein transduced into cultures of pancreatic ducts, thought to be islet progenitor cells, induces insulin gene expression. These data suggest that PDX-1 protein transduction could be a safe and valuable strategy for enhancing insulin gene transcription and for facilitating differentiation of ductal progenitor cells into insulin-producing cells without requiring gene transfer technology.
The zipper region of Epstein-Barr virus bZIP transcription factor Zta is necessary but not sufficient to direct DNA binding.	The viral bZIP transcription factor Zta (BZLF1, EB1, ZEBRA) mediates the switch between the latent and lytic cycles of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). In part, its activity requires the formation of homodimers and interaction with specific DNA sequence elements (ZREs). Zta has an atypical zipper motif that has a lower stability than do typical bZIP proteins. Here we show that a synthetic peptide directed against the zipper can disrupt the DNA-binding function of Zta. This highlights the relevance of this region for the function of Zta and demonstrates that the zipper region is a potential target for therapeutic agents. We also unmask the relevance of a region adjacent to the zipper (CT region), which is required to direct the interaction of Zta with DNA and to transactivate ZRE-dependent promoters in vivo.
EBP50, a beta-catenin-associating protein, enhances Wnt signaling and is over-expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma.	Wnt signaling mediated by beta-catenin plays crucial roles in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma and other cancers such as colorectal cancer. beta-Catenin associates with T-cell factor (TCF) transcription factors and functions as a transcriptional activator in the nucleus. By protein interaction screening, we identified EBP50, a cytoplasmic protein with 2 PDZ domains, as a beta-catenin-associating molecule. EBP50 interacted with beta-catenin through its carboxyl-PDZ domain in vitro and in vivo. Northern blot and RT-PCR analysis revealed an increase of EBP50 messenger RNA (mRNA) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines and surgical specimens of human HCC. Over-expression of EBP50 protein with focal nuclear localization was detected in human HCC. In human HCC and colorectal cancer cell lines, EBP50 enhanced beta-catenin/TCF-dependent transcription in a dose-dependent manner. In an HCC cell line, over-expression of the carboxyl PDZ domain resulted in a decrease of endogenous beta-catenin/TCF transactivation. EBP50 promoted beta-catenin-mediated transactivation only in cells in which beta-catenin was already stabilized, suggesting that EBP50 may work with stabilized beta-catenin for transcriptional regulation. In conclusion, the EBP50/beta-catenin complex promotes Wnt signaling, and over-expression of EBP50 may work cooperatively with beta-catenin in the development of liver cancer.
Identification of the domains for DNA binding and transactivation function of C protein from bacteriophage Mu.	The C protein, a middle gene product of bacteriophage Mu, is the determinant of the transition from middle to late gene expression. C activates transcription from four late gene promoters, P(lys), P(I), P(P), and P(mom) by binding to a site overlapping their -35 elements. Site-specific, high-affinity binding of C to its recognition sequence results in both axial and torsional distortion of DNA at P(mom), which appears to play a role in recruitment of RNA polymerase to the promoter for mom gene transactivation. To identify the regions of C protein important for its function, deletion and site-directed mutagenesis were carried out. We demonstrate here that a helix-turn-helix (HTH) motif located toward the carboxy terminal end of the protein is the DNA-binding domain and amino acid residues involved in transactivation overlap the HTH motif. Mutagenesis studies also aided in the identification of the region important for dimerization. Structure-based sequence alignment and molecular modeling in conjunction with mutational analysis suggest that the HTH motif is part of a three-helix bundle, with remarkable similarity to paired (prd), a developmental regulatory protein from Drosophila. Additional key residues identified in the model to be crucial for C protein structure and DNA binding were shown to be important by mutagenesis. These results provide a structural framework for C function and insight into the mechanism of transactivation at the mom promoter.
Energetics and specificity of interactions within Ub.Uev.Ubc13 human ubiquitin conjugation complexes.	Lys(63)-linked polyubiquitin (poly-Ub) chains appear to play a nondegradative signaling and/or recruitment role in a variety of key eukaryotic cellular processes, including NF-kappaB signal transduction and DNA repair. A protein heterodimer composed of a catalytically active ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (Ubc13) and its homologue (Mms2 or Uev1a) forms a catalytic scaffold upon which a noncovalently associated acceptor Ub and thiolester-linked donor Ub are oriented such that Lys(63)-linked poly-Ub chain synthesis is facilitated. In this study, we have used (1)H-(15)N nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, in combination with isothermal titration calorimetry, to determine the thermodynamics and kinetics of the interactions between various components of the Lys(63)-linked poly-Ub conjugation machinery. Mms2 and Uev1a interact in vitro with acceptor Ub to form 1/1 complexes with macroscopic dissociation constants of 98 +/- 15 and 213 +/- 14 microM, respectively, and appear to bind Ub in a similar fashion. Interestingly, the Mms2.Ubc13 heterodimer associates with acceptor Ub in a 1/1 complex and binds with a dissociation constant of 28 +/- 6 microM, significantly stronger than the binding of Mms2 alone. Furthermore, a dissociation constant of 49 +/- 7 nM was determined for the interaction between Mms2 and Ubc13 using isothermal titration calorimetry. In connection with previous structural studies for this system, the thermodynamics and kinetics of acceptor Ub binding to the Mms2.Ubc13 heterodimer described in detail in this study will allow for a more thorough rationalization of the mechanism of formation of Lys(63)-linked poly-Ub chains.
FRIZZY PANICLE is required to prevent the formation of axillary meristems and to establish floral meristem identity in rice spikelets.	Inflorescences of grass species have a distinct morphology in which florets are grouped in compact branches called spikelets. Although many studies have shown that the molecular and genetic mechanisms that control floret organ formation are conserved between monocots and dicots, little is known about the genetic pathway leading to spikelet formation. In the frizzy panicle (fzp) mutant of rice, the formation of florets is replaced by sequential rounds of branching. Detailed analyses revealed that several rudimentary glumes are formed in each ectopic branch, indicating that meristems acquire spikelet identity. However, instead of proceeding to floret formation, axillary meristems are formed in the axils of rudimentary glumes and they either arrest or develop into branches of higher order. The fzp mutant phenotype suggests that FZP is required to prevent the formation of axillary meristems within the spikelet meristem and permit the subsequent establishment of floral meristem identity. The FZP gene was isolated by transposon tagging. FZP encodes an ERF transcription factor and is the rice ortholog of the maize BD1 gene. Consistent with observations from phenotypic analyses, FZP expression was found to be restricted to the time of rudimentary glumes differentiation in a half-ring domain at the base of which the rudimentary glume primordium emerged.
Library screening for synthetic agonists and antagonists of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa autoinducer.	The autoinducer (AI) that initiates the quorum sensing (QS) signaling cascade in Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an acyl-homoserine lactone (acyl-HSL). We initiated a study of the requirements for binding of the AI to its protein effector LasR by synthesizing a library of analogs with the HSL moiety replaced with different amines and alcohols. We tested each compound for both agonist and antagonist activity using a QS-controlled reporter gene assay and found several new agonists and antagonists. A representative antagonist was further tested for its ability to inhibit virulence factors. This data progresses our understanding of the LasR-AI interaction toward the rational design of therapeutic inhibitors of QS.
Structural analysis of the domain interface in DrrB, a response regulator of the OmpR/PhoB subfamily.	The N-terminal regulatory domains of bacterial response regulator proteins catalyze phosphoryl transfer and function as phosphorylation-dependent regulatory switches to control the output activities of C-terminal effector domains. Structures of numerous isolated regulatory and effector domains have been determined. However, a detailed understanding of regulatory interactions among these domains has been limited by the relative paucity of structural data for intact multidomain response regulator proteins. The first multidomain structures determined, those of transcription factor NarL and methylesterase CheB, both revealed extensive interdomain interfaces. The regulatory domains obstruct access to the functional sites of the effector domains, indicating a regulatory mechanism based on inhibition. In contrast, the recently determined structure of the OmpR/PhoB homologue DrrD revealed no significant interdomain interface, suggesting that the domains are tethered by a flexible linker and lack a fixed orientation relative to each other. To address the generality of this feature, we have determined the 1.8-A resolution crystal structure of Thermotoga maritima DrrB, providing a second structure of a multidomain response regulator of the OmpR/PhoB subfamily. The structure reveals an extensive domain interface of 751 A(2) and therefore differs greatly from that observed in DrrD. Residues that are crucial players in defining the activation state of the regulatory domain contribute to this interface, implying that conformational changes associated with phosphorylation will influence these intramolecular contacts. The DrrB and DrrD structures are suggestive of different signaling mechanisms, with intramolecular communication between N- and C-terminal domains making substantially different contributions to effector domain regulation in individual members of the OmpR/PhoB family.
A luxR homolog, aviR, in Agrobacterium vitis is associated with induction of necrosis on grape and a hypersensitive response on tobacco.	A Tn5 mutant of Agrobacterium vitis F2/5 (M1154) differs from the wild-type strain in that it has lost its abilities to cause necrosis on grape and a hypersensitive-like response (HR) on tobacco. The Tn5 insertion occurred in an open reading frame (ORF) aviR that is homologous to genes encoding the LuxR family of transcriptional regulators, thereby suggesting that the HR and necrosis are regulated by a quorum-sensing system. Fewer N-acyl-homoserine lactone autoinducers were detected in extracts from M1154 compared with extracts from F2/5 and from aviR-complemented M1154. The complemented mutant regained full ability to cause grape necrosis and HR. Eighteen ORFs located on a 36.6-kb insert in cosmid clone CPB221, which includes aviR, were sequenced and aligned with homologous genes from A. tumefaciens C58 and Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021. The order of several clustered genes is conserved among the bacteria; however, rearrangements are also apparent. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated that ORF2 and ORF14 may be regulated by an aviR-encoded transcriptional regulator. Single site-directed mutations in each of the ORFs, however, had no effect on expression of HR or necrosis as compared with the wild-type parent.
IRAK-dependent phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine 727 in response to interleukin-1 and effects on gene expression.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) induces the phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine 727 but not on tyrosine 701. Analyses of mutant I1A cells, which lack the IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK), and of I1A cells reconstituted with deletion mutants of IRAK show that the IL-1-mediated phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine requires the IRAK protein but not its kinase activity and does not involve phosphatidylinositol-3'-kinase (PI3K) or the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases p38 or ERK. IRAK and Stat1 interact in vivo, and this interaction is increased in response to IL-1, suggesting that IRAK may serve to recruit the as yet unknown IL-1-induced Stat1 serine kinase. Chemical inhibitors or dominant-negative forms of signaling components required to activate NF-kappa B, ATF, or AP-1 in response to IL-1 do not affect the phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine. IL-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) enhance the serine phosphorylation of Stat1 that occurs in response to interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and potentiate IFN-gamma-mediated, Stat1-driven gene expression, thus contributing to the synergistic activities of these proinflammatory cytokines.
Dissection of cauliflower mosaic virus transactivator/viroplasmin reveals distinct essential functions in basic virus replication.	Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) transactivator/viroplasmin (Tav) is an essential multifunctional viral protein. Dissection of Tav by deletion mutagenesis revealed that the central region is essential for CaMV replication in single cells but that the N- and C-terminal parts are not. Strains with mutations in the central region were defective in the translational transactivator function and could be complemented by coexpressing Gag (capsid protein precursor) and Pol (polyprotein with protease, reverse transcriptase, and RNase H activity) from separate monocistronic plasmids. In contrast, total omission of Tav was only partially complemented by Gag and Pol overexpression from separate plasmids. These results indicate that CaMV basic replication requires both Tav-activated polycistronic translation and some posttranslational function(s) of Tav that is not affected by the deletions in the central region of Tav.
Structural studies of the acidic transactivation domain of the Vmw65 protein of herpes simplex virus using 1H NMR.	We have overproduced and purified the carboxy-terminal transactivation domain of Vmw65 (VP16) of herpes simplex virus, and studied potential folding of the domain by 1H NMR. Two species of the acidic domain were obtained from the bacterial expression system, and we demonstrate that one of these represents read-through of the natural amber termination codon of the Vmw65 reading frame producing a larger polypeptide. Additional residues in the read-through product were identified by total amino acid analysis and by NMR. Study of the correctly terminated product by 1D NMR gave resonances which were clustered into groups around their random-coil chemical shift positions, and 2D NMR demonstrated that, even in mixed solvents containing up to 80% MeOH, there was very little evidence of secondary structure. Together these results indicate that the isolated acid domain has little if any alpha-helical content of any stable nature. We discuss these results with reference to the demonstrated activity of the acidic domain in a wide variety of polypeptide contexts.
Real time analysis of STAT3 nucleocytoplasmic shuttling.	The transcription factor STAT3 is most important for the signal transduction of interleukin-6 and related cytokines. Upon stimulation cytoplasmic STAT3 is phosphorylated at tyrosine 705, translocates into the nucleus, and induces target genes. Notably, STAT proteins are also detectable in the nuclei of unstimulated cells. In this report we introduce a new method for the real time analysis of STAT3 nucleocytoplasmic shuttling in living cells which is based on the recently established fluorescence localization after photobleaching (FLAP) approach. STAT3 was C-terminally fused with the cyan (CFP) and yellow (YFP) variants of the green fluorescent protein. In the resulting STAT3-CFP-YFP (STAT3-CY) fusion protein the YFP can be selectively bleached using the 514-nm laser of a confocal microscope. This setting allows studies on the dynamics of STAT3 nucleocytoplasmic transport by monitoring the subcellular distribution of fluorescently labeled and selectively bleached STAT3-CY. By this means we demonstrate that STAT3-CY shuttles continuously between the cytosol and the nucleus in unstimulated cells. This constitutive shuttling does not depend on the phosphorylation of tyrosine 705 because a STAT3(Y705F)-CY mutant shuttles to the same extent as STAT3-CY. Experiments with deletion mutants reveal that the N-terminal moiety of STAT3 is essential for shuttling. Further studies suggest that a decrease in STAT3 nuclear export contributes to the nuclear accumulation of STAT3 in response to cytokine stimulation. The new approach presented in this study is generally applicable to any protein of interest for analyzing nucleocytoplasmic transport mechanisms in real time.
Crystal structure of the human RORalpha Ligand binding domain in complex with cholesterol sulfate at 2.2 A.	The retinoic acid-related orphan receptor alpha (RORalpha) is an orphan member of the subfamily 1 of nuclear hormone receptors. Our recent structural and functional studies have led to the hypothesis that cholesterol or a cholesterol derivative is the natural ligand of RORalpha. We have now solved the x-ray crystal structure of the ligand binding domain of RORalpha in complex with cholesterol-3-O-sulfate following a ligand exchange experiment. In contrast to the 3-hydroxyl of cholesterol, the 3-O-sulfate group makes additional direct hydrogen bonds with three residues of the RORalpha ligand binding domain, namely NH-Gln(289), NH-Tyr(290), and NH1-Arg(370). When compared with the complex with cholesterol, seven well ordered water molecules have been displaced, and the ligand is slightly shifted toward the hydrophilic part of the ligand binding pocket, which is ideally suited for interactions with a sulfate group. These additional ligand-protein interactions result in an increased affinity of cholesterol sulfate when compared with cholesterol, as shown by mass spectrometry analysis done under native conditions and differential scanning calorimetry. Moreover, mutational studies show that the higher binding affinity of cholesterol sulfate translates into an increased transcriptional activity of RORalpha. Our findings suggest that cholesterol sulfate could play a crucial role in the regulation of RORalpha in vivo.
A Conserved alpha-helical motif mediates the binding of diverse nuclear proteins to the SRC1 interaction domain of CBP.	CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300 contain modular domains that mediate protein-protein interactions with a wide variety of nuclear factors. A C-terminal domain of CBP (referred to as the SID) is responsible for interaction with the alpha-helical AD1 domain of p160 coactivators such as the steroid receptor coactivator (SRC1), and also other transcriptional regulators such as E1A, Ets-2, IRF3, and p53. Here we show that the pointed (PNT) domain of Ets-2 mediates its interaction with the CBP SID, and describe the effects of mutations in the SID on binding of Ets-2, E1A, and SRC1. In vitro binding studies indicate that SRC1, Ets-2 and E1A display mutually exclusive binding to the CBP SID. Consistent with this, we observed negative cross-talk between ERalpha/SRC1, Ets-2, and E1A proteins in reporter assays in transiently transfected cells. Transcriptional inhibition of Ets-2 or GAL4-AD1 activity by E1A was rescued by co-transfection with a CBP expression plasmid, consistent with the hypothesis that the observed inhibition was due to competition for CBP in vivo. Sequence comparisons revealed that SID-binding proteins contain a leucine-rich motif similar to the alpha-helix Aalpha1 of the SRC1 AD1 domain. Deletion mutants of E1A and Ets-2 lacking the conserved motif were unable to bind the CBP SID. Moreover, a peptide corresponding to this sequence competed the binding of full-length SRC1, Ets-2, and E1A proteins to the CBP SID. Thus, a leucine-rich amphipathic alpha-helix mediates mutually exclusive interactions of functionally diverse nuclear proteins with CBP.
Crystal structure of the Mor protein of bacteriophage Mu, a member of the Mor/C family of transcription activators.	Transcription from the middle promoter, Pm, of bacteriophage Mu requires the phage-encoded activator protein Mor and bacterial RNA polymerase. Mor is a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that mediates transcription activation through its interactions with the C-terminal domains of the alpha and sigma subunits of bacterial RNA polymerase. Here we present the first structure for a member of the Mor/C family of transcription activators, the crystal structure of Mor to 2.2-A resolution. Each monomer of the Mor dimer is composed of two domains, the N-terminal dimerization domain and C-terminal DNA-binding domain, which are connected by a linker containing a beta strand. The N-terminal dimerization domain has an unusual mode of dimerization; helices alpha1 and alpha2 of both monomers are intertwined to form a four-helix bundle, generating a hydrophobic core that is further stabilized by antiparallel interactions between the two beta strands. Mutational analysis of key leucine residues in helix alpha1 demonstrated a role for this hydrophobic core in protein solubility and function. The C-terminal domain has a classical helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif that is located at opposite ends of the elongated dimer. Since the distance between the two helix-turn-helix motifs is too great to allow binding to two adjacent major grooves of the 16-bp Mor-binding site, we propose that conformational changes in the protein and DNA will be required for Mor to interact with the DNA. The highly conserved glycines flanking the beta strand may act as pivot points, facilitating the conformational changes of Mor, and the DNA may be bent.
Signalling activity of beta-catenin targeted to different subcellular compartments.	Beta-catenin plays a dual role as an adhesion molecule in adherens junctions at the plasma membrane and as a key intermediate in the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. The cytosolic soluble pool of beta-catenin, involved in the transmission of the Wnt signal, is normally subjected to rapid protein degradation. On activation of the Wnt cascade, beta-catenin becomes stabilized and then translocates into the nucleus where it co-activates transcription factors of the TCF (T-cell factor)/LEF (lymphoid enhancer factor) family. The expression of plasma membrane-targeted forms of beta-catenin has been shown to also activate TCF/LEF-dependent transcription and different mechanisms have been put forward. In the present study, we have undertaken a systematic analysis of the signalling capability of non-degradable forms of beta-catenin targeted to different cellular compartments. beta-Catenin targeted to the plasma membrane activated transcription to a greater extent compared with non-targeted beta-catenin, and led to a marked stabilization of cytosolic soluble beta-catenin. These effects were independent of the competition with endogenous beta-catenin for binding to E-cadherin at the plasma membrane, since targeting non-degradable beta-catenin to other cellular compartments, i.e. the outer mitochondrial membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, also resulted in the accumulation of cytosolic wild-type beta-catenin and activation of beta-catenin-dependent signalling. In contrast, nuclear-targeted beta-catenin was without significant effect on cytosolic wild-type beta-catenin and did not activate transcription. Our results suggest that cytosolic accumulation of beta-catenin is a prerequisite for the activation of TCF/LEF-dependent transcription in the nucleus.
Smad4 protein stability is regulated by ubiquitin ligase SCF beta-TrCP1.	Smad4 is a key intracellular mediator for the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of growth factors and is also an important tumor suppressor. The receptor-regulated Smad (R-Smad) proteins are regulated by ubiquitin-mediated degradation, yet the precise control of Smad4 protein stability is unclear. We have identified SCF(beta-TrCP1), a ubiquitin (E3) ligase, as a critical determinant for the protein degradation of Smad4 protein. F-box protein beta-TrCP1 in this E3 ligase interacts with Smad4 both in yeast and in mammalian cells, but has no interaction with Smad2 and has weak interaction with Smad3. The beta-TrCP1/Smad3 interaction was abolished by Smad4 gene silencing, indicating the interaction is indirect and is through Smad4. Ectopic expression of SCF complex containing beta-TrCP1 is sufficient to induce the ubiquitination and degradation of Smad4. Furthermore, small interfering RNA-triggered endogenous beta-TrCP1 suppression increases the expression of Smad4 protein. Consistent with these results, cells that overexpress the SCF complex display an inhibited TGF-beta-dependent transcriptional activity and an impaired cell cycle arrest function. Thus, SCF(beta-TrCP1) abrogates TGF-beta function in vivo by decreasing Smad4 stability.
Similar active sites in lysostaphins and D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases.	Specific peptidases exist for nearly every amide linkage in peptidoglycan. In several cases, families of peptidoglycan hydrolases with different specificities turned out to be related. Here we show that lysostaphin-type peptidases and D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases have similar active sites and share a core folding motif in otherwise highly divergent folds. The central Zn(2+) is tetrahedrally coordinated by two histidines, an aspartate, and a water molecule. The Zn(2+) chelating residues occur in the order histidine, aspartate, histidine in all sequences and contact the metal via the Nepsilon, the Odelta, and the Ndelta, respectively. The identity of the other active-site residues varies, but in all enzymes of known structure except for VanX, a conserved histidine is present two residues upstream of the second histidine ligand to the Zn(2+). As the same arrangement of active-site residues is also found in the N-terminal, cryptic peptidase domain of sonic hedgehog, we propose that this arrangement of active-site residues be called the "LAS" arrangement, because it is present in lysostaphin-type enzymes, D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases, and in the cryptic peptidase in the N-domain of sonic hedgehog.
The RING domain of Siaz, the zebrafish homologue of Drosophila seven in absentia, is essential for cellular growth arrest.	Siah is a mammalian homologue of Drosophila seven in absentia (sina) that is required for R7 photoreceptor development. Both the SINA and Siah family interact with ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes via an N-terminal RING domain and the C-terminal domain of SINA/ Siahs interacts with proteins targeted for degradation. Siah induces cell growth arrest by promoting beta-catenin degradation in a phosphorylation-independent manner as a result of indirect binding to beta-catenin. We previously cloned a zebrafish homologue (Siaz) of Siah. Siaz shares high sequence homology with vertebrate Siah-2. We have now examined the role of Siaz in growth regulation using the trypan blue exclusion assay and flow cytometry and found that Siaz induces cellular growth arrest by inhibiting the G2/M transition. The C-terminal domain of Siaz that interacts with target proteins is not required for growth inhibition. We conclude that the N-terminal RING and central domain of Siaz are sufficient to block the G2/M phase transition.
Acetylation of beta-catenin by p300 regulates beta-catenin-Tcf4 interaction.	Lysine acetylation modulates the activities of nonhistone regulatory proteins and plays a critical role in the regulation of cellular gene transcription. In this study, we showed that the transcriptional coactivator p300 acetylated beta-catenin at lysine 345, located in arm repeat 6, in vitro and in vivo. Acetylation of this residue increased the affinity of beta-catenin for Tcf4, and the cellular Tcf4-bound pool of beta-catenin was significantly enriched in acetylated form. We demonstrated that the acetyltransferase activity of p300 was required for efficient activation of transcription mediated by beta-catenin/Tcf4 and that the cooperation between p300 and beta-catenin was severely reduced by the K345R mutation, implying that acetylation of beta-catenin plays a part in the coactivation of beta-catenin by p300. Interestingly, acetylation of beta-catenin had opposite, negative effects on the binding of beta-catenin to the androgen receptor. Our data suggest that acetylation of beta-catenin in the arm 6 domain regulates beta-catenin transcriptional activity by differentially modulating its affinity for Tcf4 and the androgen receptor. Thus, our results describe a new mechanism by which p300 might regulate beta-catenin transcriptional activity.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 regulates the interaction of Axin with beta-catenin.	Axin, a negative regulator of Wnt, forms a complex with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta, beta-catenin, and adenomatous polyposis coli and promotes GSK3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin, thereby stimulating degradation of the beta-catenin. An essential step in that process is the phosphorylation of Axin. Examination of Axin's amino acid sequence revealed it to contain six arginine-X-leucine (RXL) sequences, the cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) binding motif, and 10 CDK2 consensus phosphorylation sequences. We also found that cyclin A/CDK2 phosphorylates Axin, thereby enhancing its association with beta-catenin. This suggests that cyclin A/CDK2 is a negative regulator of beta-catenin-mediated signal transduction, which exerts its effects through phosphorylation of Axin.
Molecular structure of the rat vitamin D receptor ligand binding domain complexed with 2-carbon-substituted vitamin D3 hormone analogues and a LXXLL-containing coactivator peptide.	We have determined the crystal structures of the ligand binding domain (LBD) of the rat vitamin D receptor in ternary complexes with a synthetic LXXLL-containing peptide and the following four ligands: 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3); 2-methylene-19-nor-(20S)-1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (2MD); 1alpha-hydroxy-2-methylene-19-nor-(20S)-bishomopregnacalciferol (2MbisP), and 2alpha-methyl-19-nor-1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (2AM20R). The conformation of the LBD is identical in each complex. Binding of the 2-carbon-modified analogues does not change the positions of the amino acids in the ligand binding site and has no effect on the interactions in the coactivator binding pocket. The CD ring of the superpotent analogue, 2MD, is tilted within the binding site relative to the other ligands in this study and to (20S)-1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [Tocchini-Valentini et al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98, 5491-5496]. The aliphatic side chain of 2MD follows a different path within the binding site; nevertheless, the 25-hydroxyl group at the end of the chain occupies the same position as that of the natural ligand, and the hydrogen bonds with histidines 301 and 393 are maintained. 2MbisP binds to the receptor despite the absence of the 25-hydroxyl group. A water molecule is observed between His 301 and His 393 in this structure, and it preserves the orientation of the histidines in the binding site. Although the alpha-chair conformer is highly favored in solution for the A ring of 2AM20R, the crystal structures demonstrate that this ring assumes the beta-chair conformation in all cases, and the 1alpha-hydroxyl group is equatorial. The peptide folds as a helix and is anchored through hydrogen bonds to a surface groove formed by helices 3, 4, and 12. Electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions between the peptide and the LBD stabilize the active receptor conformation. This stablization appears necessary for crystal growth.
The nuclear protein p34SEI-1 regulates the kinase activity of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 in a concentration-dependent manner.	Previous studies have shown that p34(SEI-1), also known as TRIP-Br1, is involved in cell cycle regulations by interacting with a number of important proteins including CDK4. However, the detailed mechanism and structural basis of the interaction remains to be determined. We report the use of in vitro studies to address these problems. First, it was shown that p34(SEI-1) binds to CDK4 directly, and the binding does not compete directly with p16. In the presence of p16, a quaternary complex is formed between p34(SEI-1), CDK4, cyclin D2, and p16. Second, it was found that p34(SEI-1) activates the kinase activity of CDK4 at lower concentrations (reaching the maximum at 500 nM) but inhibits the same activity at higher concentrations, implying that p34(SEI-1)-mediated CDK4 activation is dose-dependent. Again, the effects of p34(SEI-1) and p16 are independent of each other. Third, it was shown that p34(SEI-1) possesses a LexA-mediated transactivation activity. Finally, a set of truncation mutants were used to dissect the structural elements responsible for the different functions of p34(SEI-1). The results indicate that the fragment 30-160 can bind, activate, and inhibit CDK4; the fragment 30-132 can bind and activate but does not inhibit CDK4, while the fragment 30-88 cannot bind, activate, or inhibit but retains the LexA-mediated transactivation activity.
CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha binds to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) ZTA protein through oligomeric interactions and contributes to cooperative transcriptional activation of the ZTA promoter through direct binding to the ZII and ZIIIB motifs during induction of the EBV lytic cycle.	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded ZTA protein interacts strongly with and stabilizes the cellular CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha), leading to the induction of p21-mediated G(1) cell cycle arrest. Despite the strong interaction between these two basic leucine zipper (bZIP) family proteins, the ZTA and C/EBPalpha subunits do not heterodimerize, as indicated by an in vitro cross-linking assay with in vitro-cotranslated (35)S-labeled C/EBPalpha and (35)S-labeled ZTA protein. Instead, they evidently form a higher-order oligomeric complex that competes with C/EBPalpha binding but not with ZTA binding in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs). Glutathione S-transferase affinity assays with mutant ZTA proteins revealed that the basic DNA binding domain and the key leucine zipper residues required for homodimerization are all required for the interaction with C/EBPalpha. ZTA is known to bind to two ZRE sites within the ZTA promoter and to positively autoregulate its own expression in transient cotransfection assays, but there is conflicting evidence about whether it does so in vivo. Examination of the proximal ZTA upstream promoter region by in vitro EMSA analysis revealed two high-affinity C/EBP binding sites (C-2 and C-3), which overlap the ZII and ZIIIB motifs, implicated as playing a key role in lytic cycle induction. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay confirmed the in vivo binding of both endogenous C/EBPalpha and ZTA protein to the ZTA promoter after lytic cycle induction but not during the latent state in EBV-infected Akata cells. Reporter assays revealed that cotransfected C/EBPalpha activated the ZTA promoter even more effectively than cotransfected ZTA. However, synergistic activation of the ZTA promoter was not observed when ZTA and C/EBPalpha were cotransfected together in either HeLa or DG75 cells. Mutagenesis of either the ZII or the ZIIIB sites in the ZTA promoter strongly reduced C/EBPalpha transactivation, suggesting that these sites act cooperatively. Furthermore, the introduction of exogenous C/EBPalpha into EBV-infected HeLa-BX1 cells induced endogenous ZTA mRNA and protein expression, as demonstrated by both reverse transcription-PCR and immunoblotting assays. Finally, double-label immunofluorescence assays suggested that EAD protein expression was activated even better than ZTA expression in latently infected C/EBPalpha-transfected Akata cells, perhaps because of the presence of a strong B-cell-specific repressed chromatin conformation on the ZTA promoter itself during EBV latency.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae translational activator Cbs2p is associated with mitochondrial ribosomes.	A characteristic feature of the mitochondrial expression system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the requirement for gene-specific translational activator proteins. Translation of mitochondrial apocytochrome b mRNA requires the nucleus-encoded proteins Cbs1p and Cbs2p. These proteins are thought to tether cytochrome b mRNA to the mitochondrial inner membrane via binding to the 5' untranslated mRNA leader. Here, we demonstrate by the use of affinity chromatography and coimmunoprecipitation that Cbs2p interacts with the mitoribosomes. We further provide evidence that the C-terminus of Cbs2p is important for ribosome association, while the N-terminal portion is essential for the formation of homomeric structures.
Phosphorylation of Epstein-Barr virus ZEBRA protein at its casein kinase 2 sites mediates its ability to repress activation of a viral lytic cycle late gene by Rta.	ZEBRA, a member of the bZIP family, serves as a master switch between latent and lytic cycle Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) gene expression. ZEBRA influences the activity of another viral transactivator, Rta, in a gene-specific manner. Some early lytic cycle genes, such as BMRF1, are activated in synergy by ZEBRA and Rta. However, ZEBRA suppresses Rta's ability to activate a late gene, BLRF2. Here we show that this repressive activity is dependent on the phosphorylation state of ZEBRA. We find that two residues of ZEBRA, S167 and S173, that are phosphorylated by casein kinase 2 (CK2) in vitro are also phosphorylated in vivo. Inhibition of ZEBRA phosphorylation at the CK2 substrate motif, either by serine-to-alanine substitutions or by use of a specific inhibitor of CK2, abolished ZEBRA's capacity to repress Rta activation of the BLRF2 gene, but did not alter its ability to initiate the lytic cycle or to synergize with Rta in activation of the BMRF1 early-lytic-cycle gene. These studies illustrate how the phosphorylation state of a transcriptional activator can modulate its behavior as an activator or repressor of gene expression. Phosphorylation of ZEBRA at its CK2 sites is likely to play an essential role in proper temporal control of the EBV lytic life cycle.
STRA13 interacts with STAT3 and modulates transcription of STAT3-dependent targets.	STRA13 is a pVHL-dependent bHLH transcription factor up-regulated on the mRNA level in multiple cancer cell lines and implicated recently in the regulation of immune cell homeostasis and autoimmunity. In searching for STRA13-interacting proteins with oncogenic potential by the yeast two-hybrid screening, we identified STAT3 beta as a STRA13-binding partner. We showed that STRA13 binds predominantly to phosphorylated (active) STAT3 alpha and beta isoforms via its HLH and C-terminal regions. We also found that STRA13 was able to activate transcription from STAT-dependent cis-elements. Expression of endogenous STRA13 was shown to be cytokine-inducible, consistent with STRA13 involvement in STAT-dependent transcription regulation. We demonstrated that the STAT3-regulated promoter of the pro-apoptotic Fas gene was activated upon STRA13 over-expression and that co-expression of STRA13 with STAT3 beta or STAT3 alpha modulated the transcriptional outcome. Forced expression of STRA13 induced apoptosis, in agreement with the STRA13 activation effect on the Fas promoter. Simultaneous expression of STRA13 and STAT3 beta resulted in alleviation of the STRA13 pro-apoptotic effect. Thus, for the first time, we identify STRA13 as a STAT3 partner and provide a consistent line of evidence for STRA13 involvement into regulation of apoptosis via the STAT pathways.
Role of Akt/protein kinase B in the activity of transcriptional coactivator p300.	Akt/protein kinase B is a downstream target of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway and plays a critical role in promotion of cell survival. The function of transcriptional coactivator p300 is required by many transcription factors to either activate or repress gene expression. Here, we show that induction of PI3K enhances the metabolic stability of endogenous p300 protein. On the other hand, repression of PI3K by LY294002 induces p300 degradation through the 26S proteasome pathway and impedes the transcriptional activity of the coactivator. In addition, Akt interacts with the coactivator and the activity of Akt is required to maintain the steady-state level of p300. Our study provides a new insight into the molecular mechanisms by which the critical concentration of p300 protein is regulated and suggests a role for Akt in control of various cellular activities through the transcriptional coactivator p300.
Synaptic scaffolding molecule interacts with axin.	Synaptic scaffolding molecule (S-SCAM) is a synaptic protein that consists of PDZ domains, a guanylate kinase domain, and WW domains. It interacts with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits, neuroligin, and beta-catenin. Here, we identified Axin as a novel binding partner of S-SCAM. Axin was co-immunoprecipitated with S-SCAM from rat brain, detected in the post-synaptic density fraction in rat brain subcellular fractionation, and partially co-localized with S-SCAM in neurons. The guanylate kinase domain of S-SCAM directly bound to the GSK3beta-binding region of Axin. S-SCAM formed a complex with beta-catenin and Axin, but competed with GSK3beta for Axin-binding. Thereby, S-SCAM inhibited the Axin-mediated phosphorylation of beta-catenin by GSK3beta.
Cyclin-dependent kinases regulate the antiproliferative function of Smads.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) potently inhibits cell cycle progression at the G1 phase. Smad3 has a key function in mediating the TGF-beta growth-inhibitory response. Here we show that Smad3 is a major physiological substrate of the G1 cyclin-dependent kinases CDK4 and CDK2. Except for the retinoblastoma protein family, Smad3 is the only CDK4 substrate demonstrated so far. We have mapped CDK4 and CDK2 phosphorylation sites to Thr 8, Thr 178 and Ser 212 in Smad3. Mutation of the CDK phosphorylation sites increases Smad3 transcriptional activity, leading to higher expression of the CDK inhibitor p15. Mutation of the CDK phosphorylation sites of Smad3 also increases its ability to downregulate the expression of c-myc. Using Smad3(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts and other epithelial cell lines, we further show that Smad3 inhibits cell cycle progression from G1 to S phase and that mutation of the CDK phosphorylation sites in Smad3 increases this ability. Taken together, these findings indicate that CDK phosphorylation of Smad3 inhibits its transcriptional activity and antiproliferative function. Because cancer cells often contain high levels of CDK activity, diminishing Smad3 activity by CDK phosphorylation may contribute to tumorigenesis and TGF-beta resistance in cancers.
Molecular cloning and characterization of ZFF29: a protein containing a unique Cys2His2 zinc-finger motif.	We have cloned a gene, ZFF29 (zinc-finger protein of human fetal liver erythroid cells 29), from human fetal liver erythroid cells. Two types of mature mRNA were identified and designated ZFF29a and ZFF29b. In human genome the ZFF29 gene is on chromosome 9q, and the two forms are splice variants. There is a unique transcription start site, which predicts major mRNAs composed of 2485 bases for ZFF29a and 1801 bases for ZFF29b. The anticipated mRNAs were demonstrated in K562 cells, but not in any adult human tissues examined by Northern blotting. In the mouse, reverse transcription-PCR revealed that the ZFF29 mRNA is present in adult bone marrow and ovary at a higher level than in any other tissues examined. These findings suggest that ZFF29 proteins are expressed in embryonic/fetal erythroid tissues. The deduced polypeptide chains of ZFF29a and ZFF29b are composed of 306 and 350 amino acids respectively. A unique zinc-finger motif composed of two contiguous Cys(2)His(2)-type fingers is common to both forms of ZFF29. They are nuclear proteins and ZFF29b, but not ZFF29a, is an activator of erythroid gene promoters.
Nrf3 negatively regulates antioxidant-response element-mediated expression and antioxidant induction of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase1 gene.	Antioxidant-response element (ARE) and nuclear factor Nrf2-mediated expression and coordinated induction of genes encoding chemopreventive proteins, including NQO1, are critical mechanisms in chemoprotection. Recently, Nrf3, a new member of the Nrf family with substantial homology to Nrf2, was identified and cloned. In this report, we have investigated the role of Nrf3 in ARE-mediated gene expression and induction of NQO1 in response to antioxidants. Overexpression of Nrf3 in Hep-G2 cells led to a concentration-dependent decrease in transfected and endogenous NQO1 gene expression and induction in response to antioxidant tert-butylhydroquinone (t-BHQ). Deletion mutation analysis revealed that Nrf3 repression of NQO1 gene expression required heterodimerization and DNA binding domains but not transcriptional activation domain of Nrf3. Bandshift and supershift assays with in vitro transcribed and translated proteins and nuclear extracts from Hep-G2 cells treated with Me2SO and t-BHQ and immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that Nrf3 associates with small Maf proteins to bind to the ARE. RNA interference specific to Nrf3 reduced intracellular Nrf3 leading to increased expression and induction of transfected and endogenous NQO1 gene expression in response to t-BHQ. These results combined suggest that Nrf3 is a negative regulator of ARE-mediated gene expression.
Mutations in the DNA-binding domain of the transcription factor Bright act as dominant negative proteins and interfere with immunoglobulin transactivation.	Bright, for B cell regulator of immunoglobulin heavy chain transcription, binds A+T-rich sequences in the intronic enhancer regions of the murine heavy chain locus and 5'-flanking sequences of some variable heavy chain promoters. Most resting B cells do not express Bright; however, it is induced after stimulation with antigen or polyclonal mitogens. Bright activation results in up-regulation of mu transcription; however, it is not clear whether Bright function is critical for normal B cell development. To begin to address Bright function during B cell development, seven mutated forms of Bright were produced. Five of the seven mutants revealed little or no DNA binding activity. Furthermore, because Bright binds DNA as a dimer, two of the mutants formed complexes with wild type Bright and acted in a dominant negative fashion. Dominant negative Bright prevented the up-regulation of mu transcription in transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with wild type Bright. These data identify regions within Bright that are required for the DNA binding activity of Bright and for its function as a transcription factor.
Enhanced activation of tax-dependent transcription of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) long terminal repeat by TORC3.	Tax, a protein encoded by the env-pX gene of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I), interacts with various host cell transcription factors. Tax activates transcription from the long terminal repeat (LTR) of HTLV-I through association with cyclic AMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB). Here, we present evidence that transducer of regulated cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein 3 (TORC3), a co-activator of CREB, is involved in Tax-induced transcriptional activation from the HTLV-I LTR. By using a luciferase assay system, we show that TORC3 alone can enhance transcription from the HTLV-I LTR, as well as from a cellular cyclic AMP-response element (CRE). Interestingly, we find that co-expression of TORC3 and Tax dramatically increased transcriptional activation at the HTLV-I LTR. We also show by glutathione S-transferase pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation experiments that TORC3 interacts with Tax. Using deletion mutant analysis, we identify the Tax interaction domain of TORC3 as a region spanning from amino acid 1 to 103, which contains a coiled-coil domain. These results provide important clues toward understanding the molecular mechanism of Tax-dependent transcriptional activation of the HTLV-I LTR.
A single PXY motif located within the carboxyl terminus of Spt23p and Mga2p mediates a physical and functional interaction with ubiquitin ligase Rsp5p.	Proteasome-dependent processing of the endoplasmic reticulum localized transcription factor Spt23p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae generates its transcriptionally competent form and requires the WW domain containing Rsp5p ubiquitin ligase. Although previous studies documented an Rsp5p-Spt23p association in cells, very little is known about the nature of this interaction. We report here the identification of an imperfect type I WW domain-binding site (LPKY) within the carboxyl-terminal region of Spt23p that is required for Rsp5p binding in vitro and in vivo. Deletion of this motif abrogates Rsp5p-induced ubiquitination of Spt23p in vitro and reduces ubiquitination of the Spt23p precursor in yeast. In addition, the Spt23pDeltaLPKY mutant is inefficiently processed and is defective at up-regulating target gene (OLE1) expression in cells. Deletion of the corresponding LPKY site within Mga2p, an Spt23p homologue, also abrogates Rsp5p binding and Rsp5p-dependent ubiquitination in vitro as well as Rsp5p binding and Mga2p polyubiquitination in cells. However, the Mga2pDeltaLPKY mutant undergoes efficient proteasome-dependent processing. These experiments indicate that the LPKY motif of Spt23p is required for Rsp5p binding, Rsp5-induced ubiquitination, proteasome-dependent processing, and its OLE1 inducing function. They also suggest that the LPKY motif of Mga2p is required for Rsp5p binding and ubiquitination, and Rsp5p regulates Mga2p function by a mechanism that is independent of providing the partial degradation signal.
Epigenetic inactivation of class II transactivator (CIITA) is associated with the absence of interferon-gamma-induced HLA-DR expression in colorectal and gastric cancer cells.	Tightly regulated at the level of transcription, expression of MHC class II molecules varies significantly among gastrointestinal cancers. High levels of MHC class II expression are often associated with a better prognosis, which is indicative of the involvement of CD4+ lymphocytes in tumor suppression, but the molecular mechanism by which MHC class II expression is regulated remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the expression of one inducible MHC class II molecule, HLA-DR, and its coactivators in a panel of colorectal and gastric cancer cell lines. Interferon-gamma induced expression of HLA-DR in 14 of 20 cell lines tested; the remaining six cell lines did not express HLA-DR. Analysis of the expression of transcription factors and coactivators associated with HLA-DR revealed that the loss of CIITA expression was closely associated with the absence of HLA-DR induction. Moreover, DNA methylation of the 5' CpG island of CIITA-PIV was detected in all cancer cells that lacked CIITA. The methylation and resultant silencing of CIITA-PIV depended on the activities of two DNA methyltransferases, DNMT1 and DNMT3B, and their genetic inactivation restored CIITA-PIV expression. It thus appears that CIITA methylation is a key mechanism that enables some gastrointestinal cancer cells to escape immune surveillance.
How the Rgt1 transcription factor of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by glucose.	Rgt1 is a transcription factor that regulates expression of HXT genes encoding glucose transporters in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rgt1 represses HXT gene expression in the absence of glucose; high levels of glucose cause Rgt1 to activate expression of HXT1. We identified four functional domains of Rgt1. A domain required for transcriptional repression (amino acids 210-250) is required for interaction of Rgt1 with the Ssn6 corepressor. Another region of Rgt1 (320-380) is required for normal transcriptional activation, and sequences flanking this region (310-320 and 400-410) regulate this function. A central region (520-830) and a short sequence adjacent to the zinc cluster DNA-binding domain (80-90) inhibit transcriptional repression when glucose is present. We found that this middle region of Rgt1 physically interacts with the N-terminal portion of the protein that includes the DNA-binding domain. This interaction is inhibited by the Rgt1 regulator Mth1, which binds to Rgt1. Our results suggest that Mth1 promotes transcriptional repression by Rgt1 by binding to it and preventing the intramolecular interaction, probably by preventing phosphorylation of Rgt1, thereby enabling Rgt1 to bind to DNA. Glucose induces HXT1 gene expression by causing Mth1 degradation, allowing Rgt1 phosphorylation, and leading to the intramolecular interaction that inhibits DNA binding of Rgt1.
The stem cell pluripotency factor NANOG activates transcription with two unusually potent subdomains at its C terminus.	Embryonic stem cells are pluripotent progenitors for virtually all cell types in our body and thus possess unlimited therapeutic potentials for regenerative medicine. NANOG, an NK-2 type homeodomain gene, has been proposed to play a key role in maintaining stem cell pluripotency presumably by regulating the expression of genes critical to stem cell renewal and differentiation. Here, we provide the evidence that NANOG behaves as a transcription activator with two unusually strong activation domains embedded in its C terminus. First, we identified these two transactivators by employing the Gal4-DNA binding domain fusion and reporter system and named them WR and CD2. Whereas CD2 contains no obvious structural motif, the WR or Trp repeat contains 10 pentapeptide repeats starting with a Trp in each unit. Substitution of Trp with Ala in each repeat completely abolished its activity, whereas mutations at the conserved Ser, Gln, and Asn had relatively minor or no effect on WR activity. We then validated the activities of WR and CD2 in NANOG by constructing a reporter plasmid bearing five NANOG binding sites. Deletion of both WR and CD2 from NANOG completely eliminated its transactivation function. Paradoxically, whereas the removal of CD2 reduced NANOG activity by approximately 30-70%, the removal of WR not only did not diminish but actually enhanced its activity by approximately 50-100% depending on the cell lines analyzed. These data suggest that either WR or CD2 is sufficient for NANOG to function as a transactivator.
Characterization of the interaction between retinoic acid receptor/retinoid X receptor (RAR/RXR) heterodimers and transcriptional coactivators through structural and fluorescence anisotropy studies.	Retinoid receptors (RARs and RXRs) are ligand-activated transcription factors that regulate the transcription of target genes by recruiting coregulator complexes at cognate promoters. To understand the effects of heterodimerization and ligand binding on coactivator recruitment, we solved the crystal structure of the complex between the RARbeta/RXRalpha ligand-binding domain heterodimer, its 9-cis retinoic acid ligand, and an LXXLL-containing peptide (termed NR box 2) derived from the nuclear receptor interaction domain (NID) of the TRAP220 coactivator. In parallel, we measured the binding affinities of the isolated NR box 2 peptide or the full-length NID of the coactivator SRC-1 for retinoid receptors in the presence of various types of ligands. Our correlative analysis of three-dimensional structures and fluorescence data reveals that heterodimerization does not significantly alter the structure of individual subunits or their intrinsic capacity to interact with NR box 2. Similarly, we show that the ability of a protomer to recruit NR box 2 does not vary as a function of the ligand binding status of the partner receptor. In contrast, the strength of the overall association between the heterodimer and the full-length SRC-1 NID is dictated by the combinatorial action of RAR and RXR ligands, the simultaneous presence of the two receptor agonists being required for highest binding affinity. We identified an LXXLL peptide-driven mechanism by which the concerted reorientation of three phenylalanine side chains generates an "aromatic clamp" that locks the RXR activation helix H12 in the transcriptionally active conformation. Finally, we show how variations of helix H11-ligand interactions can alter the communication pathway linking helices H11, H12, and the connecting loop L11-12 to the coactivator-binding site. Together, our results reveal molecular and structural features that impact on the ligand-dependent interaction of the RAR/RXR heterodimer with nuclear receptor coactivators.
Overexpression of an N-terminally truncated isoform of the nuclear receptor coactivator amplified in breast cancer 1 leads to altered proliferation of mammary epithelial cells in transgenic mice.	Amplified in breast cancer 1 (AIB1, also known as ACTR, SRC-3, RAC-3, TRAM-1, p/CIP) is a member of the p160 nuclear receptor coactivator family involved in transcriptional regulation of genes activated through steroid receptors, such as estrogen receptor alpha (ER(alpha)). The AIB1 gene and a more active N-terminally deleted isoform (AIB1-Delta3) are overexpressed in breast cancer. To determine the role of AIB1-Delta3 in breast cancer pathogenesis, we generated transgenic mice with human cytomegalovirus immediate early gene 1 (hCMVIE1) promoter-driven over-expression of human AIB1/ACTR-Delta3 (CMVAIB1/ACTR-Delta3 mice). AIB1/ACTR-Delta3 transgene mRNA expression was confirmed in CMV-AIB1/ACTR-Delta3 mammary glands by in situ hybridization. These mice demonstrated significantly increased mammary epithelial cell proliferation (P < 0.003), cyclin D1 expression (P = 0.002), IGF-I receptor protein expression (P = 0.026), mammary gland mass (P < 0.05), and altered expression of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein isoforms (P = 0.029). At 13 months of age, mammary ductal ectasia was found in CMV-AIB1/ACTR-Delta3 mice, but secondary and tertiary branching patterns were normal. There were no changes in the expression patterns of either ER(alpha) or Stat5a, a downstream mediator of prolactin signaling. Serum IGF-I levels were not altered in the transgenic mice. These data indicate that overexpression of the AIB1/ACTR-Delta3 isoform resulted in altered mammary epithelial cell growth. The observed changes in cell proliferation and gene expression are consistent with alterations in growth factor signaling that are thought to contribute to either initiation or progression of breast cancer. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the N-terminally deleted isoform of AIB1 can play a role in breast cancer development and/or progression.
STATs as critical mediators of signal transduction and transcription: lessons learned from STAT5.	Signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stats) comprise a family of seven transcription factors that are activated by a variety of cytokines, hormones and growth factors. Stats are activated through tyrosine phosphorylation, mainly by Jak kinases, that lead to their dimerization, nuclear translocation and regulation of target gene expression. Stat5 was originally identified as a transcription factor that regulates the beta-casein gene in response to prolactin (PRL), but Stat5 is activated also by several other cytokines and growth factors. The molecular mechanisms that underlie Stat5-mediated transcription involve interactions and cooperation with sequence specific transcription factors and transcriptional coregulators. Our studies identified p100 protein as a coactivator for Stat5, and suggest the existence of a positive regulatory loop in PRL-induced transcription, where PRL stabilizes p100 protein, which in turn can cooperate with Stat5 in transcriptional activation. Suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins are important negative regulators of Stats. A target gene for Stat5, the serine/threonine kinase Pim-1, was found to cooperate with SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 to inhibit Stat5 activity suggesting that Pim-1 together with SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 are components of a negative feedback mechanism that allows Stat5 to regulate its own activation.
Novel role for a sterol response element binding protein in directing spermatogenic cell-specific gene expression.	Sperm are highly specialized cells, and their formation requires the synthesis of a large number of unique mRNAs. However, little is known about the transcriptional mechanisms that direct male germ cell differentiation. Sterol response element binding protein 2gc (SREBP2gc) is a spermatogenic cell-enriched isoform of the ubiquitous transcription factor SREBP2, which in somatic cells is required for homeostatic regulation of cholesterol. SREBP2gc is selectively enriched in spermatocytes and spermatids, and, due to its novel structure, its synthesis is not subject to cholesterol feedback control. This suggested that SREBP2gc has unique cell- and stage-specific functions during spermatogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that this factor activates the promoter for the spermatogenesis-related gene proacrosin in a cell-specific manner. Multiple SREBP2gc response elements were identified within the 5'-flanking and proximal promoter regions of the proacrosin promoter. Mutating these elements greatly diminished in vivo expression of this promoter in spermatogenic cells of transgenic mice. These studies define a totally new function for an SREBP as a transactivator of male germ cell-specific gene expression. We propose that SREBP2gc is part of a cadre of spermatogenic cell-enriched isoforms of ubiquitously expressed transcriptional coregulators that were specifically adapted in concert to direct differentiation of the male germ cell lineage.
Interaction and functional cooperation between the LIM protein FHL2, CBP/p300, and beta-catenin.	Transcriptional activation of gene expression by Wnt signaling is driven by the association of beta-catenin with TCF/LEF factors and the recruitment of transcriptional coactivators. It has been shown that the LIM protein FHL2 and the acetyltransferase CBP/p300 individually stimulate beta-catenin transactivating activity and that beta-catenin is acetylated by p300. Here, we report that FHL2 and CBP/p300 synergistically enhanced beta-catenin/TCF-mediated transcription from Wnt-responsive promoters and that the acetyltransferase activity of CBP/p300 was involved in the cooperation. CBP/p300 interacted directly with FHL2, predominantly through the CH3 domain but not the histone acetyltransferase domain, and different regions of CBP/p300 were involved in FHL2 and beta-catenin binding. We provided evidence for the formation of a ternary complex by FHL2, CBP/p300, and beta-catenin and for colocalization of the three proteins in the nucleus. In murine FHL2(-/-) embryo fibroblasts, the transactivation activity of beta-catenin/TCF was markedly reduced, and this defect could be restored by exogenous expression of FHL2. However, CBP/p300 were still able to coactivate the beta-catenin/TCF complex in FHL2(-/-) cells, suggesting that FHL2 is dispensable for the coactivator function of CBP/p300 on beta-catenin. Furthermore, we found that FHL2 significantly increased acetylation of beta-catenin by p300 in vivo. Finally, we showed that FHL2, CBP/p300, and beta-catenin could synergistically activate androgen receptor-mediated transcription, indicating that the synergistic coactivator function is not restricted to TCF/LEF.
Keap1 is a redox-regulated substrate adaptor protein for a Cul3-dependent ubiquitin ligase complex.	The bZIP transcription factor Nrf2 controls a genetic program that protects cells from oxidative damage and maintains cellular redox homeostasis. Keap1, a BTB-Kelch protein, is the major upstream regulator of Nrf2 and controls both the subcellular localization and steady-state levels of Nrf2. In this report, we demonstrate that Keap1 functions as a substrate adaptor protein for a Cul3-dependent E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Keap1 assembles into a functional E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with Cul3 and Rbx1 that targets multiple lysine residues located in the N-terminal Neh2 domain of Nrf2 for ubiquitin conjugation both in vivo and in vitro. Keap1-dependent ubiquitination of Nrf2 is inhibited following exposure of cells to quinone-induced oxidative stress and sulforaphane, a cancer-preventive isothiocyanate. A mutant Keap1 protein containing a single cysteine-to-serine substitution at residue 151 within the BTB domain of Keap1 is markedly resistant to inhibition by either quinone-induced oxidative stress or sulforaphane. Inhibition of Keap1-dependent ubiquitination of Nrf2 correlates with decreased association of Keap1 with Cul3. Neither quinone-induced oxidative stress nor sulforaphane disrupts association between Keap1 and Nrf2. Our results suggest that the ability of Keap1 to assemble into a functional E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is the critical determinant that controls steady-state levels of Nrf2 in response to cancer-preventive compounds and oxidative stress.
Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling activates Ets-1 and Ets-2 by CBP/p300 recruitment.	Cell signaling affects gene expression by regulating the activity of transcription factors. Here, we report that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation of Ets-1 and Ets-2, at a conserved site N terminal to their Pointed (PNT) domains, resulted in enhanced transactivation by preferential recruitment of the coactivators CREB binding protein (CBP) and p300. We discovered this phosphorylation-augmented interaction in an unbiased affinity chromatography screen of HeLa nuclear extracts by using either mock-treated or ERK2-phosphorylated ETS proteins as ligands. Binding between purified proteins demonstrated a direct interaction. Both the phosphoacceptor site, which lies in an unstructured region, and the PNT domain were required for the interaction. Minimal regions that were competent for induced CBP/p300 binding in vitro also supported MAPK-enhanced transcription in vivo. CBP coexpression potentiated MEK1-stimulated Ets-2 transactivation of promoters with Ras-responsive elements. Furthermore, CBP and Ets-2 interacted in a phosphorylation-enhanced manner in vivo. This study describes a distinctive interface for a transcription factor-coactivator complex and demonstrates a functional role for inducible CBP/p300 binding. In addition, our findings decipher the mechanistic link between Ras/MAPK signaling and two specific transcription factors that are relevant to both normal development and tumorigenesis.
Systematic peptide array-based delineation of the differential beta-catenin interaction with Tcf4, E-cadherin, and adenomatous polyposis coli.	Nuclear accumulation of the complex between beta-catenin and proteins of the T-cell factor (Tcf) family is a hallmark of many cancers. Targeting this interaction for drug development is complicated by the fact that E-cadherin and adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) bind to overlapping sites on beta-catenin. Inhibiting their interactions might actually promote tumor growth. To identify selective beta-catenin binding hot spots of Tcf4, E-cadherin, and APC, array technology with peptides of up to 53 amino acids length was used. Interactions were monitored by a quantitative fluorescent readout, which was shown to represent a monitor of true equilibrium binding constants. We identified minimal binding motifs in the beta-catenin ligands and showed that most of the 15-mer and 20-mer repeats of APC did not interact, at least when non-phosphorylated, and defined a consensus binding motif also present in APC. We confirmed previously found hot spots and identified new ones. The method allowed us to locate a hydrophobic pocket that was relevant for the Tcf, but not the E-cadherin interaction, and would thus constitute an ideal drug target site.
Physical and functional interactions between STAP-2/BKS and STAT5.	Signal-transducing adaptor protein family of proteins (STAPs), which currently contains two members, are proposed to be adaptor molecules because of their pleckstrin homology (PH) and Src-homology 2 (SH2)-like domains. STAP-1 has been shown to interact with STAT5 and the tyrosine kinase Tec. With regard to STAP-2/BKS functions, immunoprecipitation experiments and intracellular stainings revealed STAP-2/BKS binds STAT5 in several types of cells. Mutational studies revealed that the PH- and SH2-like domains of STAP-2/BKS interacted with the C-terminal region of STAT5. STAP-2/BKS and STAT5 were found to constitutively co-localize in the cytoplasm of resting cells, but STAP-2/BKS was found to dissociate upon STAT5 phosphorylation, suggesting a role in regulating signaling of STAT5. The physiological role of these interactions is not fully understood, but in studies of overexpression of STAP-2/BKS, cytokine-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and transcriptional activation of STAT5 was diminished. In addition, thymocytes from STAP-2/BKS-deficient mice showed the enhanced interleukin-2-dependent cell growth. Taken together, STAP-2/BKS is an additional modulator of STAT5-mediated signaling.
The protein stability and transcriptional activity of p63alpha are regulated by SUMO-1 conjugation.	Post-translational modification of proteins by the ubiquitin-like molecule SUMO-1 regulates their stability and activity with crucial implications for many cellular processes. Here we show that p63alpha, but not p63beta and gamma, is sumoylated in vitro and in vivo at a single lysine residue, K637, in the post-SAM domain. SUMO-1 attachment targets DeltaNp63alpha for proteasome mediated degradation while it does not influence p63alpha intracellular localization, as wild-type protein and a mutant carring the K637 mutated into arginine (K637R), have the same nuclear localization. Four natural p63 mutations, falling within the SAM and post-SAM domain of p63alpha, were found to be altered in their sumoylation capacity. The transcriptional activities of the natural mutants and of K637R were strongly increased compared to that of wild type p63, suggesting that sumoylation has a negative effect on p63 driven transcription. The findings that DeltaNp63alpha protein levels are regulated by SUMO-1 and that this regulation is altered in natural p63 mutants, suggest that SUMO conjugation to p63 plays a critical role in regulating the biological activity of p63.
Analysis of the genetic variability of virulence-related loci in epidemic clones of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolates have previously been classified into major epidemic clonal types by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis in combination with multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec typing. We aimed to investigate whether genetic variability in potentially polymorphic domains of virulence-related factors could provide another level of differentiation in a diverse collection of epidemic MRSA clones. The target regions of strains representative of epidemic clones and genetically related methicillin-susceptible S. aureus isolates from the 1960s that were sequenced included the R domains of clfA and clfB; the D, W, and M regions of fnbA and fnbB; and three regions in the agr operon. Sequence variation ranged from very conserved regions, such as those for RNAIII and the agr interpromoter region, to the highly polymorphic R regions of the clf genes. The sequences of the clf R domains could be grouped into six major sequence types on the basis of the sequences in their 3' regions. Six sequence types were also observed for the fnb sequences at the amino acid level. From an evolutionary point of view, it was interesting that a small DNA stretch at the 3' clf R-domain sequence and the fnb sequences agreed with the results of MLST for this set of strains. In particular, clfB R-domain sequences, which had a high discriminatory capacity and with which the types distinguished were congruent with those obtained by other molecular typing methods, have potential for use for the typing of S. aureus. Clone- and strain-specific sequence motifs in the clf and fnb genes may represent useful additions to a typing methodology with a DNA array.
DRIP150 coactivation of estrogen receptor alpha in ZR-75 breast cancer cells is independent of LXXLL motifs.	Vitamin D receptor-interacting protein 150 (DRIP150) has been identified as part of mediator-like complexes that enhance transcriptional activation of the estrogen receptor (ER) and other nuclear receptors (NRs). DRIP150 coactivates ligand-dependent ERalpha-mediated transactivation in ZR-75 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells transfected with a (luciferase) reporter construct (pERE3) regulated by three tandem estrogen-responsive elements. Coactivation of ERalpha by DRIP150 in ZR-75 cells was activation function 2-dependent and required an intact helix 12 that typically interacts with LXXLL motifs (NR box) in p160 steroid receptor coactivators. DRIP150 contains C- and N-terminal NR boxes (amino acids 1182-1186 and 69-73, respectively), and deletion analysis of DRIP150 showed that regions containing these sequences were not necessary for coactivation of ERalpha. Analysis of multiple DRIP150 deletion mutants identified a 23-amino-acid sequence (789-811) required for coactivation activity. Analysis of the protein crystal structure data base identified two regions at amino acids 789-794 and 795-804, which resembled alpha-helical motifs in Lanuginosa lipase/histamine N-methyltransferase and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1, respectively. By using a squelching assay and specific amino acid point mutations within each alpha-helix, the NIFSEVRVYN (795-804) region was identified as the critical sequence required for the activity of DRIP150. These results demonstrate that coactivation of ERalpha by DRIP150 in ZR-75 cells is NR box-independent and requires a novel sequence with putative alpha-helical structure.
Smad3 mediates TGF-beta1 induction of VEGF production in lung fibroblasts.	Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a key factor in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a key angiogenic factor, and vascular change is one of the features of airway remodeling. We examined the effect of TGF-beta1 on VEGF production by fibroblasts from mice lacking expression of Smad2 or Smad3 as well as human lung fibroblasts treated with or without Smad2 or Smad3 siRNA. TGF-beta1 stimulated VEGF production by fibroblasts from Smad2 deficient animals and wildtype animals. In contrast, TGF-beta1 did not affect VEGF production by fibroblasts from Samd3 deficient mice. Similarly, TGF-beta1 failed to stimulate VEGF production by HFL-1 cells treated with Samd3 siRNA but significantly increased VEGF production by the cells treated with Smad2 siRNA. These result suggest that TGF-beta1 stimulation of VEGF production by fibroblasts is regulated by Smad3 but not by Smad2 signaling.
Solution structure of a peptide derived from the oncogenic protein beta-Catenin in its phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated states.	Beta-Catenin plays an essential role in the Wingless/Wnt signaling cascade. Phosphorylation of beta-Catenin in its N-terminal region by the kinase GSK-3beta is required for the interaction with the SCF-beta-TrCP protein complex that targets beta-Catenin for proteasome degradation. In the present work, we used two peptides of 32 amino acids referred to beta-Cat17-48 and P-beta-Cat17-48 for the phosphorylated peptide at the two sites Ser33 and Ser37. Circular dichroism and NMR techniques were used to assess the influence of the phosphorylation. The spectra of the peptides at pH 7.2 were completely assigned. Analysis of the medium-range NOE connectivities indicated that beta-Cat17-48 seems to be only poorly folded. These data are in agreement with the result of structure calculations. P-beta-Cat17-48 possesses two helical segments around the DpSGXXpS motif, which forms a large bent with the phosphate groups pointing out of the structure. On the contrary, beta-Cat17-48 shows less well-defined secondary structures and appears as a more flexible peptide, but adopts in the motif DSGXXS a more compact conformation than P-beta-Cat17-48. Differences in this molecular region suggest that conformational changes of phosphorylated beta-Catenin play an important role for the interaction with the SCF-beta-TrCP protein complex.
Crystal structures of the signal transducing protein GlnK from Thermus thermophilus HB8.	The Thermus thermophilus HB8 genome encodes a signal transducing PII protein, GlnK. The crystal structures of GlnK have been determined in two different space groups, P2(1)2(1)2(1) and P3(1)21. The PII protein has the T-loop, which is essential for interactions with receptor proteins. In both crystal forms, three GlnK molecules form a trimer in the asymmetric unit. In one P2(1)2(1)2(1) crystal form, the three T-loops in the trimer are disordered, while in another P2(1)2(1)2(1) crystal form, the T-loop from one molecule in the trimer is ordered. In the P3(1)21 crystal, one T-loop is ordered while the other two T-loops are disordered. The conformations of the ordered T-loops significantly differ between the two crystal forms; one makes the alpha-helix in the middle of the T-loop, while the other has an extension of the beta-hairpin. Two different conformations are captured by the crystal contacts. The observation of multiple T-loop conformations suggests that the T-loop could potentially exhibit "polysterism," which would be important for interactions with receptor proteins. The crystal structures of the nucleotide-bound forms, GlnK.ATP and GlnK.ADP, have also been determined. ATP/ADP binding within a cleft at the interface of two adjacent T. thermophilus GlnK monomers might affect the conformation of the T-loop.
Detailed studies of the binding mechanism of the Sinorhizobium meliloti transcriptional activator ExpG to DNA.	The exopolysaccharide galactoglucan promotes the establishment of symbiosis between the nitrogen-fixing Gram-negative soil bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti 2011 and its host plant alfalfa. The transcriptional regulator ExpG activates expression of galactoglucan biosynthesis genes by direct binding to the expA1, expG/expD1 and expE1 promoter regions. ExpG is a member of the MarR family of regulatory proteins. Analysis of target sequences of an ExpG(His)(6) fusion protein in the exp promoter regions resulted in the identification of a binding site composed of a conserved palindromic region and two associated sequence motifs. Association and dissociation kinetics of the specific binding of ExpG(His)(6) to this binding site were characterized by standard biochemical methods and by single-molecule spectroscopy based on the atomic force microscope (AFM). Dynamic force spectroscopy indicated a distinct difference in the kinetics between the wild-type binding sequence and two mutated binding sites, leading to a closer understanding of the ExpG-DNA interaction.
Contextual interactions determine whether the Drosophila homeodomain protein, Vnd, acts as a repressor or activator.	At the molecular level, members of the NKx2.2 family of transcription factors establish neural compartment boundaries by repressing the expression of homeobox genes specific for adjacent domains [Muhr et al. (2001) Cell, 104, 861-873; Weiss et al. (1998) Genes Dev., 12, 3591-3602]. The Drosophila homologue, vnd, interacts genetically with the high-mobility group protein, Dichaete, in a manner suggesting co-operative activation [Zhao and Skeath (2002) Development, 129, 1165-1174]. However, evidence for direct interactions and transcriptional activation is lacking. Here, we present molecular evidence for the interaction of Vnd and Dichaete that leads to the activation of target gene expression. Two-hybrid interaction assays indicate that Dichaete binds the Vnd homeodomain, and additional Vnd sequences stabilize this interaction. In addition, Vnd has two activation domains that are typically masked in the intact protein. Whether vnd can activate or repress transcription is context-dependent. Full-length Vnd, when expressed as a Gal4 fusion protein, acts as a repressor containing multiple repression domains. A divergent domain in the N-terminus, not found in vertebrate Vnd-like proteins, causes the strongest repression. The co-repressor, Groucho, enhances Vnd repression, and these two proteins physically interact. The data presented indicate that the activation and repression domains of Vnd are complex, and whether Vnd functions as a transcriptional repressor or activator depends on both intra- and inter-molecular interactions.
CBP/p300 TAZ1 domain forms a structured scaffold for ligand binding.	The transcriptional coactivator protein CBP and its paralog p300 each contain two homologous zinc-containing TAZ domains, which constitute the interaction sites for a number of transcription factors. Previous reports of the three-dimensional structures of TAZ1 in complex with binding partners and of the isolated CBP TAZ2 domain show a distinctive topology composed of four amphipathic helices, organized by three zinc-binding clusters with HCCC-type coordination. The isolated CBP TAZ2 domain forms a stable three-dimensional structure in solution, but a recent report [Dial, R., Sun, Z., and Freedman, S. J. (2003) Biochemistry 42, 9937] suggested that the isolated p300 TAZ1 domain lacks a well-defined structure and behaves like a molten globule, even in the presence of Zn(2+), and that the formation of a stable three-dimensional structure requires binding of a protein partner. In marked contrast to this result, we find that both the CBP and p300 TAZ domains in the presence of stoichiometric concentrations of Zn(2+) adopt a well-defined structure in solution in the absence of binding partners. We have determined the three-dimensional structure of the isolated CBP TAZ1 domain by NMR methods and show that it has the same structure in the presence and absence of binding partners. This is an important finding: whether the free TAZ1 domain forms a folded structure or behaves as a molten globule will have a significant bearing on the mechanism of protein-protein recognition. Although TAZ1 and TAZ2 share many structural similarities, there is a major structural difference: the fourth helix is oriented in opposite directions in the TAZ1 and TAZ2 domains. The structure of the free TAZ1 domain suggests that this difference is an inherent feature that determines binding specificity and facilitates discrimination between different subsets of transcription factors by the two TAZ domains.
Slow folding of a three-helix protein via a compact intermediate.	The KIX domain of CREB binding protein (CBP) forms a small three-helix bundle which folds autonomously. Previous equilibrium unfolding experiments led to the suggestion that folding may not be strictly two-state. To investigate the folding mechanism in more detail, the folding kinetics of KIX have been studied by urea jump fluorescence-detected stopped-flow experiments. Clear evidence for an intermediate is obtained from the plot of the natural log of the observed rate constant versus denaturant concentration, the chevron plot, and from analysis of the initial fluorescence amplitudes of the stopped-flow experiments. The chevron plot exhibits a change in shape, rollover, at low denaturant concentrations, characteristic of the formation of an intermediate. The kinetic data can be fit to a three-state model involving a compact intermediate. An on-pathway model predicts that the position of the intermediate lies close to the native state. The folding rate in the absence of denaturant is 260 s(-)(1) at pH 7.5 and 25 degrees C. This is significantly slower than the rates of other helical proteins similar in size. The slow folding may be due to the necessity of forming a buried polar interaction in the native state. The potential functional significance of the folding intermediate is discussed.
Induced alpha-helix structure in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor transactivation domain modulates protein-protein interactions.	The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is an intracellular receptor protein that regulates gene transcription in response to both man-made and natural ligands. A modular transactivaton domain (TAD) has been mapped to the 304 C-terminal amino acids and consists of acidic, Q-rich, and P/S/T-rich subdomains. We have used steady-state intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence and circular dichroism spectroscopy to investigate the conformation of the acidic Q-rich region. The results reveal that this region of the protein is structurally flexible but adopts a more folded conformation in the presence of the natural osmolyte trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) and the solvent trifluoroethanol (TFE). In protein-protein interaction studies, the acidic Q-rich region bound to components of the general transcription machinery [TATA-binding protein (TBP), TAF4, and TAF6] as well as the coactivator proteins SRC-1a and TIF2. The binding site for TBP mapped to the acidic subdomain, while SRC-1a bound preferentially to the Q-rich sequence. Significantly, the binding of TBP was modulated by induced folding of the TAD with TMAO. The results indicate that the AhR TAD makes multiple interactions with the transcriptional machinery and protein conformation plays a critical role in receptor function. Taken together, these findings support a role for protein folding in AhR action and suggest possible mechanisms of receptor-dependent gene activation.
Overexpression of Smad2 in Tgf-beta3-null mutant mice rescues cleft palate.	Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta3 is an important contributor to the regulation of medial edge epithelium (MEE) disappearance during palatal fusion. SMAD2 phosphorylation in the MEE has been shown to be directly regulated by TGF-beta3. No phospho-SMAD2 was identified in the MEE in Tgf-beta3-null mutant mice (Tgf-beta3-/-), which was correlated with the persistence of the MEE and failure of palatal fusion. In the present study, the cleft palate phenotype in Tgf-beta3-/- mice was rescued by overexpression of a Smad2 transgene in Keratin 14-synthesizing MEE cells following mating Tgf-beta3 heterozygous mice with Keratin 14 promoter directed Smad2 transgenic mice (K14-Smad2). Success of the rescue could be attributed to the elevated phospho-SMAD2 level in the MEE, demonstrated by two indirect evidences. The rescued palatal fusion in Tgf-beta3-/-/K14-Smad2 mice, however, never proceeded to the junction of primary and secondary palates and the most posterior border of the soft palate, despite phospho-SMAD2 expression in these regions at the same level as in the middle portion of the secondary palate. The K14-Smad2 transgene was unable to restore all the functional outcomes of TGF-beta3. This may indicate an anterior-posterior patterning in the palatal shelves with respect to TGF-beta3 signaling and the mechanism of secondary palatal fusion.
The phosphorylation status of the serine-rich region of the human cytomegalovirus 86-kilodalton major immediate-early protein IE2/IEP86 affects temporal viral gene expression.	The 86-kDa major immediate-early protein (IE2/IEP86) of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) contains a serine-rich region (amino acids 258 to 275) with several consensus casein kinase II (CKII) sites. We performed extensive mutational analysis of this region, changing serines to alternating alanines and glycines. Mutation of the serines between amino acids 266 and 275 eliminated in vitro phosphorylation by CKII. In vitro CKII phosphorylation of the serines between amino acids 266 and 269 or between amino acids 271 and 275 inhibited the ability of IE2/IEP86 to bind to TATA-binding protein. Correspondingly, nonphosphorylatable mutants in these regions showed increased activation of specific HCMV gene promoters in transfection studies. Viruses containing mutations of the serines throughout the entire region (amino acids 258 to 275) or the second half (amino acids 266 to 275) of the region showed delayed expression of all viral proteins tested and, correspondingly, delayed growth compared to wild-type HCMV. Mutation of the serines in the first half of the serine-rich region (amino acids 258 to 264) or between amino acids 266 and 269 propagated very slowly and has not been further studied. In contrast, mutation of the serines between amino acids 271 and 275 resulted in accelerated virus growth and accelerated temporal expression of viral proteins. These results suggest that the serine-rich region is structurally complex, possibly affecting multiple functions of IE2/IEP86. The data show that the phosphorylation state of the serine-rich region, particularly between amino acids 271 and 275, modulates the temporal expression of viral genes.
Stat5 tetramer formation is associated with leukemogenesis.	Activation of Stat5 is frequently found in leukemias. To study the mechanism and role of Stat5 activation, we introduced a constitutively activated Stat5a mutant, cS5F, into murine bone marrow (BM) cells. BM transplantation with cS5F-transfected cells caused development of multilineage leukemias in lethally irradiated wild-type or nonirradiated Rag2(-/-) mice. The leukemic cells showed strongly enhanced levels of cS5F tetramers but unchanged cS5F dimer levels in a DNA binding assay. Moreover, Stat5a mutants engineered to form only dimers, but not tetramers, failed to induce leukemias. In addition, Stat5 tetramers were found to accumulate in excess compared to dimers in various human leukemias. These data suggest that Stat5 tetramers are associated with leukemogenesis.
Stat3 dimerization regulated by reversible acetylation of a single lysine residue.	Upon cytokine treatment, members of the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) family of proteins are phosphorylated on tyrosine and serine sites within the carboxyl-terminal region in cells. We show that in response to cytokine treatment, Stat3 is also acetylated on a single lysine residue, Lys685. Histone acetyltransferase p300-mediated Stat3 acetylation on Lys685 was reversible by type I histone deacetylase (HDAC). Use of a prostate cancer cell line (PC3) that lacks Stat3 and PC3 cells expressing wild-type Stat3 or a Stat3 mutant containing a Lys685-to-Arg substitution revealed that Lys685 acetylation was critical for Stat3 to form stable dimers required for cytokine-stimulated DNA binding and transcriptional regulation, to enhance transcription of cell growth-related genes, and to promote cell cycle progression in response to treatment with oncostatin M.
Directed evolution of Vibrio fischeri LuxR for increased sensitivity to a broad spectrum of acyl-homoserine lactones.	LuxR-type transcriptional regulators play key roles in quorum-sensing systems that employ acyl-homoserine lactones (acyl-HSLs) as signal molecules. These proteins mediate quorum control by changing their interactions with RNA polymerase and DNA in response to binding their cognate acyl-HSL. The evolutionarily related LuxR-type proteins exhibit considerable diversity in primary sequence and in their response to acyl-HSLs having acyl groups of differing length and composition. Little is known about which residues determine acyl-HSL specificity, and less about the evolutionary time scales required to forge new ones. To begin to examine such issues, we have focused on the LuxR protein from Vibrio fischeri, which activates gene transcription in response to binding its cognate quorum signal, 3-oxohexanoyl-homoserine lactone (3OC6HSL). Libraries of luxR mutants were screened for variants exhibiting increased gene activation in response to octanoyl-HSL (C8HSL), with which wild-type LuxR interacts only weakly. Eight LuxR variants were identified that showed a 100-fold increase in sensitivity to C8HSL; these variants also displayed increased sensitivities to pentanoyl-HSL and tetradecanoyl-HSL, while maintaining a wild-type or greater response to 3OC6HSL. The most sensitive variants activated gene transcription as strongly with C8HSL as the wild type did with 3OC6HSL. With one exception, the amino acid residues involved were restricted to the N-terminal, 'signal-binding' domain of LuxR. These residue positions differed from critical positions previously identified via 'loss-of-function' mutagenesis. We have demonstrated that acyl-HSL-dependent quorum-sensing systems can evolve rapidly to respond to new acyl-HSLs, suggesting that there may be an evolutionary advantage to maintaining such plasticity.
T helper cell fate specified by kinase-mediated interaction of T-bet with GATA-3.	Cell lineage specification depends on both gene activation and gene silencing, and in the differentiation of T helper progenitors to Th1 or Th2 effector cells, this requires the action of two opposing transcription factors, T-bet and GATA-3. T-bet is essential for the development of Th1 cells, and GATA-3 performs an equivalent role in Th2 development. We report that T-bet represses Th2 lineage commitment through tyrosine kinase-mediated interaction between the two transcription factors that interferes with the binding of GATA-3 to its target DNA. These results provide a novel function for tyrosine phosphorylation of a transcription factor in specifying alternate fates of a common progenitor cell.
Structure of the armadillo repeat domain of plakophilin 1.	The p120ctn subfamily of armadillo domain proteins has roles in modulating intercellular adhesion by cadherin-containing junctions. We have determined the crystal structure of the arm repeat domain from plakophilin-1 (PKP1), a member of the p120ctn subfamily that is found in desmosomes. The structure reveals that the domain has nine instead of the expected ten arm repeats. A sequence predicted to be an arm repeat is instead a large insert which serves as a wedge that produces a significant bend in the overall domain structure. Structure-based sequence alignments indicate that the nine repeats and large insert are common to this subfamily of armadillo proteins. A prominent basic patch on the surface of the protein may serve as a binding site for partners of these proteins.
Transcriptional activating regions target attached substrates to a cyclin-dependent kinase.	The yeast cyclin-dependent kinase Srb10 phosphorylates various transcriptional activators as they activate transcription, and acidic transcriptional activating domains found on several activators directly bind Srb10. Here we show that the interaction between Srb10 (with its associated cyclin Srb11) and each of several different activating regions, in vitro, leads to the phosphorylation of peptide sequences attached to but outside of the activating regions themselves. In some cases, residues within the activating regions are also phosphorylated. The results define a mechanism by which a kinase is recruited to alternate substrates with diverse physiological consequences.
Multiple homeostatic mechanisms in the control of P1 plasmid replication.	Many organisms control initiation of DNA replication by limiting supply or activity of initiator proteins. In plasmids, such as P1, initiators are limited primarily by transcription and dimerization. However, the relevance of initiator limitation to plasmid copy number control has appeared doubtful, because initiator oversupply increases the copy number only marginally. Copy number control instead has been attributed to initiator-mediated plasmid pairing ("handcuffing"), because initiator mutations to handcuffing deficiency elevates the copy number significantly. Here, we present genetic evidence of a role for initiator limitation in plasmid copy number control by showing that autorepression-defective initiator mutants also can elevate the plasmid copy number. We further show, by quantitative modeling, that initiator dimerization is a homeostatic mechanism that dampens active monomer increase when the protein is oversupplied. This finding implies that oversupplied initiator proteins are largely dimeric, partly accounting for their limited ability to increase copy number. A combination of autorepression, dimerization, and handcuffing appears to account fully for control of P1 plasmid copy number.
DNA bridging: a property shared among H-NS-like proteins.	The nucleoid-associated protein H-NS is thought to play an essential role in the organization of bacterial chromatin in Escherichia coli. Homologues, often with very low sequence identity, are found in most gram-negative bacteria. Microscopic analysis reveals that, despite limited sequence identity, their structural organization results in similar DNA binding properties.
Coactivators in gene regulation by STAT5.	Signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors that relay the effect of diverse cytokines, hormones, and growth factors by regulating the transcription of distinct target genes. This function is emphasized by its crucial role in the development of the mammary gland and the hematopoietic system. Cytokine receptor-associated Janus kinases (JAKs) induce dimerization, nuclear translocation, and DNA binding through tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5. STAT5 regulates the expression of cytokine target genes by binding to gamma interferon-activated sequence (GAS) motifs. Transcriptional activation requires the contact of STAT5 to coactivators and components of the transcription machinery. Another important point in transcriptional activation is the cooperation with other transcription factors that bind in close vicinity to the target gene promoters and enhancers. Their concerted action can result in an enhanced binding to the promoters or in cooperative recruitment of coactivators. In addition, cross-talk with other signaling pathways as well as secondary modifications of STAT5 have been described to affect transactivation function.
Intrinsically unstructured proteins and their functions.	Many gene sequences in eukaryotic genomes encode entire proteins or large segments of proteins that lack a well-structured three-dimensional fold. Disordered regions can be highly conserved between species in both composition and sequence and, contrary to the traditional view that protein function equates with a stable three-dimensional structure, disordered regions are often functional, in ways that we are only beginning to discover. Many disordered segments fold on binding to their biological targets (coupled folding and binding), whereas others constitute flexible linkers that have a role in the assembly of macromolecular arrays.
RGG-boxes of the EWS oncoprotein repress a range of transcriptional activation domains.	The Ewings Sarcoma Oncoprotein (EWS) interacts with several components of the mammalian transcriptional and pre-mRNA splicing machinery and is also found in the cytoplasm and even on the cell surface. The apparently diverse cellular functions of EWS are, however, not well characterized. EWS harbours a potent N-terminal transcriptional activation domain (the EAD) that is revealed in the context of oncogenic EWS-fusion proteins (EFPs) and a C-terminal RNA-binding domain (RBD) that recruits pre-mRNA splicing factors and may couple transcription and splicing. In contrast to EFPs, the presumed transcriptional role of normal EWS remains enigmatic. Here, we report that multiple RGG-boxes within the RBD are necessary and sufficient for cis-repression of the EAD and that RGG-boxes can also repress in-trans, within dimeric partners. Lys can functionally substitute for Arg, indicating that the basic nature of the Arg side chain is the critical determinant of RGG-box-mediated repression. In addition to the EAD, RGG-boxes can repress a broad range of activation domains (including those of VP16, E1a and CREB), but repression can be alleviated by the simultaneous presence of more than one activation domain. We therefore propose that a key function of RGG boxes within native EWS is to restrict promiscuous activation by the EAD while still allowing EWS to enter functional transcription complexes and participate in other transactions involving pre-mRNAs.
The open reading frame VI product of Cauliflower mosaic virus is a nucleocytoplasmic protein: its N terminus mediates its nuclear export and formation of electron-dense viroplasms.	The Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) open reading frame VI product (P6) is essential for the viral infection cycle. It controls translation reinitiation of the viral polycistronic RNAs and forms cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (viroplasms) where virus replication and assembly occur. In this study, the mechanism involved in viroplasm formation was investigated by in vitro and in vivo experiments. Far protein gel blot assays using a collection of P6 deletion mutants demonstrated that the N-terminal alpha-helix of P6 mediates interaction between P6 molecules. Transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells of full-length P6 and P6 mutants fused to enhanced green fluorescent protein revealed that viroplasms are formed at the periphery of the nucleus and that the N-terminal domain of P6 is an important determinant in this process. Finally, this study led to the unexpected finding that P6 is a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein and that its nuclear export is mediated by a Leu-rich sequence that is part of the alpha-helix domain implicated in viroplasm formation. The discovery that P6 can localize to the nucleus opens new prospects for understanding yet unknown roles of this viral protein in the course of the CaMV infection cycle.
Binding of six nucleotide cofactors to the hexameric helicase RepA protein of plasmid RSF1010. 1. Direct evidence of cooperative interactions between the nucleotide-binding sites of a hexameric helicase.	The interactions of nucleotides with RepA hexameric helicase from plasmid RSF1010 have been examined using nucleotide analogues, TNP-ADP, TNP-ATP, and MANT-ADP. The binding of the analogues is accompanied by strong quenching of the protein fluorescence. A quantitative fluorescence titration method has been applied to analyze the interactions, independent of any assumptions of proportionality between the fluorescence quenching and the average degree of binding. The fluorescence quenching as a function of the average degree of binding is expressed by an empirical function that enables analysis of the data, without the necessity of determining quenching parameters for different complexes. At saturation, the RepA hexamer binds six nucleotide molecules, indicating that each subunit of the hexamer can engage in interactions with the cofactor. The nucleotide macroscopic affinity decreases with the increasing degree of binding, indicating heterogeneity among the binding sites. A statistical thermodynamic hexagon model provides an excellent description of the binding process and requires only two interaction parameters, the intrinsic binding constant, K, and cooperativity parameter, sigma. The heterogeneity in affinity reflects negative cooperative interactions between the binding sites. Analyses of the data provide clear evidence that the alternative model of two independent classes of binding sites does not describe the nucleotide binding. Such a model cannot account for both, the binding isotherms and the dependence of the fluorescence quenching upon the degree of binding. Thus, cooperative interactions between the nucleotide-binding sites are an intrinsic property of the RepA helicase. The presence of the cooperative interactions indicates significant communication among the subunits of the helicase.
Binding of six nucleotide cofactors to the hexameric helicase RepA protein of plasmid RSF1010. 2. Base specificity, nucleotide structure, magnesium, and salt effect on the cooperative binding of the cofactors.	Interactions of the RepA hexameric helicase with nucleotide cofactors have been examined using nucleotide analogues, TNP-ADP and TNP-ATP, and unmodified nucleotides. Thermodynamic parameters for the interactions of modified and unmodified nucleotides have been obtained using quantitative fluorescence titration and competition titration methods. The intrinsic binding constant of ATP is by a factor of approximately 10 and approximately 1000 higher than the value observed for ADP and PO(4)(-). The data suggest that helicase acquires free-energy transducing capabilities when associated with the ssDNA, thus, forming a "holoenzyme". ATP binding is characterized by significantly stronger negative cooperativity than ADP. The cooperative interactions are predominantly induced through the specific interactions of the gamma phosphate and the ribose with the protein. The salt effect on cofactor binding indicates a very different nature of the intrinsic and cooperative interactions. Surprisingly, binding of Mg(2+), to both the cofactor and helicase, predominantly controls the ADP-RepA interactions. Mg(2+) cations seem to play a role in affecting the distribution of high and low ssDNA-affinity states, through the strong effect on the diphosphate versus triphosphate binding. The data indicate that Mg(2+) has a dual function in nucleotide-helicase interactions. At low [Mg(2+)], NTP binds stronger than NDP and the enzyme is predominantly in the high ssDNA-affinity state. At higher [Mg(2+)], NTP binds weaker than NDP and the helicase subunits can exist in alternating low- and high-affinity states that facilitate the efficient dsDNA unwinding. The RepA helicase shows a preference toward purine nucleotides. The cooperative interactions are independent of the type of the base.
Proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2) mediates vascular endothelial-cadherin-based cell-cell adhesion by regulating beta-catenin tyrosine phosphorylation.	Vascular endothelial-cadherin (VE-cadherin) controls endothelial cell-cell adhesion and preserves endothelial integrity. In order to maintain endothelial barrier function, VE-cadherin function is tightly regulated through mechanisms that involve protein phosphorylation and cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, we show that loss of VE-cadherin function results in intercellular gap formation and a drop in electrical resistance of monolayers of primary human endothelial cells. Detailed analysis revealed that loss of endothelial cell-cell adhesion, induced by VE-cadherin-blocking antibodies, is preceded by and dependent on a rapid activation of Rac1 and increased production of reactive oxygen species. Moreover, VE-cadherin-associated beta-catenin is tyrosine-phosphorylated upon loss of cell-cell contact. Finally, the redox-sensitive proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2) is activated and recruited to cell-cell junctions following the loss of VE-cadherin homotypic adhesion. Conversely, the inhibition of Pyk2 activity in endothelial cells by the expression of CRNK (CADTK/CAKbeta-related non-kinase), an N-terminal deletion mutant that acts in a dominant negative fashion, not only abolishes the increase in beta-catenin tyrosine phosphorylation but also prevents the loss of endothelial cell-cell contact. These results implicate Pyk2 in the reduced cell-cell adhesion induced by the Rac-mediated production of ROS through the tyrosine phosphorylation of beta-catenin. This signaling is initiated upon loss of VE-cadherin function and is important for our insight in the modulation of endothelial integrity.
Collagen alpha1(I) gene (COL1A1) is repressed by RFX family.	Collagen type I is composed of three polypeptide chains transcribed from two separate genes (COL1A1 and COL1A2) with different promoters requiring coordinate regulation. Our recent publications, centering on COL1A2 regulation, demonstrate that methylation in the first exon of COL1A2 at a regulatory factor for X box (RFX) site (at -1 to +20) occurs in human cancer cells and correlates with increased RFX1 binding and decreased collagen transcription (Sengupta, P. K., Erhlich, M., and Smith, B. D. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 36649-36655; Sengupta, S., Smith, E. M., Kim, K., Murnane, M. J., and Smith, B. D. (2003) Cancer Res. 63, 1789-1797). In normal cells, RFX5 complex along with major histocompatibility class II transactivator (CIITA) is induced by interferon-gamma to occupy this site and repress collagen transcription (Xu, Y., Wang, L., Buttice, G., Sengupta, P. K., and Smith, B. D. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 41319-41332). In this paper, we demonstrate that COL1A1 has an RFX consensus binding site surrounding the transcription start site (-11 to +10) that contains three methylation sites rather than one in the COL1A2 gene RFX binding site. RFX1 interacts weakly with the unmethylated COL1A1 site, and binds with higher affinity to the methylated site. RFX1 represses the unmethylated COL1A1 less efficiently than COL1A2. COL1A1 promoter activity is sensitive to DNA methylation and the COL1A1 gene is methylated in human cancer cells with coordinately decreased collagen expression. The DNA methylation inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (aza-dC) increases collagen gene expression with time in human cancer cells. On the other hand, RFX5 interacts with both collagen type I genes with a similar binding affinity and represses both promoters equally in transient transfections. Two dominant negative forms of RFX5 activate both collagen genes coordinately. Finally, CIITA RNA interference experiments indicate that CIITA induction is required for interferon gamma-mediated repression of both collagen type I genes.
Degradation of the tumor suppressor Smad4 by WW and HECT domain ubiquitin ligases.	Smad4 mediates signaling by the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of cytokines. Smad signaling is negatively regulated by inhibitory (I) Smads and ubiquitin-mediated processes. Known mechanisms of proteasomal degradation of Smads depend on the direct interaction of specific E3 ligases with Smads. Alternatively, I-Smads elicit degradation of the TGF-beta receptor by recruiting the WW and HECT domain E3 ligases, Smurfs, WWP1, or NEDD4-2. We describe an equivalent mechanism of degradation of Smad4 by the above E3 ligases, via formation of ternary complexes between Smad4 and Smurfs, mediated by R-Smads (Smad2) or I-Smads (Smad6/7), acting as adaptors. Smurfs, which otherwise cannot directly bind to Smad4, mediated poly-ubiquitination of Smad4 in the presence of Smad6 or Smad7. Smad4 co-localized with Smad7 and Smurf1 primarily in the cytoplasm and in peripheral cell protrusions. Smad2 or Smad7 mutants defective in Smad4 interaction failed to induce Smurf1-mediated down-regulation of Smad4. A Smad4 mutant defective in Smad2 or Smad7 interaction could not be effectively down-regulated by Smurf1. We propose that Smad4 is targeted for degradation by multiple ubiquitin ligases that can simultaneously act on R-Smads and signaling receptors. Such mechanisms of down-regulation of TGF-beta signaling may be critical for proper physiological response to this pathway.
In vivo hierarchy of immunodominant and subdominant HLA-A*0201-restricted T-cell epitopes of HBx antigen of hepatitis B virus.	A polyepitopic CD8+ T-cell response is critical for the control of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The HBV X protein (HBx) is a multifunctional protein that is important for the viral life cycle and for host-virus interactions. The aim of this study was to analyze the immunogenicity and dominance of various HLA-A*0201-restricted HBx-derived epitopes. For this purpose, we immunized HLA-A*0201-transgenic mice with HBx-derived peptides and DNA. This is a powerful model for studying the induction of HLA-A*0201-restricted immune responses in vivo, as these mice possess a cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) repertoire representative of HLA-A2.1 individuals. We used cytotoxic tests and enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) assays to study the induction of specific cytotoxic and interferon (IFN)-gamma-secreting T cells. This allowed us to classify the HBx epitopes according to their T-cell activation capacity. After endogenous processing of the antigen synthesized in vivo after DNA-based immunization, we found that the HBx-specific T-cell response is targeted against one immunodominant epitope. Furthermore, following peptide immunization, we identified six additional novel subdominant T-cell epitopes. Inclusion of well-characterized epitopic sequences of HBx in a new vaccine for chronic HBV infections could help to broaden the T-cell response.
The balance between acetylation and deacetylation controls Smad7 stability.	Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) regulates multiple cellular processes via activation of Smad signaling pathways. We have recently demonstrated that the inhibitory Smad7 interacts with the acetyl transferase p300 and that p300 acetylates Smad7 on two lysine residues. These lysine residues are critical for Smurf-mediated ubiquitination of Smad7, and acetylation protects Smad7 from TGFbeta-induced degradation. In this study we demonstrate that Smad7 interacts with specific histone deacetylases (HDACs) and that the same HDACs are able to deacetylate Smad7. The interaction with HDACs is dependent on the C-terminal MH2 domain of Smad7. In addition, HDAC1-mediated deacetylation of Smad7 decreases the stability of Smad7 by enhancing its ubiquitination. Thus, our results demonstrate that the degradation of Smad7 is regulated by the balance between acetylation, deacetylation and ubiquitination, indicating that this could be a general mechanism to regulate the stability of cellular proteins.
Cloning and sequencing of Pseudomonas genes determining sodium dodecyl sulfate biodegradation.	The nucleotide sequences of two genes involved in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) degradation, by Pseudomonas, have been determined. One of these, sdsA, codes for an alkyl sulfatase (58,957 Da) and has similarity (31.8% identity over a 201-amino acid stretch) to the N terminus of a predicted protein of unknown function from Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The other gene, sdsB, codes for a positive activator protein (33,600 Da) that has extensive similarity with the lysR family of helix-turn-helix DNA-binding activator proteins.
Functional interaction between beta-catenin and FOXO in oxidative stress signaling.	beta-Catenin is a multifunctional protein that mediates Wnt signaling by binding to members of the T cell factor (TCF) family of transcription factors. Here, we report an evolutionarily conserved interaction of beta-catenin with FOXO transcription factors, which are regulated by insulin and oxidative stress signaling. beta-Catenin binds directly to FOXO and enhances FOXO transcriptional activity in mammalian cells. In Caenorhabditis elegans, loss of the beta-catenin BAR-1 reduces the activity of the FOXO ortholog DAF-16 in dauer formation and life span. Association of beta-catenin with FOXO was enhanced in cells exposed to oxidative stress. Furthermore, BAR-1 was required for the oxidative stress-induced expression of the DAF-16 target gene sod-3 and for resistance to oxidative damage. These results demonstrate a role for beta-catenin in regulating FOXO function that is particularly important under conditions of oxidative stress.
Roles for lysine residues of the MH2 domain of Smad3 in transforming growth factor-beta signaling.	Sma and MAD-related protein 3 (Smad3) plays a key role in the intracellular signaling of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family of growth factors, which exhibits a diverse set of cellular responses, including cell proliferation and differentiation. Smad3 has the N-terminal Mad homology (MH) 1 and the C-terminal MH2 domains. MH2 domain is essential for the TGF-beta-induced transcriptional activation, because the MH2 domain of Smad3 is involved in the interactions with several transcriptional cofactors as well as the type I TGF-beta receptor (TbetaR-I). In this study, we examined the roles for four lysine residues (Lys-333, Lys-341, Lys-378, and Lys-409) in the Smad3 MH2 domain. Mutation of the lysine (K)-378 to arginine (R) (K378R) abolished the interaction with TbetaR-I, phosphorylation, transcriptional activation by an active TbetaR-I. The K341R mutant also failed to stimulate TGF-beta-induced transcription by resting in the cytoplasm. However, the K409R mutant showed a higher transcriptional activity by stronger interactions with co-activators, such as p300/CBP. Furthermore, both the K341R and K378R mutants act as dominant-negative inhibitors in the TGF-beta-induced target genes of endogenous TGF-beta signal. Thus, the lysine residues of Smad3 MH2 domain play important roles in the transcriptional regulation of TGF-beta signals through TbetaR-I.
BZLF1 activation of the methylated form of the BRLF1 immediate-early promoter is regulated by BZLF1 residue 186.	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome is highly methylated in latently infected cells. We recently reported that the EBV immediate-early (IE) protein BZLF1 (Z) preferentially binds to and activates transcription from the methylated form of the BRLF1 IE gene promoter (Rp). We now report that serine residue 186 in the Z DNA-binding domain plays an important role in the ability of Z to bind to and activate methylated Rp. A Z mutant containing an alanine residue at position 186 [Z(S186A)] was significantly defective in binding to methylated, as well as unmethylated, ZREs (Z-responsive elements) in Rp and was unable to activate lytic EBV gene transcription from the methylated or demethylated form of the viral genome. A Z mutant containing threonine at residue 186 [Z(S186T)] bound only to the methylated form of the ZRE-2 site in Rp and induced lytic EBV gene transcription from the methylated, but not demethylated, form of the viral genome. The defect in both of these mutants was primarily due to an inability to activate the Rp in the context of the viral genome. Finally, a Z mutant containing an aspartic acid at position 186 [Z(S186D)] did not bind to either the consensus AP-1 site or to the methylated or unmethylated Rp ZRE-2 site and did not induce lytic gene transcription. These results indicate that replacement of serine with threonine at residue 186 in the Z DNA-binding domain differentially affects its ability to reactivate the unmethylated, versus methylated, viral genome.
Exon 3 of the human cytomegalovirus major immediate-early region is required for efficient viral gene expression and for cellular cyclin modulation.	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) major immediate-early (IE) proteins share an 85-amino-acid N-terminal domain specified by exons 2 and 3 of the major IE region, UL122-123. We have constructed IE Delta30-77, a recombinant virus that lacks the majority of IE exon 3 and consequently expresses smaller forms of both IE1 72- and IE2 86-kDa proteins. The mutant virus is viable but growth impaired at both high and low multiplicities of infection and exhibits a kinetic defect that is not rescued by growth in fibroblasts expressing IE1 72-kDa protein. The kinetics of mutant IE2 protein accumulation in IE Delta30-77 virus-infected cells are approximately normal compared to wild-type virus-infected cells, but the IE Delta30-77 virus is delayed in expression of early viral genes, including UL112-113 and UL44, and does not sustain expression of mutant IE1 protein as the infection progresses. Additionally, cells infected with IE Delta30-77 exhibit altered expression of cellular proteins compared to wild-type HCMV-infected cells. PML is not dispersed but is retained at ND10 sites following infection with IE Delta30-77 mutant virus. While the deletion mutant retains the ability to mediate the stabilization of cyclin B1, cdc6, and geminin in infected cells, its capacity to upregulate the expression of cyclin E has been reduced. These data indicate that the activity of one or both of the HCMV major IE proteins is required in vivo for the modulation of cell cycle proteins observed in cells infected with wild-type HCMV.
Investigation of the multimerization region of the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (human herpesvirus 8) protein K-bZIP: the proposed leucine zipper region encodes a multimerization domain with an unusual structure.	The K8 gene of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (human herpesvirus 8) shares many functional similarities with the BZLF1 gene of Epstein-Barr virus. The protein products of K8 and BZLF1, K-bZIP (RAP, K8) and Zta (BZLF1, ZEBRA, Z) have both been proposed to be members of the bZIP family of transcription factors, forming multimers via a coiled-coil motif termed a leucine zipper. Substantial evidence supporting this model for Zta is published. Here, we demonstrate that the proposed leucine zipper region of K-bZIP (amino acids 182 to 218) is required for multimer formation but that it does not fold as a coiled coil.
The functionally active IE2 immediate-early regulatory protein of human cytomegalovirus is an 80-kilodalton polypeptide that contains two distinct activator domains and a duplicated nuclear localization signal.	The IE2 region of the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) strain Towne major immediate-early (MIE) gene encodes a transcriptional transactivator that stimulates expression from a variety of heterologous target promoters but specifically down-regulates its own promoter. By immunofluorescence and Western immunoblot analysis with monospecific peptide antisera, we found that human CMV MIE exon 5 encodes four overlapping polypeptides, two present at immediate-early times (80 and 55 kDa) and two others detected only at late times after infection (55 and 40 kDa). However, only the 80-kDa version (579 amino acids), which is derived from the small upstream exons 2 and 3 fused to the intact exon 5 region, was functionally active in both transactivation and autoregulation as assessed by cotransfection experiments. These results confirm the corrected assignment of the coding capacity of the exon 5 region based on amino acid homology with the equivalent IE2 protein from simian CMV (Colburn). In transient DNA transfection assays, IE2 expression plasmids also produced a predominant full-length 80-kDa protein, which was localized in a distinctive reticular pattern in the nucleus. Two short basic nuclear localization signals in IE2 were identified by deletion analysis and by conversion of a test cytoplasmic herpes simplex virus protein into a form that localized in the nucleus after insertion of either of these two human CMV motifs. Functional assays with MIE region plasmids containing deletions or truncations in exon 5 revealed that both transactivation and autoregulation required several distinct domains within the COOH half of the IE2 protein, whereas a region between codons 99 and 194 could be discarded. Three segments at the NH2 end of the protein between codons 1 to 85, 86 to 98, and 195 to 290 were also essential for transactivation but played no role in autoregulation. Finally, in domain swap experiments, GAL4-fusion proteins containing either an NH2-terminal 51-amino-acid domain from exon 3 (codons 25 to 85) or the COOH-terminal 33-amino-acid domain from exon 5 (codons 544 to 579) identified two distinct activator domains from IE2, both of which have acidic characteristics.
Effect of mutation on the dissociation and recombination dynamics of CO in transcriptional regulator CooA: a picosecond infrared transient absorption study.	The CO ligation process in a mutant (H77G) of CooA, the CO-sensing transcriptional regulator in Rhodospirillum rubrum, is studied with femtosecond time-resolved transient absorption spectroscopy in the mid-infrared region. Following photolyzing excitation, a transient bleach in the vibrational region of bound CO due to the CO photodissociation is detected. In contrast to the spectra of the wild-type (WT) CooA, the transient bleach spectra of H77G CooA show a bimodal shape with peaks shifting to the lower frequency during spectral evolution. The CO recombination dynamics show single-exponential behavior, and the CO escaping yield is higher than that of the WT CooA. A reorientation process of CO relative to the heme plane during recombination is revealed by anisotropy measurements. These phenomena indicate changes in the protein response to the CO ligation and suggest an alteration to the CO environment caused by the mutation. On the basis of these results, the role of His77 in the CO-dependent activation of CooA and a possible activation mechanism involving collaborative movement of the heme and the amino residues at both sides of the heme plane are discussed.
New insights into the regulatory mechanisms of the LuxR family of quorum sensing regulators.	Bacteria use small signal molecules, referred to as autoinducers, in order to monitor their population density and coordinate gene expression in a process named quorum sensing. In Gram-negative bacteria, acylated homoserine lactones are the most common autoinducer used for cell-to-cell communication. Increasing evidence that many different functions are controlled by acylated homoserine lactone quorum sensing has stimulated intensive investigations into the physiology, molecular biology and biochemistry that underlie this process. Here we review our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms used by the transcriptional regulators responsive to acylated homoserine lactone autoinducers to control gene expression and the structural modifications induced by acylated homoserine lactones binding specifically on these regulators.
Linker regions of the RhaS and RhaR proteins.	Substitutions within the interdomain linkers of the AraC/XylS family proteins RhaS and RhaR were tested to determine whether side chain identity or linker structure was required for function. Neither was found crucial, suggesting that the linkers do not play a direct role in activation, but rather simply connect the two domains.
The Rta/Orf50 transactivator proteins of the gamma-herpesviridae.	The replication and transcription activator protein, Rta, is encoded by Orf50 in Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and other known gammaherpesviruses including Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), rhesus rhadinovirus (RRV), herpesvirus saimiri (HVS), and murine herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68). Each Rta/Orf50 homologue of each gammaherpesvirus plays a pivotal role in the initiation of viral lytic gene expression and lytic reactivation from latency. Here we discuss the Rta/Orf50 of KSHV in comparison to the Rta/Orf50s of other gammaherpesviruses in an effort to identify structural motifs, mechanisms of action, and modulating host factors.
A role for the conserved GAFTGA motif of AAA+ transcription activators in sensing promoter DNA conformation.	Transcription from sigma54-dependent bacterial promoters can be regarded as a second paradigm for bacterial gene transcription. The initial sigma54-RNA polymerase (RNAP).promoter complex, the closed complex, is transcriptionally silent. The transcriptionally proficient sigma54-RNAP.promoter complex, the open complex, is formed upon remodeling of the closed complex by actions of a specialized activator protein that belongs to the AAA (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) protein family in an ATP hydrolysis-dependent reaction. The integrity of a highly conserved signature motif in the AAA activator (known as the GAFTGA motif) is important for the remodeling activity of the AAA activator and for open complex formation. We now provide evidence that the invariant threo-nine residue of the GAFTGA motif plays a role in sensing the DNA downstream of the sigma54-RNAP-binding site and in coupling this information to sigma54-RNAP via the conserved regulatory Region I domain of sigma54 during open complex formation.
BS69, a corepressor interacting with ZHX1, is a bifunctional transcription factor.	Corepressor BS69 interacts with ZHX1, a member of the ZHX family having zinc-fingers and homeoboxes. In the rat, we have identified four forms of splicing variants, BS69alpha, BS69beta, BS69gamma, and BS69delta. Based on the amino acid sequence, BS69alpha corresponded to the human orthologue. BS69beta and BS69gamma contain a novel 56 amino acid region encoded by the exon 11b of the rat BS69 gene. Both BS69gamma and BS69delta lacked a region encoded by exon 3 of the gene. Although all four variants were ubiquitously expressed in rats, the transcripts having the exon 11b were detected in mice and rats but not in humans. A common C-terminal MYND domain of BS69 was required for the interaction with PxLxP motif of ZHX1. Although BS69 was originally found as a corepressor interacting with ZHX1, BS69 was also found to function as a transcriptional activator in HEK293 cells, in which the activation required the MYND domain of BS69. Co-transfection of BS69 with a mutant form of ZHX1, which cannot interact with BS69, led to increase the transcriptional activation of BS69, suggesting that transcriptional activation mediated by BS69 is suppressed by ZHX1. In contrast, BS69 showed transcriptional repression in COS-7 and CV-1 cells and the repression domain was mapped to the N-terminus of BS69beta. Both the wild type and mutant form of ZHX1 had no effect on the BS69 repression, suggesting that the repression mediated by BS69 in COS-7 and CV-1 cells may require a cofactor other than ZHX1 in the cells. Therefore, our results suggest that BS69 may function either as a transcriptional repressor or as a transcriptional activator depending on its regulatory partner.
Identification of a new AT-rich-element binding factor PsATF1 and its combined effect with PsGBF on the activation of  PsCHS1 promoter.	Chaltone synthase (CHS) is a key speed-limiting enzyme in the phenylpropanoid pathway which plays an important role in plant defense response against pathogens. In the PsCHS1 promoter, there is an AT-rich element (ATRE) which is required for the maximal elicitor-mediated activation. However, the transcription activator of the ATRE and its regulation mechanism in pea keep unclear. In this paper, a new ATRE-binding factor was isolated from an elicitor-induced pea cDNA expression library and was designated as PsATF1. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) indicated the ATRE-specific binding activity of PsATF1. Beta-galactosidase assays in yeast cells suggested that PsATF1 possessed transcription-activating activity because PsATF1 activated the expression of the reporter gene even without the GAL4 activation domain (AD). The current study also examined the co-activation effects of PsATF1 with another transcription factor PsGBF on ATRE or PsCHS1 promoter through a transient expression system. The present work reports that PsATF1 acts as a complete transcription activator and first indicates that there are combined effects of PsATF1 with PsGBF on the activation of PsCHS1 promoter. These results provide theoretical basis to the plant defense gene expression mechanism regulated by multiple activators.
The ColE2-P9 Rep protein binds to the origin DNA as a monomer.	The Rep proteins of some plasmid replicons have two functions. Dimers bind to the operator sequences acting as auto-repressors, whereas monomers bind to the iterons to initiate replication of DNA. The ColE2 Rep proteins are present mostly in a dimeric form with some multimers larger than dimers in solution, while the form of Rep binding to Ori is not known. We used an EMSA-based method to determine the molecular weight of Rep in the Rep-Ori complex. The result suggested that Rep binds to Ori as a monomer. In addition, the result of EMSA using the Rep protein fused with the maltose binding protein and the His6-tag also supported this conclusion. We proposed that dimerization of Rep might probably be involved in keeping the copy number of the ColE2 plasmid at the normal low level by limiting the amount of active monomeric forms of Rep in the host cell.
Hepatitis B virus X protein enhances androgen receptor-responsive gene expression depending on androgen level.	Persistent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). One intriguing feature of HBV-related HCC is the male predominance, with a male to female ratio of 5-7:1. This dominance has been attributed to the elevated androgen level and the enhanced androgen receptor (AR)-mediated activity in the host. How HBV infection and AR signaling modulate HCC is unknown. We investigated whether the HBV nonstructural protein, X protein (HBx) could cooperate with the AR signaling pathway to enhance carcinogenesis. We found that HBx increased the anchorage-independent colony-formation potency of AR in a nontransformed mouse hepatocyte cell line. We also found that HBx functioned as a positive transcriptional coregulator to increase AR-mediated transcriptional activity. This transcription enhancement was increased in the presence of androgen in a concentration-responsive manner, thus explaining a more prominent effect in males. HBx did not physically associate with ligand-bound AR in the nucleus, and it likely augmented AR activity by increasing the phosphorylation of AR through HBx-mediated activation of the c-Src kinase signaling pathway. Our study documents HBx as a previously undescribed class of noncellular positive coregulators for AR. The results reveal a mechanism for the vulnerability of males to microbial infections and the subsequent development of cancer.
Characterization of the signaling domain of the NO-responsive regulator NorR from Ralstonia eutropha H16 by site-directed mutagenesis.	In Ralstonia eutropha H16, the nitric oxide (NO)-responsive transcriptional activator NorR controls the expression of a dicistronic operon that encodes a membrane-bound NO reductase, NorB, and a protein of unknown function, NorA. The N-terminal domain (NTD) of NorR is responsible for perception of the signal molecule, nitric oxide. Thirteen out of 29 conserved residues of the NTD were exchanged by site-directed mutagenesis. Replacement of R63, R72, D93, D96, C112, D130, or F137 strongly decreased NorR-dependent promoter activation, while the exchange of Y95 or H110 led to an increase in promoter activity compared to that of the wild type. A purified truncated NorR comprising only the NTD (NorR-NTD) contained one iron atom per molecule and was able to bind NO in the as-isolated state. Based on the iron content of NorR-NTD proteins with single amino acid replacements, residues R72, D93, D96, C112, and D130 are likely candidates for iron ligands. Residues R63, Y95, and H110 appear not to be involved in NO binding but may take part in subsequent steps of the signal transduction mechanism of NorR.
Elevating the levels of Sox2 in embryonal carcinoma cells and embryonic stem cells inhibits the expression of Sox2:Oct-3/4 target genes.	Recent studies have identified large sets of genes in embryonic stem and embryonal carcinoma cells that are associated with the transcription factors Sox2 and Oct-3/4. Other studies have shown that Sox2 and Oct-3/4 work together cooperatively to stimulate the transcription of their own genes as well as a network of genes required for embryogenesis. Moreover, small changes in the levels of Sox2:Oct-3/4 target genes alter the fate of stem cells. Although positive feedforward and feedback loops have been proposed to explain the activation of these genes, little is known about the mechanisms that prevent their overexpression. Here, we demonstrate that elevating Sox2 levels inhibits the endogenous expression of five Sox2:Oct-3/4 target genes. In addition, we show that Sox2 repression is dependent on the binding sites for Sox2 and Oct-3/4. We also demonstrate that inhibition is dependent on the C-terminus of Sox2, which contains its transactivation domain. Finally, our studies argue that overexpression of neither Oct-3/4 nor Nanog broadly inhibits Sox2:Oct-3/4 target genes. Collectively, these studies provide new insights into the diversity of mechanisms that control Sox2:Oct-3/4 target genes and argue that Sox2 functions as a molecular rheostat for the control of a key transcriptional regulatory network.
QseA directly activates transcription of LEE1 in enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli.	Quorum sensing (QS) in enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) regulates the expression of the locus of enterocyte effacement (LEE). The LEE contains five major operons named LEE1 through LEE5. QseA was previously shown to be activated through QS and to activate the transcription of LEE1. The LEE1 operon encodes Ler, the transcription activator of all other LEE genes, and has two promoters: a distal promoter (P1) and a proximal promoter (P2). We have previously reported that QseA acts on P1 and not P2. To identify the minimal region of LEE1 that is necessary for QseA-mediated activation, a series of nested-deletion constructs of the LEE1 promoter fused to a lacZ reporter were constructed in both the EHEC and E. coli K-12 backgrounds. In an EHEC background, QseA-dependent activation of LEE1 can be observed for the entire regulatory region (beginning at nucleotide -393 and ending at nucleotide -123). In contrast to what occurred in EHEC, in K-12 there was no QseA-dependent activation of LEE1 transcription between base pairs -393 and -343. These data indicate that a QseA-dependent EHEC-specific regulator is required for the activation of transcription in this region. We also observed QseA-dependent LEE1 activation from nucleotides -218 to -123 in K-12, similar to results of the nested-deletion analysis performed with EHEC. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays established that QseA directly binds to the region of LEE1 from bp -173 to -42 and not to the region from bp -393 to -343. These studies suggest that QseA activates the transcription of LEE1 by directly binding upstream of its P1 promoter region.
Steroid receptor coactivator 3 is a coactivator for myocardin, the regulator of smooth muscle transcription and differentiation.	Abnormal proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) constitutes a key event in atherosclerosis, neointimal hyperplasia, and the response to vascular injury. Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) mediates the protective effects of estrogen in injured blood vessels and regulates ligand-dependent gene expression in vascular cells. However, the molecular mechanisms mediating ERalpha-dependent VSMC gene expression and VSMC proliferation after vascular injury are not well defined. Here, we report that the ER coactivator steroid receptor coactivator 3 (SRC3) is also a coactivator for the major VSMC transcription factor myocardin, which is required for VSMC differentiation to the nonproliferative, contractile state. The N terminus of SRC3, which contains a basic helix-loop-helix/Per-ARNT-Sim protein-protein interaction domain, binds the C-terminal activation domain of myocardin and enhances myocardin-mediated transcriptional activation of VSMC-specific, CArG-containing promoters, including the VSMC-specific genes SM22 and myosin heavy chain. Suppression of endogenous SRC3 expression by specific small interfering RNA attenuates myocardin transcriptional activation in cultured cells. The SRC3-myocardin interaction identifies a site of convergence for nuclear hormone receptor-mediated and VSMC-specific gene regulation and suggests a possible mechanism for the vascular protective effects of estrogen on vascular injury.
Molecular insights into quorum sensing in the human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa from the structure of the virulence regulator LasR bound to its autoinducer.	Many Gram-negative bacteria communicate via molecules called autoinducers to coordinate the activities of their populations. Such communication is termed quorum sensing and can regulate pathogenic virulence factor production and antimicrobial resistance. The quorum sensing system of Pseudomonas aeruginosa is currently the most intensively researched, because this bacterium is an opportunistic human pathogen annually responsible for the death of thousands of cystic fibrosis sufferers and many other immunocompromised individuals. Quorum sensing inhibitors can attenuate the pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa. Here we present the crystal structure of the P. aeruginosa LasR ligand-binding domain bound to its autoinducer 3-oxo-C(12)-acylhomoserine lactone. The structure is a symmetrical dimer, with each monomer exhibiting an alpha-beta-alpha fold similar to the TraR and SdiA quorum sensing proteins of Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Escherichia coli. The structure was determined up to 1.8-A resolution and reveals the atomic interactions between LasR and its autoinducer. The monomer structures of LasR, TraR, and SdiA are comparable but display differences in their quaternary organization. Inspection of their binding sites shows some unexpected variations resulting in quite different conformations of their bound autoinducers. We modeled interactions between LasR and various quorum sensing inhibitors, yielding insight into their possible mechanisms of action. The structure also provides a platform for the optimization, or de novo design, of quorum sensing inhibitors.
The structure and transcriptional analysis of a global regulator from Neisseria meningitidis.	Neisseria meningitidis, a causative agent of bacterial meningitis, has a relatively small repertoire of transcription factors, including NMB0573 (annotated AsnC), a member of the Lrp-AsnC family of regulators that are widely expressed in both Bacteria and Archaea. In the present study we show that NMB0573 binds to l-leucine and l-methionine and have solved the structure of the protein with and without bound amino acids. This has shown, for the first time that amino acid binding does not induce significant conformational changes in the structure of an AsnC/Lrp regulator although it does appear to stabilize the octameric assembly of the protein. Transcriptional profiling of wild-type and NMB0573 knock-out strains of N. meningitidis has shown that NMB0573 is associated with an adaptive response to nutrient poor conditions reflected in a reduction in major surface protein expression. On the basis of its structure and the transcriptional response, we propose that NMB0573 is a global regulator in Neisseria controlling responses to nutrient availability through indicators of general amino acid abundance: leucine and methionine.
GvpD-induced breakdown of the transcriptional activator GvpE of halophilic archaea requires a functional p-loop and an arginine-rich region of GvpD.	The two proteins involved in the regulation of gas vesicle formation in Haloferax mediterranei, mcGvpE (activator) and mcGvpD (repressive function), are able to interact in vitro. It was also found that the respective proteins cGvpE and cGvpD of Halobacterium salinarum and the heterologous pairs mcGvpD-cGvpE and cGvpD-mcGvpE were able to interact. Previously constructed mcGvpD mutants with alterations in regions affecting the repressive function of GvpD (p-loop motif or the two arginine-rich regions bR1 and bR2) were tested for their ability to interact with GvpE, and all still bound GvpE. Even a deletion of or near the p-loop motif in GvpD did not affect this ability to interact. Further deletion variants lacking larger N- or C-terminal portions of mcGvpD yielded that neither the N-terminal region with the p-loop motif nor the C-terminal portion were important for the binding of GvpE, and suggested that the central portion is involved in GvpE binding. The GvpD protein also induces a reduction in the amount of GvpE in Haloferax volcanii transformants expressing both genes under fdx promoter control on a single plasmid. Such DE(ex) transformants contain GvpD, but no detectable GvpE, whereas large amounts of GvpE are found in DeltaDE(ex) transformants that have incurred a deletion within the gvpD gene. A similar reduction was observed in D(ex)+E(ex) transformants harbouring both reading frames under fdx promoter control on two different plasmids. GvpD wild-type and also GvpD mutants were tested, and a significant reduction in the amount of GvpE was obtained in the case of GvpD wild-type and the super-repressor mutant GvpD(3-AAA). In contrast, transformants harbouring GvpD mutants with alterations in the p-loop motif or the bR1 region still contained GvpE. Since the amount of gvpE transcript was not reduced, the reduction occurred at the protein level. These results underlined that a functional p-loop and the arginine-rich region bR1 of GvpD were required for the GvpD-mediated reduction in the amount of GvpE.
A naturally occurring mutation K220T in the pleiotropic activator PrfA of Listeria monocytogenes results in a loss of virulence due to decreasing DNA-binding affinity.	The sequencing of prfA, encoding the transcriptional regulator of virulence genes, in 26 low-virulence field Listeria monocytogenes strains showed that eight strains exhibited the same single amino-acid substitution: PrfAK220T. These strains exhibited no expression of PrfA-regulated proteins and thus no virulence. This substitution inactivated PrfA, since expression of the PrfAK220T mutant gene in an EGDDeltaprfA strain did not restore the haemolytic and phosphatidylcholine phospholipase C activities, in contrast to the wild-type prfA gene. The substitution of the lysine at position 220 occurred in the helix alphaH. However, the data showed that the PrfAK220T protein is dimerized just as well as its wild-type counterpart, but does not bind to PrfA-boxes. PrfAK220T did not form a PrfA-DNA complex in electrophoretic mobility shift assays, but low concentrations of CI complexes (PrfAK220T-RNA polymerase-DNA complex) were formed by adding RNA polymerase, suggesting that PrfA interacted with RNA polymerase in solution in the absence of DNA. Formation of some transcriptionally active complexes was confirmed by in vitro runoff transcription assays and quantitative RT-PCR. Crystallographic analyses described the structure of native PrfA and highlighted the key role of allosteric changes in the activity of PrfA and especially the role of the Lys220 in the conformation of the helix-turn-helix (HTH) motif.
Structural features of target RNA molecules greatly modulate the cleavage efficiency of trans-acting delta ribozymes.	The aim of this work was to shed some more light on factors influencing the effectiveness of delta ribozyme cleavage of structured RNA molecules. An oligoribonucleotide that corresponds to the 3'-terminal region X of HCV RNA and yeast tRNAPhe were used as representative RNA targets. Only a few sites susceptible to ribozyme cleavage were identified in these targets using a combinatorial library of ribozyme variants, in which the region responsible for ribozyme-target interaction was randomized. On the other hand, the targets were fairly accessible for binding of complementary oligonucleotides, as was shown by 6-mer DNA libraries and RNase H approach. Moreover, the specifically acting ribozymes cleaved the targets precisely but with unexpectedly modest efficacy. To explain these observations, six model RNA molecules were designed, in which the same seven nucleotide long sequence recognized by the delta ribozyme was always single stranded but was embedded into different RNA structural context. These molecules were cleaved with differentiated rates, and the corresponding k2 values were in the range of 0.91-0.021 min-1; thus they differed almost 50-fold. This clearly shows that cleavage of structured RNAs might be much slower than cleavage of a short unstructured oligoribonucleotide, despite full accessibility of the targeted regions for hybridization. Restricted possibilities of conformational transitions, which are necessary to occur on the cleavage reaction trajectory, seem to be responsible for these differences. Their magnitude, which was evaluated in this work, should be taken into account while considering the use of delta ribozymes for practical applications.
p63: the phantom of the tumor suppressor.	The last twenty years of research into p53 function has revealed some fascinating discoveries into the orchestration of tumor suppressor pathways with a multitude of putative drug targets being investigated. However, it was not until 1998 that the ancestral mother of p53 was documented. The eldest evolutionary conserved homolog of the p53 family is known today as p63. Originally, it was thought p63 was another tumor suppressor that could function in a similar capacity to p53. However, elegant demonstrations of the divergent roles that p63 plays as a key transcriptional regulator of the proliferation and differentiation cascade in stratified epithelia are documented. These data link deltaNp63alpha to adult tissue stem cell regulation and possibly "cancer stem cells". p63 lacks mutation in cancer development, which is in stark contrast to the classically high mutation status of p53 in a large compendium of cancer types. Perhaps suggesting a selective preference for p53 mutation. Why is p63 rarely mutated despite being part of the same gene family? Interestingly, p63 is often over-expressed and amplified in cancer, thus revealing a paradox. Is p63 required to provide cancer cell populations with a selective advantage as much as a loss of p53 function by mutation? Has p53 been masking a "phantom" with promising features as a target for drug development? Can we exploit the biochemical know how gained from the mass of p53 research to further elucidate deltaNp63alpha gene function? In this review, we will summarise the emerging advances that are elucidating deltaNp63alpha as a promising drug target.
Structural basis for converting a general transcription factor into an operon-specific virulence regulator.	RfaH, a paralog of the general transcription factor NusG, is recruited to elongating RNA polymerase at specific regulatory sites. The X-ray structure of Escherichia coli RfaH reported here reveals two domains. The N-terminal domain displays high similarity to that of NusG. In contrast, the alpha-helical coiled-coil C domain, while retaining sequence similarity, is strikingly different from the beta barrel of NusG. To our knowledge, such an all-beta to all-alpha transition of the entire domain is the most extreme example of protein fold evolution known to date. Both N domains possess a vast hydrophobic cavity that is buried by the C domain in RfaH but is exposed in NusG. We propose that this cavity constitutes the RNA polymerase-binding site, which becomes unmasked in RfaH only upon sequence-specific binding to the nontemplate DNA strand that triggers domain dissociation. Finally, we argue that RfaH binds to the beta' subunit coiled coil, the major target site for the initiation sigma factors.
The structure of the C-terminal KH domains of KSRP reveals a noncanonical motif important for mRNA degradation.	The AU-rich element (ARE) RNA-binding protein KSRP (K-homology splicing regulator protein) contains four KH domains and promotes the degradation of specific mRNAs that encode proteins with functions in cellular proliferation and inflammatory response. The fourth KH domain (KH4) is essential for mRNA recognition and decay but requires the third KH domain (KH3) for its function. We show that KH3 and KH4 behave as independent binding modules and can interact with different regions of the AU-rich RNA targets of KSRP. This provides KSRP with the structural flexibility needed to recognize a set of different targets in the context of their 3'UTR structural settings. Surprisingly, we find that KH4 binds to its target AREs with lower affinity than KH3 and that KSRP's mRNA binding, and mRNA degradation activities are closely associated with a conserved structural element of KH4.
Growth phenotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lasR mutants adapted to the airways of cystic fibrosis patients.	The opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa undergoes genetic change during chronic airway infection of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. One common change is a mutation inactivating lasR, which encodes a transcriptional regulator that responds to a homoserine lactone signal to activate expression of acute virulence factors. Colonies of lasR mutants visibly accumulated the iridescent intercellular signal 4-hydroxy-2-heptylquinoline. Using this colony phenotype, we identified P. aeruginosa lasR mutants that emerged in the airway of a CF patient early during chronic infection, and during growth in the laboratory on a rich medium. The lasR loss-of-function mutations in these strains conferred a growth advantage with particular carbon and nitrogen sources, including amino acids, in part due to increased expression of the catabolic pathway regulator CbrB. This growth phenotype could contribute to selection of lasR mutants both on rich medium and within the CF airway, supporting a key role for bacterial metabolic adaptation during chronic infection. Inactivation of lasR also resulted in increased beta-lactamase activity that increased tolerance to ceftazidime, a widely used beta-lactam antibiotic. Loss of LasR function may represent a marker of an early stage in chronic infection of the CF airway with clinical implications for antibiotic resistance and disease progression.
The BZLF1 protein of EBV has a coiled coil dimerisation domain without a heptad leucine repeat but with homology to the C/EBP leucine zipper.	The EBV transactivator protein BZLF1 can bind many sites in the EBV genome, most of which have homology to a consensus AP-1 site, the binding site for the fos/jun family of transcription factors. Here we present evidence that BZLF1 can also recognise the binding site for the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein C/EBP and that a BZLF1 binding site within the BZLF1 promoter is recognised by the C/EBP protein. Analysis of the BZLF1 DNA binding domain suggests that the BZLF1 protein binds to DNA as a dimer using sequences adjacent to a basic DNA binding motif. The BZLF1 dimerisation domain does not have a heptad repeat of leucine residues common to leucine zipper proteins but does have characteristics of a coiled coil structure, as judged by site directed mutagenesis. We therefore propose that the dimerisation domain of BZLF1 is structurally related to the coiled coil structure of leucine zippers but lacks the highly conserved leucine repeat. We show that the PZLF1 dimerisation domain has residues in common with the C/EBP leucine zipper and discuss the possible implications of this relationship.
The identification of new transcription elements active in Epstein-Barr virus latent gene expression.	The immortalization in vitro of human B cells by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with the expression of a restricted group of nuclear proteins (EBNA). EBNA transcription is driven from either of two mutually exclusive promoters whose modulation is likely to involve an important host/virus interaction. Our experiments on the EBNA transcriptional domain have led us to identify several new transcription elements which are located on the DNA sequence between the two promoters. These elements stimulate the activity of the upstream EBNA promoter by a factor of at least one hundred. One of these elements may also be involved in the in vivo reactivation of EBV in certain cases.
DNA sequence analysis of varicella-zoster virus gene 62 from subclinical infections in healthy children immunized with the Oka varicella vaccine.	A live attenuated varicella vaccine, the Oka vaccine strain (vOka), is routinely administered to children in Japan and other countries, including the United States. vOka consists of a mixture of genotypically distinct variants, but little is known about the growth potential of each variants in vivo. We isolated varicella-zoster virus (VZV) DNA sequences from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of asymptomatic healthy children immunized with the Oka varicella vaccine. VZV gene 62 DNA fragments were detected in 5 of 166 (3.0%) PBMC samples by nested PCR within 5 weeks of the vaccination. Sequence analysis of VZV DNA from these five PBMC samples indicated that multiple viral clones in the vaccine could infect vaccinees and replicate in vivo. We also provide evidence that a nonsynonymous substitution at position 105356 may affect viral replication in vivo.
PDX-1 interaction and regulation of the Pancreatic Derived Factor (PANDER, FAM3B) promoter.	Pancreatic Derived Factor (PANDER) is a novel cytokine-like protein dominantly expressed within the endocrine pancreas. Our previous study demonstrated that the PANDER promoter was both tissue-specific and glucose-responsive. Surrounding the PANDER transcriptional start site are several putative A- and E-Box elements that may bind to the various pancreatic transcriptional factors of MafA, BETA2/NeuroD, and Pancreatic Duodenal Homeobox-1 (PDX-1). To characterize the transcriptional regulatory factors involved in PANDER gene expression, we performed co-transfection reporter gene analysis and demonstrated upregulation by all three transcription factors, with the greatest individual increase stemming from PDX-1. Potential binding of PDX-1 to A box (TAAT) regions of the PANDER promoter was demonstrated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and further corroborated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Binding of PDX-1 to the A box regions was inhibited by mutagenized (TAGT) oligonucleotides. Site-directed mutagenesis of the three PDX-1 A box binding motifs revealed that A box sites 2 and 3 in combination were critical for maximal gene expression and deletion resulted in a 82% reduction in promoter activity. Furthermore, deletion of A box sites 2 and 3 completely diminished the glucose-responsiveness of the PANDER promoter. Our findings demonstrate that PANDER is a potential PDX-1 target gene and the A box sites within the promoter region are critical for basal and glucose-stimulated PANDER expression.
MyoD targets TAF3/TRF3 to activate myogenin transcription.	Skeletal muscle differentiation requires a cascade of transcriptional events to control the spatial and temporal expression of muscle-specific genes. Until recently, muscle-specific transcription was primarily attributed to prototypic enhancer-binding factors, while the role of core promoter recognition complexes in directing myogenesis remained unknown. Here, we report the development of a purified reconstituted system to analyze the properties of a TAF3/TRF3 complex in directing transcription initiation at the Myogenin promoter. Importantly, this new complex is required to replace the canonical TFIID to recapitulate MyoD-dependent activation of Myogenin. In vitro and cell-based assays identify a domain of TAF3 that mediates coactivator functions targeted by MyoD. Our findings also suggest changes to CRSP/Mediator in terminally differentiated myotubes. This switching of the core promoter recognition complex during myogenesis allows a more balanced division of labor between activators and TAF coactivators, thus providing another strategy to accommodate cell-specific regulation during metazoan development.
Genetic analysis of the Salmonella transcription factor HilA.	HilA, a Salmonella transcription factor, activates the invF-1 and prgH promoters through binding to the HilA box, which contains 2 copies of a TTKHAT motif separated by a T centered at -45 relative to the start sites of transcription. The N-terminal 112 amino acids of HilA are similar to winged helix-turn-helix DNA binding/transcription activation domains (wHTH DBDs). The remaining 441 amino acids are not similar in sequence to any other well-characterized transcription factors. Here, we report that the wHTH DBD is essential for activation of both promoters, but amino acids 113-554 are only required for normal activation of invF-1. Some alanine substitutions in the putative alpha loop, which connects the recognition and positioning helices in wHTH DBDs, cause a loss-of-activation phenotype. A hilA allele encoding a protein with an alanine substituted for arginine at position 71 in the alpha loop has a loss-of-activation defect exclusively at the prgH promoter. The results suggest distinct roles for one or more domains formed by amino acids 113-554 and for arginine 71 in activation of the 2 promoters.
Characterization of human UTF1, a chromatin-associated protein with repressor activity expressed in pluripotent cells.	In mice, during early embryonic development UTF1 (undifferentiated embryonic cell transcription factor 1) is expressed in the inner cell mass of blastocysts and in adult animals expression is restricted to the gonads. (Embryonic) Cells expressing UTF1 are generally considered pluripotent, meaning they can differentiate into all cell types of the adult body. In mouse it was shown that UTF1 is tightly associated with chromatin and that it is required for proper differentiation of embryonic carcinoma and embryonic stem cells. In this study we functionally characterized the human UTF1 protein. We show with localization, subnuclear fractionation, and strip-FRAP analyses that human UTF1 is a tightly DNA-associated protein with transcriptional repressor activity. Our data identify human UTF1 as a pluripotency-associated chromatin component with core histone-like characteristics.
Unusual bipartite mode of interaction between the nonsense-mediated decay factors, UPF1 and UPF2.	Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a eukaryotic quality control mechanism that degrades mRNAs carrying premature stop codons. In mammalian cells, NMD is triggered when UPF2 bound to UPF3 on a downstream exon junction complex interacts with UPF1 bound to a stalled ribosome. We report structural studies on the interaction between the C-terminal region of UPF2 and intact UPF1. Crystal structures, confirmed by EM and SAXS, show that the UPF1 CH-domain is docked onto its helicase domain in a fixed configuration. The C-terminal region of UPF2 is natively unfolded but binds through separated alpha-helical and beta-hairpin elements to the UPF1 CH-domain. The alpha-helical region binds sixfold more weakly than the beta-hairpin, whereas the combined elements bind 80-fold more tightly. Cellular assays show that NMD is severely affected by mutations disrupting the beta-hairpin binding, but not by those only affecting alpha-helix binding. We propose that the bipartite mode of UPF2 binding to UPF1 brings the ribosome and the EJC in close proximity by forming a tight complex after an initial weak encounter with either element.
SRY: A transcriptional activator of mammalian testis determination.	Sry (sex-determining region Y) is the sex-determining gene on the mammalian Y chromosome, which encodes a transcription factor containing a DNA-binding domain characteristic of some high mobility group proteins (HMG box). It is the founder member of the Sox (Sry-related HMG box) gene family and is therefore classified in the Sox A group. In mice, the transient expression of Sry between 10.5 and 12.5 dpc triggers the differentiation of Sertoli cells from the supporting cell precursor lineage, which would otherwise give rise to granulosa cells in ovaries. However, little was known about the target genes of SRY and molecular mechanisms how SRY leads to testis development. Recent work has provided evidence that SRY binds directly to a testis-specific enhancer of Sox9 (TES) and activates Sox9 expression in co-operation with steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1). Furthermore, this SRY action is limited to a certain time period during embryogenesis.
NPM3, a member of the nucleophosmin/nucleoplasmin family, enhances activator-dependent transcription.	The chromatin is comprised of repeating subunits that make up the nucleosome which is composed of an octamer of histones: H3, H4, H2A, and H2B. The replication-dependent and -independent nucleosome assembly occurs in an ordered fashion and is aided by cellular proteins such as histone chaperones and chromatin remodelers. Previously, we found that the histone chaperone NPM1 activates transcription from the chromatin template. Here we report that NPM3, a member of the nucleophosmin/nucleoplasmin family, lacks intrinsic histone chaperone activity, inhibits histone assembly activity of NPM1 in vitro, and dramatically enhances transcription in a cellular system.
Comparison of the structures and peptide binding specificities of the BRCT domains of MDC1 and BRCA1.	The tandem BRCT domains of BRCA1 and MDC1 facilitate protein signaling at DNA damage foci through specific interactions with serine-phosphorylated protein partners. The MDC1 BRCT binds pSer-Gln-Glu-Tyr-COO(-) at the C terminus of the histone variant gammaH2AX via direct recognition of the C-terminal carboxylate, while BRCA1 recognizes pSer-X-X-Phe motifs either at C-terminal or internal sites within target proteins. Using fluorescence polarization binding assays, we show that while both BRCTs prefer a free main chain carboxylate at the +3 position, this preference is much more pronounced in MDC1. Crystal structures of BRCA1 and MDC1 bound to tetrapeptide substrates reveal differences in the environment of conserved arginines (Arg1699 in BRCA1 and Arg1933 in MDC1) that determine the relative affinity for peptides with -COO(-) versus -CO-NH(2) termini. A mutation in MDC1 that induces a more BRCA1-like conformation relaxes the binding specificity, allowing the mutant to bind phosphopeptides lacking a -COO(-) terminus.
Characterization of the betaherpesviral pUL69 protein family reveals binding of the cellular mRNA export factor UAP56 as a prerequisite for stimulation of nuclear mRNA export and for efficient viral replication.	UL69 of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) encodes a pleiotropic transactivator protein and has a counterpart in every member of the Herpesviridae family thus far sequenced. However, little is known about the conservation of the functions of the nuclear phosphoprotein pUL69 in the homologous proteins of other betaherpesviruses. Therefore, eukaryotic expression vectors were constructed for pC69 of chimpanzee cytomegalovirus, pRh69 of rhesus cytomegalovirus, pM69 of murine cytomegalovirus, pU42 of human herpesvirus 6, and pU42 of elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus. Indirect immunofluorescence experiments showed that all pUL69 homologs expressed by these vectors were localized to the cell nucleus. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments identified homodimerization as a conserved feature of all homologs, whereas heterodimerization with pUL69 was restricted to its closer relatives. Further analyses demonstrated that pC69 and pRh69 were the only two homologs that functioned, like pUL69, as viral-mRNA export factors. As we had reported recently that nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and interaction with the cellular DExD/H-box helicases UAP56 and URH49 were prerequisites for the nuclear-mRNA export activity of pUL69, the homologs were characterized with regard to these properties. Heterokaryon assays demonstrated nucleocytoplasmic shuttling for all homologs, and coimmunoprecipitation and mRNA export assays revealed that the interaction of UAP56 and/or URH49 with pC69 or pRh69 was required for mRNA export activity. Moreover, characterization of HCMV recombinants harboring mutations within the N-terminal sequence of pUL69 revealed a strong replication defect of viruses expressing pUL69 variants that were deficient in UAP56 binding. In summary, homodimerization and nucleocytoplasmic shuttling activity were identified as conserved features of betaherpesviral pUL69 homologs. UAP56 binding was shown to represent a unique characteristic of members of the genus Cytomegalovirus that is required for efficient replication of HCMV.
Structural basis for the recognition of cellular mRNA export factor REF by herpes viral proteins HSV-1 ICP27 and HVS ORF57.	The herpesvirus proteins HSV-1 ICP27 and HVS ORF57 promote viral mRNA export by utilizing the cellular mRNA export machinery. This function is triggered by binding to proteins of the transcription-export (TREX) complex, in particular to REF/Aly which directs viral mRNA to the TAP/NFX1 pathway and, subsequently, to the nuclear pore for export to the cytoplasm. Here we have determined the structure of the REF-ICP27 interaction interface at atomic-resolution and provided a detailed comparison of the binding interfaces between ICP27, ORF57 and REF using solution-state NMR. Despite the absence of any obvious sequence similarity, both viral proteins bind on the same site of the folded RRM domain of REF, via short but specific recognition sites. The regions of ICP27 and ORF57 involved in binding by REF have been mapped as residues 104-112 and 103-120, respectively. We have identified the pattern of residues critical for REF/Aly recognition, common to both ICP27 and ORF57. The importance of the key amino acid residues within these binding sites was confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis. The functional significance of the ORF57-REF/Aly interaction was also probed using an ex vivo cytoplasmic viral mRNA accumulation assay and this revealed that mutants that reduce the protein-protein interaction dramatically decrease the ability of ORF57 to mediate the nuclear export of intronless viral mRNA. Together these data precisely map amino acid residues responsible for the direct interactions between viral adaptors and cellular REF/Aly and provide the first molecular details of how herpes viruses access the cellular mRNA export pathway.
Transcriptional regulation by the dedicated nitric oxide sensor, NorR: a route towards NO detoxification.	A flavorubredoxin and its associated oxidoreductase (encoded by norV and norW respectively) detoxify NO (nitric oxide) to form N2O (nitrous oxide) under anaerobic conditions in Escherichia coli. Transcription of the norVW genes is activated in response to NO by the 54-dependent regulator and dedicated NO sensor, NorR, a member of the bacterial enhancer-binding protein family. In the absence of NO, the catalytic activity of the central ATPase domain of NorR is repressed by the N-terminal regulatory domain that contains a non-haem iron centre. Binding of NO to this centre results in the formation of a mononitrosyl iron species, enabling the activation of ATPase activity. Our studies suggest that the highly conserved GAFTGA loop in the ATPase domain, which engages with the alternative  factor 54 to activate transcription, is a target for intramolecular repression by the regulatory domain. Binding of NorR to three conserved enhancer sites upstream of the norVW promoter is essential for transcriptional activation and promotes the formation of a stable higher-order NorR nucleoprotein complex. We propose that enhancer-driven assembly of this oligomeric complex, in which NorR apparently forms a DNA-bound hexamer in the absence of NO, provides a 'poised' system for transcriptional activation that can respond rapidly to nitrosative stress.
Characterization of nuclear localization signals in the type III effectors HsvG and HsvB of the gall-forming bacterium Pantoea agglomerans.	HsvG and HsvB, two paralogous type III effectors of the gall-forming bacteria Pantoea agglomerans pv. gypsophilae and P. agglomerans pv. betae, determine host specificity on gypsophila and beet, respectively. They were previously shown to be DNA-binding proteins imported into host and non-host nuclei and might act as transcriptional activators. Sequence analysis of these effectors did not detect canonical nuclear localization signals (NLSs), but two basic amino acid clusters designated putative NLS1 and NLS2 were detected in their N-terminal and C-terminal regions, respectively. pNIA assay for nuclear import in yeast and bombardment of melon leaves with each of the NLSs fused to a 2xYFP reporter indicated that putative NLS1 and NLS2 were functional in transport of HsvG into the nucleus. A yeast two-hybrid assay showed that HsvB, HsvG, putative NLS1, putative NLS2, HsvG converted into HsvB, or HsvB converted into HsvG by exchanging the repeat domain, all interacted with AtKAP- and importin-3 of Arabidopsis thaliana. Deletion analysis of the NLS domains in HsvG suggested that putative NLS1 or NLS2 were required for pathogenicity on gypsophila cuttings and presumably for import of HsvG into the nucleus. This study demonstrates the presence of two functional NLSs in the type III effectors HsvG and HsvB.
RB regulates pancreas development by stabilizing Pdx1.	RB is a key substrate of Cdks and an important regulator of the mammalian cell cycle. RB either represses E2Fs that promote cell proliferation or enhances the activity of cell-specific factors that promote differentiation, although the mechanism that facilitates this dual interaction is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that RB associates with and stabilizes pancreatic duodenal homeobox-1 (Pdx-1) that is essential for embryonic pancreas development and adult -cell function. Interestingly, Pdx-1 utilizes a conserved RB-interaction motif (RIM) that is also present in E2Fs. Point mutations within the RIM reduce RB-Pdx-1 complex formation, destabilize Pdx-1 and promote its proteasomal degradation. Glucose regulates RB and Pdx-1 levels, RB/Pdx-1 complex formation and Pdx-1 degradation. RB occupies the promoters of -cell-specific genes, and knockdown of RB results in reduced expression of Pdx-1 and its target genes. Further, RB-deficiency in vivo results in reduced pancreas size due to decreased proliferation of Pdx-1(+) pancreatic progenitors, increased apoptosis and aberrant expression of regulators of pancreatic development. These results demonstrate an unanticipated regulatory mechanism for pancreatic development and -cell function, which involves RB-mediated stabilization of the pancreas-specific transcription factor Pdx-1.
Assembly of custom TALE-type DNA binding domains by modular cloning.	Transcription activator-like effector (TALE) DNA binding proteins show tremendous potential as molecular tools for targeted binding to any desired DNA sequence. Their DNA binding domain consists of tandem arranged repeats, and due to this repetitive structure it is challenging to generate designer TALEs (dTALEs) with user-defined specificity. We present a cloning approach that facilitates the assembly of multiple repeat-encoding DNA fragments that translate into dTALEs with pre-defined DNA binding specificity. This method makes use of type IIS restriction enzymes in two sequential cut-ligase reactions to build dTALE repeat arrays. We employed this modular approach for generation of a dTALE that differentiates between two highly similar DNA sequences that are both targeted by the Xanthomonas TALE, AvrBs3. These data show that this modular assembly system allows rapid generation of highly specific TALE-type DNA binding domains that target binding sites of predefined length and sequence. This approach enables the rapid and flexible production of dTALEs for gene regulation and genome editing in routine and high-throughput applications.
Gain of function of mutant p53 by coaggregation with multiple tumor suppressors.	Many p53 missense mutations possess dominant-negative activity and oncogenic gain of function. We report that for structurally destabilized p53 mutants, these effects result from mutant-induced coaggregation of wild-type p53 and its paralogs p63 and p73, thereby also inducing a heat-shock response. Aggregation of mutant p53 resulted from self-assembly of a conserved aggregation-nucleating sequence within the hydrophobic core of the DNA-binding domain, which becomes exposed after mutation. Suppressing the aggregation propensity of this sequence by mutagenesis abrogated gain of function and restored activity of wild-type p53 and its paralogs. In the p53 germline mutation database, tumors carrying aggregation-prone p53 mutations have a significantly lower frequency of wild-type allele loss as compared to tumors harboring nonaggregating mutations, suggesting a difference in clonal selection of aggregating mutants. Overall, our study reveals a novel disease mechanism for mutant p53 gain of function and suggests that, at least in some respects, cancer could be considered an aggregation-associated disease.
Can AtTZF1 act as a transcriptional activator or repressor in plants?	In animals, Tandem CCCH Zinc Finger (TZF) proteins can affect gene expression at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. In Arabidopsis thaliana, AtTZF1 is a member of the TZF family characterized by a plant-unique tandem zinc finger motif. AtTZF1 can bind both DNA and RNA in vitro, and it can traffic between the nucleus and cytoplasmic foci. However, no in vivo DNA/RNA targets have been identified so far, and little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying AtTZF1's profound effects on plant growth, development, and stress responses. In order to determine whether AtTZF1 can function as a transcription factor, transactivation assays were conducted. Results indicated that AtTZF1 fusion proteins could not exert obvious transcriptional activity in a maize protoplast transient expression system. However, this conclusion might be biased due to poor nuclear localization of AtTZF1 fusion proteins in the assay system.
Structures of p63 DNA binding domain in complexes with half-site and with spacer-containing full response elements.	Transcription factor p63, a p53 family member, plays a role in epithelial cell development, cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and tumorigenesis. Point mutations, primarily in the DNA binding domain (p63DBD), lead to malformation syndromes. To gain insight into differences between p63 and p53 and the impact of mutations on the structure, we have determined two crystal structures of p63DBD in complex with A/T-rich response elements. One complex contains a 10-bp DNA half-site response element (5'AAACATGTTT3') and the other contains a 22-bp DNA full response element with a 2-bp spacer between two half-sites (5'AAACATGTTTTAAAACATGTTT3'). In both structures, each half-site binds a p63DBD dimer. The two p63DBD dimers do not interact in the presence of the DNA spacer, whereas they interact with one another in the p63DBD/10-bp complex where the DNA simulates a full response element by packing end-to-end. A unique dimer-dimer interaction involves a variable loop region, which differs in length and sequence from the counterpart loop of p53DBD. The DNA trajectories in both structures assume superhelical conformations. Surface plasmon resonance studies of p63DBD/DNA binding yielded K(d) = 11.7 M for a continuous full response element, whereas binding was undetectable with the 22-bp DNA, suggesting an important contribution of a p63DBD interdimer interface to binding and establishing that p63DBD affinity to the response element is approximately 1,000-fold lower than that of p53DBD. Analyses of the structural consequences of p63DBD mutations that cause developmental defects show that, although some mutations affect DNA binding directly, the majority affects protein stability.
MDC1 is ubiquitylated on its tandem BRCT domain and directly binds RAP80 in a UBC13-dependent manner.	The cellular response to DNA damage is essential for maintenance of genomic stability. MDC1 is a key member of the DNA damage response. It is an adaptor protein that binds and recruits proteins to sites of DNA damage, a crucial step for a proper response. MDC1 contains several protein-protein interacting modules, including a tandem BRCT domain that mediates various interactions involving MDC1. Here we demonstrate that MDC1 binds directly to RAP80, which is a DNA damage response protein that recruits BRCA1 to sites of damage. The interaction between MDC1 and RAP80 requires the tandem BRCT domain of MDC1 and the ubiquitin-interacting motifs of RAP80. Moreover, the interaction depends on UBC13, an E2 ubiquitin ligase that catalyzes K63-linked poly-ubiquitin chain formation. The results highly propose that the interaction between MDC1 and RAP80 depends on a ubiquitylation event, which we found to take place on K-1977 of MDC1. This study provides the first evidence that interactions involving MDC1 can be regulated by ubiquitylation.
Molecular and cellular correlates of the CIITA-mediated inhibition of HTLV-2 Tax-2 transactivator function resulting in loss of viral replication.	MHC class II transactivator CIITA inhibits the function of HTLV-2 Tax-2 viral transactivator and, consequently, the replication of the virus in infected cells. Moreover overexpression of the nuclear factor NF-YB, that cooperates with CIITA for the expression of MHC class II genes, results also in inhibition of Tax-2 transactivation. The purpose of this investigation was to assess the cellular and molecular basis of the CIITA-mediated inhibition on Tax-2, and the relative role of NF-YB in this phenomenon.
The  subunit gate loop is required for RNA polymerase modification by RfaH and NusG.	In all organisms, RNA polymerase (RNAP) relies on accessory factors to complete synthesis of long RNAs. These factors increase RNAP processivity by reducing pausing and termination, but their molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. We identify the  gate loop as an RNAP element required for antipausing activity of a bacterial virulence factor RfaH, a member of the universally conserved NusG family. Interactions with the gate loop are necessary for suppression of pausing and termination by RfaH, but are dispensable for RfaH binding to RNAP mediated by the ' clamp helices. We hypothesize that upon binding to the clamp helices and the gate loop RfaH bridges the gap across the DNA channel, stabilizing RNAP contacts with nucleic acid and disfavoring isomerization into a paused state. We show that contacts with the gate loop are also required for antipausing by NusG and propose that most NusG homologs use similar mechanisms to increase RNAP processivity.
Smooth muscle phenotypic diversity is mediated through alterations in myocardin gene splicing.	Myocardin (MYOCD) is a smooth and cardiac muscle-specific transcriptional coactivator that is required for the proper expression of contraction-related genes. Through its function to transactivate effector genes, MYOCD plays an essential role in mediating the switch between contractile and non-contractile phenotypes, particularly in smooth muscle cells (SMC). There are at least two known transcript variants of MYOCD that are expressed in SMC, differing only by the presence (+) or absence () of Exon 11. To date, no functional role has been assigned to the domain encoded by Exon 11, nor have any notable differences between the ability of each isoform to activate contraction-related genes been observed. In this study we compared sequences for Exon 11 among several mammalian species and identified a highly conserved, putative target sequence for glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) phosphorylation, suggesting a regulatory role for Exon 11 that can be modulated by alternative splicing. The function of Exon 11 was investigated by altering MYOCD splice selection in cultured porcine SMC with small interfering RNAs (siRNA) and specific chemical inhibitors, resulting in a relative increase in expression of Exon 11 variants in the endogenous pool of MYOCD mRNA. The relative increase in Exon 11 mRNAs correlated with a reduction of contractile phenotype in the porcine SMC as evidenced by morphological assessment and molecular analysis of effector genes. Together, these data suggest that MYOCD Exon 11 may participate in modulating SMC phenotype, potentially acting as a dominant-negative repressor of contraction-related genes.
Three dimensional model for N-terminal A domain of DmpR (2-dimethylphenol) protein based on secondary structure prediction and fold recognition.	DmpR (dimethylphenol regulatory protein) is a member of the NtrC family of transcriptional activators and controls the transcription of the dmp operons in response to aromatic effector compounds. Secondary structure and fold recognition prediction of N-terminal A domain of this protein (210 amino acid) was performed in Genesilico Metaserver and 3DJury. The consensus result from these servers suggested MJ_1460 as a template. Three dimensional structures were generated from the sequence structure alignments of the template and target protein with MODELLER. The results suggested that the N-terminal A domain of DmpR belongs to Muramoyl pentapeptide carboxypeptidase domain family. The binding interaction sites of the known effectors were predicted using protein-ligand docking. The proposed active site of N-terminal A domain of DmpR comprises of key residues such as Phe93, Glu127, Phe132, Ser160, Phe163, Met164, Arg166 and Pro189. The findings provide some direction to the experimental studies that aim to broaden the range of phenolic derivative which can be sensed by N-DmpR in order to improve the biodegradation potential.
Sequence discrimination by DNA-binding domain of ETS family transcription factor PU.1 is linked to specific hydration of protein-DNA interface.	PU.1 is an essential transcription factor in normal hematopoietic lineage development. It recognizes a large number of promoter sites differing only in bases flanking a core consensus of 5'-GGAA-3'. DNA binding is mediated by its ETS domain, whose sequence selectivity directly corresponds to the transactivational activity and frequency of binding sites for full-length PU.1 in vivo. To better understand the basis of sequence discrimination, we characterized its binding properties to a high affinity and low affinity site. Despite sharing a homologous structural framework as confirmed by DNase I and hydroxyl radical footprinting, the two complexes exhibit striking heterogeneity in terms of hydration properties. High affinity binding is destabilized by osmotic stress, whereas low affinity binding is insensitive. Dimethyl sulfate footprinting showed that the major groove at the core consensus is protected in the high affinity complex but accessible in the low affinity one. Finally, destabilization of low affinity binding by salt is in quantitative agreement with the number of phosphate contacts but is substantially attenuated in high affinity binding. These observations support a mechanism of sequence discrimination wherein specifically bound water molecules couple flanking backbone contacts with base-specific interactions in a sequestered cavity at the core consensus. The implications of this model with respect to other ETS paralogs are discussed.
A conserved N-terminal domain mediates required DNA replication activities and phosphorylation of the transcriptional activator IE1 of Autographa californica multicapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus.	IE1 is the principal transcriptional regulator of the baculoviruses. Like multifunctional transcription factors of other large DNA viruses, IE1 is an essential, site-specific DNA-binding phosphoprotein that activates virus gene expression and promotes genome replication. To define the poorly understood mechanisms by which IE1 achieves its diverse functions, we identified IE1 domains that contribute to productive infection of Autographa californica multicapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV), the baculovirus prototype. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the N-terminal 23 residues of IE1 are required for origin-specific DNA replication and AcMNPV propagation, but not for DNA-binding-dependent transcriptional activation. Within this defined replication domain, we identified an invariant TPXR/H motif that resembles a consensus cyclin-dependent kinase phosphorylation site. Amino acid substitutions of potential phosphorylation sites within or near this motif caused loss of IE1-mediated DNA replication activity. Remarkably, substitution of the single threonine (residue 15) within the TPXR/H motif caused complete loss of AcMNPV multiplication. The replication domain was required for IE1 phosphorylation. It was also sufficient for conferring phosphorylation of a heterologous protein. Importantly, IE1 hyperphosphorylation coincided exclusively with AcMNPV DNA replication. The temporal regulation of IE1 phosphorylation and the essential nature of the TPXR/H motif suggest that phosphorylation critically alters and possibly activates DNA replication activity of IE1 during infection. The striking conservation of the TPXR/H motif among IE1 proteins further suggests that this molecular switch may be a common mechanism by which the alphabaculoviruses coordinate DNA replication and gene expression by using a single regulator.
Effect of DNA binding on geminate CO recombination kinetics in CO-sensing transcription factor CooA.	Carbon monoxide oxidation activator (CooA) proteins are heme-based CO-sensing transcription factors. Here we study the ultrafast dynamics of geminate CO rebinding in two CooA homologues, Rhodospirillum rubrum (RrCooA) and Carboxydothermus hydrogenoformans (ChCooA). The effects of DNA binding and the truncation of the DNA-binding domain on the CO geminate recombination kinetics were specifically investigated. The CO rebinding kinetics in these CooA complexes take place on ultrafast time scales but remain non-exponential over many decades in time. We show that this non-exponential kinetic response is due to a quenched enthalpic barrier distribution resulting from a distribution of heme geometries that is frozen or slowly evolving on the time scale of CO rebinding. We also show that, upon CO binding, the distal pocket of the heme in the CooA proteins relaxes to form a very efficient hydrophobic trap for CO. DNA binding further tightens the narrow distal pocket and slightly weakens the iron-proximal histidine bond. Comparison of the CO rebinding kinetics of RrCooA, truncated RrCooA, and DNA-bound RrCooA proteins reveals that the uncomplexed and inherently flexible DNA-binding domain adds additional structural heterogeneity to the heme doming coordinate. When CooA forms a complex with DNA, the flexibility of the DNA-binding domain decreases, and the distribution of the conformations available in the heme domain becomes restricted. The kinetic studies also offer insights into how the architecture of the heme environment can tune entropic barriers in order to control the geminate recombination of CO in heme proteins, whereas spin selection rules play a minor or non-existent role.
The Ighmbp2 helicase structure reveals the molecular basis for disease-causing mutations in DMSA1.	Mutations in immunoglobulin -binding protein 2 (Ighmbp2) cause distal spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (DSMA1), an autosomal recessive disease that is clinically characterized by distal limb weakness and respiratory distress. However, despite extensive studies, the mechanism of disease-causing mutations remains elusive. Here we report the crystal structures of the Ighmbp2 helicase core with and without bound RNA. The structures show that the overall fold of Ighmbp2 is very similar to that of Upf1, a key helicase involved in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Similar to Upf1, domains 1B and 1C of Ighmbp2 undergo large conformational changes in response to RNA binding, rotating 30 and 10, respectively. The RNA binding and ATPase activities of Ighmbp2 are further enhanced by the R3H domain, located just downstream of the helicase core. Mapping of the pathogenic mutations of DSMA1 onto the helicase core structure provides a molecular basis for understanding the disease-causing consequences of Ighmbp2 mutations.
Pro-apoptotic or anti-apoptotic property of X protein of hepatitis B virus is determined by phosphorylation at Ser31 by Akt.	The X protein of hepatitis B virus (HBx) has been specifically implicated in either pro-apoptotic or anti-apoptotic activity in an experimental system, but the underlying mechanism is yet uncertain. Activations of survival and proliferation signaling pathways appear to account partly for its anti-apoptotic property. Change in mitochondrial membrane potential may be responsible for its apoptotic property. In this study, we isolated two HBx isoforms from an HBV carrier, one of which contains Akt phosphorylation site at Ser31 and functions as an anti-apoptotic protein (designated HBx-S31). The other does not contain Akt phosphorylation site and functions as an apoptotic protein (designated HBx-L31). HBx-S31 can activate Akt, whereas HBx-L31 cannot; the former enhances tumor growth, whereas the latter suppresses tumorigenesis. Our study provides evidence that HBx plays dual roles, namely pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic, through different isoforms in which HBx with Ser31 transduces survival signal.
Structural insight of a concentration-dependent mechanism by which YdiV inhibits Escherichia coli flagellum biogenesis and motility.	YdiV is a negative regulator of cell motility. It interacts with FlhD(4)C(2) complex, a product of flagellar master operon, which works as the transcription activator of all other flagellar operons. Here, we report the crystal structures of YdiV and YdiV(2)-FlhD(2) complex at 1.9  and 2.9  resolutions, respectively. Interestingly, YdiV formed multiple types of complexes with FlhD(4)C(2). YdiV(1)-FlhD(4)C(2) and YdiV(2)-FlhD(4)C(2) still bound to DNA, while YdiV(3)-FlhD(4)C(2) and YdiV(4)-FlhD(4)C(2) did not. DNA bound FlhD(4)C(2) through wrapping around the FlhC subunit rather than the FlhD subunit. Structural analysis showed that only two peripheral FlhD subunits were accessible for YdiV binding, forming the YdiV(2)-FlhD(4)C(2) complex without affecting the integrity of ring-like structure. YdiV(2)-FlhD(2) structure and the negative staining electron microscopy reconstruction of YdiV(4)-FlhD(4)C(2) suggested that the third and fourth YdiV molecule bound to the FlhD(4)C(2) complex through squeezing into the ring-like structure of FlhD(4)C(2) between the two internal D subunits. Consequently, the ring-like structure opened up, and the complex lost DNA-binding ability. Thus, YdiV inhibits FlhD(4)C(2) only at relatively high concentrations.
Differential functions of C- and N-terminal hepatitis B x protein in liver cells treated with doxorubicin in normoxic or hypoxic condition.	Hepatitis viral B x protein (HBx), a hepatocarcinogen, is frequently mutated. Hypoxia influences the growth of HCC and also the sensitivity of tumor cells to treatments. We aimed to test the role of HBx and acute hypoxia in the efficacy of chemotherapy. In this study, we established 4 Chang liver cell lines with the full-length HBx (HBx), the first 50 amino acids of N-terminal HBx (HBx/50), the last 104 amino acids of C-terminal HBx (HBx/51) and empty vector (CL), respectively. MTT and TNUEL assays were used to assess cell viability and apoptosis respectively. Western blot was used to determine the expression of relevant proteins. Results showed that among 4 cell lines, doxorubicin was most effective in decreasing the viability and enhancing apoptosis in HBx/51 cells, while HBx/50 cells were most resistant to the treatment. Cells in hypoxia were more susceptible to doxorubicin than cells in normoxia. Hypoxia facilitated the Bid cleavage especially in HBx/51 cells via phosphorylating p38 MAPK. p38 MAPK inhibitor significantly reduced the tBid level and increased cell viability. In conclusion, N-terminal HBx and C-terminal HBx function differentially in their ability to regulate cell growth, with the former being promotive but the latter being inhibitory. The acute hypoxia may overcome the HBx-induced resistance and facilitate the chemotherapy.
The pneumococcal MgaSpn virulence transcriptional regulator generates multimeric complexes on linear double-stranded DNA.	The MgaSpn transcriptional regulator contributes to the virulence of Streptococcus pneumoniae. It is thought to be a member of the Mga/AtxA family of global regulators. MgaSpn was shown to activate in vivo the P1623B promoter, which is divergent from the promoter (Pmga) of its own gene. This activation required a 70-bp region (PB activation region) located between both promoters. In this work, we purified an untagged form of the MgaSpn protein, which formed dimers in solution. By gel retardation and footprinting assays, we analysed the binding of MgaSpn to linear double-stranded DNAs. MgaSpn interacted with the PB activation region when it was placed at internal position on the DNA. However, when it was positioned at one DNA end, MgaSpn recognized preferentially the Pmga promoter placed at internal position. In both cases, and on binding to the primary site, MgaSpn spread along the adjacent DNA regions generating multimeric protein-DNA complexes. When both MgaSpn-binding sites were located at internal positions on longer DNAs, electron microscopy experiments demonstrated that the PB activation region was the preferred target. DNA molecules totally or partially covered by MgaSpn were also visualized. Our results suggest that MgaSpn might recognize particular DNA conformations to achieve DNA-binding specificity. 
A mathematical model and quantitative comparison of the small RNA circuit in the Vibrio harveyi and Vibrio cholerae quorum sensing systems.	Quorum sensing is the process by which bacteria regulate their gene expression based on the local cell-population density. The quorum sensing systems of Vibrio harveyi and Vibrio cholerae are comprised of a phosphorelay cascade coupled to a small RNA (sRNA) circuit. The sRNA circuit contains multiple quorum regulated small RNA (Qrr) that regulate expression of the homologous master transcriptional regulators LuxR (in V. harveyi) and HapR (in V. cholerae). Their quorum sensing systems are topologically similar and homologous thereby making it difficult to understand why repression of HapR is more robust than LuxR to changes in Qrr. In this work we formulate and parameterize a novel mathematical model of the V. harveyi and V. cholerae sRNA circuit. We parameterize the model by fitting it to a variety of empirical data from both species. We show that we can distinguish all of the parameters and that the parameterizations (one for each species) are robust to errors in the data. We then use our model to propose some experiments to identify and explain kinetic differences between the species. We find that V. cholerae Qrr are more abundant and more sensitive to changes in LuxO than V. harveyi Qrr and argue that this is why expression of HapR is more robust than LuxR to changes in Qrr. 
Complex structure of the DNA-binding domain of AdpA, the global transcription factor in Streptomyces griseus, and a target duplex DNA reveals the structural basis of its tolerant DNA sequence specificity.	AdpA serves as the global transcription factor in the A-factor regulatory cascade, controlling the secondary metabolism and morphological differentiation of the filamentous bacterium Streptomyces griseus. AdpA binds to over 500 operator regions with the consensus sequence 5'-TGGCSNGWWY-3' (where S is G or C, W is A or T, Y is T or C, and N is any nucleotide). However, it is still obscure how AdpA can control hundreds of genes. To elucidate the structural basis of this tolerant DNA recognition by AdpA, we focused on the interaction between the DNA-binding domain of AdpA (AdpA-DBD), which consists of two helix-turn-helix motifs, and a target duplex DNA containing the consensus sequence 5'-TGGCGGGTTC-3'. The crystal structure of the AdpA-DBD-DNA complex and the mutant analysis of AdpA-DBD revealed its unique manner of DNA recognition, whereby only two arginine residues directly recognize the consensus sequence, explaining the strict recognition of G and C at positions 2 and 4, respectively, and the tolerant recognition of other positions of the consensus sequence. AdpA-DBD confers tolerant DNA sequence specificity to AdpA, allowing it to control hundreds of genes as a global transcription factor. 
Synthetic TAL effectors for targeted enhancement of transgene expression in plants.	Transcription activator-like effectors (TALEs), secreted by the pathogenic bacteria Xanthomonas, specifically activate expression of targeted genes in plants. Here, we designed synthetic TALEs that bind to the flanking regions of the TATA-box motif on the CaMV 35S promoter for the purpose of understanding the engineerable 'hot-spots' for increasing transgene expression. We demonstrated that transient expression of de novo-engineered TALEs using agroinfiltration could significantly increase reporter gene expression in stable transgenic tobacco expressing the orange fluorescent protein reporter gene pporRFP under the control of synthetic inducible, minimal or full-length 35S promoters. Moreover, the additive effects of a combination of two different synthetic TALEs could significantly enhance the activation effects of TALEs on reporter gene expression more than when each TALE was used individually. We also studied the effects of the C-terminal domain and the activation domain of synthetic TALEs, as well as the best 'hot-spots' on the 35S promoter on targeted transgene activation. Furthermore, TALE activation of the Arabidopsis MYB transcription factor AtPAP1 (PRODUCTION OF ANTHOCYANIN PIGMENT 1) in stable transgenic tobacco gave rise to a dark purple colour on infiltrated leaves when driven by four copies of cis-regulatory elements of pathogenesis-related gene (PR1) with enhancer motifs B and A1 from the 35S promoter. These results provide novel insights into the potential applications of synthetic TALEs for targeted gene activation of transgenes in plants. 
Conformational elasticity can facilitate TALE-DNA recognition.	Sequence-programmable transcription activator-like effector (TALE) proteins have emerged as a highly efficient tool for genome engineering. Recent crystal structures depict a transition between an open unbound solenoid and more compact DNA-bound solenoid formed by the 34 amino acid repeats. How TALEs switch conformation between these two forms without substantial energetic compensation, and how the repeat-variable di-residues (RVDs) discriminate between the cognate base and other bases still remain unclear. Computational analysis on these two aspects of TALE-DNA interaction mechanism has been conducted in order to achieve a better understanding of the energetics. High elasticity was observed in the molecular dynamics simulations of DNA-free TALE structure that started from the bound conformation where it sampled a wide range of conformations including the experimentally determined apo and bound conformations. This elastic feature was also observed in the simulations starting from the apo form which suggests low free energy barrier between the two conformations and small compensation required upon binding. To analyze binding specificity, we performed free energy calculations of various combinations of RVDs and bases using Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (PBSA) and other approaches. The PBSA calculations indicated that the native RVD-base structures had lower binding free energy than mismatched structures for most of the RVDs examined. Our theoretical analyses provided new insight on the dynamics and energetics of TALE-DNA binding mechanism. 
Roles of cell division control factor SdiA: recognition of quorum sensing signals and modulation of transcription regulation targets.	In Gram-negative bacteria, N-acylhomoserine lactone (HSL) is used as a signal in cell-cell communication and quorum sensing (QS). The model prokaryote Escherichia coli lacks the system of HSL synthesis, but is capable of monitoring HSL signals in environment. Transcription factor SdiA for cell division control is believed to play a role as a HSL sensor. Using a collection of 477 species of chemically synthesized HSL analogues, we identified three synthetic signal molecules (SSMs) that bind in vitro to purified SdiA. After SELEX-chip screening of SdiA-binding DNA sequences, a striking difference was found between these SSMs in the pattern of regulation target genes on the E.coli genome. Based on Northern blot analysis in vivo, a set of target genes were found to be repressed by SdiA in the absence of effectors and derepressed by the addition of SSMs. Another set of genes were, however, expressed in the absence of effector ligands but repressed by the addition of SSMs. Taken together, we propose that the spectrum of taget gene selection by SdiA is modulated in multiple modes depending on the interacting HSL-like signal molecules. 
Enzymatic and metabolic engineering for efficient production of syringin, sinapyl alcohol 4-O-glucoside, in Arabidopsis thaliana.	To promote efficient production of syringin, a plant-derived bioactive monolignol glucoside, synergistic effects of enzymatic and metabolic engineering were combined. Recombinant UGT72E3/E2 chimeras, generated by exchanging parts of the C-terminal domain including the Putative Secondary Plant Glycosyltransferase (PSPG) motif of UGT72E3 and UGT72E2, were expressed in leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis plants; syringin production was measured in vivo and by enzymatic assays in vitro. In both tests, UGT72E3/2 displayed substrate specificity for sinapyl alcohol like the parental enzyme UGT72E3, and the syringin production was significantly increased compared to UGT72E3. In particular, in the in vitro assay, which was performed in the presence of a high concentration of sinapyl alcohol, the production of syringin by UGT72E3/2 was 4-fold higher than by UGT72E3. Furthermore, to enhance metabolic flow through the phenylpropanoid pathway and maintain a high basal concentration of sinapyl alcohol in the leaves, UGT72E3/2 was combined with the sinapyl alcohol synthesis pathway gene F5H encoding ferulate 5-hydroxylase and the lignin biosynthesis transcriptional activator MYB58. The resulting UGT72E3/2+F5H+MYB58 OE plants, which simultaneously overexpress these three genes, accumulated a 56-fold higher level of syringin in their leaves than wild-type plants. 
Characterization of essential domains for the functionality of the MHBst transcriptional activator and identification of a minimal MHBst activator.	Integrated hepatitis B virus DNA derived from hepatocellular carcinomas can express, in one third of the cases investigated so far, a transcriptional activator encoded from 3' terminal truncated surface (preS/S) genes resulting in a C-terminally truncated middle surface protein (MHBst). Since MHBst, in contrast to the secreted MHBs, is retained in the secretory pathway at the ER, the question as to whether the retention generates the transcriptional activator function was investigated. Through fusion of MHBs to the ER-retention signal KDEL, it was shown that the intracellular retention does not generate the transcriptional activator function. Tryptic digestions of microsomal vesicles revealed that the amino terminal domain of MHBst directs into the cytoplasmic compartment, whereas in MHBs this domain directs into the lumen of the ER. This structural difference appears to be why transcriptional activator function arises. Through deletion analysis it was shown that non-membrane-associated MHBst proteins are also functional activators. Nonmembrane associated MHBst proteins represent a second class of MHBst proteins. These MHBst-proteins are homogenously distributed all over the cell and show no difference in functionality as compared to the membrane-associated MHBst proteins. MHBst53 (truncated at aa53) was shown to be a minimal activator of this class. Both classes of MHBst proteins were found to form dimers; an which is involved in mediating the dimerization. The integrity of this domain was also revealed to be a prerequisite for the functionality of the activator, suggesting a linkage between dimerization and functionality.
The viral oncoproteins Ad5 E1A, HPV16 E7 and SV40 TAg bind a common region of the TBP-associated factor-110.	A function shared by the adenovirus E1A, papillomavirus E7 and SV40 TAg oncoproteins is their ability to interfere with normal cell growth by interacting with members of the retinoblastoma protein family. In this study, we show that each of these oncoproteins can also bind to the 921 amino acid TBP-associated factor-110 (TAF-110). The significance of the binding is underscored by the observation that each oncoprotein binds to the same 77 amino acid carboxyl region of TAF-110. In the case of E1A and TAg, this finding is consistent with their abilities to stimulate transcription initiation, in part, through their known interactions with TBP. While it is not clear whether E7 can also activate promoters through protein:protein interactions with components of the transcription initiation complex, our demonstration that E7 can bind to TAF-110, as well as TBP, suggests that E7 may modulate the expression of specific promoters which could contribute to the pathogenesis of human papillomavirus.
Yeast global transcriptional regulators Sin4 and Rgr1 are components of mediator complex/RNA polymerase II holoenzyme.	Sin4 and Rgr1 proteins, previously shown by genetic studies to play both positive and negative roles in the transcriptional regulation of many genes, are identified here as components of mediator and RNA polymerase II holoenzyme complexes. Results with Sin4 deletion and Rgr1 truncation strains indicate the association of these proteins in a subcomplex comprising Sin4, Rgr1, Gal11, and a 50-kDa polypeptide. Taken together with the previous genetic evidence, our findings point to a role of the mediator in repression as well as in transcriptional activation.
Characterisation of the yenI/yenR locus from Yersinia enterocolitica mediating the synthesis of two N-acylhomoserine lactone signal molecules.	Yersinia enterocolitica produces compounds capable of transcriptionally activating the Photobacterium fischeri bioluminescence (lux) operon. Using high-performance liquid chromatography, high resolution tandem mass spectrometry in conjunction with chemical synthesis, two signal molecules were identified and shown to be N-hexanoyl-L-homoserine lactone (HHL) and N-(3-oxohexanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (OHHL). A gene (yenI) was isolated from Y. enterocolitica and demonstrated to direct the synthesis of both HHL and OHHL. DNA sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame (ORF) of 642 bp encoding a protein (YenI) of 24.6 kDa with approximately 20% identity to the LuxI family of proteins. Northern blot analysis of yenI expression indicated yenI is transcribed as a single gene and 5' transcript mapping of yenI identified a transcriptional start site 89 bp upstream of the ORF. DNA sequence analysis of the region downstream of yenI located a second ORF, termed yenR, with significant homology to the LuxR family of transcriptional activators. An insertion mutation of yenI abolishes HHL and OHHL production, indicating its central role in N-acylhomoserine lactone synthesis in Y. enterocolitica. Transcriptional analysis using a chromosomal yenI::luxAB fusion has demonstrated that yenI is not subject to autoinduction but is expressed constitutively. Whilst production of the Yop proteins in the wild type and in yenI mutants is indistinguishable, two-dimensional SDS-PAGE analysis of total cell proteins indicated that a number of proteins lack the yenI mutant.
Cloning, expression, and characterization of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) promoter binding factor, a transcription activator of the Acanthamoeba TBP gene.	TATA-binding protein (TBP) gene promoter binding factor (TPBF) is a transactivator which binds to the TBP promoter element (TPE) sequence of the Acanthamoeba TBP gene promoter and stimulates transcription in vitro. We have isolated a cDNA clone encoding TPBF. TPBF is a polypeptide of 327 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 37 kDa. The predicted amino acid sequence of TPBF shows no significant homology to other proteins. TPBF has two potential coiled-coil regions, a basic region, a proline-rich region, a histidine-rich N terminus, and a nuclear targeting sequence. The recombinant protein has an apparent molecular mass of 50 kDa, identical with that of TPBF purified from Acanthamoeba. Recombinant TPBF is able to bind DNA and activate transcription with the same specificity as natural Acanthamoeba TPBF, demonstrating the authenticity of the clone. Mobility shift assays of co-translated TPBF polypeptides and chemical cross-linking demonstrate that TPBF is tetrameric in solution and when bound to DNA. Analyses of TPBF mutants show that Coiled-coil II is essential for DNA binding, but Coiled-coil I and the basic region are also involved. TPBF is thus a novel DNA-binding protein with functional similarity to the tumor suppressor protein p53.
Sequence-specific DNA binding by covalently constrained peptide dimers of the basic leucine zipper protein GCN4.	DNA binding of covalently bonded peptide dimers was studied by using enantiomeric and C2-symmetric templates as a dimerization module. Amino acid sequence of the peptide is derived from that of DNA contact region of the basic leucine zipper protein GCN4. These peptide dimers were designed to possess different constraints with respect to the orientation of two peptides. The basic region peptides were covalently linked to the enantiomeric template at the C-terminal ends. Two peptides are arranged either in a right-handed or left-handed geometry depending on the chirality of the template. The GCN4 basic region dimers with both right-handed and left-handed geometries show equal affinity to the native GCN4 binding DNA sequences, 5'-ATGACTCAT-3' and 5'-ATGACGTCAT-3', as revealed by the gel mobility shift assay. Specific recognition of the palindromic DNA sequence by the peptide dimers was confirmed by the DNase I footprinting. Circular dichroism spectroscopic study indicates that the basic region peptides bound the target DNA sequence in a helical conformation. The degree to which a chiral constraint effects may depend on the geometry of two DNA binding domains in the parent protein-DNA complex and on a position to apply the chiral constraint.
LexA repressor and iron uptake regulator from Escherichia coli: new members of the CAP-like DNA binding domain superfamily.	Comparison of structures can reveal surprising connections between protein families and provide new insights into the relationship between sequence, structure and function. The solution structure of LexA repressor from Escherichia coli reveals an unexpected structural similarity to a widespread class of prokaryotic and eukaryotic regulatory proteins, which is typified by catabolite gene activator protein (CAP). The use of combined sequence profiles allows the identification of two new prokaryotic members of the superfamily: listeriolysin regulatory protein (PrfA) and ferric uptake regulatory protein (Fur). LexA, PrfA and Fur are the first examples of prokaryotic regulatory proteins in which DNA recognition is mediated by a variant of the classical helix-turn-helix motif, with an insertion in the turn region.
An Arabidopsis myb homolog is induced by dehydration stress and its gene product binds to the conserved MYB recognition sequence.	An Arabidopsis cDNA (Atmyb2) that contains a sequence that encodes a transcription factor, which is a homolog of MYB, was cloned from a cDNA library prepared from dehydrated Arabidopsis rosette plants. A gene (Atmyb2) corresponding to the Atmyb2 cDNA was also cloned and its nucleotide sequence was determined. RNA gel blot analysis showed that the Atmyb2 mRNA was induced by dehydration and disappeared upon rehydration. The Atmyb2 mRNA also accumulated upon salt stress and with the onset of treatment with abscisic acid. A beta-glucuronidase reporter gene driven by the Atmyb2 promoter was induced by dehydration and salt stress in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. These observations indicate that Atmyb2 is responsive to dehydration at the transcriptional level. The putative protein (ATMYB2) encoded by Atmyb2 has 274 amino acids, a molecular mass of 32 kD, and a putative DNA binding domain that shows considerable homology to plant MYB-related proteins, such as maize C1. A fusion protein that included ATMYB2 was expressed in Escherichia coli, and it bound specifically to oligonucleotides that contained a consensus MYB recognition sequence (TAACTG), such as is found in the simian virus 40 enhancer and the maize bronze-1 promoter. Binding was sequence specific, as indicated by a gel mobility shift experiment. These results suggest that a MYB-related transcription factor is involved in the regulation of genes that are responsive to water stress in Arabidopsis.
Pax 8 expression in primary cultured dog thyrocyte is increased by cyclic AMP.	Pax 8 proteins are paired domain-containing transcription factors expressed in thyroid, kidney, ovary, placenta and developing brain. Thyroglobulin (Tg) and thyroperoxidase (TPO) genes, which are specifically expressed in thyroid follicular cells, both harbor a Pax 8 binding site in their proximal promoter region. The transcription of these genes is, as is the expression of most of the other differentiated functions of the thyrocyte, positively regulated by thyrotropin (TSH) via a cyclic-AMP (cAMP)-dependent mechanism. However, no typical cAMP-responsive element has been detected in the promoter region of Tg and TPO genes. We therefore investigated whether Pax 8 activity itself could be regulated by cAMP, which would support a role for these factors in the cAMP-dependent expression of differentiation in thyroid cells. In this paper we show that the expression of Pax 8 mRNA and proteins are increased by treatment of the thyrocyte with forskolin. This suggests that Pax 8 could indeed participate in the mediation of the transcriptional activation of thyroid specific genes by cAMP. We also show that Pax 8 are nuclear phosphoproteins, although neither their phosphorylation, nor their nuclear translocation seem to be highly regulated by cAMP. During the course of this study, a new splicing variant of dog Pax 8, termed Pax 8g, has been isolated.
Differential activation of acute phase response factor/Stat3 and Stat1 via the cytoplasmic domain of the interleukin 6 signal transducer gp130. II. Src homology SH2 domains define the specificity of stat factor activation.	Distinct yet overlapping sets of STAT transcription factors are activated by different cytokines. One example is the differential activation of acute phase response factor (APRF, also called Stat3) and Stat1 by interleukin 6 and interferon-gamma. Interleukin 6 activates both factors while, at least in human cells, interferon-gamma recruits only Stat1. Stat1 activation by interferon-gamma is mediated through a cytosolic tyrosine motif, Y440, of the interferon-gamma receptor. In an accompanying paper (Gerhartz, C., Heesel, B., Sasse, J., Hemmann, U., Landgraf, C., Schneider-Mergener, J., Horn, F., Heinrich, P. C., and Graeve, L. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 12991-12998), we demonstrated that two tyrosine motifs within the cytoplasmic part of the interleukin 6 signal transducer gp130 specifically mediate APRF activation while two others can recruit both APRF and Stat1. By expressing a series of Stat1/APRF domain swap mutants in COS-7 cells, we now determined which domains of Stat1 and APRF are involved in the specific recognition of phosphotyrosine motifs. Our data demonstrate that the SH2 domain is the sole determinant of specific STAT factor recruitment. Furthermore, the SH2 domain of Stat1 is able to recognize two unrelated types of phosphotyrosine motifs, one represented by the interferon-gamma receptor Y440DKPH peptide, and the other by two gp130 YXPQ motifs. By molecular modeling, we propose three-dimensional model structures of the Stat1 and APRF SH2 domains which allow us to explain the different binding preferences of these factors and to predict amino acids crucial for specific peptide recognition.
Role of phosphorylation on DNA binding and transcriptional functions of human progesterone receptors.	To study the function of human progesterone receptor (hPR) phosphorylation, we have tested four sets of serine to alanine substitution mutants: 10 serine clusters, located in regions common to both hPR isoforms (the M-series mutants) were mutated in A-receptors and B-receptors; 6 serine clusters located in the B-upstream segment (BUS; the B-series mutants) were mutated individually and collectively and cloned into B-receptors and into BUS-DBD-NLS, a constitutive transactivator, in which the AF3 function of BUS is fused to the DNA binding domain (DBD) and nuclear localization signal (NLS) of hPR. Transcription by most of the M-series mutants resembles that of wild-type A- or B-receptors. Mutation of 3 sites, Ser190 at the N terminus of A-receptors, a cluster of serines just upstream of the DBD, or Ser676 in the hinge region, inhibits transcription by 20-50% depending on cell or promoter context. These sites lie outside the AF1 activation function. M-series mutants are substrates for a hormone-dependent phosphorylation step, and they all bind well to DNA. Progressive mutation of the B-series clusters leads to the gradual dephosphorylation of BUS, but only the 6-site mutant, involving 10 serine residues, is completely dephosphorylated. These data suggest that in BUS alternate serines are phosphorylated or dephosphorylated at any time. However, even when BUS is completely dephosphorylated, both BUS-DBD-NLS and full-length B-receptors remain strong transactivators. Mutant B-receptors also do not acquire the dominant negative properties of A-receptors, and they retain the ability to activate transcription in synergy with 8-Br-cAMP and antiprogestins. We conclude that phosphorylation has subtle effects on the complex transcriptional repertoire that distinguishes the two hPR isoforms and does not influence transactivation mediated by AF1 or AF3, but subserves other functions.
The hepatitis B virus transactivator protein, HBx, interacts with single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). Biochemical characterizations of the HBx-ssDNA interactions.	Human hepatitis B virus X protein, HBx, is widely acknowledged as a transcriptional transactivator. While HBx has been shown to increase gene expression in trans, it is generally believed that it does not bind double-stranded DNA. Using several experimental approaches, we show that HBx interacts with single-stranded DNA in a manner that is not sequence-specific. Various heterologous single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) oligonucleotides were able to compete in HBx-ssDNA interactions in gel shift assays. Escherichia coli non-sequence-specific, single-stranded DNA binding protein, E. coli SSB, displaced the HBx-ssDNA interactions, confirming the ability of HBx to interact with single-stranded DNA in a non-sequence-specific manner. We have further characterized the HBx-ssDNA interactions under various biochemical conditions. These include the effects of mono- and divalent cations, the effect of cardiolipin and heparin, pH and temperature dependence, and variations in the incubation time. HBx bound more tightly to d(pyrimidines)25 than to d(purines)25, a property that is characteristic of other single-stranded DNA-binding proteins (SSBs). Collectively the results presented here provide the first evidence of HBx's interaction with ssDNA. The biochemical parameters of these interactions were similar to those of known viral and cellular SSBs.
Solution structure of the DNA-binding domain of the tomato heat-stress transcription factor HSF24.	Two-dimensional-NMR and three-dimensional-NMR experiments were performed to determine the solution structure of the DNA-binding domain of the tomato heat-stress transcription factor HSF24. Samples of uniformly 15N-labeled and 15N, 13C-labeled recombinant proteins were used in the investigation. A near-complete assignment of the backbone 1H, 15N, and 13C resonances was obtained by three-dimensional triple-resonance experiments, whereas three-dimensional 15N-TOCSY-heteronuclear-single-quantum-correlation-spectroscopy, HCCH-COSY and HCCH-TOCSY spectra were recorded for side-chain assignments, 885 non-redundant distance constraints from two-dimensional-homonuclear and three-dimensional-15N-edited and 13C-edited NOESY spectra and 40 hydrogen-bond constraints from exchange experiments were used for structure calculations. The resulting three-dimensional structure contains a three-helix bundle and a small four-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet that forms a hydrophobic core. The two C-terminal helices are parts of a highly conserved helix-turn-helix motif that is probably involved in DNA recognition and binding. In contrast to heat-stress factors from yeast and animals, the plant heat-stress factors lack a loop of 11 amino acid residues inserted between beta3 and beta4. This leads to a tight turn between these beta-strands.
1H, 15N resonance assignment and three-dimensional structure of CYP1 (HAP1) DNA-binding domain.	CYP1(HAP1) is a transcriptional activator involved in the aerobic metabolism of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The amino acid sequence of its DNA-binding domain suggests that it belongs to the "zinc cluster" class. This region is indeed characterized by a pattern known to form a bimetal thiolate cluster where two zinc ions are coordinated by six cysteine residues. Structures of two such domains, those from GAL4 and PPR1, have been solved as complexes with DNA. These domains consist of the zinc cluster connected to a dimerization helix by a linker peptide. They recognize, as a dimer, an inverted repeat of a CGG motif that is separated by a specific number of bases. Interestingly, the specificity of that interaction seems not to be due to the interaction between the cluster region and the DNA but rather to a fine tune between the structure of the linker peptide and the number of base-pairs separating the two CGGs. However, the CYP1 target sites fail to display such a consensus sequence. One of the two CGG sites is poorly conserved and some experiments suggest a direct rather than an inverted repeat. Using 1H, 15N and 113Cd NMR spectroscopy, we have undertaken the analysis of the structural properties of the CYP1(56-126) fragment that consists of the zinc-cluster region, the linker peptide and a part of the dimerization helix. We have demonstrated that the six cysteine residues of the peptide chelate two cadmium ions as in GAL4 and PPR1. Fifteen structures of the zinc-cluster region (residues 60 to 100) were calculated, the linker peptide and the dimerization helix being unstructured under the conditions of our study. This region possesses the same overall fold as in GAL4 and PPR1, and most of the side-chains involved in the interaction with DNA are structurally conserved. This suggests that the CYP1 zinc-cluster region recognizes a CGG triplet in the same way as GAL4 and PPR1. In this case, the particular properties of CYP1 seem to be due to the structure of the linker peptide and/or of the dimerization helix.
Functional analysis of the PUT3 transcriptional activator of the proline utilization pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Proline can serve as a nitrogen source for the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae when preferred sources of nitrogen are absent from the growth medium. PUT3, the activator of the proline utilization pathway, is required for the transcription of the genes encoding the enzymes that convert proline to glutamate. PUT3 is a 979 amino acid protein that constitutively binds a short DNA sequence to the promoters of its target genes, but does not activate their expression in the absence of induction by proline and in the presence of preferred sources of nitrogen. To understand how PUT3 is converted from an inactive to an active state, a dissection of its functional domains has been undertaken. Biochemical and molecular tests, domain swapping experiments, and an analysis of activator-constitutive and activator-defective mutant proteins indicate that PUT3 is dimeric and activates transcription with its negatively charged carboxyterminus, which does not appear to contain a proline-responsive domain. A mutation in the conserved central domain found in many fungal activators interferes with activation without affecting DNA binding protein stability. Intragenic suppressors of the central domain mutation have been isolated and analyzed.
Redox-controlled ligand exchange of the heme in the CO-sensing transcriptional activator CooA.	The transcriptional activator CooA from Rhodospirillum rubrum contains a b-type heme that acts as a CO sensor in vivo. CooA is the first example of a transcriptional regulator containing a heme as a prosthetic group and of a hemeprotein in which CO plays a physiological role. In this study, we constructed an in vivo reporter system to measure the transcriptional activator activity of CooA and prepared some CooA mutants in which a mutation was introduced at Cys, His, Met, Lys, or Tyr. Only the mutations of Cys75 and His77 affected the electronic absorption spectra of the heme in CooA. The electronic absorption spectra, EPR spectra, and the transcriptional activator activity of the wild-type and mutant CooA proteins indicate that 1) the thiolate derived from Cys75 is the axial ligand in the ferric heme, but it is not coordinated to the CO-bound ferrous heme; 2) Cys75 is protonated or displaced in the ferrous heme; and 3) His77 is the proximal ligand in the CO-bound ferrous heme and probably also in the ferrous heme, but it is not coordinated to the ferric heme. NMR spectra reveal that the conformational change around the heme, which will trigger the activation of CooA by CO, takes place upon the binding of CO to the heme.
Characterization of functional domains of an embryonic stem cell coactivator UTF1 which are conserved and essential for potentiation of ATF-2 activity.	We have recently cloned a cDNA encoding an embryonic stem cell transcriptional coactivator termed UTF1 from the mouse F9 teratocarcinoma cell line (Okuda, A., Fukushima, A., Nishimoto, M., Orimo, A., Yamagishi, T., Nabeshima, Y., Kuro-o, M., Nabeshima, Y., Boon, K., Keaveney, M., Stunnenberg, H.G., and Muramatsu, M. (1998) EMBO J. 17, 2019-2032). Here we have cloned a cDNA for human UTF1 and identified two highly conserved domains termed conserved domain (CD)1 and CD2. Human UTF1, like that of mouse, binds to ATF-2 and the mutagenesis analyses reveal that the leucine zipper motif within the CD2 of the UTF1 and metal binding motif of ATF-2 are involved in this interaction. The factor also binds to TATA-binding protein containing complex. By means of immunoprecipitation analysis, we mapped two domains which are independently able to bind to the complex. Importantly, both domains are located within the conserved domains (one in CD1 and the other in CD2). Furthermore, transient transfection analyses point out the importance of these domains for activating ATF-2. Thus, these results suggest that these two conserved domains identified here play important roles in activating specific transcription at least in part by supporting physical interaction between the upstream factor, ATF-2, and basal transcription machinery.
Coupling capillary high-performance liquid chromatography to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry and N-terminal sequencing of peptides via automated microblotting onto membrane substrates.	To minimize low-quantity sample handling for protein sequencing and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry, a system consisting of an HPLC interfaced to an automated blotting device was used for off-line sample collection. Typically, protein digests are separated by reverse-phase HPLC and the resulting peptide fractions are pooled, concentrated, and then subjected to N-terminal sequence analysis. Obtaining unambiguous sequence from peptides derived from protein digestion at subpicomole levels requires careful sample handling to prevent loss of sample. In cases where multiple sequences are present, a secondary method such as mass spectrometry is needed to confirm the identity of the peptides. To minimize sample handling, commercial microblotting instruments have become available to deposit peptides directly onto polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membrane for automated N-terminal sequence analysis. In order to adapt this technology to mass spectrometry, we investigated the use of MALDI-MS compatible membranes such as Teflon and polyethylene (PE) as the blotting media for fraction collection. Using a panel of standard peptides as well as protein digests, we demonstrate that peptides separated by capillary HPLC can be collected directly onto Teflon or PE and detected into the femtomole range. Furthermore, detailed sequence analysis could be obtained by postsource decay fragmentation spectra of individual peptides blotted onto either PE or Teflon. Due to the high sensitivity of the MALDI-MS from these membranes, it was discovered that the small amount of peptide that passed through the PVDF membrane during a collection of peptides for N-terminal sequencing was sufficient to be collected and mass analyzed from a second underlying MALDI-MS compatible membrane. Therefore, from a single HPLC separation, samples could be collected onto both PVDF for traditional N-terminal sequencing and PE or Teflon for MALDI-MS. We demonstrate the general utility of this method for sequencing peptides from a tryptic digestion at subpicomole levels and for identifying unknown proteins separated by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The ability to generate both N-terminal sequence and confirmatory mass information from multiple peptides in a single separation greatly improves the reliability and the accuracy of protein characterization at subpicomole levels.
Molecular cloning and characterization of RBCK2, a splicing variant of a RBCC family protein, RBCK1.	RBCK1 (RBCC protein interacting with PKC 1) has two coiled-coil regions, a RING finger, a B-box and a B-box-like motif. RBCK2, a cDNA fragment related to RBCK1 was obtained, that lacks the 161-bp sequence of RBCK1 and encodes 260 amino acid residues. The 240-amino acid sequence in the NH2-terminal of RBCK2 is identical with RBCK1 and contains two coiled-coil regions but no other structural motifs, whereas the 20-amino acid sequence in the COOH-terminal is distinct from RBCK1. The analysis of genomic DNA revealed that RBCK1 and RBCK2 are generated from a single gene by alternative splicing. The RBCK1 protein interacted with the RBCK1 and RBCK2 proteins, but the RBCK2 protein did not interact with itself, in vitro. The RBCK2 protein fused with the DNA-binding domain of yeast GAL4 (GAL4DBD) did not show a transcriptional activity, but the RBCK2 protein inhibited the transcriptional activity of the RBCK1 protein fused with GAL4DBD. These results suggest that RBCK2 may inhibit the transcriptional activity of RBCK1 probably through complex formation with RBCK1.
Multimer formation is not essential for nuclear export of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 Rex trans-activator protein.	The Rex trans-regulatory protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is required for the nuclear export of incompletely spliced and unspliced viral mRNAs and is therefore essential for virus replication. Rex is a nuclear phosphoprotein that directly binds to its cis-acting Rex response element RNA target sequence and constantly shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm. Moreover, Rex induces nuclear accumulation of unspliced viral RNA. Three protein domains which mediate nuclear import-RNA binding, nuclear export, and Rex oligomerization have been mapped within the 189-amino-acid Rex polypeptide. Here we identified a different region in the carboxy-terminal half of Rex which is also required for biological activity. In inactive mutants with mutations that map within this region, as well as in mutants that are deficient in Rex-specific multimerization, Rex trans activation could be reconstituted by fusion to a heterologous leucine zipper dimerization interface. The intracellular trafficking capabilities of wild-type and mutant Rex proteins reveal that biologically inactive and multimerization-deficient Rex mutants are still efficiently translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. This observation indicates that multimerization is essential for Rex function but is not required for nuclear export. Finally, we are able to provide an improved model of the HTLV-1 Rex domain structure.
FREAC-1 contains a cell-type-specific transcriptional activation domain and is expressed in epithelial-mesenchymal interfaces.	The forkhead transcription factor FREAC-1 is a potent transcriptional activator. We have localized a transcriptional activation domain in the C-terminus of FREAC-1 and another one to a stretch of approximately 60 amino acids in the central part of the protein. While the C-terminal activation domain activates in all cell lines tested, the activation domain in the central part of the protein is functional only in cell lines derived from lung. This cell-type-specific activity is retained when the activation domain is fused to the heterologous DNA binding domain of Gal4. The human FREAC-1 gene was found to consist of two exons separated by an intron of 1.2 kb. Exon 1 encodes the forkhead DNA binding domain and the cell-type-specific activation domain. Exon 2 encodes the general activation domain. The distribution of FREAC-1 expression during embryogenesis was investigated by in situ hybridization. FREAC-1 mRNA was found in mesenchyme in immediate proximity to endodermal epithelia throughout the digestive, urinary, and respiratory tracts. Mesenchyme surrounding the notochord and adjacent to the ectodermal epithelia of the oral cavity and developing teeth also expresses FREAC-1. The pattern of FREAC-1 expression, with highest levels in the mesenchyme next to the epithelium and gradually diminishing as the distance from the epithelium increases, suggests that FREAC-1 expression is a response to epithelial paracrine signaling and that FREAC-1 may play a role in epitheliomesenchymal interactions.
Analysis of 5'-flanking region of human Smad4 (DPC4) gene.	Among the transducers of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta/bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor signaling proteins, Smad4 and Smad1 act together in BMP 2/4 signaling pathways, and Smad4 and Smad2 act in TGF-beta/activin signaling. To investigate how the Smad4 gene is regulated at the transcriptional level, we cloned and characterized its 5'-flanking region. The major transcription start site mapped by primer extension analysis was 132 bp upstream of the translation start site. The promoter region lacked canonical TATA and GC boxes; it did, however, contain a TATA-like structure (TAAAAT) 32 bp upstream of the transcription start site. A consensus sequence for homeoprotein HoxA-5 (TTTAAAAATTA) was identified at 171 bp upstream of the transcription start site. Within 600 bp upstream of the transcription start site, two Pit-1 and four F2F binding sites were found. One putative AP-1 site was located at -1129. These findings suggest that these homeoproteins could conduct their signals specifically by controlling both inter- and intracellular signal transduction pathways.
TGF-beta-induced phosphorylation of Smad3 regulates its interaction with coactivator p300/CREB-binding protein.	Smads are intermediate effector proteins that transduce the TGF-beta signal from the plasma membrane to the nucleus, where they participate in transactivation of downstream target genes. We have shown previously that coactivators p300/CREB-binding protein are involved in TGF-beta-mediated transactivation of two Cdk inhibitor genes, p21 and p15. Here we examined the possibility that Smads function to regulate transcription by directly interacting with p300/CREB-binding protein. We show that Smad3 can interact with a C-terminal fragment of p300 in a temporal and phosphorylation-dependent manner. TGF-beta-mediated phosphorylation of Smad3 potentiates the association between Smad3 and p300, likely because of an induced conformational change that removes the autoinhibitory interaction between the N- and C-terminal domains of Smad3. Consistent with a role for p300 in the transcription regulation of multiple genes, overexpression of a Smad3 C-terminal fragment causes a general squelching effect on multiple TGF-beta-responsive reporter constructs. The adenoviral oncoprotein E1A can partially block Smad-dependent transcriptional activation by directly competing for binding to p300. Taken together, these findings define a new role for phosphorylation of Smad3: in addition to facilitating complex formation with Smad4 and promoting nuclear translocation, the phosphorylation-induced conformational change of Smad3 modulates its interaction with coactivators, leading to transcriptional regulation.
Zinc fingers in Caenorhabditis elegans: finding families and probing pathways.	More than 3 percent of the protein sequences inferred from the Caenorhabditis elegans genome contain sequence motifs characteristic of zinc-binding structural domains, and of these more than half are believed to be sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins. The distribution of these zinc-binding domains among the genomes of various organisms offers insights into the role of zinc-binding proteins in evolution. In addition, the complete genome sequence of C. elegans provides an opportunity to analyze, and perhaps predict, pathways of transcriptional regulation.
A single amino acid in the DNA binding regions of STAT5A and STAT5B confers distinct DNA binding specificities.	STAT5A and STAT5B are two highly related transcription factors encoded by two distinct genes. STAT5A and STAT5B are activated by a broad range of cytokines and growth factors. Although they can be differentially activated, the functional difference between these two molecules relative to their structure is not known. Here we demonstrated that STAT5A and STAT5B homodimers have distinct DNA binding preferences. Chimeric STAT5 molecules allowed us to identify a region between amino acid 420 and 545 responsible for the DNA binding specificity. This region is located in the previously characterized DNA binding region of STAT proteins. Sequence comparison between STAT5A and STAT5B from different species showed a difference of 5 amino acids in the region 420-545 between STAT5A and STAT5B. Substitution of these amino acids demonstrated that a glycine residue at position 433 in STAT5B and a glutamic residue at a similar position in STAT5A determined the DNA binding specificity. These data indicate that STAT5A and STAT5B homodimers may have distinct function and probably regulate the expression of common as well as distinct genes.
Mutations in the AF-2/hormone-binding domain of the chimeric activator GAL4.estrogen receptor.VP16 inhibit hormone-dependent transcriptional activation and chromatin remodeling in yeast.	GAL4.estrogen receptor.VP16 (GAL4.ER.VP16), which contains the GAL4 DNA-binding domain, the human ER hormone binding (AF-2) domain, and the VP16 activation domain, functions as a hormone-dependent transcriptional activator in yeast (Louvion, J.-F., Havaux-Copf, B., and Picard, D. (1993) Gene (Amst.) 131, 129-134). Previously, we showed that this activator can remodel chromatin in yeast in a hormone-dependent manner. In this work, we show that a weakened VP16 activation domain in GAL4.ER.VP16 still allows hormone-dependent chromatin remodeling, but mutations in the AF-2 domain that abolish activity in the native ER also eliminate the ability of GAL4.ER.VP16 to activate transcription and to remodel chromatin. These findings suggest that an important role of the AF-2 domain in the native ER is to mask the activation potential of the AF-1 activation domain in the unliganded state; upon ligand activation, a conformational change releases AF-2-mediated repression and transcriptional activation ensues. We also show that the AF-2 domain, although inactive at simple promoters on its own in yeast, can enhance transcription by the MCM1 activator in hormone-dependent manner, consistent with its having a role in activation as well as repression in the native ER.
