Invited manuscript poster on renal-related education American Society of Nephrology, Nov. 16-21, 2010. Adolescents with chronic kidney disease and their need for online peer mentoring: a qualitative investigation of social support and healthcare transition.	Adolescents with chronic kidney disease (CKD) tend to be isolated from peers who also have CKD, develop non-adherent behavior with treatment recommendations, and consequently are at higher risk for poor health outcomes such as transplant rejection. At the same time, patients in this age group tend to be technologically savvy and well-versed in using Internet-based communication tools to connect with other people. In this study, we conducted semi-structured interviews among adolescents with CKD to assess their information needs and their interest in using a CKD-oriented peer-mentoring website that we are developing, kTalk.org. We interviewed 17 adolescents with CKD, ages 14-18 years old, to learn about (1) any concerns regarding transition from pediatric to adult care teams; and (2) their interest in using the Internet as a source for disease-related information and as a social networking tool for finding and interacting with their peers. The interviews were digitally recorded, transcribed, and qualitatively analyzed. Results showed that (1) the adolescent participants are commonly concerned about transitioning to an adult clinic; (2) they are isolated from peers with the same medical condition who are of similar age; (3) they are frequent Facebook users and are highly interested in exploring the possibility of using an online community website, such as kTalk.org, to discover and communicate with peers and peer mentors; and (4) there exist divergent opinions regarding if an online community of adolescent CKD patients should be open to the public.
Informing choice or teaching submission to medical authority: a case study of adolescent transitioning for sickle cell patients.	To understand how some of the top pediatric sickle cell centers are transitioning their adolescent patients from pediatric care given the diminished availability and quality of services in adult care.
From homeless to hopeless and healthless?: the health impacts of housing challenges among former foster care youth transitioning to adulthood in California.	A childhood history of placement in the foster care system makes the emerging adult period more complicated and problematic in a variety of ways including meeting basic needs, such as housing and health. We conducted focus groups with 31 former foster youth in San Francisco and Oakland, California to explore their housing and health care circumstances since "aging out" of the foster care system. Five key themes were identified: 1) housing circumstances have direct and indirect impacts on access to health care; 2) housing instability can impede the flow of information between social services staff and youth; 3) housing circumstances and health care differed for men and women; 4) service agency rules and structures may be developmentally mismatched with participant needs; and 5) emerging adults experience repercussions of institutional life including the suspicion of authority and mistrust of medical providers.
Adult outcome of pediatric hydrocephalus.	The outlook of pediatric hydrocephalus has spectacularly improved over the past decades; however, the adult outcome is still poorly documented. Determining the healthcare profile of these patients is important in order to organize the management of this growing population. We decided to review our pediatric hydrocephalus database for pediatric patients treated for hydrocephalus and followed up into adulthood.
Clinicians poorly assess health literacy-related readiness for transition to adult care in adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease.	To prepare for the transition from pediatric to adult-oriented health care systems, adolescents must develop the ability to obtain, process, and understand basic health information; make appropriate health decisions; and interact effectively with health care professionals. However, physicians use subjective methods to determine patients' readiness for this transition. We investigated health care literacy-related readiness for transition of children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) to identify determinants and compare actual levels with clinicians' opinions.
Health care of youth aging out of foster care.	Youth transitioning out of foster care face significant medical and mental health care needs. Unfortunately, these youth rarely receive the services they need because of lack of health insurance. Through many policies and programs, the federal government has taken steps to support older youth in foster care and those aging out. The Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008 (Pub L No. 110-354) requires states to work with youth to develop a transition plan that addresses issues such as health insurance. In addition, beginning in 2014, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Pub L No. 111-148) makes youth aging out of foster care eligible for Medicaid coverage until age 26 years, regardless of income. Pediatricians can support youth aging out of foster care by working collaboratively with the child welfare agency in their state to ensure that the ongoing health needs of transitioning youth are met.
Transition of adolescents with the exstrophy-epispadias complex to adult medicine: influence of long-term outcome results on management]	Today, young individuals with rare congenital anomalies as the Exstrophy-Epispadias-Complex (EEC) are mostly monitored interdisciplinary with a high standard of care and enthusiasm during childhood. However, when growing up through adolescence to adulthood adequate care-givers are not available at the moment in adult medicine in Germany and a concrete transition process has yet not been established. Over the past years, we put much effort in systematic evaluation of long-term outcome after reconstruction of the EEC in the newborn period to further improve outcome results. Beside predictive parameters for continence and long-term bladder function, genital function and fertility, as well as postoperative pelvic floor morphology and gynecological outcome, orthopedic results and psychosexual and psychosocial development in EEC were of major interest. As a consequence we currently develop a German-wide follow-up concept in EEC patients regarding age- and gender specific outcome issues. Long-term observations of the EEC outcome however, underline the unrestricted importance of careful long-term follow-up of all EEC patients, as well as the necessity of close cooperation of pediatric urologist, pediatric surgeons, urologists, orthopedic surgeons, gynecologists, andrologists, psychologists and urotherapists from early childhood and the need of knowledge transfer and hopefully a successful transition of the EEC individuals to general medicine.
Is an adult with Asperger syndrome sitting in your waiting room?	The prevalence of Asperger syndrome, a mild form of autism, appears to be rapidly increasing. This developmental disorder affects children and adults and can present challenges to providing medical care. In this update on Asperger syndrome, we offer guidance on how to interact with adult patients with the disorder. We also address proposed diagnostic changes scheduled to take effect in 2013.
A systematic review of transition readiness and transfer satisfaction measures for adolescents with chronic illness.	The transition from pediatric to adult health care can be challenging for adolescents with chronic illnesses. As a result, many adolescents are unable to transfer to adult health care successfully. Adequate measurement of transition readiness and transfer satisfaction with disease management is necessary in order to determine areas to target for intervention towards improving transfer outcomes.
Challenges in the transition of care for adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.	Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is often considered a childhood disorder. However, in those diagnosed with ADHD as children, inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity can persist into adulthood, causing significant functional impairment and emotional distress, even if the condition no longer meets diagnostic criteria. This review examines the developmental and psychosocial factors to consider in adolescents with ADHD and the strategies that facilitate the transition from pediatric to adult care. Our findings are based on PubMed database searches conducted on November 29, 2011, that identified articles pertaining to ADHD and continuity or transition in medical care for adolescents published in English within the 5-year period preceding this date. Adolescents with ADHD face specific burdens associated with transitioning into adulthood that can impede the achievement of academic and occupational goals. The main finding of the literature review was that ADHD treatment rates decline sharply from childhood through young adulthood, despite the fact that functional impairment often persists. Moreover, although psychosocial therapy can play an important role in resolving functional difficulties and encouraging patient adherence to pharmacotherapy, the existing literature focuses mainly on pharmacotherapy as first-line treatment for ADHD. Therefore, careful, advanced planning to ensure continuity of medical and psychiatric care is essential. This planning involves the pediatric service that has been providing care, the adult service that will assume the responsibility of providing care, the young person with ADHD, and the family. Although recommendations for planning initiatives have been developed by a variety of professional organizations, they do not seem to be routinely implemented for the transition of ADHD care. Such careful advanced transition planning can ensure continuity of treatment, encourage treatment adherence, and help young individuals adjust to new life circumstances and avoid negative educational, social, and vocational results. Guidelines designed to facilitate this transition of care may be helpful. 
Transition readiness in adolescents and emerging adults with diabetes: the role of patient-provider communication.	Transition from pediatric to adult care represents a high risk period for adolescents and emerging adults with diabetes. Fundamental differences between pediatric and adult care delivery models may contribute to increased risk for poor health outcomes. This review provides a brief overview of models of care in pediatric and adult settings and focuses on patient-provider communication content and quality as potential points of intervention to improve transition-related outcomes. This review also highlights disparities in transition and communication for adolescents and emerging adults from racial/ethnic minority groups and discusses recent changes in health care legislation that have significant implications for the transition process. Intervention opportunities include programs to enhance developmentally-appropriate patient-provider interactions and increased attention to promoting transition readiness skills. Improving patient-provider communication may hasten the development of vital self-advocacy skills needed in adult health care systems and, thus, help establish a lasting pattern of positive diabetes self-care. 
Transition-age children with mental illness: hearing the voices of mothers.	Members of a local NAMI organization were surveyed in order to explore the perspectives of mothers of transitional age (18-25) children diagnosed with mental illness. Social workers in a diversity of mental health care settings can use this information to improve competence with this population. Results indicate a dynamic shift in the mothering role during this time period. Findings also suggest mothers and their transition-age children need emotional and practical support from social workers and other mental health professionals. 
