Aminopeptidase N is a major receptor for the entero-pathogenic coronavirus TGEV.	Coronaviruses, like many animal viruses, are characterized by a restricted host range and tissue tropism. Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV), a major pathogen causing a fatal diarrhoea in newborn pig, replicates selectively in the differentiated enterocytes covering the villi of the small intestine. To investigate the molecular determinants of the infection, we characterized the surface molecule used by the virus for binding and entry into host cells. Here we report that aminopeptidase N, an ectoenzyme abundantly expressed at the apical membrane of the enterocytes, serves as a receptor for TGEV. Monoclonal antibodies were selected for their ability to block infection by TGEV of porcine cell lines. They recognized a brush-border membrane protein of M(r) 150K, which was identified as aminopeptidase N by amino-terminal sequencing. Two lines of evidence supported the view that the peptidase itself acts as a receptor. First, virions bound specifically to aminopeptidase N that was purified to homogeneity. Second, recombinant expression of aminopeptidase N conferred infectivity by TGEV to an otherwise non-permissive cell line.
Effective inhibition of porcine transmissible gastroenteritis virus replication in ST cells by shRNAs targeting RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene.	Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) is identified as one of the most important pathogenic agents during swine enteric infection, leading to high mortality in neonatal pigs and severe annual economic loss in swine-producing areas. Up to date, various vaccines developed against TGEV still need to be improved. To exploit the possibility of using RNA interference (RNAi) as a strategy against TGEV infection, two shRNA-expressing plasmids (pEGFP-U6/P1 and pEGFP-U6/P2) targeting the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) gene of TGEV were constructed and transfected into swine testicular (ST) cells. The cytopathic effect (CPE) and MTS assays demonstrated that both shRNAs were capable of protecting cells against TGEV invasion with very high specificity and efficiency. A real-time quantitative RT-PCR further confirmed that the amounts of viral RNAs in cell cultures pre-transfected with the two plasmids were reduced by 95.2% and up to 100%, respectively. Our results suggest that RNAi might be a promising new strategy against TGEV infection.
Transmissible gastroenteritis virus infection induces apoptosis through FasL- and mitochondria-mediated pathways.	Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) has been reported to induce apoptosis in swine testis (ST) cells. However, the mechanisms underlying TGEV-induced apoptosis are still unclear. In this study we observed that TGEV infection induced apoptosis in porcine kidney (PK-15) cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. TGEV infection up-regulated FasL, activated FasL-mediated apoptotic pathway, leading to activation of caspase-8 and cleavage of Bid. In addition, TGEV infection down-regulated Bcl-2, up-regulated Bax expression, promoted translocation of Bax to mitochondria, activated mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathway, which in turn caused the release of cytochrome c and the activation of caspase-9. Both extrinsic and intrinsic pathways activated downstream effector caspase-3, followed by the cleavage of PARP, resulting in cell apoptosis. Moreover, TGEV infection did not induce significant DNA fragmentation in ammonium chloride (NH(4)Cl) pretreated PK-15 cells or cells infected with UV-inactivated TGEV. In turn, block of caspases activation also did not affect TGEV replication. Taken together, this study demonstrates that TGEV-induced apoptosis is dependent on viral replication in PK-15 cells and occurs through activation of FasL- and mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways.
TGEV nucleocapsid protein induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis through activation of p53 signaling.	Our previous studies showed that TGEV infection could induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis via activation of p53 signaling in cultured host cells. However, it is unclear which viral gene causes these effects. In this study, we investigated the effects of TGEV nucleocapsid (N) protein on PK-15 cells. We found that TGEV N protein suppressed cell proliferation by causing cell cycle arrest at the S and G2/M phases and apoptosis. Characterization of various cellular proteins that are involved in regulating cell cycle progression demonstrated that the expression of N gene resulted in an accumulation of p53 and p21, which suppressed cyclin B1, cdc2 and cdk2 expression. Moreover, the expression of TGEV N gene promoted translocation of Bax to mitochondria, which in turn caused the release of cytochrome c, followed by activation of caspase-3, resulting in cell apoptosis in the transfected PK-15 cells following cell cycle arrest. Further studies showed that p53 inhibitor attenuated TGEV N protein induced cell cycle arrest at S and G2/M phases and apoptosis through reversing the expression changes of cdc2, cdk2 and cyclin B1 and the translocation changes of Bax and cytochrome c induced by TGEV N protein. Taken together, these results demonstrated that TGEV N protein might play an important role in TGEV infection-induced p53 activation and cell cycle arrest at the S and G2/M phases and apoptosis occurrence. 
Ontogeny of interferon alpha secreting cells in the porcine fetal hematopoietic organs.	We examined the ontogeny of IFN-alpha Secreting Cells (IFN-alpha SC) in different hematopoietic organs and blood of porcine fetuses at different stages of gestation. Cells were induced to produce IFN-alpha by incubation with the coronavirus TGEV and IFN-alpha SC were detected by ELISPOT. A striking finding was that IFN-alpha SC could be detected in the fetal liver as early as at 26 days of gestation, i.e., during the first quarter of gestation, a period at which T-cell markers could not be detected by flow cytometry. In addition, IFN-alpha SC could be detected in the cord blood, the spleen and the bone marrow of fetuses at later stages of gestation. These data indicate that IFN-alpha SC appear very early during the ontogeny of the immune system, long before the development of the specific immune system, and may therefore represent an early antiviral defence mechanism. IFN-alpha SC were found to be associated with hematopoietic organs, which argues for their hematopoietic lineage.
N-acetylneuraminic acid plays a critical role for the haemagglutinating activity of avian infectious bronchitis virus and porcine transmissible gastroenteritis virus.	Porcine transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) was found to resemble avian infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in its interaction with erythrocytes. Inactivation of the receptors on erythrocytes by neuraminidase treatment and restoration of receptors by reattaching N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) to cell surface components indicated that alpha 2,3-linked Neu5Ac serves as a receptor determinant for TGEV as has been reported recently for IBV. Similar to IBV, the haemagglutinating activity of TGEV is evident only after pretreatment of virus with neuraminidase indicating that inhibitors on the virion surface have to be inactivated in order to induce the HA-activity of these viruses. A model is presented to explain why the HA-activity of untreated virus is masked and how neuraminidase treatment results in the unmasking of this activity.
