Hypoxia/reoxygenation and TGF-beta increase alphaB-crystallin expression in human optic nerve head astrocytes.	Reactive astrocytes in glaucomatous optic nerve changes are characterized by an increased expression of alphaB-crystallin and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta). In the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic nerve damage, ischemia/reperfusion injury may play an important role. The goal of the present study was to determine the influence of hypoxia/reoxygenation and TGF-beta on the expression of alphaB-crystallin in cultured human astrocytes of the optic nerve head (ONH). Cultured human astrocytes were incubated under hypoxic conditions (1% O2 for 4-12 h) with subsequent reoxygenation (12-24 h). Additionally, cells were treated with 1.0 ng/ml TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2 for 12-48 h. Expression of alphaB-crystallin was examined by Northern- and Western-blotting. Levels of TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2 were analyzed by RT-PCR analysis and ELISA. The effect of TGF-beta blocking on the hypoxia/reoxygenation modulated expression of alphaB-crystallin was investigated by simultaneous incubation with neutralizing antibodies against TGF-beta during the reoxygenation phase. Hypoxia/reoxygenation increased the expression of alphaB-crystallin at the mRNA (2.8- to 3.1-fold) and protein level (1.8- to 2.1-fold). Treatment with 1.0 ng/ml TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2 for 12-48 h markedly enhanced alphaB-crystallin mRNA expression approximately three- to fourfold. Using Western blot analysis, this increase ranged from 2 to 3 times. Both cytokines showed a twofold increase after 12 and 24 h of reoxygenation at the mRNA and a two- to threefold increase at the protein level. Simultaneous treatment with neutralizing antibodies against both TGF-beta isoforms prevented the hypoxia/reoxygenation-mediated elevation of alphaB-crystallin. The process of hypoxia/reoxygenation is capable of inducing the expression of alphaB-crystallin and TGF-ss in cultured ONH astrocytes. Therefore, optimization of conditions leading to hypoxia/reoxygenation in the ONH of glaucomatous patients may help to lower the incidence of characteristic changes in the optic nerve.
siRNA-mediated knockdown of connective tissue growth factor prevents N-nitrosodimethylamine-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats.	Hepatic fibrosis is a dynamic process that involves the interplay of different cell types in the hepatic tissue. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is a highly profibrogenic molecule and plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis. The aim of the present investigation was three-fold. First, we studied the expression of CTGF in the cultured hepatic stellate cells using immunohistochemical technique. Second, we induced hepatic fibrosis in rats through serial intraperitoneal injections of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA; dimethylnitrosamine, DMN) and studied the upregulation of CTGF and TGF-beta1 during hepatic fibrogenesis. Third, we downregulated CTGF expression using CTGF siRNA and examined the role of CTGF siRNA to prevent the progression of NDMA-induced hepatic fibrosis. The results depicted strong staining of CTGF in the transformed hepatic stellate cells in culture. Serial administrations of NDMA resulted in activation of hepatic stellate cells, upregulation of CTGF and TGF-beta1 both at mRNA and protein levels and well-developed fibrosis in the liver. Immunostaining, Western blot analysis, semiquantitative and real-time RT-PCR studies showed downregulation of CTGF and TGF-beta1 after treatment with CTGF siRNA. The results of the present study demonstrated that CTGF gene silencing through siRNA reduces activation of hepatic stellate cells, prevents the upregulation of CTGF and TGF-beta1 gene expression and inhibits accumulation of connective tissue proteins in the liver. The data further suggest that knockdown of CTGF upregulation using siRNA has potential therapeutic application to prevent hepatic fibrogenesis.
Tissue concentration of transforming growth factor beta1 and basic fibroblast growth factor in skin wounds created with a CO2 laser and scalpel: a comparative experimental study, using an animal model of skin resurfacing.	Although a number of ablative-laser techniques based on CO(2) and Er: YAG laser devices have been successfully developed and used in the clinical setting, the bio-molecular processes influencing wound healing after exposure to laser energy are not well elucidated. In this study, we aim to assess the impact of the mechanism of injury on the secretion of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in various stages of wound healing, in wounds created with a CO(2) laser and scalpel. Ten Wistar rats were used to determine the levels of growth factor proteins TGF-beta1 and bFGF after CO(2) laser- and scalpel-induced skin injury. Tissue was excised on day 0 for untreated skin (control sites), and on days 1, 10, 30, and 90 following laser and scalpel surgery. Specimens were processed for histopathological analysis and for determining the concentration of growth factors by a Western blot technique. The concentration of TGF-beta1 increased markedly, at day 1 postinjury, from a baseline of 130+/-16 mm(2) (mean surface area of blotted-protein lanes) to 261+/-23 mm(2) and 394+/-22 mm(2) for laser-inflicted injury and scalpel wounds, respectively; the latter values were found to differ significantly (p<0.001). The concentration of b-FGF on day 10 postinjury differed significantly (p<0.001) between the laser sites (553+/-45 mm(2)) and the corresponding scalpel sites (418+/-41 mm(2)). Laser energy alters local tissue secretion of TGF-beta1 and bFGF of skin injuries created with the CO(2) laser compared with wounds created with a scalpel. These differences might have an impact on various aspects of wound healing of skin injuries created by a laser.
Effect of mineral trioxide aggregate cements on transforming growth factor beta1 and bone morphogenetic protein production by human fibroblasts in vitro.	The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of two commercial mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) cements (ProRoot MTA and MTA Angelus) on transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 levels produced by cultured human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs). Human gingival tissues were obtained from individuals with healthy periodontium. HGFs were grown at 37 degrees C in humidified atmosphere of 5% CO(2) in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium, supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum, penicillin, and streptomycin. After 24 and 72 hours of exposure to the MTA products, HGF viability was determined by using 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay. TGF-beta1 and BMP-2 levels in cell-free culture media were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Cell viability of the test groups was significantly lower than that of control at 24 and 72 hours (p < 0.05) but showed an increase at 72 hours (p < 0.05). Both test groups showed increased TGF beta-1 levels at 72 hours (p < 0.05), whereas the MTA Angelus group displayed higher TGF beta-1 levels than control and ProRoot MTA groups at 24 and 72 hours (p < 0.05). At 24 hours, BMP-2 levels of the ProRoot group were significantly higher than that of MTA Angelus (p < 0.05). Both test materials increased the BMP-2 levels within time (p < 0.05) and displayed similar levels at 72 hours (p > 0.05). These results suggest that both MTA products are capable of stimulating HGF to produce BMP-2, whereas the stimulatory effect for TGF beta-1 is material dependent.
Role of mast cells in the development of renal interstitial fibrosis in children with Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis]	To investigate the role of mast cells in the development of renal interstitial fibrosis in children with Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis (HSPN) and possible mechanisms.
Platelet-rich plasma: quantification of growth factor levels and the effect on growth and differentiation of rat bone marrow cells.	Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is a new application of tissue engineering and a developing area for clinicians and researchers. It is a storage vehicle of growth factors (GFs) such as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)- AA, -BB, -AB; transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and -2; platelet-derived epidermal growth factor (PDEGF); platelet-derived angiogenesis factor (PDAF); insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1); and platelet factor- 4 (PF-4), which are known to influence bone regeneration. However, animal and clinical studies reveal different results with the use of PRP and its effect on bone healing. This could be due to the differences between species, that is, differences between species in GF concentrations or variation in presence of GFs between the various PRPs. In this study, rat bone marrow cells were cultured in PRP-coated wells or in uncoated wells for 16 days in osteogenic medium, and analyzed on cell growth (DNA content) and cell differentiation (alkaline phosphatase [ALP] activity, calcium content, scanning electron microscopy, and QPCR). The concentrations of TGF-beta1, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB, and PDGF-BB in rat, goat, and human PRP were subsequently determined. The results showed that PRP stimulated initial cell growth and had no effect on ALP activity. The calcium measurements showed a significant increase in calcium at days 8, 12, and 16. The real-time PCR results showed that PRP upregulated osteocalcin at day 1 and collagen type I at day 8. Overall, the immunoassays revealed that human PRP contained higher concentrations of growth factors per platelet compared to rat and goat PRP. Goat PRP showed higher concentrations of growth factors per platelet as compared to rat PRP except for PDGF-BB, which had a higher concentration in rat PRP. TGF-beta1 was the most abundant growth factor in all 3 PRPs. On the basis of our results, we conclude that platelet-rich plasma contains osteo-inductive growth factors, which are probably species related. However, we cannot generalize the results because of large intraspecies variations. Further, we conclude that rat PRP gel stimulates initial growth and differentiation of rat bone marrow cells in vitro.
Effect of a synthetic extracellular matrix on vocal fold lamina propria gene expression in early wound healing.	An improved understanding of molecular response in the vocal folds to a synthetic extracellular matrix (sECM) during early wound repair is essential for understanding functional improvement of the tissue and implementation of future tissue-engineering strategies. The present study used real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to measure transcript expression of selected markers (procollagen alpha 2 type I, fibronectin, fibromodulin, hyaluronan synthase 2, and hyaluronidase 2) in 20 rabbits that underwent vocal fold biopsy bilaterally. After the biopsy, Carbylan-GSX 5% was injected immediately into the left vocal fold, and saline was injected into the right vocal fold. Two unwounded normal rabbit larynges were also harvested. Animals were sacrificed at days 1, 3, 5, and 10 post-surgery. At days 1, 3, and 10, no significant differences were found between the Carbylan-GSX-treated and saline-treated groups. At day 5, significant differences in procollagen (p = 0.02), fibronectin (p = 0.02), and transforming growth factor beta1 (p = 0.02) between the Carbylan-GSX-treated and saline-treated groups were measured. The presence of a sECM in the wound bed during the early stages of repair amplified the normal rabbit vocal fold wound-healing response over a short period of time. This amplification provided an optimal environment for tissue regeneration and may lead to the recovery of the functional biomechanical properties of the vocal folds necessary for voice production.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 and CD105 promote the migration of hepatocellular carcinoma-derived endothelium.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of most malignant and aggressive human tumors. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and its coreceptor CD105 have been shown to contribute to HCC malignant progression. TGF-beta1 and CD105 have also been implicated in angiogenesis, but their role in the vascularization of HCC has not been investigated. To fill this gap, we studied the effect of TGF-beta1 and CD105 on HCC-derived endothelium. By using immunomagnetic beads, we isolated and cultured endothelial cells (ECs) from HCC (HCC-EC) and adjacent nonneoplastic tissue (nNL-ECs) obtained from 24 liver biopsies. HCC and nNL biopsies were also analyzed by immunohistochemistry for the expression of CD105, TGF-beta1, Ve-cadherin (Ve-cad), CD44, beta-catenin, and E-cadherin. Compared with nNL-ECs, HCC-ECs had higher expression of CD105, enhanced spontaneous motility, and greater capacity to migrate in response to TGF-beta1 (5 ng/mL), particularly in the presence of a fibronectin matrix. The chemotactic effect of TGF-beta1 was blocked by anti-CD105 antibodies and correlated with the grade of HCC malignancy. Histologic examination of HCC biopsies showed that HCCs with the worse malignant features had the highest expression of TGF-beta1, CD105, and angiogenic markers (Ve-cad and CD44). Because CD105 was highly expressed in microvessels at the tumor periphery and TGF-beta1 staining was only found in neoplastic hepatocytes, we conclude that HCC-derived TGF-beta1 may act as a chemoattractant for CD105-expressing ECs and as a promoter of tumor angiogenesis. Thus, drugs that selectively target the TGF-beta1/CD105 axis may interfere with HCC-related angiogenesis and HCC progression.
Highly purified eicosapentaenoic acid ethyl ester prevents development of steatosis and hepatic fibrosis in rats.	Pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is considered to be involved in fat accumulation, oxidative stress, inflammation, and fibrosis in liver, but no drug therapy has been established as yet. Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is an agent used clinically to treat hypertriglyceridemia, and has been reported to suppress reactive oxygen species and inflammation. Here, we aimed to assess the effect of EPA on progression of hepatic fibrosis in an animal model of NASH.
Biomarkers and surrogate endpoints for normal-tissue effects of radiation therapy: the importance of dose-volume effects.	Biomarkers are of interest for predicting or monitoring normal tissue toxicity of radiation therapy. Advances in molecular radiobiology provide novel leads in the search for normal tissue biomarkers with sufficient sensitivity and specificity to become clinically useful. This article reviews examples of studies of biomarkers as predictive markers, as response markers, or as surrogate endpoints for radiation side effects. Single nucleotide polymorphisms are briefly discussed in the context of candidate gene and genomewide association studies. The importance of adjusting for radiation dose distribution in normal tissue biomarker studies is underlined. Finally, research priorities in this field are identified and discussed.
The effect of simvastatin on mRNA expression of transforming growth factor-beta1, bone morphogenetic protein-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor in tooth extraction socket.	To determine the effect of local simvastatin application on the mRNA expression level of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the tooth sockets of rat.
Increased cavernous expression of transforming growth factor-β1 and activation of the Smad signaling pathway affects erectile dysfunction in men with spinal cord injury.	Transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) is implicated in bladder fibrosis after spinal cord injury (SCI) and in the fibrosis in the corpus cavernosum tissue after cavernous nerve injury.
The roles of transforming growth factor-β₁ and vascular endothelial growth factor in the tracheal granulation formation.	Acquired tracheal stenosis is common in patients with a long-term tracheostomy and granulation is one of the most commonly observed lesions in benign airway stenosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms of tracheal granulation formation and find the potential therapeutic targets to prevent the granulation formation.
Tight glycaemic control is a key factor in wound healing enhancement strategies in an experimental diabetes mellitus model.	Diabetes mellitus is a leading cause of impaired wound healing. The aim of this study was to establish a glucose-controlled diabetic wound healing model.
The extra domain A of fibronectin is essential for allergen-induced airway fibrosis and hyperresponsiveness in mice.	Asthma is characterized by airway inflammation, airway remodeling, and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Myofibroblast differentiation and subepithelial fibrosis are key features of airway remodeling. Extra domain A (EDA)-containing fibronectin (EDA-FN), an alternatively spliced form of the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin, has been implicated in fibroblast differentiation during wound healing and tissue fibrosis.
Evaluation of MMP-1, MMP-10, TIMP-1, a-SMA and TGF-b1 in angiofibromas of tuberous sclerosis.	Tuberous sclerosis is a neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by affect multiple organs such as brain, kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs and skin. The aim of this study was to analyze the pattern of immunolocalization of markers MMP-1, MMP-10, TIMP-1, α-SMA and TGF-β1 in oral and facial angiofibromas in individuals affected by tuberous sclerosis.
Dysregulation of betaglycan expression in primary human endometrial carcinomas.	TGFβ signaling cascade plays a vital role in neoplastic transformation, but the function of betaglycan, which is a TGFβ accessory receptor, is still unknown in particular cancer. Evaluation of betaglycan expression both at mRNA (real-time PCR) and protein (ELISA) level in the context of TGFβ canonical signaling components, i.e., TGFβ1, TGFβ2, and TGFβRII, in endometrial carcinomas was performed. Betaglycan mRNA expression level was significantly (p < .001) downregulated with simultaneous betaglycan protein level upregulation in cancer samples. Obtained results suggest that endometrial cancer is associated with disruption of accessory receptor betaglycan expression, what may alter TGFβ2-induced signaling.
Chronic administration of udenafil, a selective phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, promotes erectile function recovery in an animal model of bilateral cavernous nerve crush injury.	Preservation of the cavernous nerves (CNs) during radical prostatectomy is crucial for the patient's erectile function. Despite advances in operative technique, the majority of men report compromised erectile function postprostatectomy or complete loss of potency due to CN trauma even with nerve-sparing modifications.
Impact of bone harvesting techniques on cell viability and the release of growth factors of autografts.	Autogenous bone grafts obtained by different harvesting techniques behave differently during the process of graft consolidation; the underlying reasons are however not fully understood. One theory is that harvesting techniques have an impact on the number and activity of the transplanted cells which contribute to the process of graft consolidation.
Dental abnormalities in Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia.	Described for the first time in 1971, Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia (SIOD) is an autosomal-recessive multisystem disorder that is caused by bi-allelic mutations of SMARCAL1, which encodes a DNA annealing helicase. To define better the dental anomalies of SIOD, we reviewed the records from SIOD patients with identified bi-allelic SMARCAL1 mutations, and we found that 66.0% had microdontia, hypodontia, or malformed deciduous and permanent molars. Immunohistochemical analyses showed expression of SMARCAL1 in all developing teeth, raising the possibility that the malformations are cell-autonomous consequences of SMARCAL1 deficiency. We also found that stimulation of cultured skin fibroblasts from SIOD patients with the tooth morphogens WNT3A, BMP4, and TGFβ1 identified altered transcriptional responses, raising the hypothesis that the dental malformations arise in part from altered responses to developmental morphogens. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic study of the dental anomalies associated with SIOD.
An autologous platelet-rich plasma stimulates periodontal ligament regeneration.	Regeneration of periodontal tissues is one of the most important goals for the treatment of periodontal disease. The technology of plasma rich in growth factors provides a biologic approach for the stimulation and acceleration of tissue healing. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the biologic effects of this technology on primary human periodontal ligament fibroblasts.
Real-time monitoring and control of soluble signaling factors enables enhanced progenitor cell outputs from human cord blood stem cell cultures.	Monitoring and control of primary cell cultures is challenging as they are heterogenous and dynamically complex systems. Feedback signaling proteins produced from off-target cell populations can accumulate, inhibiting the production of the desired cell populations. Although culture strategies have been developed to reduce feedback inhibition, they are typically optimized for a narrow range of process parameters and do not allow for a dynamically regulated response. Here we describe the development of a microbead-based process control system for the monitoring and control of endogenously produced signaling factors. This system uses quantum dot barcoded microbeads to assay endogenously produced signaling proteins in the culture media, allowing for the dynamic manipulation of protein concentrations. This monitoring system was incorporated into a fed-batch bioreactor to regulate the accumulation of TGF-β1 in an umbilical cord blood cell expansion system. By maintaining the concentration of TGF-β1 below an upper threshold throughout the culture, we demonstrate enhanced ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic progenitor cells at higher input cell densities and over longer culture periods. This study demonstrates the potential of a fully automated and integrated real-time control strategy in stem cell culture systems, and provides a powerful strategy to achieve highly regulated and intensified in vitro cell manufacturing systems.
Cigarette smoke-induced alveolar epithelial-mesenchymal transition is mediated by Rac1 activation.	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is the major pathophysiological process in lung fibrosis observed in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer. Smoking is a risk factor for developing EMT, yet the mechanism remains largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of Rac1 in cigarette smoke (CS) induced EMT.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ1) in breast milk and indicators of infant atopy in a birth cohort.	The infant gut's ability to suppress immunologic reactions to food proteins could be influenced by levels of TGFβ in breast milk. We hypothesized that lower levels of TGFβ(1) in the breast milk (BM) of mothers in the WHEALS birth cohort are associated with atopy at infant age 2-3 yrs.
Human hepatocellular carcinoma-infiltrating CD4⁺CD69⁺Foxp3⁻ regulatory T cell suppresses T cell response via membrane-bound TGF-β1.	Tumors can recruit, induce, and expand regulatory T cells (Tregs) to suppress antitumor immune responses for survival and progression. The complicated tumor-related Treg subsets and their functional mechanisms are not fully addressed yet. We have previously identified a novel CD4⁺CD69⁺Foxp3⁻ Treg subset in tumor-bearing mice, which suppresses CD4 T cell response via membrane-bound transforming growth factor beta 1 (mTGF-β1) and then promotes tumor progression. In hepatocellular carcinoma patients, here, we identified tumor-infiltrating human CD4⁺CD69⁺ Tregs which represent ~67.2 % of tumor-infiltrating CD4 T cells that is significantly higher than conventional CD4⁺CD25⁺Foxp3⁺ Tregs. They expressed mTGF-β1, PD-1, and CTLA-4, but not CD25 or Foxp3, and only produced a little interleukin (IL)-10 and TGF-β1. More importantly, they significantly suppressed CD4 T cell response via mTGF-β1 in vitro. Furthermore, the percentage of these CD4⁺CD69⁺ Tregs in tumor tissue was significantly correlated with tumor progression, which is more pronounced at the late stage of cancer patients. Thus, we have identified a tumor-induced new population of human CD4⁺CD69⁺ Tregs in cancer patients with phenotype of CD25⁻Foxp3⁻mTGF-β1⁺CTLA-4⁺PD-1⁺, and these Tregs can suppress antitumor immune response via mTGF-β1. Our results not only enrich the family of Treg subsets, providing new mechanistic insight to tumor-induced immune suppression in human, but also suggest a potential target for cancer immunotherapy.
