Cardiac autotransplant for surgical treatment of a malignant neoplasm.	Because of their anatomic location, cardiac sarcomas often interfere with cardiac function. Excision is considered to palliate the cardiac defect, but complete excision is often difficult owing to access, particularly in left atrial tumors. Incomplete resection results in tumor recurrence. To achieve complete resection of a large left atrial sarcoma, we used the technique of cardiac explantation, extracorporeal resection of the tumor with cardiac reconstruction, and cardiac autotransplantation.
An easy and safe method to store and disinfect explanted skull bone.	In our department extensive decompression craniectomies became the treatment of choice for patients with massive cerebral oedema following either trauma or acute cerebral infarction. The remarkable survival rates of this neurosurgical technique created the problem of adequate vault defect reconstruction. To evaluate the biological safety of using stored autologous skull flaps for this purpose, we compared three different disinfection methods. Skull bone fragments stored at -21 degrees C for different periods of time were artificially contaminated with clinically relevant strains of Serratia marcescens, Enterococcus faecium and Staphylococcus aureus. As potential methods for disinfection we tested immersion in 3% H2O2, boiling in normal saline for 15 and 30 minutes and a special process of steam disinfection at a temperature of 75 degrees C for 20 minutes. We were able to demonstrate that only steam disinfection completely eliminated the bacterial strains tested. Refrigeration plus steam disinfection of autologous skull bone prior to re-implantation seems to offer reliable safety for its use for defect closure. It is available at reasonable cost in many hospitals and does not require a bone bank.
Anatomic basis of vascularised nerve grafts: the blood supply of peripheral nerves.	The present study was carried out on 30 cadavers (5 fresh, 20 preserved adult and 5 fresh stillborn) following injection of red latex through the subclavian and common iliac arteries. The blood supply to the peripheral nerves was studied in general, together with the vascular pedicles to the ulnar, saphenous, sural, deep and superficial peroneal nerves, and the superficial branch of the radial nerve. The nutrient arteries supplying the peripheral nerves came from either the adjacent axial artery or the fasciocutaneous or muscular arteries. They formed anastomotic channels in the epineurium and penetrated it to form a continuous longitudinal artery. Based on the presence of absence of dominant arterial pedicles, five patterns of blood-supply to the nerves could be identified. I: no dominant arterial pedicle; II: only one dominant artery (e.g. artery with a diameter more than 0.8 mm and accompanying the nerve for most of its length); III: only one dominant vessel that divided into ascending and descending branches to supply the nerve; IV: multiple dominant pedicles; V: multiple dominant arterial pedicles forming a continuous artery that accompanied the nerve. The arterial pedicles to the ulnar, saphenous and deep peroneal nerves and the superficial branch of the radial n. had mean diameters of over 0.8 mm, thus being suitable for microvascular anastomosis. Those to the sural nerve were not present in two thirds of the dissected cadavers. In 10% of the cadavers the superficial peroneal nerve had an arterial pedicle that accompanied the nerve for less than two cm with a mean diameter less than 0.8 mm. The ulnar nerve could be very suitable as a donor vascularized nerve graft as it had a dominant vascular pedicle in all the cases studied; however, its use should be restricted to C8 and T1 root damage of the brachial plexus. The superficial branch of the radial n. might be suitable for vascularized nerve grafting, but this is difficult in practice since the radial artery is a major limb artery. The saphenous nerve had a dominant arterial pedicles in all the cadavers dissected and could be the most suitable as a donor vascularized nerve graft, unlike the sural nerve which did not have a dominant arterial pedicle in two-thirds of the specimens. The deep and superficial peroneal nerves may also be unsuitable since the former is accompanied by a major limb vessel while the latter had a dominant vascular pedicle that accompanied the nerve for only a short distance in 10% of the dissected cadavers.
Transposition of the lingual thyroid: A new alternative technique.	In symptomatic lingual thyroid, surgical transposition of the gland with its vascular supply intact seems to have superior results to those obtained by surgical ablation and autotransplantation. However, the procedure should be simple, reproducible, reliable, and cause less morbidity as well as providing simple access to and evaluation of the gland postoperatively.
Critical size defect in the goat's os ilium. A model to evaluate bone grafts and substitutes.	Bone defects and their treatment are a well known problem in orthopaedic surgery. A critical size defect is a suitable model to study bone replacement materials. This study describes a critical size defect in the goal and the evaluation of three bone fillers (particulate autograft, particulate allograft, and a polyethylene oxide/polybutylene terephthalate copolymer) in this defect. The goat allows for implantation of large implants and has a metabolic rate more comparable with that of humans than small animals. The critical size defect, located in the goat's iliac wing, is easily reproducible and allows qualitative and quantitative evaluation of bone grafts and bone graft substitutes. After 3 months of healing, the unfilled defects showed 13.5% bone in the defect, the autografted defects 36.3%, and the allografted 18.5%. The copolymer gave only 1.5% bone in the defect; this is in contrast to previous reports. The described model allows for the evaluation of bone graft substitutes before introduction into clinical practice.
Dermal-fat-fascia grafts.	Free dermal-fat-fascia grafts are used for subdermal augmentation in soft tissue or bony deficiencies resulting from surgical extirpation of cancer, congenitally arrested development, and trauma. The most important determinant for graft survival is the health of the recipient area and the volume of the graft. At least 70% resorption of these large grafts must be anticipated. Imitial overcorrection has some justification but may be self-defeating. Calcification of dermal-fat-fascia grafts, common in other areas of the body, does not appear to be a problem in the head and neck region. When possible, other types of augmentation procedures should be considered.
Autologous stem cell transplantations for recurrent adult T cell leukaemia/lymphoma using highly purified CD34+ cells derived from cryopreserved peripheral blood stem cells.	We performed double autologous PBSCT in one fulminantly relapsed ATL patient. Cryopreserved PBSCs containing tumour cells were thawed, and CD34+ cells were selected for by immunomagnetic beads, with the aim of decreasing the number of re-infused tumour cells. The patient received 0.72x10(6) and 0.90x10(6) CD34+ cells/kg. The graft contained less than 0.1% T cells. The patient had a very good recovery, and maintained a good quality of life, until she died on Day 339 after her first PBSCT in third relapse. We conclude that autologous PBSCT for ATL patient has benefit in some instances, and cryopreserved PBSCs can be used for CD34+ selection.
Reovirus oncolysis as a novel purging strategy for autologous stem cell transplantation.	Hematologic stem cell rescue after high-dose cytotoxic therapy is extensively used for the treatment of many hematopoietic and solid cancers. Gene marking studies suggest that occult tumor cells within the autograft may contribute to clinical relapse. To date purging of autografts contaminated with cancer cells has been unsuccessful. The selective oncolytic property of reovirus against myriad malignant histologies in in vitro, in vivo, and ex vivo systems has been previously demonstrated. In the present study we have shown that reovirus can successfully purge cancer cells within autografts. Human monocytic and myeloma cell lines as well as enriched ex vivo lymphoma, myeloma, and Waldenström macroglobulinemia patient tumor specimens were used in an experimental purging model. Viability of the cell lines or purified ex vivo tumor cells of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Waldenström macroglobulinemia, and small lymphocytic lymphoma was significantly reduced after reovirus treatment. Further, [35S]-methionine labeling and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of cellular proteins demonstrated reovirus protein synthesis and disruption of host cell protein synthesis as early as 24 hours. Admixtures of apheresis product with the abovementioned tumor cells and cell lines treated with reovirus showed complete purging of disease. In contrast, reovirus purging of enriched ex vivo multiple myeloma, Burkitt lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma was incomplete. The oncolytic action of reovirus did not affect CD34+ stem cells or their long-term colony-forming assays even after granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) stimulation. Our results indicate the ex vivo use of an unattenuated oncolytic virus as an attractive purging strategy for autologous stem cell transplantations.
Metabolic effects of systemic venous drainage in small bowel transplantation.	Small bowel transplantation has proved feasible in rats and in larger animals, but several important questions remain to be addressed before it becomes routine therapy in humans. One consideration is the site of venous outflow of the allograft. While portal drainage reestablishes the physiologic route of venous outflow, systemic drainage creates a partial mesocaval shunt, the metabolic consequences of which have not been studied in detail. Using a canine model of orthotopic small bowel autotransplantation, we compared the metabolic changes following transplantation with portal versus systemic venous drainage. Changes in blood ammonia levels, plasma amino acid composition, and hepatic blood flow were studied, since the Eck procedure produces metabolic changes of hyperammonemia and amino acid imbalances, while portocaval venous drainage of small bowel transplant produces a profile similar to that in controls. These data suggest that there is no metabolic disadvantage of systemic venous drainage as compared with controls. Because of its technical simplicity, systemic venous drainage may be preferable for small bowel transplantation.
A technique for transplantation of ovarian cortical strips to the forearm.	To describe a forearm heterotopic ovarian transplantation technique.
Re-infused autologous graft natural killer cells correlates with absolute lymphocyte count recovery after autologous stem cell transplantation.	Early absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) has been reported to be a powerful prognostic indicator of survival after autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). One possible source affecting ALC recovery includes the re-infused autologous graft lymphocytes (AGL). To assess if the re-infused AGL correlate with ALC recovery post-ASCT, we conducted a pilot study to identify which of the re-infused AGL subsets is most associated with day 15 ALC recovery in three patients with multiple myeloma and four patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient analysis (r), we compared absolute numbers of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, and CD16+/CD56+ cells/kg of body weight from the apheresis product with ALC (cells/microl) at day 15 post-ASCT. The main lymphocyte subsets identified in the apheresis product were T cells and NK cells. There was no strong correlation between T or B cells from the apheresis product compared with the ALC at day 15 post-ASCT (CD3, r = 0.21; CD4, r = 0.32; CD8, r = 0.39; and CD19, r = 0.14). However, there was good correlation between NK cells from the apheresis product compared with ALC at day 15 post-ASCT (CD16+/CD56+/CD3-, r = 0.77). These data provide preliminary evidence that the number of re-infused autologous graft NK cells in the apheresis product significantly affect ALC recovery early post-ASCT. However, given the small sample size, our results are primarily hypothesis generating and subject of further research.
Bone autografting of the calvaria and craniofacial skeleton: historical background, surgical results in a series of 15 patients, and review of the literature.	Although the use of autologous bone for reconstruction of the cranial and facial skeleton underwent a partial reappraisal following the introduction of a vast range of alloplastic materials for this purpose, it has demonstrated definite advantages over the last century and, particularly, during the last decade.
Mitigation of oxidative injury by classic and delayed ischemic preconditioning prior to small bowel autotransplantation.	Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) has been defined as short periods of ischemia with intermittent reperfusion. IPC induces two phases of protection. We sought to investigate the effects of classic and delayed preconditioning on oxidative stress markers prior to autotransplantation. Total orthotopic intestinal autotransplantation was performed on 18 mongrel dogs in three groups: group I (GI, nonpreconditioned), group II (GII, classic preconditioned), and group III (GIII, delayed preconditioned). In GI 3-hour cold preservation in University of Wisconsin solution was followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. In GII before this procedure the intestine was preconditioned by occlusion of the mesenteric artery with four cycles each of 5 minutes of ischemia and 10 minutes of reperfusion (IPC protocol). In GIII on day 1 the animals underwent the IPC protocol, and autotransplantation was performed on day 2. Oxidative stress parameters included malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) measurements in tissue samples. Our results showed increased lipid peroxidation with decreased GSH level and SOD activity in GI (control: 254.38 +/- 18.32 IU/g; reperfused: 55.01 +/- 26.40 IU/g; P <.05). In GII MDA was slightly elevated, and the GSH concentration was increased markedly. Furthermore, better preservation of SOD activity was observed at the end of the reperfusion. Meanwhile, in GIII GSH was significantly increased, indicating the activation of the endogenous antioxidant protective system (control: 382.13 +/- 24.22 micromol/L per gram; reperfused: 515.25 +/- 26.36 micromol/L per gram; P <.05). Moreover, SOD surpassed the control activity. Our findings confirmed that both forms of preconditioning mitigate the severity of oxidative stress prior to preservation and autotransplantation. Delayed preconditioning is more effective to protect bowel tissue against oxidative injury.
Evidence for a mitochondrial impact of trimetazidine during cold ischemia and reperfusion.	In organ transplantation, ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) has been implicated in delayed graft function (DGF) as well as in short- and long-term complications. Using an autotransplant pig kidney model, changes in renal function and morphology were determined after different periods of cold ischemia in kidneys preserved in the University of Wisconsin solution (UW), high-Na(+) version of UW (HEH) or Celsior (CEL) a newly developed high-Na(+) solution, with or without trimetazidine (TMZ). Kidney function was better preserved in CEL, UW and particularly HEH in combination with TMZ, particularly after 48 and 72 h. Mitochondria integrity was improved in TMZ-preserved groups. This study indicates that TMZ is efficiently protective against IRI even after prolonged preservation and in different preservation solutions.
Peripheral olfactory ensheathing cells reduce scar and cavity formation and promote regeneration after spinal cord injury.	Bridging of a lesion site and minimizing local damage to create an environment permissive for regeneration are both primary components of a successful strategy to repair spinal cord injury (SCI). Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are prime candidates for autologous transplantation to bridge this gap, but little is known currently about their mechanism of action. In addition, OECs from the accessible lamina propria (LP) of the olfactory mucosa are a more viable source in humans but have yet to be tested for their ability to promote regeneration in established SCI models. Here, mouse LP-OECs expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) transplanted directly into both rat and mouse dorsolateral spinal cord lesion sites demonstrate limited migration but interact with host astrocytes to develop a new transitional zone at the lesion border. LP-OECs also promote extensive migration of host Schwann cells into the central nervous system repair zone and stimulate angiogenesis to provide a biological scaffold for repair. This novel environment created by transplanted and host glia within the spinal cord inhibits cavity and scar formation and promotes extensive sprouting of multiple sensory and motor axons into and through the lesion site. Sixty days after rat SCI, serotonin- and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive axons sprouted across the lesion into the distal cord, although axotomized rubrospinal axons did not. Thus, even in a xenotransplant paradigm, LP-OECs work collaboratively with host glial cells to create an environment to ameliorate local damage and simultaneously promote a regenerative response in multiple axonal populations.
An update on the role of high-dose therapy with autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation in mantle cell lymphoma.	Early trials of high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell transplantation in mantle cell lymphoma were discouraging, with no clear survival advantage attributable to the procedure. Most early series were plagued by small numbers, retrospective designs, and short follow-up. Also, until recently, allogeneic stem cell transplantation was not an option for most mantle cell lymphoma patients who were too old or infirm to tolerate standard conditioning regimens.
High-dose therapy with autologous stem cell rescue for pediatric sarcomas.	The principal pediatric sarcomas are Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and osteosarcoma. While the prognosis for these diseases is generally favorable, it is possible to identify groups of patients with each diagnosis whose prognosis remains unacceptably poor. Based on the chemotherapy sensitivity of these tumors, many investigators have suggested that consolidation with high dose chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy followed by stem cell rescue could improve the prognosis for these high risk patients. This review evaluates the results of high dose therapy with stem cell reconstitution used to consolidate treatment of high risk patients with sarcomas.
Flowing cells through pulsed electric fields efficiently purges stem cell preparations of contaminating myeloma cells while preserving stem cell function.	Autologous stem cell transplantation, in the setting of hematologic malignancies such as lymphoma, improves disease-free survival if the graft has undergone tumor purging. Here we show that flowing hematopoietic cells through pulsed electric fields (PEFs) effectively purges myeloma cells without sacrificing functional stem cells. Electric fields can induce irreversible cell membrane pores in direct relation to cell diameter, an effect we exploit in a flowing system appropriate for clinical scale. Multiple myeloma (MM) cell lines admixed with human bone marrow (BM) or peripheral blood (PB) cells were passed through PEFs at 1.35 kV/cm to 1.4 kV/cm, resulting in 3- to 4-log tumor cell depletion by flow cytometry and 4.5- to 6-log depletion by tumor regrowth cultures. Samples from patients with MM gave similar results by cytometry. Stem cell engraftment into nonobese diabetic-severe combined immunodeficient (NOD/SCID)/beta2m-/- mice was unperturbed by PEFs. Flowing cells through PEFs is a promising technology for rapid tumor cell purging of clinical progenitor cell preparations.
Autologous bone marrow stromal cell transplantation for repair of full-thickness articular cartilage defects in human patellae: two case reports.	This study assessed the effectiveness of autologous bone marrow stromal cell transplantation for the repair of full-thickness articular cartilage defects in the patellae of a 26-year-old female and a 44-year-old male. These two patients presented in our clinic because their knee pain prevented them from walking normally. After thorough examination, we concluded that the knee pain was due to the injured articular cartilage and decided to repair the defect with bone marrow stromal cell transplantation. Three weeks before transplantation, bone marrow was aspirated from the iliac crest of each patient. After erythrocytes had been removed by use of dextran, the remaining nucleated cells were placed in culture. When the attached cells reached subconfluence, they were passaged to expand in culture. Adherent cells were subsequently collected, embedded in a collagen gel, transplanted into the articular cartilage defect in the patellae, and covered with autologous periosteum. Six months after transplantation, clinical symptoms (pain and walking ability) had improved significantly and the improvement has remained in effect (5 years and 9 months posttransplantation in one case, and 4 years in the other), and both patients have been satisfied with the outcome. As early as 2 months after transplantation, the defects were covered with tissue that showed slight metachromatic staining. Two years after the first and 1 year after the second transplantation, arthroscopy was performed and the defects were repaired with fibrocartilage. Results indicate autologous bone marrow stromal cell transplantation is an effective approach in promoting the repair of articular cartilage defects.
Osteophytes--an alternative source of chondrocytes for transplantation?	The aim of this research was to evaluate the possibility of using osteophyte-derived chondrocytes for autologous chondrocyte implantation by comparing the behaviour of these chondrocytes with that of normal articular cartilage-derived chondrocytes in monolayer culture.
Mandibular third molar autotransplantation--literature review with clinical cases.	Autotransplantation of mandibular third molars in a precocious phase of development is indicated when a substitute for adjacent compromised or missing molars is needed, and when mesial movements of the posterior teeth, the resultant loss of space, and overeruption of opposing teeth and consequent changes in the occlusion must be avoided. Provided that the apices of the mandibular third molar are immature, the immediate replacement of a lost or compromised tooth usually ensures a good outcome. Transplantation of third molars helps to maintain alveolar bone and enables endosseous implantation without requiring bone regeneration. We present examples of transplantation of mandibular third molars and review the factors that affect the success or failure of this procedure, such as atraumatic extraction and adequate immobilization of the transplanted tooth and root development after transplantation. Sex or age seem to have no effect on the final outcome.
A reduced intensity conditioning regimen for allografting following autografting is feasible and has strong anti-myeloma activity.	Sixteen patients with stage III multiple myeloma (MM) and a median age of 51 years were treated with autografting followed by reduced intensity conditioning allotransplantation (RICT). Nine patients are alive in remission at a median of 30 months after their transplants, one patient is alive in relapse and 6 patients died of progressive disease (5) or extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease, infections and progressive disease (1). We suggest that this two-step approach is feasible and it has strong anti-myeloma activity.
Clinical application of biotechnically cultured autologous chondrocytes as novel graft material for nasal augmentation.	A new method of nasal augmentation has been developed, in which cultured autologous chondrocytes are transplanted. Using biotechnology, a piece of the choncha cartilage 1 cm2 is cultured into a gel-type mass of chondrocytes, which then is transplanted by injection into a surgically created subperiosteal skin pocket on the nasal dorsum. The augmented nose is taped and protected for 1 week. The grafted chondrocytes develop into mature cartilaginous tissue after approximately 1 month. This method was used in eight cases of nasal augmentation, and one case of chin augmentation (performed simultaneously), and one case of depressed deformity on the forehead. The results obtained by this method to date have been satisfactory after a follow-up time of 6 to 24 months. The authors believe that this method may at least partially be able to replace silicone implantation for nasal augmentation.
The pulmonary autograft--a permanent aortic valve.	Between 1969 and 1991, 339 patients had an aortic valve replacement with their own living pulmonary valve at the National Heart Hospital, Guy's Hospital and the Harley Street Clinic, London. The longest follow-up is 24 years and cumulative follow-up is 3774 patient-years. No form of anticoagulation was used and there were no emboli. There were 25 hospital deaths (7.4%) but only 1 death since 1976. Late deaths occurred in 38 patients mainly from technical mal-insertion. Bacterial endocarditis occurred in 11 patients. Thirty-eight patients were re-operated upon and account for 15 of the late deaths. Freedom from re-operation was 85% and the actuarial patient survival was 80% at 20 years. There has been no evidence of primary tissue degeneration and explanted valves showed normal cusp cellularity. Accumulating evidence suggests that the cusps not only survive permanently but can grow with the patient making the operation ideal for children.
Efficacy of autograft and freeze-dried allograft to enhance fixation of porous coated implants in the presence of interface gaps.	Autogenous cancellous bone and freeze-dried allogeneic cancellous bone were tested in a total of 41 adult male mongrel dogs. In each humerus, an implant with a commercially pure titanium fiber metal porous coating was placed in an overreamed cavity so that a uniform 3-mm gap was present between the implant and host cancellous bone. Graft material was placed in the gap of one humerus while the gap of the other humerus was left empty and served as a paired negative control. Histologically, both autograft and allograft appeared to aid repair of the defect, but quantitatively only autograft enhanced new bone formation within the defect. Treatment with autograft significantly increased the amount of bone ingrowth within the implants by nearly three-fold at 4 weeks and eight-fold at 8 weeks. The enhancing effect was recognizable as early as 2 weeks. The strength of fixation was increased by nearly seven-fold at 4 weeks and two-fold at 8 weeks in the autograft group, but this was only statistically significant at 4 weeks. Treatment with allograft did not enhance bone ingrowth at any time period, but had a small positive effect on strength of fixation at 4 weeks.
Evaluation of the effect of splenectomy with autologous spleen tissue implantation in some monocyte functions in children with hepatosplenic schistosomiasis mansoni]	Adherence index, superoxide and TNF-alpha production in monocytes, with or without tuftsin treatment, were investigated in hepatosplenic schistosomiasis mansoni bearers with splenectomy with or without autologous implantation of spleen tissue. Three groups were evaluated: Healthy volunteers control group (CG) (n=12); Splenectomy with seft auto-transplant AG (n=18) and Splenectomy without auto-transplant WAG (n=9). Adherence index and TNF-alpha did not differ among the groups. Superoxide production was similar in CG and AG, in the 1st hour after cell stimulation. SP was larger in each hour time in CG and AG groups as compared WAS group. TT recovered normal pattern of SP in AG comparable with levels found in CG, with increase from the 1st to 2nd hour. However, TT did not alter SP in WAG, which remained reduced in all time points. Autologous implantation of spleen tissue seems to contribute for recovery and maintenance of the evaluated immunological reactions, which might be important in response to infections.
Autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation in follicular lymphoma.	Follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) usually present in advanced stage and although frequently are chemotherapy-sensitive remain incurable using conventional approaches. Treatment options are evolving rapidly and now include targeted therapies such as monoclonal antibodies. Recent studies, including the EBMTR-sponsored "CUP Trial" (conventional Chemotherapy, Unpurged autograft, Purged autograft), demonstrate that for patients under age 60 years with recurrent chemotherapy-sensitive disease, autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) provides a survival benefit over conventional therapy. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT) has become a more effective option. Although incorporation of TBI into the preparative regimen may increase treatment-related mortality (TRM), relapses appear to be reduced compared to a chemotherapy-alone regimen. Reduced-intensity alloSCT procedures now are being performed at an increasing rate, in part due to a lower risk for TRM. Until more data are available, however, reduced-intensity alloSCT should be considered only in cases where myeloablative conditioning is contra-indicated. There are no clear means for choosing ASCT versus alloSCT, a decision influenced by amount of residual tumor, disease-responsiveness, degree of marrow involvement and extent of prior chemotherapy. ASCT or alloSCT in first remission remains an investigational procedure. Future considerations include incorporation of novel preparative regimens, in vitro purging techinques, anti-lymphoma vaccines, post-transplant immunotherapy and ex vivo-manipulated donor lymphocyte infusions.
Minimally invasive treatment of simple bone cysts with percutaneous autogenous bone marrow injection.	Percutaneous autogeneic bone marrow injection is an effective method for managing simple bone cysts, and it might be considered before the application of more extensive procedures.
Hair transplantation in females.	Hair transplantation in females, to thicken discrete areas of thinning, reconstitute a hairline, or cover scars from previous facial surgery, is a viable treatment option. Techniques dealing with hair transplantation in females are discussed.
Anatomical reconstruction of the lateral ligaments of the ankle with a gracilis autograft: a new technique using an interference fit anchoring system.	Few anatomical and minor invasive procedures have been reported for surgical reconstruction of the lateral ligaments to treat lateral instability of the ankle. Furthermore, there are no standards according to which ligaments should be reconstructed.
Pulmonary autograft replacement of the aortic valve: an evolution of technique.	The use of the patient's pulmonary valve for replacement of the patient's diseased aortic valve was introduced and developed by Mr. Donald Ross. Its demonstrated durability, freedom from thromboembolism, and potential for growth has led to increased utilization of this technique. Modifications of the earlier techniques have led to a reproducible operation with low operative risk and excellent mid-term results.
A modified technique for conjunctival transplant.	An improved technique for the harvesting and placement of conjunctival autograft in complex, advanced and recurrent pterygia is presented. A paper template, fashioned to the approximate size of the pterygium excision site, is used to mark and subsequently transfer the conjunctival graft to the recipient bed. The template creates a strong, steady scaffold on which to orient and align the floppy conjunctival graft. This permits easier suturing and more accurate placement of the graft. We report a series of 30 eyes in which all transplants were taken from the superior or superotemporal bulbar conjunctiva of the same eye. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. No graft failures or graft retractions were seen. Although there have been several cases of partial recurrence, we have not had to resort to repeat surgery. We present this modification of a technique originally developed by Thoft and later refined by Vastine and Kenyon, as an effective way to correct complex, advanced, and recurrent pterygia.
Post-traumatic soft tissue defects of the foot]	The weight-bearing areas of the foot have a special tissue structure. When reconstructive surgery is performed care must be taken to prevent unstable scars and ulceration. The authors present methods of soft tissue reconstruction.
Outgrowth endothelial cells isolated and expanded from human peripheral blood progenitor cells as a potential source of autologous cells for endothelialization of silk fibroin biomaterials.	One challenge of particular importance in tissue engineering is to improve vascularization of larger size defects, which would then facilitate a sufficient supply with oxygen and nutrients to the central regions of a larger tissue-engineered construct or in highly vascularized tissues. In this study, we show that outgrowth endothelial cells (OECs) derived from human peripheral blood can serve as a source of human autologous endothelial cells and can be used in combination with fibroin silk fiber meshes for applications in tissue engineering. OEC reveal a highly differentiated endothelial phenotype as well as a high phenotypic stability during their expansion. Furthermore, OEC showed very promising results in the endothelialization of fibroin silk fiber meshes, maintaining their endothelial characteristics and functions. On the fibroin fiber meshes OECs formed differentiated endothelial cell layers covering the single fibers as shown by data from scanning electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and gene expression analysis. After embedding in a wound-healing matrix, mimicked by fibrin gels, OEC migrated from the fibroin scaffolds into the fibrin and formed a microvessel-like network. Thus, we conclude that OEC could serve as a valuable source of autologous endothelial cells, supporting pro-angiogenic therapies in combination with silk fibroin-based scaffolding materials in the field of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Angiogenetic factors and biochemical markers of bone metabolism in POEMS syndrome treated with high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell support.	The cause of the polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal plasma cell disorder and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome is currently unknown, but increased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) appear to play a pathogenetic role. Osteosclerotic bone lesions are a characteristic finding in POEMS, but there are no data about the specific role of various molecules that control bone remodeling in patients with POEMS. Serum levels of angiogenic cytokines (VEGF, angiogenin, angiopoietin-2, and basic fibroblast growth factor) along with a series of bone remodeling indices (C-telopeptide of type I collagen, bone-alkaline phosphatase [bALP], osteocalcin [OC], soluble receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand [RANKL], osteoprotegerin [OPG], and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha) were measured in 2 patients with POEMS before and after high-dose therapy (HDT) with autologous stem cell transplantation and in age- and sex-matched controls. Increased VEGF levels before HDT were reduced significantly after treatment, although levels of the other angiogenetic factors did not differ from that of controls and were less influenced by HDT. Serum RANKL levels were increased before HDT, whereas OPG levels were within the levels of healthy controls, resulting in an abnormal soluble RANKL to OPG ratio. Levels of bone resorption markers (C-telopeptide of type I collagen) were very low or undetectable before HDT, although bALP and OC levels were similar to that of controls. After HDT, soluble RANKL levels decreased, OPG remained rather stable, bone resorption markers increased to levels of normal individuals, bALP levels were rather unchanged, and OC levels increased. Decreasing VEGF levels parallel clinical improvement, and the restoration of normal bone metabolism follows HDT.
Graft incorporation after acetabular and femoral impaction grafting with washed irradiated allograft and autologous marrow.	Rates of around 40% incorporation have been described when chips of irradiated cancellous allograft with retained fat were impacted with the Exeter technique. We report the results of acetabular and femoral impaction bone grafting during revision hip arthroplasty using washed irradiated allograft with autologous marrow. Eighty-five consecutive patients underwent acetabular and or femoral revision arthroplasty. Evidence of graft cortication and trabeculation was recorded on successive postoperative radiographs, over a mean period of 44 months. Ninety-six percent (49/51) and 90% (53/59) of patients showed incorporation in acetabular and femoral grafts, respectively. This was usually apparent by 6 months postoperatively. We conclude that the addition of autologous marrow to irradiated bone allograft during impaction grafting is a cheap and highly effective way of achieving graft incorporation.
The decision-making process: allograft versus autograft.	The decision whether to use allograft or autograft in ventral cervical fusions has been widely discussed. The literature includes several prospective randomized trials. Extensive clinical evidence indicates that autograft use results in increased arthrodesis rates and less graft collapse. However, autograft harvest has a substantial morbidity rate. Allografts avoid the morbidity associated with autograft harvest but result in decreased arthrodesis rates and increased graft collapse rates. The decreased arthrodesis rate associated with allografts becomes more significant in multilevel surgery and in patients who smoke. The introduction and use of ventral cervical plates have made allograft use more attractive by increasing arthrodesis rates and decreasing graft collapse.
Harvesting and autotransplantation of vascularized ovarian grafts: approaches and techniques.	The objective of this study was to describe the different surgical approaches involved in harvesting and heterotopic autotransplantation of intact ovaries with microvascular anastomosis. Twenty-one synchronized Merino sheep underwent harvesting of their intact ovaries with vascular pedicles. Autotransplantation was performed with fresh (n = 6) and cryopreserved-thawed (C-T; n = 15) ovaries. The ovarian vessels were anastomosed to the deep inferior epigastric vessels using end-to-end (n = 8), end-to-side (n = 6) and fish-mouth modification (n = 7) techniques. Patency of the anastomosis, ischaemia time, hormonal functions and histology were evaluated. In addition, ovarian harvesting techniques in two human subjects were described. Possible autotransplantation sites in humans were suggested. In all, 33.3% (7/21) of all fresh and C-T transplants showed patency after 10 days of follow-up. Patency was observed in 5/8, 2/6 and 0/7 animals using end-to-end, end-to-side and fish-mouth modification for completion of the microvascular anastomosis respectively. Use of the fish mouth modification technique was associated with significantly higher ischaemia time compared with end-to-end (P < 0.01) and end-to-side (P = 0.05) anastomosis. A laparoscopic approach appears to be convenient for ovarian harvesting in humans. The inferior epigastric vessel is probably the most suitable heterotopic vascularizing vessel. End-to-end anastomosis yields the highest patency rate of vascularized grafts.
Autologous iliac crest bone graft: should it still be the gold standard for treating nonunions?	Nonunion is a common complication following long-bone fracture, with a prevalence that ranges from 2.5-46%, depending on the location and severity of the injury to the bone, soft tissue, and vascular structures. The treatment of nonunions involves addressing the biology of fracture repair and the mechanical stability of fracture fixation, which are interrelated. Nonunion treatment has traditionally included the addition of autograft from the iliac crest to enhance healing. However, there an associated morbidity with the harvesting of the graft, and alternatives such as bone marrow aspirate, platelet-rich plasma, allograft, and ceramics have also been studied. In addition, new advances in the understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of fracture repair have led to the use of growth factors, such as bone morphogenetic proteins, to accelerate bone healing. This article reviews the benefits of iliac crest bone graft relative to those of other modalities in the treatment of nonunions.
Tandem autologous stem cell transplantation for patients with primary refractory or poor risk recurrent Hodgkin lymphoma.	Although autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) for patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) appears to offer a survival advantage over conventional therapy, only approximately 25% to 35% of patients with primary progressive or poor-risk recurrent HL can achieve durable remission after ASCT, with disease progressive after transplant accounting for most of the treatment failures. We conducted a pilot study to evaluate the toxicities and efficacy of a tandem transplant approach in this subgroup of patients. Between April 1998 and March 2000, 46 patients were enrolled in the study.
CD34(+) hematopoietic progenitor cell selection of bone marrow grafts for autologous transplantation in pediatric patients.	CD34(+)-selection of hematopoietic grafts for patients undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is frequently used to obtain a tumor-free graft. The majority of published experience is with peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) products; only scant information has been published on bone marrow (BM) grafts. We reviewed our experience using CD34(+) selection of BM grafts in children undergoing autologous BM transplantation. After obtaining institutional approval, we performed a retrospective review of the medical records of patients who underwent autologous stem cell collection at St. Jude. From January 1, 1999, to December 31, 2003, 373 patients underwent autologous HSCT; 131 received marrow grafts, 237 received PBSC grafts, and 5 received a combination. Seventeen patients underwent BM harvests for CD34(+) selection of their stem cell grafts. Sixteen patients received 19 CD34 purified grafts processed on the Isolex 300i Magnetic Cell Selection System device. Four patients were not included in the engraftment analysis as 1 did not receive the collected product, 1 received a tandem product, and 2 received products that were composed of 2 or 3 combined purified products. Following selection, marrow grafts contained a median of 1.4 x 10(6) CD34(+) cells/kg (range: 0.09-8.3 x 10(6)/kg) and a median of 0.014 x10(8) total nucleated cell cells/kg (range: 0.001-0.09 x 10(8)/kg). The median CD34% recovery was 30.9% (range: 9.3%-57.1%), with the median CD34 purity being 95.5% (range: 62.2%-98.8%). All patients engrafted. The median time to absolute neutrophil count > or = 500/mm(3) was 19 days (range: 12-35 days), and to platelet recovery was 28 days (range 18-37 days). No patient died from transplant-related complications. Our study demonstrates that CD34(+)-selection of marrow grafts is feasible, and these grafts are able to successfully reconstitute hematopoiesis in patients undergoing autologous BMT.
Risk assessment in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation: stem cell source.	Bone marrow (BM) has been used for many years as the unique source of progenitor cells for allogeneic transplantation. However, two other sources of progenitor cells, peripheral blood (PB) and umbilical cord (UC), are being increasingly used. The type of graft is one of the most important factors in determining the speed and robustness of the reconstitution after the transplant of monocytes, T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, NK cells, and dendritic cells. This fact is of especial relevance since the most important reactions after allogeneic transplants - e.g. graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), graft-versus-leukaemia effect (GvL), achievement of full donor chimerism, and fight against infections - are strongly influenced by a rapid and robust reconstitution of these cells. For this reason, the choice of the type of graft for allogeneic transplantation will influence the clinical outcome.
Clinical experience using cultured epithelial autografts leads to an alternative methodology for transferring skin cells from the laboratory to the patient.	We report a 10-year audit using cultured epithelial autografts (CEAs) for patients with extensive burns. Clinical take using CEAs averaged only 45% (as has been reported by others) but over half of all cells cultured for these patients had to be discarded owing to difficulties of timing the production of CEA sheets to the needs of the patients. CEAs could not be used until they had reached confluence and formed an integrated sheet, which took, on average, 12 days. However, once formed, they needed to be used within 2-3 days or they lost the ability to attach to wound beds. In response to this we developed a simpler carrier dressing methodology for transferring cultured subconfluent keratinocytes from the laboratory to the wound bed. This methodology offers an increase in speed of delivery but its major contribution is the greater flexibility in timing the transfer of cells from the laboratory to the changing needs of the patients.
Autologous adult rodent neural progenitor cell transplantation represents a feasible strategy to promote structural repair in the chronically injured spinal cord.	Adult neural progenitor cells (NPCs) represent an attractive source for cell-based regenerative strategies in CNS disease. In animal models of spinal cord injury, syngenic adult NPCs, which were isolated from pooled post-mortem CNS tissue and co-transplanted together with fibroblasts, have been shown to promote substantial structural repair. The autologous transplantation of adult NPCs represents a major advantage compared with other sources of neural stem/progenitor cells. However, the feasibility of autologous NPC generation from a single biopsy in a relevant preclinical CNS disease model has yet to be demonstrated. To investigate this matter, adult Wistar rats underwent a cervical spinal cord lesion, which was followed by a minimal subventricular zone aspiration biopsy 2 days later. NPCs were isolated and propagated separately for each animal for the following 8 weeks. Thereafter, they were co-transplanted with simultaneously harvested skin fibroblasts in an autologous fashion into the cervical spinal cord lesion site. A total of 4 weeks later, graft survival, tissue replacement and axonal regeneration were assessed histologically. Animals receiving either allogenic NPCs combined with fibroblasts or autologous pure fibroblast grafts served as control groups. Within 8 weeks after the biopsy more than 3 million NPCs could be generated from a single aspiration biopsy, which displayed a differentiation pattern indistinguishable from syngenic NPC grafts. NPCs within autologous co-grafts readily survived, replaced cystic lesion defects completely and differentiated exclusively into glial phenotypes, thus paralleling previous findings with syngenic NPCs. The delayed transplantation 8 weeks after the spinal cord lesion elicited substantial axonal regeneration. These findings demonstrate that the therapeutic strategy to induce structural repair by transplanting adult autologous NPCs, after the successful propagation from a small brain biopsy into an acute CNS disease model, such as spinal cord injury, is feasible at the preclinical level.
Regeneration of squamous epithelia from stem cells of cultured grafts.	The only cultured cell types extensively used for tissue regeneration are the keratinocyte and the chondrocyte. Cultured autologous keratinocytes derived from the epidermis have been used for many years to produce grafts that regenerate an epidermis over a full-thickness wound, such as a third-degree burn. But there have been many failures of engraftment, and in the absence of criteria for the quality of the cultures, the causes of failure cannot be analyzed. It has become clear that the essential feature of the graft is the presence of an adequate number of stem cells. This article describes the criteria for estimating that number. Advances in graft preparation, combining better preservation of stem cells with ease of application of the graft, are also described. These improvements have been applied to cultures of ocular limbal cells, which contain the keratinocyte stem cells of the corneal epithelium. Cultures meeting the criteria of stem cell number have been grafted to 116 patients suffering from chemical destruction of the limbus. The procedure has been highly successful in the alleviation of suffering and the restoration of vision.
A second autologous transplant may be efficacious in selected patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma relapsing after a previous autograft.	Treatment options for patients who relapse following autologous transplantation for Hodgkin's lymphoma are limited. There are anecdotal reports of lengthy remissions following second autologous procedures, although treatment-related toxicity can be significant. We report a single centre experience of second autologous transplant performed in seven highly selected patients, who relapsed following initial high-dose therapy. They were all young and had slow tempo disease, which was still sensitive to conventional dose chemotherapy. All received BEAM conditioning for the first transplant, and six of the seven received BEAM for the second. All six of these patients regenerated successfully and with no delay, the final patient dying during the procedure following alternative conditioning. Only one case of presumed carmustine-related pneumonitis was seen, which responded rapidly to corticosteroid therapy. Four patients have subsequently relapsed, of whom three have died at 29, 33, and 38 months postprocedure. One is alive with active disease at 68 months, and the final two are alive and in continuing complete remission at 104 and 68 months.
Significance of low peripheral blood CD34+ cell numbers prior to leukapheresis: what should the threshold required for apheresis be?	The pre-apheresis peripheral blood CD34+ cell count (PBCD34) is the strongest predictor of the number of stem cells collected. It is common practice to apherese only when PBCD34 is >or=5/microl to avoid poor yields. However, in patients with compromised marrow function, the only way to get enough cells is to collect small numbers daily several times. Another pitfall with this practice is not accounting for weight. We studied 285 autologous collections performed with PBCD34 <5/microl. The blood volume processed was 15 l (n=68) or 20 l (n=217). A collection of >or=0.3 x 10(6) CD34+ cells per kg ideal body weight (IBW) was considered acceptable as this daily yield over a week could total >or=2 x 10(6)/kg-enough for an autograft. Two hundred and four harvests (72%) had yields of >or=0.3; with 59% being >or=0.4, 47% being >or=0.5 and 36% being >or=0.6. There were 23 patients whose harvests done when PBCD34 was low totaled >or=2 x 10(6)/kg. Assuming a 20-l apheresis with 70% collection efficiency, we suggest harvesting if 14 n/w >or=0.3, where n=PBCD34 and w=IBW. This approach is more logical than using an absolute threshold, and will ensure that patients are not deprived of the opportunity of stem cell collection and autotransplantation.
Autotransplantation of a part of the spleen. Clinical study]	Experimental studies on the subject were released in the previous issue of the Journal. Due to the positive results, the method described before, was applied on 11 patients and this is the aim of the current article.
A new method for carinal reconstruction: an experimental study.	We developed a new procedure for carinal reconstruction which can be used for lesions of the carina invading the left main bronchus. Twelve mongrel dogs were used. A Y-shaped bronchial graft was autotransplanted from the bifurcation of the right upper bronchus to form a new carina with or without an omentopexy. Six animals survived 10 days to 11 months. In these animals healing of the bronchial anastomotic sites was excellent, and the integrity of the grafts was well preserved. Although the results of this preliminary report were not satisfactory in all cases, intensive perioperative care will improve the outcome of this new procedure.
Autogenous fascial grafts for exposed retinal buckles.	Three patients with exposed scleral buckling elements received autogenous fascial grafts as an alternative to buckle removal. All three patients had successful coverage of their scleral buckles. There were no redetachments or infections. One patient had a postoperative ptosis that required repair. Autogenous fascial grafts are useful procedures in patients with exposed retinal buckles who have a significant risk of retinal redetachment with buckle removal.
The methods used to collect hematopoietic stem cells]	The methods used to collect hematopoietic stem cells in their natural environment (bone marrow or cord blood) or in the peripheral blood after stimulation are well-defined and ruled both to ensure the donor security and perform a quality hematopoietic transplantation. Safety of the familial or non-familial donor must be ensured not only during the collection but also on a medium- or a long-term basis. The stem cells amount in a graft and its characterisation depend on the collection site of hematopoietic stem cells and on the technique used. The knowledge of conditions influencing these amounts allows optimising the hematopoietic stem cells collection while preventing conditions in which the donor safety could be decreased. The collection site also influences the collection of significant amounts of other blood cells. This knowledge conditions the preparation procedures of the graft in cell therapy units or the management of per- or post-transplantations complications in haematology units. Thus, hematopoietic transplantations concern not only hematological units but also the teams involved in various stages of donor selection, hematopoietic stem cells collection and graft preparation. In order to allow an appropriate care of both donor and recipient, a concomitant knowledge of all the stages involved in hematopoietic collection conditions, characterisation of collected cells, hematological diseases and conditioning must be brought to hematological, collection and cell therapy teams.
First experience of autologous peripheral blood stem cell mobilization with biosimilar granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.	Mobilization techniques for autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection include chemotherapy followed by hematopoietic growth factors, such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Biosimilar versions of G-CSF are now available in Europe.
Micro-organ ovarian transplantation enables pregnancy: a case report.	A 19-year-old thalassemic woman had tissue from one of her ovaries cryopreserved prior to bone marrow transplantation, total body irradiation and sterilizing chemotherapy. As expected, premature ovarian failure resulted from this treatment. Transplantation of her thawed ovarian tissue resulted in return of menstrual cycling and the patient then underwent several IVF cycles. The patient, however, had poor ovarian response to hyperstimulation. We thus considered an alternative approach based on the observation that very thin ovarian fragments that preserve the basic ovarian structure [ovarian micro-organs (MOs)] induce angiogenesis and remained viable after autologous transplantation in animals. We report that preparation of autologous tiny ovarian fragments (MO)s and reimplantation into our patient resulted in IVF pregnancy and delivery of a healthy baby.
Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using remnant preservation and a femoral tensioning technique: clinical and magnetic resonance imaging results.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) results of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction with autogenous hamstring tendon by use of remnant preservation and a femoral tensioning technique.
Irreversible optical clearing of rabbit dermis for autogenic corneal stroma transplantation.	Tissue engineering and transplantation of autogenic grafts have been widely investigated for solving problems on current allograft treatments (i.g., donor shortage and rejection). However, it is difficult to obtain an autogenic corneal stromal replacement that is composed of transparent, tough, and thick collagen constructs by current cell culture-based tissue engineering. Aim of this study is to develop transparent dermis for an autogenic corneal stroma transplantation. This study examined dehydration at 4-8°C and carbodiimide cross-linking on cloudy rabbit dermis (approx. 1.8%-3.8% light transmittance at 550 nm) for dermis optical clearing. Transparency of dehydrated rabbit dermis was founded to be approx. 37.9%-41.4% at 550 nm. Additional cross-linking treatment on dehydrated dermis prevented from swelling and clouding in saline, and improved its transparency to be 56.9% at 550 nm. Rabbit corneal epithelium was found to regenerate on optically cleared dermis in vitro. Furthermore, no abnormal biological response (i.e., inflammation, vascularization, and the barrier defect of epithelia) or no optical functional change on optically cleared dermis was observed during its 4-week autogenic transplantation into rabbit corneal stromal pocket.
Efficacy of fibrin tissue adhesive in the attachment of autogenous conjuntival graft on primary pterygium surgery]	To compare the efficacy of conjunctival autograft surgery with the attachment to the scleral bed using fibrin tissue adhesive or mononylon 10-0 suture after resection of primary pterygium.
Intravenous autologous bone marrow mononuclear cells for ischemic stroke.	Cellular therapy is an investigational approach for stroke. Mononuclear cells (MNCs) from the bone marrow reduce neurological deficits in animal stroke models. We determined if autologous MNC infusion was feasible and safe in patients with ischemic stroke.
Tracheal autotransplantation: guidelines for optimal functional outcome.	Tracheal autotransplants can repair extensive hemilaryngectomy defects. This technique was introduced into the clinic some 10 years ago as a means of avoiding the mutilation of a total laryngectomy in selected patients with laryngeal cancer. Our goal was to give the morphometric guidelines that guarantee an optimal functional outcome.
Evaluation of transplantation of autologous bone marrow stromal cells into the cerebrospinal fluid for treatment of chronic spinal cord injury in dogs.	To evaluate effects of transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) into the CSF for the treatment of chronic spinal cord injury in dogs that had not responded by 1 month after decompressive surgery.
Uterus transplantation in a non-human primate: long-term follow-up after autologous transplantation.	Uterus transplantation (UTx) may provide the first available treatment for women affected by uterine infertility. The present study aimed to further develop a surgical technique for autologous UTx in a non-human primate species and to assess long-term function.
Oronasal fistula repair using auricular cartilage.	Seven oronasal fistula lesions secondary to extraction of maxillary canine teeth were treated in 5 dogs using a cartilage graft harvested from the ipsilateral auricular pinna. All dogs had undergone previous, unsuccessful surgeries in attempt to repair the defects. The technique is described in a step-by-step fashion for easy reproduction. The authors found the technique to be straightforward, relatively quick, and successful in all 7 lesions.
Concise review: cell therapy and tissue engineering for cardiovascular disease.	Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality, especially in developed countries. Various therapies for cardiovascular disease are investigated actively and are performed clinically. Recently, cell-based regenerative medicine using several cell sources has appeared as an alternative therapy for curing cardiovascular diseases. Scaffold-based or cell sheet-based tissue engineering is focused as a new generational cell-based regenerative therapy, and the clinical trials have also been started. Cell-based regenerative therapies have an enormous potential for treating cardiovascular disease. This review summarizes the recent research of cell sources and cell-based-regenerative therapies for cardiovascular diseases.
Histological aspects of autologous transplantation of different fragments of the spleen in rats.	To evaluate macro and microscopically the evolution of autotransplants of fragments of spleen different fragments in the greater omentum, after eight weeks of observation.
Experience of contemporary treatment of radiation burns in individuals subjected to ionizing radiation]	The article presents new approach to treatment of radiation disorders presenting as indolent ulcers. The approach is based on autologous multipotent mesenchimal stromal cells applied locally and injected around the injuried zone. The ulcers heal due to the fact that the transplanted cells stimulate local regeneration processes, angiogenesis, ceased inflammation and apoptosis. The method is a new medical technology based on vast preclinical studies and could be put into medical practice.
Autologous bone marrow stem cell transplantation in critical limb ischemia: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	Amputation-free survival (AFS) has been recommended as the gold standard for evaluating No-Option Critical Limb Ischemia (NO-CLI) therapy. Early-phase clinical trials suggest that autologous bone-marrow derived cells (BMCs) transplantation may have a positive effect on patients with NO-CLI, especially decreasing the incidence of amputation. However, the BMCs therapeutic efficacy remains controversial and whether BMCs therapy is suitable for all CLI patients is unclear.
Correlation between eight-gene expression profiling and response to therapy of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients treated with thalidomide-dexamethasone incorporated into double autologous transplantation.	We performed a molecular study aimed at identifying a gene expression profile (GEP) signature predictive of attainment of at least near complete response (CR) to thalidomide-dexamethasone (TD) as induction regimen in preparation for double autologous stem cell transplantation in 112 younger patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. A GEP supervised analysis was performed on a training set of 32 patients, allowing to identify 157 probe sets differentially expressed in patients with CR versus those failing CR to TD. We then generated an eight-gene GEP signature whose performance was subsequently validated in a training set of 80 patients. A correct prediction of response to TD was found in 71 % of the cases analyzed. The eight genes were downregulated in patients who achieved CR to TD. Comparisons between post-autotransplantation outcomes of the 44 non-CR-predicted patients and of the 36 CR-predicted patients showed that this latter subgroup had a statistically significant benefit in terms of higher rate of CR after autotransplant(s) and longer time to progression, event-free survival, and overall survival. These results can be an important first step to identify at diagnosis those patients who will respond more favourably to a particular treatment strategy.
Microvascular autologous transplantation of partial submandibular gland for severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca.	To evaluate the feasibility of microvascular autologous transplantation of partial submandibular gland (SMG) to prevent or reduce epiphora in severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS).
Salvage therapy by hemicortical excision and reconstruction for low-grade malignant bone tumour]	To treat low-grade limb malignant tumors with hemicortical excision and reconstruction of the defect with recycled pasteurized autograft.
Successful treatment of an HIV-positive multiple myeloma patient with high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and maintenance therapy with lenalidomide]	A 45-year-old HIV positive male who had previously been administered anti-retrovirus therapy (ART) resulting in a good virological response and with a CD4 count of more than 1,000/μl, complained of general fatigue during a periodic examination. Laboratory data showed decreased Hb (10.8 g/dl) and increased T.P (12.0 g/dl) and IgG (9,077 mg/dl). Monoclonal gammopathy (IgG-λ) was identified and bone marrow aspiration revealed 37.6% atypical plasma cells, leading to the diagnosis of symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM) (ISS clinical staging III).Four courses of VD (bortezomib+dexamethasone) therapy were administered with concurrent ART resulting in VGPR (very good partial response), followed by peripheral blood stem cell collection (the mobilizing chemotherapy was cyclophosphamide). Then, together with ART, high-dose chemotherapy (Mel-200; L-PAM) was administered with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). Reconstitution of white blood cells was achieved at 10 days after PBSCT. There were no adverse effects of ART and the viral load of HIV was well controlled during the period of these treatments. The final assessment was VGPR and 10 mg/day of lenalidomide has since been administered as maintenance therapy. Standard treatment combined with PBSCT for juvenile-onset MM is also effective and safe for HIV-positive patients receiving ART. 
Rapid improvement of fluid retention with lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone for POEMS syndrome relapsed after autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation]	We report a 53-year-old male with POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes) syndrome who relapsed after autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation (ASCT), but responded extremely well to lenalidomide (LEN) plus low dose dexamethasone (Ld) therapy. The patient had been diagnosed with POEMS syndrome in November 2006, and underwent ASCT in February 2007. In July 2011, he developed respiratory distress, generalized edema, and massive bilateral pleural effusion. Plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and M protein were increased, strongly indicating a relapse. Ld therapy was remarkably effective for these symptoms, resulting in complete remission with M-protein becoming undetectable by immunofixation. Since completing 11 courses of therapy with an every 4 weeks regimen, he has remained in clinical remission. The patient's activities of daily living have also markedly improved from total physical incapacity to being able to stand with slight assistance. LEN is associated with a lower incidence of peripheral neuropathy than other new drugs. Although LEN has occasionally been given to patients with POEMS syndrome in recent years, there are still few reports on its use for patients with recurrent disease after ASCT. Our successful management of this patient suggests that Ld therapy is not only relatively safe but also a promising option for POEMS syndrome relapsing after ASCT. 
Intraoperative PTH cutoff definition to predict successful parathyroidectomy in secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism.	In order to improve success rates in surgery of renal hyperparathyroidism, we evaluated intraoperative PTH (IOPTH) measurement utility.
Feasibility of autologous cord blood cells for infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.	To assess feasibility and safety of providing autologous umbilical cord blood (UCB) cells to neonates with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE).
Autologous peripheral blood hematopoietic cell transplantation in dogs with T-cell lymphoma.	Peripheral blood hematopoietic cell transplantation (PBHCT) is a feasible treatment option for dogs with B-cell lymphoma.
Autologous buccal mucosa graft for repair of recurrent rectovaginal fistula.	Post-operative pediatric rectovaginal fistulas are rare, can be challenging to repair, and often recur. The versatility, ease of accessibility, vascularization, and likeness to native vaginal tissues make autologous buccal mucosal grafts a novel tissue substitute for the repair of a recurrent rectovaginal fistula after the surgical repair of anorectal malformations. 
Follicular unit extraction with the Artas robotic hair transplant system system: an evaluation of FUE yield.	Hair transplants were developed and championed by dermatologists. However, dermatology literature has few contributions from within our specialty. In this manuscript, we present our evaluation of a specific graft harvesting approach for hair transplants referred to as Follicular unit extraction (FUE). In particular, we sought to evaluate the rate of harvest attempts that did not produce an actual hair folliclular unit graft. 
Aortic valve and left ventricular outflow tract replacement using allograft and autograft valves: a preliminary report.	A comparison of allograft and autograft (pulmonary) replacement of the aortic valve has, to our knowledge, not been done in America. Fifty-seven patients (age range, 2 to 70 years; mean age, 30 years) underwent 59 operations for replacement of the aortic valve (20) or entire left ventricular outflow tract (39) using autograft (35) or allograft (24) valves. Many had undergone a previous operation (25) or had concomitant procedures (13). Postoperative mortality was 8.5% (5/59). Two deaths occurred in the allograft group and three in the more complex pulmonary autograft group. One late death occurred. One autograft was replaced with an allograft 7 months postoperatively for severe aortic regurgitation. There have been no episodes of either endocarditis or thromboembolism. Forty-nine of 51 survivors are in New York Heart Association class I. Preliminary results suggest that congenital or acquired disease of the left ventricular outflow tract and aortic valve can be safely and effectively treated with either allograft or autograft valve transplantation.
Technical aids for dermabrasion.	Since the introduction in the 1940s of an effective method for facial dermabrasion using the wire brush, there have been many ancillary procedures developed. Preoperative aids include scar elevation and punch grafting of deep scars prior to dermabrasion. Retinoic acid can prime the skin for more rapid healing. Gas sterilization of electrical equipment eliminates cross-contamination between patients. Intraoperative improvements include regional block anesthesia of the face, staged narcotic administration and newer methods of facial prechilling, and criteria for the ambient air in the operatory. Gentian Violet staining of the face and use of microfoam tape to delineate the mandibular boundary of a dermabrasion are helpful. The use of a custom handle for the spray refrigerant, the safety of Turkish towels used for retraction, and the application of a sharp Buck's curette make the procedure simpler and more effective. Postoperative aids include the use of systemic steroids and the new biological dressings which simplify the postoperative recovery period.
Natural history of multiple intrahepatic canine islet allografts during and following administration of cyclosporine.	Cyclosporine (CsA) prevented acute rejection of intrahepatic canine islet allografts (IHIA) in 5/5 pancreatectomized dogs. Normal fasting blood glucose levels were sustained in these dogs for 210 +/- 78 days (mean +/- SEM) following withdrawal of CsA. We tested whether combining islets from more than one pancreas would improve function and prolong islet allograft survival during and following administration of CsA. Areas under the glucose disappearance (GDA) and C-peptide response (CPA) curves following i.v. glucose (0.5 g/kg), 1 month posttransplant were not significantly different using islets from 1 or 2 pancreases, whereas GDA and CPA approached normal if islet yields from 3 or more pancreases were combined. Mean islet allograft survival following interruption of CsA decreased with an increase in the number of donor pancreases (one: 210 +/- 78 days, vs. two: 113 +/- 23 days, vs. greater than 2: 57 +/- 5 days). These studies demonstrate that: (1) IHIA uniformly resulted in fasting euglycemia in 36 of 38 diabetic dogs treated with CsA; (2) normal i.v. glucose metabolism required the combined islet yield of 3 or more donor pancreases, suggesting that a substantial number of intrahepatic islet cells are functionally lost despite effective CsA-induced immunosuppression; (3) use of multiple donors to accumulate an increased mass of islets may immunologically compromise allograft survival following discontinuation of CsA (these experiments, however, do not exclude a direct relationship between the duration of CsA therapy and the duration of immune unresponsiveness following interruption of CsA in multidonor islet allografts as an independent variable); and (4) unmodified islets obtained from multiple donors seem to require continuous immunosuppression to prevent rejection.
The use of mesh skin grafts in wide-spread deep burns]	The author discusses the problem of the treatment of wide-spread deep burns by describing different procedures, the history of the use of mesh skin grafts, a comparison with micrografts, tehnicalities in these procedures, the equipment used, indications, and the results. Optimum results obtained by mesh grafts in combination with early tangential excisions, as a further step in a quicker and more successful treatment of wide-spread deep burns, are pointed out.
Our experiences in the treatment of burns using the technic of early necrectomy]	In the last 10 years there were enough oppositions as regards time when to undertake surgical treatment. The tendency existed that the operation should be undertaken earlier. Tangentional excision and immediate covering of transplantations for deep dermal burns and burns the full thickness of the skin is surely the right method. Our work on 123 cases during the last six years treated in this method, that is with the early closing of the wound, resulted in abbreviating the treatment and providing as better functional and aesthetical sight.
Recurrent basal cell carcinoma of the facial region -- a clinico-pathological challenge.	The observation that the majority of patients with basal cell carcinomas of the face presenting for surgical treatment did previously have radiotherapy or have undergone inadequate excision due to cosmetic considerations of the surgeon, induced us to review our own case material. According to this reassessment, a concept of radical removal was developed which took particular account to the direction of growth of basal cell carcinoma into the depth. Of considerable importance seems to be the unequivocal marking of the excised material prior to its histological work up and the additional removal of sub-focal specimens for separate histological examination.
Treatment of urethral stricture in man using one-stage urethroplasty with subcutaneous pedicle graft]	It is reported on a new one stage urethroplasty which, using a subcutaneous pedicle graft, is based on the spontaneous formation of a tube of a urethra-skin-strip submerged into the depth. The procedure was tested on a clinical material of 140 cases and is recommended as method of choice in strictures of the urethra.
Pinch grafting for chronic ulcers on lower extremities.	Chronic ulceration of the skin of the lower extremities continues to be a difficult therapeutic problem. Pinch grafting of ulcers of the legs from a variety of causes, has proved to be highly successful. The success rate and complications of this procedure performed in the Department of Dermatology at the University of Iowa over a five-year period (1971-1975) are reviewed. The basic technique and pre-operative and post-operative care are outlined. Management of difficult cases by using such techniques as the Jobst pump, heterograft skin dressings, and sublesional steroid injection is also discussed.
Microskin grafting in the treatment of extensive burns: a preliminary report.	Microskin grafting has proved to be an effective new procedure for the treatment of extensive burns, in which only a minimum amount of autogenous skin is needed for coverage of a large full-thickness burn wound. The technique has been improved and applied in 17 major burn patients. All patients survived. The wound covered with microskin grafts ranged from 6% to 45% TBSA, with a mean area of 24.1% TBSA. The expansion ratio of micrografts in this series reached up to 1:18, and can be greater. The wound healing was accomplished in three ways. 1) Wounds were completely resurfaced by micrografts in 24 limbs (58.5%). 2) Wounds were not totally healed with micrografts by the time the homograft was rejected, leaving only small raw areas which needed re-grafting in 12 limbs (29.3%). 3) The micrografts did not take on four limbs and one chest wall (12.2%). The improved technique, which has become more simple and feasible, is discussed in detail.
Composite autologous-allogeneic skin replacement: development and clinical application.	A major unsolved problem in skin restoration in severe burns is replacement of lost dermis. We report the development and clinical application of a composite grafting technique in which allogeneic skin is the source of dermis, and cultured autologous keratinocytes generate epidermis. Excised burn wounds are resurfaced with unmatched allograft. Immunosuppression from the burn and reduced immunoreactivity of the allograft permit successful allograft engraftment. Keratinocyte cultures are initiated from the patient. Allogeneic epidermis is removed, and the dermal bed is resurfaced with keratinocyte cultures. The allogeneic dermis promotes rapid (less than 7 days) stratification, maturation, and integration of the cultures and the synthesis of anchoring fibrils. One case followed 11 months has shown no evidence of rejection. We reason that removal of the epidermis from allograft eliminates the majority of cells constitutively expressing alloclass II antigens, leaving behind a viable allogeneic dermal bed that serves as an ideal substrate for engraftment and integration of keratinocyte cultures but does not initiate rejection.
Peritracheal membranous adipose tissue for early revascularization of the bronchial anastomosis.	The effect of a peritracheal wrap of membranous adipose tissue on revascularization of the bronchial anastomosis after left lung autotransplantation was evaluated in four groups of dogs. The bronchial anastomosis was performed just distal to the carina in groups 1 (6 dogs) and 2 (7 dogs) and as close to the lobar division as possible in groups 3 (14 dogs) and 4 (7 dogs). Peritracheal membranous adipose tissue was used in groups 1 and 3 only. The other two groups served as controls. Three dogs from group 2 had elastic Dacron fabric wrapped around the anastomotic site. Revascularization of the distal bronchus through the wrap was demonstrated in all dogs in groups 1 and 3, 7 days after surgery by postmortem injection studies but not in control groups 2 and 4, and serious bronchostenosis was also observed in the latter two groups. Histologic examination of the bronchial anastomosis revealed better structural preservation of the bronchus distal to the suture line with the adipose tissue wrap. The dogs with elastic Dacron fabric wraps showed poor structural integrity below the suture line (necrosis and calcification). Our results suggest that the level of bronchial anastomosis does not alter the healing process of the distal bronchus when a peritracheal membranous adipose tissue wrap is applied to the anastomotic site. They also indicate that the wrap is effective in restoring vascular flow across the suture line within 1 week of lung autotransplantation.
Cranial bone grafts for post-traumatic facial defects.	Recent interest in onlay cranial bone grafts has shown it to be a preferred technique in the reconstruction of facial defects. This paper reports seven patients in whom outer table cranial bone grafts were used to reconstruct post-traumatic facial deformities. These included orbital and zygomatic deformities (2 patients), maxillary defects (2 patients), mandibular defects (2 patients), and nasal deformity (1 patient). A brief review of the development of membranous bone grafting for maxillofacial reconstruction is given. Good cosmetic results were obtained in six of seven patients with no evidence of graft resorption. One patient required removal of the graft because of inadequate soft tissue coverage. No patient suffered any significant donor site morbidity. In summary, this technique is extremely useful in treating post-traumatic bony deformities of the facial skeleton. The excellent graft survival and ease in harvesting the graft make this technique preferable to traditional endochondral grafts taken from the iliac crest and rib.
Animal experiment studies on vascular wall injuries causing early vein-transplant thrombosis]	Veno-venous autotransplantations of the jugular veins of dogs were performed. The grafts remained patent if an endothelium preserving technique was applied for the dissection of the veins as well as for the anastomotic procedure. The endothelium preserving surgical technique consists in avoiding touching the veins by the hand of the surgeon, by instruments and by swabs. Also the retraction of the severed ends of the vein and of the graft should be avoided as well as the conglutination of the lumina. For this purpose the ends of the veins are kept in extension by atraumatic holding sutures. A progressive shrinking of the anastomotic region was never observed. Moderate stenoses, sometimes seen the first days after the transplantation, regularly disappeared a few weeks later. Ten autografts remained patent without systemic anticoagulation and without creating an arterio-venous fistula.
Experience with the Horton-Devine dermal graft in the treatment of Peyronie's disease.	We treated 15 patients with Peyronie's disease surgically with the dermal graft technique described by Horton and Devine. Details of the preoperative management and surgical technique are provided. Return of normal sexual function without residual chordee or pain was achieved in more than 75 per cent of the patients, suggesting that this is the procedure of choice in the management of severe Peyronie's disease.
Autogenous reversed vein bypass for lower extremity ischemia in patients with absent or inadequate greater saphenous vein.	This report has presented the results of 329 reversed vein bypasses performed for lower extremity ischemia over a 6 3/4 year period. One hundred eighty-nine bypasses were formed from intact ipsilateral greater saphenous veins of adequate size and length. One hundred forty bypasses were formed in patients in whom the ipsilateral greater saphenous vein was absent or of inadequate size or length to complete the bypass. The grafts in these patients were accomplished using a variety of techniques including distal graft origin, use of arm veins and lesser saphenous veins, and use of vein splicing. The patency rates of these grafts were equivalent to those achieved using adequate intact ipsilateral greater saphenous vein. In view of these results, we conclude that the absence of a greater saphenous vein does not preclude successful autogenous lower extremity vein bypass and that prosthetic bypass is rarely justified.
Elimination of bone defects with the aid of a transplant (bone morphogenetic protein BMP) prepared according to Urist's method. Animal experimenst compared with Kieler spongiosa]	In two groups of six beagle dogs a standardized bone defect of 1 cm was replaced by a) "Kieler Spongiosa", and b) autologous bone material, prepared according to the formula of Urist. Instead of mechanical insufficiency an impressive osteogenetic potency and periosteosis was noticed in group b.
Metatarsal lengthening by use of autogenous bone graft and internal wire compression fixation: a preliminary report.	As a preliminary report, our paper is designed to show another procedure to be used by podiatrists in lengthening metatarsals by the use of an autogenous bone graft. The procedure described should be considered when metatarsal length problems arise. Discussed were the basic physiologic properties of grafting, and the actual procedure of doing these grafts.
Pancreatic islet transplantation in dogs. Critical factors in technique.	Total pancreatectomy and intrasplenic autotransplantation of islet tissue was carried out in dogs. The resected pancreas was prepared by the partial islet isolation technique of gland distention, mincing and collagenase digestion. The influence of variations in technique was studied. Using otherwise identical methods, five collagenase lots were compared. Three lots were effective, resulting in successful transplants in 23 of 26 dogs. Two ineffective lots produced no successes in six dogs (p < 0.001). When minced particle size was varied, particles which would pass freely through a 16 gauge needle resulted in no successes in six dogs. With a larger particle size that would pass freely only through a 15 gauge needle, 15 of 15 transplants were successful (p < 0.001). When tissue was minced by hand, 8 of 11 transplants were successful, compared with 15 of 15 when mechanical mincing was used. With variation in collagenase concentration, success occurred in four of six using 300 units of collagenase/ml of minced tissue, in four of six using 600 units and three of six using 1,200 units. It is concluded that minced particle size and collagenase lot are critical variables in this technique of islet transplantation. Mincing method and concentration of collagenase do not appear to be important variables.
Microsurgical composite tissue transplantation.	Since 1974, 69 patients with extensive defects have undergone reconstruction by microsurgical composite tissue transplantation. Using this method, donor composite tissue is isolated on its blood supply, removed to a distant recipient site, and the continuity of blood flow re-established by microvascular anastomoses. In this series, 56 patients (81%) were completely successful. There have been eight (12%) failures, primarily in the extremities. There have been five (7%) partial successes, (i.e., a microvascular flap in which a portion was lost requiring a secondary procedure such as a split thickness graft). In those patients with a severely injured lower extremity, the failure rate was the greatest. Most of these were arterial (six of seven). These failures occurred early in the series and were thought to be related to a severely damaged recipient vasculature. This problem has been circumvented by an autogenous interpositional vein graft, permitting more mobility of flap placement. In the upper extremity, all but one case were successful. Early motion was permitted, preventing joint capsular contractures and loss of function. Twenty-three cases in the head and neck region were successful (one partial success). This included two composite rib grafts to the mandible. Prolonged delays in reconstruction following extirpation of a malignancy were avoided. A rapid return to society following complete reconstruction was ensured. Nine patients presented for reconstruction of the breast and thorax following radical mastectomy. All were successfully reconstructed with this new technique except one patient. Its many advantages include immediate reconstruction without delayed procedures and no secondary deformity of the donor site. Healthy, well vascularized tissue can now be transferred to a previously irradiated area with no tissue loss. This new method offers many advantages to older methods of reconstruction. Length of hospital stay and immobilization are reduced. The total number of operative procedures required in achieving the desired result is also less, thus decreasing the cost of hospital care.
Primary clinical experience with heterotopic autologous transplantation of the spleen]	On the basis of research and results obtained in recent years that the removing of the spleen increases an aptitude to the infection, the authors have carried out in 1981-1982 four autotransplantations of the spleen; they did it in polytraumatised patients with an extensive rupture of the spleen, where, because of the safe haemostasis, only a splenectomy should have to be performed. By a new technique, removed ruptured spleen is prepared with special procedure, and it is transplanted into the omentum majus of the same patient. There were no complications, although it is concerned of a few patients and a short postoperative follow-up. Three to four months after surgery, the Howwel-Jolly bodies became normal as well as vacuolated erythrocytes and immunophoresis, so that it corresponds to the normal, in-situ, spleen activity; it means that it is to expect a sufficient protection against an infection.
Expansion meshed skin grafts in care of the donor site in skin grafting vestibuloplasty.	A method of caring for split-thickness skin graft donor sites using a physiologic dressing of meshed donor material, taken at the same time and location as the split thickness skin graft harvested for maxillary or mandibular vestibuloplasty, has been presented. This procedure is simple to accomplish and provides rewarding postoperative results, with rapid re-epithelialization of the donor site, early ambulation, absence of pain, and an excellent final cosmetic result.
Split-thickness autogenous skin transplantation in the horse.	Single or multiple split-thickness autogenous skin transplants were applied to 20 limb wounds of 17 horses. The surface area of the wounds ranged from 25 to 200 sq cm. Grafts 0.635-mm thick were collected by use of an electric dermatome and were expanded on a mesh dermatome. The expanded mesh grafts were applied to wounds on 3 horses 4 days after injury. For the other 14 horses, grafts were applied after a granulation tissue bed had formed. The grafts were secured to the recipient beds with sutures and a dressing composed of a foam pad and elastic adhesive tape or with the dressing alone. Further protection was provided by a plaster cast or bulky cotton bandage. Graft acceptance ranged from 50% to 100%, with an average of 88%. Epithelialization was complete within 14 to 21 days in most cases. Grafts with greater than 60% acceptance resulted in a healed wound that was considered cosmetically acceptable.
Microsurgical free partial toe transfer in hand reconstruction: a report of 12 cases.	The foot is an invaluable bank of spare parts available for reconstructing the mutilated hand. The dorsalis pedis flap, the extensor digitorum brevis muscle, and the first and second toes can now be used as free transfers. We believe that partial toe transfers, including either sensitive cutaneous flaps or composite tissue, are also extremely useful in properly selected patients.
Free muscle grafting in facial paralysis.	For the dynamic restoration of elevation of the angle of the mouth in facial paralysis six possible variations of free muscle and nerve graft techniques are described. One of the techniques using the previously denervated extensor digitorum brevis muscle with its motor nerve in continuity serving as a cross-face nerve graft, was used in eight patients. The results were disappointing and it is concluded that the method should be abandoned.
Comparison of conduits for leg revascularization.	The saphenous vein (SV) remains the conduit of choice for lower limb revascularization. When SV is unavailable, or unsuitable, two alternative conduits have been employed: gluteraldehydestablized human umbilical vein (HUV) and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). In this study of the 218 patients who underwent lower limb revascularization, 3-year patency of 85 SV graft was 75% compared to 34% for the 66 HUV grafts and 33% for the 67 PFTE grafts. Three factors were found to independently influence patency: the indication for surgery, the site of the distal anastomosis, and the angiographic runoff. The SV group had significantly better patency than either HUV or PFTE in each of these subgroups. No consistent difference between HUV and PTFE was found. A risk score was obtained by assigning a value of 1 to 3 for each of the factors influencing patency--indication: 1 = claudication, 2 = rest pain, 3 = ischemic lesions; site: 1 = above knee (AK), 2 = below knee (BK), 3 = tibial; runoff 1 = good (two or three vessels), 2 = fair (one vessel), 3 = poor (no vessel). Patients with the lowest risk scores (3 to 4) had the best 3-year patency: SV, 78%; HUV, 44%; and PTFE, 48%. Patients with the highest risk scores (7 to 9) had the worst 3-year patency: SV, 68%; HUV, 32%; and  PTFE, 28%. SVs had better patency under high- and low-risk conditions and remain the conduit of choice for lower limb revascularization. Both HUV and PTFE have equivalent and acceptable patency when SV is unavailable or unstable.
Heterotopic splenic autotransplantation for splenomegaly secondary to Gaucher's disease--a case of siblings.	The authors report on siblings with Gaucher's disease who underwent heterotopic splenic autotransplantation for splenomegaly. The efficacy of this treatment is discussed.
Autologous fat grafts: a quantitative and morphometric study in rabbits.	The aim of this study was to assess the fate of autologous fat tissue grafts harvested and processed by five different methods: blunt suction, sharp suction, dissection, treatment, and lavage. Fat was harvested from the subcutaneous tissue of the interscapular region in 25 rabbits and injected into the subcutaneous area of the convex surface of the ear. Harvesting was by either open surgical excision or suction. Where open surgical excision was used, the fragments were cut into smaller pieces with scissors. Suction in the blunt and sharp suction groups was through cannulas with blunt or sharp edged suction holes, respectively. In both suction groups and the dissection group the harvested tissue was injected without further processing. In the treatment group 2 ml of cell 199 culture medium and Earle's basic salt solution were added, and in the lavage group the tissue was washed with Ringer's lactate. Animals were killed at 7 (n = 9), 180 (n = 8), and 360 (n = 8) days. Serial cross sections were taken from each recipient area and the specimens processed for histology. The images from each section were digitised in a computer and, with the assistance of image analysis software, the volume of remaining fat cells was calculated for each recipient area. The percentage volumes of fat cells found in each group at 360 days were: blunt suction 14% sharp suction 35%, dissection 45%, treatment 27%, and lavage 16% (p = 0.003).
Inside-out vein graft promotes improved nerve regeneration in rats.	Vein grafts have been used both experimentally and clinically to bridge gaps in peripheral nerves. This study describes a modification of the vein graft technique in which vein graft conduits are pulled inside-out before anastomosis with proximal and distal nerve stumps. This technique creates an autogenous vein conduit with the collagen-rich adventitial surface exposed to the regenerating axons. The inside-out technique is a fast and simple modification of the standard vein graft technique and produces an accelerated rate of nerve regeneration and significantly earlier myelination compared with the results obtained from the use of polyethylene nerve guides and standard vein graft conduits.
Free fibular transfer in a growing individual (long-term results).	We present a case report of a 4-year-old in whom the distal fibula and epiphyseal plate had been traumatically destroyed. A free vascularized epiphyseal transfer using the ipsilateral proximal fibula was performed which provided good bony stability at the ankle, as well as excellent long-term growth characteristics. We demonstrate immediate postoperative results, as well as long-term (5 years) follow-up.
Percutaneous autogenous bone marrow grafting in 20 cases of ununited fracture.	We grafted autogenous bone marrow percutaneously to stimulate healing in 20 ununited long bone fractures. 15-20 mL of bone marrow was injected twice, with an interval of 3 weeks. All cases were immobilized in a plaster cast. 17 cases united in 5 (3-7) months.
Free transfer of the greater omentum.	Thirty-seven patients with various coverage problems and with lower extremity occlusive disease underwent free transfer of the greater omentum into the defect with a favorable clinical success rate. There are a number of advantages of this technique for such reconstructive problems.
Cross thumb transfer.	Thumb reconstruction following amputation was accomplished by microvascular transfer of the thumb from the contralateral paralyzed hand in two cases. The appearance and function of the transferred thumbs were excellent and no problem was seen in the donor hand.
Fat cylinder transplantation: an experimental comparative study of three different kinds of fat transplants.	In an experimental comparative study, fat cylinders harvested with a new instrument were compared with excised fat and aspirated fat. In 12 New Zealand White rabbits, fat grafts of about 1 ml were transplanted from the fat pad between the shoulders to the scalp and rear side of the ears by three different fat harvesting techniques. After 6 months, the change in the weight of each of the 36 specimens was measured. All specimens were freeze-cut after fixation and stained with Sudan IV, a fat-specific stain. They were examined under a light microscope and evaluated by computer-assisted image analysis. There was no statistical difference in the percentage change in weight between the excised fat and the fat cylinder groups (2 and 1 percent, respectively). For aspirated fat, however, the difference was significant (-59 percent). There also were significantly more surviving mature adipocytes in the fat cylinder group than in the aspirated fat group. We conclude that fat cylinders harvested with the new instrument are as good grafting material as excised fat, while aspirated fat in this study was clearly inferior for grafting.
Use of gene marking in bone marrow transplantation.	We have used gene marking to investigate the mechanism of relapse and biology of reconstitution following bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The rationale for our initial protocols was to learn if residual malignant cells in autologous marrow contribute to subsequent relapse. Marked malignant cells were found at the time of relapse in 6/8 patients relapsing after autologous BMT for AML or neuroblastoma showing the infused marrow contributed to disease recurrence. Modifications of this marker approach with two distinguishable vectors are now being used to compare the efficacy of purging techniques. We were also able to evaluate gene transfer to normal progenitors and demonstrated that the marker gene was expressed for up to 36 months. Gene marking is also being used to trace the fate of EBV-specific CTLs that we are administering to recipients of allogeneic BMT and has provided evidence of persistence of adoptively transferred CTL for up to 10 months.
The strip graft as a means of hairline replacement.	The strip-graft hairline replacement is a surgical procedure requiring meticulous tissue handling and attention to detail. Even then, the unpredictability of successful "takes" causes the cosmetic surgeon some concern. When combined with the original Orentreich autograft technique it can be valuable in the surgical treatment of male pattern baldness.
Use of vein loops in reconstructive procedures.	The use of a temporary arteriovenous fistula prior to flap harvesting was suggested by Threlfall in 1982 (Threlfall, Aust NZ J Surg 52:182-184, 1982). The basic idea is to use long venous grafts that can be branched side-to-end to a main artery at an easily accessible level using one of the well-established exposures from general vascular surgery. In reconstructive microsurgery, AV-loops are used in limb salvage procedures and in cancer surgery. These patients have often undergone previous surgery and additional radiotherapy. AV-loops facilitate the use of normal recipient vessels out of the zone of injury, or far away from scar or irradiated tissue.
