HoxA10 regulates transcription of the gene encoding transforming growth factor beta2 (TGFbeta2) in myeloid cells.	HoxA10 is a homeodomain transcription factor that is maximally expressed in myeloid progenitor cells. HoxA10 is overexpressed in a poor prognosis subset of human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and in vivo overexpression of HoxA10 in murine bone marrow induces myeloid leukemia. HoxA10 contributes to myeloid progenitor expansion and differentiation block, but few target genes have been identified that explain the influence of HoxA10 on these processes. The current study identifies the gene encoding transforming growth factor β2 (TGFβ2) as a HoxA10 target gene. We found that HoxA10 activated TGFβ2 transcription by interacting with tandem cis elements in the promoter. We also determined that HoxA10 overexpression in myeloid progenitor cells increased Tgfβ2 production by the cells. Tgfβ2 stimulates proliferation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Therefore, these studies identified autocrine stimulation of myeloid progenitors by Tgfβ2 as one mechanism by which HoxA10 expands this population. Because HoxA proteins had not been previously known to influence expression of pro-proliferative cytokines, this has implications for understanding molecular mechanisms involved in progenitor expansion and the pathobiology of AML.
Expression of transforming growth factor β and fibroblast growth factor 2 in the lens epithelium of Morioka cataract mice.	In the Morioka cataract (MCT) mice, lens opacity appears at 6 to 8 weeks of age, and swollen lens fiber is electron-microscopically observed at 3 weeks after birth. The present study was designed to characterize the expression of transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) in the lens epithelium of the MCT mice. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that the expression of TGFβ in the lens epithelium of the MCT mice was stronger than that of the wild-type ddY mice at 2 and 4 weeks after birth. The expression of TGFβ receptors (TGFβRI and TGFβRII) and FGF2 in the lens epithelium of the MCT mice was stronger than that of the wild-type ddY mice at 4 weeks and weaker than that of the wild-type ddY mice at 15 weeks after birth. Using real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that expression of TGFβ1 and TGFβ2 mRNA in the lens of 2-week-old MCT mice was significantly higher compared to age-matched wild-type ddY mice. These findings indicate that the lens epithelium of MCT mice has increased expression of TGFβ before cataract affection and that changes in the expression of FGF2 as well as TGFβ may contribute to the progression of the cataract in the mice. 
