Special conditions: modified Boeing Model 767-200 and -300 series airplanes; installation of a medical oxygen system utilizing liquid oxygen--Federal Aviation Administration. Final special conditions; request for comments.	These special conditions are issued to E-Systems for design of Civil Reserve Air Fleet aeromedical evacuation ship set kits used to modify Boeing Model 767-200 and -300 series airplanes. Removal of existing passenger seats and installation of the kit will result in these airplanes being equipped with an aeromedical evacuation interior that can accommodate up to 111 litter patients and their attendants. The aeromedical evacuation ship set kit includes an additional oxygen system, utilizing liquid oxygen for storage, that provides medical oxygen for the litter patients. The applicable regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for the design and installation of liquid oxygen systems. These special conditions contain the additional safety standards which the Administrator considers necessary to ensure that the design and installation of the liquid oxygen system is such that a level of safety equal to that intended by the applicable regulations is provided.
Do emergency departments comply with the rules of patient transportation?]	Emergency departments must comply with the rules of patient transportation. The aim of this study was to find out the compliance of the emergency departments in our region with patient transport the rules and regulations. 180 patients transported to our emergency department by an ambulance from another hospital, between 01.05.1999-01.07.1999 were analyzed. ACEP's (American College of Emergency Physicians) patient transportation rules were taken as a reference for comparison. Our findings have shown that the compliance to these rules is insufficient. Results of the study, will be presented to our colleagues working in the emergency departments in our region, in one of our monthly trauma meetings. State Department of health in the city, two state hospitals and Social Security hospitals in the region will also be informed about the results so that certain guidelines for better patient transportation can be established in the region.
Hospital "full"--must the emergency physician go farther?]	All beds in the surgical department of a hospital are occupied. The dispatch center is announcing a rescue unit transporting a heavy injured casualty. The surgeon is running to the emergency room. What to do under the view of the german legal system?
