Tissue expression and translational control of rat kynurenine aminotransferase/glutamine transaminase K mRNAs.	Kynurenic acid (KA) is an endogenous glutamate receptor antagonist at the level of the different ionotropic glutamate receptors. One of the enzymes responsible for the production of KA, kynurenine aminotransferase I (KATI), also catalyses the reversible transamination of glutamine to oxoglutaramic acid (GTK, EC 2.6.1.15). The enzyme exists in a cytosolic and in a mitochondrial form because of the presence of two different KATI mRNAs coding for a protein respectively with and without leader sequence targeting the protein into mitochondria. We have cloned from a phage library of rat kidney cDNA four new KATI cDNAs containing different 5' untranslated regions (UTRs). One of the transcripts (+14KATI cDNA) contains an alternative site of initiation of translation. The tissue distribution of the different transcripts was studied by RT-PCR. The study demonstrated that several KATI mRNAs are constitutively expressed in ubiquitous manner, while +14KATI mRNA is present only in kidney. The translational efficiency of the different transcripts was studied in vitro and enzymatic activities were measured in transiently transfected Cos-1 cells. Each KATI mRNA exhibits a different in vitro translational efficiency, which corresponds to different levels of KAT enzymatic activity in transfected cells. Both findings correlate with the predicted accessibility of the ribosomal binding sites of the different mRNAs. The structure of the rat KATI/GTK gene was also studied. The expression of several KATI mRNAs with different 5'UTRs represents an interesting example of transcriptional/translational control on the expression of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP)-dependent aminotransferases.
Aromatic amino acid aminotransferase activity and indole-3-acetic acid production by associative nitrogen-fixing bacteria.	In this work, we report the detection of aromatic amino acid aminotransferase (AAT) activity from cell-free crude extracts of nine strains of N(2)-fixing bacteria from three genera. Using tyrosine as substrate, AAT activity ranged in specific activity from 0.084 to 0.404 micromol min(-1)mg(-1). When analyzed under non-denaturating PAGE conditions; and using tryptophan, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and histidine as substrates Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 showed three isoforms with molecular mass of 46, 68 and 86 kDa, respectively; Azospirillum strains displayed two isoforms which molecular mass ranged from 44 to 66 kDa and Gluconacetobacter strains revealed one enzyme, which molecular mass was estimated to be much more higher than those of Azospirillum and P. stutzeri strains. After SDS-PAGE, some AAT activity was lost, indicating a differential stability of proteins. All the strains tested produced IAA, especially with tryptophan as precursor. Azospirillum strains produced the highest concentrations of IAA (16.5-38 microg IAA/mg protein), whereas Gluconacetobacter and P. stutzeri strains produced lower concentrations of IAA ranging from 1 to 2.9 microg/mg protein in culture medium supplemented with tryptophan. The IAA production may enable bacteria promote a growth-promoting effect in plants, in addition to their nitrogen fixing ability.
Exacerbation of oral erosive lichen planus by combination of interferon and ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis C.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) induces extrahepatic manifestations such as oral lichen planus (OLP) as well as chronic liver diseases. The treatment of HCV-related chronic liver disease has evolved from the use of a single agent, mainly interferon (IFN), to the combination of IFN and ribavirin. We present a case of erosive OLP, cutaneous lichen planus (CLP), and leukoplakia of the vocal cord in a man with chronic hepatitis C infection treated with IFN and ribavirin. A 65-year-old man suffered from OLP before undergoing combination of IFN and ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis C. He was initially treated with IFNbeta (6 million units (MU) /day for 2 weeks), then a combination of IFNalpha-2b (6 MU/day for 2 weeks and 3 times a week for 14 weeks) and ribavirin (400-600 mg/day). The OLP lesion was not aggravated by application of steroids during the 7 weeks after the treatment, but after 18 weeks, the combination of IFN and ribavirin was stopped because of aggravation of the OLP. Elevated aminotransferase levels returned to normal during the therapy. But 7 weeks after discontinuation, aminotransferase levels rose to 10 times the normal range. Five months after discontinuation, the papules of CLP appeared. Eight months after discontinuation, the OLP erosion had gradually reduced, but some erosion remained. Aminotransferase levels were decreased, but serum HCV RNA had not disappeared. Caution should be exercised when IFN or ribavirin therapy is given to chronic hepatitis C patients with prior erosive OLP.
Branched-chain fatty acid biosynthesis in a branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase mutant of Staphylococcus carnosus.	Fatty acid biosynthesis by a mutant strain of Staphylococcus carnosus deficient in branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase (IlvE) activity was analysed. This mutant was unable to produce the appropriate branched-chain alpha-ketoacid precursors for branched-chain fatty acid biosynthesis from the amino acids valine, isoleucine, and leucine, and required the short branched chain acids 2-methylbutanoic acid or 2-methylpropanoic acid for growth in a defined medium. The isoleucine related metabolites, alpha-keto-beta-methylvaleric acid and 2-methylbutanal also served as growth factors. Growth in rich medium and growth in defined medium supplemented with 2-methylpropanoic acid lead to extensive alteration of the fatty acid composition in the cell membrane. In rich medium, a change from 51.7% to 17.1% anteiso-C15:0, and from 3.6% to 33.9% iso-C14:0 fatty acids as compared to the wild-type strain was observed. Despite the deficiency in IlvE activity, the mutant strain was still able to produce the short chain carboxylic acids, 3-methylbutanoic acid and 2-methylpropanoic acid when cultivated in rich medium. Supplementation experiments employing deuterated glucose induced the valine biosynthetic pathway for 2-methylpropanoic acid production, revealing that the IlvE protein plays an important, but not essential role in the biosynthesis of branched-chain fatty acids and secondary metabolites in S. carnosus.
Differential expression and prognostic significance of SOX genes in pediatric medulloblastoma and ependymoma identified by microarray analysis.	The objective of this study was to identify differentially expressed and prognostically important genes in pediatric medulloblastoma and pediatric ependymoma by Affymetrix microarray analysis. Among the most discriminative genes, three members of the SOX transcription factor family were differentially expressed. Both SOX4 and SOX11 were significantly overexpressed in medulloblastoma (median, 11-fold and 5-fold, respectively) compared with ependymoma and normal cerebellum. SOX9 had greater expression in ependymoma (median, 16-fold) compared with normal cerebellum and medulloblastoma (p<0.001 for all comparisons). The differential expression of the SOX genes was confirmed at the protein level by immunohistochemical analysis. Survival analysis of the most discriminative probe sets for each subgroup showed that 35 and 13 probe sets were predictive of survival in patients with medulloblastoma and ependymoma, respectively. There was a trend toward better survival with increasing SOX4 expression in medulloblastoma. SOX9 expression was predictive for favorable outcome in ependymoma. The mRNA levels of BCAT1, a mediator of amino acid breakdown, were higher (median, 15-fold) in medulloblastoma patients with metastases compared with those without metastasized disease (p<0.01). However, the correlation between BCAT1 expression and metastatic medulloblastoma could not be confirmed at the protein level. The potential prognostic effect of the genes associated with outcome should be evaluated in ongoing studies using larger groups of patients. Furthermore, our findings support further analysis of the functional properties of the selected genes, especially SOX4 and BCAT1 for medulloblastoma and SOX9 for ependymoma, to evaluate the use of these genes as potential tumor markers, prognostic markers, and drug targets in pediatric brain tumors.
Expression of Escherichia coli pabA.	Escherichia coli pabA encodes the glutamine amidotransferase subunit of p-aminobenzoate synthase. p-Aminobenzoate synthase catalyzes the conversion of chorismate and glutamine to 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate, which is then converted to p-aminobenzoate by a 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate lyase. The 5'-terminal segment of pabA was previously shown to be transcribed from two different promoters, one near the pabA coding sequence (P1) and one preceding fic (P2). However, a pabA-lacZ translational fusion was expressed only from the mRNA originating at P1. We have determined that expression of a pabA-lacZ chromosomal fusion is not changed by p-aminobenzoate limitation, growth rate, catabolite repression, overexpression of either p-aminobenzoate synthase subunit, or gene dosage of pabA and pabB. The lack of pabA expression from P2 appears to be the result of a stable secondary structure in the intergenic space preceding pabA that sequesters the pabA ribosome binding site. Disruption of the secondary structure by mutation allowed expression of pabA from P2, as did translation of ribosomes into the fic-pabA intergenic region.
BarR, an Lrp-type transcription factor in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius, regulates an aminotransferase gene in a β-alanine responsive manner.	In archaea, nothing is known about the β-alanine degradation pathway or its regulation. In this work, we identify and characterize BarR, a novel Lrp-like transcription factor and the first one that has a non-proteinogenic amino acid ligand. BarR is conserved in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius and Sulfolobus tokodaii and is located in a divergent operon with a gene predicted to encode β-alanine aminotransferase. Deletion of barR resulted in a reduced exponential growth rate in the presence of β-alanine. Furthermore, qRT-PCR and promoter activity assays demonstrated that BarR activates the expression of the adjacent aminotransferase gene, but only upon β-alanine supplementation. In contrast, auto-activation proved to be β-alanine independent. Heterologously produced BarR is an octamer in solution and forms a single complex by interacting with multiple sites in the 170 bp long intergenic region separating the divergently transcribed genes. In vitro, DNA binding is specifically responsive to β-alanine and site-mutant analyses indicated that β-alanine directly interacts with the ligand-binding pocket. Altogether, this work contributes to the growing body of evidence that in archaea, Lrp-like transcription factors have physiological roles that go beyond the regulation of α-amino acid metabolism. 
Repression of 3-deoxy-D-arabinoheptulosonic acid-7-phosphate synthetase (trp) and enzymes of the tryptophan pathway in Escherichia coli K-12.	Mutant strains of Escherichia coli K-12 have been isolated in which the synthesis of 3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonic acid-7-phosphate (DAHP) synthetase (trp) is partially constitutive. The mutation causing derepression is closely linked to aroH [the structural gene for DAHP synthetase (trp)] and occurs in a locus designated aroJ. The aroJ mutation is not recessive in an aroJ(+)/aroJ(-) diploid strain, as the synthesis of DAHP synthetase (trp) is still derepressed in this strain. On the basis of its close linkage to aroH and its continued expression in an aroJ(+)/aroJ(-) diploid, it is postulated that aroJ is an operator locus controlling the expression of the structural gene aroH. In support of this conclusion, the synthesis of anthranilate synthetase is still normally repressible in aroJ(-) strains, whereas, in trpR(-) strains, both DAHP synthetase (trp) and anthranilate synthetase are synthesized constitutively. The synthesis of DAHP synthetase (trp) remains repressible in an operator-constitutive mutant of the tryptophan operon. In two trpS mutants which possess defective tryptophanyl transfer ribonucleic acid synthetase enzymes, neither DAHP synthetase (trp) nor anthranilate synthetase derepress under conditions in which the defective synthetase causes a decrease in growth rate. On the other hand, an effect of the trpS mutant alleles on the level of anthranilate synthetase has been observed in strains which are derepressed for the synthesis of this enzyme, because of a mutation in the gene trpR. Possible explanations for this effect are presented.
Use of yeast populations fractionated by zonal centrifugation to study the cell cycle.	Zonal centrifugation in a sucrose density gradient was used to separate yeast cells primarily by size and thus by age in the cell cycle. This approach provides an alternative to synchronous growth for examining the properties of cells at different stages in the cell cycle.
Glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase activities in primary cultures of astrocytes and neurons and in embryonic chick forebrain: marked induction of brain glutamine transaminase K at time of hatching.	Glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase activities are present in the chick brain and in the brains of adult mice, rats, and humans. However, the activity of glutamine transaminase K in adult mouse brain is relatively low. In the chick embryo, cerebral glutamine transaminase K activity is low between embryonic days 5 and 17, but by day 23 (day of hatching) activity rises dramatically (> 15-fold). Cerebral omega-amidase activity is relatively high at embryonic day 5 but lower between days 5 and 17; at embryonic day 23 the activity rises to a maximum. Both glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase are present in cultured chick, rat, and mouse astrocytes and neurons. For each species, the activity of glutamine transaminase K is higher in the astrocytes than in the neurons. The activity of omega-amidase is about the same in the cultured chick astrocytes and neurons but significantly higher in rat astrocytes than in rat neurons. The data suggest that the rise in brain glutamine transaminase K activity in the chick embryo at hatching correlates with maturation of astrocytes. Glutamine transaminase K may be involved in glutamine cycling in astrocytes. Glutamine transaminase K appears to be a major cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase of the brain and may play a role in the neurotoxicity associated with exposure to dichloroacetylene and perhaps to other toxins.
Function of hisF and hisH gene products in histidine biosynthesis.	A mutant of the enterobacterium Klebsiella pneumoniae with a defect in the hisF gene (in the histidine biosynthesis pathway) was isolated, which can only grow with high but not low ammonia concentrations. The mutated hisF product can use ammonia for the formation of the imidazole ring of histidine but not glutamine provided by the hisH product. Site-directed insertional mutagenesis of hisH led to the same dependence of prototrophic growth on high ammonia levels. The nucleotide sequence of K. pneumoniae hisF is almost identical to that of hisF from other enterobacteria. Similarities of the hisF product with the hisA product and of HisH sequences with the glutamine binding domains of TrpG-type amidotransferases provide additional evidence for the functions of the hisF and hisH products in histidine biosynthesis, namely that HisF catalyzes the ammonolytic cleavage of N'-(5'-phosphoribulosyl)-formimino-5- aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide either utilizing free ammonia or deriving the ammonia moiety from glutamine bound to HisH.
Metabolic engineering of cephalosporin biosynthesis in Streptomyces clavuligerus.	The biosynthesis of beta-lactams is one of the most thoroughly studied antibiotic pathways.  The availability of the characteristics and the time profiles of activities of enzymes involved in the biosynthesis allows one to critically evaluate the potential rate-limiting steps in its production.  Our approach to understanding the control of beta-lactam biosynthesis has been pursued using a two-stage strategy: (1) to predict the rate-limiting steps using a kinetic model and (2) to relax the rate-limiting steps by engineering the biosynthetic pathway or by altering the kinetic parameters of the predicted key rate-limiting enzyme.  Kinetic analysis of the pathway dynamics of cephamycin C production in Streptomyces clavuligerus was performed using data obtained from wild type.  Sensitivity analysis revealed that the availability of precursor alpha-aminoadipic acid and activity of ACV synthetase were the potential rate-limiting steps.  Relaxation of the precursor limitation was accomplished by integration of an additional copy of the gene encoding lysine-epsilon-aminotransferase (lat) into the chromosome.  The recombinant strain showed an increased level of cephamycin C production as expected.  The intracellular levels of different intermediates in the pathway in batch cultures were analyzed.
Fenofibrate modifies transaminase gene expression via a peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha-dependent pathway.	Fibrates modify the expression of genes implicated in lipoprotein and fatty acid metabolism via the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha(PPARalpha), leading to reductions in serum triglycerides and cholesterol. The expression of certain genes regulated by PPARalpha have been shown to be modified in a species dependent manner. Aspartate aminotransferase (AspAT or GOT) and alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT or GPT) are enzymes involved in intermediate metabolism in all cells and in hepatic gluconeogenesis. These enzymes are also widely used as serum markers of possible tissue damage. This study investigated whether fenofibrate could modify the expression of liver AspAT and/or AlaAT and thus possibly alter transaminase levels independently of a cytotoxic effect. In human Hep G2 cells, fenofibrate increased cytosolic AspAT (cAspAT) activity by 40% and AlaAT activity by 100%, as well as both mRNAs. Nuclear run on assays showed that this effect was, at least in part, transcriptional. Increases in mRNA were also observed in human hepatocyte cultures at concentrations of the drug attained in patients. In C57BL/6 mice, fenofibrate decreased cAspAT and cAlaAT mRNA, while these effects were abolished in PPARalpha knock-out mice. In conclusion, fenofibrate has been shown to modify cAspAT and AlaAT gene expression in a species and PPARalpha dependent manner. This is the first demonstration that cAspAT and AlaAT activities may be pharmacologically altered, independently of a toxic phenomenon.
