Human embryonic germ cell derivatives facilitate motor recovery of rats with diffuse motor neuron injury.	We have investigated the potential of human pluripotent cells to restore function in rats paralyzed with a virus-induced motor neuronopathy. Cells derived from embryonic germ cells, termed embryoid body-derived (EBD) cells, introduced into the CSF were distributed extensively over the rostrocaudal length of the spinal cord and migrated into the spinal cord parenchyma in paralyzed, but not uninjured, animals. Some of the transplanted human cells expressed the neuroglial progenitor marker nestin, whereas others expressed immunohistochemical markers characteristic of astrocytes or mature neurons. Rare transplanted cells developed immunoreactivity to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and sent axons into the sciatic nerve as detected by retrograde labeling. Paralyzed animals transplanted with EBD cells partially recovered motor function 12 and 24 weeks after transplantation, whereas control animals remained paralyzed. Semi-quantitative analysis revealed that the efficiency of neuronal differentiation and extension of neurites could not account for the functional recovery. Rather, transplanted EBD cells protected host neurons from death and facilitated reafferentation of motor neuron cell bodies. In vitro, EBD cells secrete transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Neutralizing antibodies to TGF-alpha and to BDNF abrogated the ability of EBD-conditioned media to sustain motor neuron survival in culture, whereas neutralizing antibodies to BDNF eliminated the axonal outgrowth from spinal organotypics observed with direct coculture of EBD cells. We conclude that cells derived from human pluripotent stem cells have the capacity to restore neurologic function in animals with diffuse motor neuron disease via enhancement of host neuron survival and function.
Increased expression of EGFR and TGF-alpha in segmental renal dysplasia in duplex kidney.	Renal dysplasia (RD) is a disorganised development of renal parenchyma that results in a deficit of functional renal tissue. It is known that the epidermal growth factor (EGF) and the transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) enhance renal cell proliferation, migration and differentiation during kidney development through binding to the same EGF receptor (EGFR). The aim of the study was to analyse the expression of TGF-alpha and EGFR in the dysplastic kidney. The specimens of dysplastic upper poles duplex kidneys were surgically resected from 19 patients. Indirect immunohistochemistry was performed using the ABC method employing antibodies against EGFR and TGF-alpha, and gene expression using primers specific to the human genes. There was absent or weak EGFR and TGF-alpha immunoreactivity in normal kidney tissue. In dysplastic kidneys, there was strong TGF-alpha and EGFR immunoreactivity in the epithelium of primitive tubules and strong EGFR immunoreactivity in the connective tissue around the primitive tubules. Our findings of markedly increased local expression of EGFR and TGF-alpha in primitive tubules suggest that EGFR and TGF-alpha may play an important role in altering renal morphogenesis resulting in renal dysplasia.
Enhanced TGFalpha-EGFR expression and P53 gene alterations contributes to gastric tumors aggressiveness.	We determined whether alterations in the expression of p53, p16(INK4) and p21(WAF1/CIP1) influence the invasiveness of a subset of gastric adenocarcinomas co-expressing TGFalpha and EGFR. Immunopositivity for TGFalpha-EGFR (26%) was observed in both early and advanced adenocarcinomas, and 88% of these showed immunoreactivity for p53. SSCP analysis revealed that in 81% of these tumors the p53 gene was mutated in exons 5-8. The intensity of p53 immunoreactivity was significantly higher (P < 0.013) in deeply invasive tumors. p16(INK4) and p21(WAF1/CIP1) immunoreactivity was detected in 93 and 76% of the samples co-expressing TGFalpha-EGFR but the levels were not correlated with those of p53 and other clinico-pathological parameters. We conclude that gastric adenocarcinomas potentially dependent upon the TGFalpha-EGFR autocrine loop for growing exhibit increased aggressiveness in the presence of aberrant p53.
Expression of transforming growth factor-alpha in gastric carcinoma and normal gastric mucosa cells.	The presence of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) was studied in a total of 120 consecutive patients with gastric carcinomas. This immunohistochemical study found TGF-alpha expression in 60% (n = 72) of carcinomas. It also was detected in normal gastric epithelial mucosa in 36% (n = 43) of specimens. There was no significant statistical correlation between TGF-alpha expression and clinical features (e.g., patient age and sex) or pathologic features (e.g., tumor stage, grade, and localization or growth pattern according to an earlier histologic classification). Expression of TGF-alpha by these tumor cells had no influence on prognosis. It was neither a histopathologic marker of high malignancy nor a useful prognostic tool. It had no influence on the invasive growth pattern of gastric carcinoma.
Expression of angiogenic growth factor genes in primary human astrocytomas may contribute to their growth and progression.	Astrocytomas are highly malignant brain tumors and are among the most neovascularized solid tumors. We have investigated the expression of the angiogenic growth factors acidic fibroblast growth factor and transforming growth factor-alpha, together with its receptor epidermal growth factor receptor, in 30 primary astrocytomas. Both acidic fibroblast growth factor and transforming growth factor-alpha, together with epidermal growth factor receptor, are found to be greatly overexpressed in these tumors when compared with normal brain. This overexpression of angiogenic growth factors may underlie the intense neovascularization characteristic of astrocytomas.
Constitutive expression of transforming growth factor alpha does not transform rat thyroid epithelial cells.	To evaluate the role of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) in transformed rat thyroid epithelial cells, expression and production of TGF alpha were measured in a normal rat thyroid epithelial cell line, FRTL-5, and in the same cells transformed by the Ki-ras oncogene. FRTL-5 cells transformed with Ki-ras exhibit a 5- to 7-fold increase in the levels of TGF alpha-specific mRNA and a 3- to 4-fold enhancement of the amounts of TGF alpha protein in the conditioned medium, as compared with the normal thyroid cells. Although conditioned medium from the Ki-ras transformed FRTL-5 cells or authentic epidermal growth factor or TGF alpha are able to stimulate the anchorage-dependent growth of nontransformed FRTL-5 cells, neither conditioned medium nor the growth factors are able to induce the anchorage-independent growth of these cells in soft agar. FRTL-5 cells were then transfected with an expression vector plasmid containing the human TGF alpha cDNA to directly ascertain if over-expression of this growth factor is able to induce transformation in these cells. The TGF alpha-transfected FRTL-5 clones constitutively produced high amounts of TGF alpha at a level equivalent to or greater than the level found in the conditioned medium from the Ki-ras transformed FRTL-5 clones. Moreover, in contrast to the Ki-ras transformed cells, the TGF alpha transfectants were unable to grow in soft agar, did not form tumors in nude mice, and showed no reduction in the secretion of thyroglobulin. These data demonstrate that unlike Ki-ras, the constitutive expression of biologically active TGF alpha is not entirely sufficient to elicit a transformed phenotype in these cells.
Transforming growth factors beta 1 and alpha in chronic liver disease. Effects of interferon alfa therapy.	Cirrhosis is a diffuse process of hepatic fibrosis and regenerative nodule formation of unknown pathogenesis. Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta 1 induces the production of extracellular matrix proteins by liver cells and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis in laboratory animals. TGF alpha is a hepatocyte mitogen that participates in liver regeneration.
Cleavage of the membrane precursor for transforming growth factor alpha is a regulated process.	Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) is generated by cleavage of a membrane-anchored precursor protein, proTGF-alpha. ProTGF-alpha is cleaved at a slow rate and accumulates on the cell surface, thereby mediating cell-cell adhesion and mitogenic stimulation. We show here that cleavage of membrane proTGF-alpha by an elastase-like enzyme constitutes an important regulatory step in the generation of soluble TGF-alpha. Cleavage is activated in response to serum factors and tumor-promoting phorbol esters, leading to depletion of cell surface proTGF-alpha, which disperses as soluble factor. Activation of proTGF-alpha cleavage is mediated by protein kinase C-dependent and -independent mechanisms. The results demonstrate the existence of mechanisms that control the switch of TGF-alpha from a juxtacrine to a paracrine growth factor.
Evidence for autocrine/paracrine growth stimulation by transforming growth factor-alpha during the process of skin tumor promotion.	A single topical application of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) to mouse skin decreased 125I-labeled epidermal growth factor (EGF) binding in epidermal membrane preparations within 1 h while 1,8-dihydroxy-3-methyl-9-anthrone (chrysarobin) gradually reduced binding with maximum inhibition at 15 h. Subsequently, 125I-EGF binding increased to approximately 200% of control in epidermal membrane preparations from both TPA- and chrysarobin-treated mice. A single application of TPA but not chrysarobin resulted in a rapid translocation of protein kinase C (PKC) to the membrane; however, treatment with both promoters ultimately led to a time-dependent loss of PKC activity in both membrane and cytosol fractions. The initial inhibition of 125I-EGF binding was sustained for at least 24 h after single and multiple treatments with both promoting agents. Acid washing restored EGF binding to control levels in membrane preparations obtained 24 h after a single application, whereas acid washing of membrane preparations obtained 24 h after a second application of TPA or chrysarobin increased binding (2.5-fold and 1.5-fold that of the control, respectively). The presence of increased amounts of ligands for the EGF receptor in tumor promoter-treated epidermis was initially confirmed in 125I-EGF binding competition experiments using NRK-49F cells. A single topical application of TPA or chrysarobin induced elevated levels of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) mRNA at 6 h or 15-24 h, respectively. Elevated levels of a TGF-alpha precursor (21 kDa) were subsequently observed in cytosol and membrane preparations after single and multiple applications of TPA or chrysarobin. These results suggest that repeated topical application of tumor promoters may lead to sustained loss of a negative-feedback mechanism involving phosphorylation at Thr-654 of the EGF receptor by PKC. The concomitant elevation of ligands, such as TGF-alpha, may provide a mechanism for sustained cell proliferation essential for skin tumor promotion.
Human and mouse adipose-derived cells support feeder-independent induction of pluripotent stem cells.	Although adipose tissue is an expandable and readily attainable source of proliferating, multipotent stem cells, its potential for use in regenerative medicine has not been extensively explored. Here we report that adult human and mouse adipose-derived stem cells can be reprogrammed to induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells with substantially higher efficiencies than those reported for human and mouse fibroblasts. Unexpectedly, both human and mouse iPS cells can be obtained in feeder-free conditions. We discovered that adipose-derived stem cells intrinsically express high levels of pluripotency factors such as basic FGF, TGFbeta, fibronectin, and vitronectin and can serve as feeders for both autologous and heterologous pluripotent cells. These results demonstrate a great potential for adipose-derived cells in regenerative therapeutics and as a model for studying the molecular mechanisms of feeder-free iPS generation and maintenance.
Effect of hyperthermia on invasion ability and TGF-β1 expression of breast carcinoma MCF-7 cells.	The present study aimed to investigate heating-induced alterations of breast cancer cell invasion abilities and the potential mechanisms associated with TGF-β1 expression. MCF-7 cells were heated at 43, 45, 47 and 37 °C for 30 min. In vitro cell invasion ability was evaluated by matrigel invasion assay. The activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2/9 was investigated by gelatin zymographic assays. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) was investigated by immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR. Apoptosis was analysed by flow-cytometry. The invasive potential of MCF-7 cells was reduced by heating, and MMP-2/9 secretion and enzymatic activity were suppressed. Furthermore, VEGF and TGF-β1 mRNA and proteins were suppressed by hyperthermia. These results suggest that down-regulation of the expression of TGF-β1, EGF and MMPs by hyperthermia probably accounts for the inhibition of the invasive abilities of MCF-7 cells.
Significance of epithelial growth factor in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition of human gallbladder cancer cells.	Five gallbladder cancer (GBC) cell lines were examined for morphological changes in collagen gel culture. GBh3 and HUCCT-1 cells formed tubules in response to treatment with epithelial growth factor (EGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and showed high levels of expression of E-cadherin (ECD), and low levels of SNAIL, vimentin, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, and nucleostemin (NS). In contrast, the GBd15 and FU-GBC-1 cell lines treated with EGF and HGF showed a scattering phenotype, and expressed low levels of ECD and high levels of SNAIL, vimentin, TGF-β, and NS. All cell lines expressed the EGF receptor, c-Met, EGF, and TGF-α, but not HGF. Transforming growth factor-β was upregulated by EGF. Knockdown of the EGF receptor abrogated both tubule formation and scattering, whereas KD of TGF-β abrogated only scattering. Knockdown of EGF induced nuclear translocation of β-catenin and Wnt-related NS induction in the scattering cell lines, but not in the tubule-forming cell lines, whereas KD of glycogen synthase kinase-3β in the tubule-forming cell lines resulted in the nuclear translocation of β-catenin and Wnt-related NS induction in response to EGF treatment. These results suggest that EGF enhances epithelial-mesenchymal transformation and acquisition of stemness in GBC cells with a scattering phenotype through the activity of β-catenin. Repression of ECD in scattering GBC cells induced the release of β-catenin from the cell adhesion complexes along the plasma membrane and its translocation to the nucleus to activate Wnt signaling, which upregulated NS.
Stress influence on development of hepatocellular tumors in transgenic mice overexpressing TGF alpha.	We investigated whether stress increases tumorigenesis in male transgenic mice that overexpress the gene encoding human transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha). At the age of 10-15 months, these mice begin to develop spontaneous hepatocellular carcinomas at high incidence. The male TGF alpha mice were housed with their siblings (non-stressful environment), housed in social isolation, or housed with aggressive non-siblings (stressful environment). Some animals in each group were exposed once a week to a second stressor (swim stress), beginning at the age of 7 months. Housing with aggressive non-siblings increased neoplastic growth in the male TGF alpha mice: the incidence and multiplicity of liver tumors, and tumor burden were higher in these animals than in the sibling-housed mice. Among the isolated TGF alpha mice, only the tumor burden was increased, when compared with the sibling-housed TGF alpha mice. Swim stress significantly increased the incidence of liver tumors and tumor burden in the sibling-housed TGF alpha mice. Plasma levels of 17 beta-estradiol (E2) that are elevated in the TGF alpha mice, were modestly but significantly higher in the non-sibling housed transgenic mice than in the sibling-housed. Natural killer (NK) cell activity, reduced in these mice, was not affected by housing environment. These data suggest that stress promotes the growth of hepatocellular tumors in the male TGF alpha mice. Whether estrogens are involved in mediating this association remains to be determined.
Interruption of a transforming growth factor alpha autocrine loop in Caco-2 cells by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides.	We have previously shown that Caco-2 cell proliferation is driven by basolateral membrane epidermal growth factor receptors. The aim of this study was to investigate whether autocrine production of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) activates these receptors and stimulates proliferation using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides.
Expression of mRNA for epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha and their receptor in human prostate tissue and cell lines.	Enhanced expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or its ligands, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) can increase signalling via receptor-mediated pathways which may lead to excessive proliferation and cellular transformation. Such autocrine regulation of growth has been demonstrated for prostate cancer cell lines in culture but its role in prostate cancer in vivo has not been established. To assess the potential of such a mechanism, we have examined the pathway components in prostate carcinomas (CaP) in comparison with non-malignant benign prostatic hyperplasias (BPH). In the present study, we investigate the dosage, structure and expression of EGF, TGF-alpha and EGFR genes in a series of 34 human prostate samples and 3 prostate cancer cell lines. All of the samples contained transcripts from each of the genes. The expression of pre-pro-TGF-alpha mRNA and pre-pro-EGF mRNA were significantly higher in CaP (n = 13) than BPH (n = 21) specimens (p < 0.05). The androgen-responsive prostatic carcinoma cell line, LNCaP, expressed high levels of EGF mRNA while the androgen-independent DU145 and PC-3 cell lines expressed high levels of TGF-alpha mRNA and EGFR mRNA. In general, overexpression of these mRNAs was not associated with amplification or detectable gene rearrangement; only DU145 cells demonstrated any alteration in these genes, with apparent amplification of the TGF-alpha gene. Relative to BPH, all prostate carcinomas and cell lines studied had elevated levels of mRNA for one or both mRNA coding for the ligands for EGFR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Perturbation of epidermal barrier function correlates with initiation of cytokine cascade in human skin.	An important function of skin is to serve as a barrier and thus provide protection from the external environment. The epidermal keratinocyte establishes this barrier by producing an intact stratum corneum. In the past, keratinocytes were appreciated only for this rather inert, passive structural responsibility and not for their potential dynamic contribution to inflammatory or immune-mediated reactions.
Alleles in chromosome 10p21-26 in malignant gliomas]	Loss of genetic material on chromosome 10 is regarded as a prominent feature in the genesis of glioblastomas. To use chromosome 10 deletions as diagnostic markers for glioblastomas we investigated, if the loss of chromosome 10 material could be restricted on the region 10q21-26. By PCR microsatellite analysis on frozen tissue and paraffin material from the ZULCH brain tumor collection we found (1) loss of heterozygosity in 10q21-26 in 75% of the investigated DNA from frozen tissue and (2) an interstitial loss in the region of the microsatellite marker D10S186. The combined immunohistochemical analysis of overexpression of EGFR, EGF and TGF alpha with LOH on chromosome 10 showed that chromosome 10 deletions are not exclusively bound to EGFR overexpression.
Keratinocyte growth factor receptor ligands induce transforming growth factor alpha expression and activate the epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway in cultured epidermal keratinocytes.	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligands are fundamental regulators of epithelial growth, differentiation, and neoplastic transformation. In addition to being potent mitogens for murine epidermal keratinocytes in vitro, transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) and EGF elicit distinctive changes in keratin expression: Ca(2+)-mediated induction of the differentiation-specific keratins K1 and K10 is blocked, while simple epithelial keratins K8 and K18 are expressed aberrantly (C. Cheng et al., Cell Growth, & Differ., 4: 317-327, 1993). We have evaluated several additional growth factors to determine the specificity of this response for EGFR ligands. TGF alpha, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), and acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), but not basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) or insulin-like growth factor type I, block Ca(2+)-mediated expression of K1 while inducing K8. Since KGF and aFGF (but not bFGF) are ligands for the KGF receptor (KGFR), we explored the possibility that the TGF alpha/EGFR pathway is an intermediary in signaling through the KGFR. TGF alpha mRNA was increased in cells treated with KGF, aFGF, or TGF alpha but not bFGF or insulin-like growth factor type I. Similar changes were detected at the protein level; TGF alpha in conditioned medium (CM) from control, KGF-, TGF alpha-, and aFGF-treated cultures was 54 (+/- 8, SEM), 365 (+/- 50), 146 (+/- 20), and 120 (+/- 50) pg/ml, respectively. KGF and TGF alpha also increased expression of cell-associated TGF alpha measured in keratinocyte lysates. KGF increased TGF alpha secretion and mRNA levels in human as well as mouse keratinocytes. CM from KGF-treated cultures stimulated cell growth when added to cultures of normal keratinocytes. Preincubation with neutralizing antibodies to both TGF alpha and KGF, but not KGF antibody alone, blocked cell growth in cultures treated with KGF CM, suggesting that the predominant keratinocyte mitogen in KGF CM is TGF alpha. In support of this hypothesis, treatment of keratinocytes for 5 min with either KGF CM or purified TGF alpha resulted in EGFR autophosphorylation. Furthermore, after approximately 24 h, KGF as well as TGF alpha induced EGFR down-regulation based on Western blot analysis and 125I-EGF binding. Induction of TGF alpha in KGF-treated keratinocytes, coupled to activation and down-modulation of the EGFR, suggests that TGF alpha may be a proximal effector of KGF action for at least certain aspects of epidermal growth and differentiation.
Development of scale-down techniques for investigation of recombinant Escherichia coli fermentations: acid metabolites in shake flasks and stirred bioreactors.	We have developed shake-flask screening conditions that are predictive of specific expression of the chimeric toxin, TGF alpha-PE40, by recombinant Escherichia coli JM109 in stirred bioreactors. When a nutrient-rich stirred bioreactor medium was used in shake flasks, neither the extent of growth nor the specific level of recombinant protein expression duplicated the performance in stirred bioreactor fermentations. Incomplete oxidation of glucose and concomitant accumulation of organic acid metabolites, as well as oxygen limitation and lack of pH control, were examined as contributors to the poorer performance in the flask. The medium buffering capacity, initial glucose level, and flask aeration were evaluated to establish the limits of "scale-down" conditions for expression both in a complex nutrient medium (M101) similar to that used in stirred bioreactors and in a defined (FM) medium. Acid metabolites and ethanol were measured as indicators of carbon flow from glucose as well as indirect indicators of oxygen limitation. For the complex M101 medium, optimal shake-flask performance in 250-mL, nonbaffled flasks at 37 degrees C occurred with 0.3 x medium strength, supplementation with 0.3 m HEPES buffer (pH 7.5), and 10 mL of medium per flask. Cultures grown under these conditions produced a maximum density of 3.6 g of dry cell weight/L (as estimated by absorbance measurements at 600 nm) and maintained a pH near neutrality. Additionally, metabolite markers of anaerobic or microaerobic conditions, such as ethanol, lactate, and pyruvate, were not detected, and specific expression of TGF alpha-PE40 was comparable to stirred bioreactors induced for expression at various biomass levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Respiratory epithelial cell expression of human transforming growth factor-alpha induces lung fibrosis in transgenic mice.	Increased production of EGF or TGF-alpha by the respiratory epithelial cells has been associated with the pathogenesis of various forms of lung injury. Growth factors and cytokines are thought to act locally, via paracrine and autocrine mechanisms, to stimulate cell proliferation and matrix deposition by interstitial lung cells resulting in pulmonary fibrosis. To test whether TGF-alpha mediates pulmonary fibrotic responses, we have generated transgenic mice expressing human TGF-alpha under control of regulatory regions of the human surfactant protein C (SP-C) gene. Human TGF-alpha mRNA was expressed in pulmonary epithelial cells in the lungs of the transgenic mice. Adult mice bearing the SP-C-TGF-alpha transgene developed severe pulmonary fibrosis. Fibrotic lesions were observed in peribronchial, peribronchiolar, and perivascular regions, as well as subjacent to pleural surfaces. Lesions consisted of fibrous tissue that included groups of epithelial cells expressing endogenous SP-C mRNA, consistent with their identification as distal respiratory epithelial cells. Peripheral fibrotic regions consisted of thickened pleura associated with extensive collagen deposition. Alveolar architecture was disrupted in the transgenic mice with loss of alveoli in the lung parenchyma. Pulmonary epithelial cell expression of TGF-alpha in transgenic mice disrupts alveolar morphogenesis and produces fibrotic lesions mediated by paracrine signaling between respiratory epithelial and interstitial cells of the lung.
Cerebral hemidecortication alters expression of transforming growth factor alpha mRNA in the neostriatum of developing rats.	Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) is a mitogenic polypeptide which acts at the epidermal growth factor receptor to produce its biologic effects. Recent studies have demonstrated that TGF alpha may act as a neurotrophic factor. Cerebral hemispherectomy (hemidecortication) is performed on some children with intractable epilepsy. Prior studies have demonstrated improved functional recovery in both children and animals when the surgery is performed at a very early age. In order to test whether TGF alpha may be involved in the functional recovery of the neostriatum following cerebral hemidecortication, we performed in situ hybridization for TGF alpha mRNA on brains of rats which underwent hemispherectomy at postnatal day (P) 6 or P12 or in adulthood, and sacrificed one, 7, or 30 days following surgery. Normal striatal expression in control animals was very high at P6 and then decreased throughout development. In animals undergoing lesion at earlier ages (P6 and P12), TGF alpha mRNA expression was first depressed in the ipsilateral neostriatum one day after surgery and then elevated to supranormal levels 7 and 30 days after surgery. Maximal decreases (40% below contralateral neostriatum) were seen in animals lesioned at P12 and sacrificed the next day. Maximal elevations (60% greater than opposite neostriatum) were seen in animals operated on at P6 and sacrificed 30 days post surgery. Expression in the adult animal was only mildly affected, with a 20% increase found in the ipsilateral caudate 7 days after the lesion, but no significant changes after one or 30 days survival.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Defective interleukin six expression and responsiveness in human mammary cells transformed by an adeno 5/SV40 hybrid virus.	Mammary epithelial cells (MECs) were isolated and cultured from mammary glands of healthy women undergoing reduction mammoplasty. Normal MECs were infected with the transforming hybrid virus adeno-5/SV40. Two transformed epithelial cell lines, M1 and M2, were obtained, characterised phenotypically and studied for the production of and the response to cytokines and growth regulators. In both cell lines, expression of the SV40 large T antigen was associated with loss of interleukin 6 (IL-6) production and responsiveness as well as with down-regulation of IL-8 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha production. Both M1 and M2 cell lines were capable of forming colonies in semisolid media, but upon injection into severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice only M2 cells were tumorigenic. DNA synthesis in M1 cells was partially inhibited by serum or TNF-alpha and weakly stimulated by hydrocortisone (HC) and IL-8. In contrast, M2 cells were totally unresponsive to a variety of growth regulators. Both lines overexpressed the p53 protein at levels about 20-fold higher than those observed in primary MEC cultures, but no mutations of the p53 gene could be detected. The date confirm the view that the expression in human mammary cells of different oncogenes - including the SV40 T antigen - is frequently associated with alterations of cytokine production and responsiveness.
Glucose metabolism to glucosamine is necessary for glucose stimulation of transforming growth factor-alpha gene transcription.	Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha) gene transcription can be increased when arterial smooth muscle cells are exposed to supraphysiological concentrations of glucose, and this effect of glucose can be mimicked by glucosamine. To determine whether the metabolism of glucose to glucosamine is required for this glucose effect, the rate-limiting step in glucose metabolism to glucosamine through the enzyme glutamine:fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase (GFAT) was blocked using pharmacological and antisense strategies. We found that blockage of GFAT activity or expression significantly blunted the glucose-induced increase of TGFalpha expression. Blockage of GFAT also resulted in a decreased RL2 signal on intracellular proteins as detected by Western blotting and indirect immunofluorescence. The RL2 monoclonal antibody recognizes an epitope on proteins that contain N-acetylglucosamine and thus is a measure of protein glycosylation. Conversely, treatment of the cells with glucose and glucosamine resulted in an increase in the RL2 epitope on intracellular proteins. These results indicate that the metabolism of glucose to glucosamine is necessary for the transcriptional stimulation of TGFalpha expression in vascular smooth muscle cells by glucose. Furthermore, the level of glycosylation of some intracellular proteins can be modulated in response to physiological changes in the extracellular glucose concentration and the net activity of GFAT.
Transforming growth factor alpha and epidermal growth factor expression in experimental murine polycystic kidney disease.	Cystic change in polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is associated with epithelial hyperplasia, altered fluid and electrolyte transport, and de-differentiation of renal tubular epithelium. The role of polypeptide growth factors as potential modulators of cystic change remains an area of controversy. In this study, the expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) were assessed by immunohistochemistry and image analysis in glucocorticoid-induced PKD in the newborn mouse. Newborn C3H mice received either 200 mg/kg methylprednisolone acetate (MPA) or 0.9% saline as a control. EGF expression was not detected in significant quantities in either MPA-treated or control animals. TGF alpha, however, was expressed in immature control kidney in a largely basolateral distribution. Expression increased significantly in association with cystic change in MPA-treated animals and was localized to the apical cell surface, implying altered polarity of secretion. There is no evidence that EGF is a mitogen in this early developmental model of PKD. TGF alpha, however, may be an important mediator of cystic change in immature or de-differentiated renal tubular epithelium.
Growth factor effects on apoptosis of rat gastric enterochromaffin-like cells.	Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells are histamine-containing endocrine cells in the gastric epithelium that show increased density during chronic atrophic gastritis. The current study determined cell number and apoptosis of isolated rat ECL cells in response to several growth factors. Isolated ECL cells from fundic mucosa (enrichment >90%) were grown in serum-free medium over 2-5 days. Cell number was determined by mitochondrial formazan production; apoptosis was measured by Tdt-mediated dUTP nick end labeling reaction and DNA fragmentation-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR demonstrated the presence of epidermal growth factor receptor, neuronal growth factor receptor (type 1), and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (type 1). Gastrin (EC50, approximately 2 pM), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha; 10-30 ng/ml), and basic FGF (bFGF; 1-10 ng/ml) increased the total number of cultured ECL cells. bFGF augmented the gastrin (1 pM)-induced response. Beta-neuronal growth factor (10 ng/ml) and bFGF (2 ng/ml) decreased the programed death of ECL cells. Interleukin-1beta (100 pg/ml, 24 h) stimulated apoptosis 2- to 3-fold in ECL cells, and simultaneous incubation with TGF alpha (20 ng/ml) or bFGF (2 ng/ml) significantly inhibited this effect. ECL cells express specific receptors for gastrin, epidermal growth factor, neuronal growth factor, and FGF. bFGF prolonged ECL cell survival by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis. Our data further indicate that TGF alpha and bFGF increase ECL cell number by inhibiting cytokine-induced programed cell death.
The expression of epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-alpha mRNA in the small intestine of suckling rats: organ culture study.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) are associated with regulation of various gastrointestinal functions. In order to better understand their role in developing small intestine EGF, TGF-alpha and EGF-R steady-state mRNA levels and transcript stability were determined. Reverse transcription (RT) competitive-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed that intestinal TGF-alpha mRNA levels were 10-fold higher in comparison with EGF mRNA. The primary intestinal culture technique was used to evaluate mRNA stability. The stability of TGF-alpha mRNA was remarkably lower than the stability of EGF mRNA. High levels of TGF-alpha mRNA accompanied by high degradation rate of this mRNA suggested a rapid turnover of intestinal TGF-alpha mRNA.
