Targeted gene transduction of mammalian cells expressing the HER2/neu receptor by filamentous phage.	Screening a random peptide library displayed on phage as fusion to the major capsid protein pVIII identified a ligand binding the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) specifically. By mutating the sequence of this ligand, a "secondary" library was generated, whose panning on HER2-positive cells isolated a phage-borne peptide with increased specific binding to HER2 (phage NL1.1). The same peptide recognised HER2 specifically when expressed as an N-terminal fusion to the minor coat protein pIII. Phage NL1.1 was engineered to include a mammalian expression cassette for a reporter gene within its genome. This modified phage transduced HER2-expressing cells with very high specificity (more than 1000-fold that of parental HER2-negative cells) and with an efficiency comparable to that of chemical transfection protocols. The gene delivery process was remarkably fast, requiring less than 15 minutes incubation of phage with target cells to generate detectable levels of gene expression.
Replication-defective recombinant Semliki Forest virus encoding GM-CSF as a vector system for rapid and facile generation of autologous human tumor cell vaccines.	This paper describes the production of recombinant Semliki Forest virus encoding murine or human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and the capacity of these vectors to transduce murine and human tumor cells ex vivo. High-titer stocks (up to 3 x 10(9) particles/ml) of conditionally infective, replication-defective, recombinant SFV particles were generated using the SFV Helper-2 system. It is shown that the recombinant SFV/GM-CSF virus, as well as recombinant SFV carrying the beta-galactosidase reporter gene, efficiently transduce both murine tumor cell lines as well as primary human renal carcinoma cells. Using ELISA's specific for GM-CSF, levels of GM-CSF production by the cells were determined. Levels of murine GM-CSF (mGM-CSF) produced by SFV/mGM-CSF transduced renal cell cancer cultures were equal to or higher than corresponding levels reported in the literature after transduction of similar renal carcinoma cell cultures using a retroviral vector system. The biological activity of GM-CSF was demonstrated by using cells which are dependent on GM-CSF for growth and by using primary bone marrow cells. All the transduced cell cultures (including the human renal cell carcinoma samples) produced GM-CSF for up to at least 4 days after transduction. The results imply that the recombinant SFV system can be used for rapid and facile preparation of autologous cancer cell vaccines.
Delivery of herpes simplex virus vectors through liposome formulation.	Viral vectors have been widely used as gene delivery vehicles for both experimental and clinical investigations. Although these vectors are capable of achieving high gene transduction efficiency in vitro, one of the major limitations facing the therapeutic viral vectors is that the preexisting host anti-vector immunity can substantially reduce their transduction efficiency in vivo. This is especially of concern when the therapeutic remedy requires repeated systemic administration. Here we report the delivery of herpes simplex virus (HSV) derived vectors through liposome formulation. In these studies, we have prepared HSV vectors in three different forms for liposome formulation: purified viral DNA (obtained from a bacterial artificial chromosome containing an infectious HSV genome), HSV capsids, and intact viral particles. All three forms of HSV were readily transfected into cultured cells and infectious virus was efficiently generated. Furthermore, introduction of HSV vectors as DNA/liposome complexes improved in vivo transduction efficiency, by effectively evading the host anti-HSV immunity during systemic administration. We conclude that viral vectors such as HSV can be systemically delivered through liposome formulation for safe and repeated administration for gene transduction or oncolytic purposes.
Retroviral vectors for the transduction of autoregulated, bidirectional expression cassettes.	Regulated transgene expression is increasingly used in research but is also needed for certain therapies. Regulatory systems are usually composed of two expression units, one bearing the gene of interest under control of a regulatable promoter and the other, a constitutively expressed transactivator that modulates the activity of the regulatable promoter. Because the cotransfer of two independent elements is not efficient in primary cells, single transduction step vectors conferring regulatable gene expression cassettes would be helpful. We have developed retroviral vectors containing an autoregulatory bidirectional expression cassette that encodes all components necessary for regulated expression of a gene of interest. The influence of the orientation of the reporter gene with respect to the viral long terminal repeat (LTR) and the effect of transcriptionally inactive LTRs were investigated using mouse leukemia virus (MLV) and self-inactivating (SIN)-based retroviral vectors. Strict regulation was observed when the reporter was inserted in antisense orientation with respect to the LTR, whereas a sense arrangement of the reporter resulted in a loss of regulation capacity. Expression and regulation of the antisense-orientated reporter gene were homogenous in infected cell pools and investigated cell clones. Long-term observations of infected cells over a period of 30 passages revealed stable expression and regulation. These autoregulated, bidirectional retroviral vectors combine the advantages of single-step transduction with strict regulation of the gene of interest in the infected target cells.
Improvement of transduction efficiency of recombinant adenovirus vector conjugated with cationic liposome for human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines.	Adenovirus (Ad) vectors are commonly used in gene therapy trials because of their efficiency in gene transfer. However, their use is limited by immune responses that reduce transgene expression and decrease the efficiency of repeated vector administration. In this study, the efficacy of gene transduction and the tumor-cell killing effect on four human oral (SAS, HSC-2, HSC-3, HSC-4) and one murine squamous cell carcinoma cell (SCC-7, a kind gift of Dr. M. Hiraoka, Kyoto University) lines in vitro with Ad vector conjugated with catioic liposome (Ad/SUV) was evaluated. Ad/SUV resulted in two to five-fold over higher transduction efficiency in four human and one murine cell lines in vitro than Ad vector alone. The optimal Ad-SUV ratio was determined as 10(6) pfu of Ad vector with 1 micromol SUV. Ad/SUV showed more tumor-cell killing effect than Ad vector alone. Furthermore, the shielding effects of Ad vector with Ad/SUV from neutralizing antibody were evaluated. We also found that Ad/SUV is less susceptible to inactivation by neutralizing antibodies in vitro. The efficacy of gene transduction with Ad vector was blocked more than 70% with neutralizing serum, while Ad/SUV retained approximately 50% of the control activity in vitro. On the basis of these results, the anti-tumor effect with suicide gene therapy using Ad/SUV in vivo was evaluated. Three injections of Ad/SUV showed the inhibition of tumor growth compared with control in vivo. Our results suggested that an enhanced anti-tumor effect on human oral squamous cell carcinoma would be obtained with repeated administrations of Ad/SUV.
Bone regeneration in critical size defects by cell-mediated BMP-2 gene transfer: a comparison of adenoviral vectors and liposomes.	Large bone defects resulting from nonunion fractures or tumour resections are common clinical problems. Recent studies have shown bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) gene transfer using adenoviral vectors to be a promising new therapeutic approach. However, comparative studies of different vectors are required to identify the optimal system for possible clinical trials. This study compares the use of liposome-mediated and adenoviral gene transfer for the generation of autologous BMP-2-producing bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC). Primary BMSC isolated from the rat femur were treated ex vivo with either an adenovirus or a liposome carrying human BMP-2 cDNA. The genetically modified cells were evaluated in vitro and transplanted into critical size defects in the rat mandible in vivo. BMSC treated with a reporter gene vector or untreated BMSC served as controls. The newly formed tissue was analysed by in situ hybridization, radiography and immunohistochemistry. Both groups of genetically modified cells produced BMP-2 for at least 2 weeks, and markers of new bone matrix such as osteopontin and osteocalcin were observed within 2 weeks following gene transfer. In the liposome group, the critical size defects were found completely healed at 6 weeks after the gene transfer, whereas the more efficient adenoviral gene transfer allowed for complete bone healing within 4 weeks. None of the three control groups showed bone healing, not even after 8 weeks. Thus, both liposome-mediated and adenoviral BMP-2 gene transfer to primary BMSC are suitable methods to achieve the healing of critical size bone defects in rats. As liposomes have proven sufficient for this purpose and offer several advantages over any other vector, such as ease of preparation, theoretically no limitation of the size of the DNA, and less immunological and safety problems, they may represent the best vector system for future clinical trials of bone regeneration by BMP-2 gene therapy.
Anterograde delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor to striatum via nigral transduction of recombinant adeno-associated virus increases neuronal death but promotes neurogenic response following stroke.	To explore the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor for survival and generation of striatal neurons after stroke, recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors carrying brain-derived neurotrophic factor or green fluorescent protein genes were injected into right rat substantia nigra 4-5 weeks prior to 30 min ipsilateral of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated viral transduction markedly increased the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein by nigral cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor was transported anterogradely to the striatum and released in biologically active form, as revealed by the hypertrophic response of striatal neuropeptide Y-positive interneurons. Animals transduced with brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated virus also exhibited abnormalities in body posture and movements, including tilted body to the right, choreiform movements of left forelimb and head, and spontaneous, so-called 'barrel' rotation along their long axis. The continuous delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor had no effect on the survival of striatal projection neurons after stroke, but exaggerated the loss of cholinergic, and parvalbumin- and neuropeptide Y-positive, gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic interneurons. The high brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in the animals subjected to stroke also gave rise to an increased number of striatal cells expressing doublecortin, a marker for migrating neuroblasts, and cells double-labelled with the mitotic marker, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'monophosphate, and early neuronal (Hu) or striatal neuronal (Meis2) markers. Our findings indicate that long-term anterograde delivery of high levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases the vulnerability of striatal interneurons to stroke-induced damage. Concomitantly, brain-derived neurotrophic factor potentiates the stroke-induced neurogenic response, at least at early stages.
Migration of adventitial myofibroblasts following vascular balloon injury: insights from in vivo gene transfer to rat carotid arteries.	Migration of adventitial fibroblasts, in addition to smooth muscle cell proliferation, plays a role in neointima formation following vascular injury. Previous studies have not directly addressed whether endogenous adventitial cells migrate towards the intima following balloon injury in the absence of medial dissection. We have employed an in vivo gene transfer technique to the rat carotid artery to directly label adventitial fibroblasts prior to balloon injury.
Gene therapy progress and prospects: adenoviral vectors.	In September 1999, the perceptions of the use of adenoviral (Ad) vectors for gene therapy were altered when a patient exposed via the hepatic artery to a high dose of adenoviral vector succumbed to the toxicity related to vector administration. Appropriately, concerns were raised about continued use of the Ad vector system and, importantly, there were increased efforts to more fully understand the toxicity. Today it is recognized that there is no ideal vector system, and that while Ad vectors are not suitable for all applications, the significant advantages over other vector systems including efficient transduction of a variety of cell types, both quiescent and dividing, make it optimal for certain applications. These include protocols where high levels of short-term expression are sufficient to provide a therapeutic benefit. Potential target applications include therapeutic angiogenesis, administration into immune-privileged sites such as the CNS, or treatments where the adjuvant effect of adenovirus can be of benefit such as cancer vaccines. Broader applicability of Ad vectors will require resolution of toxicity issues. This review will therefore focus on studies conducted over the last 2 years that have advanced our understanding of the toxicity associated with Ad vectors, studies that have employed methods to reduce toxicity and improvements in Ad vectors themselves that will reduce toxicity by one of several mechanisms. These mechanisms include retargeting vector to the tissue of interest, minimizing or eliminating viral gene expression that is thought to result in loss of transduced cells, or by methods that seek to reduce the vector dose required for therapeutic benefit. An area where there remains significant room for improvement is when readministration of vector is required because transgene expression has decreased to background levels.
Receptor targeting of adeno-associated virus vectors.	Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a promising vector for human somatic gene therapy. However, its broad host range is a disadvantage for in vivo gene therapy, because it does not allow the selective tissue- or organ-restricted transduction required to enhance the safety and efficiency of the gene transfer. Therefore, increasing efforts are being made to target AAV-2-based vectors to specific receptors. The studies summarized in this review show that it is possible to target AAV-2 to a specific cell. So far, the most promising approach is the genetic modification of the viral capsid. However, the currently available AAV-2 targeting vectors need to be improved with regard to the elimination of the wild-type AAV-2 tropism and the improvement of infectious titers. The creation of highly efficient AAV-2 targeting vectors will also require a better understanding of the transmembrane and intracellular processing of this virus.
Ex vivo gene transfer of basic fibroblast growth factor improves cardiac function and blood flow in a swine chronic myocardial ischemia model.	We previously reported adenovirus-mediated ex vivo gene transfer of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) as a new treatment for leg ischemia. This time, we tested this method on a swine myocardial ischemia model, seeking the possibility of its application for ischemic heart disease. An ameroid constrictor was placed around the proximal left circumflex branch of pigs to induce myocardial ischemia. Simultaneously, a skin section was harvested and fibroblasts were cultured. Fibroblasts were then infected with adenovirus vector containing a bFGF cDNA with a secretory signal sequence (bFGF group, n=8) or a LacZ cDNA (control group, n=8). At 28 days after constrictor implantation, 2.5 x 10(6) fibroblasts were administered into each of the right and left coronary arteries. The injected fibroblasts accumulated in the myocardium without causing myocardial ischemia. Echocardiography, electromechanical mapping and coronary arteriography were conducted just before and 28 days after fibroblast injection, and regional left ventricular myocardial blood flow was measured 28 days after fibroblast injection. These evaluations revealed that the bFGF group exhibited significant development of collateral vessels and improvement of myocardial contraction in the ischemic area compared with the control group. We believe that this method is a promising treatment strategy for ischemic heart disease.
Combined transcriptional and transductional targeting improves the specificity and efficacy of adenoviral gene delivery to ovarian carcinoma.	Adenoviruses are efficient gene delivery vehicles but have broad native tropism. To this end, finding ways to target this virus specifically to carcinomas has become an important focus of cancer gene therapy. Transductional and transcriptional forms of targeting have been used with promising results in ovarian carcinoma. Therefore, we combined both forms of targeting to investigate the effect on the specificity and efficiency of transgene expression in this disease. We used the tissue-specific SLPI promoter and the ovarian cancer associated targeting adaptor protein, sCARfC6.5. This bispecific protein contains the coxsackie-adenovirus receptor ectodomain and a single-chain antibody specific for c-erbB-2. Viruses containing the SLPI or the ubiquitously expressed CMV promoter, with or without sCARfC6.5, were used for infection of ovarian cancer cell lines, primary ovarian tumor cells, and in an orthotopic model of disseminated ovarian carcinoma. This dual-targeting strategy increased the efficiency and specificity of transgene expression in vitro in reporter and cell-killing assays, and in vivo. By using both the SLPI promoter and sCARfC6.5, transgene expression was increased in ovarian tumors and decreased in normal tissues, including the liver. Thus, we show that combining transcriptional and transductional targeting can increase the efficacy and specificity of adenoviral gene therapy for ovarian carcinoma.
Protein transduction by poly-arginine]	Protein transduction methods have been developed utilizing the delivery of peptides and proteins into eukaryotic cells by the protein transduction domain (PTD). Initially, the PTD domain was developed from the sequences from HIV-1 TAT, HSV VP-22 and antennapedia homeoprotein. Recently, several novel PTDs were developed and has been used as a valuable strategy for transduction of therapeutic protein. We developed a novel, high efficiency PTD (11 arginine) based on the TAT sequence and used 11R for the regulation of intracellular signal cascades. PTD can deliver proteins and other bioactive compounds and therefore serves as a very useful strategy for the development of therapeutic agents.
SarCNU mediates selection of P140K methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase transduced human CD34(+) cells in vitro.	The therapeutic combination O(6)-benzylguanine (BG) and 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) can be used to select for P140K methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (P140K MGMT) transduced hematopoietic progenitors both in vitro and in vivo. SarCNU is a new alkylating agent which has advantages over BCNU. We tested the ability of P140K MGMT transduced human CD34(+) cells to resist SarCNU treatment and be selected for in vitro. BG/SarCNU exposure led to an increase in the proportion of transduced cells from 13 to 27%. The IC(90) was increased sixfold by P140K MGMT transduction. These results suggest that SarCNU may be a suitable agent for in vivo selection strategies.
Foamy virus--adenovirus hybrid vectors.	To confer adenovirus vectors (AdV), the feature of integration into the host cell genome hybrid vectors were characterized in vitro, which express vectors derived from the prototypic foamy virus (FV) in the backbone of a high-capacity AdV. FVs constitute a subfamily of retroviruses with a distinct replication pathway and no known pathogenicity. In the absence of envelope glycoprotein, the prototypic FV behaves like a retrotransposon, while it behaves like an exogenous retrovirus in its presence. Two principle types of vectors, which either allows the intracellular (HC-FAD-7) or, in addition, the extracellular (HC-FAD-2) pathway were constructed. In both chimeras the expression of the FV vector was controlled by the tetracycline-regulatable system. Hybrids were produced close to 10(10) infectious units/ml. By Southern blotting, the functionality of the hybrid vectors to generate host cell genomic integrants was shown. However, the efficiency of HC-FAD-7 to establish stable transgene expression was rather low, while around 70% of cells were stably transduced in secondary round following primary transduction with HC-FAD-2 at an MOI of 100. Given the benign characteristics of high-capacity adenovirus and FV vectors, hybrids based on HC-FAD-2 are probably suited for an in vivo application.
Rapamycin control of exocrine protein levels in saliva after adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer.	Transgene-encoded therapeutic secretory proteins can be efficiently secreted from salivary glands into saliva or the bloodstream after adenoviral (Ad)-mediated gene transfer. Since transgene expression from conventional vectors is typically unregulated, we evaluated the rapamycin-based dimerizer regulation system for control of transgene expression in, and consequent exocrine protein secreted from, rat salivary glands. We used human growth hormone (hGH) as a surrogate exocrine secretory protein. Two Ad vectors, Ad C4ZF3, encoding activation and DNA binding domain fusion polypeptides, and Ad Z12-I-GH-2, encoding hGH, were constructed and shown useful in vitro. Thereafter, both vectors were delivered into submandibular glands by retroductal infusion. After 24 h, rapamycin (0, 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg) was administered, and 20 h later hGH levels in saliva were determined. Salivary hGH levels were rapamycin concentration dependent. At a rapamycin dose of 10 mg/kg, total salivary hGH was 693+/-197 ng and the hGH concentration in saliva was 4.6+/-1.3 microg/ml. Over a 16-day experimental period, three separate administrations of rapamycin (3 mg/kg) induced distinct elevations of salivary hGH (approximately 100-200 ng total hGH) that were entirely rapamycin dependent. This study demonstrates for the first time pharmacological control of transgenic exocrine protein production and presence in saliva after salivary gland gene transfer, and the potential for its application to the management of oral, oropharyngeal and upper gastrointestinal tract disorders.
Gene therapy for esophageal carcinoma: the use of an explant model to test adenoviral vectors ex vivo.	Adenoviral gene therapy might be a promising therapeutic strategy for esophageal carcinoma. However, adenoviral transduction efficacy in vivo is still limited. This efficacy can be improved by the insertion of an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide in the HI-loop of the viral fiber knob. Indeed in established esophageal cell lines, we observed an up to six-fold improved transduction using the RGD-targeted adenovirus. Established cell lines, however, are easily transformed and do not represent the more complex in vivo histology and anatomy. Therefore, we set up an esophageal explant model using esophageal biopsies from patients. Viability is a limiting factor for this system. Cultured squamous epithelium, intestinal metaplasia and squamous cell carcinoma had a sufficient viability to study adenoviral transduction. Viability of the cultured adenocarcinoma biopsies was poor. Adenoviral transduction in the explant model was poor and was localized in particular cells. The transduction of the nontargeted and RGD-targeted adenovirus was similar in localization and efficacy. In conclusion, we established an esophageal explant system to test the transduction of adenoviral vectors ex vivo. The transduction was limited and localized in specific cells. RGD-targeted adenovirus did not show an improved transduction in this system.
A novel maxizyme vector targeting a bcr-abl fusion gene induced specific cell death in Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph(+)) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) generally have a poor prognosis and would benefit from the development of new therapeutic approaches. We previously demonstrated that an allosterically controllable ribozyme, maxizyme (Mz), can induce apoptosis in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cells. Ph(+) ALL cells harbor a bcrabl fusion gene (e1a2) encoding a 190-kDa fusion protein (p190) involved in disease pathogenesis. In this study, we have designed a Mz that specifically cleaves e1a2 mRNA and transduced this e1a2Mz into Ph(+) ALL cells using a third-generation lentiviral vector system. In 3 of 5 Ph(+) ALL cell lines, e1a2Mz transduction resulted in a significant decrease in viability and increased cell apoptosis. We observed a decrease in e1a2 mRNA in all Ph(+) ALL cells transduced with e1a2Mz, and the e1a2 mRNA level was higher in e1a2Mz-resistant cells than in e1a2Mz-sensitive cells. All samples of primary Ph(+) ALL cells tested showed e1a2Mz-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis. Importantly, e1a2Mz did not influence the colony formation of normal CD34(+) cord blood cells. These results indicate that e1a2Mz kills Ph(+) ALL cells specifically, suggesting that it may be used as a novel gene therapy strategy for Ph(+) ALL.
Lentivirus-based gene delivery in mouse embryonic stem cells.	Embryonic stem (ES) cells are widely used in therapeutic research as an unlimited source of cell therapy. Therefore, it is of great value to find a way to efficiently manipulate ES cells. HIV-1-derived lentiviral vectors are now considered to be an efficient vehicle for delivering genes into a variety of cells. In this study, we examined the efficacy of lentivirus-based gene delivery into mouse ES (mES) cells.
Stable transduction of large DNA by high-capacity adeno-associated virus/adenovirus hybrid vectors.	Viral vectors with high cloning capacity and host chromosomal integration ability are in demand for the efficient and permanent genetic modification of target cells with large DNA molecules. We have generated a hybrid gene transfer vehicle consisting of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) replicative intermediates packaged in adenovirus (Ad) capsids. This arrangement allows cell cycle-independent nuclear delivery of recombinant AAV genomes with lengths considerably above the maximum size (i.e., 4.7 kb) that can be accommodated within AAV capsids. Here we show that high-capacity AAV/Ad hybrid vector gene transfer mediates cellular genomic integration of large fragments of foreign DNA and accomplishes stable long-term transgene expression in rapidly proliferating cells. Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction analyses of chromosomal DNA extracted from clones of stably transduced cells revealed that most of them contained a single copy of the full-length hybrid vector genome with AAV inverted terminal repeat (ITR) sequences at both ends. The high-capacity AAV/Ad hybrid vector system can thus be used for the transfer and expression of transgenes that cannot be delivered by conventional integrating viral vectors.
Novel integrase-defective lentiviral episomal vectors for gene transfer.	High levels of circular viral extrachromosomal DNA (E-DNA) are normally produced after infection with integration-competent and -incompetent lentiviruses. Although E-DNA has been shown to be transcriptionally active, it lasts for only a short time in replicating cells. Here, we report an integrase (IN)-defective lentiviral episomal vector in which insertion of the simian virus 40 (SV40) promoter, containing the origin of replication (ori), is associated with long-term expression and persistence of E-DNA in the presence of SV40 large T antigen (TAg) from 293T cells. 293 and 293T cell lines transduced with IN-competent lentiviral vectors expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) or luciferase from the cytomegalovirus (CMV) or SV40 promoter gave similar levels of transduction and expression. In contrast, only transient reporter expression occurred when using the CMV IN-defective control vector in both 293 and 293T cells. However, reporter gene expression was maintained for more than 8 weeks in 293T, but not 293, cells transduced with the IN-defective lentiviral vector containing the SV40-ori promoter. Polymerase chain reaction for two-long terminal repeat (2LTR) extrachromosomal circular forms, a marker of lentiviral E-DNA, and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis confirmed the persistence and episomal nature of circular E-DNA up to 60 days after transduction. Taken together, these results indicate that insertion of the SV40-ori promoter in a lentiviral vector contributes to long-term expression by promoting episomal replication when TAg is provided in trans. Lentiviral episomal vectors may serve as specific tools for therapeutic approaches to diseases, particularly those associated with episomal replication of DNA viruses including papillomaviruses, polyomaviruses, and herpesviruses.
ABC transporter inhibitors that are substrates enhance lentiviral vector transduction into primitive hematopoietic progenitor cells.	High gene transfer efficiencies have been difficult to achieve in hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) but are important to therapeutic success of HPC gene therapy. Efficient gene transfer is especially challenging with use of column-purified vector for clinical application, as opposed to centrifuged vector commonly used for research. We investigated novel approaches to increase transduction by using a clinically applicable protocol and quantities of column-purified lentiviral vector. Recognizing the association of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) transporters with HPC biology, we investigated the effect of transporter inhibitors on transduction. We found the ABC transporter inhibitor verapamil improved transduction efficiency 2- to 6-fold into CD34(+) cells isolated from mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood. Verapamil also improved transduction in human SCID (severe combined immunodeficient) repopulating cell (SRC) transduction 3- to 4-fold, resulting in 80% to 90% transduction levels in mice receiving primary and secondary transplants without alterations in multilineage reconstitution. Additional ABC transporter substrate inhibitors like quinidine, diltiazem, and ritonavir also enhanced transduction 2- to 3-fold, although ABC transporter inhibitors that are not substrates did not. Enhanced transduction was not observed in mature hematopoietic cells, neurospheres, mesenchymal stem cells, or hepatocytes. Enhancement of transduction in HPCs was observed with vesicular stomatitis virus-G (VSV-G)-pseudotyped lentiviral vector but not with vector pseudotyped with RD114. Thus, we present a new approach for efficient delivery to primitive HPCs by VSV-G-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors.
Efficient gene transfer into primitive hematopoietic progenitors using a bone marrow microenvironment cell line engineered to produce retroviral vectors.	Effective gene transfer into human hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells is a compromise between achieving high transduction efficiency and maintaining the desired biological characteristics of the target cell. The aim of our work was to exploit the stromal microenvironment to increase gene transfer and maintenance of hematopoietic progenitors.
Telomerase immortalization of human neural progenitor cells.	It is necessary to expand human neural progenitor cells in vitro to obtain large numbers for research purposes and cell transplantation. A potential obstacle to in vitro expansion, however, is that neural progenitor cells have a limited replication life-span and gradually lose their differentiation potential. We report here that ectopic expression of the catalytic subunit of human telomerase (hTERT) gene in neural progenitor cells could induce telomerase activity, stabilize telomeres and extend their replicative life-spans. The telomerase-immortalized cells (hNPC-TERT) maintained the normal diploid karyotype, expressed the markers of human neural progenitor cells and meanwhile held the differentiation potential in vitro for up to 120 population doublings. This study provides a new approach for obtaining unlimited quantities of normal phenotypic and homogeneous human neural progenitor cells in vitro.
Efficient transduction and selection of human T-lymphocytes with bicistronic Thy1/HSV1-TK retroviral vector produced by a human packaging cell line.	T-cells expressing the HSV1-TK suicide gene can be used for the control of graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic stem cell transplantation. To develop clinical trials based on such a strategy, we have generated under good manufacturing procedures a novel 'split genome' human packaging cell line (1704 cells).
RNA-containing adenovirus/polyethylenimine transfer complexes effectively transduce dendritic cells and induce antigen-specific T cell responses.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells in initiating primary immune responses. Given the unique properties of DCs, gene-modified DCs represent a particularly attractive approach for immunotherapy of diseases such as cancer.
Improvement of retroviral vectors by coating with poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(L-lysine) block copolymer (PEG-PLL).	Although some cationic reagents, such as polybrene, improve gene transduction in vitro, their use in vivo is prohibited due to their toxicity to the exposed cells. This paper demonstrates that a new cationic reagent, poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(L-lysine) block copolymer (PEG-PLL), improves gene transduction with retroviral vectors without increasing cell toxicity.
Mammalian cell transduction and internalization properties of lambda phages displaying the full-length adenoviral penton base or its central domain.	In recent years a strong effort has been devoted to the search for new, safe and efficient gene therapy vectors. Phage lambda is a promising backbone for the development of new vectors: its genome can host large inserts, DNA is protected from degradation by the capsid and the ligand-exposed D and V proteins can be extensively modified. Current phage-based vectors are inefficient and/or receptor-independent transducers. To produce new, receptor-selective and transduction-efficient vectors for mammalian cells we engineered lambda by inserting into its genome a GFP expression cassette, and by displaying the penton base (Pb) of adenovirus or its central region (amino acids 286-393). The Pb mediates attachment, entry and endosomal escape of adenovirus in mammalian cells, and its central region (amino acids 286-393) includes the principal receptor-binding motif ((340)RGD(342)). Both the phage chimerae lambda Pb and lambda Pb (286-393) were able to transduce cell lines and primary cultures of human fibroblasts. Competition experiments showed that the transduction pathway was receptor-dependent. We also describe the different trafficking properties of lambda Pb and lambda Pb (286-393). Bafilomycin, which blocks endosome maturation, influenced the intracellular distribution of lambda Pb (286-393), but not that of lambda Pb. The proteasome inhibitor MG-132 improved the efficiency of lambda Pb (286-393)-mediated transduction, but not that of lambda Pb. In summary, this work shows the feasibility of using lambda phage as an efficient vector for gene transfer into mammalian cells. We show that lambda Pb and lambda Pb (286-393) can both mediate receptor-dependent transduction; while only lambda Pb is able to promote endosomal escape and proteasome resistance of phage particles.
Improved transduction of primary murine hepatocytes by recombinant adeno-associated virus 2 vectors in vivo.	Adeno-associated virus 2 (AAV) vectors are currently in use in Phase I/II clinical trials for gene therapy of cystic fibrosis and hemophilia B. Although 100% of murine hepatocytes can be targeted by AAV vectors, the transgene expression is limited to approximately 5% of hepatocytes. Since the viral genome is a single-stranded DNA, and single strands of both polarities are encapsidated with equal frequency, it has been suggested that failure to undergo DNA strand-annealing accounts for the lack of efficient transgene expression. We and others, on the other hand, have proposed that failure to undergo viral second-strand DNA synthesis attributes to the observed low efficiency of transgene expression. We have previously documented that a cellular protein, designated FKBP52, when present in phosphorylated forms, inhibits the viral second-strand DNA synthesis, and consequently, limits transgene expression in nonhepatic cells, whereas unphosphorylated forms of FKBP52 have no effect. To further evaluate whether phosphorylated FKBP52 is also involved in regulating AAV-mediated transgene expression in murine hepatocytes, we generated transgenic mice overexpressing the cellular T-cell protein tyrosine phosphatase (TC-PTP) protein, known to catalyze dephosphorylation of FKBP52, as well as mice deficient in FKBP52. We demonstrate here that dephosphorylation of FKBP52 in TC-PTP transgenic (TC-PTP-TG) mice, and removal of FKBP52 in FKBP52-knockout (FKBP52-KO) mice results in efficient transduction of murine hepatocytes following tail-vein injection of recombinant AAV vectors. We also document efficient viral second-strand DNA synthesis in hepatocytes from both TC-PTP-TG and FKBP52-KO mice. Thus, our data strongly support the contention that the viral second-strand DNA synthesis, rather than DNA strand-annealing, is the rate-limiting step in the efficient transduction of hepatocytes, which should have implications in the optimal use of recombinant AAV vectors in human gene therapy.
Inducible translocation trap: a system for detecting inducible nuclear translocation.	Here we report a general system, inducible translocation trap (ITT), for identification of proteins that translocate into the nucleus following signal transduction from cell surface receptors. ITT consists of a retroviral cDNA expression library of fusion proteins consisting of a LexA DNA binding domain, the transactivation domain of a transcriptional activator, and proteins encoded by cDNA inserts. The retroviral library is then transduced into cell lines containing a reporter gene with LexA binding sites in its promoter. Cells expressing the reporter gene by extracellular stimuli are then selected by flow-cytometric sorting. By using ITT, we identified cDNA encoding Stat1 in a screen of proteins which translocate into the nucleus by IFNgamma, indicating that this system can be used for isolation of nuclear translocating proteins induced by extracellular stimuli. ITT may be a useful tool for dissecting dynamic translocation in various biological systems.
High-throughput gateway bicistronic retroviral vectors for stable expression in mammalian cells: exploring the biologic effects of STAT5 overexpression.	Stable expression of cloned genes in mammalian cells has been achieved in the past by retroviral transduction using bicistronic retroviral vectors. In these vectors, the use of an Internal Ribosome Entry Site (IRES) allows simultaneous expression of a protein of interest and a fluorescence marker. However, traditional cDNA cloning in these vectors is often difficult. Here we report the construction of a high-throughput retroviral vector using the Invitrogen "Gateway" Cloning system. The Gateway recombination sequences (attR) flanking the ccdB and chloramphenicol resistance genes were incorporated at the 5' of the IRES of pMX-IRES-GFP, -CD2, or -CD4 vectors. Through recombination, these vectors can acquire cDNAs coding for genes of interest, which will result in simultaneous expression of the recombined gene and the marker protein. We constructed Gateway bicistronic vectors coding for the erythropoietin receptor (EpoR) and GFP, CD4, or CD2. Epo-dependent proliferation assays and analysis of Jak2-dependent EpoR cell-surface expression showed that these vectors were able to function indistinguishable from the original pMX-EpoR-IRES-GFP. The expression levels of the genes cloned upstream the IRES were proportional to the levels of expression of GFP, which was cloned downstream of the IRES. We used the same approach and generated Ba/F3 cells that overexpress STAT5a, STAT5b, or a constitutively active form of STAT5. Overexpression of STAT5 lead to a significant effect on the intrinsic adherence to plastic of these cells, but did not change their proliferative responses to cytokines. We discuss possible applications of the new vectors for cell signaling and expression cloning.
In vivo transduction of hematopoietic stem cells after neonatal intravenous injection of an amphotropic retroviral vector in mice.	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) are important targets for gene therapy. Most protocols involve ex vivo modification, in which HSC are transduced in vitro and injected into the recipient. An in vivo delivery method might simplify HSC gene therapy. We previously demonstrated that iv injection of an amphotropic retroviral vector (RV) into newborn mice resulted in long-term expression from hepatocytes. The goal of this study was to determine if HSC were also transduced. After neonatal administration of 1 x 10(10) transducing units/kg of RV, peripheral blood cells had approximately 0.1 copy of RV per cell for up to 22 months. At 18 months, RV sequences were detected in T, B, and myeloid cells from bone marrow (BM). Unfractionated BM was transplanted into naive recipients after total body irradiation. Recipients maintained similar levels of the RV in their blood cells for 10 months, at which time RV sequences were present at the same integration site in all lineages of cells from BM. We conclude that neonatal iv injection of RV results in transduction of HSC in mice, which might be used for BM-directed gene therapy. Transduction of blood cells after liver-directed neonatal gene therapy might have adverse effects in patients, although no leukemias developed here.
Viral infection protocols.	This chapter describes the protocol for preparation of recombinant adenoviruses and infection of target cells to express transiently G-protein-coupled receptors or other proteins of interest. Adenoviruses are nonenveloped viruses containing a linear double-stranded DNA genome. Their life cycle does not normally involve integration into the host genome, rather they replicate as episomal elements in the nucleus of the host cell and consequently there is no risk of insertional mutagenesis. The wild-type adenovirus genome is approx 35 kb, of which up to 30 kb can be replaced by foreign DNA. Adenoviral vectors are very efficient at transducing the gene of interest in target cells in vitro and in vivo and can be produced at high titers (>10(11)/mL). The viral infection has a number of useful features: (1) the efficiency of gene transduction is very high (up to 100% in sensitive cells). (2) The infection is easy and does not alter physically the cell membrane for gene transduction. (3) It is possible to infect cells that are resistant to transfection with plasmids (including nondividing cells).
Highly efficient baculovirus-mediated gene transfer into rat chondrocytes.	To explore the potential of baculovirus serving as a gene delivery vector in tissue engineering of articular cartilage, the efficiencies of baculovirus-mediated gene delivery into primary rat chondrocytes were evaluated and the transduction protocol commonly employed by others (using concentrated virus at multiplicity of infection [MOI] 200 for 1 h) was found to be ineffective (<1%). Therefore, a modified protocol was adopted, which markedly enhanced the efficiency (68%). Optimization of the transduction parameters, such as incubation time (8 h), temperature (25 degrees C), and surrounding solutions (PBS), further increased the efficiency to 88% and prolonged the duration of expression to 21 days, suggesting that the cells previously considered nonpermissive to baculovirus transduction may be reexamined for their permissiveness using alternative transduction protocols. The elevated efficiency correlated well with increased virus uptake upon extended incubation time, as demonstrated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). The Q-PCR also revealed the degradation of viral DNA over culture time. Although the virus transduction somewhat hindered the cell proliferation, growth rate could be restored in the long-term culture. More importantly, transduced cells could secrete articular cartilage-specific type II collagen and glycosaminoglycan as well as mock-transduced cells, confirming that normal differentiation state of rat chondrocytes is retained upon baculovirus transduction. Taken together, these data indicate that baculovirus is a safe and highly efficient gene delivery vehicle into rat chondrocytes.
Efficient and stable Sendai virus-mediated gene transfer into primate embryonic stem cells with pluripotency preserved.	Efficient gene transfer and regulated transgene expression in primate embryonic stem (ES) cells are highly desirable for future applications of the cells. In the present study, we have examined using the nonintegrating Sendai virus (SeV) vector to introduce the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene into non-human primate cynomolgus ES cells. The GFP gene was vigorously and stably expressed in the cynomolgus ES cells for a year. The cells were able to form fluorescent teratomas when transplanted into immunodeficient mice. They were also able to differentiate into fluorescent embryoid bodies, neurons, and mature blood cells. In addition, the GFP expression levels were reduced dose-dependently by the addition of an anti-RNA virus drug, ribavirin, to the culture. Thus, SeV vector will be a useful tool for efficient gene transfer into primate ES cells and the method of using antiviral drugs should allow further investigation for regulated SeV-mediated gene expression.
The Ad5 fiber mediates nonviral gene transfer in the absence of the whole virus, utilizing a novel cell entry pathway.	The interesting discovery reported here that soluble adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) fiber proteins enter cells without the virus was a serendipitous result during our development of Ad5 capsid proteins as nonviral gene transfer vectors. The Ad5 capsid fiber and penton proteins mediate infection. The fiber docks to a noninternalizing cell surface protein called the coxsackievirus-Ad receptor (CAR), followed by penton binding to integrins, triggering integrin-mediated endocytosis of the virus. In our previous work, we assembled the nonviral complex, 3PO, which utilized the penton to mediate gene transfer through integrin binding and endocytosis. Here, we tested whether incorporating the fiber targets 3PO to CAR, thus recapitulating the Ad5 infection pathway. As CAR is not an endocytic receptor, we were surprised to find that the fiber alone, without the penton, enabled gene transfer by binding CAR, but internalizing through an unknown mechanism. We show here that the fiber distributes to the nucleus and cytoplasm after temperature-independent uptake, whereas the penton accumulates around the nucleus after temperature-dependent uptake. Fiber uptake by HeLa cells is also actin-dependent, requires the fiber tail/shaft region, and is largely inhibited by heparin. This study raises the possibility that alternative pathways may enable both viral and nonviral cell entry.
Direct evidence for the absence of intercellular trafficking of VP22 fused to GFP or to the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase.	The treatment of solid tumors by retroviral delivery of the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (TK) followed by ganciclovir (GCV) treatment has so far shown only limited success in patients. One major drawback in this approach is the lack of efficient in vivo gene delivery to cancer cells. Although, the transduction of every single tumor cell is not a requirement since the bystander effect (BE) mediated by gap junctions allows the diffusion of the toxic GCV metabolites from TK-expressing cells toward untransduced cells. To render the TK/GCV approach more potent, and independent of the level of gap junctions, we have tested the efficiency of a TK mutant (TK30) fused to VP22, a herpes simplex protein that seems to be capable of intercellular trafficking. We failed to detect an increase in the BE with cells expressing VP22 fused to TK30 versus cells containing TK30 alone, and this result forced us to reinvestigate the trafficking properties of VP22. Using very sensitive Western blot and fluorescence assays, we were not able to detect the spread of VP22 fused either to TK30 or GFP. These results indicate that VP22 cannot be used as a cargo to translocate TK30 or GFP.
Augmentation of the migratory ability of DC-based vaccine into regional lymph nodes by efficient CCR7 gene transduction.	Although dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is considered a promising approach for cancer treatment, a large quantity of DC vaccine is required for effective sensitization/activation of immune cells because of the poor migratory ability of administered DCs into regional lymphoid tissue. In this study, we created a DC vaccine sufficiently transduced with CC chemokine receptor-7 gene (CCR7/DCs) by applying RGD fiber-mutant adenovirus vector (AdRGD), and investigated its immunological characteristics and therapeutic efficacy. CCR7/DCs acquired strong chemotactic activity for CC chemokine ligand-21 (CCL21) and exhibited an immunophenotype similar to mature DCs but not immature DCs with regard to major histocompatibility complex/costimulatory molecule-expression levels and allogenic T cell proliferation-stimulating ability, while maintaining inherent endocytotic activity. Importantly, CCR7/DCs injected intradermally into mice could accumulate in draining lymph nodes about 5.5-fold more efficiently than control AdRGD-applied DCs. Reflecting these properties of CCR7/DCs, DC vaccine genetically engineered to simultaneously express endogenous antigen and CCR7 could elicit more effective antigen-specific immune response in vivo using a lower dosage than DC vaccine transduced with antigen alone. Therefore, the application of CCR7/DCs having positive migratory ability to lymphoid tissues may contribute to reduction of efforts and costs associated with DC vaccine preparation by considerably reducing the DC vaccine dosage needed to achieve effective treatment by DC-based immunotherapy.
Retroviral vector backbone immunogenicity: identification of cytotoxic T-cell epitopes in retroviral vector-packaging sequences.	Retroviral vectors are the frequently applied gene delivery vehicles for clinical gene therapy, but specificity of the immunogenicity to the protein encoded by the inserted gene of interest is a problem which needs to be overcome. Here, we describe human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) clones recognizing epitopes derived from the protein encoded by the retroviral vector backbone, which were established during the course of our attempts to generate CTLs against cytomegalovirus (CMV) or human papilloma virus (HPV) in vitro. In the case of healthy CMV-seronegative donors, CTL lines specific for retrovirally transduced cells were generated in four out of eight donors by stimulating CD8 T cells with CD40-activated B (CD40-B) cells retrovirally transduced with CMV-pp65. Two CTL clones derived from one of the CTL lines were found to recognize epitopes from gag in the context of HLA-B(*)4403 and -B(*)4601, respectively. Similarly, an HLA-B(*)3501-restricted CTL clone from a cervical cancer patient recognized an epitope located in the junctional regions of the gag and pol sequences. These results show that polypeptides encoded by components of the retroviral vector backbone are in fact immunogenic, generating CTLs in vitro in human cells. Thus, potential CTL responses to retroviral products should also be considered in clinical settings.
Adenoviral clostridial light chain gene-based synaptic inhibition through neuronal synaptobrevin elimination.	Clostridial neurotoxins have assumed increasing importance in clinical application. The toxin's light chain component (LC) inhibits synaptic transmission by digesting vesicle-docking proteins without directly altering neuronal health. To study the properties of LC gene expression in the nervous system, an adenoviral vector containing the LC of tetanus toxin (AdLC) was constructed. LC expressed in differentiated neuronal PC12 cells was shown to induce time- and concentration-dependent digestion of mouse brain synaptobrevin in vitro as compared to control transgene products. LC gene expression in the rat lumbar spinal cord disrupted hindlimb sensorimotor function in comparison to control vectors as measured by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) scale (P<0.001) and rotarod assay (P<0.003). Evoked electromyography (EMG) showed increased stimulus threshold and decreased response current amplitude in LC gene-transferred rats. At the peak of functional impairment, neither neuronal TUNEL staining nor reduced motor neuron density could be detected. Spontaneous functional recovery was observed to parallel the cessation of LC gene expression. These results suggest that light chain gene delivery within the nervous system may provide a nondestructive means for focused neural inhibition to treat a variety of disorders related to excessive synaptic activity, and prove useful for the study of neural circuitry.
Redirecting human CD4+ T lymphocytes to the MHC class I-restricted melanoma antigen MAGE-A1 by TCR alphabeta gene transfer requires CD8alpha.	Adoptive immunotherapy involving the transfer of autologous tumor or virus-reactive T lymphocytes has demonstrated its effectiveness in the eradication of cancer and virally infected cells. Clinical trails and in vitro studies have focused on CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell receptor (TCR) alphabeta lymphocytes since these cells directly kill virally infected- and tumor cells after antigen-specific recognition via their TCR alphabeta. However, increasing evidence suggests that induction of sustained immunity against cancer and viral infections depends on the presence of tumor- or virus-specific CD4+ T lymphocytes, which are restricted by MHC class II. Here, we show that these MHC class II-restricted CD4+ T lymphocytes can efficiently be redirected to MHC class I-restricted tumor cells by retroviral introduction of an HLA-A1/MAGE-A1-specific chimeric two-chain TCR ValphaCalphazeta/VbetaCbetazeta (tcTCR/zeta). However, TCR-transduced CD4+ T lymphocytes were only able to specifically bind to HLA-A1/MAGE-A1 complexes and respond to HLA-A1+/MAGE-A1+ melanoma cells when the CD8alpha gene was cointroduced. These CD4+/CD8alpha+/TCR(POS) T lymphocytes produce IFN-gamma, TNFalpha and IL-2 when specifically stimulated via the introduced TCR with immobilized HLA-A1/MAGE-A1 complexes or HLA-A1+/MAGE-A1+ melanoma cells. Furthermore, introduction of the CD8alpha gene into TCR(POS) T lymphocytes rendered these T lymphocytes cytotoxic for HLA-A1+/MAGE-A1+ melanoma cells. These results demonstrate that human CD4+ T lymphocytes when genetically grafted with an HLA-A1/MAGE-A1-specific TCR and CD8alpha are induced to kill and produce cytokines upon specific interaction with the relevant melanoma cells. Hence, CD4+ T lymphocytes, in addition to CD8+ T lymphocytes, may be critical effector cells for adoptive immuno-gene therapy to generate a sustained tumor-specific immune response in cancer patients.
Multidrug resistance-1 (MDR-1): a new target for T cell-based immunotherapy.	Acquired multidrug resistance (MDR) remains a major challenge in the treatment of cancer with chemotherapeutic drugs. It can be mediated by the up-regulated expression of different proteins within the tumor cell membrane. Here, we used murine multidrug resistance-1 (MDR-1) as a target-antigen for the immunotherapy of cancer. We successfully demonstrated that peripheral T cell tolerance can be broken by oral administration of a DNA vaccine encoding MDR-1 and carried by attenuated Salmonella typhimurium to secondary lymphoid organs. Thus, mice, immunized orally three times at 2-wk intervals and challenged 2 wk thereafter with either MDR-1 expressing CT-26 colon carcinoma cells or MDR-1 expressing Lewis lung carcinoma cells, revealed a significant increase in life span. This was evident, when compared with animals either vaccinated with the empty control vector or challenged with the parental cell lines lacking overexpression of MDR-1. The immune response induced was antigen-specific and CD8+ T cell-mediated. The presence of the target antigen led to up-regulation of activation markers on CD8+ T cells and resulted in a strong cytotoxic T cell response as well as lysis of tumor target cells in vitro. We furthermore established the vaccine to be an effective treatment for established multi-drug-resistant tumor metastases, resulting in a significantly increased life span of experimental animals. Absence of CD8+ T cells due to in vivo depletion led to abrogation of effectiveness. Taken together, our results demonstrate that T cell tolerance against the MDR-1 self-antigen can be broken. It is anticipated that the combination of such an approach with chemotherapy could lead to more effective treatments of cancer.
Functional applications of novel Semliki Forest virus vectors are limited by vector toxicity in cultures of primary neurons in vitro and in the substantia nigra in vivo.	The Semliki Forest virus (SFV) system has been shown to be highly efficient in transduction of cell lines and primary cells. We employed a novel "noncytotoxic" SFV(PD) vector for transduction of primary ventral midbrain floor cultures in vitro and rat substantia nigra in vivo. Rapid protein expression was noted with preferential transduction of neuronal cells including the dopaminergic subpopulation. To examine the suitability of the SFV vector system for functional gene expression, SFV(PD) vectors encoding for antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-X(L) and XIAP were designed. Despite effective transgene expression, SFV(PD) vectors were unable to rescue dopaminergic neurons from MPP+-induced apoptosis. In vivo, virus injection into substantia nigra resulted in fast onset of transgene expression, but elicited an activation of microglia and an inflammation response. We conclude that the use of novel SFV(PD) vectors is currently limited by persistent neurotoxicity of the vector system. Although SFV(PD) vectors may be useful for protein localization studies in dopaminergic neurons, functional applications will require the development of even less cytopathic vector systems.
VEGF165 and angiopoietin-1 decreased myocardium infarct size through phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and Bcl-2 pathways.	Angiogenic growth factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) could decrease myocardial infarct size, which was assumed to be related with newly formed capillaries. We doubted that these capillaries could do this solely and the potential protective mechanisms of VEGF and Ang1 on myocardium need to be evaluated. Three types of adenoviruses encoding human VEGF(165) (Ad-VEGF(165)), human angiopoietin-1 (Ad-Ang1) and green fluorescent protein (Ad-GFP, as a parallel control) were constructed. Experiments were taken both in vitro and in vivo. As in vitro, the antiapoptosis effect of VEGF(165), Ang1 and VEGF(165)+Ang1 on cardiac myoblasts was observed, which seemed to be related with the activation of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and Bcl-2 pathways. As in vivo, adenoviruses were intramyocardially injected immediately after the ligation of the left anterior descending coronay arteries in rats. The results showed positive effect of VEGF(165), Ang1 and VEGF(165)+Ang1 on decreasing the myocardial infarct size at the 7th day. Myocardial PI-3K activity and Bcl-2 expression were elevated relatively at the 3rd day. The protective effect of VEGF(165) and Ang1 on the myocardium may broaden their functional research and contribute to their clinical use in the future.
Tumor cell targeted gene delivery by adenovirus 5 vectors carrying knobless fibers with antibody-binding domains.	Most human carcinoma cell lines lack the high-affinity receptors for adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) at their surface and are nonpermissive to Ad5. We therefore tested the efficiency of retargeting Ad5 to alternative cellular receptors via immunoglobulin (Ig)-binding domains inserted at the extremity of short-shafted, knobless fibers. The two recombinant Ad5's constructed, Ad5/R7-Z(wt)-Z(wt) and Ad5/R7-C2-C2, carried tandem Ig-binding domains from Staphylococcal protein A (abbreviated Z(wt)) and from Streptococcal protein G (C2), respectively. Both viruses bound their specific Ig isotypes with the expected affinity. They transduced human carcinoma cells independently of the CAR pathway, via cell surface receptors targeted by specific monoclonal antibodies, that is, EGF-R on A549, HT29 and SW1116, HER-2/neu on SK-OV-3 and SK-BR-3, CA242 (epitope recognized by the monoclonal antibody C242) antigen on HT29 and SW1116, and PSMA (prostate-specific membrane antigen) expressed on HEK-293 cells, respectively. However, Colo201 and Colo205 cells were neither transduced by targeting CA242 or EGF-R nor were LNCaP cells transduced by targeting PSMA. Our results suggested that one given surface receptor could mediate transduction of certain cells but not others, indicating that factors and steps other than cell surface expression and virus-receptor interaction are additional determinants of Ad5-mediated transduction of tumor cells. Using penton base RGD mutants, we found that one of these limiting steps was virus endocytosis.
Low-density lipoprotein from apolipoprotein E-deficient mice induces macrophage lipid accumulation in a CD36 and scavenger receptor class A-dependent manner.	To investigate the potential of circulating low-density lipoprotein (LDL), isolated from apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient mice (E-/-LDL) and from LDL receptor-deficient mice (Lr-/-LDL), to induce foam cell formation.
In vivo anti-tumour activity of recombinant MVM parvoviral vectors carrying the human interleukin-2 cDNA.	The natural oncotropism and oncotoxicity of vectors derived from the autonomous parvovirus, minute virus of mice (prototype strain) [MVM(p)], combined with the immunotherapeutic properties of cytokine transgenes, make them interesting candidates for cancer gene therapy.
Mesothelin-mediated targeting of adenoviral vectors for ovarian cancer gene therapy.	Adenoviruses (Ads) are efficient gene transfer vehicles, but Ad-mediated gene therapy for ovarian cancer remains limited in vivo by inefficient and nonspecific gene transfer. Mesothelin (MSLN), a cell surface glycoprotein, is overexpressed in ovarian cancer but not in normal tissues except mesothelial cells. Therefore, MSLN is an attractive candidate for transcriptional and transductional targeting in the context of ovarian cancer gene therapy. We evaluated the expression of MSLN mRNA and MSLN surface protein in ovarian cancer cells. Ads containing the MSLN promoter driving reporter gene expression were created and tested in ovarian cancer cell lines and purified ovarian cancer cells isolated from patients. To evaluate transductional targeting, we used an Ad vector containing an Fc-binding domain within the fiber protein, which served as a docking domain for binding with anti-MSLN immunoglobulins. Both RT-PCR and flow cytometry revealed high MSLN gene and protein expression in ovarian cancer cells. The MSLN promoter was activated in ovarian cancer cells, but showed significantly reduced activity in normal control cells. Transductional targeting of Ads via anti-MSLN antibody increased transgene expression in ovarian cancer cells. This report describes the use of MSLN for transcriptional as well as transductional targeting strategies for ovarian cancer gene therapy.
Deficiency of oncoretrovirally transduced hematopoietic stem cells and correction through ex vivo expansion.	Extensive efforts to develop hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) based gene therapy have been hampered by low gene marking. Major emphasis has so far been directed at improving gene transfer efficiency, but low gene marking in transplanted recipients might equally well reflect compromised repopulating activity of transduced cells, competing for reconstitution with endogenous and unmanipulated stem cells.
Highly efficient redirected anti-tumor activity of human lymphocytes transduced with a completely human chimeric immune receptor.	Novel antibody-based immunotherapeutic strategies exploit chimeric immune receptors (CIR), expressed on the surface of transduced human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), to redirect potent non-MHC-dependent cytotoxicity to tumor cells expressing a tumor-associated antigen. However, clinical application of the strategy has been hampered by the potential side effects associated with immunogenicity and by low transduction efficiency.
TNF receptor 1 is involved in the induction of apoptosis by the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 in the prostate cancer cell line PC-3.	Loss of p27Kip1, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, is observed in aggressive prostate cancers. We demonstrated that intratumoral injections of recombinant adenovirus overexpressing p27Kip1 (Adp27) reduced the growth of prostate cancer xenografts in nude mice. Presently, we studied the mechanism(s) of cell death induced by Adp27 in prostate cancer cell line PC-3. Cells were infected with Adp27 and compared with those infected by empty virus or were non-infected. Cell cycle and typical markers of apoptosis were analyzed by flow cytometry in the presence of the following reagents: cycloheximide, pan-caspase inhibitor ZVAD-fmk, neutralizing anti-TNFR1, and anti-TNFR2. Overexpression of p27Kip1 protein and cell cycle arrest were noted within 24 h after Adp27-infection. Sub-G1 fraction, chromatin margination, and phosphatidylserine exposure were evident by the third day of treatment. Cycloheximide elevated sub-G1 fraction in Adp27-infected cells by threefold, while ZVAD-fmk reduced sub-G1 to control levels. Caspase-dependent apoptosis occurred in a third of the population, while two-thirds were ZVAD-fmk insensitive but TUNEL-positive. Flow cytometry showed increased expression of TNFR1 and TNFR2 in Adp27-infected cells. Neutralizing anti-TNFR1 decreased TUNEL-positive score, while anti-TNFR2 did not affect p27Kip1-induced apoptosis. This is the first report showing that p27Kip1 induces caspase-dependent and -independent stages of cell death that may involve TNF-signaling through TNFR1.
Lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with envelope glycoproteins derived from human parainfluenza virus type 3.	We describe the generation of lentiviruses pseudotyped with human parainfluenza type 3 envelope (HPIV3) glycoproteins. Lentivirus particles, expressed in 293T/17 cells, incorporate HPIV3 hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) and fusion (F) proteins into their lipid bilayers and are able to transduce human kidney epithelial cells and polarized MDCK cells. Neuraminidase, AZT, and anti-HPIV3 antisera block transduction, which is consistent with lentiviral-mediated transduction via sialated receptors for HPIV3. Our findings show that HPIV3 pseudotyped lentiviruses can be formed and may have a number of useful properties for human gene transfer.
Gene-mediated restoration of cartilage matrix by combination insulin-like growth factor-I/interleukin-1 receptor antagonist therapy.	Combination of growth factor gene-enhanced cartilage matrix synthesis with interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein (IL-1Ra) abrogation of cartilage matrix degradation may reduce and possibly reverse cartilage loss in synovitis and osteoarthritis. The feasibility of cotransduction of synovial membrane with two such genes that may act on cartilage homeostasis was investigated in an in vitro coculture system. Cultured synoviocytes in monolayer were cotransduced with E1-deleted adenoviral vectors, one containing IGF-I coding sequence under cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter control (200 multiplicities of infection (moi)), and the second containing IL-1Ra sequence under CMV promoter control (100 moi). Adenovirus-IGF-I (AdIGF-I) transduction and AdIGF-I/AdIL-1Ra cotransduction of synovial monolayer cultures resulted in increased IGF-I mRNA and ligand expression, and similarly AdIL-1Ra and AdIGF-I/AdIL-1Ra-transduced cultures expressed high levels of IL-1Ra. Northern analysis confirmed a single mRNA transcript of the appropriate size for both IGF-I and IL-1Ra transgene expression. Synovial cell monolayer and cartilage explant coculture experiments were used to examine the effects of IGF-I and IL-1Ra protein expressed by transduced synoviocytes on normal and IL-1-depleted cartilage. Transduced monolayer cultures produced peak medium IGF-I content of 114+/-20.2 ng/ml and IL-1Ra levels of 241.8+/-10.5 ng/ml at 48 h after transduction. These IGF-I concentrations were sufficient to produce significantly increased proteoglycan (PG) content of normal cartilage cultured in medium conditioned by AdIGF-I and AdIGF-I/AdIL-1Ra-transduced synoviocytes. Interleukin-1-exposed cartilage was markedly depleted of PG, and this catabolic state was partially reversed in AdIGF-I-transduced cultures and fully reversed by AdIGF-I/AdIL-1Ra-transduced synovial cocultures. These data indicate that cultured synoviocytes are readily cotransduced by two recombinant adenoviral vectors containing transgenes active in restoring joint health. The AdIL-1Ra and AdIGF-I transgenes were abundantly expressed and the secreted products achieved therapeutic concentrations by day 2. The resulting increase in matrix biosynthesis returned cartilage PG content to normal levels. These data suggest that there may be significant value in cotransduction of synovial membrane to attenuate cartilage malacia associated with synovitis, injury, or early arthritis.
Combined ionizing radiation and sKDR gene delivery for treatment of prostate carcinomas.	Overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its cognate receptor KDR has been linked to a more aggressive phenotype of human prostate carcinomas. The importance of signal transduction through the VEGF receptor 2 is illustrated by use of soluble KDR, which binds to VEGF and sequesters this ligand before its binding to cellular receptor. Treatment with recombinant adenovirus AdVEGF-sKDR, encoding sKDR under control of the human VEGF promoter, significantly inhibited the proliferation of human vascular endothelial cells and prostate cancer cells. AdVEGF-sKDR infection decreased migration of endothelial 1P-1B cells (61% reduction) and DU145 prostate carcinoma cells (47%) in comparison with AdCMV-Luc-infected control cells. Ionizing radiation upregulated VEGF promoter activity in prostate carcinoma and endothelial cells. AdVEGF-sKDR infection significantly reduced human vascular endothelial and prostate cancer cell proliferation and sensitized cancer cells to ionizing radiation. In vivo tumor therapy studies demonstrated significant inhibition of DU145 tumor growth in mice that received combined AdVEGF-sKDR infection and ionizing radiation versus AdVEGF-sKDR alone or radiation therapy alone. These results suggest that selective transcriptional targeting of sKDR gene expression employing a radiation inducible promoter can effectively inhibit tumor growth and demonstrate the advantage of combination radiotherapy and gene therapy for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Overexpression of sarcolipin decreases myocyte contractility and calcium transient.	Sarcolipin (SLN) is a novel 31-amino-acid protein associated with the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) whose function in cardiac muscle is poorly defined. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that SLN is a regulator of SR Ca(2+) transport function by overexpressing SLN in adult rat ventricular myocytes which express low levels of SLN.
Cardiac reporter gene imaging using the human sodium/iodide symporter gene.	Imaging of reporter gene expression holds promise for noninvasive monitoring of cardiovascular molecular therapy. We investigated the feasibility of myocardial gene expression imaging in living rats using the human sodium/iodide symporter gene (hNIS) and widely available scintigraphic techniques.
Langerhans cells derived from genetically modified human CD34+ hemopoietic progenitors are more potent than peptide-pulsed Langerhans cells for inducing antigen-specific CD8+ cytolytic T lymphocyte responses.	Sustained Ag expression by human dendritic cells (DCs) is an attractive means of optimizing Ag presentation for stimulating durable cellular immunity. To establish proof of principle, we used Langerhans cell (LC) progeny of retrovirally transduced CD34(+) hemopoietic progenitor cells to stimulate responses against the HLA-A*0201-restricted influenza matrix peptide (fluMP). Retroviral transduction of CD34(+) hemopoietic progenitor cells, during pre-expansion by thrombopoietin, c-kit ligand, and FLT-3 ligand, on recombinant fibronectin, but in the absence of FCS, resulted in gene expression by 20-30% of the LCs. Expression persisted at least 28 days, with little decline (<30%) over that time. Retroviral transduction did not alter the phenotype or potent immunogenicity of normal mature DCs. FluMP-transduced LCs stimulated a 130-fold expansion of T cells reactive with HLA-A*0201-fluMP tetramers, even at LC:T cell ratios of 1:100-150 and lower, whereas fluMP-pulsed LCs stimulated only a 30-fold expansion. FluMP-transduced LCs also stimulated higher IFN-gamma secretion (100-123 spot-forming cells/10(5) CD8(+) T cells) than did fluMP-pulsed LCs (10-91 spot-forming cells/10(5) CD8(+) T cells). CD8(+) T cells stimulated by transduced LCs did not react preferentially with retrovirally transduced targets, indicating that the responses targeted only the immunizing influenza and not the retroviral vector Ags, even though these could have provided nonspecific helper epitopes presented by the transduced LCs. These data demonstrate that gene-transduced LCs maintain the activated phenotype as well potent immunogenicity typical of mature DCs. LCs genetically modified to express fluMP are also more potent stimulators of Ag-specific CD8(+) T cell responses than are peptide-pulsed LCs.
Adenovirus as an emerging pathogen in immunocompromised patients.	Adenoviruses are non-enveloped, lytic, DNA viruses capable of infecting most animal species. There are 51 different human adenovirus serotypes, which are grouped from A to F on the basis of genome size, composition, homology and organization. Pathogenicity varies according to group and type, but infections are generally well controlled by the host immune system in immunocompetent individuals. However, in the immunosuppressed, adenoviral infections are a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality. To date there is no effective therapy. Adoptive transfer of immune T cells offers a therapeutic option, but this strategy has been hindered by the lack of information on targets of protective cellular immunity, and by the immunological heterogeneity of the 51 human adenoviruses. Nevertheless, until such an approach is implemented, or an effective antiviral agent becomes commercially available, it is likely that adenovirus infections will continue to be responsible for a significant number of virus-associated deaths each year.
Periadventitial angiopoietin-1 gene transfer induces angiogenesis in rabbit carotid arteries.	This study was performed to evaluate angiogenic responses of angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) in vivo after adenovirus-mediated gene transfer in the periadventitial space of the rabbit carotid arteries using a collar technique. Adenoviruses encoding LacZ and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-1-Ig fusion protein (VEGF-R1-Ig) adenoviruses were used as controls. Increased neovessel formation was seen in adventitia of the Ang1 transduced arteries 7 days after the gene transfer. Neovessels in the Ang1 transduced arteries were large in size and well perfused. Ang1 binds to Tie2 (tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin and epidermal growth factor homology domain) receptors, which were expressed in the endothelium of the neovessels. When VEGF-R1-Ig was used with Ang1, it resulted in a decrease in the number of neovessels, which implies that VEGF-A or some other VEGF-R1 ligand(s) play a crucial role in angiogenesis occurring in response to Ang1. There were no significant differences in the total number of capillaries in the adventitia of the VEGF-R1-Ig transduced arteries as compared to LacZ controls. Neointima formation was not increased in the Ang1 transduced arteries as compared to the controls. We conclude that in the periadventitial space Ang1 shows angiogenic activity and is a potentially useful factor for the induction of therapeutic vascular growth in vivo.
Regulated and constitutive expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines by nontransforming herpesvirus saimiri vectors.	Herpesviral saimiri-(HVS) mediated expression of bovine growth hormone was one of the first applications of an episomal viral vector for gene therapy. Meanwhile, the long-term persistence of HVS vectors has been confirmed in a broad spectrum of infectable target cells in vitro and in vivo. Regulated gene expression is useful for many applications of gene therapy. Therefore, we inserted the Mifepristone-antiprogestin-inducible expression system (GeneSwitchtrade mark) into HVS viral vectors to regulate the combined expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and IL-1RA. Constitutive CMV-promoter/enhancer-driven and Mifepristone-inducible cytokine expression was compared in the viral context in transduced primary human fibroblasts and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fibroblast-like cells (RASF). Long-term persistence of vector genomes was shown for both construct types. Constitutive expression was efficient and more rapid in onset than in the inducible system, in which the selective induction of interleukin expression along with low background levels was obtained by Mifepristone concentrations that were more than 1000-fold below those required for endogenous Progesterone antagonism. Furthermore, transgene expression corresponded to vector doses. Global patterns of cytokine secretion were not significantly changed due to viral transduction, indicating a rather inert behavior of the viral vector itself. In an attempt to emulate the inflammatory cytokine-enriched environment in rheumatoid arthritic joints, the function of the vectors could be demonstrated in vitro by the successful blockade of IL-1beta-stimulated matrix-metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 expression from RASF cells. Evaluation of this system in future studies, in suitable long-term SCID models of RA or in non-human primate models, will exploit the possible in vivo benefits of nontransforming HVS vectors in gene therapy.
Exploiting T cell receptor genes for cancer immunotherapy.	Adoptive antigen-specific immunotherapy is an attractive concept for the treatment of cancer because it does not require immunocompetence of patients, and the specificity of transferred lymphocytes can be targeted against tumour-associated antigens that are poorly immunogenic and thus fail to effectively trigger autologous T cell responses. As the isolation and in vitro expansion of antigen-specific lymphocytes is difficult, 'conventional' adoptive T cell therapy can only be carried out in specialized centres in small numbers of patients. However, T cell receptor (TCR) genes isolated from antigen-specific T cells can be exploited as generic therapeutic molecules for 'unconventional' antigen-specific immunotherapy. Retroviral TCR gene transfer into patient T cells can readily produce populations of antigen-specific lymphocytes after a single round of polyclonal T cell stimulation. TCR gene modified lymphocytes are functionally competent in vitro, and can have therapeutic efficacy in murine models in vivo. TCR gene expression is stable and modified lymphocytes can develop into memory T cells. Introduction of TCR genes into CD8(+) and CD4(+) lymphocytes provides an opportunity to use the same TCR specificity to produce antigen-specific killer and helper T lymphocytes. Thus, TCR gene therapy provides an attractive strategy to develop antigen-specific immunotherapy with autologous lymphocytes as a generic treatment option.
Assessing adenoviral hammerhead ribozyme and small hairpin RNA cassettes in neurons: inhibition of endogenous caspase-3 activity and protection from apoptotic cell death.	Antisense technology, including ribozyme and small interfering RNA, is being developed to mediate the down-regulation of specific intracellular genes. It was observed in this study that both antiluciferase ribozymes and short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) could significantly reduce the activity of exogenously expressed luciferase in primary hippocampal neurons in a viral titer-dependent manner. shRNAs were more effective gene-silencing agents than ribozymes, although they exhibited some nonspecific gene-silencing effects at high viral titers. We also attempted to increase ribozyme efficacy by using a woodchuck hepatitis posttranscriptional regulatory element (WPRE) in the ribozyme expression cassette. The results showed that adenoviral vectors encoding specific ribozymes could silence the cellular expression of luciferase and endogenous procaspase-3 significantly. Furthermore, the antiprocaspase-3 ribozyme was shown to inhibit staurosporine-mediated cell death. The addition of a WPRE did not, however, increase or decrease ribozyme activity. As far as we are aware, this is the first example of adenovirally mediated delivery of hammerhead ribozymes being used to manipulate gene expression in primary neurons. The results therefore suggest that hammerhead ribozymes may be useful tools for studying neuronal gene function and have potential as therapeutic agents to treat CNS diseases.
Porcine adenovirus serotype 3 internalization is independent of CAR and alphavbeta3 or alphavbeta5 integrin.	Nonhuman adenoviruses including porcine adenovirus serotype 3 (PAd3) are emerging vectors for gene delivery. PAd3 efficiently transduces human and murine cells in culture, and circumvents preexisting humoral immunity in humans. The coxsackievirus-adenovirus receptor (CAR) serves as a primary receptor and alphavbeta3 or alphavbeta5 integrin as a secondary receptor for several human adenovirus (HAd) subtypes including HAd5. In this study, we deduced the role of CAR, alphavbeta3 or alphavbeta5 integrin in PAd3 internalization. Transduction experiments were conducted in human mammary epithelial (MCF-10A) cells using replication-defective PAd-GFP (PAd3 vector expressing green fluorescent protein [GFP]) and HAd-GFP (HAd5 vector expressing GFP). MCF-10A cells were treated with or without anti-human CAR, or anti-alphavbeta3 or anti-alphavbeta5 integrin antibodies prior to infection with HAd-GFP or PAd-GFP. Significant (P <0.05) inhibition in transduction by HAd-GFP was observed in antibody-treated cells as compared to untreated cells, whereas transduction by PAd-GFP remained to similar levels irrespective of the treatment. To study the adenoviral fiber knob-mediated virus interference, MCF-10A cells were treated with or without the recombinant HAd5 or PAd3 knob followed by infection with HAd-GFP or PAd-GFP. Significant (P <0.05) inhibition was observed only in transduction of the homologous vector. These results suggested that PAd3 internalization was CAR- as well as alphavbeta3 or alphavbeta5 integrin-independent and the primary receptor for HAd5 and PAd3 were distinct. CAR- and alphavbeta3 or alphavbeta5 integrin-independent entry of PAd3 vectors may have implications in targeting cell types that are not efficiently transduced by other adenoviral vectors.
An in vivo assay for retrovirally transduced human peripheral T lymphocytes using nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency mice.	Availability of a mouse model to analyze human peripheral lymphocytes genetically modified with retroviral vectors would be useful in T-cell-directed gene transfer studies. To address this issue, we assessed the ability of nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice to maintain such cells in their peripheral blood.
In vivo retroviral mediated gene transfer into bladder urothelium results in preferential transduction of tumoral cells.	Superficial bladder tumours are at high risk for recurrence, relapse after resection, escape to intravesical immunotherapy and they may become invasive. New therapeutics are therefore needed to achieve cure. Thus, gene therapy is an attractive new treatment modality for malignant bladder tumours. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and the efficiency of retroviral mediated reporter gene transfer into malignant urothelial cells both in vitro and in vivo.
Enhanced production of IL-10 by dendritic cells deficient in CIITA.	Dendritic cells (DC) are professional APCs that play a critical role in regulating immunity. In DC, maturation-induced changes in MHC class II expression and Ag presentation require transcriptional regulation by CIITA. To study the role of CIITA in DC, we evaluated key cell functions in DC from CIITA-deficient (CIITA(-/-)) mice. The ability to take up Ag, measured by fluid phase endocytosis, was comparable between CIITA(-/-) and control DC. Although CIITA(-/-) DC lack MHC class II, they maintained normal expression of costimulatory molecules CD80, CD86, and CD40. In contrast, CIITA(-/-) DC activated with LPS or CpG expressed increased IL-10 levels, but normal levels of TNF-alpha and IL-12 relative to control. Enhanced IL-10 was due to greater IL-10 mRNA in CIITA(-/-) DC. Abeta(-/-) DC, which lack MHC class II but express CIITA normally, had exhibited no difference in IL-10 compared with control. When CIITA was cotransfected with an IL-10 promoter-reporter into a mouse monocyte cell line, RAW 264.7, IL-10 promoter activity was decreased. In addition, reintroducing CIITA into CIITA(-/-) DC reduced production of IL-10. In all, these data suggest that CIITA negatively regulates expression of IL-10, and that CIITA may direct DC function in ways that extend beyond control of MHC class II.
Adenoviral-mediated neuron specific transduction of angiotensin II type 2 receptors.	The angiotensin II (Ang II) type 2 receptor (AT2R) is localized at specific nuclei within adult rat brain. However, a lack of specific approaches for manipulating the activity of neuronal AT2R has meant that the physiological actions of these sites in the brain remain to be established. Therefore, in this study, our aim was to develop a method by which AT2R can be specifically overexpressed in neurons and in rat brain, with the ultimate goal of a producing a system where discrete increases in AT2R levels in brain nuclei could reveal (and be linked to) physiological actions. Here, we have constructed an AT2R recombinant adenoviral vector, Ad5-SYN-AT2R-IRES-EGFP, which contains the AT2R gene and an IRES-linked EGFP reporter gene, both driven by the neuron-specific synapsin I (SYN) gene promoter. This vector efficiently transduces the AT2R into neuronal cells in culture and results in the expression of high levels of AT2R. These expressed receptors are functional in terms of inhibition of Erk mitogen activated protein kinases (Erk MAPK) and stimulation of neuronal K+ current. Furthermore, microinjection of this vector into adult rat brain elicits a long lasting ( approximately 1 month) expression of AT2R within neurons. In summary, we have developed a viral vector that can be used for the efficient transduction of AT2R into neurons both in vitro and in vivo, the use of which may help to define the physiological functions of brain AT2R in adult rats.
Systemic mannitol-induced hyperosmolality amplifies rAAV2-mediated striatal transduction to a greater extent than local co-infusion.	Recombinant viral vectors derived from adeno-associated virus serotype 2 (rAAV2) have been investigated as highly effective vehicles for gene transfer to the central nervous system (CNS). Transduction with rAAV2 vectors results in long-term transgene expression in CNS neurons. Optimal injection parameters leading to efficient targeting and spread of the transgene to large neuroanatomical regions are important in molecular gene therapy studies of the CNS. In the present study, we reexamined the effects of both local and systemic administration of mannitol-induced hyperosmolality on facilitation of transgene expression and vector distribution in the CNS. Systemic intraperitoneal administration of mannitol prior to vector administration improved gene transfer to striatal neurons, increasing the total number of transduced cells by 400% and vector distribution by 200%. On the other hand, local coadministration of mannitol in the striatum increased the number of transduced striatal neurons by 25% and had little effect on transduction volume. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that systemic coadministration of mannitol significantly enhances transgene spread of rAAV2 viral delivery in the brain to a much greater degree than local coadministration.
A new versatile and compact lentiviral vector.	During the past decade, lentiviral vectors based on the HIV-1 genome have been developed to become highly useful tools for efficient and stable delivery of transgenes to dividing and nondividing cells in a variety of experimental protocols. The vector system has been progressively and substantially improved,mainly to meet growing concerns over safety issues. However, the actual design and size of the lentiviral transfer vector often makes transgene cloning and DNA preparation a troublesome task. In this study, the pHR transfer vector used for lentivirus production in many laboratories was modified to contain a more versatile polylinker than the one present in the original pHR vector. In addition, the vector was significantly reduced in size from 12 to 7 kb, by replacing the original vector backbone with sequence from the multipurpose pUC18 vector. These modifications allowed for easier cloning and higher DNA yields without compromising the fundamental ability of this vector system to transduce cells in vitro and in vivo. Finally, the trimmed vector sequence was fully characterized by sequencing the vector in its entirety. In both cultured cells and directly into the rat striatum, transduction with this lentivirus, based on the modified pHsCXW vector, was as efficient and durable as with the pHR vector-based virus. In conclusion, the modified lentiviral transfer vector pHsCXW holds promise as a new valuable tool for the research community in the field of gene transfer.
Ex vivo generation of genetically modified dendritic cells for immunotherapy: implications of lymphocyte contamination.	Genetically modified dendritic cell (DC) vaccines expressing tumor-associated antigens are currently used for cancer immunotherapy. Peripheral blood (PB) monocyte precursors are a relatively convenient source of DCs for use in clinical studies, but are often contaminated by lymphocytes. The current study was conducted to examine the impact of T-lymphocyte contamination on genetically modified DC product. PB monocyte-derived DCs were efficiently transduced (75-95%) with an HIV-1-based self-inactivating lentiviral vector encoding a model antigen, the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP). The lymphocyte-free DC culture transduced with Lenti-eGFP showed stable expression of eGFP without measurable decline in viability. In contrast, the eGFP-positive DCs disappeared rapidly in transduced DC cultures containing lymphocyte contaminants, concurrent with detectable activation and expansion of T-lymphocytes. Upon antigen recall, these T cells elicited major histocompatability complex-restricted antigen-specific cytotoxicity against eGFP-positive autologous DCs and mitogen-stimulated T lymphoblasts, mainly through the perforin-mediated pathway. In summary, this study demonstrate that the relative purity of DC cultures could determine the persistence of gene-modified DC, which may affect the induction of effective immune responses by DC vaccination strategies.
Allodynia limits the usefulness of intraspinal neural stem cell grafts; directed differentiation improves outcome.	Several studies have reported functional improvement after transplantation of neural stem cells into injured spinal cord. We now provide evidence that grafting of adult neural stem cells into a rat thoracic spinal cord weight-drop injury improves motor recovery but also causes aberrant axonal sprouting associated with allodynia-like hypersensitivity of forepaws. Transduction of neural stem cells with neurogenin-2 before transplantation suppressed astrocytic differentiation of engrafted cells and prevented graft-induced sprouting and allodynia. Transduction with neurogenin-2 also improved the positive effects of engrafted stem cells, including increased amounts of myelin in the injured area, recovery of hindlimb locomotor function and hindlimb sensory responses, as determined by functional magnetic resonance imaging. These findings show that stem cell transplantation into injured spinal cord can cause severe side effects and call for caution in the consideration of clinical trials.
Gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy with carboxylesterase enhances the anticancer efficacy of the conditionally replicating adenovirus AdDelta24.	Conditionally replicating adenoviruses (CRAds) selectively replicate in and thereby kill cancer cells. The CRAd AdDelta24 with pRb-binding-deficient E1A kills cancer cells efficiently. Arming CRAds with genes encoding prodrug-converting enzymes could allow for enhanced anticancer efficacy by the combined effects of oncolytic replication and local prodrug activation. Here, we investigated combination treatment of human colon cancer cell lines with AdDelta24-type CRAds and gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy (GDEPT) using two different enzyme/prodrug systems, that is, thymidine kinase/ganciclovir (TK/GCV) and carboxylesterase (CE)/CPT-11. On all three cell lines tested, GDEPT with TK/GCV made CRAd treatment less efficacious. In contrast, expression of a secreted form of CE (sCE2) combined with CPT-11 treatment markedly enhanced the efficacy of AdDelta24 virotherapy. Based on this observation, we constructed an AdDelta24 variant expressing sCE2. In the absence of CPT-11, this new CRAd Ad5-Delta24.E3-sCE2 was similarly effective as its parent in killing human colon cancer cells. Low concentrations of CPT-11 inhibited Ad5-Delta24.E3-sCE2 propagation. Nevertheless, CPT-11 specifically augmented the cytotoxicity of Ad5-Delta24.E3-sCE2 against all three-colon cancer cell lines. Hence, the positive contribution of sCE2/CPT-11 GDEPT to colon cancer cytotoxicity outweighed its negative influence on CRAd propagation. Therefore, CRAd-sCE2/CPT-11 combination therapy appears useful for more effective treatment of colon cancer.
Gene transfer using the mature form of VEGF-D reduces neointimal thickening through nitric oxide-dependent mechanism.	Gene transfer to the vessel wall using vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) has shown therapeutic potential for the treatment of restenosis. In this study, we evaluated the effect of catheter-mediated adenoviral (Ad) gene transfer of the mature form of VEGF-D (VEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC)) in balloon-denuded cholesterol-fed rabbit aorta. AdLacZ was used as a control. Transduced VEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC) mRNA was detectable in the arterial wall with RT-PCR at 6, 14 and 28 days. Gene transfer efficiency as detected with X-gal staining 6 days after the AdLacZ transduction was 1.91 +/- 1.32% in intima. AdVEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC) gene transfer led to 52% reduction in intima/media ratio (I/M) as compared to the AdLacZ controls at 14 days time point. At 6 days there were no differences in I/M, but the number of macrophages in the vessel wall was 85% lower in the AdVEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC) group as compared to the controls. The therapeutic effect was no longer detectable 28 days after the gene transfer. The therapeutic effect of VEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC) was nitric oxide (NO)-dependent as the feeding of NO synthase inhibitor, L-NAME, blocked the reduction in intimal thickening. It is concluded that AdVEGF-D(DeltaNDeltaC) gene transfer reduces intimal thickening and macrophage influx into the vessel wall in balloon-denuded rabbit aortas.
In vivo evaluation of an EIAV vector for the systemic genetic delivery of therapeutic antibodies.	Lentiviral-based vectors hold great promise as gene delivery vehicles for the treatment of a wide variety of diseases. We have previously reported the development of a nonprimate lentiviral vector system based on the equine infectious anaemia virus (EIAV), which is able to efficiently transduce dividing and nondividing cells both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we report on the application of EIAV vectors for the systemic delivery of an antibody fusion protein designed for the treatment of cancer. The therapeutic potential of a single chain antibody against the tumour-associated antigen, 5T4, fused to immune enhancer moieties has been demonstrated in vitro and here we evaluate the genetic delivery of a 5T4 scFv fused to B7.1 (scFvB7) using an EIAV vector. The kinetics and concentration of protein produced following both intravenous (i.v.) and intramuscular (i.m.) administration was determined in immune competent adult mice. In addition, the immune response to the EIAV vector and the transgene were determined. Here, we show that a single injection of EIAV expressing scFv-B7 can give rise to concentrations of protein in the range of 1-5 microg/ml that persist in the sera for more than 50 days. After a second injection, concentrations of scFv-B7.1 rose as high as 20 microg/ml and levels greater than 2 microg/ml were present in the sera of all mice injected i.v. after 210 days despite the detection of antibodies against both the transgene and viral envelope for the duration of this study. These results demonstrate the potential of EIAV as a gene therapy vector for long-term production of therapeutic recombinant proteins.
Combined CD4+ Th1 effect and lymphotactin transgene expression enhance CD8+ Tc1 tumor localization and therapy.	Type 1 T cells are the major components in antitumor immunity. The lack of efficient CD8(+) cytotoxic T (Tc) cell infiltration of tumors is a major obstacle to adoptive Tc-cell therapy. We have previously demonstrated that adenovirus (AdV)-mediated transgene lymphotactin (Lptn) expression by intratumoral AdVLptn injection and intravenous CD4(+) helper T (Th) cell transfer can enhance Tc-cell tumor infiltration and eradication of early stage tumors (5 mm in diameter). In this study, we generated ovalbumin (OVA)-specific Tc1 and Th1 cells in vitro by incubation of OVA-pulsed dendritic cells with naive T cells from T-cell receptor (TCR) transgenic OT I and OT II mice. We then investigated the potential synergy of Th1 help effect and Lptn transgene expression in Tc1-cell therapy of well-established OVA-expressing EG7 solid tumors (7 mm in diameter). Our data showed that a combined adoptive T-cell therapy of Th1 (2.5 x 10(6) cells per mouse) and Tc1 (5 x 10(6) cells per mouse) resulted in regression of all eight (100%) transgene Lptn expressed EG7 tumors, which is significantly higher than four from eight (50%) in AdVLptn/Tc1 group and two from eight (25%) in Tc1/Th1 group (P < 0.05). The amount of transferred Tc1 cells detected in Lptn-expressed tumors with Th1 treatment is 0.72%, which is significantly higher than those of AdVLptn (0.22%), Th1 (0.41%) and the control AdVpLpA (0.09%) treatment groups (P < 0.05). Enhanced Tc1 tumor localization may be derived from the chemotactic effect of Lptn and the proliferative effect of Th1 and Lptn. This novel therapeutic strategy with enhancement of Tc1 tumor localization in the therapy of well-established tumors may become a tool of considerable conceptual interest in the implementation of future clinical objectives.
Cell-replacement therapy for diabetes: Generating functional insulin-producing tissue from adult human liver cells.	Shortage in tissue availability from cadaver donors and the need for life-long immunosuppression severely restrict the large-scale application of cell-replacement therapy for diabetic patients. This study suggests the potential use of adult human liver as alternate tissue for autologous beta-cell-replacement therapy. By using pancreatic and duodenal homeobox gene 1 (PDX-1) and soluble factors, we induced a comprehensive developmental shift of adult human liver cells into functional insulin-producing cells. PDX-1-treated human liver cells express insulin, store it in defined granules, and secrete the hormone in a glucose-regulated manner. When transplanted under the renal capsule of diabetic, immunodeficient mice, the cells ameliorated hyperglycemia for prolonged periods of time. Inducing developmental redirection of adult liver offers the potential of a cell-replacement therapy for diabetics by allowing the patient to be the donor of his own insulin-producing tissue.
Adeno-associated virus-mediated gene transfer to hair cells and support cells of the murine cochlea.	More than 28 million Americans suffer from various forms of hearing loss. The lack of effective treatments for many forms of hearing disorders has prompted interest in the potential application of gene delivery techniques to treat both inherited and pathological hearing disorders. However, to develop a gene therapy strategy that will successfully treat hearing disorders, appropriate vectors that are capable of transducing cochlear hair cells and support cells must be identified. In the present study, we examined the efficiency with which AAV vectors (serotypes 1, 2, and 5) transduce hair cells and support cells in cochlear explants from P0 and E13 mice. We further examined the ability of the CBA and GFAP promoters to drive expression of a GFP marker gene in hair cells and support cells. Robust GFP expression was observed in hair cells and support cells following transduction of primary murine cochlear explants with AAV serotypes 1 and 2, but not serotype 5. The CBA promoter predominantly drove GFP expression in hair cells. In contrast, strong expression from the GFAP promoter was observed primarily in support cells. Thus, using AAV vectors and specific promoters, cell-type-specific expression of transgenes can be established within the cochlea.
A novel bovine virus efficiently transduces inner ear neuroepithelial cells.	Disruption of the cellular composition or arrangement of the sensory epithelia due to hair cell or supporting cell damage leads to hearing loss and vestibular dysfunctions. These peripheral hearing disorders make good targets for gene therapy; however, development requires efficient gene transfer methods for the inner ear. Here we characterized the cellular tropism of a novel adeno-associated bovine virus vector (BAAV) in cultured rat inner ear epithelia. To help identify transduced cells, we used beta-actin-GFP as a reporter gene. We found that BAAV efficiently transduced auditory and vestibular hair cells as well as all types of supporting cells with no apparent pathological effects. The number of transduced hair cells significantly increased in both a dose- and a time-dependent manner. Transduction was independent of the cells' maturation state and was observed in both P2 and P10 cultures. Interestingly, even after several days of incubation with BAAV, hair cells demonstrated varying progression of beta-actin-GFP incorporation into the stereocilia. This suggests that the onset of viral transduction can occur throughout the course of the experiment. Of the other tested AAVs, AAV2 and AAV5 transduced only a small percentage of inner and vestibular hair cells, respectively, whereas no transduction was detected with AAV4.
Altering AAV tropism with mosaic viral capsids.	Over the past decade, AAV-based vectors have emerged as promising candidates for gene therapeutic applications. Despite the broad tropism of the first eight serotypes identified, certain cell types are refractory to transduction with AAV-based vectors. Furthermore, for certain applications the targeting of specific cell types is desirable. To improve on present methods to alter AAV2 tropism, we take advantage of AAV2 mosaics. Here, we show that AAV2 mosaics have improved infectivity compared with all-mutant virions. Using an AAV2 mutant that contains the immunoglobulin-binding Z34C fragment of protein A, we demonstrate the utility of AAV2 mosaics to alter AAV2 tropism. This system allows us to transduce selectively and efficiently MO7e and Jurkat cells. The use of AAV2 mosaics with a protein A fragment inserted into their capsid, together with targeting antibodies, is a versatile method that allows the specific transduction of a wide array of cell types.
Efficiency of transduction of highly purified murine hematopoietic stem cells by lentiviral and oncoretroviral vectors under conditions of minimal in vitro manipulation.	The development of leukemias in several children with severe combined immunodeficiency disease who were transplanted with retroviral vector-transduced bone marrow cells has renewed concerns about the risks associated with the random integration of proviral sequences into chromosomal DNA. One theoretical way to reduce the risks of insertional mutagenesis would be to employ transduction/transplantation protocols that minimize the total number of genetically modified cells and associated proviral integration "events" introduced into recipients. Toward this end, we have developed a transduction protocol that involves the short-term incubation of highly purified murine stem cells with high-titer recombinant lentivirus vectors in the presence of serum-free medium and the cytokines SCF and TPO. Competitive repopulation studies showed that stem cells transduced in this way possessed the same reconstitutive ability as fresh, unmanipulated cells. Animals transplanted with only 200-2000 transduced cells were efficiently reconstituted with the genetically modified cells, and most hematopoietic cells in the recipients expressed the transgene. In contrast, the use of high-titer oncoretroviral vectors in conjunction with the same transduction/transplantation protocol resulted in only low levels of gene marking in vivo. The use of a similar transduction/transplantation strategy in future clinical studies may offer distinct advantages over current protocols.
Efficient gene transfer to human epidermal keratinocytes on fibronectin: in vitro evidence for transduction of epidermal stem cells.	The epidermis is an attractive target for gene therapy because it is easily accessible and has great potential as an ectopic site for protein delivery in vivo. Genetically modified keratinocytes can be expanded in culture and used to generate three-dimensional skin equivalents, which can deliver therapeutic proteins either locally or systemically for the treatment of wounds or systemic diseases. Here we present an optimum protocol that yields consistently high retroviral gene transfer on a substrate of recombinant fibronectin (rFN). Gene transfer on rFN depends strongly on virus concentration and the density of target cells. Interestingly, the kinetics of gene transfer varies depending upon the origin--mouse or human--of virus-producer cells. Most notably, long-term growth and clonogenic assays show that transduction on rFN promotes gene transfer to epidermal stem cells and prevents loss of clonogenic potential due to exposure of cells to retroviral supernatant. In contrast, the traditional protocol transduces mostly differentiated keratinocytes. We also show that skin equivalents prepared from genetically modified keratinocytes display high levels of transgene expression, mainly in the suprabasal layers. Our results are important for cutaneous gene therapy and for biological studies that require efficient and permanent genetic modification.
Salivary glands as a potential gene transfer target for gene therapeutics of some monogenetic endocrine disorders.	Salivary glands (SGs) exhibit several important features which are also common to endocrine glands: self-containment due to a surrounding capsule, highly efficient protein production and the ability to secrete proteins into the bloodstream. We have hypothesized that SGs are potentially useful as gene transfer targets for the correction of inherited monogenetic endocrine disorders. In the present communication, we extend our studies and attempt to test our hypothesis by comparing the efficacy of two commonly used viral vectors and the resulting serum and salivary distribution of transgene encoded hormones. A low dose (5 x10(9) particles) of either an adenoviral serotype 5 (Ad5) vector encoding the human erythropoietin (hEPO) cDNA or an adeno-associated virus sero-type 2 (AAV2) vector encoding either the hEPO or human growth hormone (hGH) cDNA was administered to individual submandibular SGs of Balb/c mice. Serum and salivary hEPO and hGH levels were determined at defined time points. Two additional recombinant viruses encoding enhanced green fluorescence protein (GFP) were also used (AdGFP and AAVGFP) in order to perform immunohistochemical analyses of transgenic protein localization in SG sections post-administration. AAV2 vectors led to stable gene transfer unlike the results with the Ad5 vectors. Indeed, in one mouse we observed hEPO production for a period of two years after administration of AAVhEPO to SGs. hEPO, which is a constitutive pathway secretory protein, was readily secreted into the bloodstream from the SGs, yielding therapeutically adequate serum levels. Conversely, hGH, a regulated secretory pathway protein, was preferentially secreted into saliva. SGs may be an attractive candidate target tissue for gene therapeutics of some monogenetic endocrine deficiency disorders. At present, AAV2 vectors seem particularly useful for such applications, and transgenes encoding constitutive secretory pathway hormones are more suitable for this application with SGs than those encoding regulated secretory pathway hormones.
Optimized retroviral transduction protocol which preserves the primitive subpopulation of human hematopoietic cells.	Though both low-speed centrifugation and the use of fibronectin (Retronectin) fragments increase gene transduction efficiency, they still do not overcome the adverse effects of the presence of virus-containing medium (VCM). In this study, we improved transduction efficiency of primitive human hematopoietic cells by optimizing the conditions for preadsorbing culture dishes with retrovirus using a centrifugation protocol allowing subsequent infection to be carried out in the absence of VCM. We also demonstrate that preadsorbing tissue culture plates with retrovirus is dependent on the volume of VCM used for preadsorption and the length of centrifugation and the type of plasticware used but not on the temperature of centrifugation (4-33 degrees C). Direct exposure of CD34+ target cells to VCM depletes the primitive CD34+CD38neg subpopulation by more than 30%, whereas the optimized VCM-free infection protocol targets this population with equivalent efficiency but had no detrimental effects on CD34+CD38neg frequency. In summary, we demonstrate a high-frequency transduction protocol which preserves the therapeutically relevant primitive subpopulation of human hematopoietic cells.
Comparison of HIV-1 and EIAV-based lentiviral vectors in corneal transduction.	In this study we compare the ability of self-inactivating Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 (HIV-1) and Equine Infectious Anaemia Virus (EIAV)-based vectors to mediate gene transfer to rabbit and human corneas and to a murine corneal endothelial cell line. Both vectors were pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus-G (VSV-G) envelope and contained marker transgenes under the control of an internal CMV promoter. For specificity of action, the heterologous promoter in the EIAV-vector was exchanged for an inducible E-Selectin promoter, previously shown to regulate gene-expression in a plasmid system. We show that EIAV is more efficient than HIV in transducing human and rabbit corneal endothelial cells. Rabbit corneal endothelial cells are transduced in higher quantity than human corneal endothelial cells. In the inducible system, however, we detected impairment between the vector and its internal E-Selectin promoter. Instead of controlled transgene expression or silencing of promoter activity, the U3-modified long-terminal-repeats (LTR) impaired the conditional activity of the E-Selectin promoter. Significant transgene expression was seen without stimulation of the inducible promoter. We show efficient transduction by lentiviruses of a corneal endothelial cell line and of full thickness corneas from different species, confirming that those vectors would be appropriate tools for gene therapy of selected corneal diseases. However, the modification within the U3-LTR did not adequately allow regulated transgene expression. These findings have important implications for vector design for diagnostic or therapeutic opportunities.
Adenovirus mediated transduction of the human DNA polymerase eta cDNA.	Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an autosomal recessive photosensitive disorder with an extremely high incidence of skin cancers. Seven complementation groups, corresponding to seven proteins involved in nucleotide excision repair (NER), are associated with this syndrome. However, in XP variant patients, the disorder is caused by defects in DNA polymerase eta; this error prone polymerase, encoded by POLH, is involved in translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) on DNA templates damaged by ultraviolet light (UV). We constructed a recombinant adenovirus carrying the human POLH cDNA linked to the EGFP reporter gene (AdXPV-EGFP) and infected skin fibroblasts from both XPV and XPA patients. Twenty-four hours after infection, the DNA polymerase eta-EGFP fusion protein was detected by Western blot analysis, demonstrating successful transduction by the adenoviral vector. Protein expression was accompanied by reduction in the high sensitivity of XPV cells to UV, as determined by cell survival and apoptosis-induction assays. Moreover, the pronounced UV-induced inhibition of DNA synthesis in XPV cells and their arrest in S phase were attenuated in AdXPV-EGFP infected cells, confirming that the transduced polymerase was functional. However, over-expression of polymerase eta mediated by AdXPV-EGFP infection did not result in enhancement of cell survival, prevention of apoptosis, or higher rate of nascent DNA strand growth in irradiated XPA cells. These results suggest that TLS by DNA polymerase eta is not a limiting factor for recovery from cellular responses induced by UV in excision-repair deficient fibroblasts.
Targeting lentiviral vectors to specific cell types in vivo.	We have developed an efficient method to target lentivirus-mediated gene transduction to a desired cell type. It involves incorporation of antibody and fusogenic protein as two distinct molecules into the lentiviral surface. The fusogen is constructed by modifying viral envelope proteins, so that they lack the ability to bind to their cognate receptor but still retain the ability to trigger pH-dependent membrane fusion. Thus, the specificity of such a lentiviral vector is solely determined by the antibody, which is chosen to recognize a specific surface antigen of the desired cell type. This specific binding then induces endocytosis of the surface antigen, bringing the lentivirus into an endosome. There, the fusogen responds to the low pH environment and mediates membrane fusion, allowing the virus core to enter the cytosol. Using CD20 as a target antigen for human B cells, we have demonstrated that this targeting strategy is effective both in vitro and in intact animals. This methodology is flexible and can be extended to other forms of cell type-specific recognition to mediate targeting. The only requirement is that the antibody (or other binding protein) must be endocytosed after interaction with its cell surface-binding determinant.
Transposon-assisted cloning and traceless mutagenesis of adenoviruses: Development of a novel vector based on species D.	Until recently, adenovirus (Ad)-mediated gene therapy was almost exclusively based on human Ad type 5 (Ad5). Preexisting immunity and the limited, coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor-dependent tropism of Ad5 stimulated attempts to exploit the natural diversity in tropism of the other 50 known human Ad serotypes. Aiming in particular at immunotherapy and vaccination, we have screened representative serotypes from different Ad species for their ability to infect dendritic cells. Ad19a, an Ad from species D, was selected for development as a new vector for vaccination and cancer gene therapy. To clone and manipulate its genome, we have developed a novel methodology, coined "exposon mutagenesis," that allows the rapid and precise introduction of virtually any genetic alteration (deletions, point mutations, or insertions) into recombinant Ad bacterial artificial chromosomes. The versatility of the system was exemplified by deleting the E3 region of Ad19a, by specifically knocking out expression of a species-specific E3 gene, E3/49K, and by reinserting E3/49K into an E3 null Ad19a mutant. The technology requires only limited sequence information and is applicable to other Ad species. Therefore, it should be extremely valuable for the analysis of gene functions from any Ad species. In addition, a basic, replication-defective E1- and E3-deleted Ad19a vector expressing GFP (Ad19aGFP) was generated. This new vector based on species D Ads exhibits a very promising tropism for lymphoid and muscle cells and shows great potential as an alternative vector for transduction of cell types that are resistant to or only poorly transduced by conventional Ad5-based vectors.
Genetic reconstitution of bone marrow for the study of signal transduction ex vivo.	Introducing genes into cells by retroviral transduction has greatly increased the ability to study signal transduction pathways in primary cells. Retroviral transduction has proven to be an efficient method to express genes of interest in cells that are difficult to manipulate using standard transfection techniques. This technology also can be coupled with classic protocols for generating bone marrow chimeras. Murine bone marrow cells can be infected with a retrovirus expressing wild-type or mutant forms of a gene of interest and subsequently transplanted into irradiated recipient hosts. The requirement for a gene of interest in hematopoietic cell development, as well as its role in specific signal transduction pathways, can then be studied. This chapter provides protocols for the production of high-titer replication-incompetent retrovirus, retroviral infection of murine bone marrow, the generation of bone marrow chimeras, and analysis of chimeras by flow cytometry.
Retroviral transduction of hematopoietic progenitors derived from human embryonic stem cells.	It has been recently identified that cytokines and BMP-4 promote hematopoiesis from human embryonic stem cells (hESC) and that, before hematopoietic commitment, a rare subpopulation of cells lacking CD45, but expressing PECAM-1, Flk-1, and VE-cadherin (hereinafter termed CD45(neg)PFV precursors), are exclusively responsible for hematopoietic cell fate on cytokine stimulation. Efficient strategies to stably transduce these hematopoietic precursors specifically generated from hESCs would provide a novel and desirable tool to study hematopoietic development through the introduction and characterization of candidate genes suspected to regulate self-renewal processes of hESC-derived hematopoietic cells or dynamically track hESC-derived hematopoietic stem cells in vivo. To date, only transient transfection and stable transduction using lentiviral vectors have been reported in undifferentiated hESC followed by random and spontaneous differentiation into different cell types. However, protocols for stable transduction of hematopoietic progenitors prospectively derived from hESC need to be developed yet. In the present chapter, we described detailed methods on the recently characterized and optimized GALV-pseudotyped retroviral gene transfer strategy to stably transduce the hematopoietic progenitor cells prospectively derived from CD45(neg)PFV hemogenic precursors as a vital tool to study hematopoietic development and to characterize candidate genes suspected to eventually confer robust and sustained repopulating ability to hESC-derived hematopoietic cells.
Coxsackie adenovirus receptor and alpha nu beta3/alpha nu beta5 integrins in adenovirus gene transfer of rat cochlea.	This study was designed to determine whether Coxsackie adenovirus receptor (CAR) and alpha nu beta3/alpha nu beta5 integrin co-receptors are involved in adenovirus gene transfer in the rat cochlea. We find that CAR and integrin co-receptors are expressed in every cell subtype transduced by the adenoviral vector Ad5 DeltaE1-E3/cytomegalovirus/green fluorescent protein (GFP) on cochlear slices in vitro. The spiral ganglion neurons, which do not express CAR, were not transduced by the virus. Blocking these receptors by monoclonal antibodies decreased transgene expression, whereas disrupting tight junctions with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid led to an increased transgene expression. However, sensory hair cells and strial cells also expressing CAR and alpha nu integrins were not transduced by the vector. GFP expression was also studied in vivo. Perilymphatic perfusion of adenovirus in vivo did not affect hearing and only cells lining the perilymphatic spaces were transduced. Endolymphatic perfusion resulted in low-frequency hearing loss and although some cells of the organ of Corti were efficiently transduced, the sensory and the strial cells were not. Transduced sensory and strial cells were occasionally observed in cochleas after single shot of adenovirus. Pretreatment with anti-CAR and anti-alpha nu antibodies decreases GFP expression in vivo, suggesting that the CAR/alpha nu integrin pathway is involved in adenovirus transduction in the cochlea.
Gene therapy to inhibit xenoantibody production using lentiviral vectors in non-human primates.	Xenoantibodies to the gal alpha1,3 gal (gal) epitope impede the use of pig tissues for xenotransplantation, a procedure that may help overcome the shortage of human organ donors. Stable gal chimerism and tolerance to gal(+) hearts could be achieved in alpha1,3-galactosyltransferase (alpha1,3GT)(-/-) mice using lentiviral vectors expressing porcine alpha1,3GT, the enzyme that synthesizes the gal carbohydrate. In this study, we evaluated whether chimerism sufficient to inhibit anti-gal xenoantibody responses can be achieved using lentivectors in non-human primates. Rhesus macaques were transplanted with autologous, alpha1,3GT-transduced bone marrow (BM) following sublethal irradation. Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)- and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1-derived lentiviral constructs were compared. Chimerism was observed in several hematopoietic lineages in all monkeys. Engraftment in animals receiving SIV-based alpha1,3GT constructs was similar to that achieved using the HIV-1-derived lentivector for the first 2 months post-transplantation, but increased thereafter to reach higher levels by 5 months. Upon immunization with porcine hepatocytes, the production of anti-gal immunoglobulin M xenoantibody was substantially reduced in the gal(+) BM recipients compared to controls. This study is the first to report the application of gene therapy to achieve low-level, long-term gal chimerism sufficient to inhibit production of anti-gal antibodies after immunization with porcine cells in rhesus macaques.
A heparan sulfate-targeted conditionally replicative adenovirus, Ad5.pk7-Delta24, for the treatment of advanced breast cancer.	Conditionally replicating adenoviruses (CRAds) that replicate in tumor but less in normal cells are promising anticancer agents. A major determinant of their potency is their capacity for infecting target cells. The primary receptor for serotype 5 adenovirus (Ad5), the most widely used serotype in gene therapy, is the coxsackie-adenovirus receptor (CAR). CAR is expressed variably and often at low levels in various tumor types including advanced breast cancer. We generated a novel p16/retinoblastoma pathway-dependent CRAd, Ad5.pK7-Delta24, with a polylysine motif in the fiber C-terminus, enabling CAR-independent binding to heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG). Ad5.pK7-Delta24 mediated effective oncolysis of all breast cancer cell lines tested. Further, we utilized noninvasive, fluorescent imaging for analysis of antitumor efficacy in an orthotopic model of advanced hormone refractory breast cancer. A therapeutic benefit was seen following both intratumoral and intravenous delivery. Murine biodistribution similar to Ad5, proven safe in trials, suggests feasibility of clinical safety testing. Interestingly, upregulation of CAR was seen in low-CAR M4A4-LM3 breast cancer cells in vivo, which resulted in better than expected efficacy also with an isogenic CRAd with an unmodified capsid. These results suggest utility of Ad5.pK7-Delta24 and the orthotopic model for further translational studies.
Ectopic expression of glucagon-like peptide 1 for gene therapy of type II diabetes.	Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is a promising candidate for the treatment of type II diabetes. However, the short in vivo half-life of GLP-1 has made peptide-based treatments challenging. Gene therapy aimed at achieving continuous GLP-1 expression presents one way to circumvent the rapid turnover of GLP-1. We have created a GLP-1 minigene that can direct the secretion of active GLP-1 (amino acids 7-37). Plasmid and adenoviral expression vectors encoding the 31-amino-acid peptide linked to leader sequences required for secretion of GLP-1 yielded sustained levels of active GLP-1 that were significantly greater than endogenous levels. Systemic administration of expression vectors to animals using two diabetic rodent models, db/db mice and Zucker Diabetic Fatty (ZDF) rats, yielded elevated GLP-1 levels that lowered both the fasting and random-fed hyperglycemia present in these animals. Because the insulinotropic actions of GLP-1 are glucose dependent, no evidence of hypoglycemia was observed. Improved glucose homeostasis was demonstrated by improvements in %HbA1c (glycated hemoglobin) and in glucose tolerance tests. GLP-1-treated animals had higher circulating insulin levels and increased insulin immunostaining of pancreatic sections. GLP-1-treated ZDF rats showed diminished food intake and, in the first few weeks following vector administration, a diminished weight gain. These results demonstrate the feasibility of gene therapy for type II diabetes using GLP-1 expression vectors.
Inhibition of HIV-1 replication by simian restriction factors, TRIM5alpha and APOBEC3G.	Old World monkey TRIM5alpha targets incoming human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) viral capsid, whereas the apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme-catalytic polypeptide-like (APOBEC)3 family hypermutate/degrade viral sequences. Here, we show the potentials of simian TRIM5alpha and APOBEC3G as therapeutic sequences for AIDS gene therapy. Both rhesus and African green monkey (agm) TRIM5alpha efficiently restrict HIV-1 vectors with divergent Gag from different HIV-1 subtypes. Human T cells genetically engineered to express agm-TRIM5alpha block or delay HIV-1 replication. Although agm-APOBEC3G expression alone only transiently suppresses HIV-1 replication, co-expression of agm-APOBEC3G and agm-TRIM5alpha successfully block the virus replication for more than 5 weeks.
Dynamic assessment of antiangiogenic therapy by monitoring both tumoral vascularization and tissue degeneration.	Tumor growth is dependent both on endothelial and tumor cells. The aim of this study was to investigate dynamically whether changes in tumor vasculature implicate tumor tissue degeneration during antiangiogenic therapies. In order to quantify intra-tumor vascularization and necrosis, we have used ultrasound technology. This study has identified essential parameters needed to quantify specifically and sensitively the number of microvessels and the extent of necrosis in xenografted human carcinomas during natural tumor evolution, using contrast-enhanced high-frequency ultrasonography with (HFCDUS) or without (HFUS) color Doppler. We showed that quantification of intra-tumor microvessels between HFCDUS and immunohistochemistry is correlated using an anti-CD31 antibody. Furthermore, quantification of tumor necrosis with HFUS was confirmed by histological examination of hematoxylin-eosin-saffranin-stained sections over the observation period. Subsequently, for the assessment of novel angiogenic inhibitors, HFCDUS and HFUS were used to elucidate the underlying dynamics linking vessel inhibition and tumor eradication. We describe a novel application for HFCDUS/HFUS that constitutes an effective, convenient, and non-invasive method for clinical assessment of angiogenic inhibitors. In conclusion, we showed that tumor cells abruptly became necrotic following an antivascular therapy, whereas untreated tumors were protected from degeneration by a significant blood supply.
Neuroprotection by GDNF-secreting stem cells in a Huntington's disease model: optical neuroimage tracking of brain-grafted cells.	The use of stem cells for reconstructive or neuroprotective strategies can benefit from new advances in neuroimaging techniques to track grafted cells. In the present work, we analyze the potential of a neural stem cell (NSC) line, which stably expresses the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and the firefly luciferase gene (GDNF/Luc-NSC), for cell therapy in a Huntington's disease mouse model. Our results show that detection of light photons is an effective method to quantify the proliferation rate and to characterize the migration pathways of transplanted NSCs. Intravenous administration of luciferine, the luciferase substract, into the grafted animals allowed the detection of implanted cells in real time by an optical neuroimaging methodology, overpassing the limits of serial histological analyses. We observed that transplanted GDNF/Luc-NSCs survive after grafting and expand more when transplanted in quinolinate-lesioned nude mouse striata than when transplanted in non-lesioned mice. We also demonstrate that GDNF/Luc-NSCs prevent the degeneration of striatal neurons in the excitotoxic mouse model of Huntington's disease and reduce the amphetamine-induced rotational behavior in mice bearing unilateral lesions.
Variation of baculovirus-harbored transgene transcription among mesenchymal stem cell-derived progenitors leads to varied expression.	We have previously demonstrated that baculovirus can efficiently transduce human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and MSCs-derived adipogenic, chondrogenic, and osteogenic progenitors without compromising the differentiation capacity. Remarkably, the transgene expression level and duration varied widely with the differentiation states at which the progenitors were transduced. However, whether the variation was a general phenomenon and what caused the variation were unclear. Here we demonstrated that transduction of the MSCs and MSC-derived progenitors using baculoviruses carrying egfp driven by CMV, EF-1alpha or CAG promoter resulted in a general trend of varied expression, that is, the chondrogenic progenitors allowed for the poorest expression while the adipogenic progenitors conferred the best expression. Quantification of the nuclear and cytoplasmic egfp gene copy numbers by quantitative real-time PCR revealed that the varied expression did not arise from the discrepancies in gene delivery efficiency nor was it due to the disparities in nuclear transport efficiency. In contrast, the transcription levels paralleled the overall expression levels. These data suggested that although the egfp genes could be efficiently delivered into the nuclei of chondrogenic progenitors, they were not transcribed as well as they were in the adipogenic progenitors. In conclusion, the rapidly altering cellular transcription machinery in the course of differentiation progression predominantly led to the varied expression levels.
Reduction of hyperacute rejection and protection of metabolism and function in hearts of human decay accelerating factor (hDAF)-expressing pigs.	The use of pig hearts can solve the problem of shortage of donor hearts for transplantation. However, targeting rejection by single genetic modification was proven to be ineffective, highlighting the requirement for complex genetic modifications and more effective methods for transgenic animal production. We evaluated here whether hearts of hDAF transgenic pigs generated using our technique sperm-mediated gene transfer (SMGT) will be protected from structural damage, metabolic changes, and mechanical dysfunction during perfusion with human blood.
Tissue kallikrein protects against pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy through kinin B2 receptor and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta activation.	We assessed the role of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) and kinin B2 receptor in mediating tissue kallikrein's protective effects against cardiac hypertrophy.
Tat-mediated protein delivery in living Caenorhabditis elegans.	The Tat protein from HIV-1 fused with heterologous proteins traverses biological membranes in a transcellular process called: protein transduction. This has already been successfully exploited in various biological models, but never in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans. TAT-eGFP or GST-eGFP proteins were fed to C. elegans worms, which resulted in the specific localization of Tat-eGFP to epithelial intestinal cells. This system represents an efficient tool for transcellular transduction in C. elegans intestinal cells. Indeed, this approach avoids the use of tedious purification steps to purify the TAT fusion proteins and allows for rapid analyses of the transduced proteins. In addition, it may represent an efficient tool to functionally analyze the mechanisms of protein transduction as well as to complement RNAi/KO in the epithelial intestinal system. To sum up, the advantage of this technology is to combine the potential of bacterial expression system and the Tat-mediated transduction technique in living worm.
The osteoinductive properties of Nell-1 in a rat spinal fusion model.	Recombinant growth factors bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and BMP-7 are currently approved for human use but are associated with various adverse effects including ectopic bone formation and local inflammatory reaction. The development of alternative growth factors may help minimize the adverse effects of current osteoinductive therapeutics. Nell-1 (Nel-like molecule-1; Nel [a protein strongly expressed in neural tissue encoding epidermal growth factor like domain]) is a novel secretory molecule that appears to act more specifically on osteoblasts than the BMPs, which can act on multiple cell types. From a molecular point of view, Nell-1 is directly regulated by runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2/Cbfa1), a master regulatory gene controlling bone formation. Previous studies showed that Nell-1 accelerates osteogenic differentiation in vitro and calvarial bone formation in vivo. We hypothesize that Nell-1 may also effectively form bone in spinal fusion.
Construction and characterization of efficient, stable and safe replication-deficient foamy virus vectors.	As serious side effects affected recent virus-mediated gene transfer studies, novel vectors with improved safety profiles are urgently needed. In the present study, replication-deficient retroviral vectors based on feline foamy virus (FFV) were constructed and analyzed. The novel FFV vectors are devoid of almost the complete env gene plus the internal promoter - accessory bel gene cassette including the gene for the viral transcriptional transactivator Bel1/Tas. In these Bel1/Tas-independent vectors, expression of the lacZ (beta-galactosidase) marker gene is directed by the heterologous, constitutively active human ubiquitin C promoter (ubi). Env-transcomplemented vectors have un-concentrated titers of more than 10(5) transducing units/ml. The vectors allow efficient transduction of a broad array of diverse target cells, which can be increased by repeated vector exposure. However, the number of lacZ marker gene expressing cells decreased slightly upon serial passages of the transduced cells. Vectors carrying a self-inactivating (SIN) deletion of the TATA box and most parts of the viral promoter were not rescued by wt FFV whereas those with the intact or a partially deleted promoter were readily reactivated. This finding indicates that the viral promoters are in fact non-functional, pointing to a highly advantageous safety profile of these new FFV-ubi-lacZ-SIN vectors.
Suspension packaging cell lines for the simplified generation of T-cell receptor encoding retrovirus vector particles.	The transfer of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes into primary human T-cells to endow their specificity toward virus-infected and tumor cells is becoming an interesting tool for immunotherapy. TCR-modified T cells are mainly generated by retrovirus-mediated gene transfer. To produce TCR-retrovirus particles, fibroblast packaging cell lines are the most common tool. We constructed two packaging cell lines based on the human suspension T-cell lymphoma line Deltabeta-Jurkat, which lacks endogenous TCRbeta-chains and is therefore unable to express CD3 complexes on the cell surface. After supply of gag-pol (murine leukemia virus (Mo-MLV)) and env (GALV or MLV-10A1) genes, a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-encoding retrovirus vector was transduced into both packaging cell clones, which then stably produced GFP-retroviruses with titers of up to 4 x 10(5) infectious particles (IP)/ml. After transfer of a TCRalpha/beta-encoding retrovirus vector, Deltabeta-Jurkat/GALV and Deltabeta-Jurkat/10A1 cells expressed CD3 molecules on the cell surface. CD3-high expressing packaging cells were enriched by fluorescence-activated cell sorter sorting. In these cells, the CD3 expression level directly correlated with the titer of vector particles. TCR-retroviruses efficiently transduced human T-cell lines and primary T cells. In conclusion, the method allowed the fast and easy generation of high virus titer supernatants for TCR gene transfer.
Species differences in transgene DNA uptake in hepatocytes after adenoviral transfer correlate with the size of endothelial fenestrae.	Sinusoidal fenestrae may restrict the transport of gene transfer vectors according to their size. Using Vitrobot technology and cryo-electron microscopy, we show that the diameter of human adenoviral serotype 5 vectors is 93 nm with protruding fibers of 30 nm. Thus, a diameter of fenestrae of 150 nm or more is likely to be sufficient for passage of vectors from the sinusoidal lumen to the space of Disse and subsequent uptake of vectors in hepatocytes. The average diameter of fenestrae in New Zealand White rabbits (103+/-1.3 nm) was 1.4-fold (P<0.0001) lower than in C57BL/6 mice (141+/-5.4 nm). The percentage of sinusoidal fenestrae with a diameter larger than 150 nm was 10-fold (P<0.01) lower in rabbits (3.2+/-0.24%) than in C57BL/6 mice (32+/-5%), and this resulted in 8.8-fold (P=0.01) lower transgene DNA levels in hepatocytes in rabbits after adenoviral transfer. Injection of N-acetylcysteine combined with transient liver ischemia preceding intraportal transfer in rabbits increased the percentage of sinusoidal fenestrae above 150 nm 2.0-fold (P<0.001) and increased transgene DNA levels in hepatocytes 6.6-fold (P<0.05). In conclusion, species differences in transgene DNA uptake in hepatocytes after adenoviral transfer correlate with the diameter of fenestrae.
Identification of cell-type-specific promoters within the brain using lentiviral vectors.	The development of cell-type-specific mini-promoters for genetic studies is complicated by a number of issues. Here, we describe a general method for the relatively rapid screening of specific promoter activity in cell culture, in acute brain slice preparations and in vivo. Specifically, we examine the activity of an approximately 3 kb promoter region from the neuroactive peptide cholecystokinin (CCK) compared to the commonly used cytomegalovirus promoter. We find a high degree of cell-type selectivity in vivo using lentiviral approaches in rats and traditional transgenic approaches in mice. Appropriate colocalization of Cre-recombinase and CCK gene expression is found within the hippocampus, when the CCK promoter is driving either the expression of Cre-recombinase or green fluorescent protein. We also demonstrate fluorescent identification of CCK-positive interneurons that allows for cell-type-specific electrophysiologic studies in rats and mice. In conclusion, these studies identify a functional mini-promoter for the CCK gene and outline a novel and sensitive general method to test activity of selective promoters in vitro and in vivo. This approach may allow for the more rapid identification of specific promoters for use with transgenic animals, in genetically modified viruses, and in the design of targeted, therapeutic gene-delivery systems.
Neuroprotective effect of adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of TIMP-1 and -2 in ischemic brain injury.	Gene therapy may be a promising approach for treatment of brain ischemia. We and others previously demonstrated that increased activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) contributes to the tissue damage that results from ischemic injury. The proteolysis of MMPs is tightly controlled by tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMPs). In this study, we examined whether adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 could protect against neuronal damage induced by global cerebral ischemia in mice. An adenovirus expressing TIMP-1 or TIMP-2 (AdTIMP-1 or AdTIMP-2) or a control adenovirus (RAd60) or vehicle was injected into the striatum 3 days before transient global cerebral ischemia. The extent of neuronal damage was quantified 3 days post-ischemia. There was no significant difference in the extent of neuronal damage in vehicle as compared to RAd60-treated mice. In contrast, neuronal damage was reduced, by approximately 50%, after gene transfer of AdTIMP-1 (P<0.001) and AdTIMP-2 (P< 0.01) as compared to controls. This study provides the first in vivo evidence of the protective effects of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 via gene transfer in global ischemia.
Differential characteristics of HIV-based versus SIV-based lentiviral vector systems: Gene delivery to neurons and axonal transport of expressed gene.	The differential characteristics of lentiviral vectors based on human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV) were investigated in rats and monkeys. Each vector was injected into the striatum, and the expression patterns of the marker gene green fluorescent protein (GFP) were analyzed in the basal ganglia. With respect to the capability of gene delivery to neural cells, the HIV-based vector exhibited a higher tropism to neurons than to astroglias in the striatum, and vice versa for the SIV-based vector. The preferential direction of axonal transport of striatally expressed GFP was also examined in the present study. The HIV-based vector allowed for both anterograde transport via the striatopallidal and striatonigral pathways and retrograde transport via the nigrostriatal pathway. The GFP labeling of axon terminals through anterograde transport was apparent regardless of the animal species, while that of neuronal cell bodies through retrograde transport was much more prominent in monkeys than in rats. As for the SIV-based vector, on the other hand, evidence for anterograde transport was obtained much more markedly in monkeys than in rats, and only weak or no retrograde transport occurred in either monkeys or rats. Our results indicate that HIV-based, but not SIV-based, lentiviral vectors possess the high tropism to neurons and permit retrograde transport of an expressed gene, especially in primates. The latter property might carry a potential benefit in gene therapy for Parkinson's disease, as stereotaxic injections of the vectors could be performed into the striatum, spatially larger than the substantia nigra, with greater certainty.
Increased tumor localization and reduced immune response to adenoviral vector formulated with the liposome DDAB/DOPE.	We aimed to increase the efficiency of adenoviral vectors by limiting adenoviral spread from the target site and reducing unwanted host immune responses to the vector. We complexed adenoviral vectors with DDAB-DOPE liposomes to form adenovirus-liposomal (AL) complexes. AL complexes were delivered by intratumoral injection in an immunocompetent subcutaneous rat tumor model and the immunogenicity of the AL complexes and the expression efficiency in the tumor and other organs was examined. Animals treated with the AL complexes had significantly lower levels of beta-galactosidase expression in systemic tissues compared to animals treated with the naked adenovirus (NA) (P<0.05). The tumor to non-tumor ratio of beta-galactosidase marker expression was significantly higher for the AL complex treated animals. NA induced significantly higher titers of adenoviral-specific antibodies compared to the AL complexes (P<0.05). The AL complexes provided protection (immunoshielding) to the adenovirus from neutralizing antibody. Forty-seven percent more beta-galactosidase expression was detected following intratumoral injection with AL complexes compared to the NA in animals pre-immunized with adenovirus.
Efficient transduction of simian cells by HIV-1-based lentiviral vectors that contain mutations in the capsid protein.	Recently, the cyclophilin A (CyPA)-binding region of the HIV-1 capsid protein was identified as a viral determinant involved in the post-entry restriction in Old World monkey cells. Here, we constructed a panel of HIV-1-based lentiviral vectors (LVs) that contain either mutations in the CyPA-binding region or the CyPA-binding region of the related viruses HIV-1 group O and HIV-2. We demonstrated that amino-acid changes in the CyPA-binding region of the capsid can alter the phenotype of the virus resulting in CyPA-independent infection in human cells and non-restricted infection in simian cells. Combining these data with the available structural data, we speculate that reduced affinity of the capsid for CyPA is associated with an unrestricted infection of simian cells. In addition, we observed that primary rhesus macaque peripheral blood mononuclear cells could be transduced efficiently by the LV that contained the CyPA-binding region of HIV-2. Therefore, this LV might be very useful for long-term safety studies in large animal models like rhesus macaques.
Lentivirus-mediated gene transfer to the rat, ovine and human cornea.	Gene therapy of the cornea shows promise for modulating corneal transplant rejection but the most appropriate vector for gene transfer has yet to be determined. We investigated a lentiviral vector (LV) for its ability to transduce corneal endothelium. A lentivector expressing enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (eYFP) under the control of the Simian virus type 40 early promoter (LV-SV40-eYFP) transduced 80-90% of rat, ovine and human corneal endothelial cells as detected by fluorescence microscopy. The kinetics of gene expression varied among species, with ovine corneal endothelium showing a relative delay in detectable reporter gene expression compared with the rat or human corneal endothelium. Vectors containing the myeloproliferative sarcoma virus promoter or the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter were not significantly more effective than LV-SV40-eYFP. The stability of eYFP expression in rat and ovine corneas following ex vivo transduction of the donor cornea was assessed following orthotopic corneal transplantation. Following transduction ex vivo, eYFP expression was maintained in corneal endothelial cells for at least 28 days after corneal transplantation in the sheep and >60 days in the rat. Thus, rat, ovine and human corneal endothelial cells were efficiently transduced by the LV, and gene expression appeared stable over weeks in vivo.
Adenoviral gene delivery to solid tumors by recombinant silk-elastinlike protein polymers.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential of silk-elastinlike protein polymers (SELPs) in controlling the release rate of adenoviruses in vitro and in vivo while preserving their bioactivity.
X-chromosome linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein inhibits muscle proteolysis in insulin-deficient mice.	Loss of muscle protein is a serious complication of catabolic diseases and contributes substantially to patients' morbidity and mortality. This muscle loss is mediated largely by the activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system; however, caspase-3 catalyzes an initial step in this process by cleaving actomyosin into small protein fragments that are rapidly degraded by the proteasome-dependent proteolytic pathway. We hypothesized that X-chromosome linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), an endogenous caspase-3 inhibitor, would block this first step in the cleavage of actomyosin that would make XIAP a candidate for treating muscle wasting. To determine if XIAP could attenuate muscle protein degradation, we used a recombinant lentivirus (Len-XIAP) encoding the full-length human XIAP cDNA to express XIAP in vivo. In muscle of streptozotocin-treated insulin-deficient mice, total muscle protein degradation, caspase-3 activity, and myofibril destruction were increased while XIAP was decreased. Overexpression of XIAP in these mice attenuated the excessive muscle protein degradation. Increased proteasome activity, caspase-3 activity and myofibril protein breakdown were all reduced. The ability of XIAP to prevent the loss of muscle protein suggests that XIAP could be a therapeutic reagent for muscle atrophy in catabolic diseases.
Enhanced lentiviral transduction of monocyte-derived dendritic cells in the presence of conditioned medium from dying monocytes.	Lentiviral vectors (LVs) are attractive vehicles for the transduction of human dendritic cells (DCs) in order to mobilize their endogenous antigen presentation pathways. We analyzed here how to improve the efficiency of LV transduction, which we performed at the initial stages of the differentiation of purified monocytes into dendritic cells (Mo-DCs). Using LVs pseudotyped with the vesicular stomatitis virus envelope G glycoprotein (VSV-G), we found that a conditioned medium derived from dying monocytes (MCM) improved by 2- to 10- fold the proportion of transduced Mo-DCs. This enhanced transduction efficiency requires the presence of MCM during the initial stage of LV transduction and does not affect the phenotype and antigen presentation function of terminally differentiated Mo-DCs. Importantly, we found that MCM derived from a human acute monocytic leukemia cell line, THP-1, was equally effective. The MCM activity was heat stable (56 degrees C) and was present in the soluble fraction after high-speed centrifugation. Altogether our results show that a soluble factor present in dying monocyte cultures can replace advantageously facilitating agents such as Polybrene, to achieve high LV transductions levels. This protocol can be performed with autologous monocytes and is therefore applicable in clinical settings.
Histone-mediated transduction as an efficient means for gene delivery.	Gene delivery into the nucleus of eukaryotic cells is inefficient, largely because of the significant barriers within the target cell of the plasma membrane and nuclear envelope. Recently, a group of basic proteins, including the HIV-1 Tat protein and the four core histones, have been shown to enter cells through a novel energy- and receptor-independent manner. Here, we show that engineered histone H2B proteins are able to mediate the efficient delivery of either green fluorescent protein or DNA into HeLa cells through the process of "Histone-Mediated Transduction" (HMT), with further enhancement achieved by utilizing a dimer of histones H2B and H2A. Subsequent nuclear delivery was accelerated approximately two-fold by the addition of an optimized nuclear localization signal to histone H2B, thereby increasing the affinity of interaction with components of the cellular nuclear import machinery, resulting in increased expression of a reporter gene. Further, we demonstrate that the domains responsible for this histone transduction are located in the N-terminal tail and globular regions of histone H2B. HMT represents a new, efficient, and technically non-demanding means to deliver DNA to the nucleus of intact cells, including embryonic stem cells, which has important applications in gene therapy and cancer therapeutics.
Development of recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors carrying small interfering RNA (shHec1)-mediated depletion of kinetochore Hec1 protein in tumor cells.	Transcript depletion using small interfering RNA (siRNA) technology represents a potentially valuable technique for the treatment of cancer. However, delivering therapeutic quantities of siRNA into solid tumors by chemical transfection is not feasible, whereas viral vectors efficiently transduce many human tumor cell lines. Yet producing sufficient quantities of viral vectors that elicit acute and selective cytotoxicity remains a major obstacle for preclinical and clinical trials. Using the invertebrate Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cell line, we were able to produce high titer stocks of cytotoxic recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) that express short hairpin RNA (shRNA) and that efficiently deplete Hec1 (highly expressed in cancer 1), or Kntc2 (kinetochore-associated protein 2), a kinetochore protein directly involved in kinetochore microtubule interactions, chromosome congression and spindle checkpoint signaling. Depletion of Hec1 protein results in persistent spindle checkpoint activation followed by cell death. Because Hec1 expression and activity are only present in mitotic cells, non-dividing cells were not affected by rAAV treatment. On the basis of the results of screening 56 human tumor cell lines with three different serotype vectors, we used a tumor xenograft model to test the effects in vivo. The effects of the shHec1 vector were evident in sectioned and stained tumors. The experiments with rAAV-shRNA vectors demonstrate the utility of producing vectors in invertebrate cells to obtain sufficient concentrations and quantities for solid tumor therapy. This addresses an important requirement for cancer gene therapy, to produce cytotoxic vectors in sufficient quantities and concentrations to enable quantitative transduction and selective killing of solid tumor cells.
Toll-like receptor 7 and MyD88 knockdown by lentivirus-mediated RNA interference to porcine dendritic cell subsets.	Sensing of viruses by dendritic cell (DC) pathogen recognition receptors (PRRs) represents a critical event during innate antiviral immune responses. Identification of these PRRs has often posed a problem due to difficulties in performing gene function studies in the naturally targeted hosts. Consequently, we developed a lentivirus (LV)-based strategy for specific gene knockdown in porcine DC. Short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) were designed, targeting toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) and the adaptor protein MyD88. As cellular targets, monocyte-derived DC (MoDC) and Flt3 ligand-induced DC (Flt3L-DC), DC precursors including monocytes and haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) as well as plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) were employed. Transduction efficiencies ranged from 40 to 95%. The LV-mediated shRNA delivery was functionally active, reducing TLR7 and MyD88 mRNA in MoDC and conventional Flt3L-DC, and blunting the responsiveness to TLR7 ligands in Flt3L-DC. Although infection of MoDC by the LV did neither influence MHC class II and CD80/86 expressions, nor cytokine responses, the infection of Flt3L-DC induced a phenotypic maturation. Furthermore, the interaction of the LV with pDC induced high levels of interferon-alpha. Taken together, these studies characterize the interaction of the LV with different DC subsets and demonstrate the suitability of LV-mediated small interfering RNA delivery for targeting PRR knockout for MoDC and conventional Flt3L-DC.
AAV-mediated delivery of a mutated myostatin propeptide ameliorates calpain 3 but not alpha-sarcoglycan deficiency.	Myostatin is a negative regulator of muscle mass whose inhibition has been proposed as a therapeutic strategy for muscle-wasting conditions. Indeed, blocking myostatin action through different strategies has proved beneficial for the pathophysiology of the dystrophin-deficient mdx mouse. In this report, we tested the inhibition of myostatin by AAV-mediated expression of a mutated propeptide in animal models of two limb-girdle muscular dystrophies: LGMD2A caused by mutations in the calpain 3 (CAPN3) gene and LGMD2D caused by mutations in the alpha-sarcoglycan gene (SGCA). In the highly regenerative Sgca-null mice, survival of the alpha-sarcoglycan-deficient muscle fibers did not improve after transfer of the myostatin propeptide. In calpain 3-deficient mice, a boost in muscle mass and an increase in absolute force were obtained, suggesting that myostatin inhibition could constitute a therapeutic strategy in this predominantly atrophic disorder.
Stable gene expression occurs from a minority of integrated HIV-1-based vectors: transcriptional silencing is present in the majority.	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-based vectors are being increasingly used in vitro for gene transfer and in vivo for gene therapy. The proportion of integrated retroviral vectors that are silenced or remain transcriptionally active, and the stability of gene expression in the latter remains poorly explored. To study this, T cells were infected with an HIV-1-based vector construct containing a long terminal repeat-driven reporter gene. Only a small percentage of detectable integrated vector expressed gene product. In clones derived from cells with transcriptionally active vector, gene expression was remarkably stable with more than 80% continuing to express for greater than 18 months. Failure to continue expressing the vector was associated with epigenetic changes. Our data suggest that there are two forms of vector silencing: one occurring immediately after integration affecting the majority of the vectors, and one occurring in the much longer term affecting a small minority of vectors which had previously established expression.
Endochondral bone formation from hydrogel carriers loaded with BMP2-transduced cells.	The success of ex vivo viral gene therapy systems for promoting bone formation could be improved through the development of systems to spatially localize gene expression. Towards this goal, we have encapsulated adenovirus-transduced human diploid fetal lung fibroblasts (MRC-5) expressing bone morphogenetic protein-type 2 (BMP-2) within non-degradable poly(ethylene glycol)-diacrylate (PEG-DA) hydrogels and implanted these intramuscularly to promote endochondral bone formation. To optimize BMP-2 secretion, the molecular weight of the polymers and cell densities were varied. Polymers with molecular weights of 6, 10, and 20 kDa were used to prepare hydrogels containing 1, 5, or 10 million transduced cells. The results showed that 10 million transduced fibroblasts that was the maximum number of cells feasible for encapsulation within PEG-DA 10 and 20 kDa hydrogels produced the highest amount of secreted BMP-2 protein. Encapsulation of MRC-5 and transduced fibroblasts resulted in 71 and 58% cell viability, respectively. The bioactivity of secreted BMP-2 protein from the hydrogels was confirmed with an alkaline phosphatase assay. Micro-CT of the lower limb muscles of NOD/SCID mice following implantation with hydrogels showed 39.5 +/- 25.0 mm3 mineralized tissue and 31.8 +/- 7.8 mm3 for the cell-injected mice, and the bone was localized to the hydrogel surfaces. Histology revealed bone as well as cartilage for both hydrogel implanted and cell-injected animals.
Metabolic correction in oligodendrocytes derived from metachromatic leukodystrophy mouse model by using encapsulated recombinant myoblasts.	In an effort to develop an encapsulated cell-based system to deliver arylsulfatase A (ARSA) to the central nervous system of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) patients, we engineered C2C12 mouse myoblasts with a retroviral vector containing a full-length human ARSA cDNA and evaluated the efficacy of the recombinant secreted enzyme to revert the MLD phenotype in oligodendrocytes (OL) of the As2-/- mouse model. After transduction, C2C12 cells showed a fifteen-fold increase in intracellular ARSA activity and five-fold increase in ARSA secretion. The secreted hARSA collected from transduced cells encapsulated in polyether-sulfone polymer, was taken up by enzyme-deficient OL derived from MLD mice and normally sorted to the lysosomal compartment, where transferred enzyme reached 80% of physiological levels, restoring the metabolism of sulfatide. To evaluate whether secreted enzyme could restore metabolic function in the brain, encapsulated cells and secreted ARSA were shown to be stable in CSF in vitro. Further, to test cell viability and enzyme release in vivo, encapsulated cells were implanted subcutaneously on the dorsal flank of DBA/2J mice. One month later, all retrieved implants released hARSA at rates similar to unencapsulated cells and contained well preserved myoblasts, demonstrating that encapsulation maintains differentiation of C2C12 cells, stable transgene expression and long-term cell viability in vivo. Thus, these results show the promising potential of developing an ARSA delivery system to the CNS based on the use of a polymer-encapsulated transduced xenogenic cell line for gene therapy of MLD.
Adeno-associated viral gene transfer of transforming growth factor-beta1 to human mesenchymal stem cells improves cartilage repair.	Bone marrow cells are routinely accessed clinically for cartilage repair. This study was performed to determine whether adeno-associated virus (AAV) effectively transduces human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) in vitro, whether AAV infection interferes with hMSC chondrogenesis and whether AAV-transforming growth factor-beta-1 (TGF-beta1)-transduced hMSC can improve cartilage repair in vivo. Adult hMSC were transduced with AAV-green fluorescent protein (GFP) or AAV-transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF beta1) and studied in pellet cultures. For in vivo studies, AAV-GFP and AAV-TGF-beta1-transduced hMSCs were implanted into osteochondral defects of 21 athymic rats. GFP was detected using fluorescent microscopy. Cartilage repair was assessed using gross and histological analysis at 4, 8 and 12 weeks. In pellet culture, GFP expression was visualized in situ through 21 days in vitro. In vivo GFP transgene expression was observed by in situ fluorescent surface imaging in 100% of GFP implanted defects at 2 , 67% at 8 and 17% at 12 weeks. Improved cartilage repair was observed in osteochondral defects implanted with AAV-TGF-beta1-transduced hMSC at 12 weeks (P=0.0047). These results show that AAV is a suitable vector for gene delivery to improve the cartilage repair potential of human mesenchymal stem cells.
Fiber-knob modifications enhance adenoviral tropism and gene transfer in malignant glioma.	Malignant gliomas remain refractory to Ad5-mediated gene therapy due to deficiency of the coxsackie adenovirus receptor on tumor cells. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether changes in adenoviral tropism can enhance gene transfer in the context of malignant glioma.
FLT3/ITD expression increases expansion, survival and entry into cell cycle of human haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells.	Activating mutation of FLT3 by internal tandem duplications (ITDs) in the juxtamembrane region is the most common molecular aberration found in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). In this study, a lentiviral vector containing two promoters achieved consistent and efficient co-expression of FLT3/ITD and GFP in transduced human CD34(+) haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). When cultured in medium containing stem cell factor, thrombopoietin and FLT3 ligand (FL), FLT3/ITD-transduced cells demonstrated enhanced self-renewal and survival potential, unaffected by the withdrawal of FL. These cells retained a CD34(+)CD38(-/dim) immunophenotype, typical of HSPCs. Compared to cells transduced with a vector expressing GFP alone, FLT3/ITD-transduced HSPCs had a higher fraction of cells in active cell cycle. FLT3/ITD-transduced HSPCs were more sensitive to the induction of cytotoxicity by CEP-701, a selective FLT3 inhibitor, indicating a rapid 'addiction' to signalling through this oncogenic pathway. The FLT3/ITD-transduced HSPCs showed increased expression of Pim-1, c-Myc and Cyclin D3 (CCND3), each of which may contribute to the altered genetic programme instituted by FLT3/ITD signalling. Taken together, these results indicate that FLT3/ITD mutations may contribute to leukaemic transformation of normal HSPCs by prolonging survival, promoting proliferation and partially blocking differentiation. CEP-701 may act as a potent therapeutic agent for AML stem cells harbouring FLT3/ITD mutations.
A surface-modified baculovirus vector with improved gene delivery to B-lymphocytic cells.	A short peptide motif from gp350/220 of Epstein-Barr virus, EDPGFFNVEI, which was known to bind to CD21, a surface protein on B-lymphocyte, was inserted into the baculovirus surface protein gp64. The recombinant virus carrying the hybrid gp64/gp350 gene, vAc-gp350EGFP, was obtained, and the expression of gp64/gp350 protein was confirmed with immunoblot using anti-gp350 antibody. When compared with a control virus with wild type gp64, vAc-gp350EGFP showed increased transduction efficiency in B cell lines Raji, HR1, B95-8, BJAB, and DG75, regardless of their being EBV-positive or EBV-negative. No such increase was seen in non-B cell lines HEK293 and HeLa. When Raji cells were transduced with increased amount of vAc-gp350EGFP, transduction became saturated when the multiplicity of infection was higher than 20pfu/cell. The transduction of Raji cells by vAc-gp350EGFP was dose-dependently inhibited by pre-treatment of cells with anti-CD21 antibody. These results showed that vAc-gp350EGFP entered B cells by interacting with CD21.
Gene delivery to airway epithelial cells in vivo: a direct comparison of apical and basolateral transduction strategies using pseudotyped lentivirus vectors.	Lentivirus vectors are being investigated as gene delivery vehicles for cystic fibrosis airway gene therapy. Vesicular stomatitis virus G glycoprotein (VSV-G)-pseudotyped vectors transduce airway epithelia via receptors that are located predominantly on the basolateral surface of the airway epithelium. Effective transduction with VSV-G-pseudotyped vectors requires the use of a pre-treatment that disrupts epithelial tight junctions, allowing access to these basolateral receptors. In contrast, it has been reported that apically targeted lentiviral vectors allow efficient gene transfer in the absence of any pre-treatment. In a direct comparison of transduction by a VSV-G-pseudotyped vector, in combination with a pre-treatment with lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), and the same vector pseudotyped with the apically targeted baculovirus GP64 envelope (without any pre-treatment), the GP64 vector was found to be significantly less efficient. However, when a pre-treatment with LPC was used the level of transduction with the GP64-pseudotyped lentiviral vector was not significantly different to that resulting from the VSV-G-pseudotyped vector. The cell types transduced with each vector were essentially the same, with the majority of cells transduced being respiratory (ciliated cells). However, unlike the VSV-G-pseudotyped vector, which results in persisting gene expression, transduction with the GP64-pseudotyped vector resulted in gene expression that declined to undetectable levels over six months, whether or not an LPC pre-treatment was used.
Impact on oxidative phosphorylation of immortalization with the telomerase gene.	Skin fibroblasts are essential tools for biochemical, genetic and physiopathological investigations of mitochondrial diseases. Their immortalization has been previously performed to overcome the limited number of divisions of these primary cells but it has never been systematically evaluated with respect to efficacy and impact on the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) characteristics of the cells. We successfully immortalized with the human telomerase gene 15 human fibroblasts populations, 4 derived from controls and 11 from patients with diverse respiratory chain defects. Immortalization induced significant but mild modification of the OXPHOS characteristics of the cells with lower rates of oxygen consumption and ATP synthesis associated with their loose coupling. However, it never significantly altered the type and severity of any genetic OXPHOS defect present prior to immortalization. Furthermore, it did not significantly modify the cells' dependence on glucose and sensitivity to galactose thus showing that immortalized cells could be screened by their nutritional requirement. Immortalized skin fibroblasts with significant OXPHOS defect provide reliable tools for the diagnosis and research of the genetic cause of mitochondrial defects. They also represent precious material to investigate the cellular responses to these defects, even though these should afterwards be verified in unmodified primary cells.
Recombinant adeno-associated virus vector for gene transfer to the transplanted rat heart.	Efficient durable viral vector transduction of the transplanted heart remains elusive. This study assesses the potential of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) mediated gene delivery to the transplanted rat heart. rAAV serotype 1, 2 and 5 vectors encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene (1 x 10(11) viral particles/ml) were diluted in cold University of Wisconsin solution and circulated through the coronary vasculature of the donor organs for 30 min before syngeneic rat heterotopic heart transplantation was performed. Study 1: animals (n = 5 each serotype) were killed at 21 days post-transplant to evaluate the efficiency of GFP transduction using RT-PCR and expression by fluorescence microscopy. Study 2: using rAAV-1, animals (n = 5 each group) were killed at 7, 21 and 84 days to evaluate the durability of GFP expression. The maximum cardiac GFP expression at 21 days was observed in rAAV-1. GFP expression by rAAV-1 was detectable at 7 days, improved at 21 days, and was still evident at 84 days. This study demonstrates cardiac rAAV gene transduction with a cold perfusion preservation system of the donor heart. These data show that AAV-1 is superior to AAV-2 and AAV-5 for this purpose and that durable expression is achievable.
Viral vector-induced amygdala NPY overexpression reverses increased alcohol intake caused by repeated deprivations in Wistar rats.	Acute administration of neuropeptide Y (NPY) modulates alcohol intake in genetic and chemical models of high intake, while leaving intake unaffected during 'normal' or baseline conditions. In non-selected, normal rat lines, alcohol consumption can be increased by prolonged exposure to alcohol, and it is unclear what effect a constitutive increase in NPY function will have on alcohol intake. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects on alcohol intake of an inducible, constitutive overexpression of NPY, one of the most abundant neuropeptides in the central nervous system. A liquid diet was used in combination with repeated alcohol deprivation sessions to increase alcohol intake in normal Wistar rats. We then examined the effect of NPY overexpression in the amygdala on excessive alcohol intake produced by prolonged exposure to alcohol and alcohol deprivation. Repeated withdrawal increased alcohol consumption in a 24-h continuous access two-bottle choice model. Both the number of withdrawals as well as the length of the withdrawal periods affected alcohol consumption with an increased intake resulting from multiple withdrawals and the alcohol deprivation effect being enhanced by longer periods of abstinence. The increase in intake following repeated abstinence was blunted by intra-amygdala administration of a Sindbis viral vector containing NPY cDNA. Amygdala NPY overexpression also was demonstrated to be anxiolytic in the open field test. Repeated withdrawal in combination with a history of alcohol consumption significantly elevated alcohol intake, and the amygdala may mediate the transition to high-drinking states in this model.
Rapid generation of knockdown transgenic mice by silencing lentiviral vectors.	Lentiviral vectors are potent gene delivery vehicles that enable stable expression of transgenes in both dividing and postmitotic cells, including preimplantation embryos. We have developed lentiviral vectors carrying silencing cassettes consisting of an RNA polymerase III promoter expressing short hairpin RNAs. Transgenic mice can be generated rapidly by transduction of early embryos with lentiviral silencing vectors, resulting in mice with downregulated target genes. We describe two alternative early embryo transduction protocols (removal of zona pellucida and subzonal microinjection). These methodologies offer the possibility of large-scale generation of knockdown transgenic mice for functional genomic studies and enable the production of transgenic mice in 7 weeks.
Adenoviral serotypes in gene therapy for esophageal carcinoma.	Adenoviral gene therapy could potentially play a role in the treatment of esophageal cancer and Barrett's esophagus. The adenoviruses can be categorized in different serotypes. The goal of the present study was to investigate the transduction efficacy of different adenoviral serotypes in different models of esophageal cancer and Barrett's esophagus.
Improved short-term engraftment of lentivirally versus gammaretrovirally transduced allogeneic canine repopulating cells.	Gammaretroviral vectors require cell division for efficient transduction. Thus, extended cell culture times are necessary for efficient transduction with gammaretroviral vectors, which in turn can lead to stem cell loss and impaired engraftment. Lentiviral vectors transduce nondividing cells and are therefore able to transduce stem cells in short transduction protocols. Here, we compared the short-term engraftment of lentivirally and gammaretrovirally transduced canine allogeneic DLA-matched littermate cells. A reduced conditioning regimen of 400 cGy total body irradiation was used in preparation for clinical studies. Two dogs received a graft of gammaretrovirally transduced CD34-selected cells. CD34(+) cells were prestimulated for 30 h and then exposed twice to concentrated RD114 pseudotype vector. Three dogs received lentivirally transduced CD34-selected cells. Cells were transduced overnight with concentrated VSV-G pseudotype lentiviral vector. The animals in the lentiviral group showed a significantly faster granulocyte recovery. VNTR analysis 40-50 days after transplantation revealed higher donor chimerism for the lentiviral group compared to the retroviral group. These data suggest that short lentiviral transduction protocols may be superior to extended gammaretroviral transduction protocols with respect to engraftment potential of transduced CD34(+) hematopoietic repopulating cells.
Transduction of anti-cell death protein FNK protects isolated rat hearts from myocardial infarction induced by ischemia/reperfusion.	Artificial anti-cell death protein FNK, a Bcl-x(L) derivative with three amino acid-substitutions (Y22F, Q26N, and R165K) has enhanced anti-apoptotic and anti-necrotic activity and facilitates cell survival in many species and cell types. The objectives of this study were (i) to investigate whether the protein conjugated with a protein transduction domain (PTD-FNK) reduces myocardial infarct size and improves post-ischemic cardiac function in ischemic/reperfused rat hearts, and (ii) to understand the mechanism(s) by which PTD-FNK exerts a protective effect. Isolated rat hearts were subjected to 35-min global ischemia, followed by 120-min reperfusion using the Langendorff methods. PTD-FNK (a total of 30 microl) was injected intramuscularly into the anterior wall of the left ventricle either at 1 min after induction of global ischemia (group A) or at 30 min after induction of global ischemia (at 5 min before reperfusion) (group B). In group A, infarct size was significantly reduced from 47.8+/-6.8% in the control to 30.4+/-5.2, 28.7+/-3.8, and 30.4+/-6.8% with PTD-FNK at 5, 50, and 500 nmol/l, respectively (p<0.05). Temporal recovery of left ventricular developed pressure at 60 min and 120 min after reperfusion was significantly better in PTD-FNK (50 and 500 nmol/l)-treated groups than in the control (p<0.05). In contrast, PTD-FNK treatment had no effect on group B. Western blot analysis showed that PTD-FNK markedly inhibited procaspase-3 cleavage (activation of caspase-3) and reduced the number of nuclei stained by a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine 5-triphoshate nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay. These findings suggest that PTD-FNK reduces the volume of myocardial infarction with corresponding functional recovery, at least in part, through the suppression of myocardial apoptosis following ischemia/reperfusion.
A mosaic fiber adenovirus serotype 5 vector containing reovirus sigma 1 and adenovirus serotype 3 knob fibers increases transduction in an ovarian cancer ex vivo system via a coxsackie and adenovirus receptor-independent pathway.	Adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) has been used for gene therapy with limited success due to insufficient infectivity in cells with low expression of the primary receptor, the coxsackie and adenovirus receptor (CAR). Evidence that adenovirus serotype receptors other than CAR may be of use was presented in previous studies that showed that the Ad3 receptor is expressed at high levels in ovarian cancer cells. We hypothesized that combined use of unique chimeric fibers in the context of novel mosaic adenovirus vectors would enhance infectivity via non-CAR pathways in ovarian cancer cells.
Diffusional trapping of GluR1 AMPA receptors by input-specific synaptic activity.	Synaptic activity regulates the postsynaptic accumulation of AMPA receptors over timescales ranging from minutes to days. Indeed, the regulated trafficking and mobility of GluR1 AMPA receptors underlies many forms of synaptic potentiation at glutamatergic synapses throughout the brain. However, the basis for synapse-specific accumulation of GluR1 is unknown. Here we report that synaptic activity locally immobilizes GluR1 AMPA receptors at individual synapses. Using single-molecule tracking together with the silencing of individual presynaptic boutons, we demonstrate that local synaptic activity reduces diffusional exchange of GluR1 between synaptic and extraynaptic domains, resulting in postsynaptic accumulation of GluR1. At neighboring inactive synapses, GluR1 is highly mobile with individual receptors frequently escaping the synapse. Within the synapse, spontaneous activity confines the diffusional movement of GluR1 to restricted subregions of the postsynaptic membrane. Thus, local activity restricts GluR1 mobility on a submicron scale, defining an input-specific mechanism for regulating AMPA receptor composition and abundance.
Cloning and expression of Bacillus phytase gene (phy) in Escherichia coli and recovery of active enzyme from the inclusion bodies.	To isolate, clone and express a novel phytase gene (phy) from Bacillus sp. in Escherichia coli; to recover the active enzyme from inclusion bodies; and to characterize the recombinant phytase.
Visualization of targeted transduction by engineered lentiviral vectors.	We have reported a method to target lentiviral vectors to specific cell types. This method requires the incorporation of two distinct molecules on the viral vector surface: one is an antibody that renders the targeting specificity for the engineered vector, and the other is a fusogenic protein that allows the engineered vector to enter the target cell. However, the molecular mechanism that controls the targeted infection needs to be defined. In this report, we tracked the individual lentiviral particles by labeling the virus with the GFP-Vpr fusion protein. We were able to visualize the surface-displayed proteins on a single virion as well as antibody-directed targeting to a desired cell type. We also demonstrated the dynamics of virus fusion with endosomes and monitored endosome-associated transport of viruses in target cells. Our results suggest that the fusion between the engineered lentivirus and endosomes takes place at the early endosome level, and that the release of the viral core into the cytosol at the completion of the virus-endosome fusion is correlated with the endosome maturation process. This imaging study sheds some light on the infection mechanism of the engineered lentivirus and can be beneficial to the design of more efficient gene delivery vectors.
Targeted delivery of a suicide gene to human colorectal tumors by a conditionally replicating vaccinia virus.	We have generated a thymidine kinase gene-deleted vaccinia virus (VV) (Copenhagen strain) that expressed the fusion suicide gene FCU1 derived from the yeast cytosine deaminase and uracil phosphoribosyltransferase genes. Intratumoral inoculation of this thymidine kinase gene-deleted VV encoding FCU1 (VV-FCU1) in the presence of systemically administered prodrug 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) produced statistically significant reductions in the growth of subcutaneous human colon cancer in nude mice compared with thymidine kinase gene-deleted VV treatments or with control 5-fluorouracil alone. A limitation of prodrug therapies has often been the requirement for the direct injection of the virus into relatively large, accessible tumors. Here we demonstrate vector targeting of tumors growing subcutaneously following systemic administration of VV-FCU1. More importantly we also demonstrate that the systemic injection of VV-FCU1 in nude mice bearing orthotopic liver metastasis of a human colon cancer, with concomitant administration of 5-FC, leads to substantial tumor growth retardation. In conclusion, the insertion of the fusion FCU1 suicide gene potentiates the oncolytic efficiency of the thymidine kinase gene-deleted VV and represents a potentially efficient means for gene therapy of distant metastasis from colon and other cancers.
Immunogenicity and safety profiles of genetic vaccines against human Her-2/neu in cynomolgus monkeys.	Her-2/neu is a well-characterized tumor-associated antigen, the overexpression of which in human carcinomas correlates with a poor prognosis. Here, we evaluated Her-2/neu-specific humoral and cellular immune responses in immunized monkeys after immunization with nonreplicating adenovirus (AdHM) expressing the extracellular and transmembrane domain of human Her-2/neu (HM) and/or naked DNA vaccine (pHM-hGM-CSF) expressing human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor together with HM. Priming of monkeys with AdHM generated Her-2/neu-specific long-lasting antibody production. Furthermore, these Her-2/neu-specific antibodies produced by AdHM immunization, some of which shared epitope specificity with Herceptin, were able to induce antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against Her-2-expressing target cells. Cellular immune responses were elicited in all monkeys immunized with Her-2/neu-expressing vaccine; interferon-gamma was secreted when these splenocytes were restimulated with Her-2/neu-expressing autologous cells, and immunization with AdHM induced Her-2/neu-specific lymphoproliferative responses. Further, immunization with pHM-hGM-CSF before AdHM immunization noticeably enhanced cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activity. In addition, we observed no abnormalities that would indicate that the genetic vaccines had toxic effects in the immunized monkeys. Thus, we can conclude that our genetic vaccines efficiently elicited Her-2/neu-specific humoral and cellular immune responses without causing severe adverse effects in nonhuman primates and that as such they warrant further clinical investigation.
Is lack of susceptible recipients in the intestinal environment the limiting factor for transduction of Shiga toxin-encoding phages?	To determine whether a Shiga toxin 2 (Stx2)-encoding phage from Escherichia coli O157:H7 could be transmitted to commensal E. coli in a ruminant host without adding a specific recipient strain.
Development of recombinant adeno-associated virus and adenovirus cocktail system for efficient hTERTC27 polypeptide-mediated cancer gene therapy.	The low in vivo transduction efficiency of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) and the undesirably strong immunogenicity of adenovirus (rAdv) have limited their clinical utilization in cancer gene therapy. We have previously demonstrated that intratumoral injection of rAAV expressing a C-terminal polypeptide of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (rAAV-hTERTC27) effectively inhibits the growth of glioblastoma xenografts in nude mice. To further improve its efficacy, we combined rAAV-hTERTC27 with rAdv and investigated the efficiency of the cocktail vectors in vivo. At a nontherapeutic dose (1 x 10(8) plaque-forming units (PFUs)), rAdv-null and rAdv-hTERTC27 were equipotent in enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of rAAV-hTERTC27 (1.5 x 10(11) v.g.), and complete tumor regression was achieved in 25% of the treated animals. Importantly, the combination of rAAV-hTERTC27 and a therapeutic dose (2.5 x 10(9) PFU) of rAdv-hTERTC27 significantly augmented the therapeutic effects and led to a 38% complete tumor regression rate. In vivo optical imaging also showed that rAAV-luc/rAdv-luc cocktail vectors could synergistically enhance the early transient and latent sustained expression of luciferase, as compared to rAdv-luc and rAAV-luc alone. These findings suggest that the combination of rAAV-hTERTC27 and a therapeutic dose of rAdv-hTERTC27 is potentially a promising treatment for glioblastoma, and the rAAV/rAdv cocktail vector system warrants further development for cancer gene therapy.
Enhanced delivery efficiency of recombinant adenovirus into tumor and mesenchymal stem cells by a novel PTD.	Protein transduction domains (PTDs) are small peptides that facilitate the transduction of large molecules such as polyproteins, DNA and viruses into a eukaryotic cell. Here, we demonstrated that a novel PTD (HP4) derived from herring protamine appeared to enter C6Bu1 rat glioma cell lines more rapidly than other known PTDs such as Tat, Antp and Hph-1. Moreover, HP4 significantly enhanced in vitro transduction of recombinant adenoviruses (rAds) into various cancer cell lines, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and dendritic cells, which are relatively resistant to rAd infection. Enhancement of rAd delivery into C6Bu1 and MSCs by HP4 is 20 and 7 times higher than that by Tat, respectively. The increase in the expression of rAd encoding IL-12N220L by HP4 is proportional to its antitumor effect in the ex vivo transduced mouse colon cancer model. Thus, these results suggest that HP4 could be utilized to improve the transduction efficiency of rAd, resulting in enhanced efficacy of rAd-mediated gene therapy, especially for ex vivo-transduced cell therapy.
Modification of adenovirus type 5 tropism for a preferential transduction of human papillomavirus-positive cancer cells.	Human group C adenoviruses can infect many cell types, and this is due to the widespread expression of their receptor, the coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor (CAR). Adenovirus vectors for cancer gene therapy could be significantly improved if their tropism were restricted to tumor cells. In this work, previously identified peptides that target human papillomaviruses (HPV)-transformed cells were inserted into the HI loop of a non-CAR-binding fiber. These modified fiber proteins were able to assemble into adenovirus particles. We demonstrated that these modifications ablated the native tropism of adenovirus type 5, and these modified adenoviruses were shown to preferentially transduce HPV-transformed cell lines.
Quantitative analysis of retroviral and lentiviral gene transfer to murine embryonic stem cells.	The effectiveness of retrovirus or lentivirus transduction of embryonic stem (ES) cells is often limited because transgene expression is silenced or variegated. We wondered if other steps of transduction, in addition to gene expression, were restricted in ES cells. We quantitatively compared (1) the amount of virus binding, (2) the number of integrated transgenes, and (3) the resulting level of gene expression. We found that three- to fourfold fewer retroviruses and lentiviruses bound to R1 mES cells than to NIH 3T3 cells, suggesting that both types of viruses bind less efficiently to mES cells. Retroviruses and lentiviruses differed in the efficiency with which they completed post-binding steps of transduction. In R1 mES cells, we detected 3-fold fewer integrated retrovirus transgenes and 11-fold lower expression levels than in NIH 3T3 cells, which suggests that the primary limitation to retrovirus transduction may be low levels of transgene expression. In contrast, we detected 10-fold fewer integrated lentivirus transgenes and 8-fold lower expression levels in R1 mES cells than in NIH 3T3 cells, which suggests that lentivirus transduction may be limited by inefficient intracellular post-binding steps of transduction. The implications of our findings for developing improved viral vectors for transducing mES cells are discussed.
Lentivirus vector can be readministered to nasal epithelia without blocking immune responses.	For many envisioned applications of lentivirus vectors as tools in respiratory biology and therapeutic gene delivery, the efficiency of gene transfer must be improved. We previously demonstrated stable, persistent (>11 months) in vivo expression following a single application of a feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)-based lentivirus vector (GP64-FIV) to murine nasal epithelia. Here we investigate the efficacy of repeated administration of lentivirus vectors to the airways. Using quantitative bioluminescent imaging, we found that consecutive daily dosing achieved a linear increase in gene expression and greatly increased the number of epithelial cells targeted. Surprisingly, reporter gene expression also increased additively following each of seven doses of FIV delivered over consecutive weeks (1 dose/week), without the development of systemic or local neutralizing antibodies. This approach enhanced expression of both reporter and therapeutic transgenes. Transduction efficiency achieved following a single dose of FIV expressing mouse erythropoietin was insufficient to increase hematocrit, whereas seven consecutive daily doses significantly increased hematocrit. These unexpected results contrast strikingly with findings reported for adenovirus vectors. Prolonged gene expression has been observed in vivo following a single dose of virus vector; however, depending on the application, repeated administration of vector may be necessary to achieve stable, therapeutic gene expression.
Reversibly immortalized human olfactory ensheathing glia from an elderly donor maintain neuroregenerative capacity.	A continuous normal function of olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) is to promote axonal regeneration from the olfactory neuroepithelium to the brain, and their neuroregenerative potential in other CNS sites such as the injured spinal cord has been studied for over a decade. However, human OEG are difficult to obtain in large amounts directly from tissues, and the derived primary cultures have a limited duplication capacity. Thus, although auto-transplantation may be an obvious option for initial proof-of-concept trials, alternatives must be explored to obtain large quantities of homogeneous, pre-characterized OEG for wide-scale therapeutic use. We have cultured primary human OEG derived from olfactory bulbs (OB) obtained by necropsy and successfully extended the replicative lifespan of these cells using lentivectors encoding Bmi-1 and TERT transgenes flanked by loxP sites. In contrast to the primary cells which could only be expanded for a limited number of passages (approximately 12), adult human OEG immortalized Bmi-1/TERT divided indefinitely in culture. Clonal lines were isolated and the floxed transgenes could be excised by lentivector-mediated Cre recombinase delivery. Primary, immortalized, and deimmortalized human OEG all expressed typical markers of this cell type and importantly, were all able to promote axonal regeneration of adult rat retinal ganglion neurons (RGN) in co-culture assays.
Induced secretion of beta-hexosaminidase by human brain endothelial cells: a novel approach in Sandhoff disease?	Sandhoff disease is an autosomal recessive lysosomal disorder due to mutations in the beta-hexosaminidase beta-chain gene, resulting in beta-hexosaminidases A (alphabeta) and B (betabeta) deficiency and GM2 ganglioside accumulation in the brain. In this study, our aim was to demonstrate that transduction of cerebral endothelial cells cultured in two-chamber culture inserts with a lentiviral vector encoding the hexosaminidases alpha and beta chains could induce a vectorial secretion of hexosaminidases. Therefore, the human cerebral endothelial cell line hCMEC/D3 was infected with the bicistronic vector from the apical compartment, and beta-hexosaminidase activity was measured in transduced cells and in deficient fibroblasts co-cultured in the basal (i.e. brain) compartment. Induced beta-hexosaminidase secretion by transduced hCMEC/D3 cells was sufficient to allow for a 70-90% restoration of beta-hexosaminidase activity in deficient fibroblasts. On the basis of these in vitro data, we propose that brain endothelium be considered as a novel therapeutic target in Sandhoff disease.
Adeno-associated viral vector serotypes 1 and 5 targeted to the neonatal rat and pig striatum induce widespread transgene expression in the forebrain.	Viral vector-mediated gene transfer has emerged as a powerful means to target transgene expression in the central nervous system. Here we characterized the efficacy of serotypes 1 and 5 recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) after stereotaxic delivery to the neonatal rat and minipig striatum. The efficiency of GFP expression and the phenotype of GFP-positive cells were assessed within the forebrain at different time points up to 12 months after surgery. Both rAAV1-GFP and rAAV5-GFP delivery resulted in transduction of the striatum as well as striatal input and output areas, including large parts of the cortex. In both species, rAAV5 resulted in a more widespread transgene expression compared to rAAV1. In neonatal rats, rAAV5 also transduced several other areas such as the olfactory bulbs, hippocampus, and septum. Phenotypic analysis of the GFP-positive cells, performed using immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy, showed that most of the GFP-positive cells by either serotype were NeuN-positive neuronal profiles. The rAAV5 vector further displayed the ability to transduce non-neuronal cell types in both rats and pigs, albeit at a low frequency. Our results show that striatal delivery of rAAV5 vectors in the neonatal brain represents a useful tool to express genes of interest both in the basal ganglia and the neocortex. Furthermore, we apply, for the first time, viral vector-mediated gene transfer to the pig brain providing the opportunity to study effects of genetic manipulation in this non-primate large animal species. Finally, we generated an atlas of the Gttingen minipig brain for guiding future studies in this large animal species.
Novel positive allosteric modulators of GABAA receptors: do subtle differences in activity at alpha1 plus alpha5 versus alpha2 plus alpha3 subunits account for dissimilarities in behavioral effects in rats?	Over the last years, genetic studies have greatly improved our knowledge on the receptor subtypes mediating various pharmacological effects of positive allosteric modulators at GABA(A) receptors. This stimulated the development of new benzodiazepine (BZ)-like ligands, especially those inactive/low-active at GABA(A) receptors containing the alpha(1) subunit, with the aim of generating more selective drugs. Hereby, the affinity and efficacy of four recently synthesized BZ site ligands: SH-053-2'N, SH-053-S-CH3-2'F, SH-053-R-CH3-2'F and JY-XHe-053 were assessed. They were also studied in behavioral tests of spontaneous locomotor activity, elevated plus maze, and water maze in rats, which are considered predictive of, respectively, the sedative, anxiolytic, and amnesic influence of BZs. The novel ligands had moderately low to low affinity and mild to partial agonistic efficacy at GABA(A) receptors containing the alpha(1) subunit, with variable, but more pronounced efficacy at other BZ-sensitive binding sites. While presumably alpha(1) receptor-mediated sedative effects of GABA(A) modulation were not fully eliminated with any of the ligands tested, only SH-053-2'N and SH-053-S-CH3-2'F, both dosed at 30 mg/kg, exerted anxiolytic effects. The lack of clear anxiolytic-like activity of JY-XHe-053, despite its efficacy at alpha(2)- and alpha(3)-GABA(A) receptors, may have been partly connected with its preferential affinity at alpha(5)-GABA(A) receptors coupled with weak agonist activity at alpha(1)-containing subtypes. The memory impairment in water-maze experiments, generally reported with BZ site agonists, was completely circumvented with all four ligands. The results suggest that a substantial amount of activity at alpha(1) GABA(A) receptors is needed for affecting spatial learning and memory impairments, while much weaker activity at alpha(1)- and alpha(5)-GABA(A) receptors is sufficient for eliciting sedation.
Arginine-rich intracellular delivery peptides synchronously deliver covalently and noncovalently linked proteins into plant cells.	Protein transduction domains (PTDs) are small peptides with a high content of basic amino acids, and they are responsible for cellular uptake. Many PTDs, including arginine-rich intracellular delivery (AID) peptides, have been shown to transport macromolecules across membranes and into cells. In this study, we demonstrated for the first time that AID peptides could rapidly and efficiently deliver proteins into plant cells in both covalent and noncovalent protein transductions (CNPT) simultaneously. The optimal molecular ratio between an AID peptide carrier and cargo in CNPT was about 3:1. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis revealed protein-protein interactions between AID peptide carriers and cargos after CNPT in cells. The possible mechanisms of AID peptides-mediated cellular entry might involve a combination of multiple internalization pathways. Therefore, applications by AID peptide-mediated CNPT may provide a simple and direct transport strategy for delivering two proteins in agricultural systems.
Combination of adenovirus and cross-linked low molecular weight PEI improves efficiency of gene transduction.	Recombinant adenovirus (Ad)-mediated gene therapy is an exciting novel strategy in cancer treatment. However, poor infection efficiency with coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor (CAR) down-regulated cancer cell lines is one of the major challenges for its practical and extensive application. As an alternative method of viral gene delivery, a non-viral carrier using cationic materials could compensate for the limitation of adenovirus. In our study, adenovectors were complexed with a new synthetic polymer PEI-DEG-bis-NPC (PDN) based on polyethylenimine (PEI), and then the properties of the vehicle were characterized by measurement of size distribution, zeta potential and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Enhancement of gene transduction by Ad/PDN complexes was observed in both CAR-overexpressing cell lines (A549) and CAR-lacking cell lines (MDCK, CHO, LLC), as a result of facilitating binding and cell uptake of adenoviral particles by the cationic component. Ad/PDN complexes also promoted the inhibition of tumor growth in vivo and prolonged the survival time of tumor-bearing mice. These data suggest that a combination of viral and non-viral gene delivery methods may offer a new approach to successful cancer gene therapy.
E3 ligase Nedd4 promotes axon branching by downregulating PTEN.	Regulated protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) plays a central role in building synaptic connections, yet little is known about either which specific UPS components are involved or UPS targets in neurons. We report that inhibiting the UPS in developing Xenopus retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with a dominant-negative ubiquitin mutant decreases terminal branching in the tectum but does not affect long-range navigation to the tectum. We identify Nedd4 as a prominently expressed E3 ligase in RGC axon growth cones and show that disrupting its function severely inhibits terminal branching. We further demonstrate that PTEN, a negative regulator of the PI3K pathway, is a key downstream target of Nedd4: not only does Nedd4 regulate PTEN levels in RGC growth cones, but also, the decrease of PTEN rescues the branching defect caused by Nedd4 inhibition. Together our data suggest that Nedd4-regulated PTEN is a key regulator of terminal arborization in vivo.
Overexpression of serum response factor restores ocular dominance plasticity in a model of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.	Neuronal plasticity deficits underlie many of the neurobehavioral problems seen in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). Recently, we showed that third trimester alcohol exposure leads to a persistent disruption in ocular dominance (OD) plasticity. For instance, a few days of monocular deprivation results in a robust reduction of cortical regions responsive to the deprived eye in normal animals, but not in ferrets exposed early to alcohol. This plasticity deficit can be reversed if alcohol-exposed animals are treated with a phosphodiesterase type 1 (PDE1) inhibitor during the period of monocular deprivation. PDE1 inhibition can increase cAMP and cGMP levels, activating transcription factors such as the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the serum response factor (SRF). SRF is important for many plasticity processes such as LTP, LTD, spine motility, and axonal pathfinding. Here we attempt to rescue OD plasticity in alcohol-treated ferrets using a Sindbis viral vector to express a constitutively active form of SRF during the period of monocular deprivation. Using optical imaging of intrinsic signals and single-unit recordings, we observed that overexpression of a constitutively active form of SRF, but neither its dominant-negative nor GFP, restored OD plasticity in alcohol-treated animals. Surprisingly, this restoration was observed throughout the extent of the primary visual cortex and most cells infected by the virus were positive for GFAP rather than NeuN. This finding suggests that overexpression of SRF in astrocytes may reduce the deficits in neuronal plasticity seen in models of FASD.
Acute in vivo genetic rescue demonstrates that phosphorylation of RIM1alpha serine 413 is not required for mossy fiber long-term potentiation.	While presynaptic, protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent, long-term plasticity has been described in numerous brain regions, the target(s) of PKA and the molecular mechanisms leading to sustained changes in neurotransmitter release remain elusive. Here, we acutely reconstitute mossy fiber long-term potentiation (mfLTP) de novo in the mature brains of mutant mice that normally lack this form of plasticity. These results demonstrate that RIM1alpha, a presynaptic scaffold protein and a potential PKA target, can support mfLTP independent of a role in brain development. Using this approach, we study two mutations of RIM1alpha (S413A and V415P) and conclude that PKA-phosphorylation-dependent signaling by RIM1alpha serine 413 is not required for mfLTP, consistent with conclusions reached from the study of RIM1alpha S413A knockin mice. Together, these results provide insights into the mechanism of mossy fiber LTP and demonstrate a useful acute approach to genetically manipulate mossy fiber synapses in the mature brain.
Gene essentiality testing in mycobacterium smegmatis using specialized transduction.	Conditional expression-specialized transduction essentiality test (CESTET) is a genetic tool used to determine essentiality of individual genes in Mycobacterium smegmatis. CESTET combines specialized transduction, a highly efficient gene knockout method, with the utility of the inducible acetamidase promoter. In a merodiploid strain containing a second integrated copy of an essential gene under the control of the acetamidase promoter, transductants (gene knockouts of the native chromosomal copy of a gene) are obtained only in the presence of acetamide in the selection medium. Furthermore, effects of loss of essential gene function can then be studied by growing the transductants in medium depleted of acetamide.
The effect of lentivirus-mediated TH and GDNF genetic engineering mesenchymal stem cells on Parkinson's disease rat model.	This study was designed to assess the potential therapeutic efficacy of gene-modified mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), MSCs-TH and MSCs-GDNF, in PD rats. Fifty-nine PD rat models were divided into five groups and then the gene-modified MSCs were transplanted into the striatum of rats according to the design. Apomorphine-induced rotational behavior in rats was observed weekly; rats which received both MSCs-TH and MSCs-GDNF showed the most significant improvement compared with those in other groups (P < 0.01). Three weeks later, immunohistochemistry analysis found TH-positive cells and GDNF-positive cells in striatal. Eight weeks later, PD rats were killed. HPLC and ELISA results showed DA and GDNF content in striatum of rats which received both MSCs-TH, and MSCs-GDNF was considerably higher compared with those of other groups (P < 0.01),respectively. In conclusion, our results suggest that combined transplantation of MSCs expressing TH and GDNF can lead to remarkable therapeutic effects in a rat model of PD.
Gene therapy in ophthalmology: validation on cultured retinal cells and explants from postmortem human eyes.	Gene therapy studies in primates can provide important information regarding vector tropism, specific cellular expression, biodistribution, and safety prior to clinical trials. In this study, we report the assessment of transduction efficiency of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors using human postmortem retina. Transductions were performed using two in vitro models prepared from human tissue: dissociated cell cultures and retinal explants. These models were used to assess cellular tropism and selectivity of rAAV vectors encoding for fluorescent proteins under the control of different promoters. These promoters were a ubiquitous cytomegalovirus promoter and a cell type-specific promoter targeting expression in ON bipolar cells. The results demonstrate that this in vitro approach can limit the use of living primates for the validation of gene therapy in vision and ophthalmology.
A simple method to increase the transduction efficiency of single-stranded adeno-associated virus vectors in vitro and in vivo.	We have recently shown that co-administration of conventional single-stranded adeno-associated virus 2 (ssAAV2) vectors with self-complementary (sc) AAV2-protein phosphatase 5 (PP5) vectors leads to a significant increase in the transduction efficiency of ssAAV2 vectors in human cells in vitro as well as in murine hepatocytes in vivo. In the present study, this strategy has been further optimized by generating a mixed population of ssAAV2-EGFP and scAAV2-PP5 vectors at a 10:1 ratio to achieve enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgene expression at approximately 5- to 10-fold higher efficiency, both in vitro and in vivo. This simple coproduction method should be adaptable to any ssAAV serotype vector containing transgene cassettes that are too large to be encapsidated in scAAV vectors.
Mycophenolate mofetil impairs transduction of single-stranded adeno-associated viral vectors.	Adeno-associated virus (AAV) liver-directed gene therapy seems a feasible treatment for Crigler-Najjar syndrome type I, an inherited liver disorder characterized by severe unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. Transient immunosuppression coupled with vector administration seems needed to overcome host immune responses that prevent long-term expression in patients. The immunosuppressive mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), which inhibits de novo synthesis of purines, is a promising candidate. To investigate the potential use of MMF in patients with Crigler-Najjar syndrome, we studied its effect on single-stranded AAV (ssAAV)-mediated correction of hyperbilirubinemia in the relevant preclinical model, the Gunn rat. Although MMF was well tolerated and effective it also impaired the efficacy of ssAAV. Subsequent in vitro studies showed that this effect is not specific for UGT1A deficiency. In fact, clinical relevant concentrations of mycophenolic acid (MPA), the active compound of MMF, also impair the transduction of HEK-293T cells by ssAAV. Because this effect was reversed by guanosine addition, it seems that intracellular levels of this nucleotide become limited, suggesting that MPA impairs second-strand DNA synthesis. This is corroborated by observations that MPA did not impair transduction of 293T cells by a self-complementary AAV (scAAV) vector and that MMF did not reduce the scAAV efficacy in the Gunn rat. In conclusion, MMF impairs ssAAV-mediated liver-directed gene therapy, which is relevant for the use of this immunosuppressive agent with single-stranded vectors. Furthermore, because this effect is due to impaired second-strand synthesis, the use of MMF with scAAV seems warranted.
Efficient preparation of cationized gelatin for gene transduction.	We previously reported gene therapy using cationized gelatin microspheres of 20-32 m, prepared from pig skin, as a transducing agent, but although the gelatin offered various advantages, its yield was extremely low (only 0.1%). In this study, we markedly improved the yield of 20-32 m cationized gelatin microspheres and prepared a newly less than 20 m cationized gelatin. Conventionally, cationized gelatin is prepared by cationization, particulation by agitation, and cross-linking. The yield is determined by the particulation step, for which we had used a three-necked distillation flask of 500 mL and an agitation speed of 420 rpm. The yield was significantly increased from 0.13  0.02% to 8.80  1.90% by using a smaller flask of 300 mL and an agitation speed of 25000 rpm (p  0.01). We could also prepare cationized gelatin of less than 20 m, which had not been possible previously. We confirmed that efficient gene introduction into peritoneal macrophages could be achieved with the new cationized gelatin.
Efficient gene delivery into fish cells by an improved recombinant baculovirus.	Studies on transduction of mammalian cells have shown that baculovirus can be used as an effective vector for gene delivery. However, previous studies have found the gene delivery efficiency to be very low in differentiated fish cells. In this study, an improved recombinant baculovirus, containing cytomegalovirus immediate-early (CMV-IE) promoter and an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene as the reporter gene, was constructed. The transduction efficiency of recombinant baculovirus in several fish cell lines was measured by flow cytometry (FCM) and the persistence of EGFP was monitored by fluorescence microscopy. The results demonstrated that baculovirus can mediate the high efficiency of gene delivery into differentiated fish cells. Furthermore, it was found that growth medium is superior to PBS as the surrounding solution to enhance the transduction efficiency in some fish cells. In addition, transgene expression can persist for a lengthy period in fish cells, and attained highest level several days later after transduction. This study suggest that the improved recombinant baculovirus can be an excellent gene delivery vector for fish cells and also providing new insights into the transduction of vertebrate cells with baculovirus.
Comparison of the efficacy of four viral vectors for transducing hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons in the rat supraoptic nucleus.	Since transgenes were first cloned into recombinant adenoviruses almost 30 years ago, a variety of viral vectors have become important tools in genetic research. Viruses adeptly transport genetic material into eukaryotic cells, and replacing all or part of the viral genome with genes of interest or silencing sequences creates a method of gene expression modulation in which the timing and location of manipulations can be specific. The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS), consisting of the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei in the hypothalamus, regulates fluid balance homeostasis and is highly plastic, yet tightly regulated by extracellular fluid (ECF) osmolality and volume. Its reversible plasticity and physiological relevance make it a good system for studying interactions between gene expression and physiology. Here, four viral vectors were compared for their ability to transduce magnocellular neurosecretory neurons (MNCs) of the SON in adult rats. The vectors included an adenovirus, a lentivirus (HIV) and two serotypes of adeno-associated viruses (AAV5 and AAV2). Though adenovirus and AAV2 vectors have previously been used to transduce SON neurons, HIV and AAV5 have not. All four vectors transduced MNCs, but the AAV vectors were the most effective, transducing large numbers of MNCs, with minimal or no glial transduction. The AAV vectors were injected using a convection enhanced delivery protocol to maximize dispersal through the tissue, resulting in the transduction of neurons throughout the anterior to posterior length of the SON (1.5mm). AAV5, but not AAV2, showed some selectivity for SON neurons relative to those in the surrounding hypothalamus.
Gene transfer of the adaptor Lnk (SH2B3) prevents porcine endothelial cell activation and apoptosis: implication for xenograft's cytoprotection.	Targeting protective gene expression to porcine endothelium by genetic modification of the donor could improve xenograft survival by controlling cell activation and death. We previously found that, in endothelial cells (EC), the molecular adaptor Lnk (SH2B3) is a negative regulator of cytokine signaling. We also have shown that Lnk is upregulated in pig EC (PAEC) in response to tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) and xenoreactive natural antibodies (XNA) binding. The present study investigated whether ectopic expression of human Lnk using gene transfer may be efficient to control signaling pathways associated with inflammation and apoptosis in porcine aortic endothelial cells (PAEC).
Lentiviral transduction and clonal selection of hESCs with endothelial-specific transgenic reporters.	Generation of vascular endothelial cells (EC) from human embryonic stem cells (hESC) is a vital component of cell-based strategies for treatment of cardiovascular disease. Before hESC-derived ECs can be administered in therapeutic modalities, however, chemically defined culture conditions must be developed that reproducibly and robustly induce vascular differentiation. One approach to screening for culture conditions that support differentiation of hESCs to any cell type is their genetic modification with exogenous DNA sequence comprising a tissue-specific gene promoter driving reporters such as fluorescent protein or antibiotic drug resistance. The protocols herein provide instructions for the generation of clonal hESC lines containing a reporter transgene that is specifically expressed in vascular endothelial derivatives. Additionally, they demonstrate the methodology employed to assess vascular differentiation from clonal lines. Together, these protocols provide a solid foundation for study of vascular differentiation, and may also be applied, in principle, to studies of other specialized cell types derived from hESCs.
SALL4 is a robust stimulator for the expansion of hematopoietic stem cells.	HSCs are rare cells that have the unique ability to self-renew and differentiate into cells of all hematopoietic lineages. The lack of donors and current inability to rapidly and efficiently expand HSCs are roadblocks in the development of successful cell therapies. Thus, the challenge of ex vivo human HSC expansion remains a fertile and critically important area of investigation. Here, we show that either SALL4A- or SALL4B-transduced human HSCs obtained from the mobilized peripheral blood are capable of rapid and efficient expansion ex vivo by >10 000-fold for both CD34(+)/CD38(-) and CD34(+)/CD38(+) cells in the presence of appropriate cytokines. We found that these cells retained hematopoietic precursor cell immunophenotypes and morphology as well as normal in vitro or vivo potential for differentiation. The SALL4-mediated expansion was associated with enhanced stem cell engraftment and long-term repopulation capacity in vivo. Also, we demonstrated that constitutive expression of SALL4 inhibited granulocytic differentiation and permitted expansion of undifferentiated cells in 32D myeloid progenitors. Furthermore, a TAT-SALL4B fusion rapidly expanded CD34(+) cells, and it is thus feasible to translate this study into the clinical setting. Our findings provide a new avenue for investigating mechanisms of stem cell self-renewal and achieving clinically significant expansion of human HSCs.
Morphological evidence for a transport of ribosomes from Schwann cells to regenerating axons.	Recently, we showed that Schwann cells transfer ribosomes to injured axons. Here, we demonstrate that Schwann cells transfer ribosomes to regenerating axons in vivo. For this, we used lentiviral vector-mediated expression of ribosomal protein L4 and eGFP to label ribosomes in Schwann cells. Two approaches were followed. First, we transduced Schwann cells in vivo in the distal trunk of the sciatic nerve after a nerve crush. Seven days after the crush, 12% of regenerating axons contained fluorescent ribosomes. Second, we transduced Schwann cells in vitro that were subsequently injected into an acellular nerve graft that was inserted into the sciatic nerve. Fluorescent ribosomes were detected in regenerating axons up to 8 weeks after graft insertion. Together, these data indicate that regenerating axons receive ribosomes from Schwann cells and, furthermore, that Schwann cells may support local axonal protein synthesis by transferring protein synthetic machinery and mRNAs to these axons.
Parkin-mediated protection of dopaminergic neurons in a chronic MPTP-minipump mouse model of Parkinson disease.	Loss-of-function mutations in the ubiquitin ligase parkin are the major cause of recessively inherited early-onset Parkinson disease (PD). Impairment of parkin activity caused by nitrosative or dopamine-related modifications may also be responsible for the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in sporadic PD. Previous studies have shown that viral vector-mediated delivery of parkin prevented DA neurodegeneration in several animal models, but little is known about the neuroprotective actions of parkin in vivo. Here, we investigated mechanisms of neuroprotection of overexpressed parkin in a modified long-term mouse model of PD using osmotic minipump administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Recombinant adeno-associated viral vector-mediated intranigral delivery of parkin prevented motor deficits and DA cell loss in the mice. Ser129-phosphorylated -synuclein-immunoreactive cells were increased in the substantia nigra of parkin-treated mice. Moreover, delivery of parkin alleviated the MPTP-induced decrease of the active phosphorylated form of Akt. On the other hand, upregulation of p53 and mitochondrial alterations induced by chronic MPTP administration were barely suppressed by parkin. These results suggest that the neuroprotective actions of parkin may be impaired in severe PD.
Induction of specific human cytotoxic T cells using dendritic cells transduced with an adenovector encoding rat epidermal growth factor receptor 2.	This study demonstrates the ability to generate antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) against HER2 using a xenoantigenic immune stimulation strategy. Dendritic cells (DCs) were transduced with an adenovirus vector incorporating full-length cDNA for rat (xenoantigen) epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Adv-HER2). Stimulation of autologous T cells with Adv-HER2 infected DCs led to enhanced HER2-specific reactivity as assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) for T cell IFN- mRNA. In ELISPOT and intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) assays, CD8+ CTLs induced by Adv-HER2 transduced DCs released IFN- following stimulation with irradiated autologous DCs infected with Adv-HER2 or loaded with a human prostate cancer cell line (LNCaP) lysate. DCs pulsed with HER2 peptides were less stimulatory than Adv-HER2 transduced DCs. HER2 DC induced CTL lysed HER2+ HLA-A2+ tumor cells (MCF-7); significantly reduced lysis occurred in HER2+ HLA-A2- tumor cells (SKOV-3), and the NK cell sensitive cell line K-562.
Compensation of depleted neuronal subsets by new neurons in a local area of the adult olfactory bulb.	In the olfactory bulb (OB), loss of preexisting granule cells (GCs) and incorporation of adult-born new GCs continues throughout life. GCs consist of distinct subsets. Here, we examined whether the loss and incorporation of GC subsets are coordinated in the OB. We classified GCs into mGluR2-expressing and -negative subsets and selectively ablated mGluR2-expressing GCs in a local area of the OB with immunotoxin-mediated cell ablation method. The density of mGluR2-expressing GCs showed considerable recovery within several weeks after the ablation. During recovery, an mGluR2-expressing new GC subset was preferentially incorporated over an mGluR2-negative new GC subset in the area of ablation, whereas the preferential incorporation was not observed in the intact area. The area-specific preferential incorporation of mGluR2-expressing new GCs occurred for BrdU analog- and retrovirus-labeled adult-born cells as well as for neonate-derived transplanted cells. The mGluR2-expressing new GCs in the ablated area were synaptically incorporated into the local bulbar circuit. The spine size of mGluR2-expressing new GCs in the ablated area was larger than that of those in the intact area. In contrast, mGluR2-negative new GCs did not show ablated area-specific spine enlargement. These results indicate that local OB areas have a mechanism to coordinate the loss and incorporation of GC subsets by compensatory incorporation of new GC subsets, which involves subset-specific cellular incorporation and subset-specific regulation of spine size.
Pharmacological applications of baculovirus-mediated protein expression in mammalian cells.	The development of cell-based assays for cellular receptors, ion channels, and transporters requires the delivery and expression of transgenes. Viral-mediated gene delivery is a particularly attractive approach for this purpose because of its efficiency and potential to deliver genes to a wide variety of cell types. Recombinant baculoviruses, long used to deliver genes to insect cells for overexpression, also effectively transfer genes to mammalian cells. The only required modification to the virus for this purpose is the addition of transgene expression cassettes controlled by mammalian cell-active promoters. These so-called BacMam viruses are useful for developing mammalian cell-based assays for investigating the function of recombinant proteins and for assessing the action of pharmacological modulators of their function. The use of such viruses is gaining popularity because of the ease of optimizing assay conditions, the ability to deliver multiple gene products, and of their flexibility in terms of host cells and levels of transgene expression. BacMam-mediated assays may be used for studying a wide variety of target proteins and assay technologies. Described in this unit is an example of BacMam-mediated gene delivery to configure a cell-based assay for pharmacological assessment of a G protein-coupled receptor. A protocol is also provided describing the use of a GFP-expressing BacMam to assess the susceptibility of new cell lines to transduction by the virus.
Glutamatergic synapse formation is promoted by 7-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.	Glutamate is the primary excitatory transmitter in adult brain, acting through synapses on dendritic spines and shafts. Early in development, however, when glutamatergic synapses are only beginning to form, nicotinic cholinergic excitation is already widespread; it is mediated by acetylcholine activating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that generate waves of activity across brain regions. A major class of nAChRs contributing at this time is a species containing 7 subunits (7-nAChRs). These receptors are highly permeable to calcium, influence a variety of calcium-dependent events, and are diversely distributed throughout the developing CNS. Here we show that 7-nAChRs unexpectedly promote formation of glutamatergic synapses during development. The dependence on 7-nAChRs becomes clear when comparing wild-type (WT) mice with mice constitutively lacking the 7-nAChR gene. Ultrastructural analysis, immunostaining, and patch-clamp recording all reveal synaptic deficits when 7-nAChR input is absent. Similarly, nicotinic activation of 7-nAChRs in WT organotypic culture, as well as cell culture, increases the number of glutamatergic synapses. RNA interference demonstrates that the 7-nAChRs must be expressed in the neuron being innervated for normal innervation to occur. Moreover, the deficits persist throughout the developmental period of major de novo synapse formation and are still fully apparent in the adult. GABAergic synapses, in contrast, are undiminished in number under such conditions. As a result, mice lacking 7-nAChRs have an altered balance in the excitatory/inhibitory input they receive. This ratio represents a fundamental feature of neural networks and shows for the first time that endogenous nicotinic cholinergic signaling plays a key role in network construction.
Brief report: Misinterpretation of coculture differentiation experiments by unintended labeling of cardiomyocytes through secondary transduction: delusions and solutions.	Cardiomyogenic differentiation of stem cells can be accomplished by coculture with cardiomyocytes (CMCs). To facilitate their identification, stem cells are often labeled through viral transduction with a fluorescent protein. A second marker to distinguish stem cell-derived CMCs from native CMCs is rarely used. This study aimed to investigate the occurrence of secondary transduction of unlabeled neonatal rat (nr) CMCs after coculture with human cells that had been transduced 0, 7, or 14 days earlier with a vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G protein-pseudotyped lentiviral vector (LV) encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP). To reduce secondary LV transfer, GFP-labeled cells were incubated with non-heat-inactivated human serum (NHI) or with VSV-neutralizing rabbit serum (VSV). Heat-inactivated human serum and normal rabbit serum were used as controls. Immunostaining showed substantial GFP gene transfer to nrCMCs in cocultures started at the day of transduction indicated by the presence of GFP-positive/human lamin A/C-negative nrCMCs. The extent of secondary transduction was significantly reduced in cocultures initiated 7 days after GFP transduction, while it was completely abolished when human cells were added to nrCMCs 14 days post-transduction. Both NHI and VSV significantly reduced the occurrence of secondary transduction compared to their controls. However, under all circumstances, GFP-labeled human cells had to be passaged for 14 days prior to coculture initiation to prevent any horizontal GFP gene transfer to the nrCMCs. This study emphasizes that differentiation experiments involving the use of viral vector-marked donor cells should be interpreted with caution and describes measures to reduce/prevent secondary transduction.
The determination of importance of sequences neighboring the Psi sequence in lentiviral vector transduction and packaging efficiency.	A number of lentiviral vector systems have been developed for gene delivery and therapy by eliminating and/or modifying viral genetic elements. However, all lentiviral vector systems derived from HIV-1 must have a viral packaging signal sequence, Psi (), which is placed downstream of 5' long terminal repeat in a transgene plasmid to effectively package and deliver transgene mRNA. In this study, we examined feasible regions or sequences around Psi that could be manipulated to further modify the packaging sequence. Surprisingly, we found that the sequences immediately upstream of the Psi are highly refractory to any modification and resulted in transgene vectors with very poor gene transduction efficiency. Analysis around the Psi region revealed that there are a few sites that can be used for manipulation of the Psi sequence without disturbing the virus production as well as the efficiency of transgene RNA packaging and gene transduction. By exploiting this new vector system, we investigated the requirement of each of four individual stem-loops of the Psi sequence by deletion mapping analysis and found that all stem-loops, including the SL4 region, are needed for efficient transgene RNA packaging and gene delivery. These results suggest a possible frame of the lentiviral vector that might be useful for further modifying the region/sequence around the packaging sequence as well as directly on the Psi sequence without destroying transduction efficiency.
Bioactive baculovirus nanohybrids for stent based rapid vascular re-endothelialization.	Present study, for the first time, reports the development of a nanohybridized baculovirus based stent that can locally promote vascular re-endothelialization by efficient delivery of pro-angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor (Vegf) genes. In vitro data demonstrated rapid expression of functionally active Vegf by the bioactive stent-transduced vascular cells. In vivo site-specific transgene expression was observed at the stented regions of balloon-denuded canine femoral artery, which eventually lead to significant endothelial recovery at the injured sites. A significant reduction in neointima formation (2.23  0.56 mm(2) vs 2.78  0.49 mm(2) and 3.11  0.23 mm(2), p < 0.05; n = 8) and percent stenosis was observed in treated stent group compared to negative control and bare metal stent groups. These findings collectively implicate the potential of this newly developed baculovirus based biotherapeutic stent to ameliorate damaged vascular biology and attenuate re-narrowing of stented artery by inhibiting neointima formation.
Neuroprotection by rAAV-mediated gene transfer of bone morphogenic protein 7.	Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) promote the survival of neurons, suggesting a therapeutic application of BMPs in the treatment of acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. However, the application of recombinant BMPs in vivo is limited by their short half-life. To provide a continuous supply for functionally active BMPs, we expressed BMP7, BMP2 and the BMP inhibitor Noggin under the control of rAAV vectors in vivo. For visual control of rAAV-mediated BMP (v-BMP) expression we fused the secreted morphogenic polypeptides and the fluorescent reporter protein Venus via the 'ribosomal skip' promoting 2A peptide-bridge.
In vivo introduction of transgenes into mouse sciatic nerve cells in situ using viral vectors.	The myelin sheath is essential for the rapid and efficient propagation of action potentials. However, our understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms that regulate myelination, demyelination and remyelination is limited. Schwann cells produce myelin in the peripheral nervous system and remain associated with the axons of peripheral neurons throughout axonal migration to the target. Owing to the intimate relationship between these cell types it is difficult to fully reproduce their function in vitro. For this reason, we developed an approach based on the injection of an engineered virus into the sciatic nerve of mice to locally transduce peripheral nerve cells. This approach can be used as an alternative to germline transgenesis to facilitate the investigation of peripheral nerve biology in vivo. The detailed protocol, described here, requires 3 weeks to complete. In comparison with genetic modification strategies, this protocol is a fast, reproducible and straightforward method for introducing exogenous factors into myelinating Schwann cells and myelinated axons in vivo to investigate specific molecular mechanisms. 
