Effects of troxipide on acute gastric lesions in rats]	Effects of troxipide on several acute gastric lesions in rats were investigated in comparison with those of cetraxate. Troxipide (100, 200, 300 mg/kg) and cetraxate (100, 300, 1,000 mg/kg), given orally, dose-dependently protected the gastric mucosa from damage due to ethanol. Aspirin- and 0.6 N HCl-induced gastric lesions were dose-dependently inhibited by troxipide (200, 300 mg/kg), but only significantly inhibited by cetraxate at high dose (1,000 mg/kg). Troxipide (100, 200, 300 mg/kg) dose-dependently prevented the formation of gastric lesions induced by water-immersion stress, whereas cetraxate (600, 1,000 mg/kg) also significantly prevented gastric lesions. That is, protective effects of troxipide were much more potent than those of cetraxate against aspirin-, 0.6 N HCl- and water-immersion stress-induced gastric lesions, whereas both were almost equal against ethanol-induced gastric lesions. In addition, cytoprotective effects of troxipide against ethanol-induced lesions were most remarkable at 10, 30, 60 min after administration (100, 300 mg/kg) and lasted for up to 240 min. These results suggested that troxipide might be useful for the treatment of acute gastric lesions in humans.
A new screening method for anti-ulcer agents: psychological stress produced by intraspecies emotional communication.	Psychological stress produced by intraspecies emotional communication in a communication box was studied to see whether it could be applied to a new screening method for anti-ulcer agents. There were two groups of mice, the 'sender' mice that received electrical foot shocks and showed emotional responses such as piloerection, abnormal squealing and jumping, and the 'responder' mice that were affected by the sender's emotional responses without foot shock. The gastric lesions (erosions) produced by conditioned emotional stimuli were observed in both groups. The effects of the anti-ulcer drugs cetraxate, cimetidine and gefarnate were examined. In 'senders', the gastric lesions were significantly suppressed by the administration of cetraxate at a dose of 200 mg/kg (p.o.) or cimetidine at doses of 30 and 100 mg/kg (p.o.). The gastric lesions in 'responders' were significantly suppressed by two administrations of cetraxate at doses of 100 and 200 mg/kg (p.o.), cimetidine at doses of 10-100 mg/kg (p.o.) or gefarnate at a dose of 200 mg/kg (p.o.). The gastric lesions of 'responders' were more sensitive to anti-ulcer drugs. The present results indicate that the gastric erosions of 'responders' are useful for the evaluation of anti-ulcer agents.
Gastric ulcer treatment with intravenous human epidermal growth factor: a double-blind controlled clinical study.	We introduced a double-blind controlled clinical study to compare intravenous human epidermal growth factor (hEGF) to cetraxate hydrochloride (CH), an antiulcer drug, for their healing effect on gastric ulcers. We also prospected an oral use of EGF on the basis of our experimental evidence. In the clinical trial, the rate of ulcer healing within 8 weeks was 77.9% (67/86) in patients receiving 6 micrograms EGF intravenously twice a week, being significantly greater than 51.7% (45/87) in those given CH. Taking together all aspects assessed including the healing rate, pain relief, blood examination and adverse reactions, we judged the hEGF to be a useful and safe anticuler drug. In rats, 50 micrograms/kg mouse EGF (mEGF) and 2% hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC) or 1.0 g/kg sucralfate given by gastric intubation significantly raised the residual mEGF levels in both gastric luminal content (HPC: x 30; sucralfate: x 300 as high as those in EGF alone) and tissue (HPC: x 60; sucralfate: x 100). In addition, the combined treatments significantly promoted healing of rat gastric ulcers whereas each agent alone had no significant effect as compared with control (saline). This indicated the beneficial effect on ulcers of oral administration of EGF with agents allowing it to remain at high levels in the stomach, whereas most reports suggested less effect of oral EGF on healing of gastroduodenal ulcers. Subsequent to the clinical study, evaluation of oral use of EGF may be expected as the next step in the treatment of ulcers. The experimental evidence above would possibly be a guide for such trial.
Effects of a highly selective plasma kallikrein inhibitor on collagen-induced arthritis in mice.	A study was conducted to evaluate the effects of a new, highly selective plasma kallikrein inhibitor, PKSI-527, on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. PKSI-527 or indomethacin was administered daily intraperitoneally from day 20 postimmunization. Clinical evaluation was performed, and two of the components of the kallikrein-kinin system, high-molecular-weight (HMW) kininogen and plasma prekallikrein, were assayed. PKSI-527, as well as indomethacin, reduced the severity of arthritis significantly. PKSI-527, but not indomethacin, restored consumed components of the kallikrein-kinin system. These results suggest that PKSI-527 suppresses CIA by modifying the kallikrein-kinin system and PKSI-527 as a synthetic plasma kallikrein inhibitor would be a valuable tool to study the mechanism of inflammation of arthritic diseases.
