Acute myeloid leukemia M2 and t(8;21)(q22;q22) with an unusual phenotype: myeloperoxidase (+), CD13 (-), CD14 (-), and CD33(-).	Cases of myeloid surface antigen-negative acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are rare. We describe the morphological, cytochemical, immunologic, and cytogenetic features of two patients with AML with maturation (FAB M2) and the phenotype MPO+, CD13 (-), CD33(-), CD56(+). Cytogenetic studies demonstrated t(8;21)(q22;q22). These findings suggest an association between the lack of CD13 and CD33 in myeloperoxidase-positive AML and the presence of t(8;21).
Apoptosis induced by the myelodysplastic syndrome-associated NPM-MLF1 chimeric protein.	The NPM-MLF1 chimeric protein is produced by the t(3;5)(q25.1;q34) chromosomal translocation, which is associated with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) prior to progression into acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Here we report that K562 human leukemia cells ectopically expressing NPM-MLF1, but not those with wild-type MLF1, were gradually eliminated from the culture by undergoing apoptosis. NIH3T3 mouse fibroblasts engineered to overexpress NPM-MLF1 grew normally but serum deprivation triggered apoptotic cell death with slower kinetics than did other well-known apoptotic inducers such as c-Myc or E2F-1. Quantitative analysis of apoptotic induction confirmed that, neither NPM nor MLF1, but the NPM-MLF1 fusion protein was able to induce apoptosis. Analyses using a variety of deletion mutants of NPM-MLF1 revealed that induction of apoptosis required the N-terminal domain of MLF1 and the NPM domain containing nuclear localization signal and that removal of the NPM dimerization domain markedly impaired the ability to induce apoptosis. Co-expression of Bcl-2 rescued NIH3T3 fibroblasts from NPM-MLF1-mediated cell death without affecting the expression level or the subcellular localization of NPM-MLF1 and enabled cells to progress into S phase in low serum. These findings provide an NPM-MLF1-mediated novel mechanism of apoptotic induction and imply that NPM-MLFI in collaboration with anti-apoptotic oncoproteins may play an important role in multi-step progression from MDS to AML.
Reciprocal chromosome painting shows that genomic rearrangement between rat and mouse proceeds ten times faster than between humans and cats.	Reciprocal chromosome painting between mouse and rat using complete chromosome probe sets of both species permitted us to assign the chromosomal homology between these rodents. The comparative gene mapping data and chromosome painting have a better than 90% correspondence. The reciprocal painting results graphically show that mouse and rat have strikingly different karyotypes. At least 14 translocations have occurred in the 10-20 million years of evolution that separates these two species. The evolutionary rate of chromosome translocations between these two rodents appears to be up to 10 times greater than that found between humans and cats, or between humans and chimpanzees, where over the last 5-6 million years just one translocation has occurred. Outgroup comparison shows that the mouse genome has incorporated at least three times the amount of interchromosomal rearrangements compared to the rat genome. The utility of chromosome painting was also illustrated by the assignment of two new chromosome homologies between rat and mouse unsuspected by gene mapping: between mouse 11 and rat 20 and between mouse 17 and rat 6. We conclude that reciprocal chromosome painting is a powerful method, which can be used with confidence to chart the genome and predict the chromosome location of genes. Reciprocal painting combined with gene mapping data will allow the construction of large-scale comparative chromosome maps between placental mammals and perhaps other animals.
Insertion/deletion polymorphism of the gene encoding for angiotensin-converting enzyme and microalbuminuria in essential arterial hypertension]	To assess the influence of insertion/deletion polymorphism in the ACE gene on the microalbuminuria in essential hypertension.
Leukemia in infants.	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in infants have in common a high incidence of translocations of the MLL gene at chromosome band 11q23. Similar translocations occur in leukemias associated with chemotherapies that target DNA topoisomerase II. MLL has numerous different partner genes. The role of the many MLL fusion proteins in leukemogenesis is not yet understood. The t(4;11) translocation, the most common translocation in infant ALL, adversely affects the outcome. Additional genetic changes, especially Ikaros alterations, are found in infant ALL. Other forms of myeloid leukemia in infants present as myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative syndromes, which may be associated with constitutional disorders. This review will consider all leukemia in infants, but will focus on leukemias with MLL gene translocations.
Multiple Ty-mediated chromosomal translocations lead to karyotype changes in a wine strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Enological strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae display a high level of chromosome length polymorphism, but the molecular basis of this phenomenon has not yet been clearly defined. In order to gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms responsible for the karyotypic variability, we examined the chromosomal constitution of a strain known to possess aberrant chromosomes. Our data revealed that the strain carries four rearranged chromosomes resulting from two reciprocal translocations between chromosomes III and I, and chromosomes III and VII. The sizes of the chromosomal fragments exchanged through translocation range from 40 to 150 kb. Characterization of the breakpoints indicated that the translocations involved the RAHS of chromosome III, a transposition hot-spot on the right arm of chromosome I and a region on the left arm of chromosome VII. An analysis of the junctions showed that in all cases Ty elements were present and suggested that the translocations result from recombination between transposable Ty elements. The evidence for multiple translocations mediated by Ty elements in a single strain suggests that spontaneous Ty-driven rearrangement could be quite common and may play a major role in the alteration of karyotypes in natural and industrial yeasts.
Combined RxFISH/G-banding allows refined karyotyping of solid tumors.	Chromosome banding analysis of solid tumors often yields incomplete karyotypes because of the complex rearrangements encountered. The addition of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) methods has helped improve the accuracy of solid tumor cytogenetics, but the absence of screening qualities from standard FISH approaches has proved a severe limitation. We describe the cytogenetic analysis of ten solid tumors using G-banding followed by cross-species color banding (RxFISH), a FISH-based screening technique giving a chromosome-specific banding pattern based on the genomic homologies between humans and gibbons. The addition of RxFISH analysis in all cases led to the identification of previously unidentified intra- as well as interchromosomal rearrangements, thus giving a much more certain and detailed karyotype. In two gastric stromal sarcomas, a tumor type for which no cytogenetic data were hitherto available, numerical chromosomal aberrations dominated, but one of the tumors also carried an unbalanced 7;17-translocation with the same breakpoint in chromosome 17 as that seen in endometrial stromal sarcomas.
Multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of the spermatozoa of a male heterozygous for a reciprocal translocation t(11;22)(q23;q11).	A reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 is a site-specific translocation that has been seen in many families with no common ancestry. This translocation is of particular interest because balanced carriers have a 0.7-3.7% risk of having children with the supernumerary der(22), resulting from a 3:1 segregation. We have used a three color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with specific DNA probes to determine the chromosome segregation pattern of a male carrier of a translocation t(11;22)(q23;q11). The probes selected included a centromeric marker for chromosome 11, a marker closely linked to the centromere of chromosome 22, and a third probe distal to the translocation breakpoint of chromosome 22. The results showed that 3:1 segregation is preferential in this patient, with 40.1% of spermatozoa belonging to this segregation type. Alternate segregation followed with 27.4% of analyzed spermatozoa; 17.6% resulted from adjacent 1 and 12.5% resulted from adjacent 2 segregation. We detected 0.5% of presumably diploid spermatozoa. Complementary adjacent 1 products were observed at statistically different frequencies (P = 0.02). Complementary adjacent 2 products without recombination in the interstitial segments were also seen at different frequencies (P = 0.002). In 3:1 segregation, the products containing one chromosome were observed more frequently than those with three chromosomes (P = 0.0001). The 24,+der(22) gamete was seen more frequently than all of the other gametes combined which had 24 chromosomes resulting from 3:1 segregation. The results of this study demonstrate that in this t(11;22) carrier, 3:1 segregation is preferential but not exclusive.
Analysis of B-cell neoplasias by spectral karyotyping (SKY).	B-cell neoplasias represent a heterogeneous group of diseases, including acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and the broad spectrum of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). Conventional cytogenetic analysis has revealed specific chromosomal aberrations in ALL as well as in NHL. Spectral karyotyping (SKY) is a novel molecular cytogenetic technique which allows the visualization of all human chromosomes in different colors, therefore greatly facilitating the recognition of chromosomal aberrations. The potential of SKY is exemplified by the fact that in our experience, 70% of the cases analyzed resulted in karyotypes where the majority of aberrations were either refined or new aberrations were detected when compared to their G-banding karyotypes. This also applies to the analysis of B-cell neoplasias. In hematologic malignancies, especially acute leukemias, specific chromosomal aberrations are of etiologic as well as diagnostic and prognostic importance. The identification of new recurrent chromosomal aberrations could therefore lead to a better characterization of disease entities or subgroups in ALL and NHL and further improve diagnosis, treatment stratification and ultimately prognosis. Interestingly, the comparison of the pattern of chromosomal aberrations in hematological neoplasias and carcinomas revealed striking differences. While about 50% of the aberrations in hematological malignancies are balanced translocations, such aberrations are exceedingly rare in epithelial cancers in which unbalanced structural and numerical aberrations prevail.
Recurrent non-reciprocal translocations of chromosome 5 in primary T(12;15)-positive BALB/c plasmacytomas.	The majority of inflammation-induced peritoneal BALB/c plasmacytomas (approximately 90%) harbor a balanced T(12;15) chromosomal translocation that deregulates the expression of the proto-oncogene c-myc. Recent evidence suggests that the T(12;15) is an initiating tumorigenic mutation that occurs in early plasmacytoma precursor cells. However, plasmacytomas take a long time to develop (average tumor latency approximately 220 days), which suggests that additional tumor progression events may be required to complete oncogenesis. We hypothesized that such tumor progression events may take the form of secondary chromosomal aberrations that can be detected by spectral karyotyping (SKY). We screened the entire chromosome complement of 18 primary BALB/c plasmacytomas carrying the T(12;15) and found in nine tumors (50% recurrence) secondary cytogenetic aberrations that involved bands D, E and F chromosome (Chr) 5. The Chr 5D-F rearrangements were manifested predominantly as unbalanced translocations with various partner chromosomes. This finding led us to propose the existence of an important plasmacytoma progression locus in the central region of Chr 5, which presumably becomes involved in peritoneal plasmacytoma development by promiscuous chromosomal translocations.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia with additional chromosomal abnormalities and absence of Auer rods.	We report 4 acute promyelocytic leukemia cases that demonstrated karyotypic abnormalities in addition to the classic t(15;17) translocation and did not contain any Auer rods in leukemic blasts and dysplastic promyelocytes, either in the peripheral blood or in the bone marrow. Morphologically, 2 cases were characterized as the common or hypergranular type, and 2 were otherwise typical of the microgranular variant. Three patients had typical clinical and laboratory signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Immunophenotypic analysis of the blasts and dysplastic promyelocytes by dual-color flow cytometry revealed an immunoprofile consistent with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow revealed the following karyotypes: case 1, [47,XY,t(15;17)(q22;q12),+21]; case 2, [47,XY,t(15;17)(q22;q12),-16,+2 mar]; case 3, [47,XX,t(15;17)(q22;q12)ider(17)(q10),+8]; and case 4, [47,XY,der(5)t(5;?9)(p15;q12).t(15;17)(q22;q12]. Review of an additional 7 cases with t(15;17) as the sole cytogenetic abnormality revealed Auer rods in all cases. Our findings emphasize the importance of cytogenetics in evaluating acute myeloid leukemias. Acute promyelocytic leukemia without Auer rods, which may be morphologically confused with other types of leukemia (in particular, acute myeloblastic leukemia, type M2 or M5) or agranulocytosis with maturation arrest, appears to be associated with additional chromosomal abnormalities and possibly a poorer prognosis.
hSNF5/INI1 inactivation is mainly associated with homozygous deletions and mitotic recombinations in rhabdoid tumors.	The chromatin-remodeling hSNF5/INI1 gene has recently been shown to act as a tumor suppressor gene in rhabdoid tumors (RTs). In an attempt to further characterize the main chromosomal mechanisms involved in hSNF5/INI1 inactivation in RTs, we report here the molecular cytogenetic data obtained in 12 cell lines harboring hSNF5/INI1 mutations and/or deletions in relation to the molecular genetic analysis using polymorphic markers extended to both extremities of chromosome 22q. On the whole, mitotic recombination occurring in the proximal part of chromosome 22q, as demonstrated in five cases, and nondisjunction/duplication, highly suspected in two cases (processes leading respectively to partial or complete isodisomy), appear to be major mechanisms associated with hSNF5/INI1 inactivation. Such isodisomy accompanies each of the RTs exhibiting two cytogenetically normal chromosomes 22. This results in homozygosity for the mutation at the hSNF5/INI1 locus. An alternate mechanism accounting for hSNF5/INI1 inactivation observed in these tumors is homozygous deletion in the rhabdoid consensus region. This was observed in each of the four tumors carrying a chromosome 22q abnormality and, in particular, in the three tumors with chromosomal translocations. Only one case of our series illustrates the mutation/deletion classical model proposed for the double-hit inactivation of a tumor suppressor gene.
The SYT-SSX1 variant of synovial sarcoma is associated with a high rate of tumor cell proliferation and poor clinical outcome.	Cytogenetically, synovial sarcoma (SS) is characterized by the translocation t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2), resulting in a fusion between the SYT gene on chromosome 18 and SSX1 or SSX2 on the X chromosome and the formation of new chimeric genes, SYT-SSX1 or SYT-SSX2. We examined the potential clinical relevance of SYT-SSX1 and SYT-SSX2 fusion transcripts together with tumor proliferation. In a series of 33 patients with primary SS, the type of fusion transcript was assessed by reverse transcription-PCR and sequence analysis. The proliferation rate was analyzed using anti-Ki-67 antibodies. One case carrying an atypical transcript with a 57-bp insert was excluded, leaving 13 SYT-SSX1 and 19 SYT-SSX2 cases for analysis. The hazard ratio (with respect to metastasis-free survival for patients with SYT-SSX1 versus patients with SYT-SSX2 fusion transcripts was 7.4 (95% confidence interval, 1.5-36; log-rank P = 0.004). There was also an association with reduced overall survival for patients with SYT-SSX1 compared to patients with SYT-SSX2 (hazard ratio, 8.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-73; log-rank P = 0.02). The 5-year metastasis-free survival for patients with SYT-SSX1 was 42% versus 89% for patients with SYT-SSX2. There was a significant association between SYT-SSX1 and a high tumor proliferation rate (P = 0.02). We conclude that the findings suggest that the type of SYT-SSX fusion transcript determines the proliferation rate and is an important predictor of clinical outcome in patients with SS.
Detection of t(4;14)(p16.3;q32) chromosomal translocation in multiple myeloma by double-color fluorescent in situ hybridization.	Chromosomal translocations involving the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) locus at chromosome 14q32 represent a common mechanism of oncogene activation in lymphoid malignancies. In multiple myeloma (MM), variable chromosome partners have been identified by conventional cytogenetics, including the 11q13, 8q24, 18q21, and 6p21 loci. We and others have recently reported a novel, karyotypically undetectable chromosomal translocation t(4;14)(p16. 3;q32) in MM-derived cell lines, as well as in primary tumors. The 4p16.3 breakpoints are relatively scattered and located less than 100 kb centromeric of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene or within the recently identified WHSC1 gene, both of which are apparently deregulated by the translocation. To assess the frequency of the t(4;14)(p16.3;q32) translocation in MM, we performed a double-color fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of interphase nuclei with differently labeled probes specific for the IGH locus (a pool of plasmid clones specific for the IGH constant regions) or 4p16.3 (yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) 764-H1 spanning the region involved in breakpoints). Thirty MM patients, the MM-derived cell lines KMS-11 and OPM2, and six normal controls were examined. The identification of a t(4;14) translocation, evaluated as the presence of a der(14) chromosome, was based on the colocalization of signals specific for the two probes; a cutoff value of 15% (mean + 3 standard deviation [SD]) derived from the interphase FISH of the normal controls (range, 5% to 11%; mean +/- SD, 8.16 +/- 2.2) was used for the quantification analysis. In interphase FISH, five patients (one in clinical stage I, two in stage II, one in stage III, and a plasma cell leukemia) were found to be positive (approximately 15%). FISH metaphases with split or colocalized signals were detected in only two of the translocated cases and confirmed the pattern found in the interphase nuclei. Furthermore, in three of the five cases with the translocation, FISH analysis with the IGH joining probe (JH) showed the presence of the reciprocal product of the translocation [der(4) chromosome]. Overall, our study indicates that the t(4;14)(p16. 3;q32) chromosomal translocation is a recurrent event in MM tumors and may contribute towards the detection of this lesion and our understanding of its pathogenetic and clinical implications in MM.
NUP98 is fused to PMX1 homeobox gene in human acute myelogenous leukemia with chromosome translocation t(1;11)(q23;p15).	The nucleoporin gene NUP98 was found fused to the HOXA9, HOXD13, or DDX10 genes in human acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) with chromosome translocations t(7;11)(p15;p15), t(2;11)(q35;p15), or inv(11)(p15;q22), respectively. We report here the fusion between the NUP98 gene and another homeobox gene PMX1 in a case of human AML with a t(1;11)(q23;p15) translocation. The chimeric NUP98-PMX1 transcript was detected; however, there was no reciprocal PMX1-NUP98 fusion transcript. Like the NUP98-HOXA9 fusion, NUP98 and PMX1 were fused in frame and the N-terminal GLFG-rich docking region of the NUP98 and the PMX1 homeodomain were conserved in the NUP98-PMX1 fusion, suggesting that PMX1 homeodomain expression is upregulated and that the fusion protein may act as an oncogenic transcription factor. The fusion to NUP98 results in the addition of the strong transcriptional activation domain located in the N-terminal region of NUP98 to PMX1. These findings suggest that constitutive expression and alteration of the transcriptional activity of the PMX1 homeodomain protein may be critical for myeloid leukemogenesis.
A new recurrent translocation, t(5;11)(q35;p15.5), associated with del(5q) in childhood acute myeloid leukemia. The UK Cancer Cytogenetics Group (UKCCG)	Partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5, del(5q), is the cytogenetic hallmark of the 5q-syndrome, a distinct subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome-refractory anemia (MDS-RA). Deletions of 5q also occur in the full spectrum of other de novo and therapy-related MDS and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) types, most often in association with other chromosome abnormalities. However, the loss of genetic material from 5q is believed to be of primary importance in the pathogenesis of all del(5q) disorders. In the present study, we performed fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies using a chromosome 5-specific whole chromosome painting probe and a 5q subtelomeric probe to determine the incidence of cryptic translocations. We studied archival fixed chromosome suspensions from 36 patients with myeloid disorders (predominantly MDS and AML) and del(5q) as the sole abnormality. In 3 AML patients studied, this identified a translocation of 5q subtelomeric sequences from the del(5q) to the short arm of an apparently normal chromosome 11. FISH with chromosome 11-specific subtelomeric probes confirmed the presence of 11p on the shortened 5q. Further FISH mapping confirmed that the 5q and 11p translocation breakpoints were the same in all 3 cases, between the nucleophosmin (NPM1) and fms-related tyrosine kinase 4 (FLT4) genes on 5q35 and the Harvey ras-1-related gene complex (HRC) and the radixin pseudogene (RDPX1) on 11p15.5. Importantly, all 3 patients with the cryptic t(5;11) were children: a total of 3 of 4 AML children studied. Two were classified as AML-M2 and the third was classified as M4. All 3 responded poorly to treatment and had short survival times, ranging from 10 to 18 months. Although del(5q) is rare in childhood AML, this study indicates that, within this subgroup, the incidence of cryptic t(5;11) may be high. It is significant that none of the 24 MDS patients studied, including 11 confirmed as having 5q-syndrome, had the translocation. Therefore, this appears to be a new nonrandom chromosomal translocation, specifically associated with childhood AML with a differentiated blast cell phenotype and the presence of a del(5q).
Risk of abnormal pregnancy outcome in carriers of balanced reciprocal translocations involving the Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS) critical region in chromosome 17p13.3.	We studied the pedigrees of 14 families segregating a reciprocal translocation with one breakpoint in chromosome 17p13 and the other in the distal region of another autosome. All 14 were ascertained on the basis of an affected index case: 13 had Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS) and one had dup(17p). In these 14 families, 38 balanced translocation carriers had 127 pregnancies, corrected for ascertainment bias by the exclusion of all index cases and carriers in the line of descent to the index cases. An abnormal phentotype, unbalanced chromosome constitution, or both, were found in 33 of 127 (26%) pregnancies: 15 of 127 (12%) had MDS and an unbalanced karyotype with del (17p); 9 of 127 (7%) had a less severe phenotype with dup(17p); and 9 were unstudied, although MDS with der(17) was usually suspected based on early death and multiple congenital anomalies. When unexplained pregnancy losses, including miscarriages and stillbirths, were excluded from the total, 33 of 99 (33%) pregnancies were phenotypically or genotypically abnormal. The overall risk of abnormal pregnancy outcome of 26% is in the upper range of the reported risk for unbalanced offspring of carrier parents assessed through liveborn aneuploid offspring [Gardner and Sutherland (1996), Oxford Univ. Press]. The risk increases to 33% when unexplained pregnancy losses are excluded from the total. These results are consistent with Daniel's model of risk based on the size of the unbalanced fragments [Daniel (1985) Clin Genet 28:216-224, Daniel et al. (1989) Am J Med Genet 31:14-53]. Pregnancy losses included 26 miscarriages (20%) and two stillbirths (2%) among the 127 pregnancies, similar to the respective population frequencies of 10-20% and 1%.
"Essentially pure" partial trisomy (6)(p23-->pter) in two brothers due to maternal t(6;17)(p23;p13.3).	We report on two brothers with low birth weight, growth retardation, microcephaly, minor facial anomalies, mental retardation, and trisomy (6)(p23-->pter) due to a maternal t(6;17)(p23;p13.3). As demonstrated by fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) with the Miller-Dieker cosmid probe (D17S379) and with a subtelomeric probe (D17S34) the additional deletion on 17p13 is very small, and therefore, the phenotype of these two boys is most likely the result of essentially pure partial trisomy 6p. Comparison of the clinical findings with those of ten cases from the literature of dup(6p) with a breakpoint in or more distal to 6p23 allows delineation of a specific phenotype of dup(6)(p23-->pter) characterized by low birth weight, growth retardation, microcephaly, and blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis, microstomia, and abnormal ears.
Delineation of multiple deleted regions in 7q in myeloid disorders.	Loss of chromosome material due to deletions of the long arm of chromosome 7, del(7q), is a consistent finding in all types of myeloid disorders, invariably associated with a poor prognosis. Two different segments, 7q22 and 7q32-q33, have been implicated as critical regions of gene loss associated with these disorders. In the present study, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to characterize the 7q22 breakpoint of an apparently balanced t(7;7)(p13;q22) in an acute myeloid leukemia patient. FISH analysis on bone marrow metaphases from this patient revealed that the sequence corresponding to a series of three ordered cosmids from 7q22 was deleted from one of the der(7) chromosomes. These cosmids contain the human homologue of the Drosophila homeobox gene cut (CUTL1) and span a region of approximately 150 kb. Although the proximal boundary of the deleted segment could not be exactly defined, we estimate the size of this deletion to be approximately 500 kb. Subsequently, we carried out FISH studies using the CUTL1 cosmids on a further 16 patients with deletions of 7q and myeloid disorders. The sequence corresponding to at least two of the cosmids was deleted from the del(7q) in 11 out of 14 cases with a proximal breakpoint within 7q22. Further detailed FISH mapping in this series of 17 patients has identified two other nonoverlapping commonly deleted segments at 7q31-q32 and 7q33, respectively. These data confirm and refine other studies, implying that several different genes on 7q may be involved in the pathogenesis of myeloid diseases. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 25:384-392, 1999.
A new human synovial sarcoma cell line, HS-SY-3, with a truncated form of hybrid SYT/SSX1 gene.	Recent cytogenetical and molecular studies have indicated that synovial sarcoma harbors a t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) translocation, resulting in the formation of a hybrid SYT/SSX (SSX1 or SSX2) gene. We newly established a human cell line, HS-SY-3, from a synovial sarcoma. HS-SY-3 cells were shown to harbor the pathognomonic t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) translocation by chromosome analysis but not to exhibit the classical hybrid SYT/SSX transcripts induced by this translocation, using RT-PCR. To determine the reason for this discrepancy, we analyzed cDNA from HS-SY-3 cells, as well as the original sarcoma tissue by the rapid amplification of cDNA 3' end assay, and found that the chimaeric cDNA was 240 bp shorter than the previously established SYT/SSX1 cDNA due to truncation of the 3' side of SSX1. The HS-SY-3 cells should be useful for future functional studies of the SYT/SSX chimeric gene.
Molecular diagnostics in the treatment of leukemia.	The molecular characterization of childhood leukemias directly affects our treatment strategies. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients with the TEL-AML1 fusion have a favorable prognosis, whereas those with the E2A-PBX1 fusion require more intensive therapy to obtain a good outcome. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients whose leukemic lymphoblasts contain the MLL-AF4 or the BCR-ABL fusion are often candidates for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation during first remission. Among acute myeloid leukemia patients, AML1-ETO and CBFbeta-MYH11 fusions are associated with a favorable response, especially when the chemotherapy regimen includes high-dose cytarabine. Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia who carry the PML-RAR alpha fusion respond to all-trans retinoic acid and have an excellent outcome after treatment with all-trans retinoic acid in combination with anthracyclines. Several novel therapeutic agents targeted to molecular lesions of leukemic cells are under investigation.
Biology and treatment of acute progranulocytic leukemia.	Acute progranulocytic leukemia (APL) is one of the most curable of all human cancers. Combination treatment with retinoic acid (RA) and anthracycline-based chemotherapy is safe and effective for the vast majority of patients, and several novel treatment approaches are under investigation for high-risk or relapsed patients. The APL-specific oncogenes PML-RAR alpha and PLZF-RAR alpha both bind nuclear corepressors and recruit histone deacetylase activity to promoters of RA target genes. The differential sensitivity of binding of these oncogenes to nuclear corepressors in the presence of RA appears to explain the resistance of PLZF-RAR alpha-related APL to RA and at the same time explains the effectiveness of RA in PML-RAR alpha-positive APL. Transcriptional repression of RA target genes, mediated by histone deacetylase activity, may thus be a key pathogenetic event in APL. Cure of the minority of resistant patients requires further refinement of current treatment approaches and appropriately timed incorporation of novel therapies, such as arsenic trioxide or histone deacetylase inhibitors.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Over the past year, new information has been reported on the biology and treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Chronic myelogenous leukemia is characterized by the breakpoint cluster region (BCR-ABL) chimeric gene, the product of which is p210BCR-ABL, a tyrosine kinase that gives hematopoietic cells the characteristics of excessive proliferation, resistance to physiologic apoptotic signals, and resistance to chemotherapy. Recently, investigators have attempted to 1) elucidate the mechanisms by which the BCR-ABL gene and its product initiate and maintain the malignant phenotype, 2) improve the use of the BCR-ABL gene as a diagnostic marker of disease, and 3) inhibit the expression of this gene as a therapeutic maneuver. Other investigators have tried to explain interferon's mechanism of action in the treatment of CML and to improve the safety and applicability of stem cell transplantation (SCT) as a therapy for CML.
Chromosome abnormalities and MLL rearrangements in acute myeloid leukemia of infants.	Of 29 infants with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 14 (48%) had various 11q23 translocations. MLL rearrangements were examined in 21 of the 29 patients, and 11 (52%) showed the rearrangements. 11q23 translocations and/or MLL rearrangements were found in 17 (58%) of the 29 patients. While all but one of the 17 patients with 11q23/MLL rearrangements had M4 or M5 type of the FAB classification, the 12 patients without such rearrangements had various FAB types, including M2, M4, M4EO, M6 and M7. Of the 12 patients with other chromosome abnormalities or normal karyotypes, two had inv(16) ort(16;16), one had t(1;22)(p13;q13), and two had a novel translocation, t(7;12)(q32;p13). The breakpoint on 12p of the t(7;12) was assigned to intron 1 or the region just upstream of exon 1 of the TEL/ETV6 gene by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The event-free survival at 5 years for the 17 patients with 11q23/MLL rearrangements was 42.2%, and that for the 12 patients without such rearrangements was 31.3% (P = 0.5544). 11q231MLL rearrangements have been frequently reported and a poor prognosis in infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia implied. Our study showed that while 11q23/MLL rearrangements were also common in infant AML, AML infants with such rearrangements had a clinical outcome similar to that of AML infants without such rearrangements.
Isolation and characterisation of recombination events involving immunoglobulin heavy chain switch regions in multiple myeloma using long distance vectorette PCR (LDV-PCR).	Immunoglobulin class switching occurs as a result of recombination between pairs of switch region sequences located 5' to each constant heavy chain gene except Cdelta. In the B cell neoplasm multiple myeloma, tumour cells have generally undergone class switching and often contain oncogenic sequences translocated into switch regions, presumably as a result of aberrant switch recombination. We have developed a method (LDV-PCR) which combines long distance PCR with one-sided vectorette PCR that is capable of detecting and isolating both normal and aberrant switch recombination breakpoints from multiple myeloma cell lines and primary multiple myeloma tumour material. Using LDV-PCR we have directly cloned the translocation breakpoints present in two multiple myeloma cell lines and isolated a normal productive switch recombination event from a primary tumour. Furthermore, we have isolated a novel translocation t(14;22)(q32;q12) from a primary tumour sample and have demonstrated that internal deletions within switch regions can occur in multiple myeloma cells. Compared to a Southern blotting approach, LDV-PCR is simpler and more rapid to perform, allows the simultaneous detection and isolation of recombination events, and can also be applied to amounts of DNA which are too low to permit the conventional cloning of recombination breakpoints.
Different evolutionary histories in two subgenomic regions of the major histocompatibility complex.	Two subgenomic regions within the major histocompatibility complex, the alpha and beta blocks, contain members of the multicopy gene families HLA class I, human endogenous retroviral sequence (HERV-16; previously known as P5 and PERB3), hemochromatosis candidate genes (HCG) (II, IV, VIII, IX), 3.8-1, and MIC (PERB11). In this study we show that the two blocks consist of imperfect duplicated segments, which contain linked members of the different gene families. The duplication and truncation sites of the segments are associated with retroelements. The retroelement sites appear to generate the imperfect duplications, insertions/deletions, and rearrangements, most likely via homologous recombination. Although the two blocks share several characteristics, they differ in the number and orientation of the duplicated segments. On the 62.1 haplotype, the alpha block consists of at least 10 duplicated segments that predominantly contain pseudogenes and gene fragments of the HLA class I and MIC (PERB11) gene families. In contrast, the beta block has two major duplications containing the genes HLA-B and HLA-C, and MICA (PERB11.1) and MICB (PERB11.2). Given the common origin between the blocks, we reconstructed the duplication history of the segments to understand the processes involved in producing the different organization in the two blocks. We then found that the beta block contains four distinct duplications from two separate events, whereas the alpha block is characterized by multisegment duplications. We will discuss these results in relation to the genetic content of the two blocks.
Immunotherapeutic approaches to sarcoma.	In the last decade, the most important factor in the rekindled interest in immune therapy for cancer is the development of new methods to identify tumor antigens that can be recognized by T-cells and other immune effectors. In addition, greater knowledge about tolerance and mechanisms of tumor cell evasion from immune effectors has made the prospect of developing clinically effective immune therapies for cancer seem promising. Research in immune therapies for sarcoma has been limited, mainly because of the previous lack of defined tumor antigens in this disease and the low prevalence of sarcoma in the general population. We will review the fundamental concepts of tumor immunobiology, both cellular and humoral, and highlight the new, powerful methods for identifying novel tumor antigens. Further, we will focus on the unique situation presented by sarcoma as the only solid tumor in which many cytogenetic abnormalities have been characterized which encode for unique, tumor-specific fusion proteins that are ideal targets for immune-based therapy. We will review the specifics of vaccine therapy approach to this disease, with emphasis on strategies to improve the immunogenicity of newly defined tumor antigens in sarcoma.
Renal cell carcinomas in children and young adults: increased incidence of papillary architecture and unique subtypes.	Renal cell carcinomas in children and young adults are rare, and the pathologic features of these tumors have not been well described. We reviewed 24 renal cell carcinomas in children and young adults ages 6 to 29 years, 14 of whom were younger than 18 years of age. Fourteen were female. In 19 (79%) of 24 cases, the tumor met histologic criteria for papillary renal cell carcinoma, with at least 50% papillary architecture. Four of the remaining five cases were typical clear cell tumors in patients known to have von Hippel Lindau syndrome, and one case was of chromophobe type. In the papillary tumors, calcifications, high nuclear grade, extracapsular extension (American Joint Commission on Cancer stage T3), and lymph node metastases were common. Among these papillary tumors, four distinct histologic patterns could be identified. Collecting duct-like tumors (two cases) involved the large collecting ducts, were multifocal and predominantly papillary, and had focal tubular and solid areas. These tumors were reactive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and keratins, including CK7, but negative for Ulex europeaus and high molecular weight keratin 34BE12. Voluminous cell tumors (four cases) were composed of cells with extremely voluminous clear cytoplasm and, although predominantly papillary, had areas that also resembled clear cell tumors. These tumors were reactive for keratins AE1/AE3 but were otherwise negative for all other keratins, EMA, and U. europeaus. One of these tumors showed an X;7 translocation. Adult type tumors (12 cases) resembled papillary tumors of adults. These tumors were reactive for EMA and keratins, including CK7, and all but one were negative for U. europeaus and keratin 34BE12. This last case had trisomies of chromosomes 7, 16, 17, and 20. The final neuroendocrinelike case was multifocal, organoid, and composed of nests of small cells in a neuroendocrinelike pattern. Three of 13 patients were alive with disease at last follow-up, and three additional patients died of disease, all within 2 years. Progression was highly associated with lymph node involvement at the time of resection. We conclude that the clinicopathologic features of renal cell carcinomas in children and young adults differ from those arising in older adults. These tumors are characteristically high-grade, high-stage, papillary tumors with numerous calcifications, and several subtypes can be identified based on histologic, immunohistochemical, and cytogenetic features. Some subtypes appear to be unique to this age group.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma of the rectum with chromosomal translocation of the t(11;18)(q21;q21) and an additional aberration of trisomy 3.	A rare case of primary mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (MALT) of the rectum is reported. A 56-yr-old man was referred to our hospital for further examination and treatment of rectal neoplasm. A physical examination and laboratory data showed no special abnormalities. However, endoscopic colorectal observation revealed multiple red and slightly elevated nodular lesions with erosive changes of the rectum. The lesions were composed of diffuse, small atypical lymphoid cells (i.e., centrocyte-like cells) and were stained with L26 and BCL-2 but not cyclin D1. Surface markers of cells obtained from biopsy specimens were CD5-, CD10-, CD19+, CD20+, kappa+, and lambda-. No BCL-2 gene rearrangement was observed. The clonal karyotype of t(11;18)(q21;q21) was observed in six of nine lymphoid cells. Trisomy was also identified two of 144 cells by fluorescence in situ hybridization. We report a rare case of the rectal MALT lymphoma bearing characteristic chromosomal aberrations; t(11;18)(q21;q21) and trisomy 3. We suggest that chromosomal analysis using biopsy specimens may be useful for the diagnosis of MALT lymphoma.
Exclusion of linkage of Shwachman-Diamond syndrome to chromosome regions 6q and 12q implicated by a de novo translocation.	Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is a rare genetic disorder of unknown pathogenesis involving exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hematological and skeletal abnormalities. There is broad clinical variability; the extent of heterogeneity is unknown but comparisons within a large cohort of patients show no striking differences between patients of families with single or multiple affected offspring. Segregation analysis of a cohort of 69 families has suggested an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. A single constitutional de novo chromosome rearrangement was reported in a Japanese patient involving a balanced translocation, t(6;12)(q16.2;q21.2), thereby suggesting possible loci for a genetic defect. Evenly spaced microsatellite markers spanning 26-32 cM intervals from D6S1056 to D6S304 and D12S375 to D12S346 were analyzed for linkage in members of 13 Shwachman-Diamond syndrome families with two or three affected children. Two-point lod scores were calculated for each marker under assumptions of recessive inheritance and complete penetrance. Negative lod scores indicated exclusion of both chromosome regions. Further, affected sibs were discordant for inheritance of chromosomes in most families based on constructed haplotypes. The cytogenetic abnormality is not associated with most cases of Shwachman-Diamond syndrome.
Keratosis pilaris and ulerythema ophryogenes associated with an 18p deletion caused by a Y/18 translocation.	We present a patient with partial monosomy of the short arm of chromosome 18 caused by de novo translocation t(Y;18) and a generalized form of keratosis pilaris (keratosis pilaris affecting the skin follicles of the trunk, limbs and face-ulerythema ophryogenes). Two-color FISH with centromere-specific Y and 18 DNA probes identified the derivative chromosome 18 as a dicentric with breakpoints in p11.2 on both involved chromosomes. The patient had another normal Y chromosome. This is a third report the presence of a chromosome 18p deletion (and first case of a translocation involving 18p and a sex chromosome) with this genodermatosis. Our data suggest that the short arm of chromosome 18 is a candidate region for a gene causing keratosis pilaris. Unmasking of a recessive mutation at the disease locus by deletion of the wild type allele could be the cause of the recessive genodermatosis.
Secondary chromosome changes in mantle cell lymphoma.	Mantle cell lymphomas (MCLs) comprise a rare but distinct clinicopathological entity usually associated with t(11;14). This translocation is regarded as a primary event, but it has been suggested that other as yet unidentified genetic alterations are required for development and progression of MCL.
AlphaIFN-induced hematologic and cytogenetic remission in chronic eosinophilic leukemia with t(1;5).	Chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL) is a myeloproliferative disease characterized by excessive eosinophilic proliferation with clonal cytogenetic abnormalities. The most frequent cytogenetic abnormality is a break in the q 31-35 region of chromosome 5, where genes encoding for IL-3, IL-5 and GM-CSF (all cytokines involved in eosinophilopoiesis) are located. We report the case of a patient with CEL with t(1;5) (q23;q31), who obtained complete hematologic and major cytogenetic response after two years of alpha-interferon (alpha-IFN) therapy. Two other cases of complete response to alpha-IFN are reported in the literature. A trial with alpha-IFN could be considered as front line treatment in this rare disease.
Skeletal and extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: related or distinct tumors?	Skeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is a histologic variant of conventional skeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, whereas extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is a distinct entity characterized by a reciprocal t(9;22) translocation resulting in fusion of the EWS and CHN genes. Rarely, extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma can occur in bone, and it is difficult to describe such tumors, unambiguously, using the present nomenclature. Designation as "chordoid sarcoma of bone" would distinguish these cases from conventional skeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma.
Bcl-6 and Bcl-2 protein expression in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma: correlation with 3q27 and 18q21 chromosomal abnormalities.	The bcl-2 gene on chromosome 18 at q21 and the bcl-6 gene on chromosome 3 at q27 are both highly regulated during B-cell differentiation and show an inverse relationship of expression in the normal secondary lymphoid follicle. The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between bcl-2 and bcl-6 protein expression and the relationship between protein expression and the corresponding chromosomal alterations in malignant lymphomas, including those associated with the germinal center. Expression of bcl-2 and bcl-6 proteins was studied in 55 cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and 21 cases of follicular lymphoma (FL), and the results correlated with the presence of t(14;18) and 3q27 abnormalities in a subset of 52 cases with cytogenetic analysis. These cases were selected to represent a spectrum of nodal and extranodal lymphomas, including those with and without a t(14;18). It was shown that the neoplastic cells in 71% of DLBCLs and 100% of FLs expressed bcl-6 protein. Expression of bcl-6 was seen more frequently in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas with large noncleaved morphology compared with immunoblastic morphology (82% v 27%, P = .0015), but failed to correlate with 3q27 abnormalities. Thirty-eight percent of cases with 3q27 abnormalities were bcl-6 protein negative, whereas 85% of cases without a 3q27 abnormalities were bcl-6 protein positive. Expression of bcl-2 protein was shown in 51% DLBCLs (nodal v extranodal, 71% v 30%, P = .012). bcl-2 protein was expressed in 89% of FLs with t(14;18), in contrast to 25% of FLs without t(14;18) (P = .016). In DLBCL and FL with t(14;18), the most common pattern of expression was bcl-2+/bcl-6+. In lymphomas without t(14;18), there was not an inverse relationship between bcl-2 and bcl-6 protein expression. In conclusion, these data suggest that mechanisms other than gene rearrangements can deregulate bcl-2 and bcl-6 expression in lymphomas, and there does not appear to be an inverse relationship between these two proteins as seen in the normal germinal center.
Rapid isolation of chromosomal breakpoints from patients with t(4;11) acute lymphoblastic leukemia: implications for basic and clinical research.	Chromosomal translocations t(4;11)(q21;q23) are associated with a group of acute lymphoblastic leukemias with very poor prognosis. From the complete sequences of the breakpoint cluster regions of the human MLL and AF-4 translocation partner genes, a novel set of 66 oligonucleotides that facilitates the rapid identification of translocation breakpoints by PCR analysis of genomic DNA was designed. For each breakpoint, a pair of optimally snited primers can be assigned, which improves the monitoring of the disease during treatment. Comparison of the breakpoints with the corresponding parental sequences also contributes to our better understanding of the illegitimate recombination events leading to these translocations.
Combined immunodeficiency associated with increased apoptosis of lymphocytes and radiosensitivity fibroblasts.	Severe immunodeficiency characterized by lymphopenia was found in two siblings, one of whom was examined in detail. The calcium flux, pattern of tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins, and interleukin 2 (IL-2) production and proliferation in response to mitogens suggested that the peripheral blood T cells activated normally. The peripheral blood T cells were shown to have an activated phenotype with increased expression of CD45RO+ and CD95/Fas. Increased spontaneous apoptosis occurred in unstimulated lymphocyte cultures. The elevated apoptosis was not due to alterations in expression or to mutations in Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), or Flip, nor could the spontaneous apoptosis be prevented by blocking Fas, suggesting that it was independent of Fas signaling. This is the first inherited combined immunodeficiency associated with impaired lymphocyte survival. Fibroblasts derived from the patient showed appreciable radiosensitivity in clonal assays, but apoptosis was not elevated. Our results show that the fibroblasts represent a new radiosensitive phenotype not associated with cell cycle checkpoint defects, V(D)J recombination defects, or elevated chromosome breakage. We suggest that the affected gene plays a role in an undetermined damage response mechanism that results in elevated spontaneous apoptosis in lymphoid cells and radiosensitivity in fibroblasts.
Genetics and the biologic basis of sarcomas.	Identification of genetic alterations has contributed greatly to the understanding of sarcoma biology. Additionally, detection of these abnormalities is providing new tools for the diagnosis of sarcomas. In this paper, three important new genetic findings from the past year are reviewed, including the t(12;15) translocation of congenital fibrosarcoma, mutation of the putative tumor suppressor gene hSNF5/INI1 in malignant rhabdoid tumor, and the association of c-kit mutations with gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Highlighted are important studies concerning mechanisms of chromosomal translocation, functions of sarcoma-specific fusion proteins, genetic abnormalities other than translocations, molecular diagnosis, and molecular profiling of gene expression. Particular emphasis is placed on information obtained with comparative genomic hybridization and microarray techniques, because these powerful technologies will facilitate the rapid acquisition of data that provide insight into the molecular genetic and biologic basis of sarcomas.
Abortive apoptosis as an initiator of chromosomal translocations.	Apoptosis is a well-recognized regulator of a cell populations size and structure. Irreversible stages of apoptosis lead to activation of different enzymatic cascades, changes in cell morphology and DNA fragmentation. However, little is known about nuclear events which accompany the initial stages of apoptosis. These events are connected with introduction of limited amounts of double strand breaks into genomic DNA, some of which may be subsequently rejoined. We hypothesize here that the initial stages of apoptotic DNA fragmentation may be reversible and connected with the initiation of recombinational events and certain chromosomal translocations. The factors influencing apoptosis reversibility and cell survival after delivery of apoptotic stimuli may provide new insights into mechanisms of lymphocyte development and tumorigenesis.
A case of recurrent congenital fetal anomalies associated with a familial subtelomeric translocation.	The potential of a new fluorescent in situ hybridization technique is discussed, which uses a complete set of telomeric probes to reveal cryptic chromosome rearrangements that remain undetected by standard cytogenetic analysis. We report the obstetric history of a patient who had a termination of pregnancy at 20 weeks for a fetus with multiple congenital anomalies but a normal male karyotype using conventional G-banding analysis on a mid-trimester placental biopsy. In a subsequent pregnancy, a diaphragmatic hernia and intra-uterine growth restriction were detected at 34 weeks' gestation and a fetal blood sample showed a normal female karotype. However, her child was born with dysmorphic features and additional severe abnormalities including microcephaly, anophthalmos and left fixed talipes. The child has shown marked developmental delay. In view of a strong family history of congenital abnormalities and recurrent miscarriage suggestive of a familial translocation, a fluorescent in situ hybridization technique using specific telomeric probes was performed on blood from the affected child and her parents. An unbalanced subtelomeric translocation was detected involving the long arms of chromosomes 2 and 7 in the child and a balanced translocation was detected in her father. Accurate genetic counselling and the opportunity for early prenatal diagnosis can now be offered to this family.
Partial trisomy 13q22-->qter and monosomy 18q21-->qter as a result of familial translocation.	We report on a patient with a partial trisomy of chromosome 13q22-->qter and partial monosomy of chromosome 18q21-->qter showing distinct malformations. The phenotype of this unbalanced karyotype has not been previously described. The proband had a craniofacial dysmorphism, neck pterygium, closed fists with overlapping fingers, cutaneous appendix of the left fist, equinovarus and postaxial hexadactyly of the feet, atrial septum defect, unilateral cryptorchidism and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) the father's karyotype 46,XY.ish t(13;18)(13pter-->13q22::18q21-->18qter; 18pter-->18q21::13q22-->13qter) and the child's 46,XY.ish der(18)(18pter-->18q21::13q22-->13qter)pat were established. The mother's karyotype was normal. A risk of unbalanced offspring in carriers of a balanced reciprocal translocation depends on the length and genetic constitution of the exchanged segments. Risk figures should come only from empirical data. A phenotypically normal child with a balanced or normal karyotype could be born in the case of alternate segregation. Amniocentesis should therefore be recommended in any further pregnancy.
Discrepancy between G and R bands. Example of an acute non-lymphocytic leukemia.	An apparently different chromosome abnormality was observed in unstimulated blood cultures from an acute non-lymphocytic leukemic child: 11q- with G banding techniques and 17q- with R banding techniques. The abnormality is explained as a t(11;17) translocation, and the discrepancy between the G- and R-band patterns discussed.
Partial trisomy 2p due to a familial translocation 2/6. Cytogenetic and clinical case with special reference to ophthalmologic changes]	A translocation 2/6 inherited for 3 generations is described. The propositus, carrier of a partial trisomy 2p, showed multiple morphological anomalies of which microphtalmus and persistance of primary vitreous body were of particular interest. Based on a comparison of this with seven other patients in the literature, the most characteristic clinical symptoms of partial trisomy 2p are concluded to be the following: abundant lanugo at birth, glabella prominence, anteverted nares, dermatoglyphic anomalies, and malformations of the eyes.
A novel chromosomal translocation t(3;5)(q12;p15.3) and loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 22 in a multifocal follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma presenting with skin metastases.	Classic genetic rearrangements in papillary carcinoma of the thyroid involve the RET- or TRK proto-oncogenes. We report a novel chromosomal translocation t(3;5)(q12;p15.3), confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization, in a multifocal follicular variant of a papillary carcinoma of the thyroid in a 79-year-old woman, with skin metastases as a presenting symptom. Three years earlier, another cutaneous metastasis on her scalp was misdiagnosed as hidradenoma. Four tumour foci were recognized in the thyroid, two with a follicular variant of papillary carcinoma. To detect loss of heterozygosity, 14 chromosomes were investigated with 59 microsatellite markers. A clonal relationship was detected between the two foci of tumour in the thyroid gland containing follicular variant of papillary carcinoma and one of the skin lesions tested, all demonstrating loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in the same region of chromosome 22. Based on earlier reports, the low rate of LOH detected is in agreement with the diagnosis papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. Whole body scintigraphy performed after ablative therapy with radioiodine revealed multiple metastases in the lungs and skeleton. After repeated radioiodine therapy, thyroglobulin under thyroxine suppression became undetectable and post-therapeutic scintigraphy revealed important regression of metastases.
Robertsonian translocations--reproductive risks and indications for preimplantation genetic diagnosis.	Robertsonian translocations carry reproductive risks that are dependent on the chromosomes involved and the sex of the carrier. We describe five couples that presented for preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD).
Assisting reproduction of infertile men carrying a Robertsonian translocation.	In order to provide better genetic counselling for Robertsonian translocation carriers, the meiotic segregation of chromosomes 13, 14 and 21 from six infertile (13;14) and (14;21) Robertsonian translocation carriers was examined.
NUP98 gene fusions in hematologic malignancies.	Acute leukemia is associated with a wide spectrum of recurrent, non-random chromosomal translocations. Molecular analysis of the genes involved in these translocations has led to a better understanding of both the causes of chromosomal rearrangements as well as the mechanisms of leukemic transformation. Recently, a number of laboratories have cloned translocations involving the NUP98 gene on chromosome 11p15.5, from patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), and T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). To date, at least eight different chromosomal rearrangements involving NUP98 have been identified. The resultant chimeric transcripts encode fusion proteins that juxtapose the N-terminal GLFG repeats of NUP98 to the C-terminus of the partner gene. Of note, several of these translocations have been found in patients with therapy-related acute myelogenous leukemia (t-AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome (t-MDS), suggesting that genotoxic chemotherapeutic agents may play an important role in generating chromosomal rearrangements involving NUP98.
The JAK2 inhibitor AG490 predominantly abrogates the growth of human B-precursor leukemic cells with 11q23 translocation or Philadelphia chromosome.	The Janus kinase (JAK) family is one of intracellular protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) present in hematopoietic and lymphoid cells and has been shown to play a crucial role in a variety of biological responses. It was reported that a human B-precursor leukemic cell line was potently inhibited in its proliferation by one of synthetic PTK inhibitors (tyrphostins), AG490, via anti-JAK2 activity. However, no extensive studies about it have been performed. In the present study, we tested 16 human lymphoid leukemic cell lines (B-precursor, 12; T cell, four) for their sensitivity to AG490 using 3H-thymidine incorporation and colony formation assays, and found that B-precursor cell lines with 11q23 translocation or Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1) whose JAK2 proved to be constitutively phosphorylated were predominantly sensitive to AG490 at a concentration that has few inhibitory effect on normal hematopoiesis. We first revealed the association of JAK2 with BCR-ABL in Ph1-positive cell lines and with Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) in cell lines with 11q23 translocation by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Of interest, AG490 markedly down-regulated phosphorylation of JAK2, but rather transiently up-regulated phosphorylation of BCR-ABL and BTK, suggesting direct implication of AG490 in the process of the JAK2 dephosphorylation. These results indicate that AG490 exerts a potent inhibitory activity to B-precursor leukemia with specific chromosomal abnormalities, and a therapeutic approach using AG490 is expected.
Translocation t(4; 6)(q21; q27) in a case of primary thrombocythaemia in transformation.	We report a case of primary thrombocythaemia showing a translocation t(4; 6)(q21; q27) five years after diagnosis. The patient had been treated with hydroxyurea. The clinical picture at the time was consistent with transformation. Karyotypic abnormalities are rare in this disease and are reviewed.
Extramedullary T lymphoid blast crisis representing an additional translocation, t(6;8)(q25;q22) in a patient with Philadelphia-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	A patient with extramedullary crisis from chronic myelogenous leukemia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is reported. A pathological neck lymph node observed after transplantation revealed pre-T lymphoblastic phenotype, and the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis showed recipient type sex chromosomes and bcr/abl fusion gene. The cells represented an additional translocation, t(6;8)(q25;q22). No rearrangements of the T-cell receptor (TCR) beta, gamma or delta chain genes were observed. The absence of TCR rearrangement indicated the clonogenic involvement of pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells by Philadelphia chromosome. Bone marrow specimens at that time showed donor type sex chromosomes and no bcr/abl-positive cells by FISH.
Mantle cell lymphoma presenting as a breast mass.	Breast lymphoma accounts for less than 1% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs) and approximately 0.1% of all breast neoplasms. Most breast lymphomas are classified as diffuse large B cell or mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas. The case of a 53 year old woman presenting with a breast mass and found to have mantle cell lymphoma is described. Core biopsy of the breast lesion showed a B cell NHL, probably of large cell type and of high grade. Morphological and immunophenotypic analysis of peripheral blood and bone marrow samples suggested a mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). This was confirmed by the detection of a t(11;14) in the bone marrow aspirate and breast tissue by polymerase chain reaction analysis. There have been no previous reports of an MCL presenting as a breast lump. Because a diagnosis of MCL has prognostic and therapeutic implications, this case highlights the need for an awareness of MCL presenting in this way, and the requirement for specialised investigations in its detection.
Spindle cell lipoma and 13q deletion: diagnostic utility of cytogenetic analysis]	Spindle cell lipomas are rare adipose tissues tumors. Histologically, these lesions are composed of mature adipocytes and spindle cells associated with collagen bundles. Spindle cell lipomas are benign tumors that can be difficult to distinguish from malignant tumors such as spindle cell liposarcomas, myxoid liposarcomas or well-differentiated liposarcomas.
The centromere structure in Robertsonian wheat-rye translocation chromosomes indicates that centric breakage-fusion can occur at different positions within the primary constriction.	Univalent chromosomes at meiotic metaphase I have a tendency to misdivide at the centromeres. Fusion of the misdivision products may produce Robertsonian translocations. The fine structure of the centromeres in Robertsonian wheat-rye translocation chromosomes was analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using two centromere-specific DNA clones: pRCS1, derived from rice, and pAWRC1, derived from rye. Clone pRCS1 hybridizes to the centromeres of all grasses including wheat and rye, whereas clone pAWRC1 is rye specific and hybridizes only to the centromeres of rye. Four of the six wheat-rye translocations derived from a single centric misdivision event (1st generation translocations) had hybrid centromeres, with approximately half of the centromere derived from rye and half from wheat. In the two other 1st generation translocations, the entire centromere was derived from rye. Among eight reconstructed wheat and rye chromosomes that originated from two consecutive centric misdivision-fusion events (2nd generation translocations), T1BS.1BL (derived from T1BS.1RL and T1RS.1BL) and one of three T2BS.2BL (derived from T2RS.2BL and T2BS.2RL) had hybrid centromeres. T1RS.1RL (derived from T1BS.1RL and T1RS.1BL), two of three T2BS.2BL, and all three T2RS.2RL (derived from T2RS.2BL and T2BS.2RL) had rye centromeres. All three 3rd generation translocations had hybrid centromeres with approximately half of the centromere derived from rye. There were no indications that the composite structure of the centromere in these chromosomes affected their behavior in mitosis or meiosis. These observations support the notion of a compound structure of the centromere in higher organisms, and indicate that during the centric breakage-fusion event, centromere breakage may occur in different positions along the segment of the chromosome that interacts with the spindle fibers. Normal behavior of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd generation centric translocations in mitosis and meiosis indicates that, at least in wheat and rye, centromeres are not chromosome specific.
A case of (X;15) translocation diagnosed as a paracentric inversion of Xp: diagnostic revision with FISH.	In 1990 we reported the case of a 17 years old girl with growth retardation, overweight and primary amenorrhea, presenting a de novo chromosomal rearrangement cytogenetically characterized as a paracentric inversion of the short arm of X chromosome. The FISH analyses that were recently performed, revealed that in fact our patient presented a case of unbalanced translocation, 46,X, t(X;15)(p11.2; q15).
Deletion of 2q37 and duplication of 10q24: two cases in the same family and review of the literature.	We describe two patients (first cousins, once removed) with an unusual head shape, high arched palate, flat nasal bridge, abnormal ears, hand and feet abnormalities and other anomalies. The patients were ascertained independently and it was initially unknown that they were related to each other. Cytogenetic and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis identified a der(2)t(2;10)(q37.3;q24.1) unbalanced translocation resulting in loss of 2q37.3-qter and duplication 10q24.1-qter. The clinical features of these two patients are compared with previously described cases of 2q deletion and 10q duplication. These patients also emphasize the difficulty in some families of understanding and sharing genetic information and in the difficulties in obtaining an accurate pedigree in a genetics clinic.
A complex chromosome rearrangement involving chromosome 8, 11, and 12 analyzed by conventional cytogenetic investigations, fluorescence in situ hybridisation, and spectral karyotyping.	We report on a 29-year-old woman with a history of five spontaneous abortions and a balanced complex chromosome rearrangement (CCR) involving break points between chromosomes 8, 11, and 12. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) in combination with giemsa trypsin banding techniques were essential for the identification of the breakpoints. In addition, the results were confirmed by 24-colour FISH using the spectral karyotyping system (SKY). The karyotype was 46,XX,t(8;11;12)(8qter-->8p10::12p10-->12pter;11pter--> 11q14::8p10-->8pter;12qter-->12p10::11q14-->11qter). Application of SKY facilitated detection of all three chromosomes involved and supported the localisation of the breakpoints by a single time and sample saving investigation.
Cytogenetics of neuroblastoma: a study using fine needle aspiration cultures.	Neuroblastoma is associated with chromosomal aberrations of 1p and 1q in a majority of cases. Some nonrandom secondary changes were observed in this study. The role of these changes in the development and progression of neuroblastoma is examined. Chromosomal analysis was performed on 33 children with neuroblastoma using fine needle aspiration cultures. Metaphases were observed in 57.5% of cases. 86.6% showed the involvement of chromosome 1. Double minutes and unidentifiable markers was also observed. The most frequent secondary changes included add(4)(q35), add(11)(p13), add(14)(q32), add(16)(q12). add(17)(p13), add(19)(q12) and add(21)(q22). Minority of cases showed deletions and translocations. Ploidy pattern ranged from diploid to hypotetraploid. The present study substantiates aberration of chromosome 1 in the form of deletions, additions, duplications and iso-chromosome with some notable secondary abnormalities.
Molecular cytogenetic characterization of acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes with multiple chromosome rearrangements.	Multiple chromosome rearrangements (MCRs) are found in 5-10% of newly diagnosed patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 15-30% of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). However, the initial causes of MCRs and the molecular mechanisms involved are largely unresolved. Nor are the karyotypic patterns well studied, mainly because of the difficulties of obtaining complete karyotypes by G-banding. In this study, we applied spectral karyotyping (SKY) and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) to investigate further the resulting chromosome imbalances and rearrangements in AML and MDS bone marrow cells with MCRs.
Chromosomal G-dark bands determine the spatial organization of centromeric heterochromatin in the nucleus.	Gene expression can be silenced by proximity to heterochromatin blocks containing centromeric alpha-satellite DNA. This has been shown experimentally through cis-acting chromosome rearrangements resulting in linear genomic proximity, or through trans-acting changes resulting in intranuclear spatial proximity. Although it has long been been established that centromeres are nonrandomly distributed during interphase, little is known of what determines the three-dimensional organization of these silencing domains in the nucleus. Here, we propose a model that predicts the intranuclear positioning of centromeric heterochromatin for each individual chromosome. With the use of fluorescence in situ hybridization and confocal microscopy, we show that the distribution of centromeric alpha-satellite DNA in human lymphoid cells synchronized at G(0)/G(1) is unique for most individual chromosomes. Regression analysis reveals a tight correlation between nuclear distribution of centromeric alpha-satellite DNA and the presence of G-dark bands in the corresponding chromosome. Centromeres surrounded by G-dark bands are preferentially located at the nuclear periphery, whereas centromeres of chromosomes with a lower content of G-dark bands tend to be localized at the nucleolus. Consistent with the model, a t(11; 14) translocation that removes G-dark bands from chromosome 11 causes a repositioning of the centromere, which becomes less frequently localized at the nuclear periphery and more frequently associated with the nucleolus. The data suggest that "chromosomal environment" plays a key role in the intranuclear organization of centromeric heterochromatin. Our model further predicts that facultative heterochromatinization of distinct genomic regions may contribute to cell-type specific patterns of centromere localization.
Immunophenotypic profile and FISH analysis in a case of Ewing's sarcoma.	Ewing's sarcoma arising in the right fibula was diagnosed in a 12 years old female, considering clinical presentation, radiological findings and histological features. Our work points towards a possible neuroectodermal origin of Ewing's sarcoma, since MIC2/12E7 marker was found to be positive. Translocation t (11;22) (q24;q12) was found as the main cytogenetic change in this tumor, by means of FISH analysis.
Structure of AF3p21, a new member of mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) fusion partner proteins-implication for MLL-induced leukemogenesis.	The Mixed Lineage Leukemia (MLL) gene is frequently rearranged in leukemia, especially in infantile leukemia and therapy-related leukemia. The MLL gene is localized at chromosome 11q23, and is involved in almost all of the chromosomal translocations involving 11q23. Twenty-four fusion partner genes have been identified to date, and the N-terminus of MLL fuses in-frame to the partner genes in all cases. Some of the MLL fusion partner genes encode transcription factors; others encode small GTP binding protein interacting molecules or cytoplasmic proteins, the functions of which are presently unknown. As a result of the diverse features of the MLL fusion partners, the underlying mechanism for leukemogenesis remains obscure. We cloned the MLL fusion partner gene from leukemic cells from a therapy-related leukemia patient with t(3;11)(p21;q23) and designated the gene AF3p21. This patient had a long latency period (9 years) before developing secondary leukemia. The AF3p21 gene encodes a nuclear protein with a molecular mass of 80 kDa, and this protein has SH3 and proline-rich domains. Among MLL fusion partners identified to date, only AF10 and AF17 have a homo-oligomerization domain. AF3p21 also has a homo-oligomerization domain, which was revealed by using a mammalian two-hybrid system. These results suggest that one possible role of the MLL fusion partners is to form an oligomer of truncated MLL. In this review, current knowledge about MLL-involved leukemogenesis is outlined.
Quantitative detection of AML1-ETO rearrangement by real-time RT-PCR using fluorescently labeled probes.	The persistence of the AML1-ETO rearrangement performed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) has been reported in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients in long-term complete remission (CR). This persistence, which is not associated with hematological relapse, limits the clinical use of qualitative RT-PCR. Here, we present a new quantitative real-time PCR method to detect AML1-ETO rearrangement using fluorescently labeled probes. Quantitative detection of AML1-ETO was performed in capillary tubes using two fluorescently labeled probes in the LightCycler equipment. The reliability of the method was checked in twenty-two bone marrow samples and one apheresis sample from eight patients with t(8;21) collected at diagnosis and during follow-up assessment. The regression coefficients obtained for standard curves of AML1-ETO and AML were all greater than 0.98. The sensitivity attained allowed the detection of rearrangements at a dilution of 10(-5) Kasumi-1 cDNA. The intra-assay coefficient of variation was 4% for AML1-ETO, and 7% for AML. The inter-assay coefficient of variation was 19% for AML1-ETO and 12% for AML. A log reduction from two to four in the AML1-ETO/AML ratio was evident after CR. The study of the method and first results obtained in patient samples support that quantitative real-time PCR with hybridization probes is a new reliable and sensitive method to monitor minimal residual disease in AML patients. Moreover, the fluorescent probes with the Light-Cycler technology offer the advantage of a rapid detection.
Establishment of CD7+ human myeloma sister cell lines, KMS-21-PE and KMS-21-BM, carrying t(11;14) and t(8;14).	Two new human myeloma cell lines were established from pleural effusion and bone marrow malignant cells derived from a single patient, who manifested hyperammonemia associated with multiple myeloma, and these were characterized. Both lines possess t(11;14)(q13;q32) and t(8;14)(q24;q32) reciprocal translocations and overexpress cyclin D1, but not c-myc. Human myeloma lines including these new lines produced and secreted excess ammonia into culture medium more than non-myelomatous hematological cell lines. In addition, these two lines were revealed to have high surface CD7 expression correlated with relatively high mRNA expression by MP-RT-PCR. Among 8 human myeloma lines, half of them revealed significant surface expression of CD7 and a positive correlation between expression levels of protein and message. CD7 message was also detected in surface negative lines. Consequently, there may be posttranslational regulation of the CD7 molecule, whose cellular biological role in expressing cells has not been elucidated.
Rearrangements of bcl-1, bcl-2, bcl-6, and c-myc in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas.	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBL) is characterized by a marked degree of morphologic and clinical heterogeneity. We studied 137 patients with de novo DLBL for rearrangements of the bcl-1, bcl-2, bcl-6 and c-myc oncogenes by Southern blot analysis. Structural alterations of bcl-1, bcl-2, bcl-6, and c-myc were detected in 21 of 137 (15.3%), 8 of 137 (5.8%), 22 of 137 (16.1%), 14 of 137 (10.2%) patients, respectively. Two cases showed a combination of bcl-1 and bcl-6 rearrangements. Chromosomal analysis was performed in 31 cases of the 137 DLBL. 27 of these showed karyotypic abnormalities, and two had translocations 3q27 involving bcl-6. However, one of two cases had no rearrangement of bcl-6. Patients with rearranged bcl-6 and c-myc tended to have poorer survival than patients with germ-line. Furthermore, bcl-1 and bcl-2 rearrangements tended to have a better outcome, although the above differences were not statistically significant. Rearrangements of the bcl-1, 2, 6, and c-myc gene correlated with the clinical outcome in DLBL and may thus serve as prognostic markers in patients with this form of malignant lymphoma. However, other genetic factors are probably involved in determining prognosis.
Multiple granulocytic sarcomas in acute myeloblastic leukemia with simultaneous occurrence of t(8:21) and trisomy 8.	This report describes a rare case of multiple intracranial, extradural chloromas. A five year old African American male presented with headache, fever, and vomiting. The peripheral blood smear showed myeloblasts with Auer rods. The CTscan of the brain showed three intracranial, epidural lesions as well as soft tissue masses in the retroorbital region and sphenoid sinuses. CTscan of the chest showed two paraspinal epidural thoracic masses. Pathology of the epidural intracranial mass revealed a granulocytic sarcoma. Cytogenetic analysis showed simultaneous occurrence of t(8;21) and trisomy 8. Following induction therapy, he is now in complete remission.
Persistence of transcriptionally silent BCR-ABL rearrangements in chronic myeloid leukemia patients in sustained complete cytogenetic remission.	Persistence of BCR-ABL rearrangements was demonstrated by D-FISH technique in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients in complete cytogenetic response (CCR) after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or interferon-alpha therapy (IFN-alpha). Samples from bone marrow aspirate or peripheral blood or both were analyzed by conventional cytogenetics, Southern blot, fluorescent interphase in situ hybridization (FISH), and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (Q-RT-PCR). In all patients, FISH detected 1% to 12% nuclei with a BCR-ABL fusion gene, whereas Q-RT-PCR were negative or weakly positive. Based on these results, we hypothesize that the BCR-ABL genomic rearrangement remains unexpressed in a small percentage of cells whatever the treatment (IFN-alpha or BMT), and this in spite of the negativity of the RT-PCR-based classical molecular remission criterion. These data corroborate those obtained by other investigators and point to the need for follow-up of CML patients in CCR over an extensive period, at the DNA level to evaluate the residual disease and at the RNA level (Q-RT-PCR) to estimate the risk of relapse and guide the therapeutic decision. Experimental models suggesting the persistence of positive BCR-ABL cells are discussed and tentative explanations of tumor "dormancy" are proposed.
Rearrangements of the c-myc oncogene are present in 15% of primary human multiple myeloma tumors.	Rearrangements of the c-myc oncogene have been found in most plasmacytomas induced in mice and human myeloma cell lines (HMCLs) analyzed so far. However, neither induced mouse plasmacytomas nor HMCLs represent relevant models for human multiple myeloma (MM). To evaluate the incidence of c-myc rearrangements in human plasma cell dyscrasias, sets of probes were generated to allow direct assessment of c-myc translocations on interphase plasma cells by using fluorescence in situ hybridization. After validation of these probes, a large cohort of patients with either newly diagnosed MM (n = 529), relapsed MM (n = 58), primary plasma cell leukemia (PCL; n = 23), monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (n = 65), or smoldering MM (n = 24) were analyzed. C-myc rearrangements were identified in 15% of patients with MM or primary PCL, independently of the stage of the disease (ie, diagnosis or relapse and MM or primary PCL). Analysis of the 2 main translocations observed on karyotyping, ie, t(8;14) and t(8;22), revealed that these specific translocations represented only 25% (23 of 91) of c-myc rearrangements. c-myc rearrangements were then correlated with several other patients' characteristics: illegitimate IgH recombinations, chromosome 13 deletions, and serum beta2-microglobulin levels. The only significant correlation was with a high beta2-microglobulin level (P =.002), although a trend for association with t(4;14) was observed (P =.08). Thus, c-myc rearrangement analysis in patients with MM revealed a strikingly lower incidence than that in HMCLs and plasmacytomas induced in mice, indicating that data obtained with these models cannot be directly extrapolated to human MM.
Delayed replication timing leads to delayed mitotic chromosome condensation and chromosomal instability of chromosome translocations.	Chromosomal rearrangements are found in virtually all types of human cancers. We show that certain chromosome translocations display a delay in mitotic chromosome condensation that is associated with a delay in the mitosis-specific phosphorylation of histone H3. This delay in mitotic condensation is preceded by a delay in both the initiation as well as the completion of chromosome replication. In addition, chromosomes with this phenotype participate in numerous secondary translocations and rearrangements. Chromosomes with this phenotype were detected in five of seven tumor-derived cell lines and in five of thirteen primary tumor samples. These data suggest that certain chromosomal rearrangements found in tumor cells cause a significant delay in replication timing of the entire chromosome that subsequently results in delayed mitotic chromosome condensation and ultimately in chromosomal instability.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia, hypogranular variant, with uncharacteristic staining with chloroacetate esterase.	A diagnosis of the hypogranular variant of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APLv) may be difficult to establish based on cytomorphology alone. However, the great majority of cases have a classical immunophenotype by flow cytometric immunophenotyping (FCI) (CD13+, CD33+, dim CD64+, HLA-DR-, and CD34-) and a classical enzyme cytochemical (EC) staining pattern. [intensely staining with myeloperoxidase, Sudan Black B, and chloroacetate esterase (CAE) and negative with alpha'-naphthyl acetate and butyrate esterases]. Although the immunophenotype of APLv by FCI has varied in the literature (HLA-DR +/- and CD34 +/-), the EC staining pattern has remained constant. We report a case of APLv with characteristic cytomorphology, compatible FCI data (CD13+, CD33+, dim CD64+, HLA-DR +/-, and CD34-), chromosomal detection of t(15; 17), and molecular detection of the PML/RAR alpha fusion gene; however, staining of the leukemic cells with CAE was quite uncharacteristic. We describe our findings.
t(8;21;8)(p23;q22;q22): a new variant form of t(8;21) translocation in acute myeloblastic leukemia with maturation.	The complex variants of t(8;21) involving chromosomes 8 and 21 as well as a variable chromosome account for 1.1-5% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. This paper reports a case of AML-M2 with t(8;21;8) translocation for the first time. The patient was a female, aged 47 years. Her myelogram was compatible with AML-M2. Chromosome study using R-banding technique revealed a karyotype 46, XX, t(8;8)(p23;q22). Dual-color FISH assay with two probes P1 164(green signal) and YAC 225B8 (red signal) both of which closely located on the 8q showed that one yellow signal consisting of a green signal and a red signal and one red signal appeared on the long and the short arm of the same der(8) chromosome, respectively, further confirming this translocation occurred between both homologous chromosomes 8. RT-PCR analysis detected the AML1/ETO fusion transcript in our patient, thus indicating that this chromosomal aberration was, in fact, a complex three-way rearrangement t(8;21;8)(p23;q22;q22). In conclusion, combining conventional karyotype, FISH or RT-PCR analyses is a rational strategy for identification of the complex variants of t(8;21) translocation.
Submicroscopic terminal deletions and duplications in retarded patients with unclassified malformation syndromes.	Unbalanced submicroscopic subtelomeric chromosomal rearrangements represent a significant cause of unexplained moderate to severe mental retardation with and without phenotypic abnormalities. We investigated 254 patients (102 from Zrich, 152 from Lige) for unbalanced subtelomeric rearrangements by using fluorescence in situ hybridisation with probes mapping to 41 subtelomeric regions. Mental retardation combined with a pattern of dysmorphic features, with or without major malformations, and growth retardation and a normal karyotype by conventional G-banding were the criteria of inclusion. Selection criteria were more restrictive for the Zrich series in terms of clinical and cytogenetic pre-investigation. We found 13 unbalanced rearrangements and two further aberrations, which, following the investigation of other family members, had to be considered as variants without influence on the phenotype. The significant aberrations included three de novo deletions (two of 1pter, one of 5pter), three de novo duplications (8pter, 9pter, Xpter), one de novo deletion 13qter-duplication 4qter, and five familial submicroscopic translocations [(1q;18p), (2q;4p), (2p;7q), (3p;22q), (4q;10q), (12p;22q)], most of them with several unbalanced offspring with deletion-duplication. Although the incidence of abnormal results was higher (10/152) in the Lige versus the Zrich series (3/102), similar selection criteria in Zrich as in Lige would have resulted in an incidence of 7/106 and thus similar figures. In our series, submicroscopic unbalanced rearrangements explain the phenotype in 13/254 study probands. The most important selection criterion seems to be the presence of more than one affected member in a family. An examination of subtelomeric segments should be included in the diagnostic work-up of patients with unexplained mental retardation combined with physical abnormalities, when a careful conventional examination of banded chromosomes has yielded a normal result and a thorough clinical examination does not lead to another classification. The proportion of abnormal findings depends strongly on selection criteria: more stringent selection can eliminate some examinations but necessitates a high workload for experienced clinical geneticists. Once the costs and workload of screening are reduced, less selective approaches might finally be more cost-effective.
Absence of correlation between late-replication and spreading of X inactivation in an X;autosome translocation.	We have analysed the spread of X inactivation in an individual with an unbalanced 46,X,der(X)t(X;10)(q26.3;q23.3) karyotype. Despite being trisomic for the region 10q23.3-qter, both the proband and her aunt with the same karyotype presented only with secondary amenorrhoea and lacked any features normally associated with trisomy of distal 10q. Cytogenetic and molecular studies showed that the derivative X;10 chromosome was exclusively inactive. Transcribed polymorphisms were identified in five genes contained within the translocated region of chromosome 10 and were used to perform allele-specific transcription studies. We showed that four of the genes studied are inactive on the derivative chromosome, directly demonstrating the spread of X inactivation over some 30 Mb of autosomal DNA. However, the most distal gene examined remained active, indicating that this spreading was incomplete. In contrast to the gene expression data, replication timing studies showed no spreading of late replication into the translocated portion of 10q. We conclude that silencing of autosomal genes by X inactivation can occur without a delay in the replication timing of the surrounding chromatin. Our findings support the hypothesis that autosomal chromatin lacks certain features present on the X chromosome that are required for the effective spread and/or maintenance of X inactivation.
Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) in the diagnosis of acute childhood lymphatic leukemia (ALL)]	Classical cytogenetic analysis plays an important role in the diagnosis, classification, therapy monitoring and prognosis of patients with leukemia. Many recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities with major prognostic values have been described in childhood ALL. Hyperdiploidy and/or t(12;21) are associated with good prognosis, whereas t(9;22) and/or rearrangements of MLL gene correlate with poor outcome and therefore early detection of these abnormalities is very important. FISH can overcome some limitations of conventional cytogenetic and molecular-genetic analyses and due to high sensitivity specific chromosomal aberrations in mitoses and/or interphase nuclei can be detected. In the Center of Oncocytogenetics of the 3rd Medical Department for assessment of hyperdiploidy and structural rearrangements we use double-color FISH with centromeric and/or locus-specific probes and complex aberrations are ascertained by whole chromosome painting probes and multicolor FISH. Among 275 children with ALL examined during the last 8 years by different FISH methods we found seven patients with translocation t(9;22) and 14 patients with MLL rearrangements in bone marrow cells. Since 1988 we focus on detection of hyperdiploidy and/or t(12;21). High hyperdiploidy was found in 35 children, 10 of them had further complex rearrangements. Translocation t(12;21) was proved in 37 patients and complex rearrangements were found in 22 of them. FISH, cytogenetic and molecular-genetic analyses become obligatory for the first diagnostic examination as well as for monitoring of treatment effect in children with ALL.
Molecular, cytogenetic and genetic abnormalities in MDS and secondary AML.	Myelodysplasia (MDS) is a clonal disease, which increases with age, suggesting that multiple steps are required for the evolution of the condition. Approximately 30% of MDS evolve into acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). In this review, we intend to delineate the genetic events, which may drive this sequence and therefore we will focus primarily on cytogenetic abnormalities where the genes have been identified and oncogenes and suppressor genes that have been implicated. In terms of the biological mechanisms, which characterise this process, it is generally thought that the MDS cell has impaired differentiation, and has increased apoptosis. As the disease progresses in addition, the cells have increased proliferation. As the disease evolves, the population of cells, which predominate remain immature, have decreased apoptosis and in many cases, upregulate anti-apoptotic genes and have deregulated proliferation as the number of blast cells increase. Etiological factors, which contribute to the development of leukemia, include therapeutic agents administered for a primary malignancy. The cytogenetic abnormalities, predisposition factors and genes involved in secondary leukemia will also be reviewed.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors induce caspase-dependent apoptosis and downregulation of daxx in acute promyelocytic leukaemia with t(15;17).	Histone deacetylase (HDAC) appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) as it is recruited by both PML-RARalpha and PLZF/RAR alpha in leukaemic cells with t(15;17) and t(11;17) respectively. Recent studies have demonstrated that HDAC inhibitors can be therapeutically used in various neoplastic disorders including APL. Cell differentiation was considered the major mechanism of the anti-leukaemic effects of HDAC inhibitors in APL. However, most of these studies either evaluated the effect of HDAC inhibitors in combination with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or focused on the less common form of APL with t(11;17). To investigate the cellular effects of HDAC inhibitors, including sodium butyrate, trichostatin A, and suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), we used two APL cell lines, NB4 and the ATRA-resistant derivative NB4.306. Moreover, primary cells from five patients with cytogenetic evidence for t(15;17) were also studied. Our results demonstrated that HDAC inhibitors induce distinct caspase-dependent apoptosis in APL, which showed both concentration-and time-dependence. In addition, changes in the apoptosis-regulatory proteins, daxx, bcl-2 and bax were analysed. HDAC inhibitors induced downregulation of daxx, but no significant changes were detected in bcl-2 or bax. In conclusion, apoptosis induced by HDAC inhibitors in APL could provide an effective strategy for treatment of patients with t(15;17).
Orchestration of multiple arrays of signal cross-talk and combinatorial interactions for maturation and cell death: another vision of t(15;17) preleukemic blast and APL-cell maturation.	Despite intensive molecular biology investigations over the past 10 years, and an important breakthrough on how PML-RARalpha, the fusion protein resulting from t(15;17), can alter RARalpha and PML functions, no definitive views on how leukemia is generated and by what mechanism(s) the normal phenotype is restored, are yet available. 'Resistances' to pharmacological levels of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) have been observed in experimental in vivo and in vitro models. In this review, we emphasize the key role played by signal cross-talk for both normal and neoplastic hemopoiesis. After an overview of reported experimental data on APL-cell maturation and apoptosis, we apply our current knowledge on signaling pathways to underline those which might generate signal cross-talks. The design of biological models suitable to decipher the integration of signal cross-talks at the transcriptional level should be our first priority today, to generate some realistic therapeutic approaches After 'Ten Years of Molecular APL', we still know very little about how the disease develops and how effective medicines work.
Transcriptional regulation in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	It has been 10 years since the seminal discovery that a mutant form of a retinoid acid receptor (RARalpha) is associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). This finding, coupled with the remarkable success of retinoic acid (RA), the natural ligand of RARalpha, in the treatment of APL, has made APL a unique model system in the study of oncogenic conversion of transcription factors in hematological malignancies. Indeed, subsequent basic and clinical studies showed that chromosomal translocation involving the RARalpha gene is the cytogenetic hallmark of APL and that these mutant forms of RARs are the oncogenes in APL that interfere with the proliferation and differentiation pathways controlled by both RAR and their fusion partners. However, it was not until recently that the role of aberrant transcriptional regulation in the pathogenesis of APL was revealed. In this review, we summarize the biochemical and biological mechanisms of transcriptional regulation by mutant RARs and their corresponding wild-type fusion partner PML and PLZF. These studies have been instrumental in our understanding of the process of leukemogenesis in general and have laid the scientific foundation for the novel concept of transcription therapy in the treatment of human cancer.
The theory of APL.	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is associated with reciprocal and balanced chromosomal translocations always involving the Retinoic Acid Receptor alpha (RARalpha) gene on chromosome 17 and variable partner genes (X genes) on distinct chromosomes. RARalpha fuses to the PML gene in the vast majority of APL cases, and in a few cases to the PLZF, NPM, NuMA and STAT5b genes. As a consequence, X-RARalpha and RARalpha-X fusion genes are generated encoding aberrant fusion proteins that can interfere with X and/or RARalpha function. Here we will review the relevant conclusions and the open questions that stem from a decade of in vivo analysis of APL pathogenesis in the mouse in transgenic and knock-out models.
Leukemic mantle cell lymphoma: clinical and pathologic spectrum of twenty-three cases.	Twenty-three patients with marked leukemic involvement by mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) are described. Each patient had an absolute lymphocyte count more than 10 x 10(9)/L. The diagnosis of MCL was supported by compatible immunophenotypic findings and the t(11;14)(q13;q32) in all cases. Morphologically, these cases exhibited a spectrum of findings that we divided into two groups using a cutoff of 20% large or blastoid cells (log rank test, P =.004). Patients with small-cell (<20%) morphologic features survived longer than patients with large/blastoid (> or =20%) morphologic features, (P =.003, log rank test). The most common additional karyotypic abnormality identified in this study involved chromosome 17, in 13 of 23 (56.5%) cases, which correlated with p53 overexpression but not with cytologic features. We conclude that cytologic features of MCL predict the prognosis of patients with marked leukemic involvement. Chromosome 17 abnormalities are common in leukemic MCL, may be involved in pathogenesis, and are associated with p53 expression.
Angiotropic lymphoma: an immunophenotypically and clinically heterogeneous lymphoma.	Angiotropic lymphoma (AL) is an uncommon lymphoma often presenting with nonspecific clinical features and having a high mortality rate. Although not specifically recognized by the Revised European-American Classification of Lymphoid Neoplasms, it likely will appear as a subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in the upcoming WHO classification. Some authors may also consider it to be a subtype of cutaneous lymphomas. Recent studies have reported an immunophenotypic heterogeneity of AL, and in rare instances, an association with other NHL. To further characterize AL, we studied the immunophenotype by immunohistochemistry for CD5, CD10, CD20, bcl-2, and bcl-6 in 18 cases of B-cell AL identified at three medical centers in North America. Bcl-2 gene rearrangement status by polymerase chain reaction and Epstein Barr virus status by in situ hybridization also were evaluated. Eight men and 10 women were identified with AL (median age 71 years). Eleven patients were diagnosed in life and seven were diagnosed at autopsy. Neurologic symptoms were the most common presentation, seen in six patients. Skin was the most commonly biopsied site. All showed classic intravascular localization; in two cases, there was also a minor diffuse large cell lymphoma component observed in some organs. Most (89%) of the cases expressed bcl-2 protein; CD10, bcl-6 and CD5 were each expressed in 22% of cases. Based on CD5 and CD10 expression, three major groups were evident: CD5-, CD10- (11 cases); CD5+, CD10- (3 cases), and CD5-, CD10+ (3 cases). Even though a follicle center lymphoma preceded the AL in one patient, we did not detect bcl-2 gene rearrangement in any of these cases. All cases were negative for Epstein Barr virus. Of the five treated with chemotherapy, two achieved a complete remission. Based on these findings, we conclude that ALs are clinically and immunophenotypically heterogeneous and may represent more than one pathogenetic entity. In some instances AL may be preceded by another lymphoproliferative disorder, raising the possibility that some cases of AL may represent a transformation from another type of lymphoma. Cutaneous manifestations of AL are common; however, it appears to be a systemic lymphoma. Although often fatal, patients with AL who are diagnosed early and treated with chemotherapy may achieve remission.
Marginal-zone B-cell lymphoma of extranodal mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue type: molecular genetics provides new insights into pathogenesis.	Marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of extranodal mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) type is recognized as a distinct clinicopathologic entity in the revised European-American lymphoma (REAL) and recently published World Health Organization (WHO) classifications. These neoplasms are thought to arise from the extranodal equivalent of the lymph node marginal zone. Two recurrent chromosomal translocations, to date, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of these neoplasms. The t(11;18)(q21;q21), which is far more common, disrupts the api2 gene on chromosome 11q21 and the malt1 (mlt) gene on chromosome 18q21, resulting in the synthesis of a novel fusion gene and protein, API2-MALT1. The t(1;14)(p22;q32), which is uncommon, juxtaposes the bcl-10 gene on chromosome 1p22 adjacent to the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene on chromosome 14, wherein BCL10 is overexpressed via the influence of the IgH enhancer. BCL-10 may then form a complex with MALT1 in the cell. Both translocations result in increased inhibition of apoptosis, conferring a survival advantage. Recent work suggests that API2-MALT1 and BCL-10-MALT1 may activate NF-kB and a common downstream signaling pathway.
Weekly x 4 induction therapy with the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab: effect on circulating t(14;18)(+) follicular lymphoma cells.	Rituximab 375 mg/m(2) weekly x 4 has been reported to induce a 60% response rate in patients with relapsed follicular lymphomas (FL). Our aim was to examine the effect of this rituximab schedule on circulating FL cells in an ongoing multicenter study. One hundred fifty-four patients with FL were examined by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at baseline for the presence of t(14;18) translocation-carrying lymphoma cells in bone marrow and/or blood. Sixty-four patients (42%) had PCR-detectable t(14;18)(+) FL cells. Pretreatment characteristics of these 64 patients were as follows: one had stage I, nine had stage II, 14 had stage III, and 40 had stage IV disease. Thirty-five patients had bulky disease (> or = 5 cm) and 25 patients had an elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level. Bone marrow was morphologically assessed in 64 patients, and 39 of these patients had an infiltration with FL cells. Blood samples from 51 patients were available for PCR analysis between weeks 8-12 after induction therapy, and 28 of these patients (55%) were PCR negative. Paired blood and bone marrow samples were available for PCR analysis from 39 patients between weeks 8-12 after induction therapy with rituximab. Thirteen of these patients (33%) did not have PCR-detectable cells in blood and bone marrow, while 26 patients (67%) still had circulating t(14;18)(+) cells in either bone marrow (eight patients), blood (one patient), or both (17 patients). PCR negativity in blood and bone marrow in 13 patients was statistically significantly associated with partial or complete response after induction therapy with rituximab (P = 0.006). However, clearance of PCR-detectable t(14;18)(+) cells in bone marrow and/or blood could not be associated with any low tumor burden pretreatment characteristics such as stages I/II, absence of morphological bone marrow infiltration or tumor bulk of > or = 5 cm, and normal serum LDH.
Primary systemic anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (CD30+): advances in biology and current therapeutic approaches.	In 1985, Stein et al demonstrated the expression of the lymphoid activation antigen CD30/Ki by neoplastic cells. Fifteen years after the first description, anaplastic large-cell lymphomas (ALCL) are now thought to be a heterogeneous group in terms of their clinical, morphologic, phenotypic, cytogenetic, and molecular biology features. However, on the basis of a specific genetic anomaly and expression of a chimeric nucleophosmin anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK) protein and its variants, a distinct clinicopathologic entity defined as "ALK-positive lymphoma" or "ALKoma" can be recognized. Based on molecular and clinical criteria, 3 entities of primary ALCL can be identified: primary systemic ALK positive, primary systemic ALK negative, and primary cutaneous ALCL. This review focuses on advances in the knowledge of primary systemic ALCL biology and discusses therapeutic approaches based on ALK expression. The presence of this protein appears to be an important prognostic factor and, combined with an age-adjusted International Prognostic Index, could allow researchers to design more specific clinical trials aimed at finding new, more efficacious and less toxic treatments.
Molecular aspects of B-cell lymphomas of the gastrointestinal tract.	The B-cell lymphomas of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract have represented a field of extensive research ever since a close association was shown with such chronic inflammatory processes as Helicobacter pylori infection. Evidence suggested that the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue induced by inflammation and autoimmune processes is the environment that gives rise to the small-cell lymphomas of the GI tract (eg, extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma according to Revised European-American Classification of Lymphoid Neoplasms and the World Health Organization Classification of Neoplastic Diseases of the Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissue). The small B-cell lymphoma may then progress to highly malignant variants. The B-cell lymphomas of the GI tract may present a stepwise model for lymphomagenesis and progression. This review covers molecular biology and molecular cytogenetic aspects that lead to new insights into the biology of GI lymphomas and potential prognostic factors.
Multiple genetic changes are associated with mammary tumorigenesis in Brca1 conditional knockout mice.	Germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene BRCA1 predispose women to breast cancer, however somatic mutations in the gene are rarely detected in sporadic cancers. To understand this phenomenon, we examined mouse models carrying conditional disruption of Brca1 in mammary epithelium in either p53 wild type (wt) or heterozygous backgrounds. Although a p53(+/-) mutation significantly accelerated tumorigenesis, both strains developed mammary tumors in a stochastic fashion, suggesting that multiple factors, in addition to p53 mutations, may be involved in Brca1 related tumorigenesis. A unique feature of Brca1 mammary tumors is their highly diverse histopathology accompanied by severe chromosome abnormalities. The tumors also display extensive genetic/molecular alterations, including overexpression of ErbB2, c-Myc, p27 and Cyclin D1 in the majority of tumors, while they were virtually ERalpha and p16 negative. Translocations involving p53 were also identified which lead to abnormal RNA and protein products. In addition, we generated cell lines from mammary tumors and found that the cells retained many of the genetic changes found in the primary tumors, suggesting that these genes may be players in Brca1-associated tumorigenesis. Despite their distinct morphology, all cultured tumor cells were Tamoxifen resistant but highly sensitive to Doxorubicin or gamma-irradiation, suggesting that these methods would be effective in treatment of this disease.
Molecular basis of mature T-cell leukemia.	T-cell chronic lymphocytic/prolymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL/T-PLL) is a lymphoproliferative disease derived from immunocompetent post-thymic T cells. Activation (initiation of expression) of the TCL1 locus at chromosome 14q32.1 appears to be the causal event in the pathogenesis of these mature T-cell leukemias. This activation occurs as a result of translocations or inversions that cause rearrangement of the TCL1 (T-cell leukemia/lymphoma 1) locus with regulatory elements of T-cell receptor genes. To describe the molecular events that take part in the leukemogenesis of mature T-cell leukemias, we reviewed the literature and our own data on the molecular basis of mature T-cell leukemia. This data search revealed that 4 genes have been identified at the TCL1 locus: TCL1, TCL1b, TNG1, and TNG2. The expression of these genes is substantially increased following rearrangements involving 14q32.1. Functional analysis of the Tcl1 protein revealed its involvement in an Akt (protein kinase B) prosurvival pathway through its interaction with the Akt kinase, which promotes translocation of Akt to the nucleus and increases Akt's enzymatic activity. The available data provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms of T-cell leukemogenesis that may lead to the development of new drugs for treatment of mature T-cell leukemia.
Generation of dendritic cells from leukaemia cells of a patient with acute promyelocytic leukaemia by culture with GM-CSF, IL-4 and TNF-alpha.	Dendritic cells are potent antigen-presenting cells derived from CD34+ haemopoietic stem cells. Dendritic cells have been reported to be generated from cells in granulocytic lineage as well as monocytes, blood dendritic cell precursors and lymphoid progenitors. In order to explore the differentiation pathway of dendritic cells from granulocytic cells and the applicability of leukaemia-derived dendritic cells for anti-leukaemic immunotherapy in acute leukaemia of granulocytic origin, we tried to generate dendritic cells from leukaemia cells of a patient with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). Leukaemia cells were cultured with GM-CSF, IL-4 and TNF-alpha for 10 days. Azurophilic granule-containing cells with marked cytoplasmic projections were generated in the culture. FACS analysis of these cultured cells revealed the generation of CD1a+, CD83+, CD80+, CD86+, CD40+ and HLA-DR+ cells. The leukaemic origin of these dendritic-like cells was demonstrated by in situ hybridization of magnetic-bead-sorted CD1a+ dendritic cells using the DNA probes of t(15;17). Cells generated by culturing leukaemia cells were demonstrated to have a potent antigen-presenting function in allogeneic mixed leucocyte cultures. These findings show the plausibility of the previously reported pathway of dendritic cell maturation through granulocytic cells and suggest the possibility of anti-leukaemic immunotherapy using leukaemia-derived dendritic cells even in patients with acute promyelocytic leukaemia.
Translocation breakpoint in two unrelated Tourette syndrome cases, within a region previously linked to the disorder.	Tourette syndrome (TS) is a complex neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by both motor and vocal tics. The etiology of TS is poorly understood; however, evidence of genetic transmission arises from family and twin studies. A complex mode of inheritance has been suggested, likely involving contributions of several genes with different effect size. We describe here two unrelated families wherein balanced t(6;8) chromosomal translocations occur in individuals diagnosed with TS. In one of these families, the transmission of the translocation is associated with learning and behavioral difficulties; in the other family, one parent is unaffected and the other cannot be traced, thus transmission cannot be demonstrated and it is possible that the translocation may have occurred de novo. The breakpoint on chromosome 8 occurs within the q13 band in both families, suggesting that a gene or genes in this region might contribute to the TS phenotype. Existing linkage and cytogenetic data, suggesting involvement of chromosome 8 in TS families and individuals, further support this hypothesis. We have identified two YAC clones mapping distal and proximal to the chromosome 8 translocation site, as determined by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). PCR amplification of genetic markers in this region, using isolated chromosomes from one of the patients, followed by BAC screening with the closest flanking genetic markers, has identified a 200-kb BAC, which, by FISH, we have demonstrated encompasses the chromosome 8 breakpoint in both families. The fact that the chromosomal breaks in the TS cases from both families occur within such a small region of chromosome 8 further supports the hypothesis that disruption of a gene or genes in this part of chromosome 8 contributes to the clinical phenotype.
Mantle cell lymphoma: improved diagnostics using a combined approach of immunohistochemistry and identification of t(11;14)(q13;q32) by polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a clinicopathological entity characterized by an aggressive clinical course, morphological features, and overexpression of cyclin D1 due to juxtaposition of the bcl-1 locus (and CCND1 gene coding for the cyclin D1) to the IgH gene. This phenomenon is caused by t(11;14)(q13;q32). The morphological diagnosis of MCL may pose difficulties. Ancillary methods are available to support the diagnosis.
Involvement of multiple signaling pathways in follicular lymphoma transformation: p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase as a target for therapy.	Follicular lymphoma (FL) is the most common form of low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Transformation to diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an important cause of mortality. Using cDNA microarray analysis we identified 113 transformation-associated genes whose expression differed consistently between serial clonally related samples of FL and DLBCL occurring within the same individual. Quantitative RT-PCR validated the microarray results and assigned blinded independent group of 20 FLs, 20 DLBCLs, and five transformed lymphoma-derived cell lines with 100%, 70%, and 100% accuracy, respectively. Notably, growth factor cytokine receptors and p38beta-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) were differentially expressed in the DLBCLs. Immunohistochemistry of another blinded set of samples demonstrated expression of phosphorylated p38MAPK in 6/6 DLBCLs and 1/5 FLs, but not in benign germinal centers. SB203580 an inhibitor of p38MAPK specifically induced caspase-3-mediated apoptosis in t(14;18)+/p38MAPK+-transformed FL-derived cell lines. Lymphoma growth was also inhibited in SB203580-treated NOD-SCID mice. Our results implicate p38MAPK dysregulation in FL transformation and suggest that molecular targeting of specific elements within this pathway should be explored for transformed FL therapy.
Expression profiles of acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemias with ALL-1 rearrangements.	The ALL-1 gene is directly involved in 5-10% of acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) and acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs) by fusion to other genes or through internal rearrangements. DNA microarrays were used to determine expression profiles of ALLs and AMLs with ALL-1 rearrangements. These profiles distinguish those tumors from other ALLs and AMLs. The expression patterns of ALL-1-associated tumors, in particular ALLs, involve oncogenes, tumor suppressors, antiapoptotic genes, drug-resistance genes, etc., and correlate with the aggressive nature of the tumors. The genes whose expression differentiates between ALLs with and without ALL-1 rearrangement were further divided into several groups, enabling separation of ALL-1-associated ALLs into two subclasses. One of the groups included 43 genes that exhibited expression profiles closely linked to ALLs with ALL-1 rearrangements. Further, there were evident differences between the expression profiles of AMLs in which ALL-1 had undergone fusion to other genes and AMLs with partial duplication of ALL-1. The extensive analysis described here pinpointed genes that might have a direct role in pathogenesis.
Unique insertional translocation in a childhood Wilms' tumor survivor detected when his daughter developed bilateral retinoblastoma.	Retinoblastoma and Wilms' tumor are rare childhood embryonic tumors associated with loss or inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, RB1 located within 13q14, and WT1 located within 11p13. Interchromosomal insertional translocations occur rarely, and such rearrangements within RB1 or WT1, even rarer. We report a unique family in which an insertional translocation of a chromosomal segment that included band 13q14 inserted into 11p13 caused childhood Wilms' tumor in the father, and whose child developed bilateral retinoblastoma. This is the first case of an insertional translocation that caused both tumors. This insertional translocation had significant consequences for genetic counseling and in utero diagnosis. The estimated risk for an offspring of this father to develop Wilms' tumor is up to 50%, to develop retinoblastoma up to 25%, to have neither tumor 25%, and to have both tumors 0%.
Molecular characterization of a patient with central nervous system dysmyelination and cryptic unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 4q and 18q.	We report on a 12-year-old boy who presented with delayed development and CNS dysmyelination. Genetic studies showed a normal 46,XY karyotype by routine cytogenetic analysis, and 46,XY.ish del(18)(q23)(D18Z1+, MBP-) by FISH using a locus-specific probe for the MBP gene (18q23). Though the patient appeared to have normal chromosome 18s by repeated high resolution banding analysis, his clinical features were suggestive of a deletion of 18q. These included hearing loss secondary to stenosis of the external auditory canals, abnormal facial features, and foot deformities. FISH studies with genomic probes from 18q22.3 to 18qter confirmed a cryptic deletion which encompassed the MBP gene. In an attempt to further characterize the deletion, whole genome screening was conducted using array based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) analysis. The array CGH data not only confirmed a cryptic deletion in the 18q22.3 to 18qter region of approximately 7 Mb, it also showed a previously undetected 3.7 Mb gain of 4q material. FISH studies demonstrated that the gained 4q material was translocated distal to the 18qter deletion breakpoint. The 18q deletion contains, in addition to MBP, other known genes including CYB5, ZNF236, GALR1, and NFATC1, while the gained 4q material includes the genes FACL1 and 2, KLKB1, F11 and MTNR1A. The use of these combined methodologies has resulted in the first reported case in which array CGH has been used to characterize a congenital chromosomal abnormality, highlighting the need for innovative molecular cytogenetic techniques in the diagnosis of patients with idiopathic neurological abnormalities.
A serial study of in cytogenetic change and morphology on the tetra-arsenic tetra-sulfide treatment in untreated or recurrent acute promyelocytic leukemia]	To study the morphologic and cytogenetic change in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients during the tetra-arsenic tetra-sulfide (TATS) treatment and the mechanism of TATS.
The t(14;18) is associated with germinal center-derived diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and is a strong predictor of outcome.	The t(14;18) is present in a significant proportion of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), however, the prognostic effect of the translocation and the relationship with transformed follicular lymphoma remains controversial. To clarify these uncertainties, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was used to determine the incidence of the t(14;18) in nodal DLBCL, and this was correlated with BCL2 expression, germinal center (GC) immunophenotype, and patient outcome. FISH was performed on paraffin-extracted nuclei from 137 de novo nodal DLBCLs. Eighteen of 137 de novo DLBCLs were t(14;18) positive. The t(14;18) was most commonly associated with the subset of DLBCLs that expressed a GC phenotype, defined as CD10+, BCL6+ (GC-type DLBCL): positive in 14 of 47 (30%) cases, compared with 4 of 89 (5%) in the non-GC group (Pearson's chi(2) = 28.4; P < 0.0001). All cases with a translocation expressed BCL2 protein, however, 40 expressed BCL2 protein without a t(14;18). GC-type DLBCL patients with a t(14;18) had a significantly worse survival compared with GC-type DLBCL patients without the translocation (2-year survivals were 29 and 63%, respectively; P = 0.006). Of the cases without the translocation, BCL2 protein expression did not affect survival. In contrast, in the non-GC group of DLBCLs, BCL2 protein expression reduced the 2-year overall survival from 64% in the BCL2-negative group to 38%, with a median survival of 15.0 months (P = 0.02). In conclusion, the t(14;18) is common in DLBCLs, particularly in GC-type DLBCLs, where the presence of the translocation has a poor prognostic effect. BCL2 protein expression defines a group of non-GC DLBCL patients with a poor prognosis.
Translocation (11;15;19): a highly specific chromosome rearrangement associated with poorly differentiated thymic carcinoma in young patients.	Thymic carcinoma is a rare epithelial neoplasm of the thymus. The presence of a specific chromosomal abnormality may augment diagnosis and therapeutic stratification. We report a 15-year-old boy diagnosed with thymic carcinoma who presented with a large anterior mediastinal mass, pleural effusion, and bone metastasis. The pleural fluid, cytology, bony lesions, and bone marrow were examined and chromosomal studies were performed. Histologic and immunohistochemical studies confirmed a poorly differentiated squamous cell type of thymic carcinoma. The karyotype of the pleural fluid at the time of diagnosis revealed a complex three-way translocation t(11;15;19)(p15;q12;p13.3). The constitutional karyotype was 46,XY. Five months after diagnosis, a bone marrow aspirate demonstrated tetraploidy with all translocation chromosomes in duplicate, as well as an unbalanced rearrangement involving chromosome 1: 92,XXYY,t(11;15;19)(p15;q12;p13.3)x2[15]/92,XXYY,idem,add(1)(qter)[5]. Despite aggressive multiagent chemotherapy, the patient's condition progressed with bone marrow disease and he died 6 months after diagnosis. Several case reports of a similar chromosomal abnormality have been reported for thymic carcinoma in young patients with poor outcome. This karyotypic abnormality appears to mark a cohort of patients with thymic carcinoma who have a poor prognosis despite aggressive chemotherapy.
11q13 alterations in two cases of hibernoma: large heterozygous deletions and rearrangement breakpoints near GARP in 11q13.5.	Hibernomas are rare, benign tumors with a histological appearance resembling that of brown adipose tissue. The diagnosis of hibernomas may be difficult because some of them contain only a small number of the characteristic multivacuolated fat cells and can be mistakenly classified as well-differentiated liposarcomas. Cytogenetic information has been reported for 10 cases, showing that these tumors are characterized by structural rearrangements involving 11q13. Previous fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies revealed consistent and sometimes cryptic losses of the MEN1 region in 11q13.1. Here, we describe the molecular cytogenetic analysis of two new hibernoma cases. Both tumors showed complex rearrangements, simultaneously including translocations, inversions, and deletions affecting the pair of chromosomes 11. The translocation partners were chromosome 5 in one case and chromosomes 16 and 22 in the other case. The 11q13 region was concomitantly rearranged on both chromosomes 11. FISH studies revealed large heterozygous deletions within the 11q13 band, from 11q13.1 to 11q13.5. Genes such as PYGM, MEN1, CCND1, FGF3, ARIX, and GARP were deleted, showing that the size of the 11q13 altered region was larger than previously reported. Furthermore, both tumors had breakpoints in 11q13.5, one of them in the immediate proximity of the GARP gene. Our results suggest that rearrangements of GARP or a neighboring gene may be important for the pathogenesis of hibernomas.
Pranlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 antagonist, attenuates allergen-specific tumour necrosis factor alpha production and nuclear factor kappa B nuclear translocation in peripheral blood monocytes from atopic asthmatics.	The cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (cysLTR1) antagonists are useful for oral treatment of bronchial asthma. The underlying mechanism of cysLTR1 antagonists on inhibition of inflammatory cytokine production is yet to be determined.
Predictive value of sperm fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis on the outcome of preimplantation genetic diagnosis for translocations.	To determine whether the proportion of abnormal sperm is predictive of the proportion of abnormal embryos from couples in which the males are translocation carriers.
Birth after intracytoplasmic injection of epididymal sperm from a man with congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens who had a robertsonian translocation.	To present the first case of an infertile male with azoospermia related to a congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD), in which mutations within the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene coexist with a robertsonian translocation.
The effects of STI571 on antigen presentation of dendritic cells generated from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Chronic myelogenous leukemia is caused by the acquisition of the reciprocal (9;22)(q34;q11) chromosomal translocation in hematopoietic stem cells. The fusion protein showed higher and aberrant tyrosine kinase activity. The inhibition of the tyrosine kinase activity of the protein represents a specific therapeutic strategy for bcr/abl-expressing leukemias. STI571 is a compound of the 2-phenylaminopyrimidine class that selectively inhibits the tyrosine kinase activity of the Abl protein tyrosine kinase. In this study, we evaluated the effects of STI571 on antigen presentation of dendritic cells generated from the patients with CML. The data showed that by the addition of STI571 the dendritic cells derived from CML clone showed an increased expression of CD1a, CD83, CD80 and CD86 by flow cytometry analysis and showed more intense abilities of allogeneic antigen presentation by mixed leukocyte culture, compared with the control cells without STI571. Our results suggested that STI571 not only has a direct cytotoxic effect on bcr-abl gene rearranged cells but also an indirect effect associated with increased anti-leukemic immunological function due to an intensified antigen presentation.
The neuroblastoma, "enfant terrible" among pediatric tumors]	Neuroblastoma belongs to the group of small blue round cell tumors and originates in precursor cells of the sympathetic neural tissue. This tumor occurs at the pediatric age and has fascinated and intrigued both clinicians and researchers because of its variable and often unpredictable clinical behaviour. Indeed, the clinical outcome of neuroblastoma patients not only depends on the clinical extension of the disease, but also on other factors including age at diagnosis, presence or absence in the tumor cells of molecular and biological characteristics with prognostic value (e.g. amplification of the oncogene MYCN, frequently associated with chromosome 1p-deletion is predictive for poor survival chance). In 1983 an abdominal stage 3 neuroblastoma was diagnosed in a 9-months old boy. He died of the disease 3 years later. Karyotyping studies in this patient revealed a constitutional chromosome translocation t(1;17) with a breakpoint involving the terminal part of the chromosome 1p arm. We hypothesized that this patient was predisposed to the development of neuroblastoma because he carried in all his somatic cells a chromosomal abnormality involving the region frequently deleted in neuroblastoma tumor cells. We assumed that the chromosomal translocation breakpoints might indicate the regions harbouring genes involved in neuroblastoma development. A somatic cell fusion experiment was performed between the patient's fibroblasts (the only remaining source of patient material) and a fast growing Chinese hamster ovary cell line to assure the possibilities to perform further research. These somatic cell hybrids indeed contained the human translocation chromosomes. Further characterization of the translocation breakpoints by FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridisation) resulted in the identification of NPPA (formerly PND, the gene for pronatriodilatine) and A12M2 (an adenovirus integration site) as flanking markers for the 1p breakpoint. The 17q breakpoint was located between the NF1 (neurofibromatosis 1) gene and the SCYA7 (harboring the gene encoding the monocyte chemotactic protein-3). Starting from these markers chromosome walking experiments furthered the characterization of the chromosomal breakpoint regions and enabled to identify breakpoint overlapping cosmids. Sequence analysis of these markers is ongoing and will reveal if the breakpoint regions indeed harbour a gene involved in neuroblastoma development.
A global transcriptional regulatory role for c-Myc in Burkitt's lymphoma cells.	Overexpression of c-Myc is one of the most common alterations in human cancers, yet it is not clear how this transcription factor acts to promote malignant transformation. To understand the molecular targets of c-Myc function, we have used an unbiased genome-wide location-analysis approach to examine the genomic binding sites of c-Myc in Burkitt's lymphoma cells. We find that c-Myc together with its heterodimeric partner, Max, occupy >15% of gene promoters tested in these cancer cells. The DNA binding of c-Myc and Max correlates extensively with gene expression throughout the genome, a hallmark attribute of general transcription factors. The c-Myc/Max heterodimer complexes also colocalize with transcription factor IID in these cells, further supporting a general role for overexpressed c-Myc in global gene regulation. In addition, transcription of a majority of c-Myc target genes exhibits changes correlated with levels of c-myc mRNA in a diverse set of tissues and cell lines, supporting the conclusion that c-Myc regulates them. Taken together, these results suggest a general role for overexpressed c-Myc in global transcriptional regulation in some cancer cells and point toward molecular mechanisms for c-Myc function in malignant transformation.
De novo chromosomal aberrations in the fetus; genetic counseling and clinical outcome.	The aim of this study was to examine the incidence and clinical outcome of de novo chromosomal aberrations retrospectively and provide useful data for genetic counseling in the prenatal cytogenetic diagnosis. We found 17 cases of de novo chromosomal aberrations in 5501 cases of prenatal cytogenetic analysis and reviewed the karyotype, further study, medical records, fetal ultrasound findings and clinical outcomes. Out of the 17 de novo chromosomal aberrations, 5 had balanced reciprocal translocations and 12 had unbalanced translocations characterized as deletion, addition, or marker. In the case of the five balanced reciprocal translocations, 3 cases without abnormal ultrasound findings were carried to term after comprehensive genetic counseling. Neonates were phenotypically normal and clinical examinations were normal. Two cases with abnormal ultrasound findings were terminated therapeutically. Twelve cases of unbalanced translocations were terminated except one case with a mosaic marker chromosome. High resolution fetal ultrasound and detailed cytogenetic and molecular study will be adjunctive tools for predicting the karyotype/phenotype correlations of fetuses with de novo chromosomal aberrations, although they have limitation to find all phenotypic effects.
Multiple fetal anomalies associated with subtle subtelomeric chromosomal rearrangements.	We report two cases of multiple fetal anomalies detected by prenatal ultrasound and associated with subtle subtelomeric chromosomal rearrangements. The first case presented at 25 weeks of gestation with an enlarged cisterna magna and ventriculomegaly. Karyotyping of amniocytes showed a subtle terminal abnormality of chromosome 6q. Thereafter, screening of all unique chromosomal subtelomeric regions using a panel of telomere-specific, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probes revealed an unbalanced reciprocal translocation between 6q and 17p [46,XX.ish der(6)t(6;17)(q25.3;p13)(TelVysion6q-;TelVysion17p+)]. The second case presented at 25 weeks of gestation with tetralogy of Fallot and at 34 weeks of gestation had additional ultrasound findings of an arachnoid cyst and intrauterine growth restriction. Postnatal karyotyping of peripheral blood was performed and appeared normal. However, a cryptic deletion of the subtelomeric region of the long arm of chromosome 14 was identified when the infant's blood sample was used as a control for an oncology FISH probe. Thereafter, screening of all unique chromosomal subtelomeric regions using a panel of telomere-specific FISH probes revealed an unbalanced reciprocal translocation of chromosomes 14q and 20p [46,XY.ish der(14)t(14;20)(q32.3;p13)(IGH-, D14S308-,TelVysion20p+)mat]. These two cases add to a growing number of reports of cryptic subtelomeric chromosomal rearrangements associated with congenital anomalies. This is the first report of multiple, simultaneous FISH screening of the subtelomeric regions in amniotic fluid and has demonstrated the technical feasibility of this technique in the prenatal period.
CNTNAP2 is disrupted in a family with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome and obsessive compulsive disorder.	Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) is a sporadic or inherited complex neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by involuntary motor and vocal tics. There is comorbidity with disorders like obsessive compulsive disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Until now linkage analysis has pointed to a number of chromosomal locations, but has failed to identify a clear candidate gene(s). We have investigated a GTS family with a complex chromosomal insertion/translocation involving chromosomes 2 and 7. The affected father [46,XY,inv(2) (p23q22),ins(7;2) (q35-q36;p21p23)] and two affected children [46,XX,der(7)ins(7;2)(q35-q36;p21p23) and 46,XY,der(7)ins(7;2)(q35-q36;p213p23)] share a chromosome 2p21-p23 insertion on chromosome 7q35-q36, thereby interrupting the contactin-associated protein 2 gene (CNTNAP2). This gene encodes a membrane protein located in a specific compartment at the nodes of Ranvier of axons. We hypothesize that disruption or decreased expression of CNTNAP2 could lead to a disturbed distribution of the K(+) channels in the nervous system, thereby influencing conduction and/or repolarization of action potentials, causing unwanted actions or movements in GTS.
A xeno-transplantable plasma cell leukemia line with a split translocation of the IgH gene.	A novel cell line, SACHI, was established from a pericardial effusion developed during the course of primary plasma cell leukemia (PCL). The cell line SACHI cells were the same as the infiltrating plasma cells with regard to surface markers (CD38(+)CD19(-)PCA-1(+)VLA-5(-)CD56(-)TdT(+)) and immunoglobulin gene rearrangements. Analysis of SACHI cells showed a complex hypertriploid (karyotype mode 70-73) including 7p32, 14q32, and Xq24 structural abnormalities, which were found also in the original leukemia cells. Dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that the c-MYC gene was juxtaposed with a constant region of IgG (Cgamma) on 14q32. The split Cgamma locus was fused near the MAFB gene on chromosome 20. The SACHI cells had increased amounts of c-MYC and MAFB transcripts. Injection of SACHI cells into NOD/SCID mice generated leukemic plasmacytosis with invasion to liver, spleen, and bone marrow. This cell line may be useful for therapeutic testing as well as analyzing the molecular pathogenesis of PCL.
An indolent B-cell lymphoma with t(2;8)(p12;q24) abnormality and absence of C-MYC amplification and TP53 deletion. A new variant?	The translocation between chromosomes 2 and 8, t(2;8), is well known for its strong association with high-grade Burkitt lymphoma. However, the significance of this translocation in indolent lymphoproliferative disorders is not clear. We present the case of a 75-year-old white male with left upper quadrant abdominal pain, splenomegaly, and an elevated white cell count of 30.3x10(9) cells/L (84% large lymphoid cells with scanty cytoplasm and prominent central nucleoli). Immunophenotyping revealed a clonal B-cell population coexpressing CD5, CD19, and CD20 with weak CD23 and CD25 and very weak, restricted, surface lambda. The cytogenetic analysis showed all 20 cells with t(2;8)(p12;q24.3). In addition, four of the 20 cells also showed a second translocation: t(12;17)(p13;q21). Molecular analysis using c-myc and p53 probes showed normal results with no indication of amplification of C-MYC or deletion of TP53. The patient was managed as an indo-lent/low-grade lymphoproliferative disorder with excellent response to eight cycles of fludarabine.
NUP98 is fused to adducin 3 in a patient with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and myeloid markers, with a new translocation t(10;11)(q25;p15).	The nucleoporin 98 gene (NUP98) has been reported to be fused to 13 partner genes in hematological malignancies with 11p15 translocations. Twelve of them have been identified in patients with myeloid neoplasias and only 1, RAP1GDS1 (4q21), is fused with NUP98 in five patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Three of these patients coexpressed T and myeloid markers, suggesting the specific association of t(4;11)(q21;p15) with a subset of T-ALL originating from an early progenitor, which has the potential to express mature T-cell antigens as well as myeloid markers. We describe here a new NUP98 partner involved in a t(10;11)(q25;p15) in a patient with acute biphenotypic leukemia, showing coexpression of mature T and myeloid markers. The gene involved, located in 10q25, was identified as ADD3 using 3'-RACE. ADD3 codes for the ubiquitous expressed subunit gamma of the adducin protein, and it seems to play an important role in the skeletal organization of the cell membrane. Both NUP98-ADD3 and ADD3-NUP98 fusion transcripts are expressed in the patient. This is the second partner of NUP98 described in T-ALL. Adducin shares with the product of RAP1GDS1, and with all of the nonhomeobox NUP98 partners, the presence of a region with significant probability of adopting a coiled-coil conformation. This region is always retained in the fusion transcript with the NH(2) terminus FG repeats of NUP98, suggesting an important role in the mechanism of leukemogenesis.
Molecular mechanisms of myelodysplastic syndrome.	Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a family of clonal disorders of hematopoietic stem cells that are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and susceptibility to acute myelogenous leukemias and are shown to be strikingly refractory to current therapeutic modalities. A substantial proportion of these complex diseases arises in the setting of exposures to environmental or occupational toxins, including cytotoxic therapy for a prior malignancy or other disorder. The conversion of a normal stem cell into a preleukemic and ultimately leukemic state is a multistep process requiring the accumulation of a number of genetic lesions. At the genomic level, MDS is typified by losses and translocations involving certain key gene segments, with disruption of the normal structure and function of genes that control the balance of proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic precursors. More than half of the chromosomal abnormalities in MDS comprise deletions of chromosomes 5, 7, 11, 12, 13 and 20. This evidence suggests that as yet unidentified tumor-suppressor genes should have important roles in the molecular mechanisms of MDS. Further molecular approaches to such genetic lesions will identify the relevant tumor-suppressor genes. Over the past years, major signal transduction molecules have been identified and their genetic alterations have been extensively analyzed in both MDS and leukemias. These include receptors for growth factors, RAS signaling molecules, cell cycle regulators and transcription factors. Notable among them are transcription factors that regulate both proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. The disruption of the normal flow of the signal transduction pathways involving these molecules translates into ineffective multilineage hematopoiesis and bone marrow failure. Therefore, MDS provides a fertile testing ground on which we could study the molecular dissection implicated in the multistep leukemogenesis.
Inducing chromosome translocation and deletions by Chinese Spring-Agilops 2C disomic addition x Chinese Spring-Elytriga 5E disomic addition]	Crossing between two disomic addition lines, Chinese Spring-E. elongata and Chinese Sping with two gametocidal chromosomes 2C (from Ae. cylindric), was carried out to investigate the function of gametocidal chromosome. After scrutinizing the meiosis of pollen mother cells (PMCs) in F1 hybrids, several results were concluded: (1) In seven of the crossing combinations, the number of univalents exceeded the expected and some trivalents and tetravalents appeared also in MI; lagging, breakage and bridge of chromosomes were observed in anaphase and telophase; considerable micronuclei formed in telophase and tetrads. These were mainly caused by the gametocidal chromosome 2C. (2) Chromosomes 6E and 7E were more susceptible to the effect of the gametocidal chromosome 2C. (3) The gametocidal chromosome 2C functioned in prophase viz. the period of forming synaptonemal complex. Four F1 lines, 5-14, 5-37, 5-67 and 5-71, were identified to be T5ES 4AST5EL 2BS, T5EL 3AS, T5ES 5BS translocation respectively by using C-banding and genome in situ hybrydization(GISH) analysis. Deletion was detected in line 5-17 (short arm of chromosome 2A), 5-27(6B), 5-18(4B and 5B), 5-72(4A) and 5-4(4B) by C-banding analysis. The statistic data showed that gametocidal chromosome could induce translocation with a high frequency of 5% and reacted on group B more efficiently than on groups A and D since translocation involving chromosome 4A, 2B, 3A, 5B and deletion involving chromosome 6B, 5B, 4B, 4A 2A according to Endo's work.
CALL interrupted in a patient with non-specific mental retardation: gene dosage-dependent alteration of murine brain development and behavior.	Investigation of MR patients with 3p aberrations led to the identification of the translocation breakpoint in intron five of the neural Cell Adhesion L1-Like (CALL or CHL1) gene in a man with non-specific mental retardation and 46,Y, t(X;3)(p22.1;p26.3). The Xp breakpoint does not seem to affect a known or predicted gene. Moreover, a fusion transcript with the CALL gene could not be detected and no mutations were identified on the second allele. CALL is highly expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system, like the mouse ortholog 'close homolog to L1' (Chl1). Chl1 expression levels in the hippocampus of Chl1(+/-) mice were half of those obtained in wild-type littermates, reflecting a gene dosage effect. Timm staining and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry of the hippocampus showed focal groups of ectopic mossy fiber synapses in the lateral CA3 region, outside the trajectory of the infra-pyramidal mossy fiber bundle in Chl1(-/-) and Chl1(+/-) mice. Behavioral assessment demonstrated mild alterations in the Chl1(-/-) animals. In the probe trial of the Morris Water Maze test, Chl1(-/-) mice displayed an altered exploratory pattern. In addition, these mice were significantly more sociable and less aggressive as demonstrated in social exploration tests. The Chl1(+/-) mice showed a phenotypic spectrum ranging from wild-type to knockout behavior. We hypothesize that a 50% reduction of CALL expression in the developing brain results in cognitive deficits. This suggests that the CALL gene at 3p26.3 is a prime candidate for an autosomal form of mental retardation. So far, mutation analysis of the CALL gene in patients with non-specific MR did not reveal any disease-associated mutations.
The genetic basis of infertility.	Infertility is defined as the inability to conceive after one year of regular unprotected intercourse; approximately one in six couples wishing to start a family fall into this category. Although, in many cases, the diagnosis is simply 'unexplained', a variety of reasons including lack of ovulation, mechanical stoppage, sperm deficiencies and parental age have been implicated. It is difficult to assess accurately the overall magnitude of the contribution of genetics to infertility as most, if not all, conditions are likely to have a genetic component, for example susceptibility to infection. Nevertheless, a significant number of infertility phenotypes have been associated with specific genetic anomalies. The genetic causes of infertility are varied and include chromosomal abnormalities, single gene disorders and phenotypes with multifactorial inheritance. Some genetic factors influence males specifically, whereas others affect both males and females. For example, chromosome translocations affect both males and females, whereas Klinefelter syndrome and the subsequent infertility phenotype caused by it are specific to males. This article reviews current research in the genetic basis of infertility; gender-specific disorders and those affecting both sexes are considered.
Screening and quantification of multiple chromosome translocations in human leukemia.	Characterization of fusion gene transcripts in leukemia that result from chromosome translocations provides valuable information regarding appropriate treatment and prognosis. However, screening for multiple fusion gene transcripts is difficult with conventional PCR and state-of-the-art real-time PCR and high-density microarrays.
Disease associated balanced chromosome rearrangements (DBCR): report of two new cases.	Disease associated balanced chromosome rearrangements (DBCR) causing truncation, deletion, inactivation or over-expression of specific genes are instrumental in identifying and cloning several disease genes and are estimated to be much more common than anticipated. In one survey, the minimal frequency of combined balanced de novo reciprocal translocations and inversions causing abnormal phenotype is estimated to be 0.17%, a sixfold increase compared to the general population suggesting a causative linkage between the abnormality and the observed phenotypic traits. Here, we report two new cases of apparently balanced de novo translocations resulting in developmental delay and dysmorphic features.
Specific protein redirection as a transcriptional therapy approach for t(8;21) leukemia.	Important progress has been achieved in the knowledge about the pathogenesis of cancer. However, despite these advances, the therapeutic strategies are still limited. Leukemias are often characterized by specific balanced translocations, with the t(8;21) balanced translocation being the most frequent chromosomal aberration in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This translocation produces the AML1-ETO fusion protein, which binds to AML1 target promoter sequences. Transcriptional repression of AML1-dependent genes by AML1-ETO and associated corepressors represents the pathogenetic mechanisms of t(8;21). Here, we show that targeting of AML1-ETO to essential, MYB-dependent gene promoters induces t(8;21)-restricted cell death. We constructed a chimeric protein that contained the MYB DNA-binding domain and the AML1-binding domain of myeloid Elf-1-like factor (MEF). This protein associated with AML1-ETO and directed the complex to MYB-responsive promoters in vitro and in vivo. In the presence of AML1-ETO, the chimeric protein repressed the activity of MYB-responsive promoters, rapidly induced apoptosis, and specifically inhibited colony growth. All these effects occurred only in AML1-ETO-positive cells, whereas no adverse effects were observed in cells not expressing AML1-ETO. Taken together, this study demonstrates that redirection of oncogenic proteins can be used as a strategy to dramatically influence their cellular effects, with the ultimate goal to design highly specific therapies for cancer.
Polysomy 8 in three cases of homologous malignant mixed Mllerian tumors of the uterus.	Unique genetical gain of 8q and/or polysomy 8 identified after short-term culture are presented in three cases of malignant mixed Mllerian tumors (MMMT) of the uterus. All tumors revealed abnormal karyotypes and modal chromosome numbers in the hyperdiploid range. Two out of three cases exclusively demonstrated numerical aberrations, most prominently polysomy 8. One tumor revealed tetrasomy 8 as the sole aberration. The third tumor showed a more complex karyotype, including two unbalanced translocations, leading to partial gain of 8q. These cytogenetic findings, together with 14 previously reported cases of MMMT and 5 cell lines, suggest a distinct subgroup of endometrial MMMT characterized by gain of chromosome 8 or 8q.
An elongation factor G-induced ribosome rearrangement precedes tRNA-mRNA translocation.	The elongation cycle of protein synthesis is completed by translocation, a rearrangement during which two tRNAs bound to the mRNA move on the ribosome. The reaction is promoted by elongation factor G (EF-G) and accelerated by GTP hydrolysis. Here we report a pre-steady-state kinetic analysis of translocation. The kinetic model suggests that GTP hydrolysis drives a conformational rearrangement of the ribosome that precedes and limits the rates of tRNA-mRNA translocation and Pi release from EF-G.GDP.Pi. The latter two steps are intrinsically rapid and take place at random. These results indicate that the energy of GTP hydrolysis is utilized to promote the ribosome rearrangement and to bias spontaneous fluctuations within the ribosome-EF-G complex toward unidirectional movement of mRNA and tRNA.
Frequent occurrence of CCND1 deregulation in patients with early stages of plasma cell dyscrasia.	Chromosomal translocations involving the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IgH) and nonrandom protooncogene loci are the hallmark of genetic alterations found not only in multiple myeloma (MM), but also in premalignant stages of MM, including monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and smoldering myeloma (SMM). We studied the frequency of IgH (14q32) rearrangements and their partner chromosomes in 16 Japanese patients with MGUS (13 cases), and SMM (3 cases) by means of interphase double-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (DCFISH) applied to purified plasma cells and using CD138-bead selection. IgH rearrangement was recognized in nine of the patients (56.3%). Protooncogene loci juxtaposed to IgH were identified in seven cases including CCND1 (11q13) in six cases and FGFR3 (4p16) in one. Four out of the six t(11;14)-positive cases showed nuclear staining of the cyclin D1 protein, whereas none of the seven t(11;14)-negative cases did. Moreover, neither MUM1(6p25)-IgH nor MAFB(20q11)-IgH fusion signals were observed. This suggests to us that cyclin D1 deregulation due to the presence of t(11;14) is involved in the early development of plasma cell neoplasms, and that this event alone is not enough for the development of symptomatic myeloma.
Reciprocal fusion transcripts of two novel Zn-finger genes in a female with absence of the corpus callosum, ocular colobomas and a balanced translocation between chromosomes 2p24 and 9q32.	We have identified a female patient with a complex phenotype that includes complete agenesis of the corpus callosum, bilateral periventricular nodular heterotopia, and bilateral chorioretinal and iris colobomas. Karyotype analysis revealed an apparently balanced, reciprocal, de novo chromosome translocation t(2;9)(p24;q32). Physical mapping of the translocation breakpoint by fluorescence in situ hybridization and PCR analysis led to the identification of two novel, ubiquitously expressed, Zn-finger-encoding transcripts that are disrupted in this patient. Unexpectedly, the rearrangement produced in-frame reciprocal fusion transcripts, making genotype-phenotype correlation difficult.
BCL-2 is consistently expressed in hyperplastic marginal zones of the spleen, abdominal lymph nodes, and ileal lymphoid tissue.	BCL-2 is an antiapoptotic protein overexpressed in follicular lymphomas, principally as a result of the t(14;18)(q32;q21), and useful in distinguishing follicular lymphoma (usually BCL-2 positive) from follicular hyperplasia (BCL-2 negative). BCL-2 is also overexpressed in other lymphoma types without the t(14;18), including marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, because of other, poorly understood mechanisms. It has been suggested that BCL-2 immunoreactivity can distinguish between malignant (BCL-2 positive) and reactive (BCL-2 negative) marginal zone B cells. In this study, we evaluated 26 spleen, 10 abdominal lymph node, and 3 ileum specimens with marginal zone B-cell hyperplasia for BCL-2 expression immunohistochemically. We also analyzed these cases using polymerase chain reaction methods to evaluate for the presence of clonal rearrangements of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IgH) using consensus V FRIII and J region primers, and the t(14;18) involving both the major breakpoint and the minor cluster regions of the bcl-2 gene. All (100%) cases of splenic, abdominal lymph node, and ileal marginal zone hyperplasia displayed strong BCL-2 reactivity in the marginal zone B cells. In all cases analyzed, IgH polymerase chain reaction demonstrated a polyclonal pattern, and bcl-2/JH DNA fusion sequences were not detected. Our results indicate that BCL-2 is consistently expressed by reactive marginal zone B cells of the spleen, abdominal lymph nodes, and ileal lymphoid tissue and should not be used as a criterion for discriminating between benign and malignant marginal zone B-cell proliferations involving these sites.
CD34 expression is associated with poor clinical outcome in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia.	This study investigated the clinical characteristics and prognostic relevance of CD34 expression in 47 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), showing t(15;17) or PML/RARalpha. Ten (21.3%) of the APL patients were CD34(+). CD34 expression was associated with hypogranular morphology (P = 0.002) and hyperleukocytosis (P = 0.015). However, there were no statistically significant differences in age, sex, hemoglobin level, platelet count, or percentage of blasts between the CD34(+) and CD34(-) APL groups. Multiplex RT-PCR analysis showed that the L-form (BCR1) and S-form (BCR3) were correlated with CD34(-) APL and CD34(+) APL, respectively. Despite the lack of a difference in the complete remission rate, overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) were significantly lower in the CD34(+) group than in the CD34(-) group (P = 0.012 and P = 0.0051, respectively). By multivariate analysis, the CD34(+) group showed a significant independent variable in DFS compared with the CD34(-) group, but this was not demonstrated for OS. In conclusion, CD34 expression in APL is a unique clinical feature associated with leukocytosis and atypical morphology with hypogranular pattern and is associated with a poor clinical outcome.
Persistence of TEL-AML1 transcript in acute lymphoblastic leukemia in long-term remission.	It has recently been shown that t (12;21) (p13;q 22) is the most common molecular genetic abnormality in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We have analyzed this translocation in an attempt to evaluate its incidence and to monitor minimal residual disease (MRD) with t (12; 21) rearrangement by detection of TEL-AML1 transcript in patients with childhood ALL.
Oocyte biology and genetics revelations from polar bodies.	The enormous volume of the fertilized egg is attributable to the suppression of cleavage during oocyte growth and the unequal cleavages during the first and second meiotic divisions. The two products of these divisions are the diminutive polar bodies (PB), which contain a redundant set of chromosomes/chromatids plus cytoplasmic organelles. The PB have strictly limited but differential life spans; while viable they possess the genetic potential to support normal embryonic development after transfer to a cytoplast. In addition to the theoretical possibility of using this non-cloning technique to generate more embryos, polar bodies can be used for genetic testing. By cytogenetic analysis of both PB using fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH) or chromosome painting, partial or full chromosomal status in the oocyte can be predicted; this approach finds particular application for women of advanced reproductive age as well as with maternally inherited translocations and single gene defects. By studying both of the PB, potential problems of interpretation arising from allele dropout can be reduced; a heterozygous first polar body provides the least ambiguous result. Mitochondria segregate randomly during meiotic cleavages providing an opportunity also to use the PB to screen for mitochondrial mutations and deletions. Thus, the PB can serve useful diagnostic purposes, especially where pre-fertilization screening or avoidance of embryo biopsy is desirable.
ICSI and the transmission of X-autosomal translocation: a three-generation evaluation of X;20 translocation: case report.	Published reports show that male carriers of an X-autosome translocation, which is either inherited from their mother or is de novo, are generally sterile, regardless of the position of the breakpoint in the X chromosome. We report a three-generation propagation of such a translocation in a family with a case of male factor infertility. Due to the condition of severe oligozoospermia, the proband and his wife underwent ICSI, which resulted in the birth of a normal healthy female. Cytogenetic (chromosome) analyses and X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) assays were done on the family. The cytogenetic analysis of the proband, a man with severe oligozoospermia, revealed an X-autosomal translocation, 46,Y,t(X;20)(q10;q10), which was inherited from his mother. His brother had the same translocation. Amniocentesis and post-natal umbilical cord analyses revealed that the female infant carried the same translocation as her father. XCI studies showed highly skewed inactivation of the normal X chromosome in the female infant, her paternal grandmother, and her mother who had a normal karyotype. In contrast to the data from the literature, our study suggests that men with a certain type of X-autosomal translocation could conceive children through ICSI in conditions in which a few spermatogonia are able to complete meiosis II. The literature involving X-autosomal translocation in males is also reviewed and the importance of the study of X-chromosomal inactivation in female infants discussed.
Newborn with malformations and a combined duplication of 9pter-q22 and 16q22-qter resulting from unbalanced segregation of a complex maternal translocation.	We report a patient with duplication of 9pter-q22 combined with duplication of 16q22-qter. The chromosome anomaly was the result of a 3:1 segregation of a maternal translocation (46,XX,t[9;16;21]). This newborn had intrauterine growth retardation and microcephaly, the characteristic recognizable pattern of trisomy 9p, cerebellar hypoplasia, a porencephalic cyst in the parieto-occipital region, and rocker-bottom feet. We compare the clinical features with another previously described case of duplication of an identical 9p segment combined with distal 16q duplication of a similar, but not identical segment, as well as with cases with duplication of either one of the two segments.
Paternal origin of der(X)t(X;6) in a girl with trisomy 6p and unbalanced t(6;10) mosaicism in her mother.	We present a case of trisomy for the whole short arm of chromosome 6 in a 3-year-old girl with moderate mental retardation, mild facial dysmorphism, short stature, failure to thrive, and no abnormalities of the visceral organs. Cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed a 46, X, der(X)t(X;6)(q22; p11.1) karyotype. The derived X was late replicating with variable spreading of X chromosome inactivation onto the translocated 6p. A normal karyotype was observed in the father, while the mother presented 46,XX/46,XX, der(10)t(6;10)(p11;p11). The mother is a mosaic with unbalanced t(6;10) in 4.7% of cells. To the best of our knowledge, this unusual mosaicism has not yet been reported. In this family the short arm of chromosome 6 was involved in an unbalanced rearrangement with chromosome X in the proband and with chromosome 10 in the mother. In order to study the mechanism of the formation of t(X;6) in the girl we performed DNA polymorphism analysis. These investigations revealed that chromosomes X and 6 involved in the rearrangement are of paternal origin. Our patient exhibits only discrete facial features characteristic of partial trisomy 6p. We suggest that mild phenotypic expression be probably due to X chromosome inactivation spreading onto the translocated 6p. This report show that combined cytogenetic, FISH, and molecular analysis of chromosomal aberrations are necessary for the understanding of the mechanism of formation, parental origin, and genetic counseling.
The BCL6 gene in B-cell lymphomas with 3q27 translocations is expressed mainly from the rearranged allele irrespective of the partner gene.	The BCL6 gene, which functions as a transcription repressor, is the target of multiple chromosomal translocations in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). These translocations occur in the nontranslated region of the BCL6 gene, juxtaposing regulatory sequences of the diverse partner genes to the open reading frame of the BCL6 gene and thus are thought to deregulate BCL6 gene expression. The levels of expression of the BCL6 gene and protein have been demonstrated to predict the clinical outcome of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. By contrast, the prognostic significance of BCL6 gene translocations is unclear. In this study we have sought an explanation for this apparent discrepancy. We examined tumors with a variety of different BCL6 translocations and therefore with a variety of potentially substituted promoters. We found no increase in total BCL6 mRNA levels in the NHL specimens harboring BCL6 gene translocation. Indeed, some of these tumors expressed relatively low quantities of the BCL6 mRNA. We also sought to determine whether BCL6 transcription occurs from the rearranged or from the normal untranslocated allele in these tumors. We demonstrate that lymphoma cell lines and majority of NHL tumor specimens expressed BCL6 mRNA predominantly from the rearranged allele that may come under the control of various partner gene promoters. However, few NHL tumors with BCL6 gene translocations expressed BCL6 mRNA equally from the rearranged and the nonrearranged alleles. Neither the nature of the substituted promoters nor the presence of activating mutations in the BCL6 regulatory sequences correlated with the allelic expression of the BCL6 gene in these tumors.
BARCODE-ALL: accelerated and cost-effective genetic risk stratification in acute leukemia using spectrally addressable liquid bead microarrays.	An increasing number of risk-stratifying genetic lesions in acute leukemia are being discovered and characterized. To translate this important and increasing volume of information from the research laboratory into effective clinical care, however, new, fast and comprehensive assays are needed. Toward this end, we have developed a two-stage multiplexing assay of broad applicability, which combines multiplex polymerase chain reaction with multiplex detection on spectrally addressable liquid bead microarrays. Using pediatric lymphoblastic leukemia as a model system, we demonstrate that all seven of the fusion transcripts resulting from risk-stratifying chromosomal translocations can be assayed in a single well of a 96-well multiplate with 100% specificity and sensitivity, within 6 h of specimen collection. The assay is automatic and high throughput and represents a significant improvement over previously available assays targeting the same genetic changes. We conclude that user-defined assays that multiplex both target selection and detection may have broad applicability in the management of hematological malignancies.
Numerous groups of chromosomal regional paralogies strongly indicate two genome doublings at the root of the vertebrates.	The appearance of the vertebrates demarcates some of the most far-reaching changes of structure and function seen during the evolution of the metazoans. These drastic changes of body plan and expansion of the central nervous system among other organs coincide with increased gene numbers. The presence of several groups of paralogous chromosomal regions in the human genome is a reflection of this increase. The simplest explanation for the existence of these paralogies would be two genome doublings with subsequent silencing of many genes. It is argued that gene localization data and the delineation of paralogous chromosomal regions give more reliable information about these types of events than dendrograms of gene families as gene relationships are often obscured by uneven replacement rates as well as other factors. Furthermore, the topographical relations of some paralogy groups are discussed.
Upregulation of the transcription factor TFEB in t(6;11)(p21;q13)-positive renal cell carcinomas due to promoter substitution.	The MITF/TFE subfamily of basic helix-loop-helix leucine-zipper (bHLH-LZ) transcription factors consists of four closely related members, TFE3, TFEB, TFEC and MITF, which can form both homo- and heterodimers. Previously, we demonstrated that in t(X;1)(p11;q21)-positive renal cell carcinomas (RCCs), the TFE3 gene on the X chromosome is disrupted and fused to the PRCC gene on chromosome 1. Here we show that in t(6;11)(p21;q13)-positive RCCs the TFEB gene on chromosome 6 is fused to the Alpha gene on chromosome 11. The AlphaTFEB fusion gene appears to contain all coding exons of the TFEB gene linked to 5' upstream regulatory sequences of the Alpha gene. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that AlphaTFEB mRNA levels are up to 60-fold upregulated in primary tumor cells as compared with wild-type TFEB mRNA levels in normal kidney samples, resulting in a dramatic upregulation of TFEB protein levels. Additional transfection studies revealed that the TFEB protein encoded by the AlphaTFEB fusion gene is efficiently targeted to the nucleus. Based on these results we conclude that the RCC-associated t(6;11)(p21;q13) translocation leads to a dramatic transcriptional and translational upregulation of TFEB due to promoter substitution, thereby severely unbalancing the nuclear ratios of the MITF/TFE subfamily members. We speculate that this imbalance may lead to changes in the expression of downstream target genes, ultimately resulting in the development of RCC. Moreover, since this is the second MITF/TFE transcription factor that is involved in RCC development, our findings point towards a concept in which this bHLH-LZ subfamily may play a critical role in the regulation of (aberrant) renal cellular growth.
A population-based study of the 22q11.2 deletion: phenotype, incidence, and contribution to major birth defects in the population.	Although several studies describe the 22q11.2 deletion, population-based data are scant. Such data are needed to evaluate properly the impact, distribution, and clinical presentation of the deletion in the population. Our goals were to assess the population-based birth prevalence of the 22q11.2 deletion and its associated phenotype and its impact on the occurrence of heart defects.
Bax translocation to mitochondria is an important event in inducing apoptotic cell death by indole-3-carbinol (I3C) treatment of breast cancer cells.	Indole-3-carbinol (I3C), a natural component of Brassica vegetables, has been found to be a promising cancer preventive agent. However, the precise molecular mechanism(s) by which I3C exerts its inhibitory effects on cancer cells has not been fully elucidated. We investigated the molecular mechanism of action of I3C during apoptotic processes in breast epithelial cells. Nontumorigenic and tumorigenic breast epithelial cells were exposed to I3C, and growth inhibition, apoptosis and expression of genes involved in apoptotic processes were measured. Translocation of Bax to the mitochondria was accessed by confocal imaging. Mitochondrial potential and cytochrome c release also were measured. We found that I3C inhibited the growth of breast cancer cells and induced apoptosis in these cells, concomitant with upregulation of Bax, and downregulation of Bcl-2. I3C induced translocation of Bax to the mitochondria in both tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells, but concomitant loss of mitochondrial potential, release of cytochrome c and induction of apoptosis were observed only in cancer cells. In conclusion, I3C exerts its effects by regulating cell cycle and by altering the expression of genes involved in apoptotic pathway. The translocation of Bax to the mitochondria alone is not sufficient during I3C-induced apoptosis. Translocation of Bax followed by mitochondrial depolarization and cytochrome c release is necessary, which may be responsible for selective induction of apoptosis in cancer cells, supporting the potential preventive and/or therapeutic benefit of I3C against cancers.
Clinical and genetic characteristics of Japanese Burkitt lymphomas with or without leukemic presentation.	To clarify the clinical and genetic features of Burkitt lymphoma with or without leukemic presentation, we have conducted clinical, cytogenetic, and genetic studies. Of 40 Japanese patients with Burkitt lymphoma examined by cytogenetic and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis or Southern blot analysis using MYC probes, 35 patients had t(8;14) translocations, and 5 had t(8;22). Breakpoints were located far upstream of MYC in 4 (12%) of 33 tumors with t(8;14), and Epstein-Barr virus infection was found in 3 (8%) of 40 tumors. These findings are similar to those reported for non-Japanese patients with the sporadic form of Burkitt lymphoma. Clinical and genetic characteristic were compared for 30 patients presenting with lymphoma and 10 presenting with leukemia. The overall survival was shorter in aggressively treated leukemia patients than in aggressively treated lymphoma patients (P = .003); however, the incidence rates of TP53 mutation, p16INK4a deletion, and p15INK4b deletion that were found in 6 (15%) of 40,3 (9%) of 35, and 2 (6%) of 35 tumors, respectively, were similar between the 2 subtypes. Thus, the present study has shown the different prognoses for the 2 subtypes of Burkitt lymphoma but has failed to clarify the genetic backgrounds that may explain the different outcomes.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia as a secondary leukemia after a 3-year remission of acute myelocytic leukemia.	Therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome and therapy-related acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) are now recognized as hematologic malignancies that occur a few years after chemotherapy for primary malignancy with alkylating agents or topoisomerase II inhibitors. The secondary leukemia is usually AML and sometimes is preceded by a myelodysplastic syndrome. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as a secondary leukemia is quite rare, and secondary T-cell ALL after AML is even rarer. We report a case of a 56-year-old woman who developed T-cell ALL after a 3-year remission of AML (M2). We thought that this case would be extremely valuable for studying the etiology and biological characteristics of T-cell ALL as a secondary leukemia after AML.
Localized relapse in bone marrow in a posttransplantation patient with t(6;9) acute myeloid leukemia.	We report a 38-year-old woman with t(6;9) acute myeloid leukemia who relapsed with localized leukemic cell growth in the bone marrow after she had undergone allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. The localized cell growth was first recognized by an apparent discrepancy in the DEK-CAN fusion transcript levels between the aspirates from the left and right iliac bone marrow. Magnetic resonance imaging of the iliac bone revealed localized cell accumulation in the left side. The nonhomogeneous and localized leukemic cell growth in this case may have been due to the graft-versus-leukemia effect following allogeneic transplantation with donor lymphocyte infusion. Serial monitoring of molecular markers for leukemia at different sites or magnetic resonance imaging of the bone marrow may be of value in detecting this type of relapse.
Imperceptible effect of radiation based on stable type chromosome aberrations accumulated in the lymphocytes of residents in the high background radiation area in China.	Cytogenetic investigation of stable type aberrations (translocations) was performed with our improved methods in 6 children and 15 elderly persons in a high background radiation area (HBRA) in China, and in 8 children and 11 elderly persons in a control area. The total numbers of cells analyzed in elderly persons were 68,297 in HBRA and 35,378 in controls and in children were 45,535 in HBRA and 56,198 in controls. On average 5138 cells per subject were analyzed. The variation in the frequencies of translocations per 1000 cells was small in children while it was large in elderly persons. No significant difference was found in the frequencies between HBRA and control (P > 0.05, Mann-Whitney U test). On the other hand, correlation between age and translocation frequencies was significant at the 1% level (rs = 0.658 with 37DF, Spearman rank correlation test). The contribution of an elevated level of natural radiation in HBRA in China to the induction of stable type chromosome aberrations does not have a significant effect compared with the contribution of chemical mutagens and/or metabolic factors. The present study suggests that the probability of the risk of causing malignant and/or congenital diseases by the increased amount of radiation is imperceptible in HBRA where the level of natural radiation is 3 to 5 times higher than that in the control area.
Analysis of cytogenetic response in Ph+ chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with interferon alpha]	Ph chromosome occurs in nearly all patients with CML, and eliminating Ph-positive clone is a major target in the treatment of CML. IFN-alpha is a well-known effective treatment in chronic phase CML. The cytogenetic response and the prognostic factors in 128 CML patients treated with IFN-alpha were retrospectively studied. IFN-alpha administered singly at a dose of 3 million U/day for 2 - 3 times a week or in combination with either hydroxyurea (Hu), busulfan (Bu), low dose Ara-C or harringtonine. Karyotyping was examined by G-banding before and after IFN-alpha-based treatment. The results showed that all patients achieved complete hematological remission. Cytogenetic response occurred in 36 of 118 patients with standard t (9;22) translocation; 3 of these 36 patients had a complete cytogenetic response (Ph = 0), 13 had major cytogenetic responses (Ph < 35%) and 20 had minimal response (Ph > 35%). The total cytogenetic effectiveness was 13.6% (16/118). Four of seven patients with complicated variant translocation also achieved cytogenetic response, 2 of them had a major cytogenetic response and 2 had minimal response. Factors influenced the prognosis associated with cytogenetic response included sex, patient status at diagnosis and IFN-alpha administered singly or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. IFN-alpha could not prevent the progression of CML. It is concluded that Ph(+)CML patients with both standard and variant translocation had major cytogenetic response to IFN-alpha treatment at a dose of 6 - 9 million U/week in single or combination with Hu/Bu, however, IFN-alpha treatment could not prevent disease progression. Long term survival was also observed in patients with variant translocation treated with IFN-alpha. Regular cytogenesis examination in CML patients is necessary during IFN-alpha therapy, which is useful to reflect curative effect and progression of the disease.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-1 and Myc cooperate in lymphomagenesis.	The lymphomagenic action of myc genes in conjunction with Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA-1) have been examined using transgenic mice in several separate tests. Synergy between Myc and EBNA-1 in lymphomagenesis was revealed in a cross breed study where co-expression of transgenic myc and EBNA-1 led to a tumor latency period reduced significantly in some crosses. In the resulting bitransgenic tumors, expression of the Emu-myc genes was not affected by EBNA-1 expression. MoMLV was utilized as a transposon tag to activate cellular oncogenes by infection of EmuEBNA-1 mice. Rearrangement at the c-myc locus in B cell tumors from these mice again suggests a cooperative action between myc and EBNA-1. Tumors arising in EmuEBNA-1 mice typically showed a trisomy of chromosome 15, upon which the c-myc locus resides. Bitransgenic tumors (EBNA-1/c-myc) did not show trisomy 15. This raises the possibility that amplification of c-myc is factorial in the selection of trisomy 15 in these tumors. These data indicate that myc and EBNA-1 act cooperatively and are not redundant in lymphomagenesis. Expression of EBNA-1 by EBV may provide a selection pressure in addition to translocation of the c-myc locus in the genesis of endemic Burkitt's lymphoma (BL).
De novo chromosome translocation t (2; 11) (p25.1; p13) in a patient with aniridia and genitourinary abnormalities.	Aniridia is a rare condition occurring in 1 in 64,000 to 1 in 96,000 live births. Approximately one third of cases are sporadic and carry a 30% risk of Wilms' tumor developing before the age of 5. The remaining 66% are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. The aniridia candidate gene (PAX6) has a key role as a master regulator in the development of eye and central nervous tissues. The Wilms' tumor predisposing gene (WT1) plays an important role in the development of genitourinary tract diseases such as hypospadias, cryptorchism, horse-shoe kidney, and Wilms' tumor. The WT1 and PAX6 genes are about 700 kb apart, with the WT1 gene located centromeric to PAX6 in chromosome 11p13. We report a patient with incomplete aniridia, ptosis, hypospadias, and cryptorchism. Cytogenetic analysis revealed the presence of a de novo reciprocal translocation 46, XY, t (2; 11) (p25.1; p13) without microscopic deletion. We suggest that haploinsufficiency in PAX6 and WT1 genes resulted in aniridia and associated genitourinary abnormalities.
Mantle cell lymphoma: clinicopathologic features and treatments.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) accounts for approximately 6% of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Patients usually present with advanced disease, with a tendency for extranodal involvement. MCL is an aggressive lymphoma with moderate chemosensitivity, but it remains one of the most difficult therapeutic challenges. Complete response rates to chemotherapy range from 20% to 40%, with median survivals of 2 1/2 to 3 years. Anthracycline-containing regimens do not prolong survival compared with nonanthracycline regimens. Single-agent rituximab (Rituxan) has produced response rates of about 30%, and when combined with an anthracycline-containing regimen, response rates increase to above 90%; however, an impact on survival has not yet been demonstrated. More intensive regimens such as hyperCVAD (hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide [Cytoxan, Neosar], vincristine, doxorubicin [Adriamycin], dexamethasone, methotrexate, cytarabine) with either stem cell transplant or rituximab have been associated with promising results.
Treatment stratification based on initial in vivo response in acute myeloid leukaemia in children without Down's syndrome: results of NOPHO-AML trials.	Three consecutive protocols for childhood acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) have been used in the Nordic countries since 1984: the Nordic Society for Paediatric Haematology and Oncology (NOPHO)-AML84 was of moderate intensity, NOPHO-AML88 of high intensity with upfront loading and aggressive consolidation. NOPHO-AML93 utilized the same treatment blocks as NOPHO-AML88, but after the first block those children with a hypoplastic non-leukaemic bone marrow were allowed to recover from aplasia. Poor responders received intensified induction therapy. Between January 1993 and December 2000, 219 children without Down's syndrome were entered on NOPHO-AML93. Compared with NOPHO-AML88, the event-free survival (EFS) at 7 years increased from 41% to 49% (P = 0.06) and 7-year overall survival increased from 47% to 64% (P < 0.01). Toxic death during induction was reduced from 10% to 3%. Survival was similar in patients receiving stem cell transplantation or chemotherapy only in first remission. The major prognostic factors in NOPHO-AML93 were response to therapy and cytogenetics. A total of 67% of patients achieved remission after the first induction course and showed an EFS of 56% compared with 35% in those not in remission (P < 0.01). Cytogenetic results were obtained in 95% of patients. Patients with t(9;11) (p22;q23) (n = 16) experienced a significantly better EFS (86%) than other cytogenetic groups. The overall outcome was improved by employing the previous toxic protocol with different timings, and through individualizing therapy according to the initial response of the patient.
Light adaptation through phosphoinositide-regulated translocation of Drosophila visual arrestin.	Photoreceptor cells adapt to bright or continuous light, although the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are incompletely understood. Here, we report a mechanism of light adaptation in Drosophila, which is regulated by phosphoinositides (PIs). We found that light-dependent translocation of arrestin was defective in mutants that disrupt PI metabolism or trafficking. Arrestin bound to PIP(3) in vitro, and mutation of this site delayed arrestin shuttling and resulted in defects in the termination of the light response, which is normally accelerated by prior exposure to light. Disruption of the arrestin/PI interaction also suppressed retinal degeneration caused by excessive endocytosis of rhodopsin/arrestin complexes. These findings indicate that light-dependent trafficking of arrestin is regulated by direct interaction with PIs and is required for light adaptation. Since phospholipase C activity is required for activation of Drosophila phototransduction, these data point to a dual role of PIs in phototransduction.
Cytogenetic and molecular genetic analyses of endometrial stromal sarcoma: nonrandom involvement of chromosome arms 6p and 7p and confirmation of JAZF1/JJAZ1 gene fusion in t(7;17).	Endometrial stromal sarcomas (ESS) are rare neoplasms with the capacity both to invade the myometrium locally and to give rise to extrauterine metastases. Cytogenetic abnormalities have been reported in 22 cases of ESS, mostly involving rearrangements of chromosomes 6, 7, and 17. The most characteristic translocation of this tumor type, t(7;17)(p15 approximately p21;q12 approximately q21), was recently shown to generate a JAZF1/JJAZ1 fusion gene. We report three additional cases of ESS with abnormal karyotypes, whose interpretation was based on the combined analysis by conventional cytogenetics and cross-species color banding FISH (RxFISH). The combination of G-banding and RxFISH in every case gave additional information beyond that obtained by either technique alone, determining the identity of even complex inter- as well as intrachromosomal rearrangements. In one of the three tumors, a t(7;17) was seen; molecular genetic studies identified the JAZF1/JJAZ1 fusion gene in this case. Two tumors had aberrations that included structural changes of chromosome arms 6p and 7p. Evidently, karyotypic, and hence pathogenetic, heterogeneity exists for tumors classified as endometrial stromal sarcomas based on their phenotypic features.
HMGA2 locus rearrangement in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	We report the first case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia associated with a t(9;12)(p22;q14) translocation within the HMGA2 locus. The breakpoint lies in the 5' region. Fluorescence in situ hybridization with a BAC clone covering the 5' region produced three signals versus two signals with a BAC clone covering the 3' region including intron 3 of HMGA2, which harbors most of the breakpoints described in benign mesenchymal tumors. HMGA2 locus rearrangement was associated with overexpression of an HMGA2 mRNA that lacked a carboxy-terminal tail. These results suggest that the HMGA2 gene rearrangement may contribute to the malignancy in leukemias harboring a 12q translocation.
Study of the genotoxic effects of exposure to cosmic radiation in flight personnel using cytogenetic and molecular techniques]	The ever-increasing use of air travel suggests the need to study health risks in flight personnel, by means of correct exposure assessment and evaluation of genotoxic effects.
Defective expression of Bruton's tyrosine kinase in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase that serves an essential role in B cell signaling and development. We examined the BTK expression profile of primary leukemic cells from infants with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) (N = 14) and from pediatric patients with newly diagnosed (N = 10) or relapsed (N = 5) B-lineage ALL. Analysis of BTK protein and mRNA expression in the infant patient cells (N = 14) showed variable levels of BTK expression with the majority of samples having reduced to absent BTK expression. Sequence analysis of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) products of Btk mRNA from infant leukemia cells revealed the presence of aberrant transcripts. These Btk transcripts were characterized by either deletion of exon 16 (delta16) alone or deletion of both exons 15 and 16 (delta15 and 16). These deletions involve exact exon skipping and encode BTK proteins with either a deleted (delta16), or truncated (delta15 and 16) kinase domain. Extension of these Btk transcript sequencing studies to 15 pediatric B-lineage ALL patients revealed expression of exon 16 deleted Btk transcripts in several pediatric patients, however, none of these pediatric patients expressed transcripts with the exon 15 and 16 deletion. Both reduced expression of Btk message and expression of aberrant deleted Btk transcripts would contribute to reduced BTK protein expression and function in B-lineage leukemia cells. Since BTK is required for radiation induced apoptosis, reduced to absent expression of functional BTK in infant ALL cells could contribute to their radiation resistance.
Unzipping kinetics of double-stranded DNA in a nanopore.	We studied the unzipping of single molecules of double-stranded DNA by pulling one of their two strands through a narrow protein pore. Polymerase chain reaction analysis yielded the first direct proof of DNA unzipping in such a system. The time to unzip each molecule was inferred from the ionic current signature of DNA traversal. The distribution of times to unzip under various experimental conditions fit a simple kinetic model. Using this model, we estimated the enthalpy barriers to unzipping and the effective charge of a nucleotide in the pore, which was considerably smaller than previously assumed.
Tumor load in patients with follicular lymphoma post stem cell transplantation may correlate with clinical course.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate if the tumor load, as determined by a real-time quantitative PCR (RQ-PCR) assay, correlated with the clinical course of follicular lymphoma patients after stem cell transplantation (SCT). Cryopreserved bone marrow and/or peripheral blood samples obtained at different time intervals after SCT from 11 patients (seven allogeneic, T-cell depleted/four autologous) were tested for tumor load, as defined by t(14;18) positive cells/total cells, using RQ-PCR. None of the six patients who remained in remission had samples with a tumor load >0.01% after SCT, although fluctuating tumor loads of </=0.01% were observed in three of these patients. In contrast, four of the five patients (three allogeneic/two autologous) with relapsed/progressive disease had increasing tumor loads of >0.01% after SCT (0/6 vs 4/5, P<0.02, Fisher's exact). Our results suggest that RQ-PCR measurable tumor load >0.01% after SCT may correlate with relapsed/progressive disease. Prospective studies with greater numbers of cases are indicated to better determine the critical tumor load that predicts poor outcome after SCT with RQ-PCR.
Genotypic analysis in primary systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma.	This report presents an experience of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of T-cell receptor g- and bgene (TCR g, TCR b), and immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene rearrangements in 9 cases of primary systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma. We showed 2 clonal IgH, 2 TCR g, 1 TCR b rearrangements. The genotype was B/T-cell in 1, T-cell in 1, B-cell in 1 and null cell-type in 6 cases. We used reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) to detect t(2;5)(p23;q35) and t(1;2)(q25;p23) translocations. T(2;5) translocation was demonstrated in 2 cases, there was no t(1;2) translocation. In most cases the molecular genetic results were found to be in agreement with immunophenotypic data.
Detection of 29 types of fusion gene in leukemia by multiplex RT-PCR]	To analyze the fusion genes derived from 29 types of chromosome structural aberrations in children with leukemia.
t(4;11)(q21;p15), including one complex translocation t(1;4;11)(p32;q21;p15), in adult T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	We report two adults with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Cytogenetic studies at diagnosis with R banding showed a 46,XX,t(4;11)(q21;p15)/46,XX karyotype in one patient and 46,XY,t(1;4;11)(p32;q21;p15)/46,XY in the other. Fluorescence in situ hybridization with whole chromosome paints (WCP1, WCP4, and WCP11) confirmed the complex rearrangement in the latter patient. Only 10 T-cell ALL patients with the t(4;11)(q21;p15) have been described, all, but one of them, being over 15 years old. Although recurrent in T-cell ALL, its frequency appears to be very low; indeed, it has been identified in only 4 of 193 adults and in 1 of 734 children with T-cell ALL thus far reported in the literature.
Characterization of a novel T-cell lymphoma cell line established from a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus-associated lymphoma.	A malignant lymphoma developed in a 46-year-old male patient who had had systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) for 18 years. The lymphoma was at disease stage IV at initial examination, and the patient died shortly thereafter. The lymphoma cells were cultured in vitro, and a continuous cell line, named SMZ-1, was established. The SMZ-1 cells, as well as the parental lymphoma cells, were of helper/inducer T-cell immunophenotype; they were positive for CD2, CD3, and CD4 antigens, and negative for CD8. Expression of CD5 and CD7 antigens was observed in a small percentage of the cells. The activation markers identified by antibodies against CD25, CD71, and HLA-DR antigens were positive. Cytogenetic analysis revealed that the SMZ-1 cells had a characteristic translocation between chromosomes 6 and 14 [t(6;14)(p21.1;q24)]. Southern blot analysis of DNA extracted from the cells demonstrated clonal rearrangement of the T cell receptor beta-chain gene. Integration of the human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type I (HTLV-I) genome was negative. The SMZ-1 cell lines should thus provide a useful model for characterization of peripheral T-cell lymphomas.
t(6;12)(q23;q13) and t(10;16)(q22;p11) in a phyllodes tumor of breast.	Cytogenetic analysis of short-term cultures from a phyllodes tumor showed clonal chromosome changes including t(6;12)(q23;q13) and t(10;16)(q22;p11). This is the first reported karyotype in this tumor type. We discuss the breakpoints of these translocations in relation to the involvement of possible candidate genes.
Expression pattern of the RAR alpha-PML fusion gene in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	Two chimeric genes, PML-RAR alpha and RAR alpha-PML, are formed as a consequence of the acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL)-specific reciprocal translocation of chromosomes 15 and 17 [t(15;17)]. PML-RAR alpha is expressed as a fusion protein. We investigated the organization and expression pattern of the RAR alpha-PML gene in a series of APL patients representative of the molecular heterogeneity of the t(15;17) and found (i) two types of RAR alpha-PML mRNA junctions (RAR alpha exon 2/PML exon 4 or RAR alpha exon 2/PML exon 7) that maintain the RAR alpha and PML longest open reading frames aligned and are the result of chromosome 15 breaking at two different sites; and (ii) 10 different RAR alpha-PML fusion transcripts that differ for the assembly of their PML coding exons. A RAR alpha-PML transcript was present in most, but not all, APL patients.
Molecular epidemiology of Burkitt's lymphoma from South America: differences in breakpoint location and Epstein-Barr virus association from tumors in other world regions.	We have previously shown that the endemic (African) and sporadic (North American) forms of Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) differ at a molecular level. We have now extended our studies to the molecular epidemiology of BL in South America, specifically to two climatic regions: temperate (Argentina and Chile) and tropical (Brazil). We have examined the patterns of chromosomal breakpoint locations in 39 tumors with respect to geography and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) association. The result of these analyses provide further support for the existence of pathogenetically distinct subtypes of BL in different world regions. The majority of breakpoints on chromosome 8 in South American BL (41%) occurred in the immediate flanking region of c-myc, ie, further 5' of the "typical" sporadic breakpoints, in the first exon/intron region, and further 3' of the "typical" endemic breakpoints, which are usually distant from c-myc. However, the distribution of breakpoints on chromosome 14 in tumors from the temperate and tropical regions of South America is similar to that observed in sporadic and endemic tumors. Interestingly, only one tumor with an unrearranged c-myc gene joined to the S mu region of chromosome 14 was observed. This combination was also rarely observed in our earlier series and presumably is either less readily generated by the mechanism that mediates 8;14 translocation or requires other, infrequent genetic changes to provide the necessary selective advantage for lymphomagenesis. The frequency of EBV association in South American BL (51%) is also intermediate with respect to tumors from the United States (30%) and Africa (100%). No correlation with the breakpoint location on chromosome 8 was discernable. Surprisingly, only 54% of tumors with breakpoint outside c-myc were EBV positive. This is in contrast to endemic tumors and suggests that any pathogenetic contribution of EBV is not dependent on breakpoint location, but is more likely to complement additional pathogenetic elements that differ in different world regions.
Increased genetic instability of the common fragile site at 3p14 after integration of exogenous DNA.	We determined previously that the selectable marker pSV2neo is preferentially inserted into chromosomal fragile sites in human x hamster hybrid cells in the presence of an agent (aphidicolin) that induces fragile-site expression. In contrast, cells transfected without fragile-site induction showed an essentially random integration pattern. To determine whether the integration of marker DNA at fragile sites affects the frequency of fragile-site expression, the parental hybrid and three transfectants (two with pSV2neo integrated at the fragile site at 3p14.2 [FRA3B] and specific hamster fragile sites [chromosome 1, bands q26-31, or mar2, bands q11-13] and one with pSV2neo integrated at sites that are not fragile sites) were treated with aphidicolin. After 24 h the two cell lines with plasmid integration at FRA3B showed structural rearrangements at that site; these rearrangements accounted for 43%-67% of the total deletions and translocations observed. Structural rearrangements were not observed in the parental cell line. After 5 d aphidicolin treatment, the observed excess in frequency of structural rearrangements at FRA3B in the cell lines with pSV2neo integration at 3p14 over that in the two lines without FRA3B integration was less dramatic, but nonetheless significant. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of these cells, using a biotin-labeled pSV2neo probe, showed results consistent with the gross rearrangements detected cytogenetically in the lines with FRA3B integration; however, the pSV2neo sequences were frequently deleted concomitantly with translocations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Characterization of EBV-positive lymphoblastoid cell lines obtained from HIV seropositive patients with or without lymphomas.	Epstein-Barr-virus- (EBV-) positive lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) spontaneously arising in vitro were obtained from the peripheral blood of six HIV-seropositive patients and from the peripheral blood and the bone marrow of one patient (LAM) with AIDS and lymphoma. The LCLs from HIV-seropositive patients had phenotypic, cytogenetic, and biological characteristics indistinguishable from those of normal LCLs obtained by infecting B cells with EBV in vitro. The LCLs from LAM patient comprised composite cell populations. Cloning analysis and cell fractionation procedures showed that, beside normal EBV-infected cells, these lines contained a malignant subset population characterized by c-myc rearrangement, abnormal karyotype, and a surface phenotype similar to that of Burkitt's lymphoma cells. Analyses of Ig heavy chain and c-myc oncogene loci showed that these malignant cells were the progeny of a single precursor. Nevertheless, these cells had heterogeneous EBV-fused termini, a finding which indicates that EBV infection followed c-myc rearrangement.
Altered chromosome 6 in immortal human fibroblasts.	Human diploid fibroblasts have a limited life span in vitro, and spontaneous immortalization is an extremely rare event. We have used transformation of human diploid fibroblasts by an origin-defective simian virus 40 genome to develop series of genetically matched immortal cell lines to analyze immortalization. Comparison of a preimmortal transformant (SVtsA/HF-A) with its uncloned and cloned immortalized derivatives (AR5 and HAL) has failed to reveal any major alteration involving the simian virus 40 genome. Karyotypic analysis, however, demonstrated that all of the immortal cell lines in this series have alterations of chromosome 6 involving loss of the portion distal to 6q21. The karyotypic analysis was corroborated by DNA analyses. Southern analysis demonstrated that only one copy of three proto-oncogene loci (ros1, c-myb, and mas1) on 6q was retained in immortal cells. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of the microsatellite polymorphism at 6q22 (D6S87) showed loss of heterozygosity. In addition, elevated expression of c-myb (6q22-23) was observed. We hypothesize that the region at and/or distal to 6q21 plays a role in immortalization, consistent with the presence of a growth suppressor gene.
Molecular cloning and characterization of the t(2;14) translocation associated with childhood chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Two rare cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in children, patients AS and LH, have been found to be associated with a unique chromosomal translocation, t(2;14)(p13;q32). Previous studies have shown the breakpoints of this translocation to be in the gamma 2 switch region of the Ig heavy-chain locus on chromosome 14 and in an uncharacterized region of chromosome 2. We have cloned and characterized the translocation breakpoints to examine the possibility that an oncogene contributed to the pathogenesis of these cases of CLL. Sequence analysis of AS and LH breakpoints established that the chromosome 2 breakage in the two patients occurred only 38 bp apart and within a strong non-methylated CpG island. Furthermore, human probes from the region cross-hybridized to other species, indicating strong evolutionary conservation. Northern analysis using the chromosome 2 probes detected a 2.85-kb transcript in the tumor cells and in a CD5+ B-cell line. These data suggest that a potential oncogene located near the 2p13 breakpoint may have been activated by the t(2;14) translocation in these two cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Translocation (2;9)(p12;p23) in a case of acute leukemia with t(4;11)(q21;q23). Lack of rearrangement of the kappa and interferon gene loci.	A case is reported of an adult male patient with acute leukemia characterized by the presence of the novel cytogenetic abnormality, t(2;9)(p12;p23), in addition to a t(4;11)(q21;q23). The immunophenotype of the blast cell population was consistent with immature early pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) (TdT+,HLA-DR+,CD19+,CD24 +/-,CD10-) expressing myelo-monocytic antigens (CDw65,CD15). The genotype showed a clonal rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. Because the immunoglobulin kappa (kappa) light chain gene is located on chromosome 2 at band p12 and interferon alpha (alpha) and beta (beta) map to chromosome 9p21-p22, rearrangements of these loci as a result of the t(2;9) were studied. There was no evidence for rearrangement of the region covering about 40 kilobases around the kappa locus when hybridized to C(kappa), the 3' kappa enhancer or the kappa deleting element. Only germline size restriction fragments were also found for the interferon alpha and beta genes. The patient's clinical features were typical for ALL associated with the t(4;11), including a high white blood cell count at presentation, hepatosplenomegaly, and a poor outcome. The potential significance of 2p and 9p abnormalities in addition to t(4;11) is discussed.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the (4;11) translocation: combined cytogenetic, immunological and molecular genetic analyses.	Five cases of acute leukemia (AL) with the t(4;11) translocation were investigated for the immunoglobulin heavy chain, kappa, lambda, TCR beta and TCR gamma gene rearrangements. All patients presented with high-risk features and had survival times of less than two years. Two cases were classified by immunological phenotyping as acute null-AL(L), one case as pre B-cell ALL (CD10+) and two cases expressed both immature B-cell markers CD19 and CD24 and myelomonocytic markers CD15 and CD14, suggesting mixed lineage leukemia. In two cases more than two rearranged fragments for the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene could be detected by Southern blot analysis. In the other cases at least one allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene was rearranged. Germline configuration of the T-cell receptor genes and lack of light chain gene rearrangement suggest that an early B-precursor cell is involved in the transformational events in these cases of ALL. Our own and published data indicate that acute leukemia with t(4;11) translocation might be more frequently associated with more than two rearranged fragments for the immunoglobulin heavy chain genes and run a very aggressive course.
Occurrence of distinct PML-RAR-alpha fusion gene isoforms in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia detected by reverse transcriptase/polymerase chain reaction.	A specific 'nested' reverse transcriptase/polymerase chain reaction (RT/PCR) procedure was used to characterize the expression patterns of PML-RAR-alpha chimeric mRNAs in 32 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). The sensitivity of the technique was such that the fusion gene transcript could be detected from as little as 2.5 pg of total leukemic cell RNA against a background of 1 microgram of cellular RNA lacking the PML-RAR-alpha fusion gene transcript(s). In 19 cases the PML-RAR-alpha isoform referred to here as long was identified. A short isoform, which in comparison with the long form lacks three PML exons, was detected in 11 other cases. A third PML-RAR-alpha mRNA isoform, in which the most 3' PML exon present in the long-type isoform was truncated in its sequences lying immediately upstream of RAR-alpha B region, was found and characterized in a single patient. In one APL patient with a variant translocation t(11;17), the PCR product corresponding to PML-RAR-alpha chimeric mRNAs could not be amplified despite the presence of RAR-alpha gene rearrangement. Genomic and PCR analysis showed that the different PML-RAR-alpha isoforms found in APL patients arise as a result of distinct translocation breakpoints. In each case the exons encoding the B-F regions of RAR-alpha are expressed and are spliced downstream from variable PML gene exons. The 'nested' RT/PCR analysis of the PML-RAR-alpha fusion gene proved to be a rapid and sensitive tool for the diagnosis of the APL and for monitoring the residual APL chimeric mRNA expression during complete remission.
Functional homology between N-myc and c-myc in murine plasmacytomagenesis: plasmacytoma development in N-myc transgenic mice.	Mouse plasmacytomas induced by pristane oil alone, or in combination with Abelson murine leukemia virus (A-MuLV), regularly carry one of three alternative chromosomal translocations that juxtapose c-myc to immunoglobulin heavy- or light-chain loci. E mu-c-myc transgenic mice develop translocation-free plasmacytomas after induction by pristane oil and/or A-MuLV [Sugiyama, H., Silva, S., Wang, Y., Weber, G., Babonits, M., Rosen, A., Wiener, F. & Klein, G. (1990). Int. J. Cancer, 46, 845-852]. In order to test whether another member of the myc family, N-myc, could play a similar role as c-myc, we treated E mu-N-myc transgenic mice with pristane and helper-free A-MuLV. Of 20 mice that received a single pristane injection followed by A-MuLV, 17 developed plasmacytomas with a mean latency period of 54 +/- 20 days. In a corresponding group that only received a single pristane injection, five out of six transgenic mice developed plasmacytomas with a mean latency period of 142 +/- 32 days. However, after three monthly injections of pristane, all 15 transgenic mice developed plasmacytomas with a mean latency period of 128 +/- 20 days. All plasmacytomas expressed the N-myc transgene, while none of them expressed either c-myc or endogenous N-myc. None of the tumors carried the usual plasmacytoma-associated translocations.
A PML/retinoic acid receptor alpha fusion transcript is constantly detected by RNA-based polymerase chain reaction in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	The t(15;17) translocation is specifically observed in patients with promyelocytic leukemia (AML3). The chromosomal rearrangement juxtaposes the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR alpha) and PML genes, resulting in PML/RAR alpha fusion transcripts. Our previous studies have shown that a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification product could be obtained from the cDNA of the NB4 promyelocytic cell line from which the chimaeric PML/RAR alpha was cloned. We report here that in all 14 AML3 patients tested, reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) allows the detection of three specific fusion products. In eight patients, one amplification product was detected corresponding to the previously described abnormal fusion. Five patients displayed a different amplified fragment corresponding to a different fusion point. One other patient always showed a third different-sized product. The different types of fusion transcripts amplified were correlated to the size of the abnormal RAR alpha transcripts detected in these patients by Northern analysis, but did not prove determinant for either the phenotypic features or the retinoic acid responsiveness in AML3 cells in this group of patients. The consistent identification by RT-PCR of the fusion of the PML and RAR alpha genes in AML3 patients suggest that this method will provide a useful tool for the diagnosis and detection of minimal residual disease in these patients.
MASL1, a candidate oncogene found in amplification at 8p23.1, is translocated in immunoblastic B-cell lymphoma cell line OCI-LY8.	Genetic amplification at chromosome 8p23.1 has been reported in some solid tumors. Translocation of 8p23.1 has also been reported in hematological malignancies and head and neck squamous cell cancer. In an attempt to clarify whether this translocation is implicated in lymphomagenesis, we performed FISH analysis of the immunoblastic B-cell lymphoma cell line OCI-LY8, which has chromosome translocation at 8p23.1, with various BAC clones. We found split signals on BAC, RP11-18L2 where the MASL1 gene is located. This translocation was found to produce a chimeric transcript of MASL1 exon 1 with a cryptic exon from the genome region at 14q21. Our study indicates that MASL1 is not only a target gene for genomic amplification but also for chromosomal translocation. Since tumorigenic activity of the MASL1 has not been proven, its in vitro transforming activity was studied and in vivo nude mice assay were performed. Although no in vitro transforming activity was detected by focus formation, the in vivo tumorigenesis assay with nude mice showed that both MASL1 and chimeric MASL1 possess tumorigenic activity. This suggests that MASL1 is an important oncogene not only for solid tumors but also for hematologic malignancies.
Structural chromosome abnormalities in Down syndrome: a study of two families.	Two families were ascertained through a proband with Down syndrome and a structural rearrangement involving two chromosomes 21. It is suggested that in one patient the chromosome is an isochromosome formed by misdivision of the centromere of a maternal telocentric chromosome 21 and that in the other a Robertsonian translocation involving chromosome 21 was inherited from the mother, who is a 46,XX/46,XX, -21,+t(21q21q) mosaic. The origin of the mosaicism is discussed and considered to be likely to be the result of breakage and reunion at the chromatid, rather than the chromosome, level.
The Ashbya gossypii genome as a tool for mapping the ancient Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome.	We have sequenced and annotated the genome of the filamentous ascomycete Ashbya gossypii. With a size of only 9.2 megabases, encoding 4718 protein-coding genes, it is the smallest genome of a free-living eukaryote yet characterized. More than 90% of A. gossypii genes show both homology and a particular pattern of synteny with Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Analysis of this pattern revealed 300 inversions and translocations that have occurred since divergence of these two species. It also provided compelling evidence that the evolution of S. cerevisiae included a whole genome duplication or fusion of two related species and showed, through inferred ancient gene orders, which of the duplicated genes lost one copy and which retained both copies.
Cloning of a new familial t(3;8) translocation associated with conventional renal cell carcinoma reveals a 5 kb microdeletion and no gene involved in the rearrangement.	This study describes the molecular cloning of a familial translocation, t(3;8)(p14.2;q24.2), that segregates with the conventional renal cell carcinoma (conventional RCC). We had previously reported the family history and, through loss of heterozygosity and comparative genomic hybridization, detected the loss of the 3p chromosome arm and somatic mutation in the retained von Hippel-Lindau gene in some members of the family. With the help of array painting and sequence tagged site-PCR on flow-sorted derivative chromosomes, we have cloned the breakpoints of the translocation. We have studied the junctions on both derivative chromosomes at the genomic and expression levels. The analysis of the sequence revealed a 5 kb microdeletion at the chromosome 3 breakpoint together with a high density of repetitive motifs (Alu, short interspersed nuclear element) and an AT-rich region. Both chromosome 3 and 8 rearranged regions were very poor in gene content. We tested an expressed sequence tag, two predicted genes, one novel gene and LRIG1, a gene located more than 200 kb apart from the breakpoint on chromosome 3. None of these genes, except LRIG1, showed expression in any of the tested tissues (including normal adult and fetal kidney, sporadic kidney tumours and tumour samples from the proband's family). Taken together, all these data suggest that, rather than deregulation of specific genes that may be rearranged by the translocation, the proposed three-step model of tumour development (translocation, loss of the 3p chromosome, and mutation in a tumour suppressor gene located within that region) could be the biological mechanism that takes place in this familial form of conventional RCC.
CDC91L1 (PIG-U) is a newly discovered oncogene in human bladder cancer.	Genomic amplification at 20q11-13 is a common event in human cancers. We isolated a germline translocation breakpoint at 20q11 from a bladder cancer patient. We identified CDC91L1, the gene encoding CDC91L1 (also called phosphatidylinositol glycan class U (PIG-U), a transamidase complex unit in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchoring pathway), as the only gene whose expression was affected by the translocation. CDC91L1 was amplified and overexpressed in about one-third of bladder cancer cell lines and primary tumors, as well as in oncogenic uroepithelial cells transformed with human papillomavirus (HPV) E7. Forced overexpression of CDC91L1 malignantly transformed NIH3T3 cells in vitro and in vivo. Overexpression of CDC91L1 also resulted in upregulation of the urokinase receptor (uPAR), a GPI-anchored protein, and in turn increased STAT-3 phosphorylation in bladder cancer cells. Our findings suggest that CDC91L1 is an oncogene in bladder cancer, and implicate the GPI anchoring system as a potential oncogenic pathway and therapeutic target in human cancers.
Annexin 1 and the regulation of endocrine function.	Annexin 1 (ANXA1) was first identified as a mediator of the anti-inflammatory actions of glucocorticoids in the host defence system. Subsequent work revealed that this protein fulfils a wider brief and it is now recognized as an important signalling intermediate in a variety of other systems. Here, we consider the role of ANXA1 in the endocrine system, placing particular emphasis on new insights into the mechanisms and functional significance of the secondary processing of ANXA1, the processes that control the intracellular and transmembrane trafficking of the molecule and the molecular mechanisms of ANXA1 action that have identified a novel role for the protein as a paracrine/juxtacrine mediator of the non-genomic actions of glucocorticoids in the neuroendocrine system.
Unfavourable prognosis of patients with trisomy 18q21 detected by fluorescence in situ hybridisation in t(11;18) negative, surgically resected, gastrointestinal B cell lymphomas.	The most frequent cytogenetic alteration in gastrointestinal (GI) B cell lymphoma (BCL) is t(11;18)(q21;q21). GI B cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas lacking this translocation vary in their biology and clinical outcome. The t(11;18) negative subgroup shows increased numerical changes of chromosome 18, although its clinical relevance remains unknown.
Tumor cells are present in stem cell harvests of Ewings sarcoma patients and their persistence following transplantation is associated with relapse.	Tumor cells frequently contaminate autologous stem cell products in a variety of malignancies, but their clinical significance remains controversial. We retrospectively monitored tumor contamination in stem cell harvests from patients with Ewing family of tumors (EFT) all harboring the specific translocation EWS-FLI-1 that characterize these tumors.
Genetic counselling in carriers of reciprocal chromosomal translocations involving short arm of chromosome X.	A central concept in genetic counselling is the estimation of the probability of occurrence of unbalanced progeny at birth and other unfavourable outcomes of pregnancy (miscarriages, stillbirths and early death). The estimation of the occurrence probability for individual carriers of four different X-autosome translocations with breakpoints at Xp, namely t(X;5)(p22.2;q32), t(X;6)(p11.2;q21), t(X;7)(p22.2;p11.1), and t(X;22)(p22.1;p11.1), is presented. The breakpoint positions of chromosomal translocations were interpreted using GTG, RBG and FISH-wcp. Most of these translocations were detected in women with normal phenotype, karyotyped because of repeated miscarriages and/or malformed progeny. A girl with very rare pure trisomy Xp22.1-->pter and a functional Xp disomy was ascertained in one family and her clinical picture has been described in details. It has been suggested that not fully skewed X chromosome inactivation of X-autosome translocation with breakpoint positions at Xp22 (critical segment) could influence the phenotype and risk value. Therefore, the X inactivation status was additionally evaluated by analysis of replication banding patterns using RBG technique after incorporation of BrdU. In two carriers of translocations: t(X;5)(p22.2;q32) and t(X;7)(p22.2;p11.1), late replication state of der(X) was observed in 5/100 and 10/180 analysed cells, respectively. In these both cases the breakpoint positions were clustered at the critical segment Xp22.2. In two other cases, one with the breakpoint position within [t(X;22)(p22.1;p11.1)] and one outside the critical region [t(X;6)(p11.2;q21)], fully skewed inactivation was seen. Therefore, we suggest that neither the distribution of the breakpoint positions nor fully skewed inactivation influenced the phenotype of observed t(X;A) carriers. The occurrence probabilities of the unbalanced progeny were calculated according to Stene and Stengel-Rutkowski along with application of updated available empirical data. In the studied group the values of occurrence probability for unbalanced offspring at birth ranged from 2.1% to 17%. Information on the magnitude of the individual figures may be important for women carrying a reciprocal X;A translocation when deciding upon further family planning.
Topology of constitutional reciprocal translocations in metaphase.	We studied in 39 carriers of 26 reciprocal translocations (including five de novo and seven of indeterminate occurrence) the metaphase localization of the derivative chromosomes, their normal non-homologous counterparts (here called A and B), and two control pairs (C and D). In eight familial translocations, we analysed two to five carriers. We digitally captured 10 G-banded lymphocyte metaphases per individual and measured in microns the largest diameter (d) of the metaphase and six intercentromeric distances: (1) der A<-->der B (problem distance 1, pd1), (2) der A<-->B (pd2), (3) der B<-->A (pd3), (4) A<-->B (control distance 1, cd1), (5) the smaller distance between C and D (cd2) and (6) the largest distance between C and D (cd3); in addition, the average between C and D (cd4) was calculated. We used the formula Delta = 100(cd - pd)/d 12 times per metaphase, compared each pd vs. each cd, and tested the differences by the Wilcoxon matched-pair test. Although, in the whole sample there were not significant differences respect to cd1, this distance emerged as the proper control. In the eight familial translocations, the three pd vs. cd1 comparisons revealed that in 19/24 times the pd was smaller but only once reached significance (cd1 vs. pd2 in t[3;4]). In the analysis per individual the pd was smaller than cd1 in 19 (pd1), 22 (pd2) and 22 (pd3) cases although only twice reached significance. We conclude that in some translocations, the derivative chromosomes actually lie close from each other or from a normal non-homologous counterpart.
A reciprocal translocation, induced by a canonical integration of a single T-DNA, interrupts the HMG-I/Y Arabidopsis thaliana gene.	Major chromosomal rearrangements occur during Arabidopsis thaliana T-DNA transformation. They generally result from interactions between multiple T-DNA copies during the integration process or from aborted integration events. We report here a reciprocal translocation associated with the integration of a single T-DNA which otherwise shows all the characteristic features of a canonical integration event. The exchanged fragments roughly correspond to half of the left arm of chromosome 1 and to two thirds of the right arm of chromosome 2. The chromosome 1 breakpoint maps close to position 23.6 cM and interrupts the coding sequence of the HMG-I/Y gene, which is present at a single copy in the Arabidopsis genome and encodes a non-histone chromosomal protein putatively involved in regulation of gene expression. The chromosome 2 breakpoint maps close to position 33.6 cM, and is located 419 bp upstream of a gene encoding a putative homeodomain transcription factor. Homozygotes for the translocation display a severe phenotype with major developmental abnormalities and total sterility, while heterozygotes are fertile, most of them showing a wild-type phenotype. Among the six possible unbalanced genotypic classes, four are entirely lethal while only a few individuals from the two others survive. Analysis of relations between phenotypes and genotypes strongly suggests that the major phenotypic alterations observed do not result from inactivation of the HMG-I/Y gene.
Unfaithful DNA polymerase caught in the act.	The 3D structures of all 12 mispairs formed in the active site of a DNA polymerase help explain their differential effects on polymerase stalling and on translocation of the primer terminus to the enzyme's proofreading site.
Positional recognition of a tRNA determinant dependent on a peptide insertion.	The crystal structure of a catalytic fragment of Aquifex aeolicus AlaRS and additional data suggest how the critical G3:U70 identity element of its cognate tRNA acceptor stem is recognized. Though this identity element is conserved from bacteria to the cytoplasm of eukaryotes, Drosophila melanogaster mitochondrial (Dm mt) tRNA(Ala) contains a G:U base pair that has been translocated to the adjacent 2:71 position. This G2:U71 is the major determinant for identity of Dm mt tRNA(Ala). Sequence alignments showed that Dm mt AlaRS is differentiated from G3:U70-recognizing AlaRSs by an insertion of 27 amino acids in the region of the protein that contacts the acceptor stem. Precise deletion of this insertion from Dm mt AlaRS gave preferential recognition to a G3:U70-containing substrate. Larger or smaller deletions were ineffective. The crystal structure of the orthologous A. aeolicus protein places this insertion on the surface, where it can act as a hinge that provides positional switching of G:U recognition.
Prenatal origin of chromosomal translocations in acute childhood leukemia: implications and future directions.	We, and others, have demonstrated an in utero origin for translocations associated with childhood leukemia, with latency periods in some cases exceeding 10 years. The mechanism of generation of most of the translocations is thought to be aberrant repair following abortive apoptosis, rather than V(D)J recombination or exposure to topoisomerase II inhibitors. Folate supplementation may prevent some of the chromosome breakage leading to translocation formation. Translocations t(8;21) and t(12;21) have been shown to occur in the normal population (before birth) at a frequency that is 100-fold greater than the risk of developing the corresponding leukemia. In most instances, additional genetic changes are required for progression to leukemia. Tyrosine kinase receptor (RTK) mutations, which give cells a survival/proliferative advantage, are proposed to act cooperatively with fusion genes, leading to transformation. However, translocations and cooperating RTK mutations have not been identified for all leukemia subtypes, particularly in acute myeloid leukemia. The core binding transcriptional pathway is frequently targeted by translocation in utero. We propose that this pathway is highly sensitive during fetal hematopoiesis and may be targeted by mechanisms other than translocation. For each leukemia subtype it is important to characterize the corresponding leukemic stem cell, which is thought to be the initial target for translocation. This would help to elucidate the molecular pathways involved in the progression from preleukemic clone harboring a translocation to fully disseminated leukemia.
9q34.3 deletion syndrome in three unrelated children.	We described three unrelated children with cryptic 9q34.3 rearrangements and similar clinical manifestations: two with 9q34.3 terminal deletions and the other with an unbalanced translocation involving 9q34.3-qter monosomy and 6p25-pter trisomy. Common features among the three we studied and the other six patients with 9q34.3 deletions in the literature include microcephaly, mental retardation (MR), hypotonic, and epileptic seizures. Their facial characteristics included flat face, arched eyebrows, synophrys, hypertelorism, short nose, anteverted nostrils, carp mouth, protruding tongue, micrognathia, and pointed chin. Other frequent abnormalities were cardiac abnormalities, cryptorchidism or hypospadias, and abnormal toes. These findings are characteristic enough to be a clinically recognizable syndrome.
Cloacal exstrophy in an infant with 9q34.1-qter deletion resulting from a de novo unbalanced translocation between chromosome 9q and Yq.	Cloacal exstrophy is a rare malformation, belonging to a spectrum of birth defects, which, in order of severity, includes phallic separation with epispadias, pubic diastasis, bladder exstrophy, and cloacal exstrophy. This malformation overlaps the OEIS complex (O = omphalocele, E = bladder exstrophy, I = imperforate anus, S = spinal defects). The etiology of cloacal exstrophy is unknown to date. It may result from either a single defect of early blastogenesis or a defect of mesodermal migration during the primitive streak period. We report an infant with cloacal exstrophy, exomphalos, right kidney agenesis, ambiguous external genitalia, and axial hypotonia. The karyotype showed a de novo unbalanced translocation between the long arm of chromosome 9 and the long arm of chromosome Y resulting in a 9q34.1-qter deletion. Reviewing the literature, we did not find any observation of cloacal exstrophy associated with a structural chromosomal abnormality. The steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) gene, included in the deleted region, was a good candidate gene but no pathogenic mutation was found by direct sequencing. We hypothesize that another gene, expressed early in embryogenesis and responsible for cloacal exstrophy, is present in the 9q34.1-qter region.
Biological models for leukaemia and lymphoma.	Blood-cell cancers (leukaemias, lymphomas and myeloma) are a very diverse group of neoplasms derived from a variety of stem cells at different hierarchical levels of haemopoietic and lymphoid cell development. This biological heterogeneity is likely to be associated with a variety of different etiological mechanisms. Correspondingly, a large number of inherited normal allelic variations might be expected to contribute to risk. Leukaemias alone have more than 200 different acquired (non-constitutive) molecular abnormalities but some are much more prevalent than others and are associated with biological subtypes with distinctive clinical or prognostic features. Balanced chromosome translocations are very common, together with simple gains or losses of chromosomes. Gene deletions and mutations are also relatively common, especially in more advanced disease. In several types of leukaemia and lymphoma, a transition from benign to malignant status can be tracked together with concurrent accrual of additional molecular abnormalities (e.g. chronic myeloid leukaemia evolving into blast crisis and follicular lymphoma becoming diffuse). The covert preclinical natural history of paediatric leukaemia has been revealed by 'back-tracking' using chromosomal translocation-gene-rated fusion gene sequences as clone-specific stable, specific and sensitive markers. Studies in identical twins, in archived neonatal blood spots of patients and in normal newborn cord bloods all support the contention that chromosomal translocations often initiate leukaemia in utero. Twin concordance rates (and animal modelling) suggest that further secondary genetic changes and exposures postnatally are, however, critical and this is endorsed by the finding that leukaemic fusion genes are present in normal newborn infants at a rate that far exceeds the cumulative risk of leukaemia. The natural history of leukaemic subtypes provides a useful framework for molecular epidemiological studies and significant advances have been made in this respect with infant and childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Causal models of leukaemia and lymphoma.	In this chapter, we apply the molecular epidemiological paradigm of biomarkers of exposure, early effect and susceptibility to causal models of leukaemia and lymphoma. The aim is to enhance the development of biomarkers for use in studying the causes of these haematopoeitic cancers in the general population. Two causal models of acute myeloid leukaemia are discussed in detail: chemotherapy-induced and benzene-induced acute myeloid leukaemia. Specific chromosomal changes found in acute myeloid leukaemia may serve as useful biomarkers of early effect in these models, and genetic variants in glutathione S-transferases, NQO1 and DNA-repair enzymes may serve as useful biomarkers of susceptibility. Several causal models of lymphoma exist in which biomarkers could be developed and validated. These include human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) immunosuppression, families with inherited disorders and workers exposed to petroleum products, pesticides or organochlorines. Biomarkers of early effect could include markers of DNA double-strand breaks and aberrant V(D)J recombination, and susceptibility may be related to polymorphisms in genes controlling DNA repair and immunological status. We predict that biomarkers of susceptibility will continue to be studied in the case-control format, perhaps in large pooled studies, but that for biomarkers of early effect, there will be a move away from the study of diseased populations to the study of individuals 'at risk' in the causal models described above.
A Fryns syndrome-like phenotype with mosaic t(1;22)(q12;p12) chromosomal translocation.	We report a case of Fryns syndrome-like phenotype with chromosomal translocation. Not all such cases have chromosomal abnormalities hence we suggest that this condition is associated with genetic heterogeneity and variable clinical manifestations.
Del(18p) syndrome with increased nuchal translucency in prenatal diagnosis.	We report a de novo translocation between chromosome 15 and 18 resulting in monosomy 18p in prenatal diagnosis. The patient was referred for amniocentesis due to increased nuchal translucency (INT) (5 mm) at 13.6 weeks of gestation. Karyotype of the fetus revealed 45,XX,der(15;18)(q10;q10) in all metaphases. The targeted fetal ultrasound at 20 weeks of gestation did not show any special physical abnormalities other than 6.4 mm of nuchal fold thickness. Molecular cytogenetic findings using CGH and FISH confirmed the del(18p) with dicentromeres from both chromosome 15 and 18. The present study shows that the INT at first trimester was the only prenatal finding for the fetus with del(18p) syndrome and that molecular cytogenetic methods are useful for detecting chromosomal aberrations precisely.
Prenatal diagnosis of 47,XX,der(15)t(15;16)(q13;p13.2).	A case of prenatally detected partial trisomy 15 and 16 is reported. Amniocentesis was performed at 14 weeks' gestation because a 6-mm nuchal translucency was detected on a dating ultrasound evaluation. Karyotype from amniocytes was suspect of an aberration concerning a marker chromosome. FISH analysis demonstrated that this marker chromosome was a der(15). A maternal chromosomal rearrangement t(15;16)(q13;p13.2) was confirmed. At birth, the proband was severely hydropic and had dysmorphic features, which included hypertelorism, micrognathia, incomplete separation of the maxilla and mandible, hyperflexed hands with overlapping fingers, hyposegmented right lung, and a single umbilical artery.
Phenotypical variation in cousins with the identical partial trisomy 9 (pter-q22.2) and 7 (q35-qter) at 16 and 23 weeks gestation.	From the study of numerical and structural chromosomal abnormalities, there is convincing evidence and accumulating information of a direct karyotype to phenotype correlation. Knowledge of phenotypic consequences of a specific chromosomal imbalance is important for genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis. However, for unbalanced non-Robertsonian translocations a precise karyotype to phenotype correlation is difficult to predict for several reasons: (I) unbalanced non-Robertsonian translocations are rare, (II) the published case reports are often not age-matched, (III) varying breakpoints result in different lengths of the monosomic and trisomic segments and therefore the phenotype will depend on additional genes present or the loss of coding regions, and (IV) the combination of the same trisomy with different monosomies, or vice versa, can result in diverging phenotypes. Therefore, the study of the karyotype to phenotype correlation in affected relatives of the same age and the identical unbalanced translocation provides a good model to investigate phenotypic consequences of a specific genetic imbalance. We report of two second trimester fetuses with the identical major partial trisomy 9 (9pter-9q22.2) and minor partial trisomy 7 (q35-qter) resulting from a familial translocation (7;9)(q35;q22.2)mat. One fetus presented with a Dandy-Walker malformation, polymicrogyria, and mild dysmorphic features, whereas the other fetus showed unilateral cleft lip and palate without cerebral anomalies. Potential mechanisms for this different phenotypic expression of the same unbalanced translocation resulting in partial trisomy 9 and 7 in the two cousins and possible consequences for genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis are discussed.
Results of imatinib mesylate therapy in chronic myelogenous leukaemia with variant Philadelphia chromosome.	Five to 10 per cent of patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) have variant translocations involving chromosomes other than 9 and 22. We investigated the characteristics and outcome of patients with variant translocations treated with imatinib. Among 721 patients, 44 (6%) had variant translocations, involving one (n = 39) or two (n = 4) additional chromosomes. Nineteen patients (44%) were in chronic (12 previously untreated), 24 (55%) in accelerated and one (2%) in blastic phase. A major cytogenetic response was achieved in 14 (74%) patients treated in chronic phase and in 14 (58%) treated in accelerated phase. Six of 13 (46%) evaluable patients had deletion of derivative chromosome 9, and there was a trend for a lower response rate in these patients. We compared the 43 patients in chronic or accelerated phase to 678 patients with classic Ph treated with imatinib. The only significant difference in clinical characteristics was a higher frequency of accelerated phase among those with variant translocations (56%) compared with those with classic translocations (38%). No differences in outcome were evident. In a multivariate analysis, variant Ph translocations had no impact in response rate, overall survival or duration of response. We conclude that patients with variant Ph translocations have a similar prognosis to those with classic Ph translocations when treated with imatinib.
NADPH oxidase activity of neutrophil specific granules: requirements for cytosolic components and evidence of assembly during cell activation.	Neutrophils and other phagocytic cells support host defense by ingesting microbes and destroying them with reactive oxygen species or oxygen independent mechanisms. Production of ROS is initiated by the phagocyte NADPH oxidase (phox), an enzyme system composed of several constituents. During activation of the cell cytosolic phox proteins (p47phox, p67phox, p40phox, and Rac2) translocate to the plasma membrane and specific granules fuse with the plasma membrane increasing the amount of flavocytochrome b(558). The resultant assembly of phox components results in formation of a complete complex and expression of activity. In this study, we evaluated the oxidase activity of specific granules. In the SDS cell-free system, specific granules expressed oxidase activity in the presence of cytosol in a manner similar to plasma membrane. In contrast to plasma membrane, activity of specific granules was latent, diminishing rapidly over time. In addition, this subcellular fraction contained an inhibitor, possibly related to contamination with azurophilic granules explaining previously published discrepant results. Experiments with recombinant p47phox, p67phox, and dilute cytosol or fractionated cytosol as a source of Rac demonstrated that specific granules have requirements identical to specific granules for oxidase activity. Finally, analysis of neutrophils stimulated with PMA demonstrated translocation of p47phox and to p67phox to specific granules as well as plasma membrane. Both plasma membrane and specific granules from PMA stimulated cells expressed oxidase activity with addition of NADPH demonstrating an assembled oxidase complex. These studies establish a critical role for specific granules as a site for assembly and activation of the oxidase enzyme system and an important constituent for the microbicidal activity of the neutrophil.
Linkage mapping of powdery mildew and greenbug resistance genes on recombinant 1RS from 'Amigo' and 'Kavkaz' wheat-rye translocations of chromosome 1RS.1AL.	Cultivated rye (Secale cereale L., 2n = 2x = 14, RR) is an important source of genes for insect and disease resistance in wheat (Triticum aestivum L., 2n = 6x = 42). Rye chromosome arm 1RS of S. cereale 'Kavkaz' originally found as a 1BL.1RS translocation, carries genes for disease resistance (e.g., Lr26, Sr31, Yr9, and Pm8), while 1RS of the S. cereale 'Amigo' translocation (1RSA) carries a single resistance gene for greenbug (Schizaphis graminum Rondani) biotypes B and C and also carries additional disease-resistance genes. The purpose of this research was to identify individual plants that were recombinant in the homologous region of.1AL.1RSV and 1AL.1RSA using both molecular and phenotypic markers. Secale cereale 'Nekota' (1AL.1RSA) and S. cereale 'Pavon 76' (1AL.1RSV) were mated and the F1 was backcrossed to 'Nekota' (1AL.1AS) to generate eighty BC1F2:3 families (i.e., ('Nekota' 1AL.1RSA x 'Pavon 76' 1AL.1RSV) x 'Nekota' 1AL.1AS). These families were genotyped using the secalin-gliadin grain storage protein banding pattern generated with polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to discriminate 1AL.1AS/1AL.1RS heterozygotes from the 1AL.1RSA+V and 1AL.1AS homozygotes. Segregation of the secalin locus and PCR markers based on the R173 family of rye specific repeated DNA sequences demonstrated the presence of recombinant 1AL.1RSA+V families. Powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis) and greenbug resistance genes on the recombinant 1RSA+V arm were mapped in relation to the Sec-1 locus, 2 additional protein bands, 3 SSRs, and 13 RFLP markers. The resultant linkage map of 1RS spanned 82.4 cM with marker order and spacing showing reasonable agreement with previous maps of 1RS. Fifteen markers lie within a region of 29.7 cM next to the centromere, yet corresponded to just 36% of the overall map length. The map position of the RFLP marker probe mwg68 was 10.9 cM distal to the Sec-1 locus and 7.8 cM proximal to the powdery mildew resistance locus. The greenbug resistance gene was located 2.7 cM proximal to the Sec-1 locus.
Microdissection and gene rearrangement analysis of paraffin-embedded specimens of orbital malignant lymphoma.	To determine whether a definite diagnosis of malignant lymphoma can be made from paraffin-embedded archived orbital specimens by gene rearrangement analysis using microdissection and polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for a rapid first-trimester prenatal diagnosis.	Early diagnosis of unbalanced chromosomal abnormalities can be crucial in minimizing the trauma caused by an elective abortion. Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) can be performed from 9 weeks of gestation. However, two major problems are encountered in fetal karyotyping using cultured cells from chorionic villi: the relatively slow growth of these cells in culture, which delays the diagnosis, and the occurrence of maternal cell contamination (MCC). With FISH, a result can be obtained within 24 h, and, as no cell culturing is involved, the problem of MCC is minimized.
Prenatal diagnosis of an extra der(4) resulting from a complex maternal chromosome translocation.	We report the prenatal diagnosis of an extra der(4) resulting from 4:2 malsegregation of a maternal balanced complex translocation involving chromosomes 4, 10, and 11. The woman was referred for amniocentesis because of recurrent miscarriages. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed in order to characterize the complex chromosome rearrangement. Following genetic counselling, the couple decided to terminate the pregnancy.
The pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide is a physiological inhibitor of platelet activation.	The pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide of the vasoactive intestinal peptide/secretin/glucagon superfamily. Studies in two related patients with a partial trisomy 18p revealed three copies of the PACAP gene and elevated PACAP concentrations in plasma. The patients suffer from severe mental retardation and have a bleeding tendency with mild thrombocytopenia, and their fibroblasts show increased PACAP mRNA levels. The PACAP receptor (vasoactive intestinal peptide/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide receptor 1 [VPAC1]) in platelets and fibroblasts is coupled to adenylyl cyclase activation. Accordingly, we found increased basal cAMP levels in patients' platelets and fibroblasts, providing a basis for the reduced platelet aggregation in these patients. Megakaryocyte-specific transgenic overexpression of PACAP in mice correspondingly increased PACAP release from platelets, reduced platelet activation, and prolonged the tail bleeding time. In contrast, the PACAP antagonist PACAP(6-38) or a monoclonal PACAP antibody enhanced the collagen-induced aggregation of normal human platelets, and in PACAP knockout mice, an increased platelet sensitivity toward collagen was found. Thus, we found that PACAP modulates platelet function and demonstrated what we believe to be the first hemostatic defect associated with PACAP overexpression; our study suggests the therapeutic potential to manage arterial thrombosis or bleeding by administration of PACAP mimetics or inhibitors, respectively.
Establishment and characterization of a cytogenetically complex Chinese multiple myeloma-derived cell line with homozygous p53 deletion and cyclin E overexpression.	We describe the establishment and characterization of a new myeloma-derived cell line (MM17), originating from the sacral plasmacytoma of a 54-year-old Chinese woman diagnosed with multiple myeloma (MM). MM17 was confirmed morphologically and immunophenotypically to be clonal plasma cells positive for CD38 and CD138 and negative for EBV marker. Authenticity was confirmed using comparative genomic hybridization and DNA fingerprinting studies on bone marrow aspirate, sacral tumor tissue and MM17. Combined G-banding and multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses demonstrated a primarily hypodiploid karyotype with two sidelines sharing common stemline aberrations: +6, -7, -10, -13, -14, -17, -X, der(1;17)(q10;q10), t(2;7)(q23;q11.2), t(8;14)(q24;q32) and ins(16;1)(q13;?q22q41); and a number of hypertriploid cells. The involvement of p53 alteration and cyclin E overexpression, both with relevance to the induction of chromosomal instability, was investigated in MM17 and together with two other MM derived cell lines (U266 and IM-9) for cyclin E expression. Homozygous deletion of p53 gene hitherto not reported in MM, was detected. Both MM17 and U266 with complex cytogenetic aberrations demonstrated overexpression of cyclin E1 and E2, whereas IM-9 with a normal karyotype showed cyclin E2 but not E1 overexpression. These data suggested that E1 but not E2 overexpression was associated with chromosomal abnormalities observed in MM17 and U266, which provides the first supporting evidence for the link of cyclin E and chromosomal instability in MM. This is the first characterized Chinese MM-derived cell line with homozygous p53 deletion which may serve as a valuable in vitro system for studying MM pathogenesis particularly for Chinese.
New cytokine-dependent acute myeloid leukemia cell line MUTZ-11 with disomic chromosome rearrangement t(16;17).	Continuous human leukemia-lymphoma (LL) cell lines represent a rich resource of abundant, accessible and manipulable living cells contributing significantly to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of hematopoietic tumors. In particular, classical and molecular cytogenetics have benefitted enormously from the availability of LL cell lines with specific chromosomal abnormalities. Such aberrations may be the portal to the discovery of novel oncogene rearrangements for which positive cell lines provide a resource for both discovery and functional studies. The new continuous leukemia cell line MUTZ-11 was established in 1994 from the peripheral blood of a 60-year-old woman with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) M4 (following 2 years with myelodysplastic syndromes). DNA fingerprinting confirmed the authenticity and derivation of the cell line. The immunoprofile as determined by flow cytometry was as follows: positive for myelocytic markers (CD13, CD15, CD33, CD65 and CD68), negative for T-cell (except for CD4 and CD7), B-cell and erythroid-megakaryocytic markers. The cell line is constitutively cytokine-dependent and growth depends on externally added cytokines. With regard to cytokine receptor expression, the cell line was found to be positive for GM-CSFRalpha (granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor, CD116), Kit (CD117) and IL-3Ralpha (interleukin-3 receptor, CD123). The cytokine response profiles as determined by [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation assay were: 2-to-12 fold growth stimulation of MUTZ-11 by GM-CSF, IFN-alpha (interferon), IFN-beta, IFN-gamma, IL-3 and SCF (stem cell factor); growth inhibition by TGF-beta1 (transforming growth factor), TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor) and TNF-beta. Cytogenetic analysis showed the following consensus karyotype: 46, XX, der(16)t(16;17)(p13.3;q23)x2. Previous molecular biological analysis documented that MUTZ-11 cells carry both an FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD) and an MLL partial tandem duplication (PTD). The scientific significance of MUTZ-11 lies (i). in the absolute cytokine-dependency and the proliferative response to various cytokines, (ii). in the unique cytogenetic (disomic t(16;17)) and (iii). molecular biological alterations (FLT3 ITD + MLL PTD). In summary, the new cytokine-dependent AML-derived cell line MUTZ-11 displays unique novel features and emphasizes the need for comprehensive analysis of new LL cell lines which may lead to the discovery of important pathogenetic alterations.
Regulation of annexin II by cytokine-initiated signaling pathways and E2A-HLF oncoprotein.	In pro-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), expression of the E2A-HLF fusion gene as a result of t(17;19)(q22;p13) is associated with poor prognosis, hypercalcemia, and hemorrhagic complications. We previously reported that the E2A-HLF fusion protein protects interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent lymphoid cells from apoptosis caused by cytokine starvation. Here, we report that annexin II, a surface phospholipid-binding protein and one of the proposed causes of the hemorrhagic complications of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), is also implicated in t(17;19)+ ALL. Annexin II was expressed at high levels in APL cells and in each of 4 t(17;19)+ leukemia cell lines, and annexin II expression was induced by enforced expression of E2A-HLF in leukemia cells. In IL-3-dependent cells, we found that annexin II expression was regulated by IL-3 mainly by Ras pathways, including Ras/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathways. Moreover, E2A-HLF increased annexin II expression in IL-3-dependent cells in the absence of the cytokine. These findings indicate that E2A-HLF induces annexin II by substituting for cytokines that activate downstream pathways of Ras.
Partial duplication of the MLL oncogene in patients with aggressive acute myeloid leukemia.	MLL translocations generate a fusion gene between the 5' end of MLL and the 3' end of different partner genes. Several chromosomal mechanisms including complex and cryptic changes lead to these recombinations. Our objective was to analyze the molecular composition of chromosomes in complex karyotypes with specific MLL translocations.
Use of a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor to induce apoptosis in cell lines of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Chromatin structure and thereby transcription is controlled by the level of acetylation of histones, which is determined by the balance between histone acetyl transferase (HAT) activity and histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity. HDAC inhibitors are a class of compounds able to regulate gene expression by modulating chromatin structure. There are two major classes of HDAC inhibitors: the hydroxamic acid derivatives such as trichostatin A (TSA) or SAHA, and the butyrates such as phenyl-butyrate. HDAC inhibitors interfere with differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis in tumor cells. Here, we investigated the activity of a new hydroxamic acid derivative, LAQ824, on lymphoblastic cells.
Molecular basis of Diamond-Blackfan anemia: new findings from the Italian registry and a review of the literature.	Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a rare, pure red blood cell aplasia of childhood caused by an intrinsic defect in erythropoietic progenitors. Malformations occur in about 40% of patients. More than half of patients respond to steroids; non-responders need chronic transfusions or stem cell transplantation (SCT). Mutations in the gene encoding ribosomal protein S19 are found in 25% of patients, but the link with erythropoiesis is unclear. A second DBA locus has been found on chromosome 8p22-p23; analysis of genes of the region is in progress.
Assessment of t(2;5)(p23;q35) translocation and variants in pediatric ALK+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma.	To evaluate t(2;5) and its variants, we studied 21 pediatric cases of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) by using immunohistochemical staining, fluorescence in situ hybridization, cytogenetics, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Results showed 7 (33%) cases with t(2;5), 6 (29%) with variant gene rearrangements, 7 (33%) with uncharacterized rearrangements, and 1 with ALK protein expression but no ALK rearrangement. Among 6 variant gene rearrangements, 1 had TPM4-ALK/t(2;19)(p23;p13) and 2 had inv(2) with the breakpoint proximate to ATIC-ALK and an unknown partner gene separately. The genetic features of the remaining 3 cases were as follows: ins(8;2) with an unknown partner gene; conversion from ALK- at diagnosis to ALK+ at recurrence with unspecified gene rearrangement; complex karyotype without involvement of 2p23, suggesting a cryptic translocation. Concordance between different laboratory results varied from 47% to 81%. These data suggest that ALK variants are not uncommon and underscore the necessity of integrating immunohistochemical, cytogenetic, and molecular genetic approaches to detect, characterize, and confirm t(2;5) and its variant translocations.
A giant novel gene undergoing extensive alternative splicing is severed by a Cornelia de Lange-associated translocation breakpoint at 3q26.3.	Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) is a rare developmental malformation syndrome characterised by mental handicap, growth retardation, distinctive facial features and limb reduction defects. The vast majority of CdLS cases are sporadic. We carried out a high density bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) microarray comparative genome hybridisation screen but no evidence was found for a consistent pattern of microdeletion/microduplication. As an alternative, we focused on identifying chromosomal regions spanning associated translocation breakpoints. We prioritised the distal 3q region because of the occurrence, in a classical CdLS patient, of a de novo balanced translocation with a breakpoint at 3q26.3 and of reports of phenotypic overlap between cases of mild CdLS and individuals trisomic for the 3q26-q27 region. We show that the 3q26.3 breakpoint severs a previously uncharacterised giant gene, NAALADL2, containing at least 32 exons spanning 1.37 Mb. Northern blot analysis identified up to six different transcripts in the 1-10 kb range with strongest expression in kidney and placenta; embryonic expression was largely confined to duodenal and stomach endoderm, mesonephros, metanephros and pancreas. Transcript analysis identified extensive alternative splicing leading to multiple 5' and 3' untranslated regions and variable coding sequences. Multiple protein isoforms were defined by different N-terminal regions (with at least four alternative initiating methionine codons), and by differential protein truncation/use of alternative C-terminal sequences attributable to alternative splicing/polyadenylation. Outside the N-terminal regions, the predicted proteins showed significant homology to N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase and transferrin receptors. Mutation screening of NAALADL2 in a panel of CdLS patient DNA samples failed to identify patient-specific mutations. We discuss the possibility that the 3q26.3 translocation could nevertheless contribute to pathogenesis.
Phenotypic and molecular assessment of seven patients with 6p25 deletion syndrome: relevance to ocular dysgenesis and hearing impairment.	Thirty-nine patients have been described with deletions involving chromosome 6p25. However, relatively few of these deletions have had molecular characterization. Common phenotypes of 6p25 deletion syndrome patients include hydrocephalus, hearing loss, and ocular, craniofacial, skeletal, cardiac, and renal malformations. Molecular characterization of deletions can identify genes that are responsible for these phenotypes.
The IHPK1 gene is disrupted at the 3p21.31 breakpoint of t(3;9) in a family with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a group of multifactorial disorders due to either defective insulin secretion or action. Despite the fact that numerous genetic researches of T2DM have been pursued, the pathogenic mechanisms remain obscure. We encountered a T2DM family associated with a balanced reciprocal translocation, t(3;9)(p21.31;q33.1). To isolate a candidate gene susceptible to T2DM, we constructed physical maps covering both the 3p and 9q breakpoints of the translocation in the family. Consequently, the inositol hexaphosphate kinase 1 gene ( IHPK1) (OMIM *606991) was found to be disrupted at the 3p21.31 breakpoint. We then carried out sequence analysis for all coding regions of IHPK1 in 405 unrelated T2DM patients in order to validate whether aberrations of the gene are common in T2DM patients, but we failed to detect any pathogenic changes. The disruption of IHPK1 or another predisposing gene affected by position effect of the translocation may explain the T2DM phenotype at least in this family. Alternatively, the IHPK1 disruption in the family is a chance association.
Analysis of translocations in stable cells and their implications in retrospective biological dosimetry.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the influence of the exclusion of cells with unstable aberrations in the elaboration of dose-effect curves for translocations and their implications in biological dosimetry of past exposures. To establish dose-effect curves, peripheral blood samples were irradiated with 60Co gamma rays at ten different doses and the yield of translocations analyzed by FISH was considered in all cells and in stable cells (those without dicentrics, acentrics or rings). To discriminate transmissible translocations, the dose- effect curve for total apparently simple translocations in stable cells was chosen as the reference. In stable cells, dose- effect curves for apparently simple translocations without pseudosimple and complex-derived one-way patterns, tAbtBa and total translocations were obtained. None of these curves differed from the reference curve. When all cells were considered, only the curve for total translocations was significantly different from the reference curve. From the results obtained it can be concluded that the use of dose-effect curves for apparently simple translocations in stable cells and in all cells will give similar dose estimates in retrospective biological dosimetry studies. However, the use of dose-effect curves for total translocations in all cells will lead to underestimations of the dose mainly at high doses.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and leukemogenesis.	The granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) plays an important role in normal granulopoiesis. Its functions are mediated by specific receptors on the surface of responsive cells and, upon ligand binding, several cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases are activated. The cytoplasmic region proximal to the membrane of the G-CSF receptor (G-CSF-R) transduces proliferative and survival signals, whereas the distal carboxy-terminal region transduces maturation signals and suppresses the receptor's proliferative signals. Mutations in the G-CSF-R gene resulting in truncation of the carboxy-terminal region have been detected in a subset of patients with severe congenital neutropenia who developed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). In addition, the AML1-ETO fusion protein, expressed in leukemic cells harboring the t(8;21), disrupt the physiological function of transcription factors such as C/EBPalpha and C/EBPepsilon, which in turn deregulate G-CSF-R expression. The resulting high levels of G-CSF-R and G-CSF-dependent cell proliferation may be associated with pathogenesis of AML with t(8;21). Moreover, in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that G-CSF may act as a co-stimulus augmenting the response of PML-RARalpha acute promyelocytic leukemia cells to all-trans-retinoic acid treatment. Finally, in the PLZF-RARalpha acute promyelocytic leukemia transgenic model, G-CSF deficiency suppressed leukemia development. Altogether, these data suggest that the G-CSF signaling pathway may play a role in leukemogenesis.
Prenatal diagnosis of de novo trisomy 1(q21-qter)der(Y)t(Y;1) in a malformed live born.	To present the prenatal diagnosis case of pure trisomy 1q21-qter with translocation to chromosome Y in all cells analysed.
Prenatal diagnosis of interstitially satellited 6p.	To present the prenatal diagnosis of de novo interstitially satellited 6p and a review of the literature.
Insertions generating the 5'RUNX1/3'CBFA2T1 gene in acute myeloid leukemia cases show variable breakpoints.	Translocation t(8;21)(q22;q22) is a common karyotypic abnormality detected in about 15% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases. The rearrangement results in fusion of the RUNX1 (also known as AML1) and CBFA2T1 (also known as ETO) genes, generating a 5'RUNX1/3'CBFA2T1 transcriptionally active fusion gene on derivative chromosome 8, but some cases with ins(21;8) and ins(8;21) have been observed. However, a detailed breakpoint characterization of the insertion events has never been reported. In the present article, we describe six insertion events among 82 (7.3%) AML cases characterized by the RUNX1/CBFA2T1 fusion. Using FISH experiments with appropriate bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) and P1 artificial chromosome (PAC) probes, we were able to perform a detailed molecular cytogenetic characterization of one case with ins(8;21) and five with ins(21;8). Our analysis revealed that insertions generating the 5'RUNX1/3'CBFA2T1 gene showed variable breakpoints; the size of the inserted elements ranged from 2.4 to 44 Mb.
Chromosomes and speciation in Mus musculus domesticus.	Thirty years after its identification, the model of chromosomal speciation in Mus musculus domesticus is reevaluated using the methods of population biology, molecular cytogenetics and functional genomics. Three main points are considered: (1) the structural predisposition of M. m. domesticus chromosomes to Robertsonian fusion; (2) the impediment of structural heterozygosity to gene flow between populations of mice with karyotypes rearranged by Robertsonian fusion and between them and populations with the standard all-acrocentric 40-chromosome karyotype; (3) the selective advantage of chromosomal novelty, essential for the attainment of homozygosis and the rapid fixation of the new karyotype in the population.
Case of B-cell lymphoma with rearrangement of the BCL1, BCL2, BCL6, and c-MYC genes.	We managed a peculiar case of lymphoma showing immunohistochemical overexpression of cyclin D1. At initial examination the patient had meningeal lymphomatosis and general lymphadenopathy. Histologic examination of biopsy specimens of inguinal lymph nodes showed tumor cells and vague nodular growth resembling lymphoblasts. The results of flow cytometric analysis were positive for CD10, CD20, CD103, and immunoglobulin G (IgG) and Ig kappa and were negative for CD5, CD23, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase activity. Results of immunohistochemical analysis of paraffin-embedded specimens were positive for cyclin D1 and Bcl2 in the tumor cells. Sixty percent of tumor cells had positive results for MIB1/Ki67. Cytogenetic and molecular studies revealed tumor cells simultaneously had t(14;18)(q32;q21), t(11;22)(q13;q11), t(8;14)(q24;q32), and t(3;14)(q27;q32) with the rearrangement of BCL1, BCL2, BCL6, and c-MYC genes. Lymphadenopathy showed a quick and complete response to doxorubicin-containing systemic chemotherapy with rituximab, but the central nervous system disease progressed and killed the patient.
From cytogenetics to cytogenomics of adipose tissue tumors: 2. Malignant adipose tissue tumors]	Malignant adipose tissue tumors, also called liposarcomas, are the most common sarcoma of adult life. They may be hard to distinguish from benign adipose tissue tumors as well as from other types of sarcomas. Well-differentiated liposarcomas and myxoid liposarcomas are the two histological subtypes that have been best characterized at the genetic level. The defining genetic features of well-differentiated liposarcoma cells are supernumerary circular ("ring") and giant linear rod chromosomes. These rings and giant chromosomes contain amplification of the 12q14-15 region, including the MDM2 gene, associated with coamplification of various other chromosomal regions. In addition, they most often lack alpha-satellite centromeric sequences. The detection of MDM2 amplification is a valuable tool for the differential diagnosis between well-differentiated liposarcomas and lipomas. Dedifferentiated liposarcomas usually present with patterns of MDM2 amplification similar to those observed in well-differentiated liposarcomas. In addition, recent CGH-array studies suggest that co-amplification of MDM2 with the 6q23-25 region might be a specific feature. Myxoid and round-cell liposarcomas are characterized by a translocation t(12;16)(q13;p11) that fuses the DDIT3 and FUS genes. A rare variant translocation t(12;22) that fuses DDIT3 with EWS has also been described. The genetics of pleomorphic liposarcoma is still obscure. Pleomorphic liposarcomas show complex karyotypes with many numerical and structural chromosomal aberrations. To date, no specific molecular abnormality has been identified.
New concepts in the regulation of an ancient reaction: transposition by RAG1/RAG2.	The lymphoid-specific factors, recombination-activating gene 1 (RAG1) and RAG2, initiate V(D)J recombination by introducing DNA double-stand breaks at specific sites in the genome. In addition to this critical endonuclease activity, the RAG proteins catalyze other chemical reactions that can affect the outcome of V(D)J recombination, one of which is transposition. While the transposition activity of the RAG proteins is thought to have been critical for the evolution of modern antigen-receptor loci, it has also been proposed to contribute to chromosomal translocations and lymphoid malignancy. A major challenge has been to determine how the transposition activity of the RAG proteins is regulated in vivo. Although a variety of mechanisms have been suggested by recent studies, a clear resolution of this issue remains elusive.
Aberrant Bcl6 protein expression in mantle cell lymphoma.	Mantle cell lymphoma is routinely considered as a Bcl6-negative B-cell lymphoma carrying the translocation t(11;14). Here we describe a series of five Bcl6-positive mantle cell lymphoma cases, including three classic and two blastoid variants. The proliferative index of these cases, measured with the Ki-67 antibody, was slightly higher than in Bcl6-negative mantle cell lymphoma cases (32.2 vs. 23.7%) Bcl6 expression was associated with translocations involving 3q27 in four of the five cases and an extra copy of the BCL6 gene in the fifth. A mutational study of the major mutational cluster in the BCL6 gene revealed no increased mutation rate, except in one case. One of the three cases displayed a high mutational index in the IgVH gene, suggesting exposure to a germinal center microenvironment. Chromosomal alterations involving 3q27 seem to be responsible for this increased Bcl6 expression, which needs to be considered when Bcl6 is used in lymphoma diagnosis.
Chromosomal alterations in breast cancer revealed by multicolour fluorescence in situ hybridization.	The aim of this study was to characterise cytogenetically, breast cancer cell lines and primary tumours to identify chromosomal regions of interest in breast cancer. Multicolour fluorescence in situ hybridization (MFISH) and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) were used to karyotype five established breast cancer cell lines and two short-term primary tumour cultures. Chromosome 8 was identified as a frequent target for aberrations in all cell lines and one primary culture by MFISH and CGH. CGH identified frequent gains of 1q (all samples) and 14q (all cell lines) and deletion of 22q (all samples). MFISH revealed a t(9;17) translocation in both primary tumours and the T47D cell line. MFISH analysis of the cell lines revealed a significant number of translocations previously unidentified in other studies using similar techniques, highlighting the necessity of utilising data from both primary cultures and established cell lines when investigating complex cytogenetic aberrations using MFISH and CGH.
Expression of SMRTbeta promotes ligand-induced activation of mutated and wild-type retinoid receptors.	Nuclear receptors are ligand-modulated transcription factors regulated by interactions with corepressors and coactivators, whose functions are not fully understood. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by a translocation, t(15;17), that produces a PML/RARalpha fusion oncoprotein, whose abnormal transcriptional function is successfully targeted by pharmacologic levels of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). Mutations in the ligand-binding domain of PML/RARalpha that confer resistance to ATRA have been studied by expression in nonhematopoietic cells, such as Cos-1. Here, we show that ATRA binding and transcriptional activation by the same PML/RARalpha mutant differ markedly between nonhematopoietic and leukemic cell lines. Differential expression of the corepressor isoform silencing mediator for retinoid and thyroid receptors beta (SMRTbeta) correlates with increased ligand binding and transcription by the mutant PML/RARalpha. Transient and stable overexpression of SMRTbeta in hematopoietic cells that only express SMRTalpha increased ATRA binding, ligand-induced transcription, and ATRA-induced cell differentiation. This effect may not be limited to abnormal nuclear receptors, because overexpression of SMRTbeta increased ATRA-induced binding and transcriptional activation of wild-type receptors PML/RARalpha and RARalpha. Our results suggest a novel role for the SMRTbeta isoform whereby its cell-specific expression may influence the binding and transcriptional capacities of nuclear receptors, thus providing new evidence of distinct functions of corepressor isoforms and adding complexity to transcriptional regulation.
A cytogenetic method for stacking gene pairs in common wheat.	The potential for non-reciprocal Robertsonian translocations of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) to assist in the stacking of genes was assessed from a study of their cytological and genetic behaviour. To obtain translocations, a double monosomic (3B+5A; 2n=40=19ii+2i) was crossed reciprocally with a contrasting disomic. Individuals inheriting a broken monosome were identified from the loss of one arm-specific DNA marker coupled with retention of a marker for the opposite arm. No double breaks (potential translocations) were found in 180 cross progeny recovered from pollen of the double monosomic but two instances (loss of 5AL plus 3BS; loss of 5AL plus 3BL) were found in 251 progeny recovered from ovules. Meiotic pairing and multi-color genome-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization (mcGISH) showed that each plant with a double break contained one translocated chromosome between the A and B genomes that had rejoined at the centromere and that formed a trivalent (19ii+ liii) in about 83% of PMC. Most trivalents (approximately 92%) aligned at metaphase in a 'V' configuration(alternate disjunction) while the rest aligned in linear 'I'(adjacent disjunction) or ambiguous 'L' configurations. Genetic analysis of a testcross of these 'fusion monosomics' showed that this preferential co-orientation of the trivalent influenced the assortment of the chromosome arms involved. Loci that were located in the hemizygous ends of the 'V' trivalent showed strong quasi-linkage in that most ovules from the female testcross carried relevant DNA markers either from both standard chromosomes or from neither. This shows that, in most cases, the two standard chromosomes assorted to the same pole while the fused monosome segregated to the opposite pole. For heterozygous loci (present both on the fusion monosome and the standard chromosomes) assortment was either independent or showed partial linkage to the hemizygous arm depending on the reported recombination distance from centromere. Marker assortment was further distorted in male testcrosses and in doubled haploids (made from the fusion monosomics by the maize method) by the strong selective advantage of pollen or haploids that inherited the standard chromosomes rather than the deficiencies. This genetic data shows that under the combined influence of alternate disjunction and natural selection, progeny of fusion monosomics will revert to the standard disomic arrangement, fixing the gene content of both hemizygous arms in the process. Thus, any pair of genes could be targeted for joint fixation by isolating the fusion monosome that will link them temporarily in a segregating population.
t(12;17)(p13;q21) in early pre-B acute lymphoid leukemia.	Structural rearrangements involving the short arm of chromosome 12 occur in 10% of cases of childhood acute lymphoid leukemia. The translocation t(12;17)(p13;q21), an uncommon 12p abnormality, was identified in five of 2620 cases (0.2%) successfully karyotyped by the Pediatric Oncology Group or St Jude Children's Research Hospital. All five cases were classified as early pre-B; however, CD10 (common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen) was expressed at lower levels than other markers of B-cell lineage. Two cases also expressed the myeloid-associated antigen CD33. Leukemic cells were pseudodiploid in four cases, with an extra chromosome 21 in the fifth case. All of these patients achieved complete remission. Two relapsed during subsequent therapy, and three remain in continuous remission for greater than or equal to 20 months.
Cloning and characterization of a vasopressin V2 receptor and possible link to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.	The antidiuretic effect of arginine vasopressin (AVP) is mediated by renal-type (V2) receptors linked to adenylyl cyclase. We report here the cloning of the rat kidney V2 AVP receptor complementary DNA that encodes a 370-amino-acid protein with a transmembrane topography characteristic of G protein-coupled receptors, and with similarity to the V1a (hepatic) AVP receptor in its seven membrane-spanning domains. Expression of the cloned cDNA in mammalian cells showed specific ligand binding and activity characteristic of the native V2 AVP receptor. The receptor messenger RNA is detected only in the kidney. The human V2 receptor gene has been localized to the long arm of the X chromosome close to the locus for nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, an X-linked recessive disorder characterized by renal resistance to the antidiuretic action of AVP.
Prenatal genetic diagnosis in 3000 amniocenteses.	We analyzed 3000 consecutive amniocenteses for prenatal diagnosis to assess the frequency of abnormalities, safety of the procedure, technical and interpretive difficulties and overall diagnostic accuracy. Chromosomal abnormalities were detected in 2.4 per cent of the 2404 pregnancies tested because of advanced maternal age (greater than or equal to 35 years), in 1.2 per cent of 240 monitored because of prior trisomy 21 and in 9.1 per cent of 55 examined for other cytogenetic indications. Mosaicism was detected in 0.4 per cent, and unexpected translocations in 0.4 per cent. Amniotic fluid was obtained on the first attempt in 99.3 per cent of the last 1000 cases, and cultures established from 99.7 per cent of patients attending our clinic. The fluid was discolored in 1.2 per cent of patients, a quarter of whom had missed abortions. The rate of spontaneous abortion after amniocentesis was 1.5 per cent. There were 14 diagnostic errors, six serious enough to affect the outcome of pregnancy. The karyotyping error rate was 0.07 per cent. We conclude that prenatal diagnosis is safe, highly reliable and extremely accurate.
Functional gene expression analysis of clonal plasma cells identifies a unique molecular profile for light chain amyloidosis.	Immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis (AL) is characterized by a clonal expansion of plasma cells within the bone marrow. Gene expression analysis was used to identify a unique molecular profile for AL using enriched plasma cells (CD138+) from the bone marrow of 24 patients with AL and 28 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and 6 healthy controls. Class prediction analysis (PAM) revealed a subset of 12 genes, which included TNFRSF7 (CD27), SDF-1, and PSMA2, that distinguished between these 2 groups with an estimated and observed accuracy of classification of 92%. This model was validated with an independent dataset of 11 patients with AL and 12 patients with MM with 87% accuracy. Differential expression for the most discriminant genes in the 12-gene subset was validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and protein expression analysis, which upheld the observations from the micro-array expression data. Functional analyses using a novel network mapping software revealed a number of potentially significant pathways that were dysregulated in patients with AL, with those regulating proliferation, apoptosis, cell signaling, chemotaxis, and migration being substantially represented. This study provides new insight into the molecular profile of clonal plasma cells and its functional relevance in the pathogenesis of light chain amyloidosis.
Partial trisomy of chromosome 10(q22-q24) due to maternal insertional translocation (15;10).	Interchromosomal insertional translocations are rare chromosome rearrangements with an incidence of about 1:80,000 live births. We report on the clinical and cytogenetic findings of a newborn baby with partial trisomy 10q22-10q24 due to a maternal insertional translocation 15;10. Partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 10 is a distinctive chromosome aberration characterized by prenatal-onset growth retardation and craniofacial, skeletal, and other somatic anomalies. Most cases are unbalanced products from reciprocal chromosome translocations, and insertional translocations are rarely involved. The proband was initially referred because of severe intrauterine growth retardation, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using painting probes confirmed the maternal balanced (15;10) insertion.
Activation of mitochondrial apoptotic pathway in mantle cell lymphoma: high sensitivity to mitoxantrone in cases with functional DNA-damage response genes.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a mature B-cell proliferation characterized by the presence of translocation t(11;14)(q13;q32), an aggressive clinical course, and poor response to chemotherapy. The majority of drugs currently used in the treatment of lymphoproliferative disorders induce cell death by triggering apoptosis, but few data concerning drug-induced apoptosis in MCL have been reported. We have analysed the mechanisms of drug-induced cell death in four cell lines with the t(11;14) and in primary cells from 10 patients with MCL. Mitoxantrone, a topoisomerase II inhibitor, induced a strong cytotoxic effect in three cell lines (JVM-2, REC-1, and Granta 519), and in primary MCL cells. This cytotoxic effect due to apoptosis induction was observed despite the presence of either p53 or ATM abnormalities. However, no cytotoxic effect was detected after incubation with DNA-damaging agents in the NCEB-1 cell line, carrying p53 and ATM alterations, despite the presence of functional mitochondrial machinery. These results support that mitoxantrone can be effective in the treatment of MCL but that this activity requires the integrity of functional DNA-damage response genes.
Williams-Beuren syndrome critical region-5/non-T-cell activation linker: a novel target gene of AML1/ETO.	The chromosomal translocation t(8;21) fuses the AML1 (RUNX1) gene on chromosome 21 and the ETO gene on chromosome 8 in human acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs), resulting in expression of the chimeric transcription factor AML1/ETO. AML1/ETO-mediated dysregulation of target genes critical for hematopoietic differentiation and proliferation is thought to contribute to the leukemic phenotype. Several mechanisms, including recruitment of histone deacetylases (HDACs) to AML1 target genes, may be responsible for altered gene expression. We used an ecdysone-inducible expression system in the human monoblastic U-937 cell line to isolate genes that were differentially expressed upon induction of AML1/ETO expression. By representational difference analysis (cDNA-RDA), we identified 26 genes whose expression levels were significantly modulated following AML1/ETO induction for 48 h. None of these genes has previously been described as a target of AML1, ETO or AML1/ETO. One gene downregulated by AML1/ETO in vitro, Williams Beuren syndrome critical region 5 (WBSCR5), was expressed in primary t(8;21)-negative AML blasts but not in primary t(8;21)-positive AML blasts, strongly implying a role of this gene in the phenotype of t(8;21)-positive AML. Four upregulated and four downregulated genes were further studied with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), an inducer of differentiation of U-937 cells, and Trichostatin A (TSA), an HDAC inhibitor. Three out of eight genes including WBSCR5 were regulated during ATRA-induced monocytic differentiation of U-937 cells, however, none of them antagonistically, upon both ATRA treatment and AML1/ETO induction. AML1/ETO-associated dysregulation of gene expression was not mediated by a TSA-sensitive mechanism. The identified genes provide a useful model to study the mechanism by which the AML1/ETO fusion protein exerts its function in transcriptional dysregulation in AML. The possible role of WBSCR5 in normal and malignant hematopoiesis warrants further study.
Transmission ratio distortion in offspring of mouse heterozygous carriers of a (7.18) Robertsonian translocation.	Transmission ratio distortion (TRD) is defined as a significant departure from expected Mendelian ratios of inheritance of an allele or chromosome. TRD is observed among specific regions of the mouse and human genome and is frequently associated with chromosome rearrangements such as Robertsonian (Rb) chromosomes. We intercrossed mice heterozygous for a (7.18) Rb translocation and genotyped chromosomes 7 and 18 in 1812 individuals, 47% of which were informative for chromosome segregation. We substantiated previous findings that females were less likely than expected to transmit the Rb chromosome to their offspring. Surprisingly, however, we report that heterozygous males transmitted the Rb translocation chromosome significantly more frequently than the acrocentrics. The transmission of the Rb chromosome was not significantly influenced by either the sex of the Rb grandparent or the strain of the Rb.
Deregulated expression of the Myc cellular oncogene drives development of mouse "Burkitt-like" lymphomas from naive B cells.	Chromosomal translocations juxtaposing immunoglobulin (Ig) and MYC genes are the hallmarks of human Burkitt lymphoma (BL), with deregulated MYC expression being a critical factor in pathogenesis. By inserting an intact mouse Myc gene into the mouse genome, proximal to the Ig enhancer Emu, the effect of a precise mimic of the major t(8;14) translocation of human endemic BL (eBL) could be investigated. Knock-in mice developed IgM-positive B-cell tumors, with most being typical of eBL by histology and immunophenotype, including expression of the germinal center (GC)-associated protein, BCL6. Unlike eBL, however, analysis of Ig V(H) sequences revealed no significant level of somatic mutation. Thus, constitutive expression of Myc in the knock-in mice is apparently able to induce "Burkitt-like" lymphomas before antigen stimulation and formation of a GC. In contrast, human eBL development occurs in a GC or post-GC site with a likely contribution to pathogenesis from Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and other epigenetic factors.
Therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia-like MLL rearrangements are induced by etoposide in primary human CD34+ cells and remain stable after clonal expansion.	Rearrangements involving the MLL gene on chromosome band 11q23 are a hallmark of therapy-related acute myeloid leukemias following treatment with topoisomerase II poisons including etoposide. Therapy-related and de novo genomic translocation breakpoints cluster within a well-characterized 8.3-kb fragment of MLL. Repair of etoposide-stabilized DNA topoisomerase II covalent complexes may initiate MLL rearrangements observed in patients. We used a culture system of primary human hematopoietic CD34+ cells and inverse polymerase chain reaction to characterize the spectrum of stable genomic rearrangements promoted by etoposide exposure originating within an MLL translocation hotspot in therapy-related leukemia. Alterations to the region were observed at a readily detectable frequency in etoposide-treated cells. Illegitimate repair events after minimal repair included MLL tandem duplications and translocations, with minor populations of deletions or insertions. In stably repaired cells that proliferated for 10 to 14 days, the significant majority of illegitimate events were MLL tandem duplications, and several deletions, inversions, insertions, and translocations. Thus, etoposide promotes specific rearrangements of MLL consistent with the full spectrum of oncogenic events identified in leukemic samples. Although etoposide-initiated rearrangements are frequent, only a small subset of translocations occurs in cells that proliferate significantly.
Y chromosome of D. pseudoobscura is not homologous to the ancestral Drosophila Y.	We report a genome-wide search of Y-linked genes in Drosophila pseudoobscura. All six identifiable orthologs of the D. melanogaster Y-linked genes have autosomal inheritance in D. pseudoobscura. Four orthologs were investigated in detail and proved to be Y-linked in D. guanche and D. bifasciata, which shows that less than 18 million years ago the ancestral Drosophila Y chromosome was translocated to an autosome in the D. pseudoobscura lineage. We found 15 genes and pseudogenes in the current Y of D. pseudoobscura, and none are shared with the D. melanogaster Y. Hence, the Y chromosome in the D. pseudoobscura lineage appears to have arisen de novo and is not homologous to the D. melanogaster Y.
Convergent evolution of chromosomal sex-determining regions in the animal and fungal kingdoms.	Sexual identity is governed by sex chromosomes in plants and animals, and by mating type (MAT) loci in fungi. Comparative analysis of the MAT locus from a species cluster of the human fungal pathogen Cryptococcus revealed sequential evolutionary events that fashioned this large, highly unusual region. We hypothesize that MAT evolved via four main steps, beginning with acquisition of genes into two unlinked sex-determining regions, forming independent gene clusters that then fused via chromosomal translocation. A transitional tripolar intermediate state then converted to a bipolar system via gene conversion or recombination between the linked and unlinked sex-determining regions. MAT was subsequently subjected to intra- and interallelic gene conversion and inversions that suppress recombination. These events resemble those that shaped mammalian sex chromosomes, illustrating convergent evolution in sex-determining structures in the animal and fungal kingdoms.
A genetic screen to isolate type III effectors translocated into pepper cells during Xanthomonas infection.	The bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria (Xcv) uses a type III secretion system (TTSS) to translocate effector proteins into host plant cells. The TTSS is required for Xcv colonization, yet the identity of many proteins translocated through this apparatus is not known. We used a genetic screen to functionally identify Xcv TTSS effectors. A transposon 5 (Tn5)-based transposon construct including the coding sequence for the Xcv AvrBs2 effector devoid of its TTSS signal was randomly inserted into the Xcv genome. Insertion of the avrBs2 reporter gene into Xcv genes coding for proteins containing a functional TTSS signal peptide resulted in the creation of chimeric TTSS effector::AvrBs2 fusion proteins. Xcv strains containing these fusions translocated the AvrBs2 reporter in a TTSS-dependent manner into resistant BS2 pepper cells during infection, activating the avrBs2-dependent hypersensitive response (HR). We isolated seven chimeric fusion proteins and designated the identified TTSS effectors as Xanthomonas outer proteins (Xops). Translocation of each Xop was confirmed by using the calmodulin-dependent adenylate cydase reporter assay. Three xop genes are Xanthomonas spp.-specific, whereas homologs for the rest are found in other phytopathogenic bacteria. XopF1 and XopF2 define an effector gene family in Xcv. XopN contains a eukaryotic protein fold repeat and is required for full Xcv pathogenicity in pepper and tomato. The translocated effectors identified in this work expand our knowledge of the diversity of proteins that Xcv uses to manipulate its hosts.
Xrs2p regulates Mre11p translocation to the nucleus and plays a role in telomere elongation and meiotic recombination.	The Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 (MRX) protein complex plays pivotal roles in meiotic recombination, repair of damaged DNA, telomere elongation, and cell cycle checkpoint control. Xrs2p is known to be essential for all the functions of the complex, but its role in the complex has not been clearly elucidated. A 32-amino acid region near the C terminus of Xrs2p was identified as an Mre11p-binding site. No more function of Xrs2p than translocation of Mre11p from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is necessary for response to DNA damage. However, domains in Xrs2p located both 49 amino acids upstream and 104 amino acids downstream of the Mre11p binding site are required for meiotic recombination and telomere elongation, respectively, in addition to the 32-amino acid region. These findings demonstrate that Xrs2p acts as a specificity factor that allows the MRX complex to function in meiotic recombination and in telomere elongation.
Efficacy of imatinib mesylate (STI571) in chronic neutrophilic leukemia with t(15;19): case report.	Chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) is a rare hematologic disorder, for which there is no standard therapy. Recently, STI (imatinib mesylate) has been shown to be effective in treating patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorder (CMPD) displaying the translocation of the PDGFbetaR gene. Here, we present a case of a patient with CNL carrying t(15;19)(q13;p13.3) who achieved a cytogenetic remission following treatment with imatinib, 400 mg daily. After failure of alpha interferon and hydroxyurea therapy, a durable and complete clinical and cytogenic remission was induced by imatinib. To our knowledge, this is the first case with CNL who showed complete response with cytogenic remission after treatment of imatinib. The mechanism of response to this molecule is unknown in our case (other oncogenes than c-kit, tyrosine kinase, or PDGFR may be involved). The patient remains in complete remission with an excellent performance status after 7 months of therapy. We demonstrate here that imatinib can induce a clinical and cytogenetic response in a case of CNL associated with a novel translocation other than a 5q33 rearrangement. Further studies including the molecular cloning of the t(15;19)(q13;p13.3) will be important in understanding the pathophysiology of CNL with a heterogeneous clinical course and the exploitation of the basic mechanisms of imatinib treatment.
Recurrent adjacent-2 segregation of a familial t(14;21)(q11.2;q11.2): phenotypic comparison of two brothers and a paternal aunt inheriting the der(14).	A 14-year-old boy was referred for a genetics evaluation after high-resolution chromosome analysis showed a small amount of extra material in the proximal long arm of chromosome 21. Five years prior, his karyotype analysis was interpreted as normal with a variant chromosome 21. The patient has short palpebral fissures, strabismus, flat antihelices of the ears, long thumbs with bilaterally absent interphalangeal creases, proximal bilateral 3/4 syndactyly, small testes, hypotonia, mental retardation, and speech problems. He has significant depression and behavioral problems including hyperactivity, aggression, and impulsivity. His 8-year-old brother has more severe behavioral disturbances and depression, but less significant mental retardation. A paternal aunt has mental retardation, is unusually docile, and appears similar to our patient. Chromosome analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) whole chromosome paint of chromosome 21 showed that the patient's father carries a "cryptic" balanced translocation, 46,XY, t(14;21)(q11.2;q11.2), as does the patient's paternal grandmother. Uniparental disomy studies using seven informative polymorphic nucleotide repeat markers from 14q and 21q confirmed biparental inheritance of the number 14 and 21 chromosomes for each brother, and indicate that they and the paternal aunt, all of whom inherited the der(14), are monosomic for proximal 21q and trisomic for proximal 14q. These karyotypes arose through an adjacent-2 segregation in the father on two occasions, and from the paternal grandmother on one occasion. This family is an example of recurrent malsegregation with translocations involving the acrocentrics.
The DEK protein--an abundant and ubiquitous constituent of mammalian chromatin.	The protein DEK is an abundant and ubiquitous chromatin protein in multicellular organisms (not in yeast). It is expressed in more than a million copies/nucleus of rapidly proliferating mammalian cells. DEK has two DNA binding modules of which one includes a SAP box, a sequence motif that DEK shares with a number of other chromatin proteins. DEK has no apparent affinity to specific DNA sequences, but preferentially binds to superhelical and cruciform DNA, and induces positive supercoils into closed circular DNA. The available evidence strongly suggests that DEK could function as an architectural protein in chromatin comparable to the better known classic architectural chromatin proteins, the high-mobility group or HMG proteins.
Identification of various exon combinations of the ews/fli1 translocation: an optimized RT-PCR method for paraffin embedded tissue -- a report by the CWS-study group.	Chromosomal translocations t(11;22) (q24;q12) are characteristic of about 80-90 % of Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors [bone and soft tissue Ewing's sarcoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNET)]. They generate ews/fli1 rearrangements showing great diversity in breakpoint exon combination. In about 5 % of Ewing's tumors, ews is fused to the erg gene at 21q22. The various chimeric proteins encoded may function as aberrant oncogenic transcription factors. These specific translocations can be used for exact molecular diagnosis in these poorly differentiated small round-cell tumors. Moreover, the prognostic relevance of different translocational variants has been previously suggested. Furthermore, the sensitive molecular detection of minimal metastatic and residual disease and its clinical significance can be evaluated. To address these questions more definitively in the large number of patients registered in multicenter studies, it is often necessary to access archival paraffin-embedded tumor tissue if no fresh or frozen tumor material is available for analysis by RT (reverse transcription)-PCR. Specific problems arise from formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue due to the degradation of RNA and insufficient extraction efficiency. Therefore, primer distance and product size are limited for successful PCR amplification. This conflicts with the requirement for identification of various possible exon combinations by PCR simultaneously using one single primer pair with larger distance.
Import and export at the nuclear envelope.	Eukaryotic cells transport a myriad of molecules between the nucleus and cytoplasm and have evolved a number of related biochemical pathways to achieve this, many of which have been elucidated in recent years. One central and common component to all the pathways is the NPC. NPC components appear to play vital roles in transport and the NPC is structurally dynamic, but whether its role is as a facilitator, a controller or both is yet to be decided and awaits further analysis on the role of individual components in specific pathways.
Disruption of the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl-transferase gene caused by a translocation in a patient with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.	In this study, we have identified a novel mechanism of mutation involving translocation between the HPRT1 loci and other loci on the X chromosome. In HRT-25's cDNA obtained from a patient with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, the upstream region of exon 3 was amplified, but the full-length region was not amplified. The use of 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends polymerase chain reaction (3'RACE-PCR) for HRT-25 revealed part of intron 3 and an unknown sequence which have not identified the HPRT1 gene starting at the 3' end of exon 3. We analyzed HPRT1 genomic DNA in order to confirm the mutation with the unknown sequence in the genomic DNA. Unknown sequence compared through BLAST analysis of human genome (NCBI; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) showed that at least 0.5 to 0.6-Mb telomeric to HPRT1 on chromosome Xq where located near LOC340581. This study provides the molecular basis for the involvement of genomic instability in germ cells.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization characterization of different cryptic BCR-ABL rearrangements in chronic myeloid leukemia.	Using fluorescence in situ hybridization probes, obtained from bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries that relate to sequences either side of the BCR and ABL genes, this study characterized four chronic myeloid leukemia cases with cryptic BCR-ABL rearrangements. Each case showed evidence of a different underlying mechanism: one case showed a microinsertion of BCR into ABL, another a microinsertion of ABL into BCR, and the third showed a complex rearrangement including deletion of adjacent flanking sequences, consistent with the reverse translocation model of cryptic rearrangement. The fourth case also showed evidence of a more complex rearrangement involving chromosome 1.
Complex translocation (8;12;21): a new variant of t(8;21) in acute myeloid leukemia.	Variants of the t(8;21)(q22;q22) involving chromosomes 8, 21, and other chromosomes account for approximately 3% of all t(8;21)(q22;q22) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. In this paper, we report a case of AML-M2 with a t(8;12;21)(q22;p12 approximately p13;q22) associated with chromosomal abnormalities, including loss of the Y chromosome and trisomy 8q22 approximately qter. Using a dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis with ETO and AML1 probes, we demonstrated an ETO/AML1 fusion signal on the derivative chromosome 8. Using whole painting probes for chromosomes 8 and 12, we demonstrated a three-way translocation, t(8;12;21)(q22;p12 approximately p13;q22). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis showed the presence of AML1/ETO fusion transcript. The present case highlights the importance of the combination of approaches, i.e., standard karyotyping, FISH, and RT-PCR, for the detection of variants of t(8;21)(q22;q22), shedding light on region 8q22 approximately qter which could harbor potential genes responsible for leukemogenesis.
Changes in metal levels and chromosome aberrations in the peripheral blood of patients after metal-on-metal hip arthroplasty.	A prospective study was performed to investigate changes in metal levels and chromosome aberrations in patients within 2 years of receiving metal-on-metal hip arthroplasties. There was a statistically significant increase of cobalt and chromium concentrations, with a small increase in molybdenum, in whole blood at 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery. There was also a statistically significant increase of both chromosome translocations and aneuploidy in peripheral blood lymphocytes at 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery. The changes were generally progressive with time, but the change in aneuploidy was much greater than in chromosome translocations. No statistically significant correlations were found in secondary analyses between chromosome translocation indices and cobalt or chromium concentration in whole blood. Although the clinical consequences of these changes, if any, are unknown, future epidemiological studies could usefully include direct comparisons of patients with implants of different composition.
Severe, neonatal-onset OTC deficiency in twin sisters with a de novo balanced reciprocal translocation t(X;5)(p21.1;q11).	OTC deficiency, the most common urea cycle defect, is transmitted as a partially dominant X-linked trait. The most severe form of the disease, however, is usually restricted to males. We report on monozygotic female twins with severe neonatal-onset OTC deficiency and a de novo balanced reciprocal translocation t(X;5)(p21.1;q11). Disruption of the OTC gene on the derivative X-chromosome was confirmed by FISH analysis. Consistent inactivation of the normal X could be demonstrated by RGB staining. Manifestation of X-linked recessive disorders in females due to a balanced reciprocal X-autosome translocation has previously been described in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and several other disorders but not in OTC deficiency. This report emphasizes the importance of chromosome analysis in any female manifesting severe OTC deficiency.
Chromosome 3 translocations and familial renal cell cancer.	Renal cell carcinomas (RCCs) occur in both sporadic and familial forms. In a subset of families the occurrence of RCCs co-segregates with the presence of constitutional chromosome 3 translocations. Previously, such co-segregation phenomena have been widely employed to identify candidate genes in various hereditary (cancer) syndromes. Here we survey the translocation 3-positive RCC families that have been reported to date and the subsequent identification of its respective candidate genes using positional cloning strategies. Based on allele segregation, loss of heterozygosity and mutation analyses of the tumors, a multi-step model for familial RCC development has been generated. This model is relevant for (i) understanding familial tumorigenesis and (ii) rational patient management. In addition, a high throughput microarray-based strategy is presented that will enable the rapid identification of novel positional candidate genes via a single step procedure. The functional consequences of the (fusion) genes that have been identified so far, the multi-step model and its consequences for clinical diagnosis, the identification of persons at risk and genetic counseling in RCC families are discussed.
Compartmentalization of the yeast meiotic nucleus revealed by analysis of ectopic recombination.	As yeast cells enter meiosis, chromosomes move from a centromere-clustered (Rabl) to a telomere-clustered (bouquet) configuration and then to states of progressive homolog pairing where telomeres are more dispersed. It is uncertain at which stage of this process sequences commit to recombine with each other. Previous analyses using recombination between dispersed homologous sequences (ectopic recombination) support the view that, on average, homologs are aligned end to end by the time of commitment to recombination. We have undertaken further analyses incorporating new inserts, chromosome rearrangements, an alternate mode of recombination initiation, and mutants that disrupt nuclear structure or telomere metabolism. Our findings support previous conclusions and reveal that distance from the nearest telomere is an important parameter influencing recombination between dispersed sequences. In general, the farther dispersed sequences are from their nearest telomere, the less likely they are to engage in ectopic recombination. Neither the mode of initiating recombination nor the formation of the bouquet appears to affect this relationship. We suggest that aspects of telomere localization and behavior influence the organization and mobility of chromosomes along their entire length, during a critical period of meiosis I prophase that encompasses the homology search.
Comparing the linkage maps of the close relatives Arabidopsis lyrata and A. thaliana.	We have constructed a genetic map of Arabidopsis lyrata, a self-incompatible relative of the plant model species A. thaliana. A. lyrata is a diploid (n = 8) species that diverged from A. thaliana (n = 5) approximately 5 MYA. Mapping was conducted in a full-sib progeny of two unrelated F(1) hybrids between two European populations of A. lyrata ssp. petraea. We used the least-squares method of the Joinmap program for map construction. The gross chromosomal differences between the two species were most parsimoniously explained with three fusions, two reciprocal translocations, and one inversion. The total map length was 515 cM, and the distances were 12% larger than those between corresponding markers in the linkage map of A. thaliana. The 72 markers, consisting of microsatellites and gene-based markers, were spaced on average every 8 cM. Transmission ratio distortion was extensive, and most distortions were specific to each reciprocal cross, suggesting cytoplasmic interactions. We estimate locations and most probable genotype frequencies of transmission ratio distorting loci (TRDL) with a Bayesian method and discuss the possible reasons for the observed distortions.
Silencing of unsynapsed meiotic chromosomes in the mouse.	In Neurospora, DNA unpaired in meiosis both is silenced and induces silencing of all DNA homologous to it. This process, called meiotic silencing by unpaired DNA, is thought to protect the host genome from invasion by transposable elements. We now show that silencing of unpaired (unsynapsed) chromosome regions also takes place in the mouse during both male and female meiosis. The tumor suppressor protein BRCA1 is implicated in this silencing, mirroring its role in the meiotic silencing of the X and Y chromosomes in normal male meiosis. These findings impact on the interpretation of the relationship between synaptic errors and sterility in mammals and extend our understanding of the biology of Brca1.
Is endemic Burkitt's lymphoma an alliance between three infections and a tumour promoter?	Malaria and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), recognised cofactors for endemic Burkitt's lymphoma, are ubiquitous within the lymphoma belt of Africa, and, unless other cofactors are involved, the tumour should be much more common than it is. Malaria and EBV alone cannot account for the occasional shifting foci and space-time case clusters of endemic Burkitt's lymphoma. Arboviruses and plant tumour promoters are other possible local cofactors that could explain such characteristics. The geographical and age distributions of endemic Burkitt's lymphoma parallel those of potentially oncogenic, mosquito-borne arboviruses. Arboviruses seem to be associated with case clusters of endemic Burkitt's lymphoma, and symptoms compatible with arbovirus infection have been seen immediately before the onset of the tumour. RNA and DNA viruses, including EBV, are promoted by extracts of a commonly used plant, Euphorbia tirucalli, the distribution of which coincides with the boundaries of the lymphoma belt. Extracts of E tirucalli are tumour promoters and can induce the characteristic 8;14 translocation of endemic Burkitt's lymphoma in EBV-infected cell-lines. They also activate latent EBV in infected cells, enhance EBV-mediated cell transformation, and modulate EBV-specific immunity.
Cryptic translocations involving chromosome 20 in polycythemia vera.	A systematic cytogenetic study was performed in 49 patients with polycythemia vera (PV) in order to investigate the occurrence of subtelomeric rearrangements of chromosome 20, the most frequently rearranged chromosome in this myeloproliferative disorder. Partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 20 was observed in two patients and two cryptic translocations, t(1;20)(p36;q13) and t(18;20)(p11;q13) in two others, all previously treated. The localization of the breakpoints of the translocated 20 chromosomes was different in the two translocations, as shown by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to metaphase chromosomes using BAC clones. Although infrequent (2/49), cryptic translocations of chromosome 20 deserve to be detected as preliminary to identification of molecular defects in PV.
Partial trisomy 18q11.2-->qter due to de novo unbalanced translocation of chromosomes 15 and 18 analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization.	This report presents a case with partial trisomy 18q resulting from de novo unbalanced translocation of chromosomes 15 and 18 displaying the features of pure trisomy. This is the first reported case with partial trisomy 18q due to unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 18. Clinical findings of our case have been compared with the reported cases' had partial trisomy 18q and the importance to recognize the cases with chromosome abnormalities to give genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis for subsequent pregnancies has emphasized.
A submicroscopic unbalanced subtelomeric translocation t(2p;10q) identified by fluorescence in situ hybridization: fetus with increased nuchal translucency and normal standard karyotype with later growth and developmental delay, rhombencephalosynapsis (RES).	Reaching an accurate diagnosis in children with mental retardation associated or not with dysmorphic signs is important to make precise diagnosis of a syndrome and for genetic counseling. A female case with severe growth and development delay, dysmorphic features and feeding disorder is presented. Antenataly, the fetus was observed to have increased nuchal translucency and a slight hypoplastic cerebellum. A standard karyotype was normal. RES and a submicroscopic unbalanced subtelomeric translocation t(2p; 10q) were demonstrated after birth. We show that within the framework of a collaborative approach, a concerted research of submicroscopic subtelomeric rearrangements should be performed in case of mental retardation associated with facial dysmorphic features, and when other etiologies or non-genetic factors (iatrogenic, toxic, infectious, metabolic...) have been ruled out.
Abl: the prototype of oncogenic fusion proteins.	Since it was first recognized, chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has always represented a unique model to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the onset and progression of a leukemic process. CML was the first recognized form of cancer to have a strong association with a recurrent chromosomal abnormality, the t(9;22) translocation, which generates the so-called Philadelphia (Ph)-chromosome. Twenty years later, this abnormality was shown to cover a specific molecular defect, a hybrid BCR-ABL gene, strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease through the production of a protein with a constitutive tyrosine-kinase activity. Although we still lack a complete definition of all the transformation pathways activated by Bcr-Abl, the recent introduction into clinical practice of tyrosine kinase inhibitor represents a major breakthrough to the management of CML and, furthermore, promises to usher in molecularly targeted therapy for other types of leukemia, lymphoma and cancer.
Oncogenic derivatives of platelet-derived growth factor receptors.	Platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs) and their ligands, platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs) play critical roles in mesenchymal cell migration and proliferation. In embryogenesis the PDGFR/PDGF system is essential for the correct development of the kidney, cardiovascular system, brain, lung and connective tissue. In adults, PDGFR/PDGF is important in wound healing, inflammation and angiogenesis. Abnormalities of PDGFR/PDGF are thought to contribute to a number of human diseases, and especially malignancy. Constitutive activation of the PDGFRalpha or PDGFRbeta receptor tyrosine kinases is seen in myeloid malignancies as a consequence of fusion to diverse partner genes, and activating mutations of PDGFRalpha are seen in gastrointestinal tumours (GISTs). Autocrine signalling as a consequence of PDGF-B overexpression is clearly implicated in the pathogenesis of dermatofibrosarcoma protruberans (DFSP) and overexpression of PDGFRs and/or their ligands has been described in many solid tumours. PDGFR signalling is inhibited by imatinib mesylate, and this compound has clear clinical activity in patients with myeloid malignancies, GIST and DFSP.
The emerging normal and disease-related roles of anaplastic lymphoma kinase.	Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a receptor tyrosine kinase, the normal role of which remains to be completely elucidated. Although work carried out in mammals suggests a function in neural development, results from studies in Drosophila indicate an additional role in visceral muscle differentiation. The aberrant expression of full-length ALK receptor proteins has been reported in neuroblastomas and glioblastomas, while the occurrence of ALK fusion proteins in anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) has resulted in the identification of the new tumor entity, ALK-positive ALCL. ALK represents one of few examples of a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in oncogenesis in both haematopoietic and non-haematopoietic tumors, given that ALK fusions also occur in the mesenchymal tumor known as inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT). The study of ALK fusion proteins, besides demonstrating their importance in tumor development, has also raised the possibility of new therapeutic treatments for patients with ALK-positive malignancies.
Study on EcoR I fragment polymorphism of the subtelomeric domains within 4q35 and 10q26 with pulsed field gel electrophoresis in the Chinese population]	To elucidate the structural polymorphism of EcoR I fragment within chromosomes 4q35 and 10q26 in the Chinese population and investigate the relationship of plasticity, translocation and somatic mosaicism in these domains with deletion of D4Z4 repeated units.
New effect biomarkers]	The major research goals for researchers developing biomarkers of effect are the development and validation of biomarkers that permit the prediction of the risk of disease in individuals and groups. One important objective is to prevent human cancer. This article reviews the most recent analytical methodologies, validation studies and field trials together with auditing and quality assessment of the necessary data based on scientific grounds. Consideration is given to new developments in the relatively young field of toxicogenomics, possibly leading to the identification of early changes that may lead to both cancer and non-cancer end points. Although the creation and development of reliable databases integrating information from genomic and proteomic research programmes should offer a contribution to the prediction of risks and prevention of diseases related to chemical exposure, the most promising future application of these technologies lies in the molecular diagnosis of diseases whose nosography will probably be redefined.
Pattern robustness of diagnostic gene expression signatures in leukemia.	Microarray technology has been proposed as an addition to the methods in current use for diagnosing leukemia. Before a new technology can be used in a diagnostic setting, the method has to be shown to produce robust results. It is known that, given the technical aspects of specimen sampling and target preparation, global gene expression patterns can change dramatically. Various parameters such as RNA degradation, shipment time, sample purity, and patient age can principally influence measured gene expression. However, thus far, no information has been available on the robustness of a diagnostic gene expression signature. We demonstrate here that for a subset of acute leukemia, expression profiling is applicable in a diagnostic setting, considering various influencing parameters. With the use of a set of differentially expressed genes, that is, a diagnostic gene expression signature, four genetically defined acute myeloid leukemia subtypes with recurrent chromosomal aberrations can clearly be identified. In addition, we show that preparation by different operators and using different sample-handling procedures did not impair the robustness of diagnostic expression signatures. In conclusion, our results provide additional support for the applicability of microarrays in a diagnostic setting, and we have been encouraged to enroll patients in a prospective study in which microarrays will be tested as an additional routine diagnostic method in parallel with standard diagnostic procedures.
Identification of translocatable RNA-binding phloem proteins from melon, potential components of the long-distance RNA transport system.	Phloem proteins (P-proteins) are an enigmatic group of proteins present in most angiosperm species. The best characterized P-proteins (PP1 and PP2) are synthesized in companion cells, transported into sieve elements via pore plasmodesmata and translocated through the plant. Characteristics such as long-distance translocation, RNA-binding activity and capacity of increasing plasmodesmata exclusion size suggest that certain phloem proteins could be involved in RNA transport within the plant, forming translocatable ribonucleoprotein complexes with endogenous or pathogenic RNAs. Long-distance movement of RNA through the phloem is a process known to occur, but both the mechanisms involved and the components constituting this potential information network remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that several melon phloem proteins have a wide RNA-binding activity. Serological assays strongly suggest that one of these proteins is the melon phloem protein 2 (CmmPP2). Mass spectrometry analysis undoubtedly identifies another one as the recently characterized melon phloem lectin (CmmLec17). Grafting experiments demonstrate that the CmmLec17 is a translocatable phloem protein, able to move through intergeneric grafts from melon to pumpkin. Translocatability and RNA-binding activity was also demonstrated for an uncharacterized protein of approximately 14 kDa. In light of these results the possible involvement of these phloem proteins in the long-distance transport of melon RNAs is discussed.
Treatment of follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) represents the most common indolent lymphoma with a median survival of 10 years. A new prognostic index (FLIPI) provides prognostic information at diagnosis and at relapse. Initial treatments combining monoclonal antibody therapy using rituximab with chemotherapy appear to increase the response rate and decrease the risk of relapse with little increase in toxicity. Promising phase III trial results demonstrating improvements in outcome using rituximab have recently been reported. A number of phase II trials have also demonstrated encouraging activity combining radiolabeled antibodies in sequence with chemotherapy. The role of high-dose therapy and autologous transplantation is becoming more defined, with improvements in progression-free survival observed in the upfront and relapsed setting. The application of allogeneic transplantation, once restricted to young otherwise healthy patients has shown encouraging activity in older, relapsed, and refractory patients using nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens. These new treatment options make the management of newly diagnosed patients both exciting and a challenge.
Dominant negative effects of the AML1/ETO fusion oncoprotein.	The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation, present in 10-15% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases results in the production of the AML1/ETO fusion protein. Expression of AML1/ETO in patients or mouse models is not sufficient to induce AML. Despite convincing evidence that AML1/ETO is directly involved in the pathogenesis of AML, the underlying mechanism is not well understood. Genetic and biochemical experiments suggest that AML1/ETO is a dominant inhibitor of the core binding factor (CBF) transcription complex that includes AML1 (RUNX1), the N-terminal fusion partner in the t(8;21). We generated and recently characterized a novel strain of transgenic mice in which the AML1/ETO cDNA was inserted into the Ly-6A gene that encodes Sca1, a well-characterized marker of murine hematopoietic stem cells. Unexpectedly, transgene expression assessed by flow cytometry was significantly lower than predicted in lymphocytes from these mice. We have confirmed this finding at the mRNA level and suggest that this phenotype is a consequence of dominant inhibition of transgene expression by AML1/ETO. The dominant negative characteristics of AML1/ETO may be important for AML pathogenesis and may provide a molecular target for therapeutic intervention.
Identification of a SRC-like tyrosine kinase gene, FRK, fused with ETV6 in a patient with acute myelogenous leukemia carrying a t(6;12)(q21;p13) translocation.	The SRC family of kinases is rarely mutated in primary human tumors. We report the identification of a SRC-like tyrosine kinase gene, FRK (Fyn-related kinase), fused with ETV6 in a patient with acute myelogenous leukemia carrying t(6;12)(q21;p13). Both reciprocal fusion transcripts, ETV6/FRK and FRK/ETV6, were expressed. In ETV6/FRK, exon 4 of ETV6 was fused in-frame to exon 3 of FRK, producing a chimeric protein consisting of the entire oligomerization domain of ETV6 and the kinase domain of FRK. The ETV6/FRK protein was shown to be constitutively autophosphorylated on its tyrosine residues. ETV6/FRK phosphorylated histones H2B and H4 in vitro to a greater extent than did FRK, suggesting it had elevated kinase activity. ETV6/FRK could transform both Ba/F3 cells and NIH3T3 cells, which depended on its kinase activity. Moreover, ETV6/FRK inhibited ETV6-mediated transcriptional repression in a dominant-negative manner. This report provides the first evidence that a SRC-like kinase gene, FRK fused with ETV6, could directly contribute to leukemogenesis by producing an oncoprotein, ETV6/FRK, with dual functions: constitutive activation of the ETV6/FRK tyrosine kinase and dominant-negative modulation of ETV6-mediated transcriptional repression.
Presence of somatic hypermutation and activation-induced cytidine deaminase in acute lymphoblastic leukemia L2 with t(14;18)(q32;q21).	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with L2 (FAB) morphology has rarely been reported to show t(14;18)(q32;q21). We aimed to delineate the stage at which this type of ALL is derived in B-lineage differentiation.
Clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular cytogenetic fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of primary and secondary cutaneous follicular lymphomas.	Although primary cutaneous follicular lymphoma (FL) is considered a distinct variant of FL in the World Health Organization classification ("cutaneous follicle center lymphoma"), its biologic relationship to nodal FL remains controversial. The clinical, morphologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular cytogenetic features of 17 patients with primary cutaneous FL were studied and compared with 16 patients with secondary cutaneous FL. The head and neck region was the most frequent site at initial skin presentation in both the primary and secondary cases. Among the primary cases, 29% of the 31 biopsies were grade 1, 48% grade 2, 13% grade 3, and 10% grade 3 with diffuse large B-cell (DLBCL) areas. Among the secondary cases, 38% of the 29 skin biopsies were grade 1, 45% grade 2, 3% grade 3, and 7% grade 3 with DLBCL areas with two not evaluable. A floral-like pattern was observed in 32% of primary FL but only 5% of secondary cases. Histologic progression was found in 21% of patients. CD10 expression was demonstrated in 90% (27 of 30) of primary cases and 96% (22 of 23) of secondary cases. Bcl-6 was expressed in all cases tested. Bcl-2 expression was detected in 57% (17 of 30) of the primary cases (100% of grade 1, 43% of grade 2, 40% of grade 3), whereas all secondary cases were bcl-2 positive (P=0.0002). The t(14;18) translocation was identified by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in biopsies from 31% (4 of 13) of the patients with primary FL compared with 77% (10 of 13) of those with secondary lymphoma (P <0.05). Seven of the 17 (41%) patients with primary disease had cutaneous relapse, including 1 who also developed nodal disease. Bcl-2 positivity was seen in 4 of these 7 patients. Eight of the 16 (50%) patients with secondary FL had cutaneous relapse. Primary and secondary cutaneous FL share many clinical and phenotypic features, but primary cases may have some distinctive morphologic features, more frequently lack bcl-2 protein, and often lack the t(14;18) translocation. These findings suggest that primary cutaneous FL are distinctive and often but not always have a pathogenesis different from most of nodal and secondary cutaneous FL.
Atypical Burkitt lymphoma arising from follicular lymphoma: demonstration by polymerase chain reaction following laser capture microdissection and by fluorescence in situ hybridization on paraffin-embedded tissue sections.	A 77-year-old man with disseminated lymphadenopathy was referred to our hospital. An inguinal lymph node biopsy specimen had the appearance of composite lymphoma consisting of follicular lymphoma and atypical Burkitt lymphoma. The bone marrow was involved, and chromosomal analysis of the marrow showed t(8;14) and t(14;18) in identical cells. The patient underwent systemic chemotherapy but died of lymphoma 4 months later. Polymerase chain reactions performed on cells obtained from follicular and diffuse components by laser capture microdissection showed the two components to be clonally identical. Moreover, fluorescence in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded tissue sections demonstrated an immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH)/BCL2 translocation signal in both follicular and diffuse components, but an IGH/c-MYC translocation signal in only the diffuse component. Accordingly, the atypical Burkitt lymphoma arose from the follicular lymphoma as a consequence of the additional IGH/c-MYC translocation, then involving the bone marrow.
The Hunter-McAlpine syndrome results from duplication 5q35-qter.	In 1977 Hunter et al. J Med Genet 1977: 14 (6): 430-437, reported a family with six affected members, connected over three generations through unaffected individuals. Subsequently, several other patients purported to have the condition were reported. The condition became known as the Hunter-McAlpine syndrome, and there was debate as to whether or not it was identical to the Ruvalcaba syndrome or a type of tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome. In this article we confirm that the original family and a patient reported by Ades et al. Clin Dysmorphol 1993: 2 (2): 123-130 have cryptic translocations resulting in duplication of 5q35-qter. Similarities are noted between our patients and others in the literature with duplication of this chromosome segment.
Disruption and aberrant expression of HMGA2 as a consequence of diverse chromosomal translocations in myeloid malignancies.	Chromosomal translocations that target HMGA2 at chromosome band 12q14 are seen in a variety of malignancies, notably lipoma, pleomorphic salivary adenoma and uterine leiomyoma. Although some HMGA2 fusion genes have been reported, several lines of evidence suggest that the critical pathogenic event is the expression of truncated HMGA2 isoforms. We report here the involvement of HMGA2 in six patients with myeloid neoplasia, dysplastic features and translocations or an inversion involving chromosome bands 12q13-15 and either 7p12, 8q22, 11q23, 12p11, 14q31 or 20q11. Breaks within or very close to HMGA2 were found in all six cases by molecular cytogenetic analysis, leading to overexpression of this gene as assessed by RT-PCR. Truncated transcripts consisting of HMGA2 exons 1-2 or exons 1-3 spliced to intron-derived sequences were identified in two patients, but were not seen in controls. These findings suggest that abnormalities of HMGA2 play an important and previously unsuspected role in myelodysplasia.
The Kasumi-1 cell line: a t(8;21)-kit mutant model for acute myeloid leukemia.	The Kasumi-1 cell line is an intensively investigated model system of Acute Myeloid Leukemia with t(8;21) translocation, that represents 1 of the 2 main subtypes of Core Binding Factor Leukemia (CBFL). Since establishment in 1991 the Kasumi-1 cell line has provided the tool to study the peculiar molecular, morphologic, immunophenotypic findings of AML with t(8;21) and the functional consequences of the AML1-ETO fusion oncogene on myeloid differentiation. Leukemogenesis involves multiple genetic changes and, as suggested by murine experiments and other findings in humans, AML1-ETO expression may not be sufficient for full blown leukemia. In agreement with the "two hits" model of leukemogenesis, based on the cooperation between 1 class of mutations that impair hematopoietic differentiation and a second class of mutations that confer a proliferative and/or survival advantage to hematopoietic progenitors an activating mutation in the tyrosine kinase domain of the c-kit gene was identified in the AML1/ETO expressing Kasumi-1 cell line. The dosage of the Asn822Lys mutated allele was shown to be about 5-fold compared to the normal allele and c-kit amplification was found to map to minute 4cen-q11 marker chromosomes, likely derived from the extra chromosome 4 recorded in the newly established cell line. The combination of t(8;21) and trisomy 4 leading to enhanced dosage of a mutated kit allele is a feature of a few CBFL patients reproduced by the Kasumi-1 cell model. The Kasumi-1 cell line, paralleling the commitment stage of CBF leukemia also provides a valuable resource to investigate the effect of tyrosine kinase kit mutant on the main KIT-regulated signal transduction pathways, i.e. MAPK, PI3K/AKT and STAT3 and the diverse inhibitory effect exerted by STI 571 on these KIT mutant activated pathways. PI3K-dependent activation of AKT and STAT activation was observed in Kasumi-1 cells. Contrary to the expectations for an amplified tyrosine kinase kit mutant, we found that STI 571 inhibited KIT Asn822Lys tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream JNK and STAT3 effectors in Kasumi-1 cells, but had no effect on constitutive activation of AKT, suggesting that signaling by tyrosine kinases other than KIT may be responsible for its activation in Kasumi-1 cells. Independent findings on the same model system provide complementary insights into designing strategies for treatment of CBF leukemia associated with mutations in the KIT catalytic domain.
Efficacy of screening the intermediate cluster region of the bcl2 gene in follicular lymphomas by PCR.	The t(14;18) translocation is a common finding in nodal follicular B cell lymphomas and diffuse large B cell lymphomas, and results in the overexpression of the antiapoptotic bcl2 protein. This chromosome rearrangement can be detected by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), with most breakpoints in the bcl2 gene occurring within either the major breakpoint region (mbr) or the minor cluster region (mcr). However, recent investigations have revealed several breakpoints between these two regions, which cluster 19 kb 3' of mbr in the "intermediate cluster region" (icr).
Diagnostic tool for the identification of MLL rearrangements including unknown partner genes.	Approximately 50 different chromosomal translocations of the human MLL gene are currently known and associated with high-risk acute leukemia. The large number of different MLL translocation partner genes makes a precise diagnosis a demanding task. After their cytogenetic identification, only the most common MLL translocations are investigated by RT-PCR analyses, whereas infrequent or unknown MLL translocations are excluded from further analyses. Therefore, we aimed at establishing a method that enables the detection of any MLL rearrangement by using genomic DNA isolated from patient biopsy material. This goal was achieved by establishing a universal long-distance inverse-PCR approach that allows the identification of any kind of MLL rearrangement if located within the breakpoint cluster region. This method was applied to biopsy material derived from 40 leukemia patients known to carry MLL abnormalities. Thirty-six patients carried known MLL fusions (34 with der(11) and 2 with reciprocal alleles), whereas 3 patients were found to carry novel MLL fusions to ACACA, SELB, and SMAP1, respectively. One patient carried a genomic fusion between MLL and TIRAP, resulting from an interstitial deletion. Because of this interstitial deletion, portions of the MLL and TIRAP genes were deleted, together with 123 genes located within the 13-Mbp interval between both chromosomal loci. Therefore, this previously undescribed diagnostic tool has been proven successful for analyzing any MLL rearrangement including previously unrecognized partner genes. Furthermore, the determined patient-specific fusion sequences are useful for minimal residual disease monitoring of MLL associated acute leukemias.
Functional interaction of H2AX, NBS1, and p53 in ATM-dependent DNA damage responses and tumor suppression.	Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) mutated (ATM) kinase signals all three cell cycle checkpoints after DNA double-stranded break (DSB) damage. H2AX, NBS1, and p53 are substrates of ATM kinase and are involved in ATM-dependent DNA damage responses. We show here that H2AX is dispensable for the activation of ATM and p53 responses after DNA DSB damage. Therefore, H2AX functions primarily as a downstream mediator of ATM functions in the parallel pathway of p53. NBS1 appears to function both as an activator of ATM and as an adapter to mediate ATM activities after DNA DSB damage. Phosphorylation of ATM and H2AX induced by DNA DSB damage is normal in NBS1 mutant/mutant (NBS1m/m) mice that express an N-terminally truncated NBS1 at lower levels. Therefore, the pleiotropic A-T-related systemic and cellular defects observed in NBS1m/m mice are due to the disruption of the adapter function of NBS1 in mediating ATM activities. While H2AX is required for the irradiation-induced focus formation of NBS1, our findings indicate that NBS1 and H2AX have distinct roles in DNA damage responses. ATM-dependent phosphorylation of p53 and p53 responses are largely normal in NBS1m/m mice after DNA DSB damage, and p53 deficiency greatly facilitates tumorigenesis in NBS1m/m mice. Therefore, NBS1, H2AX, and p53 play synergistic roles in ATM-dependent DNA damage responses and tumor suppression.
Alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome in a 45,X male.	An unbalanced Y;autosome translocation leading to a male with a 45,X karyotype is rare with about 30 published cases. A male with a 45,X karyotype as a result of a unique, submicroscopic, unbalanced Y;16 translocation is presented with alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome.
The complex nature of constitutional de novo apparently balanced translocations in patients presenting with abnormal phenotypes.	To describe the systematic analysis of constitutional de novo apparently balanced translocations in patients presenting with abnormal phenotypes, characterise the structural chromosome rearrangements, map the translocation breakpoints, and report detectable genomic imbalances.
Subtelomeric rearrangements as neutral genomic polymorphisms.	Submicroscopic chromosomal rearrangements affecting telomeres are important aetiological contributors to the development of mental retardation. Results from over 2,500 analysed patients with mental retardation demonstrated that about 5% have a subtelomeric aberration. However, some subtelomeric rearrangements have no phenotypic consequences. Due to the heterogeneity of such rearrangements and to the limited information about which monosomy or trisomy can be tolerated without phenotypic effect, conclusions about the association of a specific aberration and the phenotypical consequences are often hard to draw. We performed a study of subtelomeric aberrations with the aim to provide more insights into the understanding of such rearrangements as neutral genomic polymorphisms. We found two new polymorphisms: a duplication or triplication of the subtelomeric region of the long arm of chromosome 4 and a trisomy of the subtelomeric region of the short arm of chromosome 6 owing to a transposition to chromosome 22. These new data are presented and discussed in the context of the published literature.
A patient with isochromosome 18q, radial-thumb aplasia, thrombocytopenia, and an unbalanced 10;18 chromosome translocation.	We report on the clinical and cytogenetic findings in a newborn with a de novo isochromosome 18q. Radial/thumb aplasia and thrombocytopenia were significant features in addition to multiple congenital anomalies. Comparison with reported cases suggests that the genes for such features are located on the 18q arm. An additional finding of a non-reciprocal translocation between chromosome 18p telomere and chromosome 10q telomere was also observed in a majority of cells examined. This additional rearrangement likely has minimal phenotypic consequences, but does raise the possibility that cryptic translocations of telomeric ends of the deleted arm in isochromosome cases may be more common than appreciated.
Clinicopathologic and molecular genetic characterization of low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma, and cloning of a novel FUS/CREB3L1 fusion gene.	Low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (LGFMS) is an indolent, late-metastasizing malignant soft-tissue tumor that is often mistaken for either more benign or more malignant tumor types. Cytogenetic analyses have identified a recurrent balanced translocation t(7;16) (q32-34;p11), later shown by molecular genetic approaches to result in a FUS/CREB3L2 fusion gene. Whereas preliminary studies suggest that this gene rearrangement is specific for LGFMS, its incidence in this tumor type and the possible existence of variant fusion genes have not yet been addressed. For this purpose, a series of potential LGFMS were obtained from nine different soft-tissue tumor centres and subjected to molecular analysis as well as careful histopathologic review. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis disclosed a FUS/CREB3L2 fusion transcript in 22 of the 23 (96%) cases that remained classified as LGFMS after the histologic re-evaluation and from which RNA of sufficient quality could be extracted, whereas none of the cases that were classified as other tumor types was fusion-positive. In one of the tumors with typical LGFMS appearance, we found that FUS was fused to the CREB3L1 gene instead of CREB3L2. The proteins encoded by these genes both belong to the same basic leucine-zipper family of transcription factors, and display extensive sequence homology in their DNA-binding domains. Thus, it is expected that the novel FUS/CREB3L1 chimera will have a similar impact at the cellular level as the much more common FUS/CREB3L2 fusion protein. Taken together, the results indicate that virtually all LGFMS are characterized by a chimeric FUS/CREB3L2 gene, and that rare cases may display a variant FUS/CREB3L1 fusion.
Frequent aberrations of chromosome 8 in aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	Translocations involving chromosome 8 are the most common aberrations in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). The presence of the typical t(8;14)(q24;q32) or its variants has been confirmed in all cases of Burkitt lymphoma (BL), in some cases of Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL), and in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The alterations lead to deregulated expression of c-myc protein by a chromosomal translocation joining C-MYC gene with sequences from immunoglobulin (Ig) enhancers. The C-MYC gene rearrangement plays an essential role in leukemogenesis of BL and probably plays a part in other aggressive NHLs. The present study was undertaken to compare the cytogenetic features in cases of BL, BLL, and DLBCL. We detected chromosomal aberrations by G-banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) painting in 10 cases of aggressive B-NHL and used FISH to visualize the C-MYC gene rearrangement. Chromosome 8 was most frequently involved in structural aberrations (8/10 cases), and 4 cases showed the typical t(8;14)(q24;q32). Only two of 5 patients suspected of having BL fulfilled all the criteria for this diagnosis; in the others, chromosome 8 was aberrant, but the absence of C-MYC rearrangement or the results of flow cytometry excluded the diagnosis of BL. All BLL cases showed C-MYC overexpression, but only one had a rearrangement of the C-MYC gene; the remaining cases showed other aberrations of chromosome 8. This study indicates that the mechanisms of C-MYC activation involved in BLL can be different from that for the BL.
Primary desmoplastic small round cell tumor of bone: report of a case with cytogenetic confirmation.	We report a case of desmoplastic small round cell tumor occurring in the right ilium of a 13-year-old boy. Morphologically, the neoplasm consisted of small round cells of primitive appearance with a diffuse growth pattern replacing marrow space and eroding bone. Immunohistochemical staining was positive for vimentin, synapsin, CD99 (MIC2 protein), and FLI-1, prompting an initial diagnosis of Ewing sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor. However, a diagnosis of desmoplastic small round cell tumor was rendered after the detection by cytogenetic analysis of the reciprocal chromosomal translocation, t(11;22)(p13;q12), which is uniquely associated with this tumor. This is the first documented instance of desmoplastic small round cell tumor arising in bone.
A reciprocal t(4;9)(q31;p22) in a solitary neurofibroma.	Cytogenetic reports of solitary neurofibromas are rare and, to our knowledge, no clonal reciprocal translocations have been reported in these tumors. Reciprocal chromosome translocations have been identified in a number of solid tumors and can have both diagnostic and prognostic significance. We report the first case of a solitary circumscribed neurofibroma with a (4;9)(q31;p22) balanced reciprocal translocation as the sole cytogenetic abnormality.
Renal carcinomas with the t(6;11)(p21;q12): clinicopathologic features and demonstration of the specific alpha-TFEB gene fusion by immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, and DNA PCR.	A highly distinctive subset of renal neoplasms of children and young adults contains a t(6;11)(p21;q12), a translocation recently been shown to result in fusion of Alpha, a gene on 11q12, with the transcription factor gene TFEB on 6p21. To define the clinicopathologic spectrum of this nascent entity and to establish immunohistochemical (IHC) and molecular methods for the detection of the specific Alpha-TFEB fusion, we studied 7 renal neoplasms that showed the t(6;11) by cytogenetic or molecular analysis (patient age: range, 9-33 years; mean, 17 years). While all tumors were confined to the kidney, 3 tumors demonstrated vascular invasion. In limited follow-up, none has metastasized. We postulated that the Alpha-TFEB gene fusion may result in deregulated expression of TFEB protein that would be detectable by IHC. Using a polyclonal antibody to TFEB on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections, we found that all 7 renal neoplasms with the t(6;11) demonstrated moderate (2 cases) or strong (5 cases) nuclear TFEB immunoreactivity. In contrast, none of 1089 other tumors (of 74 histologic types from 16 sites) labeled significantly for TFEB. Nuclear immunoreactivity for TFEB in normal tissues was extremely rare, limited to weak labeling of scattered benign lymphocytes. We also show that the Alpha-TFEB fusion RNAs are highly variable in size and structure, making detection by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) less reliable than for other gene fusions. Because Alpha is an intronless gene and therefore lacks splice signals, we hypothesized that DNA PCR and RT-PCR products would be identical, allowing for the use of more robust molecular assays based on genomic DNA. Indeed, in 2 cases with available frozen tissue, we showed the genomic Alpha-TFEB junction detected by DNA PCR to be identical to the Alpha-TFEB fusion mRNA detected by RT-PCR. In summary, renal neoplasms with the t(6;11) are a distinctive neoplastic entity with many similarities to the Xp11 translocation carcinomas, and together with the latter form a growing "MiTF/TFE family" of translocation carcinomas. Nuclear immunoreactivity for TFEB protein is a highly sensitive and specific diagnostic marker for these renal neoplasms. Finally, the special molecular features of the Alpha-TFEB gene fusion allow its molecular detection by DNA PCR as a robust alternative to RT-PCR in clinical tumor samples.
Interstitial loss and gain of sequences on chromosome 22 in meningiomas with normal karyotype.	In nearly half of sporadic low grade meningiomas no chromosome aberration can be detected. In the majority of the other half chromosome 22 is lost. In higher grade meningiomas this loss is followed by characteristic secondary chromosome aberrations. Regarding the molecular findings in Schwannomas, homozygous loss or mutation of the NF2 gene located on chromosome 22, was supposed also to be the primary event in meningioma development. However, in nearly all high grade but in only a minority of low grade meningiomas the loss of the NF2 protein is observed. Therefore, both the hypothetical combined heterozygous loss of or inactivation of two or more tumour suppressor genes (at least one of them located on chromosome 22) or the homozygous loss of a regulatory gene on chromosome 22 different from NF2 was discussed. In search for microdeletions or/and structural recombinations of chromosome 22 we investigated primary cell cultures of 43 meningiomas by conventional G-banding (26 without, 17 with loss of chromosome 22). Twenty-seven tumours were analysed with spectral karyotyping (SKY) and 16 with fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) with DNA probes for the chromosomal regions of 22q11.2, 22q11.23q12.1, 22q12.1 and 22q13.3. SKY analysis confirmed G-banding data for chromosome 22 and could specify marker chromosomes and translocations containing material from chromosome(s) 22. Confirming our assumption microdeletions on chromosome 22 were detected by FISH in 6/8 cytogenetically non-aberrant meningiomas. Surprisingly, in 2/8 cases we observed gains of the 22q13.3 and in 2/8 gains of the 22q12.1 region. Here we present first evidence for an uncommon mechanism during early meningioma development at least for a meningioma subgroup: i) duplication and translocation of sequences from chromosome 22 to different chromosomes. ii) deletion of the original sequences on chromosome 22, resulting in disomy again (only visible as translocation in metaphase FISH). iii) loss of chromosome 22.
Is the primary event in radiation-induced chronic myelogenous leukemia the induction of the t(9;22) translocation?	The probability that ionizing radiation induces a t(9;22) reciprocal translocation with its break points confined to the same regions as the break points for the Philadelphia (Ph') translocation in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) has been calculated to be 7 x 10(-12) per cell and gray. This figure was used to estimate the number of individuals among the atomic bomb survivors at Hiroshima and Nagasaki with such an induced translocation. For 9196 atomic bomb survivors who received a mean organ dose equivalent to bone marrow of 0.85 sievert, the estimate is done that the number of individuals with a radiation-induced t(9;22) translocation in one of the pluripotent stem cells in bone marrow is of the order of 50. The observed number of affected individuals with CML within the same cohort is 18. Even if the estimate of the number of individuals has relatively large errors, this indicates that the primary event in the radiation-induced CML cases can be a radiation-induced t(9;22) reciprocal translocation.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the thymus: a case report with no evidence of MALT1 rearrangement.	We report a case of thymic mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma (TML) that presented as an asymptomatic mediastinal mass in a 40-year-old woman with a past history of Sjgren syndrome. This case had the characteristic clinical and pathological features of TML, as found in most of the 24 previously reported cases, i.e., autoimmune context, especially Sjgren syndrome, IgA secretion, large epithelial cysts, lymphoepithelial lesions involving residual Hassal's corpuscles, epithelial cysts, and a marked plasmacytic differentiation with IgA expression. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction for t(11;18)(q21;q21) was negative, in agreement with recently published data. In this case, investigation for t(14;18)(q32;q21) using fluorescent in situ hybridization was also performed and supplied negative results. Neoplastic cells were negative for MAL, a marker of primary mediastinal large B cell lymphoma (PMBL). Altogether, these findings further support that among MALT lymphomas, TML have peculiar clinical and morphological characteristics and appear not to involve MALT1 rearrangement. They also suggest the absence of a relationship between TML and PMBL.
A rearrangement of the c-cbl proto-oncogene in HUT78 T-lymphoma cells results in a truncated protein.	The murine Cas NS-1 retrovirus carries the v-cbl oncogene and induces pro-B, pre-B and myeloid tumors in mice inoculated at birth. The human homolog of v-cbl is located on chromosome 11q23.3, which is in the region of translocation breakpoints in a range of acute leukemias. The sequencing of the human and murine c-cbl proto-oncogenes has revealed v-cbl as a markedly truncated form of c-cbl that encompasses 40% of the amino terminus. This truncation deletes a proline- and serine/threonine-rich domain and a putative leucine zipper. In this study we describe the nature of a truncated form of c-cbl present in the cutaneous T-cell lymphoma line HUT78. In these cells a genetic rearrangement involving unknown sequences and Alu repeat sequences results in the insertion of a premature stop codon that removes 259 amino acids from the carboxy terminus. This results in the translation of a 72 kDa protein, compared with the 120 kDa protein encoded by full-length c-cbl, which lacks a portion of the proline-rich domain and the entire leucine zipper.
Cytoplasmic nucleophosmin in acute myelogenous leukemia with a normal karyotype.	Nucleophosmin (NPM), a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein with prominent nucleolar localization, regulates the ARF-p53 tumor-suppressor pathway. Translocations involving the NPM gene cause cytoplasmic dislocation of the NPM protein.
Adult sclerosing rhabdomyosarcoma: cytogenetic link with embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.	Rhabdomyosarcomas are classified into three well-defined categories: embryonal, alveolar and pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma. Recently, seven cases of an unusual adult type of rhabdomyosarcoma with a prominent hyaline sclerosis have been described. We report the hitherto unreported cytogenetic changes of an adult sclerosing rhabdomyosarcoma. A 79-year-old woman underwent an amputation for a rapidly growing soft tissue mass in the anterior compartment of the right lower leg. The tumor infiltrated the tibia. On histology, a fascicular spindle to round cell proliferation, embedded in a prominent hyaline matrix, was seen. Immunohistochemistry showed focal desmin, myogenin and MyOD1 expression, and electron microscopy revealed Z-band material. Cytogenetic analysis disclosed a 44-49,XX,+del(1)(p22)[2],+11,+16[5],+18[12],+21[3],-22 [cp13] karyotype. Using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis, the tumor cells were negative for FOXO1A-disrupting translocations specific for alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. The chromosomal composition of malignant cells resembled the pattern of numerical changes frequently observed in embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, suggesting a close relationship of an adult sclerosing rhabdomyosarcoma with this entity.
Chromosome size-dependent control of meiotic recombination.	Smaller chromosomes have higher rates of meiotic reciprocal recombination (centimorgans per kilobase pair) than larger chromosomes. This report demonstrates that decreasing the size of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomal DNA molecules increases rates of meiotic recombination and increasing chromosome size decreases recombination rates. These results indicate that chromosome size directly affects meiotic reciprocal recombination.
Simultaneous analysis of t(X;18) by FISH- und SYT/SSX-RT-PCR in synovial sarcoma]	Synovial sarcoma diagnosis and differential diagnostic distinction from other spindle cell sarcomas may be difficult. In these cases the detection of the t(X;18) translocation by FISH and RT-PCR is diagnostically extremely helpful. This study was aimed at the question whether or not simultaneous use of both methods is required for evidence of t(X;18) translocation.Paraffin-embedded tumour specimens from 53 patients were included in the study which were considered to be possible synovial sarcomas on the basis of histological aspect and immunohistochemical profile. Detection of t(X;18) was performed using FISH and RT-PCR simultaneously. Nuclei and amplifiable RNA could be isolated from 39 of the 53 included cases (75%). In 72% of these 39 cases FISH and RT-PCR showed identical negative or positive results. The remainder of the cases (28%) showed either a typical PCR product or a positive FISH signal.In conclusions FISH could be confirmed by typical PCR products and is therefore qualified as an internal quality control. Nevertheless tumour biological and methodical reasons have an important influence on both methods. Consequently in difficult cases simultaneous FISH and RT-PCR analysis is necessary for a clear evidence of t(X;18) translocation.
Unique t(Y;1)(q12;q12) reciprocal translocation with loss of the heterochromatic region of chromosome 1 in a male with azoospermia due to meiotic arrest: a case report.	A de novo reciprocal translocation 46,X,t(Y;1)(q12;q12) was found in an azoospermic male with meiotic arrest. Cytogenetics and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) were used to define the karyotype, translocation breakpoints and homologue pairing. SRY (Yp), Yq11.2-AZF regions, DAZ gene copies and the distal Yq12 heterochromatin were studied by PCR and restriction analysis using sequence-tagged sites and single nucleotide variants. High resolution GTL, CBL and DA-DAPI staining revealed a (Y;1) translocation in all metaphases and a normal karyotype in the patient's father. FISH showed the presence of the distal Yq12 heterochromatic region in der(1) and loss of the heterochromatic region of chromosome 1. PCR demonstrated the intactness of the Y chromosome, including the SRY locus, AZF regions, DAZ genes and distal heterochromatin. A significant decrease (P = 0.005) of Xp/Yp pairing (18.6%), as compared with controls (65.7%), was found in arrested primary spermatocytes, and cell culture and mRNA expression studies confirmed an irreversible arrest at meiosis I, with induction of apoptosis and removal of germ cells by Sertoli cells. We characterized a de novo t(Y;1)(q12;q12) balanced reciprocal translocation with loss of the heterochromatic region of chromosome 1, that caused unpairing of sex chromosomes followed by meiosis I arrest, apoptotic degeneration of germ cells and azoospermia.
A genome-wide view of the in vitro response to l-asparaginase in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	To investigate the effect of l-asparaginase on acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), we used cDNA microarrays to obtain a genome-wide view of gene expression both at baseline and after in vitro exposure to l-asparaginase in cell lines and pediatric ALL samples. In 16 cell lines, a baseline gene expression pattern distinguished l-asparaginase sensitivity from resistance. However, for 28 pediatric ALL samples, no consistent baseline expression pattern was associated with sensitivity to l-asparaginase. In particular, baseline expression of asparagine synthetase (ASNS) was not predictive of response to l-asparaginase. After exposure to l-asparaginase, 5 cell lines and 10 clinical samples exhibited very similar changes in the expression of a large number of genes. However, the gene expression changes occurred more slowly in the clinical samples. These changes included a consistent increase in expression of tRNA synthetases and solute transporters and activating transcription factor and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein family members, a response similar to that observed with amino acid starvation. There was also a consistent decrease in many genes associated with proliferation. Taken together, the changes seem to reflect a consistent coordinated response to asparagine starvation in both cell lines and clinical samples. Importantly, in the clinical samples, increased expression of ASNS after l-asparaginase exposure was not associated with in vitro resistance to l-asparaginase, indicating that ASNS-independent mechanisms of in vitro l-asparaginase resistance are common in ALL. These results suggest that targeting particular genes involved in the response to amino acid starvation in ALL cells may provide a novel way to overcome l-asparaginase resistance.
The NFATc1 transcription factor is widely expressed in white cells and translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in a subset of human lymphomas.	Stimulation of lymphoid cells via their surface receptors triggers signalling pathways that terminate in the nucleus, where they induce alterations in gene transcription. Nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) transcription factors, involved in a major Ca2+-dependent signalling pathway, normally reside in the cytoplasm but re-locate to the nucleus when activation of the pathway (e.g. following ligation of antigen receptors) leads to their dephosphorylation. This study found that one member of the NFAT family (NFATc1/NFAT2) can be detected in routine biopsy samples, where it is seen in essentially all lymphoid cells, but is absent from the great majority of non-haematopoietic cells. An immunohistological evaluation of NFATc1 in almost 300 lymphomas showed that most neoplastic lymphoid cells also express NFATc1 as a cytoplasmic constituent, although it is absent in classical Hodgkin's disease and plasma cell proliferations. Of particular interest was the finding that NFATc1 was relocated to the nucleus in a minority of lymphoid neoplasms (usually diffuse large B-cell lymphomas or Burkitt lymphoma), presumably reflecting activation of the NFAT pathway. It would be of interest to correlate this feature with patterns of gene expression and also with prognosis, since it may identify a subset of human lymphoma that is distinct in its molecular and clinical features.
Disruption of the BCL11B gene through inv(14)(q11.2q32.31) results in the expression of BCL11B-TRDC fusion transcripts and is associated with the absence of wild-type BCL11B transcripts in T-ALL.	T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is associated with chromosomal aberrations characterized by juxtaposition of proto-oncogenes to T-cell receptor gene loci (TCR), resulting in the deregulated transcription of these proto-oncogenes. Here, we describe the molecular characterization of a novel chromosomal aberration, inv(14)(q11.2q32.31), in a T-ALL sample, involving the recently described BCL11B gene and the TCRD locus. The inversion joined the 5' part of BCL11B, including exons 1-3, to the TRDD3 gene segment of the TCRD locus, whereas the reciprocal breakpoint fused the TRDV1 gene segment to the fourth exon of BCL11B. The TRDV1-BCL11B joining region was 1344 bp long and contained fragments derived from 20q11.22, 3p21.33 and from 11p12, indicating the complex character of this aberration. A strong expression of in-frame transcripts with truncated BCL11B and TCRD constant region (TRDC) were observed, but in contrast to normal T cells and other T-ALL samples, no wild-type BCL11B transcripts were detected in the T-ALL sample. Screening of 37 other T-ALLs revealed one additional case with expression of the BCL11B-TRDC fusion transcript. As BCL11B appears to play a key role in T-cell differentiation, BCL11B disruption and disturbed expression may contribute to the development of T-cell malignancies in man.
Centromeric chromosomal translocations show tissue-specific differences between squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas.	Structural chromosomal aberrations are common in epithelial tumors. Here, we compared the location of centromeric breaks associated with whole arm translocations in seven adenocarcinoma cell lines and nine squamous cell carcinoma cell lines using SKY, microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Whole arm translocations were more frequent in squamous cell carcinomas (112 in nine cell lines and nine in one short-term culture) than in adenocarcinomas (13 in seven cases) and most often resulted in copy number alterations. Array CGH analysis demonstrated that in all squamous cell carcinomas and in most adenocarcinomas, the breakpoints of unbalanced whole arm translocations occurred between the two clones on the array flanking the centromeres. However, FISH with centromeric probes revealed that in squamous cell carcinomas, the marker chromosomes with whole arm translocations contained centromeres comprised of material from both participating chromosomes, while in adenocarcinomas centromeric material from only one of the chromosomes was present. These observations suggest that different mechanisms of centromeric instability underlie the formation of chromosomal aberrations in adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas.
How are cancer associated genes activated or inactivated?	Altered behaviour or the transformation of a cell can result from the abnormal expression of some oncogene products. Elevated or inappropriate expression can result from (i) mutations in the regulatory region of the gene, (ii) aberrant expression of a transcription factor involved in the regulation of the gene, (iii) gene amplification, or (iv) the insertion of a viral promoter upstream of the gene. In addition, an alteration in the product of a proto-oncogene can lead to the acquisition of a transforming activity. Such changes have been shown to include (i) point mutation, (ii) deletion, and (iii) the formation of fusion genes. Finally, the loss of activity of a gene product can contribute to transformation. This can come about by (i) small or large deletions, (ii) point mutations which abolish function or expression of an intact protein, or (iii) mutations which lead to a protein with an activity which can inhibit the suppressor activity of the normal allele.
Metaphase and interphase cytogenetics with Alu-PCR-amplified yeast artificial chromosome clones containing the BCR gene and the protooncogenes c-raf-1, c-fms, and c-erbB-2.	A human yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) library was screened by polymerase chain reaction with oligonucleotide primers defined for DNA sequences of the BCR gene and the protooncogenes c-raf-1, c-fms, and c-erbB-2. Alu-PCR-generated human DNA sequences were obtained from the respective YAC clones and used for fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments under suppression conditions. After chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization to GTG-banded human prometaphase chromosomes, seven of nine initially isolated YAC clones yielded strong signals exclusively in the chromosome bands containing the respective genes. Two clones yielded additional signals on other chromosomes and were excluded from further tests. The band-specific YACs were successfully applied to visualize specific structural chromosome aberrations in peripheral blood cells from patients with myelodysplasia exhibiting del(5)(q13q34), chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphocytic leukemia with t(9;22)(q34;q11), acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3) with t(15;17)(q22;q21), and in a cell line established from a proband with the constitutional translocation t(3;8)(p14.2;q24). In addition to the analysis of metaphase spreads, we demonstrate the particular usefulness of these YAC clones in combination with whole chromosome painting to analyze specific chromosome aberrations directly in the interphase nucleus.
Meiotic studies in two human reciprocal translocations and their association with spermatogenic failure.	Reciprocal translocations are often associated with infertility in male carriers. However, some carriers present normal semen profiles and are identified because of repetitive pregnancy failures.
A proposed explanation for female predominance in alveolar soft part sarcoma. Noninactivation of X; autosome translocation fusion gene?	Alveolar soft-part sarcoma (ASPS) is a rare malignant soft tissue tumor with both clinically and morphologically distinct features. It often involves the extremities of adolescents and young adults and shows a predilection for females. Recently, ASPS was found to have a nonreciprocal der(17)t(X;17) translocation with the corresponding fusion gene located in chromosome 17. Because females have an extra X-chromosome, their likelihood of developing an X;autosome translocation is theoretically double that of males, and thus, this extra X-chromosome is a likely explanation for female predominance of ASPS.
An additional segment at 1p36 derived from der(18)t(14;18) in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphomas transformed from follicular lymphoma.	The particular translocation in follicular lymphomas (FLs) is a t(14;18)(q32;q21), recombining the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene on chromosome 14 with the B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL2) gene on chromosome 18. Some low-grade FLs are aggressively transformed into diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, presumably by acquisition of secondary chromosomal changes, including chromosomal band 1p36. A common example is add(1)(p36). Because it is difficult to identify the origin of add(1)(p36) even on high-resolution G-banding analysis, we used spectral karyotyping (SKY) and double-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (DC-FISH) to define the t(14;18) and the extra band at 1p36 in two cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). SKY revealed that the extra chromosomal segment on 1p36 was derived from chromosome 18. DC-FISH defined BCL2/IgH fusion signals at 1p36 in addition to t(14;18), suggesting that BCL2/IgH fusion at 1p36 was an evolutionary alteration following the primary BCL2/IgH translocation on der(18) in both cases. Our results indicate that IgH alleles, implicated in chromosomal rearrangement, may themselves frequently be targets for secondary translocations, suggesting that multiple IgH translocations and insertions are associated with the progression of FL.
Activation of EVI1 gene expression in human acute myelogenous leukemias by translocations spanning 300-400 kilobases on chromosome band 3q26.	Retroviral activation of Evi-1 gene expression is one of the most common transforming events in murine myeloid leukemias. To evaluate the role of the EVI1 gene in human acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), leukemic blasts or cell lines from 116 patients were examined. In eight patients the EVI1 gene was expressed and all but one had cytogenetically detectable translocations of chromosome 3q26 where the EVI1 gene has been localized. To identify breakpoints, a restriction map that spans 1700 kilobases (kb) of the EVI1 locus was developed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. In one case, t(3;3)(q21;q26), a rearrangement was localized to 170-330 kb 5' of the gene. In a second case, t(3;3)(q21;q26), there was a rearrangement 13 kb 5' of the gene. This rearrangement was cloned and shown to be due to the fusion of sequences from 3q21-22 with the EVI1 locus. In the third case, ins(3)-(q21q25q27), there was a rearrangement that mapped 150 kb downstream from the 5' end of the gene.
AML1-FOG2 fusion protein in myelodysplasia.	Core binding factor (CBF) participates in specification of the hematopoietic stem cell and functions as a critical regulator of hematopoiesis. Translocation or point mutation of acute myeloid leukemia 1 (AML1)/RUNX1, which encodes the DNA-binding subunit of CBF, plays a central role in the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplasia. We characterized the t(X;21)(p22.3;q22.1) in a patient with myelodysplasia that fuses AML1 in-frame to the novel partner gene FOG2/ZFPM2. The reciprocal gene fusions AML1-FOG2 and FOG2-AML1 are both expressed. AML1-FOG2, which fuses the DNA-binding domain of AML1 to most of FOG2, represses the transcriptional activity of both CBF and GATA1. AML1-FOG2 retains a motif that recruits the corepressor C-terminal binding protein (CtBP) and these proteins associate in a protein complex. These results suggest a central role for CtBP in AML1-FOG2 transcriptional repression and implicate coordinated disruption of the AML1 and GATAdevelopmental programs in the pathogenesis of myelodysplasia.
Leukemias following retroviral transfer of multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) are driven by combinatorial insertional mutagenesis.	Previous studies have demonstrated leukemic complications in mice after high-copy retroviral gene transfer of the multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) cDNA, encoding a membrane-located efflux pump expressed in hematopoietic stem cells. In contrast, no such complications or MDR1-associated alterations of hematopoiesis were observed in numerous other studies exploring MDR1 gene transfer into cell lines, mice, dogs, nonhuman primates, and human subjects. Here, we show that leukemias associated with retroviral expression of MDR1 depend on high vector dose, and involve the selection of clones with combinatorial insertional mutagenesis of proto-oncogenes or other signaling genes. Compared with insertion patterns in normal long-term repopulating hematopoietic cells, such hits were overrepresented in leukemic clones, pointing to a causal role. A similar constellation of insertion sites was also observed in a leukemia arising after high-copy retroviral gene transfer of a fluorescent protein. Spectral karyotyping demonstrated additional chromosomal translocations in a subset of cases, indicative of secondary genetic instability. We also show that insertional mutants can be amplified in vitro prior to transplantation. On the basis of these findings, we suggest the use of preclinical dose-escalation studies to define a therapeutic index for retroviral transgene delivery.
Fusion of EML1 to ABL1 in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia with cryptic t(9;14)(q34;q32).	The BCR-ABL1 fusion kinase is frequently associated with chronic myeloid leukemia and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia but is rare in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). We recently identified NUP214-ABL1 as a variant ABL1 fusion gene in 6% of T-ALL patients. Here we describe the identification of another ABL1 fusion, EML1-ABL1, in a T-ALL patient with a cryptic t(9;14)(q34;q32) associated with deletion of CDKN2A (p16) and expression of TLX1 (HOX11). Echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 1-Abelson 1 (EML1-ABL1) is a constitutively phosphorylated tyrosine kinase that transforms Ba/F3 cells to growth factor-independent growth through activation of survival and proliferation pathways, including extracellular signal-related kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), signal transducers and activators of transcription 5 (Stat5), and Lyn kinase. Deletion of the coiled-coil domain of EML1 abrogated the transforming properties of the fusion kinase. EML1-ABL1 and breakpoint cluster region (BCR)-ABL1 were equally sensitive to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib. These data further demonstrate the involvement of ABL1 fusions in the pathogenesis of T-ALL and identify EML1-ABL1 as a novel therapeutic target of imatinib.
CD2+ tetraploid acute promyelocytic leukemia variant with double (15;17) translocations.	We report a patient with a variant form of CD2+ acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who had double translocations (15;17) in a single leukemic cell. The patient presented with severe neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. The bone marrow showed marked hyperplasia with large leukemic cells that had bizarre nuclear configuration and basophilic, hypogranular cytoplasm. Leukemic cells were positive for CD2, 13, 33, 34, and 56 and negative for HLA-DR. The karyotype of the abnormal clone was characterized as 92,XXYY, t(15;17)(q22;q21)x2. No other additional abnormal clone was found, and the patient's condition was diagnosed as tetraploid APL variant. Fluorescence in situ hybridization assay revealed 2 promyelocytic leukemia and retinoic acid receptor alpha (PML/RARA) fusion signals, and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay revealed short-form PML/RARA fusion transcript. Tetraploidy in APL is a very rare abnormality. Double translocations were an additional abnormality in this case, and this patient's karyotype might have had some influence on morphological characteristics, expression of CD2, and poor clinical outcome.
Incidence of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma of germinal center B-cell origin in whole diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: tissue fluorescence in situ hybridization using t(14;18) compared with immunohistochemistry.	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) can be divided into prognostically important categories such as germinal center B (GCB)-like and non-GCB-like groups. The t(14;18)(q32;q21) translocation defines a unique subset of DLBCL cases with a GCB gene expression profile. Two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis was applied to detect t(14;18) (q32;q21) in the nuclei of paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 61 patients with de novo DLBCL. Nine (15%) of 61 cases had a positive pattern. Fifty-seven cases were subclassified in an immunohistochemical study with anti-CD10, anti-bcl-6, and anti-MUM1 antibodies. In this classification, 21 cases (37%) were placed in the GCB group, and 36 (63%) were placed in the non-GCB group. There was a discrepancy between t(14;18) occurrence and bcl-2 protein expression. Bcl-2 protein expression was positive in 40 (67%) of 60 cases. The expression of bcl-2 protein in the GCB and non-GCB groups was not significantly different: 15 (71%) of 21 cases in the GCB group and 24 (67%) of 36 cases in the non-GCB group tested positive. We found no difference between the FISH-positive and FISH-negative groups in overall survival time (P = .6019, log-rank test). The overall survival rates of GCB and non-GCB groups did not differ significantly by immunohistochemical classification (P = .5399, log-rank test). Overall survival was significantly longer in the group with a low International Prognostic Index (IPI) score than in the group with a high IPI score (P = .0002, log-rank test). Our results suggest that immunohistochemical study and cytogenetic study with t(14;18) FISH cannot predict the clinical outcomes of DLBCL patients. A study with a larger number of patients may show a difference in clinical outcomes between FISH-positive and FISH-negative groups and between GCB and non-GCB groups.
Aspiration cytology of pulmonary small cell variant of poorly differentiated synovial sarcoma metastatic from the tongue: a case report.	Small cell variant ofpoorly differentiated synovial sarcoma (PDSS) is a great mimic of Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor, with cytologic and immunohistochemical overlap.
Molecular cytogenetic characterization of rearrangements involving 12p in leukemia.	Translocations involving the short arm of chromosome 12 are frequent events among patients with various hematologic malignancies. In approximately half of these patients, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis has shown that the breakpoints are clustered within the ETS-variant gene 6 (ETV6) at 12p13, leading to its fusion with a variety of partner genes on different chromosomes. The remaining patients have breakpoints centromeric or telomeric to ETV6 or, less frequently, interstitial 12p13 deletions that invariably involve this gene. In most cases reported, 12p translocations were found to be associated with other structural and/or numerical abnormalities as part of a complex karyotype. Initially using conventional cytogenetic analysis, we characterized the chromosomal breakpoints of three leukemia patients (two with B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disorder) presenting a t(5;12)(q13;p13), t(12;15)(p13;q22), and dic(9;12)(p11;p11), respectively, as the only structural abnormalities in the karyotype. These rearrangements were further investigated using FISH and molecular studies. Two cases revealed cryptic three-way translocations that had gone undetected in the conventional cytogenetic analyses. One of the cases presented an ETV6 rearrangement with an unsuspected fusion, with the CBFA2 gene at 21q22. In the other two, small and large 12p deletions that included ETV6 were found. This report illustrates the chromosomal and molecular heterogeneity of rearrangements underlying 12p chromosome translocations in leukemia.
Primary myeloid sarcoma of the testicle with t(15;17).	The first case of acute promyelocytic leukemia presenting as a solitary testicular mass (myeloid sarcoma) that relapsed in the contralateral testicle is described. The neoplastic cells strongly expressed chloroacetate esterase, myeloperoxidase, CD33, CD43, and weakly, CD117. The presence of many azurophil granules and Auer rods was detected by electron microscopy. Translocation (15;17)(q22;q21.1) was revealed by cytogenetics and was verified by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Contralateral testicle is a favorite site for recurrence in a subset of testicular myeloid sarcomas. Subclassification of all cases of myeloid sarcoma ought to be attempted.
NUP98 is fused to HOXA9 in a variant complex t(7;11;13;17) in a patient with AML-M2.	The t(7;11)(p15;p15.4) has been reported to fuse the NUP98 gene (11p15), a component of the nuclear pore complex, with the class-1 homeobox gene HOXA9 at 7p15. This translocation has been associated with myeloid leukemias, predominantly acute myeloid leukemia (AML) M2 subtype with trilineage myelodysplastic features, and with a poor prognosis. The derived fusion protein retains the FG repeat motif of NUP98 N-terminus and the homeodomain shared by the HOX genes, acting as an oncogenic transcription factor critical for leukemogenesis. We report here a new complex t(7;11)-variant, i.e., t(7;11;13;17)(p15;p15;p?;p1?2) in a patient with AML-M2 and poor prognosis. The NUP98-HOXA9 fusion transcript was detected by RT-PCR, suggesting its role in the malignant transformation as it has been postulated for other t(7;11)-associated leukemias. No other fusion transcripts involving the NUP98 or HOXA9 genes were present, although other mechanisms involving several genes on chromosomes 13 and 17 may also be involved. To our knowledge, this is the first t(7;11) variant involving NUP98 described in hematological malignancies.
Jumping translocation of 1q in a BCR/ABL-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Jumping translocations (JT) are rare chromosomal abnormalities in which an identical copy of a chromosomal region (donor) is translocated to a different chromosome (acceptor). Chromosome 1 is often involved as donor chromosome. JTs of the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q) or parts of it are associated with a poor outcome. We report on a 72-year-old male patient with a BCR/ABL1 rearrangement positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (common ALL, or c-ALL; FAB L2 morphology) and with additional structural and numeric aberrations. Four aberrant clones were observed after conventional cytogenetic analysis. Three of the four clones showed a JT with 1q as donor and 3q, 8q, and 22q as acceptors. To the best of our knowledge, neither JT between 1q and chromosome 3 nor JT between 1q and chromosome 22 have been described in c-ALL. This report emphasizes the frequent involvement of 1q in JT and the association with a poor prognosis.
A der(19)t(12;19)(q12;p13.3) in a case of pediatric acute leukemia with unusual immunophenotype.	We describe a case of acute leukemia in a child with an unusual immunophenotype and a novel cytogenetic abnormality. The leukemia blasts expressed myeloid, natural killer and B-lineage associated antigens. Cytogenetics showed the presence of a novel unbalanced chromosomal translocation, der(19)t(12;19)(q12;p13.3). The patient achieved and maintained remission with myeloid-directed chemotherapy. The differential diagnosis of the immunophenotype and the potential fusion genes are discussed.
Rearrangement of the MLL gene in acute myeloblastic leukemia: report of two rare translocations.	Band 11q23 is known to be involved in translocations and insertions with a variety of partner chromosomes. They lead to MLL rearrangement, resulting in a fusion with numerous genes. We report here 2 male adults in whom a diagnosis of acute myelomonoblastic leukemia (FAB M4) and acute monoblastic leukemia (FAB M5) was made. Conventional cytogenetic techniques showed a 45,XY,t(1;11)(p32;q23),-7 karyotype in the first case and a 46,XY, t(11;17)(q23;q21) in the second case. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with a specific MLL probe showed the gene to be disrupted, the 3' region being translocated on the derivative chromosomes 1 and 17, respectively. Fourteen and 24 patients, including ours, with acute myeloblastic leukemia associated with a t(1;11)(p32;q23) and a t(11;17)(q23;q21), respectively have been reported in the literature. Several patients with the latter translocation have also been identified to have acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Although both translocations are preferentially associated with monocytic differentiation, the t(11;17)(q23;q21) is more common in adults and has been reported in many patients with ALL, compared to the t(1;11)(p32;q23).
A complex translocation (9;22;16)(q34;q11.2;p13) in chronic myelocytic leukemia.	The t(9;22) is present in almost all cases with chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML). Around 5% of these patients show complex translocations involving a third chromosome in addition to chromosomes 9 and 22. All chromosomes have participated in these variants and the BCR-ABL1 hybrid gene is always present. We describe a CML case with a new complex t(9;22;16)(q34;q11.2;p13). Seven months after imatinib treatment a karyotype showed the appearance of a clone with a standard t(9;22) in addition to the clone with the complex translocation. The b3a2 transcript of BCR-ABL1 was detected both at diagnosis and 7 months after therapy. In CML, both complex translocations and standard translocations have the same prognosis. However, these complex variants could contribute to the tumoral evolution by conferring selective advantages that, in turn, cause the preferential manifestation at diagnosis of clones with complex translocations.
Cryptic 5' MLL gene insertion in an X-chromosome in acute myeloblastic leukemia.	Band 11q23 is known to be involved in translocations and insertions with a variety of partner chromosomes. They lead to MLL rearrangement, resulting in fusion with numerous genes. We report here on a 43-year-old man presenting with asthenia and pancytopenia who was diagnosed with acute myeloblastic leukemia FAB-M5. Conventional cytogenetic techniques showed a del(11)(q21). Using a specific probe for fluorescent in situ hybridization, the MLL gene was found to be disrupted, with the 5' region being inserted into the X-chromosome (around bands q24 approximately q25), as confirmed by whole X-chromosome painting. The accumulating data on acute myeloblastic leukemia demonstrate that the 5'-MLL insertion in an X-chromosome is a rare but recurrent abnormality associated with leukemia, not only in infants, but also in adults.
Fertility of cryopreserved sperm in three bulls with different Robertsonian translocations.	The fertility of three bulls carrying different Robertsonian translocations (rob(1;29), rob(14;17) and rob(26;29)) was evaluated. Oocytes-cumulus complexes obtained from slaughterhouse-derived ovaries were matured and then fertilised in vitro with frozen/thawed seminal material from the above mentioned subjects, and from control bulls with normal karyotype. An assessment was first made of the concentration, vitality and acrosome integrity of the seminal material to be sure that possible differences in the results of the in vitro fertilisation experiments were not due to seminal material quality. The results of the experiments, evaluated by the percentage of cleaved embryos and blastocysts per cleaved embryo, indicated that the three bulls carrying Robertsonian translocations had similar fertilising power and semen qualitative parameters to the controls. These data suggest that neither gametogenesys impairment nor decreased spermatozoa fertilising capacity is responsible for the reduced fertility in bulls with Robertsonian translocations. What the data do confirm is that the observed in vivo hypofertility for karyologically abnormal bulls is mainly due to early embryonic mortality.
Follicular lymphoma subgrouping by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis.	The frequency of t(14;18) in follicular lymphoma (FL) in Japan has been reported to be low compared to North America and other European countries. Recently, it has also been reported that FL lacks t(14;18), mainly among histological grade 3b, and occasionally has a rearranged Bcl-6 gene. It is not known whether a difference in histology or immunostaining pattern exists between FL with and without t(14;18). We performed interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis to detect Bcl-2/IgH, Bcl-6 gene rearrangement, Bcl-2 gene amplification, and the cyclinD1/IgH gene in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded specimens from our FL archives. The correlation between morphological features, histological grades, immunohistochemical findings, and cytogenetical aberrations was studied. In total, we found that 28 of 47 cases (59.6%) had t(14;18). Bcl-6 gene rearrangement and extra Bcl-2 gene signals were found in five and two cases, respectively. Only one had cyclinD1/IgH fusion. Ten of 12 grade 1, nine of 17 grade 2, and 0 of two grade 3 cases had fusion signals, respectively. None of the above abnormalities were detected in 12 of 47 cases (25.5%). Our data confirmed a high frequency of t(14;18) in FL in grade 1, but a lower incidence among grade 2, that could be attributed to the lower incidence of the translocation in FL in Japan. Immunostaining of both Bcl-2 and CD10 was highly predictable for the presence of t(14;18); the positive predictive value was 75%, suggesting the usefulness of the staining.
t(9;11)(p22;p15) with NUP98-LEDGF fusion gene in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia.	The rare t(9;11)(p22;p15) translocation is associated with adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with immature forms. We report a novel fusion of the NUP98 and LEDGF genes in a pediatric AML with intermediate characteristics between M2-M3 French-American-British (FAB) subtypes exhibiting the same chromosomal rearrangement. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) studies identified the chimeric transcript product of in-frame fusion of NUP98 exon 8 to LEDGF exon 4.
Primary intrathoracic synovial sarcoma: a clinicopathologic study of 40 t(X;18)-positive cases from the French Sarcoma Group and the Mesopath Group.	Synovial sarcoma (SS), an aggressive neoplasm accounting for up to 14% of soft tissue sarcomas, was recently recognized as a primary tumor in the lung and pleura. SS is characterized by the chromosomal translocation t(X;18)(SYT-SSX) found in more than 95% of the tumors. We report a cooperative study from the French Sarcoma Group and the Mesopath Group on 40 t(X;18)(SYT-SSX)-positive primary intrathoracic SS. There were 22 males and 18 females, whose age ranged from 16 to 79 years (median, 47 years). Neoplasms were mostly circumscribed and of large size (median, 7.5 cm; range, 2-16 cm). Thirty-nine tumors were monophasic SS, including 24 (60%) monophasic fibrous and 15 (37.5%) poorly differentiated cases, and one lesion was a biphasic SS. A larger proportion of poorly differentiated tumors were observed among intrathoracic SS as compared with soft tissue SS. Immunohistochemically, 90% of the cases reacted with at least one epithelial marker. CD34 was focally expressed in 3 cases. SYT-SSX1 fusion transcripts were detected in 22 cases (56.4%) and SYT-SSX2 fusion transcripts in 17 cases. Median and 5-year disease-specific survival in 33 patients was 50 months and 31.6%. Median and 5-year disease-free survival was 24 months and 20.9%. Patient sex, age, tumor size, histologic subtype, grade, and SYS-SSX fusion type had no significant impact on outcome. In conclusion, intrathoracic SS are rare but aggressive tumors with poor prognosis. In this unusual location, the detection of SYT-SSX fusion transcripts is a valuable diagnostic adjunct.
Localization of 11q13 loci with respect to regional chromosomal breakpoints.	We have employed two strategies to map 13 markers located at 11q13. First, we used pulsed-field gel electrophoresis of DNA fragments obtained with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes. The markers used in this study were scattered over 8.4 Mb and, for most of them, could not be linked one to another. A second mapping strategy employed hybridization to either DNA of somatic hybrids containing various parts of the long arm of chromosome 11 or metaphase chromosomes of a B-cell line containing the t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation. We were able to sort out the centromeric from the telomeric probes with respect to translocation breakpoints taken as reference chromosomal landmarks by this approach. BCL1, which corresponds to the region where the t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation breakpoints are clustered, appears as a boundary between two areas of human/mouse homology present in conserved syntenic regions on mouse chromosomes 7 and 19.
Position effects due to chromosome breakpoints that map approximately 900 Kb upstream and approximately 1.3 Mb downstream of SOX9 in two patients with campomelic dysplasia.	Campomelic dysplasia (CD) is a semilethal skeletal malformation syndrome with or without XY sex reversal. In addition to the multiple mutations found within the sex-determining region Y-related high-mobility group box gene (SOX9) on 17q24.3, several chromosome anomalies (translocations, inversions, and deletions) with breakpoints scattered over 1 Mb upstream of SOX9 have been described. Here, we present a balanced translocation, t(4;17)(q28.3;q24.3), segregating in a family with a mild acampomelic CD with Robin sequence. Both chromosome breakpoints have been identified by fluorescence in situ hybridization and have been sequenced using a somatic cell hybrid. The 17q24.3 breakpoint maps approximately 900 kb upstream of SOX9, which is within the same bacterial artificial chromosome clone as the breakpoints of two other reported patients with mild CD. We also report a prenatal identification of acampomelic CD with male-to-female sex reversal in a fetus with a de novo balanced complex karyotype, 46,XY,t(4;7;8;17)(4qter-->4p15.1::17q25.1-->17qter;7qter-->7p15.3::4p15.1-->4pter;8pter-->8q12.1::7p15.3-->7pter;17pter-->17q25.1::8q12.1-->8qter). Surprisingly, the 17q breakpoint maps approximately 1.3 Mb downstream of SOX9, making this the longest-range position effect found in the field of human genetics and the first report of a patient with CD with the chromosome breakpoint mapping 3' of SOX9. By using the Regulatory Potential score in conjunction with analysis of the rearrangement breakpoints, we identified a candidate upstream cis-regulatory element, SOX9cre1. We provide evidence that this 1.1-kb evolutionarily conserved element and the downstream breakpoint region colocalize with SOX9 in the interphase nucleus, despite being located 1.1 Mb upstream and 1.3 Mb downstream of it, respectively. The potential molecular mechanism responsible for the position effect is discussed.
A hypothesis: radiation-related leukemia is mainly attributable to the small number of people who carry pre-existing clonally expanded preleukemic cells.	Human leukemia frequently involves recurrent translocations. Since radiation is a well-known inducer of both leukemia and chromosomal translocations, it has long been suspected that radiation might cause leukemia by inducing specific translocations. However, recent studies clearly indicate that spontaneous translocations specific to acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) actually occur much more frequently than do leukemia cases with the same translocations. Moreover, the ALL-associated translocation-bearing cells are often found to have clonally expanded in individuals who do not develop ALL. Since radiation-induced DNA damage is generated essentially randomly in the genome, it does not seem likely that radiation could ever be responsible for the induction of identical translocations of relevance to ALL in multiple cells of an individual and hence be the primary cause of radiation-related leukemia. An alternative hypothesis described here is that the radiation-related ALL risk for a population is almost entirely attributable to a small number of predisposed individuals in whom relatively large numbers of translocation-carrying pre-ALL cells have accumulated. This preleukemic clone hypothesis explains various known characteristics of radiation-related ALL and implies that people who do not have substantial numbers of preleukemic cells (i.e. the great majority) are likely at low risk of developing leukemia. The hypothesis can also be applied to chronic myelogenous leukemia and to young-at-exposure cases of acute myelogenous leukemia.
Molecular diagnosis of synovial sarcoma: RT-PCR detection of SYT-SSX1/2 fusion transcripts in paraffin-embedded tissue.	Synovial sarcomas comprise up to 10 percent of malignant soft tissue tumors, and most are characterized by the chromosomal translocation t(X;18) (pl 1.2;q11.2), which results in the expression of SYT-SSX fusion transcripts. These tumors include two major histological subtypes, biphasic and monophasic. Diagnosing biphasic synovial sarcomas does not usually pose a problem, whereas the monophasic spindle-cell form can be difficult to distinguish from other spindle-cell neoplasms using histological and immunohistochemical profiles only.
Cytogenetic evidence of the multistep origin of head and neck squamous cell carcinomas.	Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas are associated with tobacco and alcohol use; therefore, the incidence of this type of tumor is expected to rise in the future as a result of the increasing numbers of female and adolescent smokers. Previous reports of cytogenetic analysis of this type of tumor have implicated a number of chromosomal regions in recurring changes, but no clear pattern of characteristic changes has emerged.
Translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB on corneal epithelial cells induced by ultraviolet B irradiation.	This study was performed to elucidate the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in the death of corneal epithelial cells after ultraviolet (UV) irradiation.
"You break it, you fix it.".	Nonrandom chromosomal translocations are considered to be causal events leading to leukemic transformation. However, the mechanism(s) that cause these translocations are poorly understood. Libura and colleagues report exciting new findings on the mechanism(s) that lead to chromosomal translocation.
Advances in understanding the biology and genetics of acute myelocytic leukemia.	Acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) is a malignant neoplasm of hematopoietic cells characterized by an abnormal proliferation of myeloid precursor cells, decreased rate of self-destruction and an arrest in cellular differentiation. The leukemic cells have an abnormal survival advantage. Thus, the bone marrow and peripheral blood are characterized by leukocytosis with a predominance of immature cells, primarily blasts. As the immature cells accumulate in the bone marrow, they replace the normal myelocytic cells, megakaryocytes, and erythrocytic cells. This leads to a loss of normal bone marrow function and associated complications of bleeding, anemia, and infection. The incidence of AML increases with age, peaking in the sixth decade of life. In the United States, there are about 10,000 new cases of AML and 7,000 deaths in those with an AML diagnosis per year. Current molecular studies of AML demonstrate that it is a heterogeneous disorder of the myeloid cell lineage. This paper will discuss the most recent understanding and research of the cellular origin of AML and associated common genetic mutations that fuel the neoplastic process. Also discussed are how these advances have impacted the classification, selection of therapy, and definition of complete remission in AML. Promyelocytic leukemia will be discussed in detail as this AML subtype reveals how our understanding of the biology and genetics of the disease has led to targeted therapy that results in a cure in up to 80% of patients.
Tetraploidy or near-tetraploidy clones with double 8;21 translocation: a non-random additional anomaly of acute myeloid leukemia with t(8;21)(q22;q22).	We report on 6 patients with tetraploidy or near-tetraploidy acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with double t(8;21) (q22;q22) and review the literature on cases with the same cytogenetic abnormalities. Some common features were revealed by this analysis.
The t(12:21) is underrepresented in childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia in Kerala, Southern India.	t(12;21) (TEL/AML1) is the most common genetic event in childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in Western countries. Samples from 42 children with ALL in Kerala were tested by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for TEL/AML1, t(1;19) and t(4;11). Only 2 out of 42 (4.8%) cases were positive for the TEL/AML1, and t(1;19) and t(4;11) were not detected. We conclude that the incidence of TEL/AML1 is lower in the Indian population.
Prenatal diagnosis and molecular cytogenetic characterization of an unusual complex structural rearrangement in a pregnancy following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).	We report on a balanced complex chromosomal aberration detected in a fetus after amniocentesis. The pregnancy was achieved after intracytoplasmic sperm injection. GTG-banding revealed a complex structurally rearranged karyotype with a translocation between chromosomes 5 and 15 and an additional paracentric inversion in the der(15) between bands 5q11.2 and 5q15. Ag-NOR staining showed an interstitial active nuclear organizer region in the der(15). Molecular cytogenetic analyses using whole-chromosome-painting probes, comparative genomic hybridization, and multicolor banding did not point to further structural aberrations or imbalances. Therefore, a complex rearrangement with three breakpoints has occurred, and the karyotype can be described as 46,XX,der(5)t(5;15) (q11.2;p12),der(15)t(5;15)(q11.2;p12)inv(5)(q11.2q15).
A highly complex chromosomal rearrangement between five chromosomes in a healthy female diagnosed in preparation for intracytoplasmatic sperm injection.	We report a case of a de novo complex chromosomal rearrangement among five chromosomes found in a clinically healthy woman. The only indication for chromosome analysis was a planned intracytoplasmatic sperm injection. Physical examination, including internal and external genitals, and ovaries and hormone status were normal. Banding cytogenetics showed a rearrangement among chromosomes #3, #4, #7, #9, and #17. Twenty-four-color fluorescence in situ hybridization and multicolor banding were applied to characterize the translocations and breakpoints more precisely. This confirmed the involved chromosomes and revealed two breakpoints in chromosome #4. This six-breakpoint rearrangement [der(3)t(3;4), der(4)t(17;4;7), der(7)t(3;7), der(9)t(4;9), and der(17)t(9;17)] seemed to be balanced on a molecular cytogenetic level, although submicroscopic deletions or duplications close to the breakpoints cannot be excluded.
Three cases with enlarged acrocentric p-arms and two cases with cryptic partial trisomies.	In three cases, banding analysis revealed a normal karyotype except for an enlarged short arm of one chromosome 13 or 15. To clarify whether this enlargement was due to a heteromorphism or to a cryptic chromosomal trisomy, so-called cenM-FISH probe sets containing a microdissection-derived probe specific for the acrocentric human p-arms were applied. The results enabled us to confirm in one case and to exclude in two cases that the enlargement on the suspect chromosome was due to a p-arm polymorphism. M-FISH and/or microdissection were used to resolve the nature of the rearrangements, i.e., partial trisomies 6 and 19.
Up-regulation of glutathione biosynthesis in NIH3T3 cells transformed with the ETV6-NTRK3 gene fusion.	The ETV6-NTRK3 gene fusion, first identified in the chromosomal translocation in congenital fibrosarcoma, encodes a chimeric protein tyrosine kinase with potent transforming activity. ETV6-NTRK3-dependent transformation involves the joint action of NTRK3 signaling pathways, and aberrant cell cycle progression resulting from activation of Mek1 and Akt. The level of glutathione (GSH) was found to be markedly increased in ETV6-NTRK3-transformed NIH3T3 cells. The activities of the two GSH biosynthetic enzymes as well as of glutathione peroxidase, together with their mRNAs, were also higher in the transformed cells. The transformed cells were able to grow in the presence of GSH-depleting agents, whereas the control cells were not. L-Buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO) inhibited activation of Mek1 and Akt in the transformed NIH3T3 cells. These observations imply that up-regulation of GSH biosynthesis plays a central role in ETV6-NTRK3-induced transformation.
Robertsonian translocations in wheat arise by centric misdivision of univalents at anaphase I and rejoining of broken centromeres during interkinesis of meiosis II.	The mechanism of origin of Robertsonian translocations was investigated in plants monosomic for chromosome 1A of wheat and 1H(t) of Elymus trachycaulus by GISH. Chromosomes 1A and 1H(t) stayed univalent in all metaphase I cells analyzed, suggesting that Robertsonian translocations do not originate from meiotic recombination in centromeric regions with shared DNA sequence homology. At ana-/telophase I, the 1H(t) and 1A univalents underwent either chromosome or chromatid segregation and misdivided in 6-7% of the pollen mother cells. None of the ana-/telophases I analyzed had Robertsonian translocations, which were only observed in 2% of the "half tetrads" at ana-/telophase II. The frequency of Robertsonian translocations observed at ana-/telophase II corresponds well with the number of Robertsonian translocations (1-4%) detected in progenies derived from plants monosomic for group-1 chromosomes of wheat (1A, 1B, and 1D) and 1H(t) of E. trachycaulus. Our data suggest that Robertsonian translocations arise from centric misdivision of univalents at ana-/telophase I, followed by segregation of the derived telocentric chromosomes to the same nucleus, and fusion of the broken ends during the ensuing interkinesis.
The classification of acute leukaemia.	The standard methods for classifying acute leukaemias now include morphology, cytochemistry and membrane markers. Major advances in immunology, in particular the development of monoclonal antibodies (McAb) with lineage specificity, have provided objective positive criteria for the diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). The FAB group has recognised the importance of McAb for the classification of some forms of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), such as megakaryoblastic leukaemia, AML-M7, in which reactivity with McAb against platelet glycoproteins is a requirement for diagnosis. More recently the group has defined a type of myeloblastic leukaemia with minimal differentiation, AML-MO, in which myeloid cytochemistry is negative and the diagnosis is made by the expression of myeloid antigens and negative lymphoid markers in the blast cells. However, new problems have emerged with the wider use of McAb which now need to be addressed: the most important is the precise evaluation criteria for biphenotypic leukaemia for which we have proposed a scoring system in order to recognise the genuine cases which constitute a distinct disease entity. The role of karyotyping in the classification of acute leukaemia is gradually being defined (MIC proposals) and some forms of acute leukaemia can only be diagnosed by chromosome translocations, e.g. Ph+ ALL, resulting from t(9;22) and t(4;11) in infant ALL. Several translocations can also be demonstrated by molecular techniques. Cases with t(8;16) (p11;p13) are characterised by myelomonocytic features, erythrophagocytosis and fibrinolysis and represent a type of AML which can be defined primarily by its cytogenetic abnormality.
Cytogenetic biodosimetry of an accidental exposure of a radiological worker using multiple assays.	A technician involved in the maintenance of X-ray equipment visited the occupational medicine service with complaints of skin lesions, apparently caused by an accidental exposure three months earlier. To estimate the dose received by the technician in the accident, biodosimetry was performed 6 and 18 months post-exposure with the dicentric and micronucleus assays. Part of the latest blood sample was also used for retrospective dosimetry by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) analysis for translocations. The data obtained 6 and 18 months post-exposure indicate that both dicentrics and micronuclei disappear with a half-time of 1 y. After correction for delayed blood sampling, dose values of 0.75 Gy (95% confidence limits 0.56-1.05 Gy) from dicentrics and 0.96 Gy (95% confidence limits 0.79-1.18 Gy) from micronuclei were obtained. FISH analysis of translocations resulted in a dose estimate of 0.79 Gy (95% confidence limits 0.61-0.99 Gy). The satisfactory agreement between the three cytogenetic endpoints supports the use of the micronucleus assay for triage purposes in the case of large scale radiological accidents and provides further evidence for the valid use of FISH for translocations as a reliable retrospective biological dosimeter.
The t(8;17)(p11;q23) in the 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome fuses MYO18A to FGFR1.	The 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome (EMS) also known as stem cell leukemia-lymphoma syndrome (SCLL) is associated with translocations that disrupt FGFR1. The resultant fusion proteins are constitutively active tyrosine kinases, and different FGFR1 fusions are associated with subtly different disease phenotypes. We report here a patient with a t(8;17)(p11;q23) and an unusual myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease (MDS/MPD) characterized by thrombocytopenia due to markedly reduced size and numbers of megakaryocytes, with elevated numbers of monocytes, eosinophils and basophils. A novel mRNA fusion between exon 32 of the myosin XVIIIA gene (MYO18A) at chromosome band 17q11 and exon 9 of FGFR1 was identified. Partial characterization of the genomic breakpoints in combination of bubble-PCR with fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that the t(8;17) arose from a three-way translocation with breaks at 8p11, 17q11 and 17q23. MYO18A-FGFR1 is structurally similar to other fusion tyrosine kinases and is likely to be the causative transforming lesion in this unusual MDS/MPD.
New insights into MLL gene rearranged acute leukemias using gene expression profiling: shared pathways, lineage commitment, and partner genes.	Rearrangements of the MLL gene occur in both acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemias (ALL, AML). This study addressed the global gene expression pattern of these two leukemia subtypes with respect to common deregulated pathways and lineage-associated differences. We analyzed 73 t(11q23)/MLL leukemias in comparison to 290 other acute leukemias and demonstrate that 11q23 leukemias combined are characterized by a common specific gene expression signature. Additionally, in unsupervised and supervised data analysis algorithms, ALL and AML cases with t(11q23) segregate according to the lineage they are derived from, that is, myeloid or lymphoid, respectively. This segregation can be explained by a highly differing transcriptional program. Through the use of novel biological network analyses, essential regulators of early B cell development, PAX5 and EBF, were shown to be associated with a clear B-lineage commitment in lymphoblastic t(11q23)/MLL leukemias. Also, the influence of the different MLL translocation partners on the transcriptional program was directly assessed. Interestingly, gene expression profiling did not reveal a clear distinct pattern associated with one of the analyzed partner genes. Taken together, the identified molecular expression pattern of MLL fusion gene samples and biological networks revealed new insights into the aberrant transcriptional program in 11q23/MLL leukemias.
Low-grade follicular lymphoma with t(14;18) presents a homogeneous disease entity otherwise the rest comprises minor groups of heterogeneous disease entities with Bcl2 amplification, Bcl6 translocation or other gene aberrances.	Follicular lymphomas (FL) are morphologically classified into grades 1, 2, 3a and 3b by the World Health Organization. Bcl2, Bcl6 and CD10 are phenotypic markers of FL while the Bcl2 t(14;18) and Bcl6 t(3q27) gene translocations are common genetic changes. However, to date, there has been no integrated analysis based on phenotype, grade and genotype from large numbers of FL cases. We graded 261 cases of FL and determined their phenotypes and gene alterations. According to the antigen markers and gene alterations of 147 cases, we classified FL into typical and the others types. The typical group, which includes 69% cases of FL, is characterized by low histological grade (grade 1, 2), coexpression of BCL2 and CD10 and Bcl2 gene translocation. The rest comprises a small part of low-grade FL without Bcl2 gene translocation and high-grade (grade 3a, 3b) FL. These FLs include some heterogeneous disease entities. They are characterized by high histological grade (87%), no definite expression of BCL2 or CD10 and several kinds of gene aberrances including Bcl2 translocation, Bcl6 translocation, Bcl2 amplification or other unknown gene abnormality. Our findings indicate that typical FL presents a homogeneous disease entity whereas the rest comprises heterogeneous diseases entities.
Three new cases of chromosome 3 rearrangement in bands q21 and q26 with abnormal thrombopoiesis bring further evidence to the existence of a 3q21q26 syndrome.	Defects of 3q in bands q21 and q26 have been reported in more than 70 cases of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) in blast crisis. In this paper three additional patients are described: patient 1 with refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation (RAEB-T) and inv(3)(q21q26), patient 2 with RAEB-T and t(3;3)(q21;q26), and patient 3 with myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM) in blast crisis and inv(3)(q21q26). In addition to 3q rearrangements, monosomy 7 and del(7)(q22q36) were observed in patients 1 and 2, respectively. In the three patients, the most characteristic clinical features were elevated platelet counts, marked hyperplasia with dysplasia of the megakaryocytes, and poor prognosis. Although disturbance of thrombopoiesis was not systematically observed in all patients with t(3;3)(q21;q26), inv(3)(q21q26), and ins or dup(3)(q21----q26), study of the 77 cases reported and of the three cases presented here brings further evidence to the existence of a cytogenetic syndrome involving bands q21 and q26 simultaneously, which represents a subtype of ANLL, MDS, and MPD, characterized by normal or elevated platelet counts, hyperplasia with dysplasia of megakaryocytes, multilineage involvement, young median age of patients with MDS, preferential involvement of women in t(3;3), high incidence of chromosome 7 defects in MDS and ANLL, short duration of the MDS phase, no response to chemotherapy, short survival, and por prognosis.
Cytogenetic and molecular studies of the Philadelphia translocation in myelodysplastic syndromes. Report of two cases and review of the literature.	We report two patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome and the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. The first patient was a 73-year-old man who was diagnosed as having a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia in combination with features suggestive of a myeloproliferative syndrome. Chromosomal analysis showed a normal karyotype in the majority of cells, mixed with metaphases containing a standard Ph translocation, t(9;22)(q34;q11), as well as a translocation between chromosome 4 and 6: t(4;6)(p15;p12). Southern blot analysis showed breakpoint cluster region rearrangement as observed in classic chronic myeloid leukemia. The second patient was a 63-year-old man with a myelodysplastic syndrome, type refractory anemia. Cytogenetic study of bone marrow cells at the time of diagnosis revealed a normal karyotype: 46,XY. The initial myelodysplastic syndrome evolved to a myeloproliferative phase with progressive leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. During the terminal phase the Ph chromosome was discovered in 100% of the examined cells. We discuss the correlation between MDS and myeloproliferative diseases, the de novo acquisition of the Ph chromosome during the course of a myelodysplastic syndrome, and review the literature.
Peripheral blood chromosome aberrations in MDS.	The frequency of non-clonal structural and numerical chromosome aberrations in peripheral blood lymphocytes of 51 patients with MDS and 37 age-matched hematologically normal subjects is assessed. The frequency of aneuploid cells (p less than 0.001) and of structural aberrations (p less than 0.005) was significantly higher in MDS patients than in normal subjects, but showed no relationship with FAB type or with the presence of clonal karyotype abnormalities in the bone marrow. Exchange configurations were only observed in MDS patients (27.5%). The data also suggest that there may be an association between high peripheral blood aberration levels and rapidly progressive disease. This may indicate increased mutagen sensitivity and have implications for treatment.
Cytogenetic study of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and its correlation with immunophenotype and genotype.	Among 72 Chinese patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), 50 had clonal chromosomal abnormalities. Structural abnormalities were detected in 42 patients: these included t(9;22) in 9, t(1;19) in 6, t(4;11) in 5, del(11)(q23) in 4, and del(6q) in 4. Adults had a higher incidence of t(9;22) and t(1;19) but a lower incidence of t(4;11) and hyperdiploid greater than 50 karyotype than children. A significant difference was also noted in white blood cell (WBC) count among various karyotypic groups. Patients with chromosomal abnormalities t(9;22), t(1;19), t(4;11) and del(11) (q23) had a shorter complete remission duration as compared with patients free of these abnormalities. Immunophenotyping was performed on 69 patients. All patients with t(9;22), t(1;19), and t(4;11) had B-lineage ALL restricted to certain stages of maturation: groups III and IV, groups IV and V, and group II, respectively (according to the classification of Foon and Tood). Among patients with t(9;22), t(4;11), and del(11)(q23), which have been considered to be associated with acute mixed-lineage leukemia, one each, respectively, showed myeloid antigen expression on the leukemic blasts (My+ ALL). No cross-lineage rearrangements of immunoglobulin (Ig) or T-cell receptor (TCR) genes were detected in these karyotypic subgroups of patients who underwent gene analysis.
Cytogenetic t(11;17)(q13;q21) in a pediatric ependymoma. Is 11q13 a recurring breakpoint in ependymomas?	Cytogenetic studies on a supratentorial ependymoma from a 1-year-old boy showed a t(11;17)(q13;q21). This is the second ependymoma reported with a rearrangement at 11q13; to our knowledge the 11q13 is the first recurring breakpoint reported in ependymoma.
Effects of mutagen-sensitive mus mutations on spontaneous mitotic recombination in Aspergillus.	Methyl methane-sulfonate (MMS)-sensitive, radiation-induced mutants of Aspergillus were shown to define nine new DNA repair genes, musK to musS. To test mus mutations for effects on mitotic recombination, intergenic crossing over was assayed between color markers and their centromeres, and intragenic recombination between two distinguishable adE alleles. Of eight mutants analyzed, four showed significant deviations from mus+ controls in both tests. Two mutations, musK and musL, reduced recombination, while musN and musQ caused increases. In contrast, musO diploids produced significantly higher levels only for intragenic recombination. Effects were relatively small, but averages between hypo- and hyperrec mus differed 15-20-fold. In musL diploids, most of the rare color segregants resulted from mitotic malsegregation rather than intergenic crossing over. This indicates that the musL gene product is required for recombination and that DNA lesions lead to chromosome loss when it is deficient. In addition, analysis of the genotypes of intragenic (ad+) recombinants showed that the musL mutation specifically reduced single allele conversion but increased complex conversion types (especially recombinants homozygous for ad+). Similar analysis revealed differences between the effects of two hyperrec mutations; musN apparently caused high levels solely of mitotic crossing over, while musQ increased various conversion types but not reciprocal crossovers. These results suggest that mitotic gene conversion and crossing over, while generally associated, are affected differentially in some of the mus strains of Aspergillus nidulans.
Perspectives on the origins of multiple myeloma and plasmacytomas in mice.	The natural history of multiple myeloma and related human plasma cell tumors is compared to the process of plasmacytomagenesis in mice. Intriguing new findings are beginning to give a more complete picture of the evolution of these tumors. Mouse plasmacytomas consistently develop chromosomal translocations that dysregulate c-myc, but consistent oncogenic mutations have not yet been defined in multiple myeloma.
De novo t(7;10)(q33;q23) translocation and closely juxtaposed microdeletion in a patient with macrocephaly and developmental delay.	We have applied FISH with fully integrated BACs and BAC subfragments assessed in the human genome sequence to a de novo t(7;10)(q33;q23) translocation in a patient with developmental delay and macrocephaly. The translocation breakpoints disrupt the SEC8L1 gene on chromosome 7 and the PTEN gene on chromosome 10. RT-PCR demonstrated chimeric transcripts containing the first 11 exons of SEC8L1 fused to exon 3 of PTEN. In addition to the balanced translocation, we found a 7-Mb deletion in the translocated part of chromosome 7 at 4-Mb distance of the translocation breakpoint. This microdeletion, which disrupts the PTN and TPK1 genes and deletes 29 bonafide genes and the T-cell receptor beta locus, arose in the paternal germline. The patient's phenotype may be caused by a dominant-negative effect of the SEC8L1-PTEN fusion protein and/or haploinsufficiency of the disrupted or deleted genes. Our study demonstrates that de novo translocations can be associated with microdeletions outside the breakpoint region(s), rendering the study and risk estimation of such breakpoints more complicated than previously assumed.
Sex reversal in a child with a 46,X,Yp+ karyotype: support for the existence of a gene(s), located in distal Xp, involved in testis formation.	We report on a sex reversed Japanese child with a 46,X,Yp+ karyotype, minor dysmorphic features, and no testicular development. The Yp+ chromosome was derived by translocation of an Xp fragment (Xp21-Xp22.3) to Yp11.3. This has resulted in deletion of distal part of the Y chromosome pseudoautosomal region (DXYS15-telomere) and duplication of the X specific region (DXS84-PABX) and proximal part of the pseudoautosomal region (MIC2-DXYS17). No deletion of the Y specific region was detected nor was any mutation found in SRY. Cytogenetic analysis suggests that the proximal part of the Xp fragment is the most distal part of the short arm of the Yp+ chromosome (Xp21----Xp 22.3::Yp11.3----Yqter). No chromosomal mosaicism was detected. These results are similar to previous reports of sex reversal in four subjects with a 46,Y,Xp+ karyotype. We conclude that the sex reversal is a direct, or indirect, consequence of having two active copies of the distal part of Xp and may indicate the presence of a gene(s) which acts in the testis determination or differentiation pathway.
Campomelic dysplasia associated with a de novo 2q;17q reciprocal translocation.	A phenotypically female fetus with campomelic dysplasia and a de novo reciprocal translocation, 46,XY,t(2;17) (q35;q23-24), is presented. This is the second case of campomelic dysplasia in which a rearrangement involving the long arm of chromosome 17 has been identified, indicating that this is likely to be the site of the campomelic dysplasia locus.
Reverse chromosome painting: a method for the rapid analysis of aberrant chromosomes in clinical cytogenetics.	We describe a method, termed reverse chromosome painting, which allows the rapid analysis of the content and breakpoints of aberrant chromosomes. The method involves the sorting of small numbers of the aberrant chromosome from short term blood culture preparations or cell lines by using bivariate flow karyotype analysis. The sorted chromosomes are amplified and biotin labelled enzymatically using a degenerate oligonucleotide-primed polymerase chain reaction (DOP-PCR), the product annealed to metaphase spreads from normal subjects, and hybridisation detected using fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). We show the usefulness of this method for routine clinical cytogenetics by the analysis of cases involving an insertion, a deletion, a translocation, and two cases of a chromosome with additional material of unknown origin. The method has particular application for the rapid resolution of the origin of de novo unbalanced chromosome duplications.
Current view on non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Origin and evolution in relation to cytogenetic-histologic correlations]	Recent advances in immunology, cytogenetics and molecular genetics has allowed for a better understanding of the origin and evolution of non Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Over the last decade a number of recurrent chromosome aberrations has been disclosed and some correlations with well defined histologic subsets of B-cell NHL has been established. Five important cytogenetic-histologic associations has been documented, well defined by combined cytologic, immunologic and genetic investigations: t(14;18) (q32;q21) and NHL of follicle centre cell origin, frequently with follicular histologic pattern; t(8;14) (q24;q32) and Burkitt's lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma or the equivalent small non-cleaved cell category of the "working formulation system"; t(3;22) (q27;q11) and diffuse large cell lymphoma; t(11;14) (q13;q32) and mantle zone lymphoma; trisomy 12 and chronic lymphocytic leukemia and well-differentiated small lymphocytic lymphoma. Molecular genetic studies elucidated some mechanisms operating during the normal lymphocyte differentiation which may be held responsible for the illegitimate recombination between the immunoglobulin genes and some oncogenes normally located on other chromosome regions. It has thus been demonstrated that the early events leading to neoplastic transformation in B-cell neoplasias occur in immature lymphocyte precursors in the bone marrow during the assembly of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene. According to some recent studies chromosome changes may have prognostic value in B-cell NHL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia and may be employed in clinical practice in the construction of proportional hazard models in several histologic subsets of NHL.
Translocations involving band 3q27 and Ig gene regions in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	We report a series of 20 non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) in which cytogenetic analysis showed a translocation involving band 3q27 and the site of one of the three Ig genes (14q32, 2p12, 22q11) in the neoplastic cells. These cases were found in a series of 319 patients with clonal chromosomal abnormalities studied over a 7-year period. Fourteen patients had diffuse lymphoma, mainly of large cell type and the remaining six were follicular lymphomas. All cases studied were of B-cell phenotype. A t(3;14)(q27;q32) was commonest, found in 15 patients (4.7%), with the two variant translocations, t(3;22)(q27;q11) and t(2;3)(p12;q27), being found in three and two patients, respectively. Additional chromosomal defects were present in most patients, but two patients had this type of translocation as the sole abnormality. These results indicate that translocations involving band 3q27 and Ig genes are not uncommon, and suggest that a novel oncogene, located at band 3q27, may be implicated in B-cell NHL.
The translocation (6;9) (p23;q34) shows consistent rearrangement of two genes and defines a myeloproliferative disorder with specific clinical features.	Translocation (6;9)(p23;q34) is a cytogenetic aberration that can be found in specific subtypes of both acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). This translocation is associated with an unfavourable prognosis. Recently, the genes involved in the t(6;9) were isolated and characterized. Breakpoints in both the dek gene on chromosome 6 and the can gene on chromosome 9 appear to occur in defined regions, which allows us to diagnose this type of leukemia at the molecular level. Moreover, because of the translocation a chimeric dek-can mRNA is formed which, as we show here, is an additional target for diagnosis via cDNA-preparation and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We studied 17 patients whose blood cells and/or bone marrow cells showed a t(6;9) with karyotypic analysis. Fourteen patients suffered from AML, one patient had a refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation (RAEBt), one patient had an acute myelofibrosis (AMF), and one patient a chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). In nine cases studies at the DNA and RNA levels were possible while in seven cases only the DNA could be analyzed. In one case only RNA was available. Conventional Southern blot analysis showed the presence of rearrangements of both the dek gene and the can gene. In both genes, breakpoints cluster in one intron in the patients investigated. The presence of a consistent chimeric dek-can product after cDNA preparation followed by the PCR was demonstrated. We conclude from our data that the t(6;9) is found in myeloproliferative disorders with typical clinical characteristics. This translocation results in highly consistent abnormalities at the molecular level.
Tumorigenic activity of a rearranged c-myc gene from a human T-cell leukemia line.	The T-lymphoma cell line Hut78 contains a rearranged c-myc oncogene derived from a translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 8 and 2; the event deletes the 3' end of the gene, causing the loss of the transcribed AT-rich sequence. It has recently been shown that the mutant c-myc mRNA is several-fold more stable than normal c-myc mRNA. We have assessed the tumorigenicity of the mutant c-myc allele by transfecting this gene and its normal counterpart into NIH3T3 cells, together with a neomycin resistance gene. Following selection for G-418 resistance, the cells were injected into nude mice. Tumors containing integrated c-myc arose in animals injected with cells transfected by the mutated, but not by the normal, allele. The results suggest that this rearranged c-myc bears a tumorigenic activity not observed in other naturally occurring mutated c-myc alleles and may have directly contributed to the tumorigenic event in the Hut78 cell line.
BCL2 oncogene translocation is mediated by a chi-like consensus.	Examination of 64 translocations involving the major breakpoint region (mbr) of the BCL2 oncogene and the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus identified three short (14, 16, and 18 bp) segments within the mbr at which translocations occurred with very high frequency. Each of these clusters was associated with a 15-bp region of sequence homology, the principal one containing an octamer related to chi, the procaryotic activator of recombination. The presence of short deletions and N nucleotide additions at the breakpoints, as well as involvement of JH and DH coding regions, suggested that these sequences served as signals capable of interacting with the VDJ recombinase complex, even though no homology with the traditional heptamer/spacer/nonamer (IgRSS) existed. Furthermore, the BCL2 signal sequences were employed in a bidirectional fashion and could mediate recombination of one mbr region with another. Segments homologous to the BCL2 signal sequences flanked individual members of the XP family of diversity gene segments, which were themselves highly overrepresented in the reciprocal products (18q-) of BCL2 translocation. We propose that the chi-like signal sequences of BCL2 represent a distinct class of recognition sites for the recombinase complex, responsible for initiating interactions between regions of DNA separated by great distances, and that BCL2 translocation begins by a recombination event between mbr and DXP chi signals. Since recombinant joints containing chi, not IgRSS, occur in brain cells expressing RAG-1 (Matsuoka, M., F. Nagawa, K. Okazaki, L. Kingsbury, K. Yoshida, U. Muller, D. T. Larue, J. A. Winer, and H. Sakano. 1991. Science [Wash. DC]. 254:81; reference 1), we further suggest that the product of this gene could mediate both BCL2 translocation and the first step of normal DJ assembly through the creation of chi joints, rather than signal or coding joints.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization for the detection of t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) in a synovial sarcoma tissue microarray using a breakapart-style probe.	Synovial sarcomas (SSs) account for 5% of soft tissue tumors and carry a balanced translocation t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2), detectable in over 90% of cases. This translocation brings together portions of two genes: SYT and SSX. Detecting interruption of the SYT gene on chromosome 18 would be useful as a diagnostic tool. We describe a scoring method to detect disruption of SYT with breakapart probe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and the application of this method for identification of SS within a sarcoma tissue microarray. After optimization, SYT disruption was identified in 22 of 23 (96%) of known SS tumor samples but was not in 23 of 23 (100%) of non-SS sarcoma samples. Ten of 11 (91%) blinded test SS tumor samples were also correctly identified. For comparison, commercially available FISH and chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) probes were tested. The commercial FISH probes identified SYT disruption in 81% of the SS tumor samples but in none of the non-SS samples. The CISH probes produced signals too weak to interpret. The use of breakapart FISH probes is a relatively quick procedure for detection of synovial sarcoma translocations and can be applied to archival specimens in tissue microarrays.
Comparative investigation of structural and gene somatic mutations in workers of nuclear chemical plants. I. A study of stable and unstable chromosome aberrations]	A study of frequency of unstable chromosome aberrations in 50 workers of nuclear chemical plants in remote period after beginning or finishing professional contact with ionizing radiation was carried out. 14 persons from this cohort were mainly whole-body exposed to external gamma-rays and 36 were exposed to combined external and internal radiation from incorporated Pu nuclides. In results of this irradiating practically every subject had a chronical radiation sickness. In the 1-st group the frequency of unstable aberrations varied from 0.2 to 3.6 per 100 cells and exceeded reliably control level in 5 persons. In the 2-nd group the frequency of unstable aberrations varied from 0 to 11.6 per 100 cells and exceeded reliably control level in 20 examined workers. The FISH study of frequency of stable aberrations was performed in 13 subjects who were exposed to combined external and internal radiation. Total frequency of complete and incomplete translocations varied from 0.6 to 18.5 aberrations per genome per 100 cells and reliable exceeded control level in 9 subjects. Non-random participation in exchange rearrangements (translocations) was revealed for used set of chromosomes (2, 3 and 8).
Distinct patterns of hematopoietic stem cell involvement in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The cellular targets of primary mutations and malignant transformation remain elusive in most cancers. Here, we show that clinically and genetically different subtypes of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) originate and transform at distinct stages of hematopoietic development. Primary ETV6-RUNX1 (also known as TEL-AML1) fusions and subsequent leukemic transformations were targeted to committed B-cell progenitors. Major breakpoint BCR-ABL1 fusions (encoding P210 BCR-ABL1) originated in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), whereas minor BCR-ABL1 fusions (encoding P190 BCR-ABL1) had a B-cell progenitor origin, suggesting that P190 and P210 BCR-ABL1 ALLs represent largely distinct tumor biological and clinical entities. The transformed leukemia-initiating stem cells in both P190 and P210 BCR-ABL1 ALLs had, as in ETV6-RUNX1 ALLs, a committed B progenitor phenotype. In all patients, normal and leukemic repopulating stem cells could successfully be separated prospectively, and notably, the size of the normal HSC compartment in ETV6-RUNX1 and P190 BCR-ABL1 ALLs was found to be unaffected by the expansive leukemic stem cell population.
Chromosomal translocations in lymphoid malignancies reveal novel proto-oncogenes.	Chromosomal translocation within B and T cell malignancies has proven a rich source for proto-oncogenes. The obligate DNA breaks within immunoglobulin (Ig) and T cell receptor (TCR) loci are frequently the sites of recurrent translocations. Burkitt's lymphoma established the paradigm by introducing the myc oncogene from chromosome segment 8q24 into the Ig heavy chain gene locus at 14q32. Molecular cloning of an aberrant Ig rearrangement in follicular lymphoma revealed Bcl-2. Bcl-2 constitutes the first member of a new category of oncogenes: regulators of programmed cell death. Bcl-2 blocks apoptosis and maintains long-term immune responsiveness including B-cell memory. The PRAD1 gene of parathyroid adenomas appears to be the elusive Bcl-1 gene of t(11;14)(q13;q32) bearing lymphomas. It proves to be a novel G1 cyclin. Acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) pre-B phenotype produce a E2A/PBX fusion protein that possesses the leucine zipper of E2A with the homeodomain of PBX. Two molecular forms of the BCR/ABL fusion protein are produced by the Philadelphia chromosome. A deregulated p210 tyrosine kinase is found in chronic myelogenous leukemia, while a p190 form predominates in Ph+ ALL. In contrast, T-cell ALLs introduce a potpourri of genes into their T cell receptor loci. However, a common theme is emerging. These oncogenes (Ttg1, Ttg2, SCL, LylI, H0X11) all belong to classic families of transcription factors, possessing LIM domains, helix-loop-helix motifs, or homeodomains. Provocatively, these transcription factors are normally intended for lineages other than T cells. These genes have widened the horizons of both oncogenesis and normal development.
Aberrations of chromosome 19. Do they characterize a subtype of benign thyroid adenomas?	We describe the cytogenetic findings in two benign thyroid hyperplasias with aberrations of chromosome 19. In the first patient, two of four nodules showed identical translocations involving chromosome 19 and 22: 46,XX,der(19)t(19;?)(q13;?),der(22)t(22;?)(q12;?), the remaining nodules had an apparently normal karyotype. Two nodules from a second patient were karyotyped. One showed a karyotype 46,XX,t(1;19)(p35-36.1;q13) and the other had a normal karyotype. From these results as well as those reported previously, we can conclude that structural changes of chromosome 19 characterize a subgroup of thyroid adenomas, thyroid hyperplasias, or both.
Chromosome rearrangements at 12q13 in two cases of chondrosarcomas.	We analyzed the karyotypes of two moderately differentiated (grade 2) chondrosarcomas. Case 1 had a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 6 and 12, t(6;12)(q25;q13) in most of the cells analyzed, as well as trisomies of chromosomes 7, 8, 11, 17, 19, and 21 and tetrasomy of chromosome 19. A reciprocal translocation involving chromosomes 12 and 19, t(12;19)(q13;q13), was noted as a highly clonal abnormality in the other case. Some cells had t(12;19) as the sole chromosome abnormality. Thus, chromosome rearrangements involving the long arm of chromosome 12 at the same region (q13) were commonly identified in the two tumors. These findings suggest that the rearrangements at 12q13 are nonrandom acquired changes that characterize a subgroup of chondrosarcomas.
Translocation (6;16) in a case of granulosa cell tumor of the ovary.	We performed a cytogenetic study of an ovarian granulosa cell tumor (GCT). Tumor cells showed a translocation (6;16); the full karyotype was 45,XX-6,dic(6;16)(q11;q22)/44,XX,-6,-22,dic(6;16)(q11;q22),-22/46,XX,- 6,dic(6;16)(q11;q22), +dic(6;16)(q11;q22). This is the second case of GCT with structural changes of chromosome 6 leading to loss of 6q material.
Survival of patients with t(1;7)(p11;p11). Report of two cases and review of the literature.	t(1;7)(p11;p11) is a relatively rare chromosome aberration, in most cases associated with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplasia. Earlier, many patients received chemotherapy for a malignant disease. The prognosis is usually poor. I describe two patients and review the literature. Thirty-six of the 73 had a history of previous exposure to chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Alkylating agents had been used in 29. The median survival after observation of the translocation was only 11 months, a much shorter survival time than is common for patients with secondary hematologic disorders. Sex, diagnosis, hemoglobin concentration, and percentage of metaphases containing t(1;7) were independent prognostic factors. Despite its relation to earlier chemotherapy, the chromosome aberrations associated with t(1;7) lack the cytogenetic features characteristic of therapy-induced disorders.
New case of t(3;17)(q26;q22) as an additional change in a Philadelphia-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in acceleration.	A new case of t(3;17)(q26;q22) was observed in a Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia in acceleration 1 month before occurrence of the blastic phase. Abnormal megakaryocytopoiesis and thrombopenia were noted, but blast cells did not express platelet markers. The same translocation was previously reported in three myeloproliferative disorders in acceleration or in the process of becoming acute. Translocations or inversions of chromosome 3 with breakpoint involving the band 3q26 were specifically associated with megakaryoblastic acute phase or abnormal megakaryocytopoiesis. This report confirms that the t(3;17)(q26;q22) is a specific nonrandom chromosomal abnormality associated with the acute nonlymphoblastic phase of myeloproliferative disorders and megakaryocytopoiesis dysfunction.
Unbalanced 6p translocation as primary karyotypic anomaly in secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.	A case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia after radiochemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease, with a rearrangement of 6p23 region, is described. This chromosome change, which has been previously reported in secondary leukemias or myelodysplastic syndromes, was an isolated karyotypic anomaly in our case, which strongly supports the nonrandom involvement of chromosome 6p in induced leukemias.
Involvement of 19q13 in follicular thyroid adenoma.	Cytogenetic investigation of a follicular thyroid adenoma from a 31-year-old woman showed a t(16;19)(q12;q13), as the sole chromosome abnormality. As five more cases with 19q13 involvement have been described, we suggest that the terminal region of the long arm of chromosome 19 is important for the development of follicular thyroid adenoma.
Lymphoma associated chromosomal abnormalities can easily be detected by FISH on tissue imprints. An underused diagnostic alternative.	Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) is useful for detecting specific chromosomal abnormalities in various tumours. In lymphomas, diagnosis is frequently made using paraffin wax embedded tissue. However, FISH performed under these conditions presents potential technical problems and difficulties in interpretation.
Secondary myelodysplastic syndromes following treatment with azathioprine are associated with aberrations of chromosome 7.	We report 14 cases of secondary myelodysplastic syndromes (sMDS) following treatment with azathioprine for non-malignant disorders. Long-term treatment with azathioprine seems to be associated with an increased risk of MDS and subsequent leukemic transformation.
CD221 (IGF-1R) is aberrantly expressed in multiple myeloma, in relation to disease severity.	We investigated the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (CD221) in normal, reactive and malignant plasma cells. We show that CD221 is aberrantly expressed on human myeloma cells, that higher levels of CD221 are observed in patients and human myeloma cell lines with the most aggressive 14q32 translocations, and that CD221 expression has a negative prognostic impact in patients with multiple myeloma.
Establishment and characterization of a human acute monocytic leukemic cell line, SHI-1, carrying t(6;11)(q27;23) and p53 gene alteration]	To establish a novel human monocytic leukemic cell line and characterize its biological features.
A new property of the maize B chromosome.	TB-9Sb is a translocation between the B chromosome and chromosome 9 in maize. Certain deletions of B chromatin from the translocation cause a sharp decrease in B-9 transmission compared to the rate for standard TB-9Sb. The deletions remove components of a B chromosome genetic system that serves to suppress meiotic loss in the female. At least two distinct B-chromosome regions suppress meiotic loss: one on the B-9 and one on 9-B. The system operates by stabilizing univalent B-type chromosomes. It allows the univalents to migrate to one pole in meiosis, despite the absence of a pairing partner. The findings reported here are the first evidence for genetic control of meiotic loss by a B chromosome. However, it is proposed that the practice of suppressing meiotic loss is common to the B chromosomes of all species. The need to suppress meiotic loss results from the fact that B chromosomes are frequently unpaired in meiosis and subject to very high frequencies of loss. B chromosomes may utilize one or more of the following methods to suppress meiotic loss: (a) regular migration of univalent B's to one pole in meiosis, (b) enhanced recombination between B chromosomes and (c) mitotic nondisjunction.
Concurrent EGFr and Cox-2 expression in colorectal cancer: proliferation impact and tumour spreading.	Many reports were produced on single epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr) and cyclo-oxygenase-2 (Cox-2) evaluation using immunohistochemical techniques (IHC), but very few works considered concurrent expression of these two proteins in the light of their impact on proliferation and tumour spreading. At least three molecular pathways (EGFr, Cox-2, and APC/beta-catenin molecular cascade) may interact in this malignancy giving rise to cross talking effects on proliferation and cancer spreading.
Submicroscopic deletions in an acute myeloid leukemia case with a four-way t(8;11;16;21).	The t(8;21)(q22;q22) rearrangement is observed in about 15% of acute myelocitic leukemia (AML) cases, while variant t(8;21) translocations are detected in 6-10% of AML patients positive for the 5'RUNX1/3'CBFA2T1 fusion gene. We report a detailed molecular cytogenetic analysis of a four-way variant t(8;11;16;21)(q22;q14;q12;q22) performed by fluorescence in situ hybridization with specific BAC and PAC clones. The study demonstrated the loss of several megabases belonging to chromosomes 11 and 16 whereas no deletion was detected on der(21). These findings suggest that a precise breakpoint characterization could identify submicroscopic genomic deletions whose meaning remains to be defined.
Review of translocations detected by FISH for retrospective biological dosimetry applications.	Several European laboratories have combined their research efforts to arrive at a consensus view on using fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) for retrospective dosimetry. The aim of this review is to report these views and to highlight some areas where further work is needed. Translocations in the stable cells should be measured only in the cells that contain the full complement of the painted material. Two-way and one-way translocations should be combined with equal weight. The control level of translocations has a strong dependence on age, which has now been measured and the system has been calibrated. In conclusion, the technique works and a lifetime dose to the bone marrow from low-linear energy transfer radiation of 0.5 Gy above normal background levels can be measured for any individual. The main application is considered to provide an independent verification of lifetime doses to individuals who might form a part of an epidemiological study.
Prognostic significance of the balanced t(1;19) and unbalanced der(19)t(1;19) translocations in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The recurring chromosomal 1;19 translocation in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) occurs in balanced t(1;19) (q23;p13) and unbalanced, -19, +der(19)t(1;19)(q23;p13) forms. The clinical features and outcome were compared for 30 patients with the t(1;19) and 36 patients with the der(19) forms. These were 45 children (less than 1-14 years) and 21 adults (15-54 years) (median age 9.0 years), 41 females, 25 males, with median white blood count (WBC) 20.9 x 10(9)/1. Patients were classified by karyotype thus: t(1;19) 11 cases; t(1;19) with additional change (+A) 19 cases; der(19) 17 cases; and der(19) +A, 19 cases. Non-random additional structural abnormalities included involvement of 1q, 6q, i(7q), i(9q), 9p, and 13q. The only significant difference in clinical or blast cell features between patients with the t(1;19) and the der(19) was the greater age of adults with t(1;19) (p less than 0.05). Projected median event-free survival and survival of all cases together was 22 months and greater than 112 months respectively. Neither age nor WBC contributed significantly to prognosis. For patients at all ages, prognosis of der(19) was better than t(1;19). This was statistically significant for event-free and overall survival in childhood (p = 0.02 and p = 0.01 respectively) and was independent of age (p = 0.04 and p = 0.008 respectively) and WBC (p = 0.03 and p = 0.04 respectively). Future studies should examine separately the outcome for patients with the balanced and unbalanced forms of the t(1;19).
Inversion of chromosome 16 and dysplastic eosinophils in accelerated phase of chronic myeloid leukemia.	Abnormalities of chromosome 16, including inv(16)(p13q22), del(16)(q22), and t(16;16)(p13;q22), have been reported almost exclusively in association with acute myelomonocytic leukemia and are characteristically accompanied by abnormal eosinophils with dysplastic granules in the bone marrow. We observed an inv(16)(p13q22) in two patients with typical Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). The appearance of the abnormality of chromosome 16 was associated with acceleration of disease or onset of blast crisis and with the appearance in the bone marrow of abnormal eosinophils. In both cases the marrow karyotypes were 46,XY,t(9;22)(q34;q11)/46,XY,inv(16)(p13q22),t(9;22)(q34;q11). In these two patients the temporal association of the acquisition of the inversion 16 and the appearance of monocytoid cells and dysplastic eosinophils in the bone marrow further supports the relationship of this karyotypic abnormality with leukemic monocytoid and eosinophilic evolution. This secondary cytogenetic change appears to be an infrequent manifestation of specific phenotypic disease progression in CML.
Absence in Ph-negative, M-BCR rearrangement-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia of linkage between 5' ABL and 3' M-BCR sequences in Philadelphia translocation.	The Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome can be detected in the vast majority of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). We performed a long-range analysis of chromosomal translocation junction by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) techniques, to examine whether molecular evidence of a reciprocal Ph translocation exists in Ph-positive CML as well as Ph-negative, M-BCR rearrangement-positive CML. The rearrangement within M-BCR and ABL was detected in all patients including nine Ph-positive CML, and three Ph-negative CML. The rearranged 3'-abl fragments showed comigration with rearranged 5'-bcr fragment in rare-cutting restriction enzyme digests in all patients with Ph-positive CML. Thus, the physical linkage of the 3' part of ABL to the 5' side of M-BCR on 22q-chromosome was shown. The same linkage was also demonstrated in all three patients with Ph-negative CML. Meanwhile, the rearranged 3'-bcr fragments showed comigration with rearranged pHabl5' (or T39-1-2) fragments in all patients with Ph-positive CML, indicating the linkage of the 5' end of ABL to the 3' part of M-BCR on 9q+ chromosome. However, this linkage was absent in two Ph-negative CML patients who could be studied. The results suggest that a genomic insertion of 3' ABL into M-BCR in Ph-negative CML occurs by a single cytogenetic event rather than a two-translocation mechanism.
Expression and regulation of the evi-1 gene in the human factor-dependent leukemia cell line, UCSD/AML1.	The human factor-dependent leukemia cell line UCSD/AML1 contains the t(3;3) (q21;q26) characteristic of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets. The human homologue of the murine leukemia oncogene evi-1 was recently localized to chromosome 3q24-3q28 and transcription of evi-1 is a frequent event in mouse-retrovirus-induced leukemias (17). To determine whether translocations near human 3q24 might induce similar genetic changes, we examined and compared evi-1 and c-myc expression and regulation in UCSD/AML1 cells. Steady-state evi-1 transcripts were detected in UCSD/AML1 and murine leukemia M1 cells, but were not present in HL60 or Namalwa human leukemia cells. Transcription assays showed the evi-1 gene was actively transcribed in UCSD/AML1, but not HL60 nuclei. Evi-1 transcript sizes and half-life were similar in UCSD/AML1 and human HEC-1B carcinoma cells which express evi-1 transcripts, but do not have abnormalities involving chromosome 3. An alternative splice site detected by polymerase chain reaction was present in transcripts from both cell lines. Regulation of evi-1 RNA in UCSD/AML1 cells was similar to that of actin transcripts in response to cycloheximide or phorbol-ester-induced macrophage differentiation. After withdrawal of granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), evi-1, actin, and histone H3 transcripts declined in concert with exit from the cell cycle. Minor differences in rates of recovery were noted for these three genes after GM-CSF restimulation. In contrast, c-myc was expressed at high levels in UCSD/AML1 cells and showed evidence for specific regulation in response to cycloheximide, phorbol ester, and GM-CSF withdrawal and restimulation. These studies suggest the 3q translocation in UCSD/AML1 cells is associated with evi-1 transcription and expression of a potential transforming gene. In contrast to c-myc, evi-1 expression is minimally altered by biologically active chemicals or growth factor stimulation.
Alternative splicing of PML transcripts predicts coexpression of several carboxy-terminally different protein isoforms.	The acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL)-specific chromosome 15;17 translocation leads to the fusion of a newly identified putative transcription factor, PML, and the retinoic acid receptor alpha. We have characterized the structure of the PML genomic locus and preliminarily characterized its expression pattern. The PML locus spans a minimum of 35 kb and is subdivided into nine exons. The putative PML DNA binding site is encoded by exons 2 and 3. We isolated a large number of alternatively spliced PML transcripts that encode numerous PML isoforms. Two groups of isoforms were identified that differed either in their C-terminal region or in the length of their central region, but retained the putative DNA-binding and dimerization domains. RNAase protection experiments revealed that the different PML isoforms are equally expressed in established cell lines of different histological origin.
Molecular cloning of the breakpoints of a complex Philadelphia chromosome translocation: identification of a repeated region on chromosome 17.	Complex translocations in chronic myelogenous leukemia involve various chromosomes, in addition to chromosomes 9 and 22, in a nonrandom fashion. We have analyzed the DNA from leukemia cells characterized by a complex translocation, t(9;22;10;17)(q34;q11;p13;q21), by using the techniques of Southern blot hybridization, in situ hybridization, and molecular cloning; one of the breakpoints is at 17q21, a band that is frequently involved in complex 9;22 translocations. All of the breakpoint junctions and the corresponding normal sequences from the four involved chromosomes have been molecularly cloned. Restriction mapping is consistent with a simple concerted exchange of chromosomal material among the four chromosomes, except that additional changes appeared to have occurred within the chromosome 17 sequences. The cloned sequences on chromosome 17 at band q21 were found to be repeated in normal cells. By fluorescence in situ hybridization, a strong signal is seen at 17q21, but a weaker signal is also present at 17q23. By comparison with other primate species, an inversion in chromosome 17 during evolution appears to be responsible for the splitting of the cluster of repeat units in normal human cells.
The translocation t(1;22)(p13;q13) is a nonrandom marker specifically associated with acute megakaryocytic leukemia in young children.	We present the nonrandom occurrence, frequency, and degree of immunophenotype association of the t(1;22)(p13;q13) in children with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). This karyotype anomaly occurred in leukemia cells from five of 445 (1.1%) children with newly diagnosed ANLL who were successfully studied by cytogenetic analysis at four European centers between January 1987 and January 1992. The occurrence of the t(1;22) was restricted to the French-American-British classification (FAB) subtype M7. The overall incidence in children with acute megakaryocytic leukemia (AMKL) was 27.8% (5/18 cases); in infants with AMKL, the frequency of the t(1;22) was 66.7% (4/6 cases). Three of the patients carrying this anomaly had a diploid karyotype, whereas in two cases a hyperdiploid karyotype was found. However, in all five patients, the t(1;22) was the only translocation event present at diagnosis. All patients received aggressive chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Two patients died within 15 months of diagnosis without entering remission. One of three patients who entered remission died 7 months after diagnosis, most likely from intramedullar hemorrhage. Only two of the five children with the t(1;22) who received autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT) are alive and in complete remission (CR) 23 and 40 months after diagnosis, respectively. At the time of diagnosis, the age of the oldest child carrying the t(1;22) was 18 months. The cases with this chromosome anomaly were compared with an age-matched group of five children with AMKL lacking this translocation. The patients with the t(1;22) had a lower median value of the peripheral white blood cell (WBC) count and a higher median hemoglobin level than the patients from the matched group. In the latter cases, normocellular or hypercellular bone marrow (BM) was detected at diagnosis. In contrast, all children with the t(1;22) in our series had a hypocellular BM. Histological BM analyses were available in three of these patients and showed marked fibrosis. Other clinical and laboratory parameters showed no obvious differences between the matched groups. Despite intensive chemotherapy, AMKL in children appears to be associated with a poor prognosis. The clinical courses of the children with AMKL and the t(1;22) presented may be indicative of a beneficial effect of autologous BMT in this subset of patients.
Doublet translocation at GGA is mediated directly by mutant tRNA(2Gly).	Members of the sufS class of -1 frameshift suppressors have alterations of the GGA/G-decoding tRNA(2Gly). Suppressor-promoted frameshifting at GGA was shown in this study to be directly mediated by the mutant tRNA(2Gly). We disproved the possibility that, in the presence of the compromised mutant tRNA(2Gly), either wild-type tRNA(1Gly), wild-type tRNA(3Gly), a GGA-reading mutant form of tRNA(3Gly), or any other agent suppresses the frameshift mutation trpE91.
Reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes four and six of Paragonimus westermani from the Philippines.	C-banding patterns have been observed in 14 specimens of Paragonimus westermani from Jaro, Leyte, the Philippines. One of them showed mutations of 2 chromosomes in spreads. Comparative analysis of C-banding patterns between the individual and standard type clarified that the mutant resulted from a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 4 and 6.
Detection and characterization of point mutations in the choroideremia candidate gene by PCR-SSCP analysis and direct DNA sequencing.	By making use of positional cloning strategies we recently isolated a candidate gene for choroideremia (CHM), which is transcribed in retina, choroid, and/or retinal pigment epithelium. The gene contains an open reading frame that is structurally altered in 10 CHM patients with sizable deletions and in a female patient with a balanced translocation involving the Xq21 band. Employing PCR-SSCP analysis and direct DNA sequencing we have now detected and characterized different point mutations in five patients with CHM. Each of these mutations introduces a termination codon into the open reading frame of the CHM candidate gene, thereby predicting a distinct truncated protein product. Together these findings provide convincing evidence for the candidate gene being identical with the choroideremia gene.
Prevalence of the 14/20 centric fusion chromosomal aberration in US Simmental cattle.	Cytogenetic evaluation was made on 353 Simmental cattle (166 male, 187 female) from 113 herds in 26 states. One hundred thirty-eight (39%) were found to be heterozygous-positive for the 14/20 centric fusion chromosomal translocation, including 41 (25%) males and 97 (52%) females. One submitted heparinized blood sample from a Simbrah bull was found to be positive for 14/20 and 1/29 centric fusions. Sampling, which was based on requests, was highly selective. Thus, the 39% prevalence found was not representative of 14/20 centric fusion in the national Simmental breed. On the basis of our findings, cytogenetic evaluation of breeding stock was consistent with modern management practice.
Dek-can rearrangement in translocation (6;9)(p23;q34).	The translocation (6;9)(p23;q34) is mainly found in specific subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The diagnosis of this translocation is not easy since the cytogenetic change is quite subtle. The two genes involved in this translocation were recently isolated and diagnosis at the DNA-level became an additional option. Both the dek gene on chromosome 6 and the can gene on chromosome 9 contain one specific intron where breakpoints of t(6;9) patients were found to cluster. The translocation results in a consistent chimeric dek-can mRNA which is generated from the 6p- derivative. Five centers participated in a study to estimate the incidence of t(6;9) in leukemic patients using conventional Southern blot analysis. Patients (n = 320) with either acute undifferentiated leukemia (AUL), AML, MDS or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were screened for rearrangement of the genes involved in this translocation. Four of these 320 patients showed rearrangement of the can gene on chromosome 9, of which one also had a rearranged dek gene on chromosome 6. A further 20 patients were studied with karyotypic aberrations in which either the short arm of chromosome 6 or the long arm of chromosome 9 were specifically involved. Both conventional Southern blot analysis and contour-clamped homogeneous electric field (CHEF) analysis failed to show dek-can rearrangement in any of these patients. The results of our study indicate that the incidence of the t(6;9) is a low as reported based on cytogenetic data and that rearrangement of the dek and can genes is mainly restricted to this specific translocation.
Cytogenetics for detection of minimal residual disease in acute myeloblastic leukemia.	Bone marrow samples collected from acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) patients in complete clinical and hematological remission were studied for the persistence of cytogenetic abnormalities. AML patients from the three favorable cytogenetic categories [inv 16, t(8;21) and t(15;17)] and patients from the unfavorable cytogenetic categories (+8, -5, -7 and Philadelphia-positive) were studied. Seventy-one patients had evaluable metaphase spreads in remission marrows and 20 (28%) had one or more abnormal metaphases identical to that present in the pretreatment marrow. All 20 of these patients relapsed within 78 weeks, thus there were no false positive studies. Fifty-one patients had only diploid metaphases in their complete remission marrow, 25 relapsed, and 21 remained in continuous complete remission. Thus there was a 49% false negative rate of this study. These data indicate that the failure to detect residual chromosomally abnormal cells in the bone marrow does not guarantee continuous complete remission. Cytogenetic study was most useful in the favorable cytogenetic groups and least useful in the unfavorable groups. The persistence of normal metaphases in pretreatment marrows did not affect outcome or risk of recurrence. Twenty-five of 34 evaluable patients who relapsed after remission had either the identical cytogenetic abnormality present in the pretreatment marrow or showed the identical abnormality with additional chromosomal changes. Thus study indicates that cytogenetic examinations of complete remission bone marrow samples in patients with AML provides an objective method for detecting residual leukemia, and identifies patients with a potential for prolonged disease-free survival.
Translocation t(9;11)(p21;q23) in pediatric de novo and secondary acute myeloblastic leukemia.	The t(9;11)(p21;q23) has been associated with characteristic clinical features and a superior treatment outcome in previously untreated pediatric acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML), but has not been well studied in children with secondary AML. This translocation was detected in 6.7% of de novo and 46% of secondary AML patients treated at St Jude Children's Research Hospital over an 11-year period. Clinical, immunophenotypic, and morphologic characteristics were examined for the cases of t(9;11) secondary AML (n = 12) and compared with findings for children with t(9;11) de novo AML (n = 12). Patients with t(9;11) secondary AML were older at diagnosis, had higher hemoglobin levels, and central nervous system leukemia or hepatosplenomegaly was less frequent. These differences probably reflect survival of the first malignancy and close clinical scrutiny during post-treatment follow-up. Whereas the t(9;11)(p21;q23) occurred exclusively in the French-American-British (FAB) M5 subtype in de novo AML, the FAB M0 and M4 subtypes were also represented in secondary cases. The complete remission rate was somewhat higher for the de novo AML group (91 vs 58%; p = 0.16); their event-free survival was clearly superior to that for children with t(9;11) secondary AML (p = 0.003). Host differences related to the previous malignancy or its treatment could explain the poorer clinical outcome for patients with t(9;11) secondary AML. Alternatively, there could be critical differences at the translocation site or additional, hidden molecular events, that explain the different outcomes.
Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with both t(1;19) and t(9;22).	The chromosomal rearrangements t(1;19)(q23;p13.3) and t(9;22) (q34;q11.2) are independent abnormalities commonly observed in the blast cells of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We report three children whose leukemic cells contained both translocations at diagnosis. The patients, two males aged 3 and 8 years and a female aged 14 years, all presented with central nervous system involvement. One patient exhibited a pre-B leukemic phenotype (cytoplasmic immunoglobulin, cIg, positive), while two had an early pre-B phenotype (cIg negative). All three patients received radiotherapy and multiagent chemotherapy which included an epipodophyllotoxin in two patients. Two patients suffered relapses of ALL, in both cases with disappearance of t(1;19)-containing clones but persistence of t(9;22). The two patients who received an epipodophyllotoxin as part of their chemotherapeutic regimen both developed secondary myeloid leukemia with entirely new cytogenetic findings, including abnormalities of chromosome band 11q23. These patients are the first to be described with this unusual combination of cytogenetic abnormalities.
Molecular and classical cytogenetic analyses demonstrate an apomorphic reciprocal chromosomal translocation in Gorilla gorilla.	The existence of an apomorphic reciprocal chromosomal translocation in the gorilla lineage has been asserted or denied by various cytogeneticists. We employed a new molecular cytogenetic strategy (chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization) combined with high-resolution banding, replication sequence analysis, and fluorochrome staining to demonstrate that a reciprocal translocation between ancestral chromosomes homologous to human chromosome 5 and 17 has indeed occurred.
Acute myeloid leukemia in a child with hereditary thrombocytopenia.	A child with a known diagnosis of an autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia, Fechtner Syndrome, developed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Recently the disease gene for the inherited macrothrombocytopenias has been identified as MYH9, encoding for non-muscle myosin heavy chain-A. MYH9 has never been associated with the development of acute leukemia, but MYH11 is disrupted in the M4 eosinophilia sub-type of AML (inv16). The patients leukemic blasts did carry the common t(8;21) which yields an AML1-ETO fusion protein that inhibits AML-1. Despite his thrombocytopenia, the patient successfully completed intensive bone marrow cytoreduction without significant bleeding complications and is now in remission for over 3 years.
Evolution of tumor chromosome abnormalities after therapy in a pediatric astrocytoma.	Chromosome studies originally performed on a patient with an untreated pontine astrocytoma showed a trisomy for 1q as the sole chromosome aberration. After the patient received radiation and chemotherapy, subsequent study indicated the presence of the original trisomy for 1q, as well as trisomy for chromosomes 2, 3q, and 17, in a tumor that now, histologically, is glioblastoma multiforme. In addition to the numerical aberrations, chromosome rearrangements were observed, involving translocation breakpoints that have been reported as "hot spots" associated with the clastogenetic effect of ionizing radiation.
Genetic analysis of the Om(2D) locus in Drosophila ananassae.	The Om(2D)63 mutants were mutagenized by gamma-ray irradiation and DEB feeding. A total of nine revertants were recovered and characterized; eight revertants were homozygous-lethal expressing no appreciable abnormality in cuticular pattern and central nervous system, and all failed to complement the lethality with each other. Two of the eight expressed embryonic lethality and were associated with cytologically detectable deletions including the putative Om(2D) locus, while four were associated with rearrangements in a region distal to the insertion sites of the tom elements. No rearrangement was detected in the remaining two by Southern blot analysis. One of the nine revertants was homozygous-viable with wild-type eyes and was associated with a reciprocal translocation with the break points at 48B in 2R (Om(2D) locus) and 96A in 3R. Based on these data, it is concluded that interaction between the region comprised of a single complementation group of the recessive lethal and the inserted tom elements seems to be responsible for the Om(2D) mutant phenotype. In addition, two induced dominant enhancers specific to Om(2D)63 were identified; both mapped on chromosome 2.
Acute erythroleukemia with t(3;5) accompanied by hepatocellular carcinoma.	A female patient in whom acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL, FAB-M6) developed during treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is described. Two years after partial hepatectomy and subsequent chemotherapy, leukemia developed following a 2 month preleukemic stage. Chromosomal analysis revealed an abnormal karyotype, 46,XX,-5, + der(5)t(3;5)(q25;q31). The balanced translocation t(3;5) has been observed in all types of ANLL and MDS except for ANLL M3 subtype. We summarize patients with ANLL M6 and t(3;5).
Detection of translocations of 10p by non-radioactive in situ hybridization of VIM gene in SV40-transformed human cell lines.	SV40-transformed human fibroblasts exhibit characteristic chromosome imbalances, fairly well correlated with the activity of enzymes encoded by genes located on chromosome segments either in deficiency or in excess. However, a major discrepancy existed for the expression of vimentin gene (VIM), which was high, even though the map location of the gene (10p) was missing in many cell lines. An in situ hybridization technique using a biotinylated probe for the human VIM was applied to detect eventual cryptic translocations, as chromosome 10p is difficult to identify. In two cell lines (WI 98 and HEL1 HBLT) in which a loss of copy number of 10p was assumed after karyotyping, a signal for VIM was detected in unidentified short arms of derivative chromosomes. This exemplifies that in situ hybridization is a powerful complement to classical cytogenetics to detect rearrangements in highly rearranged karyotypes from transformed or cancerous cells. These results also strengthen the interpretation of the correlation between karyotypic and metabolic imbalances in transformed cells.
Molecular analysis of chromosomal rearrangements using pulsed field gel electrophoresis and somatic cell hybrids.	Many human genetic diseases, including some cancers, are characterized by consistent chromosome abnormalities, such as deletions and translocations. Analyses of these mutations often prove crucial to the eventual cloning and characterization of the gene(s) responsible for the disease. Two methods for analyzing these chromosome abnormalities have been developed in recent years: somatic cell hybridization and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Somatic cell hybridization is a technique for segregating an aberrant chromosome from its normal homologue in a cell derived from an unrelated species, which is usually a rodent. Panels of such hybrids dividing a given chromosomal region into increasingly smaller units can be constructed and used specifically to map DNA probes into those units. PFGE can then be used to define precise physical distances between such an array of chromosome abnormalities. Demonstrations of these analytic techniques are presented, using as an example chromosomal abnormalities involving human chromosome band 11p13, the locus for the Wilms' tumor, aniridia, genitourinary abnormality, and mental retardation (WAGR) syndrome.
Centromere locations and associated chromosome rearrangements in Arabidopsis lyrata and A. thaliana.	We analyzed linkage and chromosomal positions of genes in A. lyrata ssp. petraea that are located near the centromere (CEN) regions of A. thaliana, using at least two genes from the short and long arms of each chromosome. In our map, genes from all 10 A. thaliana chromosome arms are also tightly linked in A. lyrata. Genes from the regions on the two sides of CEN5 have distant map localizations in A. lyrata (genes on the A. thaliana short-arm genes are on linkage group AL6, and long-arm genes are on AL7), but genes from the other four A. thaliana centromere regions remain closely linked in A. lyrata. The observation of complete linkage between short- and long-arm centromere genes, but not between genes in other genome regions that are separated by similar physical distances, suggests that crossing-over frequencies near the A. lyrata ssp. petraea centromere regions are low, as in A. thaliana. Thus, the centromere positions appear to be conserved between A. thaliana and A. lyrata, even though three centromeres have been lost in A. thaliana, and the core satellite sequences in the two species are very different. We can now definitively identify the three centromeres that were eliminated in the fusions that formed the A. thaliana chromosomes. However, we cannot tell whether genes were lost along with these centromeres, because such genes are absent from the A. thaliana genome, which is the sole source of markers for our mapping.
Association of Treacher Collins syndrome and translocation 6p21.31/16p13.11: exclusion of the locus from these candidate regions.	Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS) is an autosomal dominant defect of craniofacial development which has not been chromosomally localized. We have identified a mother and two children who have TCS and also a balanced translocation t(6;16)(p21.31;p13.11), which suggested the possibility that the TCS locus might be located at one of the translocation breakpoints. These were defined by in-situ hybridization as 6p21.31 (by using loci in the HLA complex defined by the probes p45.1DP beta 003/HLA-DPB2 and pRS5.10/HLA class I chain) and 16p13.11 (by using probes pACHF1.3.2/D16S8 and VK45/D16S131). Pairwise and multipoint linkage analysis using localized chromosome 6 probes and chromosome 16 probes in 12 unrelated TCS families with multiple affected siblings excluded the TCS locus from proximity to both translocation breakpoints. These data were confirmed when a third affected child, who did not exhibit the translocation, was born to the mother.
The t(1;19)(q23;p13) results in consistent fusion of E2A and PBX1 coding sequences in acute lymphoblastic leukemias.	The t(1;19)(q23;p13) chromosomal translocation is observed cytogenetically in 25% of children with pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and is associated with an adverse treatment outcome. The t(1;19) juxtaposes the E2A gene from chromosome 19 with the PBX1 gene on chromosome 1, leading to the production of fusion transcripts and resultant chimeric proteins that contain the transcriptional-activating motif of E2A and the DNA-binding homeodomain of PBX1. To investigate the molecular nature of E2A/PBX1 fusion in patients with t(1;19) ALL we used an RNA-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) procedure to amplify a portion of the chimeric transcript. We detected E2A/PBX1 fusion transcripts in cells from 97% (37 of 38) of cases in which the t(1;19) had been observed cytogenetically. Molecular evidence of E2A/PBX1 fusion transcripts was also observed in a patient in whom a t(1;19) was not detected cytogenetically and in one patient with subclinical levels of minimal residual disease before overt clinical relapse. In all PCR-positive cases the junction of E2A and PBX1 coding sequences occurred at precisely the same location as demonstrated by hybridization of PCR products with a fusion site-specific detection oligonucleotide. These findings demonstrate the consistent fusion of E2A and PBX1 coding sequences resulting from t(1;19) and suggest that site-specific fusion of E2A and PBX1 is an important pathogenic event in t(1;19) ALL.
MYC rearrangement and translocations involving band 8q24 in diffuse large cell lymphomas.	The configuration of the MYC gene in diffuse large cell lymphomas (DLCL) with translocations involving band 8q24 [t(8q24)] has not been systematically studied. We collected cytogenetic and clinical data on 171 consecutive cases of DLCL, including cleaved, noncleaved, and immunoblastic types, of which 96 had DNA available and 124 had abnormal karyotypes. The cases with DNA available were evaluated for MYC rearrangement (MYC-R) by Southern hybridization of EcoRI-digested tumor DNA using an exon-1 probe, a combination of probe and enzyme known to detect over 85% of breaks in sporadic Burkitt's lymphoma. In cases studied at diagnosis, MYC-R, t(8;14)(q24;q32), or other t(8q24) were not prognostically significant. Among the 124 cases with karyotypic abnormalities, seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus was significantly more common in cases with a t(8q24) (72%) than in cases without it (9%) (P less than .05). Of the four cases with an MYC -R, two had a t(8;14), one had a t(7;8;14)(p15;q24;q32), and one had a t(8;?)(q24;?) and a del(8)(q24). In the three previous cases with translocations involving 8q24 and 14q32, comigration of the rearranged MYC band with either the J region or the switch-mu region of the Ig heavy chain gene could not be demonstrated, leaving the 14q32 breakpoint undefined at the molecular level. Among the remaining 72 cases where both an abnormal karyotype and molecular data were available, 11 had a t(8q24), either t(8;14) or t(8;22)(q24;q11), in the absence of an MYC-R. In these cases, the 8q24 break was presumably located outside of the EcoRI MYC fragment. All 15 cases with a t(8q24) were also screened for point mutations in the PvuII site in the first exon of MYC; two cases that were not MYC-R showed loss of this restriction site. These results indicate that in most DLCL with t(8;14) or other t(8q24), the 8q24 breakpoint lies away from the MYC gene; in a minority of these cases, point mutations in regulatory noncoding regions were detected.
The human t(1;19) translocation in pre-B ALL produces multiple nuclear E2A-Pbx1 fusion proteins with differing transforming potentials.	The t(1;19) translocation that characterizes 25% of pediatric pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (pre-B ALL) produces a chimeric gene, joining 5' sequences that encode a transcriptional activator domain of E2A with 3' sequences that, in part, encode a homeo box domain of a new gene called pbx1. Two E2A-pbx1 transcripts have been cloned. They encode the putative fusion proteins, p85(E2A-Pbx1) and p77(E2A-Pbx1), which differ in Pbx1 sequences alone, containing unique carboxyl termini whose sequences diverge after the Pbx1 homeo box. In this study, an antiserum to Pbx1 was used to investigate the identity and abundance of E2A-Pbx1 fusion proteins in both the pre-B ALL cell line, 697, and in cryopreserved leukemic bone marrow cells, obtained from six children with t(1;19)-positive pre-B ALL. Five species of E2A-Pbx1 proteins were identified in all cells containing t(1;19), two of which were indistinguishable from in vitro-translated p85(E2A-Pbx1) and p77(E2A-Pbx1). To assess the biological properties of p85(E2A-Pbx1) and p77(E2A-Pbx1) in fibroblasts, the cDNAs encoding these proteins were cloned into retroviral vectors, and each was introduced into NIH-3T3 cells. Both p85(E2A-Pbx1) and p77(E2A-Pbx1) are localized in the nucleus, and expression of either resulted in malignant conversion of NIH-3T3 cells as assayed by tumor formation in nude mice. When scored by focus formation, density-independent growth, and growth in agar assays, p77(E2A-Pbx1) was a much more potent transforming protein than was p85(E2A-Pbx1). Because subtle mutations in p85(E2A-Pbx1) converted its transforming activity into that of p77(E2A-Pbx1), we suggest that a sequence within the unique carboxyl terminus of p85(E2A-Pbx1) serves to negatively regulate its biochemical activity.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis to study the genetic origin of complete hydatidiform mole.	To determine the genetic origin of the complete hydatidiform mole, 20 abnormal pregnancies were studied with restriction fragment length polymorphism with five genomic probes: EJ 6.6, beta-globin gene, 3'alpha-hypervariable region, J-Bir, and St14. In the 12 cases of molar pregnancy, pure paternal origin was proved in 11 cases, but both maternal and paternal inheritance were shown in only one case. In the cases with pure paternal origin, all of the restriction fragment length polymorphisms were homozygous, although those of the fathers were heterozygous at 15 loci. In the four cases that mimicked hydatidiform mole but were diagnosed as hydropic change of villi, both paternal and maternal inheritance were noted. In the four pregnancies with blighted ovum, both paternal and maternal inheritance were shown in three cases; and in one case with a balanced translocation between chromosomes 13 and 14, only paternal inheritance was noted. This study showed that most of the complete hydatidiform moles were caused by fertilization of an empty egg by a duplicated haploid sperm, but rare exceptions may exist.
A novel EWS-WT1 gene fusion product in desmoplastic small round cell tumor is a potent transactivator of the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) gene.	Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is a primitive sarcoma characterized by a recurrent chromosomal translocation, t(11;22)(p13;q12), which fuses the 5' exons of the EWS gene to the 3' exons of the WT1 gene. EWS-WT1 chimeras are heterogeneous as a result of fusions of different regions of the EWS gene to the WT1 gene. We report here a rare and novel EWS-WT1 variant, EWS-WT1 5/10, in a 6-year-old boy diagnosed with DSRCT and analyze the potential transactivation effect of the fusion oncoprotein. The predicted product is comprised of the N-terminal transactivation domain of EWS and lacks any sequence derived from the WT1 gene product. Nonetheless, the truncated protein was able to stimulate expression of the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor gene, a potent antiapoptotic receptor tyrosine kinase with potentially important roles in DSRCT etiology. These findings raise the possibility that the oncogenic potential of EWS-WT1 fusions is not necessarily a consequence of the fusion protein product per se.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors induce the degradation of the t(8;21) fusion oncoprotein.	The t(8;21) chromosomal translocation that generates the fusion oncoprotein RUNX1-ETO predominates in leukemia patients of the French-American-British (FAB) class M2 subtype. The oncoprotein has the capacity to promote expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and induces leukemia in association with other genetic alterations. Here, we show that RUNX1-ETO undergoes degradation in response to treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitors, one of which, depsipeptide (DEP), is currently undergoing phase II clinical testing in a variety of malignancies. These compounds induce turnover of RUNX1-ETO without affecting the stability of RUNX1-ETO partner proteins. In addition, RUNX1-ETO physically interacts with heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). DEP treatment interrupts the association of RUNX1-ETO with HSP90 and induces proteasomal degradation of RUNX1-ETO. DEP and the HSP90 antagonist 17-allylamino-geldanamycin (17-AAG) both triggered RUNX1-ETO degradation, but without any additive or cooperative effects. These findings may stimulate the development of more rational and effective approaches for treating t(8;21) patients using histone deacetylase inhibitors or HSP90 inhibitors.
A novel human homeobox gene lies at the chromosome 10 breakpoint in lymphoid neoplasias with chromosomal translocation t(10;14).	The translocation t(10;14)(q24;q11) is an acquired change seen in 4% to 7% of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALL). We previously demonstrated that the translocation juxtaposes the T-cell receptor (TCR) delta-chain gene in chromosome 14q11 with a novel region in chromosome 10q24 and is likely catalyzed by recombinases normally involved in the generation of immunoglobulin and TCR diversity. We now present the sequence of a gene on chromosome 10 that lies immediately telomeric of the breakpoints in nine new ALL patients with acquired rearrangements in 10q24. The gene is a novel human homeobox gene and is expressed in leukemic cells from ALL patients with rearrangements in a defined chromosome 10 breakpoint cluster region, but not in other adult tissues or cell lines. This new gene has been designated HOX11. Our results strongly support a role for homeobox genes in oncogenesis and may represent the first example of a human cancer in which deregulated expression of an unaltered homeobox gene is involved in tumorigenesis.
A radiation hybrid map of the proximal long arm of human chromosome 11 containing the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) and bcl-1 disease loci.	We describe a high-resolution radiation hybrid map of the proximal long arm of human chromosome 11 containing the bcl-1 and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) disease gene loci. We used X-ray irradiation and cell fusion to generate a panel of 102 hamster-human somatic cell hybrids containing fragments of human chromosome 11. Sixteen human loci in the 11q12-13 region were mapped by statistical analysis of the cosegregation of markers in these radiation hybrids. The most likely order for these loci is C1NH-OSBP-(CD5/CD20)-PGA-FTH1-COX8-PYGM -SEA-KRN1-(MTC/P11EH/HSTF1/INT2)-GST3- PPP1A. Our localization of the human protooncogene SEA between PYGM and INT2, two markers that flank MEN-1, suggests SEA as a potential candidate for the MEN-1 locus. We map two mitogenic fibroblast growth factor genes, HSTF1 and INT2, close to bcl-1, a mapping that is consistent with previously published data. Our map places the human leukocyte antigen genes CD5 and CD20 far from the bcl-1 locus, indicating that CD5 and CD20 expression is unlikely to be altered by bcl-1 rearrangements. PPP1A, which has been postulated as a MEN-1 candidate tumor suppressor gene, and GST3, a gene transcriptionally active in many human cancers, both map distal to the bcl-1 translocation cluster and the region containing MEN-1, and therefore are unlikely to be directly involved in bcl-1 or MEN-1.
Production of wheat-rye substitution lines and identification of chromosome composition of karyotypes using C-banding, GISH, and SSR markers]	Based on the cross (Triticum aestivum L. x Secale cereale L.) x T. aestivum L., wheat-rye substitution lines (2n = 42) were produced with karyotypes containing, instead of a pair of homologous wheat chromosomes, a homeologous pair of rye chromosomes. The chromosome composition of these lines was described by GISH and C-banding methods, and SSR analysis. The results of genomic in situ hybridization demonstrated that karyotype of these lines included one pair of rye chromosomes each and lacked wheat--rye translocations. C-banding and SSR markers were used to identify rye chromosomes and determine the wheat chromosomes at which the substitution occurred. The lines were designated 1R(1D), 2R(2D)2, 2R(2D)3, 3R(3B), 6R(6A)2. The chromosome composition of lines IR(1A), 2R(W)1, 5R(W), 5R(5A), and 6R(W)1, which were earlier obtained according to the same scheme for crossing, was characterized using methods of telocentric analysis, GISH, C-banding, and SSR analysis. These lines were identified as 1R(1A), 2R(2D)1, 5R(5D), 5R(5A), and 6R(6A)1, C-banding of chromosomes belonging to line 1R(1A) revealed the presence of two translocated chromosomes (3DS.3DL-del. and 4AL.W) during simultaneous amplification of SSR markers located on 3DL and 4AS arms. The "combined" long arm of the newly derived chromosome 4A is assumed to be formed from the long arm of chromosome 4AS itself and a deleted segment 3DL. All examined lines are cytologically stable, except for 3R(3B), which does not affect the stability of rye 3R chromosome transfer. Chromosome identification and classification of the lines will permit them to be models for genetic studies that can be used thereafter as promising "secondary gene pools" for the purpose of plant breeding.
Clinical and laboratory characteristics of two acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients with dicentric (9; 20) (p11 - 13; q11)]	To explore the morphologic, immunophenotypic, cytogenetic and clinical features of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients with dicentric (9; 20) (p11 - 13; q11).
Study of genes involved in chronic myeloid leukemia with t (3; 21) (q26; q22) in blastic crisis]	To explore genes involved in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) with t (3; 21) (q26; q22) chromosome translocation in blastic crisis.
Clinical and laboratory study of a complex translocation t (6; 21; 8) (p22; q22; q22) in two patients with acute myeloid leukemia]	To investigate the clinical and laboratory characteristics of a complex translocation t (6; 21; 8) (p22; q22; q22) in two patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
The value of multiplex fluorescence in situ hybridization in the detection of complex karyotypic abnormalities of acute myeloid leukemia]	To investigate the value of multiplex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in the detection of complex karyotypic abnormalities of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Report of a case of hybrid acute leukemia with t (12; 22) and literature review]	To report a hybrid acute leukemia (HAL) patient with t (12; 22) (p13; q12).
Molecular diagnosis of sarcomas: chromosomal translocations in sarcomas.	Sarcomas are rare, numerous in type, and often difficult to definitively classify. Work in the last 2 decades has revealed that a significant subset of sarcomas are associated with specific chromosomal translocations producing chimeric (fusion) genes that play a role in the sarcomas' biology and are helpful in their differential diagnosis.
Pediatric renal cell carcinoma: clinical, pathologic, and molecular abnormalities associated with the members of the mit transcription factor family.	We describe the clinical features, outcome, pathology, cytogenetics, and molecular aspects of 13 pediatric papillary renal cell carcinomas during a 19-year period. Seven cases (54%) had translocations involving Xp11.2 (TFE3). They were identified by cytogenetic, molecular, and/or immunohistochemical analyses. All Xp11.2+ translocations were TFE3+ by immunostaining. Cytogenetic and/or polymerase chain reaction analyses identified 3 cases with t(X17) and 1 case with t(1;17), and all had additional translocations. Histologic features in common in TFE3+ tumors also were present in some TFE3- tumors. One TFE3- tumor had complex cytogenetic abnormalities, 55XY,+2,del(3)(p14),+7,+8,+12,+13,+16,+17,+20[11 ], and 2 cases had normal karyotypes. None had t(6;11)/TFEB+ immunostaining. Five cases had focal, weak MITF tumor immunostaining. The key clinical findings were as follows: (1) The presence of an Xp11.2 (TFE3) translocation frequently is associated with advanced stage at initial examination. (2) All patients who underwent complete, partial nephrectomy with clear margins (adequate only for stage 1) and resection of metastases were alive and relapse-free at last follow-up. (3) The mean +/- SD event-free survival and overall survival rates at 5 years were both 92% +/- 7.4%. (4) One patients with a TFE3+ and MITF+ tumor and 66-87,XXY,der(1)t(1;8)del(4)(q?) der(11)t(11;15)der17t(X;17 abnormalities died 9 months after diagnosis.
An acquired translocation in JAK2 Val617Phe-negative essential thrombocythemia associated with autosomal spread of X-inactivation.	The acquired mutation Val617Phe in the tyrosine kinase JAK2 was recently identified in most but not all patients with classical myeloproliferative disorders. We describe a cytogenetic and molecular study of a JAK2Val617Phe-negative case of essential thrombocythemia harboring the acquired translocation t(X;5)(q13;q33). We show that this involves the inactive X-chromosome and is associated with silencing of autosomal genes within the adjacent 5q minus syndrome common deleted region. This is the first documented example of autosomal gene silencing adjacent to an X-autosome breakpoint in human malignancy and such a mechanism may underlie the pathogenesis of related disorders with translocations involving Xq13.
Expression of B cell-specific activator protein/PAX5 in acute myeloid leukemia with t(8;21)(q22;q22).	The blasts of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(8;21)(q22;q22) frequently express the B-cell antigen CD19, which is regulated by B cell-specific activator protein (BSAP) encoded by the PAX5 gene, a protein important for B-cell lineage commitment and development. We assessed for BSAP expression in 28 AML cases with t(8;21) and 46 AML cases of other types. CD19 was expressed by 26 (93%) cases of AML with t(8;21) and 1 AML case (2%) without t(8;21). We also tested a subset of cases for the B-cell transcription factors Oct2 and OCA-B (BOB.1) and the B-cell antigens CD20, CD22, and CD79a. Immunostaining performed on bone marrow biopsy specimens demonstrated BSAP expression in all 28 AML cases with t(8;21): weak, 21; strong, 7. By contrast, BSAP was expressed weakly in only 1 AML case without t(8;21). Oct2 was expressed strongly in 12 of 16 AML cases with t(8;21) and 19 of 46 without t(8;21). OCA-B, CD20, CD22, or CD79a were negative in all cases assessed. These results indicate that silencing of PAX5 is not required for commitment to myeloid differentiation and that BSAP expression in AML is found mainly in cases with t(8;21).
Lipoblastoma and lipoblastomatosis.	We report two cases of lipoblastoma of the buttock in a 10-month-old boy and a 20-month-old girl, the first with rearrangement of chromosome 8 and the second without cytogenetic abnormality, and one case of lipoblastomatosis of a leg in a 6-month-old boy with a normal karyotype but with a rearrangement of the PLAG1 gene. Lipoblastoma and lipoblastomatosis are two different presentation of the same rare benign soft tissue mesenchymal tumour arising from fetal white fat and occurring almost exclusively in young children under 3 years. These neoplasms have no malignant potential but may recur in cases of incomplete resection. Histological diagnosis sometimes used to be difficult because of the close resemblance of the lesion with myxod liposarcoma. Nowadays, cytogenetic analysis may contribute to the diagnosis by showing abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 8, leading to rearrangement of the PLAG1 gene. Actual advances in cytogenetic molecular analysis may aid in accurate diagnosis.
Chromosome rearrangements in Pectinidae (Bivalvia: Pteriomorphia) implied based on chromosomal localization of histone H3 gene in four scallops.	Chromosomal structural rearrangement in four scallops, Chlamys farreri (n=19), Patinopecten yessoensis (n=19), Chlamys nobilis (n=16) and Argopecten irradians (n=16), was studied by fluorescence in situ hybridization using histone H3 gene probes. The results show that histone H3 gene sites differ strikingly with regard to number, location, and intensity among, or even within these species. For example, two histone H3 gene loci were detected on the metaphase chromosomes of P. yessoensis, while one locus was found in the others. In P. yessoensis, differing intensities of hybridization signals were detected between homologues 5 and 11, and within homologue 11. These data suggest that the histone H3 gene is a qualified chromosome marker for the preliminary understanding of the historical chromosomal reconstructing of the Pectinidae family. The variable distribution patterns of the histone H3 gene suggest that gene duplication/diminution as well as chromosome rearrangements by inversion and translocation may have played important roles in the genomic evolution of Pectinidae. We also compiled our present results with former published data regarding the chromosome mapping of rDNAs in species of the Pectinidae family. Such comparative chromosomal mapping should improve our understanding of historical chromosomal reconstructions of modern-day scallops.
The role of the nuclear receptor constitutive androstane receptor in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a common liver injury, but the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to the development of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) remain unclear. The pathological roles of the nuclear receptor constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), a key regulator of drug-metabolising enzymes, in the development of NASH were investigated.
Pediatric ALK+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma with t(3;8)(q26.2;q24) translocation and c-myc rearrangement terminating in a leukemic phase.	Pediatric ALK-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL) is usually associated with a favorable prognosis. ALK+ ALCL associated with a leukemic phase is uncommon, but has been associated with an aggressive clinical course and unfavorable prognosis. Overexpression of c-myc has been shown to be a consistent finding in ALK+, but not ALK-negative ALCL (ALK- ALCL), and the c-myc gene is considered a downstream target of deregulated ALK signaling. We describe a pediatric ALK+ ALCL with a leukemic phase at relapse. Similar to other rare cases described in the literature, it followed an aggressive clinical course despite multiple regimens of chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. Lymphoma cells showed aberrant ALK expression and c-myc overexpression. In addition to the characteristic t(2;5)(p23;q35) translocation, a t(3;8)(q26.2;q24) translocation was also present, and c-myc gene rearrangement was confirmed by FISH analysis. The findings in this case demonstrate the association of peripheral blood leukemic involvement and aggressive clinical course, and suggest that other factors, such as c-myc rearrangement, may be responsible for the aggressive clinical behavior in ALK+ ALCL.
Durable responses to imatinib in patients with PDGFRB fusion gene-positive and BCR-ABL-negative chronic myeloproliferative disorders.	Fusion genes derived from the platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB) or alpha (PDGFRA) play an important role in the pathogenesis of BCR-ABL-negative chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs). These fusion genes encode constitutively activated receptor tyrosine kinases that can be inhibited by imatinib. Twelve patients with BCR-ABL-negative CMPDs and reciprocal translocations involving PDGFRB received imatinib for a median of 47 months (range, 0.1-60 months). Eleven had prompt responses with normalization of peripheral-blood cell counts and disappearance of eosinophilia; 10 had complete resolution of cytogenetic abnormalities and decrease or disappearance of fusion transcripts as measured by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Updates were sought from 8 further patients previously described in the literature; prompt responses were described in 7 and persist in 6. Our data show that durable hematologic and cytogenetic responses are achieved with imatinib in patients with PDGFRB fusion-positive, BCR-ABL-negative CMPDs.
Oncogenic role of Pax5 in the T-lymphoid lineage upon ectopic expression from the immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus.	Four of 9 PAX transcription factor genes have been associated with chromosomal translocations in human tumors, although their oncogenic potential has not yet been demonstrated in transgenic mouse models. The B-lymphoidPAX5 gene participates in the generation of the t(9;14)(p13;q32) translocation in germinal center B cells, which leads to deregulated PAX5 expression under the control of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IgH) locus in a subset of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Here we reconstructed a human t(9;14) translocation in a knock-in mouse by inserting a PAX5 minigene into the IgH locus. The IgH(P5ki) allele, which corresponds to a germline rather than somatic mutation, is activated in multipotent hematopoietic progenitors and is subsequently expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) and in natural killer (NK), T, and B cells. Ectopic Pax5 expression interferes with normal T-cell development and causes immature T-lymphoblastic lymphomas in IgH(P5ki/+) and IgH(P5ki/P5ki) mice. Aggressive T-cell lymphomas develop even faster in Ik(Pax5/+) mice expressing Pax5 from the Ikaros locus. Pax5 expression in thymocytes activates B-cell-specific genes and represses T-lymphoid genes, suggesting that Pax5 contributes to lymphomagenesis by deregulating the T-cell gene-expression program. These data identify Pax5 as a potent oncogene and demonstrate that the T-lymphoid lineage is particularly sensitive to the oncogenic action of Pax5.
Ultra-high resolution array painting facilitates breakpoint sequencing.	To describe a considerably advanced method of array painting, which allows the rapid, ultra-high resolution mapping of translocation breakpoints such that rearrangement junction fragments can be amplified directly and sequenced.
Predictable prognostic factor of CD56 expression in patients with acute myeloid leukemia with t(8:21) after high dose cytarabine or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	CD56 expression in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been associated with extramedullary leukemia and multidrug resistance, but its clinical and prognostic significance has not been clearly identified. This study examined CD56 expression in 37 adult de novo AML patients with t(8:21). CD56 was expressed in 25 cases (67.6%). Complete remission (CR) rates were similar in both groups (91.7% vs. 88.7%; P = 0.73), but the relapse rates differed considerably (60% vs. 25%; P = 0.02). The median duration of disease-free survival (DFS) was significantly shorter in the CD56+ (median, 12.2 +/- 6.4 months) than in the CD56- group (median, not reached) (P = 0.02). In addition, the median duration of survival differed significantly in the CD56+ group (median, 14.9 +/- 4.4 months) compared with the CD56- group (median, not reached) (P = 0.01). Of the fifteen transplanted patients who achieved CR, allogeneic HST was performed from their siblings. The median duration of DFS in the CD56+ patients was significantly shorter than the CD56- patients (median, 24.4 +/- 4.5 months vs. median, not reached; P = 0.02). We concluded that CD56 expression correlates to a reduced DFS and survival for AML patients with t(8:21), including those patients who underwent transplantation.
Complex karyotype including chromosomal translocation (8;14) (q24;q32) in one case with B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia.	We report a case of a 64-year-old white female patient, who presented with symptomatic anemia (Hgb: 6.8g/dl), thrombocytopenia (platelets: 94,000/mcl) and leukocytosis (WBC: 156,000/mcl). Peripheral blood smear revealed markedly increased white blood cell count with predominance of atypical lymphoid cells of intermediate size, moderately dense chromatin, and prominent large single nucleoli. Bone marrow aspirate smear showed predominance (78%) of atypical lymphoid cells morphologically identical to those seen in the peripheral blood. The bone marrow core biopsy was hypercellular and packed with prominent infiltrate of prolymphocytes. Immunophenotypic analysis revealed a population of monoclonal cells (75% of all -erythroid cells) characterized by CD45+, CD19+, CD20+, CD5+, HLA-DR+, CD10-, CD23+/-, CD38+ and FMC7-. The abnormal cells were restricted to kappa light chain immunoglobulin with low intensity. Cytogenetic study showed an abnormal clone of eight cells with the following karyotype: 45,X,-X,add(8)(p11.2),t(8;14)(q24;q32),add(20)ql3[8]/46,XX[12]. The relative rarity of B-PLL and the heterogeneity of clinical and laboratory parameters make it difficult to define the natural history and prognosis in all cases. The optimal treatment for B-PLL is still unknown and to date there are no reports of chromosomal abnormalities as a prognostic factor. The patient was treated with six cycles of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone (CHOP). Complete remission was achieved according to the criteria defined by National Cancer Institute Working Group for CLL.
Prognostic and biological implications of genetic abnormalities in multiple myeloma undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation: t(4;14) is the most relevant adverse prognostic factor, whereas RB deletion as a unique abnormality is not associated with adverse prognosis.	Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) has become a powerful technique for prognostic assessment in multiple myeloma (MM). However, the existence of associations between cytogenetic abnormalities compels us to re-assess the value of each abnormality. A total of 260 patients with MM at the time of diagnosis, enrolled in the GEM-2000 Spanish transplant protocol, have been analyzed by FISH in order to ascertain the independent influence on myeloma prognosis of IGH translocations, as well as RB and P53 deletions. Survival analyses showed that patients with t(4;14), RB or P53 deletions had a significantly shorter survival than patients without these abnormalities. However, patients with RB deletions without other abnormalities in FISH analysis, displayed a similar outcome to those patients without genetic changes by FISH (46 vs 54 months, P=0.3). In the multivariate analysis the presence of t(4;14), RB deletion associated with other abnormalities, age >60 years, high proportion of S-phase cells and advanced stage of the disease according to the International Staging System retained their independent prognostic influence. In summary, RB deletion as a sole abnormality does not lead to a shortening in the survival of MM patients, whereas t(4;14) confers the worst prognosis in MM patients treated with high-dose chemotherapy.
Towards mapping phenotypical traits in 18p- syndrome by array-based comparative genomic hybridisation and fluorescent in situ hybridisation.	Molecular karyotyping holds the promise of improving genotype-phenotype correlations for frequent chromosome conditions such as the 18p- syndrome. In spite of more than 150 reported cases with deletions in 18p, no reliable phenotype map for the characteristic clinical findings such as mental retardation, post-natal growth retardation and typical facial features has been established yet. Here, we report on four patients with partial monosomy 18p of different sizes owing to unbalanced translocations that were thoroughly characterised clinically and by molecular karyotyping. One patient had a terminal deletion of 1.6 Mb in 18p and a trisomy of 8q24.23-qter as determined by array-based comparative genomic hybridisation and large insert clone fluorescent in situ hybridisation. In two sibs and a fourth patient, cytogenetic and molecular-cytogenetic analyses showed the terminal deletions in 18p (8.0 and 13.84 Mb, respectively) to be accompanied by partial trisomies of 20p. Literature analyses of typical phenotypic features of 18p-, 8q+ and 20p+ syndromes allowed the attribution of clinical findings in our patients to the respective chromosomal aberration. Based on these data, we propose a phenotype map for several clinical features of the 18p- syndrome: Round face was tentatively mapped to the distal 1.6 Mb of 18p; post-natal growth retardation and seizures to the distal 8 Mb and ptosis and short neck to the proximal half of 18p.
Molecular pathways in follicular lymphoma.	Follicular lymphoma (FL) is one of the most common B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The initiating genetic event found in approximately 90% of FL is the t(14;18), causing constitutive expression of the antiapoptotic BCL-2 protein. The exact secondary alterations leading to full FL development are still poorly defined. In this review, we address (i) the genetic pathways associated with tumorigenesis and progression of FL, (ii) the role of micro-environmental factors with emphasis on B-cell receptor ligands and (iii) lymphoma models in mice and what they teach us about lymphomagenesis in man.
Clinical, cytogenetic and molecular characteristics of 14 T-ALL patients carrying the TCRbeta-HOXA rearrangement: a study of the Groupe Francophone de Cytogntique Hmatologique.	Recently, we and others described a new chromosomal rearrangement, that is, inv(7)(p15q34) and t(7;7)(p15;q34) involving the T-cell receptor beta (TCRbeta) (7q34) and the HOXA gene locus (7p15) in 5% of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) patients leading to transcriptional activation of especially HOXA10. To further address the clinical, immunophenotypical and molecular genetic findings of this chromosomal aberration, we studied 330 additional T-ALLs. This revealed TCRbeta-HOXA rearrangements in five additional patients, which brings the total to 14 cases in 424 patients (3.3%). Real-time quantitative PCR analysis for HOXA10 gene expression was performed in 170 T-ALL patients and detected HOXA10 overexpression in 25.2% of cases including all the cases with a TCRbeta-HOXA rearrangement (8.2%). In contrast, expression of the short HOXA10 transcript, HOXA10b, was almost exclusively found in the TCRbeta-HOXA rearranged cases, suggesting a specific role for the HOXA10b short transcript in TCRbeta-HOXA-mediated oncogenesis. Other molecular and/or cytogenetic aberrations frequently found in subtypes of T-ALL (SIL-TAL1, CALM-AF10, HOX11, HOX11L2) were not detected in the TCRbeta-HOXA rearranged cases except for deletion 9p21 and NOTCH1 activating mutations, which were present in 64 and 67%, respectively. In conclusion, this study defines TCRbeta-HOXA rearranged T-ALLs as a distinct cytogenetic subgroup by clinical, immunophenotypical and molecular genetic characteristics.
The immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene 3' enhancers deregulate bcl-2 promoter usage in t(14;18) lymphoma cells.	In t(14;18) lymphomas, bcl-2 is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene (IgH), resulting in increased bcl-2 transcription and resistance to apoptosis. Regulatory elements of both the bcl-2 promoter and the IgH enhancers are believed to play a role in the increased expression of bcl-2 in t(14;18) lymphoma cells. In addition, transcription of the translocated bcl-2 allele is deregulated with activation of the normally minor bcl-2 P2 promoter. The mechanisms involved in the promoter shift from P1 to P2 are not known. We found that the murine IgH 3' enhancers increased bcl-2 P2 promoter activity in an episomal model of the translocation, and IgH enhancer region HS12 had the greatest effect. Quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that localized histone H3 hyperacetylation of the P2 promoter was observed on the translocated allele in t(14;18) DHL-4 cells and also on the stably transfected bcl-2 promoter-IgH enhancer episomal construct. Analysis of the HS12 enhancer region revealed that a previously identified nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) site and a previously uncharacterized downstream Cdx site, both of which are conserved in the human and murine IgH enhancers, were important for its enhancer activity and promoter activation. ChIP assays showed that C/EBPbeta bound to the HS12 Cdx site in vivo, and mutation of this site abrogated the binding of C/EBPbeta. Reduced expression of C/EBPbeta by transfection of small interfering RNA or interference with NF-kappaB activity decreased transcription from the bcl-2 promoters. These results demonstrate that the IgH 3' enhancers, particularly HS12, are important for the deregulation of bcl-2 promoter usage in t(14;18) lymphomas.
A FISH comparison of variant derivatives of the recurrent dic(17;20) of myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia: Obligatory retention of genes on 17p and 20q may explain the formation of dicentric chromosomes.	The dic(17;20) is a recurrent unbalanced translocation occurring rarely in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia. We have studied eleven cases with the dic(17;20) or a more complex derivative, all of which showed deletion of 17p and 20q material. The tumor suppressor gene TP53 was not always lost, supporting a more distal gene as the target of these 17p deletions. All derivatives could be interpreted as having initially been formed as a dicentric chromosome, those with a larger amount of material between the centromeres having undergone further rearrangement to stabilize the chromosome while retaining proximal 17p and proximal 20q material. We propose that critical sequences on both 17p and 20q proximal to the sites of deletion must be retained during the critical 17p and 20q deletions. This would explain the excess of dicentric chromosomes resulting from 17;20 translocation, and the apparent stabilization of the unstable derivatives by further rearrangements which preserve 17p and 20q material.
c-myc gene expression in a leukemic T-cell line bearing a t(8;14) (q24;q11) translocation.	We have examined the expression of the c-myc protooncogene in human T-cell leukemic KE-37R cells carrying a t(8;14) (q24;q11) translocation. The breakpoint on chromosome 8 is located at 2.2 kb downstream of c-myc exon 3 and the 3' part of the TcR-alpha gene (14q11) has been juxtaposed to c-myc. Our results showed that the steady-state levels of c-myc RNA transcripts were increased and the P1/P2 ratio of c-myc promoter utilization did not change, indicating that preferential utilization of P2 was maintained in the rearranged gene. High levels of electrophoretically normal p64 and 67 c-myc proteins were detected and both products kept their instability. In addition, transcription from promoter P0 was not detectable. Our results suggest that the activation of the gene is likely to result from its juxtaposition to the enhancer element of the TcR-alpha gene located downstream of the Ca region which stimulates constitutive synthesis of normal c-myc transcripts from the rearranged allele.
Recurrent homogeneously staining regions in 8p1 in breast cancer and lack of amplification of POLB, LHRH, and PLAT genes.	In a cytogenetic study of 125 primary and untreated breast cancers, 107 were selected for the quality of their metaphases permitting detection of amplifications:homogeneously staining regions (HSRs), abnormally banded region (ABRs), and double minutes (dmins). HSRs and ABRs were detected in 62 cases (58%), but no cases of dmins were observed. The localizations of HSRs and ABRs were not random because they were observed in the 8p1 position in 14 cases. The possible amplifications of five sequences, MOS (8q1), LHRH (8p21.1), POLB (8p11.2), PLAT (8p12), and D8Z2 (8c) were investigated in three tumors with HSR on the short arm of chromosome 8. Because these sequences were not amplified, two interpretations can be proposed: 1) there is a frequent amplification of a sequence from the 8p1 region, located between the investigated sequences; and 2) the amplifications do not occur in 8p1, but HSRs or ABRs of undetermined origin have a strong tendency to be translocated onto 8p. Because cases with HSR(8p) have less complex karyotypes than with HSRs in other locations, the first interpretation is the most likely: HSRs may be formed in 8p and further translocated on other chromosomes in the course of tumor progression.
Intranasal inoculation of mice with Yersinia pseudotuberculosis causes a lethal lung infection that is dependent on Yersinia outer proteins and PhoP.	Yersinia pseudotuberculosis infects many mammals and birds including humans, livestock, and wild rodents and can be recovered from the lungs of infected animals. To determine the Y. pseudotuberculosis factors important for growth during lung infection, we developed an intranasal model of infection in mice. Following intranasal inoculation, we monitored both bacterial growth in lungs and dissemination to systemic tissues. Intranasal inoculation with as few as 18 CFU of Y. pseudotuberculosis caused a lethal lung infection in some mice. Over the course of 7 days, wild-type Y. pseudotuberculosis replicated to nearly 1 x 10(8) CFU/g of lung in BALB/c mice, induced histopathology in lungs consistent with pneumonia, but disseminated sporadically to other tissues. In contrast, a Delta yopB deletion strain was attenuated in this model, indicating that translocation of Yersinia outer proteins (Yops) is essential for virulence. Additionally, a Delta yopH null mutant failed to grow to wild-type levels by 4 days postintranasal inoculation, but deletions of any other single effector YOP did not attenuate lung colonization 4 days postinfection. Strains with deletions in yopH and any one of the other known effector yop genes were more attenuated that the Delta yopH strain, indicating a unique role for yopH in lungs. In summary, we have characterized the progression of a lung infection with an enteric Yersinia pathogen and shown that YopB and YopH are important in lung colonization and dissemination. Furthermore, this lung infection model with Y. pseudotuberculosis can be used to test potential therapeutics against Yersinia and other gram-negative infections in lungs.
Osteoclast nuclei of myeloma patients show chromosome translocations specific for the myeloma cell clone: a new type of cancer-host partnership?	A major clinical manifestation of bone cancers is bone destruction. It is widely accepted that this destruction is not caused by the malignant cells themselves, but by osteoclasts, multinucleated cells of monocytic origin that are considered to be the only cells able to degrade bone. The present study demonstrates that bone-resorbing osteoclasts from myeloma patients contain nuclei with translocated chromosomes of myeloma B-cell clone origin, in addition to nuclei without these translocations, by using combined FISH and immunohistochemistry on bone sections. These nuclei of malignant origin are transcriptionally active and appear fully integrated amongst the other nuclei. The contribution of malignant nuclei to the osteoclast population analysed in this study was greater than 30%. Osteoclast-myeloma clone hybrids contained more nuclei than normal osteoclasts and their occurrence correlated with the proximity of myeloma cells. Similar hybrid cells were generated in myeloma cell-osteoclast co-cultures, as revealed by tracing myeloma nuclei using translocations, bromo-deoxyuridine, or the Y chromosome of male myeloma cells in female osteoclasts. These observations indicate that hybrid cells can originate through fusion between myeloma cells and osteoclasts. In conclusion, malignant cells contribute significantly to the formation of bone-resorbing osteoclasts in multiple myeloma. Osteoclast-myeloma clone hybrids reflect a previously unrecognized mechanism of bone destruction in which malignant cells participate directly. The possibility that malignant cells corrupt host cells by the transfer of malignant DNA may have been underestimated to date in cancer research.
Direct tRNA-protein interactions in ribosomal complexes.	Nucleotide residues in E. coli tRNA(Phe) interacting directly with proteins in pre- and posttranslocated ribosomal complexes have been identified by UV-induced cross-linking. In the tRNA(Phe) molecule located in the Ab-site (pretranslocated complex) residues A9, G18, A26 and U59 are cross-linked with proteins S10, L27, S7 and L2, respectively. In tRNA(Phe) located in the Pt-site (posttranslocated complex) residues C17, G44, C56 and U60 are cross-linked with proteins L2, L5, L27 and S9, respectively. The same cross-links (except for G44-L5) have been found for tRNA in the Pb-site of the pretranslocated ribosomal complex. None of the tRNA(Phe) residues cross-linked with proteins in the complexes examined by us are involved in the stabilization of the secondary structure, but residues A9, G18, A26, G44 and C56 participate in stabilization of tRNA tertiary structure. Since translocation of tRNA(Phe) from Ab- to P-site is accompanied by changes of tRNA contacts with proteins L2 and L27, we postulate that this translocation is coupled with tRNA turn around the axis joining the anticodon loop with the CCA-end of the molecule. This is in agreement with the idea about the presence of a kink in mRNA between codons located in the ribosomal A- and P-sites. In all E. coli tRNAs with known primary structure positions 18 and 56, interacting with L27 protein, when tRNA is located either in A- or P-site, are invariant, whereas positions 17 and 60, interacting with proteins only when tRNA is in the P-site, are strongly conserved. In positions 9, 26 and 59 purines are the preferred residues. In most E. coli tRNAs deviations from the consensus in these three positions is strongly correlated.
Molecular characterization of a t(9;12)(p21;q13) balanced chromosome translocation in combination with integrative genomics analysis identifies C9orf14 as a candidate tumor-suppressor.	A large number of nevi (LNN) is a high risk phenotypic trait for developing cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM). In this study, the breakpoints of a t(9;12)(p21;q13) balanced chromosome translocation were finely mapped in a family with LNN and CMM. Molecular characterization of the 9p21 breakpoint identified a novel gene C9orf14 expressed in melanocytes disrupted by the translocation. Integrative analysis of functional genomics data was applied to determine the role of C9orf14 in CMM development. An analysis of genome-wide DNA copy number alterations in melanoma tumors revealed the loss of the C9orf14 locus, located proximal to CDKN2A, in approximately one-fourth of tumors. Analysis of gene expression data in cancer cell lines and melanoma tumors suggests a loss of C9orf14 expression in melanoma tumorigenesis. Taken together, our results indicate that C9orf14 is a candidate tumor-suppressor for nevus development and late stage melanoma at 9p21, a region frequently deleted in different types of human cancers.
Identification of a gene (FMR-1) containing a CGG repeat coincident with a breakpoint cluster region exhibiting length variation in fragile X syndrome.	Fragile X syndrome is the most frequent form of inherited mental retardation and is associated with a fragile site at Xq27.3. We identified human YAC clones that span fragile X site-induced translocation breakpoints coincident with the fragile X site. A gene (FMR-1) was identified within a four cosmid contig of YAC DNA that expresses a 4.8 kb message in human brain. Within a 7.4 kb EcoRI genomic fragment, containing FMR-1 exonic sequences distal to a CpG island previously shown to be hypermethylated in fragile X patients, is a fragile X site-induced breakpoint cluster region that exhibits length variation in fragile X chromosomes. This fragment contains a lengthy CGG repeat that is 250 bp distal of the CpG island and maps within a FMR-1 exon. Localization of the brain-expressed FMR-1 gene to this EcoRI fragment suggests the involvement of this gene in the phenotypic expression of the fragile X syndrome.
Gastric cancers in young and elderly patients show different genomic profiles.	Although most gastric cancers occur in elderly patients, a substantial number of cases of this common disease occur in young patients. Gastric cancer is a heterogeneous disease at the genomic level and different patterns of DNA copy number alterations are associated with different clinical behaviour. The aim of the present study was to explore differences in DNA copy number alterations in relation to age of onset of gastric cancer. DNA isolated from 46 paraffin-embedded gastric cancer tissue samples from 17 patients less than 50 years of age [median 43 (21-49) years] and 29 patients greater than or equal to 70 years of age [median 75 (70-83) years] was analysed by genome-wide microarray comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) using an array of 5000 BAC clones. Patterns of DNA copy number aberrations were analysed by hierarchical cluster analysis of the mode-normalized and smoothed log(2) ratios of tumour to normal reference fluorescence signal intensities using TMEV software, after which cluster membership was correlated with age group. In addition, supervised analysis was performed using CGH Multi-array. Hierarchical cluster analysis of the array CGH data revealed three clusters with different genomic profiles that correlated significantly with age (p = 0.006). Cluster 1 mainly contained young patients, while elderly patients were divided over clusters 2 and 3. Chromosome regions 11q23.3 and 19p13.3 contributed most to age-related differences in tumour profiles. Gastric cancers of young and old patients belong to groups with different genomic profiles, which likely reflect different pathogenic mechanisms of the disease.
The (epi)genetics of human synovial sarcoma.	Human synovial sarcomas are aggressive soft tissue tumors with relatively high rates of recurrences and metastases. They display a variable response to common treatment protocols such as radiation and chemotherapy. For the development of novel diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic approaches, detailed information on the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of these tumors is of imperative importance. Fusion of the SS18 and (one of the) SSX genes is a molecular hallmark of human synovial sarcomas. The SS18 and SSX genes encode nuclear proteins that exhibit opposite transcription regulatory activities, likely through epigenetic mechanisms. The SS18 protein functions as a transcriptional coactivator and interacts directly with members of the epigenetic chromatin remodeling and modification machineries. In contrast, the SSX proteins function as transcriptional corepressors and are associated with several Polycomb group proteins. Since the domains involved in these apparently opposite transcription regulatory activities are retained in the SS18-SSX fusion proteins, we hypothesize that these fusion proteins function as "activator-repressors" of transcription. The implications of this model for human synovial sarcoma development and future treatment are discussed.
Aberrant NF-kappaB signaling in lymphoma: mechanisms, consequences, and therapeutic implications.	The transcription factor NF-kappaB is a tightly regulated positive mediator of T- and B-cell development, proliferation, and survival. The controlled activity of NF-kappaB is required for the coordination of physiologic immune responses. However, constitutive NF-kappaB activation can promote continuous lymphocyte proliferation and survival and has recently been recognized as a critical pathogenetic factor in lymphoma. Various molecular events lead to deregulation of NF-kappaB signaling in Hodgkin disease and a variety of T- and B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas either up-stream or downstream of the central IkappaB kinase. These alterations are prerequisites for lymphoma cell cycling and blockage of apoptosis. This review provides an overview of the NF-kappaB pathway and discusses the mechanisms of NF-kappaB deregulation in distinct lymphoma entities with defined aberrant pathways: Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), and adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia (ATL). In addition, we summarize recent data that validates the NF-kappaB signaling pathway as an attractive therapeutic target in T- and B-cell malignancies.
CD10-MUM1+ follicular lymphoma lacks BCL2 gene translocation and shows characteristic biologic and clinical features.	CD10 and MUM1 are representative B cell differentiation markers. Follicular lymphoma (FL) is usually positive for CD10 and negative for MUM1. In this study, however, we compared 22 FLs with peculiar phenotype CD10-MUM1+ with 119 typical CD10+MUM1- FLs. All CD10-MUM1+ FL patients exhibited follicular structure with follicular dendritic meshwork, and a high rate of somatic hypermutation and ongoing mutation, similar to typical FL. However, CD10-MUM1+ FLs were encountered frequently in the elderly compared with CD10+MUM1- typical FLs (67.0 versus 58.7 years, P < .01), showed high grade (grade 3A or 3B) morphology (91% versus 17%, P < .001), diffuse proliferation (59% vs 19%, P < .001), and lacked BCL2/IGH translocation (5% versus 92.5%, P < .001), which is the most characteristic aberration in FL, and 88% showed BCL6 gene abnormalities (translocation or amplification). Our results indicate that CD10-MUM1+ FL is different from typical FL with respect to biologic and clinical features.
Candidate loci for Zimmermann-Laband syndrome at 3p14.3.	A male with 46,XY,t(3;17)(p14.3;q24.3) presented with gingival hyperplasia, hypertrichosis, unusually large ears and marked hypertrophy of the nose, characteristic of the Zimmermann-Laband syndrome (ZLS). Other features include large facial bones and mandibles, large protruding upper lip, enlarged fingers and toes, strabismus, and enlarged phallus. Knowledge of a 46,XX,t(3;8)(p21.2;q24.3) reported previously in a mother and daughter with ZLS suggests that the 3p14.3-p21.2 region may contain a gene responsible for ZLS. We have reassessed the chromosome 3 breakpoint region of the t(3;8) and revised its breakpoint location to 3p14.3, based upon an updated human genome sequence assembly. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with BAC clones, we have also identified a breakpoint spanning clone at 3p14.3 in our t(3;17) patient, thereby narrowing the breakpoint to a region of approximately 200 kb. These data suggest that the gene responsible for ZLS is located in 3p14.3 and implicates four likely candidate genes in this region: CACNA2D3, encoding a voltage-dependent calcium channel, LRTM1, a gene of unknown function embedded within CACNA2D3, WNT5A, encoding a secreted signaling protein of the WNT family, and ERC2, which codes for a synapse protein.
Chromosome abnormalities in advanced stage lymphoblastic lymphoma of children and adolescents: a report from CCG-E08.	Among pediatric non-Hodgkin lymphomas, one of the most frequent types is lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL). Specific chromosome abnormalities are associated with prognosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia, but have not been evaluated for prognostic value in pediatric LBL. For the Children's Cancer Group protocol CCG-E-08 Etiologic Study of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Childhood, 13 patients were enrolled with cytogenetic analysis of LBL and on treatment protocol CCG-502. Pathology material and karyotypes at initial diagnosis were given central review. The patients were aged 6-13 years (median 9 years), with a male-to-female ratio of 12:1. All patients had advanced disease. Disease relapsed in six patients (event-free survival 54% +/- 14%, median 10.8 years). Chromosome abnormalities were identified in 11 (85%), and translocations at 14q11.2 likely involving the T-cell receptor alpha/delta locus (TCR A/D) occurred in 4 (31%). For patients with relapse, four had translocations t(1;14)(p32;q11.2), t(8;14)(q24.1;q11.2), t(11;14)(p13;q11.2), or t(9;17)(q34;q23), involving breakpoints in the regions of TAL1, MYC, LMO2, and NOTCH1, respectively. Pediatric advanced LBLs have a high frequency of chromosome abnormalities; in this limited study, these often involved translocations at 14q11.2, the site of TCR A/D. Translocations possibly involving TAL1, MYC, LMO2, or NOTCH1 may have contributed to poor outcome. Further studies are warranted in larger cohorts of children and adolescents with LBL to evaluate the prognostic significance.
Detection and molecular cytogenetic characterization of a novel ring chromosome in a histological variant of Ewing sarcoma.	Ewing sarcoma/peripheral primitive neuro-ectodermal tumor (PNET) is a round-cell sarcoma that may show varying degrees of neuro-ectodermal differentiation. These tumors are identified by a characteristic round-cell morphology and immunohistochemical profile, as well as by specific translocations involving the EWS gene on chromosome 22 and the 3' portion of the E26 transformation-specific family of transcription factors. These translocations result in fusion proteins that act as aberrant transcription factors. The majority of Ewing sarcoma cases are characterized by a balanced t(11;22). Specific chromosomal abnormalities often correlate with distinct morphologic or phenotypic subtypes of tumors and play an important role in prognosis. Here we describe the molecular cytogenetic investigation of a case of Ewing sarcoma in the proximal humerus of a 39-year-old male using COBRA (combined binary ratio labelling) fluorescent in situ hybridization karyotyping, array comparative genomic hybridization, and EWS-gene specific fluorescence in situ hybridization. Multiple chromosomal aberrations were identified, including a der(22)r(20;22), resulting in an amplification of the proximal region of the EWS gene. This is the first time that both translocation and amplification involving the EWS gene and an unidentified gene are described. This case adds to the spectrum of both morphology and genetic rearrangements in Ewing sarcoma, and shows the importance of combined molecular cytogenetic approaches in identifying uncommon rearrangements in sarcomas.
Evaluation of genetic stability of the SYT gene rearrangement by break-apart FISH in primary and xenotransplanted synovial sarcomas.	Synovial sarcomas (SS) are infrequent and morphologically heterogeneous soft tissue sarcomas. The t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2), which results in fusion of the SYT gene at 18q11 with the SSX1, SSX2, or (rarely) SSX4 gene is a primary genetic event in 90% of SS. To determine whether the t(X;18) present in the original tumor is maintained in its passages, a dual-color break-apart FISH assay for SYT gene disruption was performed in two tissue microarrays (TMA) comprising eight molecularly confirmed primary SSs and their xenografts, which were followed for several generations. A simplified scoring system was applied to the FISH results of the primary and xenotransplanted SS to classify the FISH data into distinct groups. SYT disruption was identified in all eight primary SS and in all their passages without any significant differences among them, despite wide variations in xenotransplantation time between the primary tumors and their xenografts. The TMA-based FISH assay demonstrated genetic stability related to SYT gene rearrangement in primary and xenografted SS.
Truncation of NHEJ1 in a patient with polymicrogyria.	Polymicrogyria (PMG) is a common malformation of the human cerebral cortex for which both acquired and genetic causes are known. Although genetic heterogeneity is documented, only one gene is currently known to cause isolated PMG. To clone new genes involved in this type of cerebral malformation, we studied a fetus presenting a defect of cortical organization consisting of a polymicrogyric cortex and neuronal heterotopia within the white matter. Karyotype analysis revealed that the fetus was carrier of a balanced, de novo, chromosomal translocation t(2;7)(q35;p22). Cloning and sequencing of the two translocation breakpoints reveals that the chromosomal rearrangement disrupts the coding region of a single gene, called NHEJ1, Cernunnos, or XLF, in 2q35. The NHEJ1 gene was recently identified as being responsible for autosomal recessive immunodeficiency with microcephaly. Using quantitative PCR experiments, we show that a truncated transcript is expressed in the polymicrogyric patient cells, suggesting a potential dominant negative effect possibly leading to a different phenotype. We performed in situ hybridization on human embryos and showed that the NHEJ1 transcript is preferentially expressed in the telencephalic ventricular and subventricular zones, consistent with the phenotype of the affected individual. In the human adult central nervous system (CNS), NHEJ1 is mainly expressed in the cerebral cortex and in the cerebellum. The association of PMG with the disruption of its transcript suggests that, in addition to its recently uncovered function in the immune system, the NHEJ1 protein may also play a role during development of the human cerebral cortex.
A leukemia fusion protein attenuates the spindle checkpoint and promotes aneuploidy.	The 8;21 chromosomal translocation occurs in 15% to 40% of patients with the FAB M2 subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This chromosomal abnormality fuses part of the AML1/RUNX1 gene to the ETO/MTG8 gene and generates the AML1-ETO protein. We previously identified a C-terminal truncated AML1-ETO protein (AEtr) in a mouse leukemia model. AEtr is almost identical to the AML1-ETO exon 9a isoform expressed in leukemia patients. Here, we describe a novel function of AEtr in the development of aneuploidy through spindle checkpoint attenuation. AEtr cells had a reduced mitotic index following nocodazole treatment, suggesting a failure in a subset of cells to arrest in mitosis with a functional spindle checkpoint. Additionally, primary leukemia cells and cell lines expressing AEtr were aneuploid. Moreover, AEtr cells had reduced levels of several spindle checkpoint proteins including BubR1 and securin following treatment with the spindle poison nocodazole. These results suggest that inactivation of the spindle checkpoint may contribute to the development of aneuploidy described in t(8;21) leukemia patients.
Molecular analysis of the JAZF1-JJAZ1 gene fusion by RT-PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization in endometrial stromal neoplasms.	Nonrandom cytogenetic abnormalities of chromosomes 6, 7, and 17 have been reported within low-grade endometrial stromal sarcomas (LGESSs), and among these abnormalities, the t(7;17)(p15;q21) is the most common aberration described. Previously we had shown that this translocation joins 2 genes, JAZF1 and JJAZ1, located on chromosomes 7 and 17, respectively. To determine the frequency of the t(7;17), we analyzed 4 stromal nodules and 24 LGESS by both reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). In addition, we examined 4 cases of highly cellular leiomyoma, a benign morphologic mimic of LGESS. Overall, evidence for the JAZF1-JJAZ1 fusion was found in 60% of endometrial stromal neoplasms analyzed (8/16 ESS and 4/4 stromal nodules). One LGESS demonstrated only rearrangement of 7p15 by FISH analysis and karyotypic analysis of this case showed t(6;7)(p21;p15). The fusion was not detected in any highly cellular leiomyomas. Our data suggest that the JAZF1-JJAZ1 fusion is a frequent, although nonuniform, feature of endometrial stromal neoplasia, irrespective of benign versus malignant classification and smooth muscle differentiation. In addition, the detection of the fusion by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction or FISH for JJAZ1 at 7p15 may be diagnostically useful.
MALT1, BCL10 and FOXP1 in salivary gland mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas.	In view of the certain anatomic site-dependent frequency of chromosomal translocations involved in extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT lymphoma) pathogenesis, 17 salivary gland MALT lymphoma cases were analyzed for MALT1 and FOXP1 translocations. B cell CLL/lymphoma 10 (BCL10) and forkhead box PA (FOXP1) protein expression were studied by immunohistochemistry and translocations identified using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)-specific probes FOXP1, t(11;18)(q21;q21)/API2-MALT1 and t(14;18)(q32;q21)/IgH-MALT1. None of the 11 analyzed cases showed FOXP1 rearrangement or amplification. The t(11;18) was present in five of 13 cases and the t(14;18) in three of 13 cases. MALT1 translocations were mostly mutually exclusive except in a single case. FOXP1 protein expression showed differences in the proportion of tumor cells with nuclear expression but not in their intensity, with the exception of one case where very intense nuclear staining was noted. BCL10 nuclear expression was present in four of 17 cases, two of which lacked t(11;18). Our results suggest that MALT1-specific translocations and FOXP1 rearrangements are not commonly involved in pathogenesis. A case with strong FOXP1 protein expression indicates the possibility that the upregulation of FOXP1 expression is significant in a small subset of salivary gland MALT lymphomas. Also a single case in which both MALT1 translocations were present indicates that these are not always mutually exclusive.
How and why genetic linkage has not solved the problem of psychosis: review and hypothesis.	The author examined the chromosomal linkage method as an approach to the genetic basis of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
t(8;21) breakpoints on chromosome 21 in acute myeloid leukemia are clustered within a limited region of a single gene, AML1.	The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is a non-random chromosomal abnormality frequently found in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with maturation (M2 subtype). We report here the cloning of a gene, named AML1, on chromosome 21 that was found to be rearranged in the leukemic cell DNAs from t(8;21) AML patients. The breakpoints in 16 out of 21 patients were clustered within a limited region of AML1, and detailed analysis in 3 patients revealed that the breakpoints occurred in the same intron of the gene. Sequencing of cDNA clones identified a long open reading frame encoding a 250-amino acid protein. Northern blot analysis detected four constant mRNA species in t(8;21) leukemic and normal cells; the largest species was more abundant in the leukemic cells than in normal cells. In addition, two mRNA species limited to the leukemic cells were found. These findings indicate that the AML1 gene may be involved in neoplastic transformation of AML with the t(8;21) translocation.
Identification of a gene, MLL, that spans the breakpoint in 11q23 translocations associated with human leukemias.	Recurring chromosomal translocations involving chromosome 11, band q23, have been observed in acute lymphoid leukemias and especially in acute myeloid leukemias. We recently showed that breakpoints in four 11q23 translocations, t(4;11)(q21;q23), t(6;11)(q27;q23), t(9;11)(p22;q23), and t(11;19)(q23;p13.3), were contained within a yeast artificial chromosome clone bearing the CD3D and CD3G gene loci. We have identified within the CD3 yeast artificial chromosome a transcription unit that spans the breakpoint junctions of the 4;11, 9;11, and 11;19 translocations, and we describe two other, related transcripts that are upregulated in the RS4;11 cell line. We have named this gene MLL (myeloid/lymphoid, or mixed-lineage, leukemia.
Characterization of a zinc finger gene disrupted by the t(15;17) in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	The translocation t(15;17) associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia results in the fusion of the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA) gene to the PML gene. Characterization of PML revealed that it is a putative zinc finger protein and potential transcription factor that is commonly expressed, with at least three major transcription products. PML breakpoints cluster in two regions on either side of an alternatively spliced exon. Although leukemic cells with translocations characteristically express only one fusion product, both PML/RARA (on the 15q+ derivative chromosome) and RARA/PML (on the 17q- derivative) are transcribed.
A 6Mb deletion in band 2q22 due to a complex chromosome rearrangement associated with severe psychomotor retardation, microcephaly and distinctive dysmorphic facial features.	High-resolution analyses of complex chromosome rearrangements (CCR) have demonstrated in individuals with abnormal phenotypes that not all seemingly balanced CCRs based on G-banding are completely balanced at breakpoint level. Here we report on an apparently balanced de novo CCR involving chromosomes 2, 3 and 5 present in a 6-month-old girl. She was referred for genetic evaluation because of severe psychomotor retardation, distinctive dysmorphic features and microcephaly. A 1Mb resolution array-CGH analysis of DNA from the patient revealed a deletion of about 6Mb for chromosome 2. FISH analysis showed that the deletion interval found in band 2q22 mapped at the translocation breakpoint, and that the ZFHX1B gene, which is known to be involved in the Mowat-Wilson syndrome, is located within the deletion interval. To our knowledge this is the first case of a complex chromosomal rearrangement associated with Mowat-Wilson syndrome. Our data illustrate the important role for high-resolution investigation of apparently balanced chromosome rearrangements in patients with unexplained psychomotor retardation and/or other clinical features, and should contribute to our understanding of the mechanisms involved in chromosome rearrangement.
Prenatal diagnosis of a fetus with partial trisomy 7p.	We report a prenatal diagnosis of a fetus with partial trisomy 7p. Ultrasonography at 28 weeks of gestation of a 27-year-old multigravid woman revealed a growth-retarded fetus with agenesis of the corpus callosum, enlarged left kidney, single umbilical artery, hypertelorism, depressed nasal bridge, frontal bossing, irregular maxiller alveolar composition, club feet, flexion deformity of the upper extremities and Epstein anomaly. Fetal karyotype was 46,XX,der(9)add(9p24),16qh+. Our results indicated that the fetus had an unbalanced translocation, which resulted in duplication of the proximal segment of 7p. Maternal karyotype was (46,XX,t(7,9)(p15.3,p24),16qh+). Because fetal death occurred at 31 weeks of gestation, induction of labor was performed. An enlarged anterior fontanel and micrognathia were seen during fetal autopsy. Trisomy 7p is related to a well-known clinical picture with a dismal prognosis. Our report showed that the outcome of the affected pregnancy may also be poor. Detection of fetal chromosomal abnormality and parental translocations are essential for counseling of the parents.
Inverted DNA repeats channel repair of distant double-strand breaks into chromatid fusions and chromosomal rearrangements.	Inverted DNA repeats are known to cause genomic instabilities. Here we demonstrate that double-strand DNA breaks (DSBs) introduced a large distance from inverted repeats in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) chromosome lead to a burst of genomic instability. Inverted repeats located as far as 21 kb from each other caused chromosome rearrangements in response to a single DSB. We demonstrate that the DSB initiates a pairing interaction between inverted repeats, resulting in the formation of large dicentric inverted dimers. Furthermore, we observed that propagation of cells containing inverted dimers led to gross chromosomal rearrangements, including translocations, truncations, and amplifications. Finally, our data suggest that break-induced replication is responsible for the formation of translocations resulting from anaphase breakage of inverted dimers. We propose a model explaining the formation of inverted dicentric dimers by intermolecular single-strand annealing (SSA) between inverted DNA repeats. According to this model, anaphase breakage of inverted dicentric dimers leads to gross chromosomal rearrangements (GCR). This "SSA-GCR" pathway is likely to be important in the repair of isochromatid breaks resulting from collapsed replication forks, certain types of radiation, or telomere aberrations that mimic isochromatid breaks.
Clinical and molecular cytogenetic characteristics of dic(9;20) in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a case report of three patients.	Dicentric (9;20) [dic(9;20)] is a rare recurring chromosome abnormality in leukemia patients. In this study, we report three adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with dic(9;20) anomaly. All three patients were diagnosed as cluster of differentiation 10 (CD10) positive B cell ALL, achieved complete remission after induction chemotherapy, and died of leukemia relapse within 1 year after diagnosis. Specimens for chromosome analysis were prepared by direct method and/or short-time culture of bone marrow cells. Karyotyping was performed by R-banding technique. Dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was performed using chromosome 9 and chromosome 20-specific centromeric probes. Karyotype analysis showed that all three patients had dic(9;20)(p11-13;q11), in which the dicentric nature of the derived chromosome was confirmed by interphase FISH. Dicentric (9;20)(p11-13;q11) may be specifically associated with ALL, and monosomy 20 may be a pointer to dic(9;20) in ALL. The prognostic significance of dic(9;20) in adult patients with ALL remains to be determined.
A redundant oncogenic potential of the retinoic receptor (RAR) alpha, beta and gamma isoforms in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	Alterations of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR)alpha locus are found in 100% of acute promyelocytic leukemia patients, where chromosomal translocations generate the promyelocytic leukemia (PML)-RARalpha chimeric protein. Here, we have investigated the biological properties of the other RAR isoforms (RARbeta and RARgamma), through the generation and characterization of artificial PML-RAR'x' fusion proteins. Surprisingly, we found that all of the RAR isoforms share an identical oncogenic potential in vitro, thus implying that the selection of the RARalpha locus in leukemia patients must occur--rather than through functional differences among the various RAR isoforms-as the consequence of the nuclear architecture of the different RAR loci.
Immunobiological diversity in infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia is related to the occurrence and type of MLL gene rearrangement.	The aim of this study was to identify immunobiological subgroups in 133 infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cases as assessed by their immunophenotype, immunoglobulin (Ig) and T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement pattern, and the presence of mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) rearrangements. About 70% of cases showed the pro-B-ALL immunophenotype, whereas the remaining cases were common ALL and pre-B-ALL. MLL translocations were found in 79% of infants, involving MLL-AF4 (41%), MLL-ENL (18%), MLL-AF9 (11%) or another MLL partner gene (10%). Detailed analysis of Ig/TCR rearrangement patterns revealed IGH, IGK and IGL rearrangements in 91, 21 and 13% of infants, respectively. Cross-lineage TCRD, TCRG and TCRB rearrangements were found in 46, 17 and 10% of cases, respectively. As compared to childhood precursor-B-ALL, Ig/TCR rearrangements in infant ALL were less frequent and more oligoclonal. MLL-AF4 and MLL-ENL-positive infants demonstrated immature rearrangements, whereas in MLL-AF9-positive leukemias more mature rearrangements predominated. The immature Ig/TCR pattern in infant ALL correlated with young age at diagnosis, CD10 negativity and predominantly with the presence and the type of MLL translocation. The high frequency of immature and oligoclonal Ig/TCR rearrangements is probably caused by early (prenatal) oncogenic transformation in immature B-lineage progenitor cells with germline Ig/TCR genes combined with a short latency period.
The p21Waf1 pathway is involved in blocking leukemogenesis by the t(8;21) fusion protein AML1-ETO.	The 8;21 translocation is a major contributor to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) of the M2 classification occurring in approximately 40% of these cases. Multiple mouse models using this fusion protein demonstrate that AML1-ETO requires secondary mutagenic events to promote leukemogenesis. Here, we show that the negative cell cycle regulator p21(WAF1) gene is up-regulated by AML1-ETO at the protein, RNA, and promoter levels. Retroviral transduction and hematopoietic cell transplantation experiments with p21(WAF1)-deficient cells show that AML1-ETO is able to promote leukemogenesis in the absence of p21(WAF1). Thus, loss of p21(WAF1) facilitates AML1-ETO-induced leukemogenesis, suggesting that mutagenic events in the p21(WAF1) pathway to bypass the growth inhibitory effect from AML1-ETO-induced p21(WAF1) expression can be a significant factor in AML1-ETO-associated acute myeloid leukemia.
Activation of the c-myc p1 promoter in Burkitt's lymphoma by the hs3 immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene enhancer.	The expression of c-myc is deregulated in Burkitt's lymphoma by the translocation t(8;14). Most of the increased c-myc expression is from the P1 promoter, which is normally a minor promoter. How the P1 promoter is activated by the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene enhancers is not understood. We identified a YY1 site in the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene HS3 enhancer, which increased c-myc P1 promoter activity, and a MARE site, which decreased c-myc P1 activity. Small Maf proteins bound to the MARE site both in vitro and in vivo, recruited histone deacetylase 2, and resulted in deacetylation of histones H3 and H4 at the c-myc promoter region. In contrast, YY1 recruited CBP and increased histone acetylation at the c-myc promoter. Rb interacts with YY1 to prevent DNA binding in normal B cells, but no significant interaction with YY1 was detected in Burkitt's cells, and binding of YY1 to the HS3 enhancer was observed by chromatin immunoprecipitaton. Increased expression of MafK and/or decreased expression of YY1 by silencing RNA downregulated endogenous c-myc mRNA levels and increased the sensitivity of the cells to doxorubicin. Mutation of the major active sites (nuclear factor-kappa B and YY1) in the enhancers prevented c-myc activation.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with t(4;11) in children 1 year and older: The 'big sister' of the infant disease?	The t(4;11)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a rare disease in children above the age of 1 year. We studied the clinical and biological characteristics in 32 consecutively diagnosed childhood cases (median age 10.0 years, range 1.0-17.1 years). Immunophenotyping revealed a pro-B and a pre-B stage in 24 and eight cases, respectively. IGH genes were rearranged in 84% of leukemias with a predominance of incomplete DJ(H) joints. Whereas IGK-Kde and TCRD rearrangements were rare, TCRG rearrangements were present in 50% of cases and involved mainly Vgamma11 or Vgamma9 together with a Jgamma1.3./2.3 gene segment, an unusual combination among t(4;11)-negative B-cell precursor ALL. Oligoclonality was found in about 30% as assessed by heterogeneous IGH and TCRG rearrangements. Our data are in line with transformation of a precursor cell at an early stage of B-cell development but retaining the potential to differentiate to the pre-B cell stage in vivo. Although a distinct difference between infant and older childhood cases with t(4;11) became evident, no age-related biological features were found within the childhood age group. In contrast to infants with t(4;11)-positive ALL, childhood cases had a relatively low cumulative incidence of relapse of 25% at 3.5 years with BFM-based high-risk protocols.
Rare CBFB-MYH11 fusion transcripts in AML with inv(16)/t(16;16) are associated with therapy-related AML M4eo, atypical cytomorphology, atypical immunophenotype, atypical additional chromosomal rearrangements and low white blood cell count: a study on 162 patients.	The spectrum of CBFB-MYH11 fusion transcripts in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) M4eo with inv(16)/t(16;16) is heterogeneous. Approximately 85% show type A CBFB-MYH11 fusion transcripts. In addition, more than 10 different fusion transcripts have been reported. The prognostic impact and biological background of rare fusion transcripts remain open. In this study, a molecular characterization of CBFB-MYH11 transcripts in 162 patients with CBFB-MYH11 positive AML at diagnosis was performed. In total, 128 patients (79.0%) showed the fusion transcript type A, whereas nine different rare CBFB-MYH11 fusion genes were detected in 34 cases (21.0%). Rare fusion transcripts were found more frequently in therapy-related AML (P=0.0106). Numerical gains of the chromosomes 8, 21 and 22 were more frequently associated with type A (28.3%) than with rare fusions (12.9%) (P=0.012). Median white blood cell (WBC) count was higher in type A (35.4 G/l; range=1.1-279 G/l) than in cases with rare types (7.8 G/l; range=0.8-148.0 G/l) (P<0.0001). Rare fusion transcripts were correlated with an atypical cytomorphology not primarily suggestive for the FAB subtype M4eo (P=0.0203). Immunophenotype revealed lower CD2, CD13, CD33 and CD90 levels than in type A fusion cases (P=0.036, 0.002, 0.029 and 0.045, respectively). However, the type of fusion was not an independent prognostic parameter.
Analysis of genetic events that modulate the oncogenic and growth suppressive activities of the PAX3-FKHR fusion oncoprotein.	Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS) is associated with chromosomal translocations that generate PAX3-FKHR and PAX7-FKHR fusion oncoproteins. Based on studies demonstrating that high PAX3-FKHR expression causes growth suppression, the hypothesis is proposed that, during ARMS tumorigenesis, the translocations cause low oncoprotein expression and are followed by collaborating events that block growth suppression pathways and permit upregulation of oncoprotein expression. To investigate oncogenic function at low expression levels, PAX3-FKHR was introduced into NIH3T3 cells in the pBabe retroviral vector. Compared to high expression systems, PAX3-FKHR expression from pBabe was lower and did not suppress growth, but showed transforming activity in the soft agar assay. As a possible collaborating event, PAX3-FKHR paired box mutations were previously shown in high expression systems to reverse growth suppressive effects. In the low expression system, the paired box mutation enhanced transformation in soft agar and focus formation assays. Although these mutations are candidate collaborating events, sequencing of paired box regions in ARMS tumors did not identify mutations. Finally, genes from known genetic alterations in ARMS were introduced, alone or combined, into NIH3T3 cells with high PAX3-FKHR expression and did not rescue growth suppression. In summary, these studies provide a model for an event in ARMS tumorigenesis that enhances PAX3-FKHR oncogenicity and abrogates growth suppression, but do not demonstrate a known event occurring in ARMS tumors that fulfills these criteria.
Molecular markers for prostate cancer.	Serum PSA testing has been used for over 20 years as an aid in the diagnosis and management of prostate cancer. Although highly sensitive, it suffers from a lack of specificity, showing elevated serum levels in a variety of other conditions including prostatitis, benign prostate hyperplasia, and non-cancerous neoplasia. During this period, numerous serum protein analytes have been investigated as alternative and/or supplemental tests for PSA, however in general these analytes have likewise suffered from a lack of specificity, often showing serum elevations in other clinical presentations. More recently, molecular assays targeting prostate disease at the DNA or RNA level have been investigated for potential diagnostic and prognostic utility. With the aid of modern genomics technologies, a variety of molecular biomarkers have been discovered that show potential for specific correlation with prostate cancer. Much of this discovery has been retrospective, using microdissected tissue from prostatectomy. The goal of current research is to apply genomic assays to noninvasive specimens such as blood and urine. Progress in this area is the subject of this review.
The structure-specific nicking of small heteroduplexes by the RAG complex: implications for lymphoid chromosomal translocations.	During V(D)J recombination, the RAG complex binds at recombination signal sequences and creates double-strand breaks. In addition to this sequence-specific recognition of the RSS, the RAG complex has been shown to be a structure-specific nuclease, cleaving 3' overhangs and 3' flaps, and, more recently, 10 nucleotides (nt) bubble (heteroduplex) structures. Here, we assess the smallest size heteroduplex that core and full-length RAGs can cleave. We also test whether bubbles adjacent to a partial RSS are nicked any differently or any more efficiently than bubbles that are surrounded by random sequence. These points are important in considering what types and what size of non-B DNA structure that the RAG complex can nick, and this helps assess the role of the RAG complex in mediating lymphoid chromosomal translocations. We find that the smallest bubble nicked by the RAG complex is 3nt, and proximity to a partial or full RSS sequence does not affect the nicking by RAGs. RAG nicking efficiency increases with the size of the heteroduplex and is only about two-fold less efficient than an RSS when the bubble is 6nt. We consider these findings in the context of RAG nicking at non-B DNA structures in lymphoid chromosomal translocations.
Unbalanced translocation der(1;7)(q10;p10) defines a unique clinicopathological subgroup of myeloid neoplasms.	The unbalanced translocation, der(1;7)(q10;p10), is one of the characteristic cytogenetic abnormalities found in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and other myeloid neoplasms. Although described frequently with very poor clinical outcome and possible relationship with monosomy 7 or 7q- (-7/7q-), this recurrent cytogenetic abnormality has not been explored fully. Here we analyzed retrospectively 77 cases with der(1;7)(q10;p10) in terms of their clinical and cytogenetic features, comparing with other 46 adult -7/7q- cases without der(1;7)(q10;p10). In contrast with other -7/7q- cases, where the abnormality tends to be found in one or more partial karyotypes, der(1;7)(q10;p10) represents the abnormality common to all the abnormal clones and usually appears as a sole chromosomal abnormality during the entire clinical courses, or if not, is accompanied only by a limited number and variety of additional abnormalities, mostly trisomy 8 and/or loss of 20q. der(1;7)(q10;p10)-positive MDS cases showed lower blast counts (P<0.0001) and higher hemoglobin concentrations (P<0.0075) at diagnosis and slower progression to acute myeloid leukemia (P=0.0043) than other -7/7q- cases. der(1;7)(q10;p10) cases showed significantly better clinical outcome than other -7/7q cases (P<0.0001). In conclusion, der(1;7)(q10;p10) defines a discrete entity among myeloid neoplasms, showing unique clinical and cytogenetic characteristics.
Cyclin D1 and t(11;14)-positive B-cell neoplasms resembling marginal zone B-cell lymphoma: a morphological variant of mantle cell lymphoma.	We describe 3 unusual B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas in which the entire tumors histologically mimicked marginal zone B-cell lymphoma. All patients were male (mean age, 65 years). Excisional biopsy from lymph node (2 of 3) and parotid gland (1 of 3) showed proliferation of monocytoid B-cells with plasmacytoid features (2 of 3) and conspicuous absence of large lymphoma cells (3 of 3). By immunohistochemistry, cyclin D1 was positive (3 of 3), CD23 was negative (3 of 3), and aberrant expression of CD5/CD43 was present in 1 case. Ki67 labeling was greater than 50% in 1 case and 10% to 25% in the other 2 cases. Evidence of the t(11;14) was detectable in all by molecular techniques. One patient died within 15 months, and the other 2 patients had widely disseminated diseases at the last follow-up (8 months). Based on these features, we believed that the best classification for these lesions is the marginal zone B-cell lymphoma-like mantle cell lymphoma.
Evolutionarily conserved, cell type and species-specific higher order chromatin arrangements in interphase nuclei of primates.	Several studies demonstrated a gene-density-correlated radial organization of chromosome territories (CTs) in spherically shaped nuclei of human lymphocytes or lymphoblastoid cells, while CT arrangements in flat-ellipsoidal nuclei of human fibroblasts are affected by both gene density and chromosome size. In the present study, we performed fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) experiments to three-dimensionally preserved nuclei (3D-FISH) from human and nonhuman primate cultured lymphoblastoid cells and fibroblasts. We investigated apes, Old, and New World monkeys showing either evolutionarily conserved karyotypes, multiple translocations, fusions, or serial fissions. Our goal was to test whether cell type specific differences of higher order chromatin arrangements are evolutionarily conserved in different primate lineages. Whole genome painting experiments and further detailed analyses of individual chromosomes indicate a gene-density-correlated higher order organization of chromatin in lymphoblastoid cell nuclei of all studied primate species, despite evolutionary chromosome reshuffling. In contrast, in primate fibroblast nuclei evolutionary translocations, fissions and fusions resulted in positional shifts of orthologous chromosome segments, thus arguing against a functional role of chromosome size-dependent spatial chromatin arrangements and for geometrical constraints in flat-ellipsoidal fibroblast nuclei. Notably, in both cell types, regions of rearranged chromosomes with distinct differences in gene density showed polarized arrangements with the more gene-dense segment oriented towards the nuclear interior. Our results indicate that nonrandom breakage and rejoining of preferentially gene-dense chromosomes or chromosome segments may have occurred during evolution.
Disrupting the pairing between let-7 and Hmga2 enhances oncogenic transformation.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22-nucleotide RNAs that can pair to sites within messenger RNAs to specify posttranscriptional repression of these messages. Aberrant miRNA expression can contribute to tumorigenesis, but which of the many miRNA-target relationships are relevant to this process has been unclear. Here, we report that chromosomal translocations previously associated with human tumors disrupt repression of High Mobility Group A2 (Hmga2) by let-7 miRNA. This disrupted repression promotes anchorage-independent growth, a characteristic of oncogenic transformation. Thus, losing miRNA-directed repression of an oncogene provides a mechanism for tumorigenesis, and disrupting a single miRNA-target interaction can produce an observable phenotype in mammalian cells.
De novo t(12;17)(p13.3;q21.3) translocation with a breakpoint near the 5' end of the HOXB gene cluster in a patient with developmental delay and skeletal malformations.	A boy with severe mental retardation, funnel chest, bell-shaped thorax, and hexadactyly of both feet was found to have a balanced de novo t(12;17)(p13.3;q21.3) translocation. FISH with BAC clones and long-range PCR products assessed in the human genome sequence localized the breakpoint on chromosome 17q21.3 to a 21-kb segment that lies <30 kb upstream of the HOXB gene cluster and immediately adjacent to the 3' end of the TTLL6 gene. The breakpoint on chromosome 12 occurred within telomeric hexamer repeats and, therefore, is not likely to affect gene function directly. We propose that juxtaposition of the HOXB cluster to a repetitive DNA domain and/or separation from required cis-regulatory elements gave rise to a position effect.
The double bromodomain-containing chromatin adaptor Brd4 and transcriptional regulation.	Brd4 is a double bromodomain-containing protein that binds preferentially to acetylated chromatin. It belongs to the BET (bromodomains and extraterminal) family that includes mammalian Brd2, Brd3, Brd4, Brdt, Drosophila Fsh, yeast Bdf1, Bdf2, and corresponding homologues in other species. Brd4 is essential for cellular growth and has been implicated in cell cycle control, DNA replication, and gene rearrangement found in t(15;19)-associated carcinomas. Recently, Brd4 has been found in several transcription complexes, including the general cofactor Mediator and the P-TEFb elongation factor, and is capable of stimulating HIV-1 transcription in a Tat-independent manner. In addition, Brd4 is used as a cellular adaptor by some animal and human papillomaviruses (HPV) for anchoring viral genomes to mitotic chromosomes. This tethering, mediated by Brd4 interaction with virus-encoded E2 protein, facilitates viral genome segregation during mitosis. Interestingly, Brd4 is also identified in a transcriptional silencing complex assembled by HPV E2 and turns out to be the long sought cellular corepressor that inhibits the expression of HPV-encoded E6 and E7 oncoproteins that antagonize p53 and pRB tumor suppressor activity, respectively. The dual role of Brd4 in gene activation and repression illustrates how a dynamic chromatin-binding adaptor is able to recruit distinct transcriptional regulators to modulate promoter activity through cell cycle progression.
Mutations of the PTPN11 gene in therapy-related MDS and AML with rare balanced chromosome translocations.	Activating mutations of the PTPN11 gene encoding the SHP2 tyrosine phosphatase is the most common genetic abnormality in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and is sporadically observed in myelodysplasia (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). An unselected series of 140 patients with therapy-related MDS or AML were investigated for mutations of PTPN11 in Exons 3, 4, 8, and 13. Four cases had mutations of the gene; three of these had deletions or loss of chromosome arm 7q. Two cases had rare balanced translocations to chromosome band 21q22 with rearrangement of the RUNX1 gene and the other two patients had rare balanced translocations to chromosome band 3q26 with rearrangement of the EVI1 gene. The findings support cooperation between so called Class I and Class II mutations in leukemogenesis.
Multiple paths to a drug resistance phenotype: mutations, translocations, deletions and amplification of coding genes or promoter regions, epigenetic changes and microRNAs.	The remarkable responses observed with imatinib (Gleevec) in the therapy of CML led many scientists to think that drug resistance, long recognized as a problem with "cytotoxic" agents, would soon become a thing of the past. But then reality set in. We learned that imatinib, a wonderful drug by any measure, was also susceptible to the development of resistance, as was gefitinib (Iressa), and then erlotinib (Tarceva). This evidence on resistance to "novel agents" together with new data on the complexity of cancer, the rapidly evolving story of microRNAs and their diverse roles, as well as evidence of the importance of epigenetic changes have allowed us to refine our models of drug resistance and how cells acquire these phenotypes. In this overview I will look at examples of how drug resistance develops including older and more recent data on the role of mutations, translocations, deletions, and amplification. The role of epigenetic changes and microRNAs will be discussed, as examples of different mechanisms by which a cell achieves the same end. Recurrent themes that have emerged will be underscored as we seek to understand how drug resistance occurs.
Translocations as a mechanism for homozygous deletion of 13q14 and loss of the ATM gene in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Chromosomal aberrations detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on interphase nuclei are important prognostic markers in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Deletions in 13q14 and in 11q22.3 are two of the most frequent aberrations in this disease entity (55 and 18%, respectively) and are usually effected by interstitial deletions. Here, we report on the case of a 66-year-old woman with CLL who was analyzed by conventional metaphase cytogenetics as well as fluorescence in situ hybridization. Deletion-specific probes detected a homozygous loss of two anonymous loci in chromosomal band 13q14 in parallel with a heterozygous loss of the ATM gene located in chromosomal band 11q22.3. Karyotype analysis indicated reciprocal but unbalanced translocations involving chromosomes 3, 11, and 13. Deleted sites on 13q14 appeared to be located within the breakpoint regions of the translocations. We show that mechanisms other than interstitial deletions may lead to loss of critical chromosomal regions in CLL.
Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma with a der(16)t(1;16) translocation.	Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (ERMS) is the most common subtype of RMS that predominantly involves the genitourinary tract and the head and neck regions in children younger than 10 years of age. Cytogenetically, ERMS is most frequently hyperdiploid, with extra copies of chromosomes 2, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, and 20. No consistent structural chromosomal alteration has been identified in ERMS. In contrast, a t(2;13)(q35;q14) or t(1;13)(q36;q14) corresponding to PAX3-FOXO1A (previously FKHR) and PAX7-FOXO1A gene fusions are considered tumor-specific anomalies for alveolar RMS (ARMS). Occasionally, a recurrent secondary structural rearrangement involving chromosomes 1 and 16 is seen in translocation-positive ARMS, a der(16)t(1;16) resulting in an imbalance of 1q and 16q material. Conventional cytogenetic analysis of an ERMS arising in the urinary bladder of a 22-month-old male child revealed this nonrandom secondary chromosomal aberration, der(16)(1;16)(q22;q24), in a hyperdiploid complement with extra copies of chromosomes 2, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 19, and 20. Subsequent analyses showed tumor cells to be negative for FOXO1A, PAX3, or PAX7 gene locus rearrangements (by fluorescence in situ hybridization) and also negative for PAX3-FOXO1A and PAX7-FOXO1A fusion transcripts (by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction). These results suggest that the unbalanced t(1;16) translocation may be seen in RMSs lacking a primary genetic rearrangement.
Aberrant immunoglobulin class switch recombination and switch translocations in activated B cell-like diffuse large B cell lymphoma.	To elucidate the mechanisms underlying chromosomal translocations in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), we investigated the nature and extent of immunoglobulin class switch recombination (CSR) in these tumors. We used Southern blotting to detect legitimate and illegitimate CSR events in tumor samples of the activated B cell-like (ABC), germinal center B cell-like (GCB), and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBL) subgroups of DLBCL. The frequency of legitimate CSR was lower in ABC DLBCL than in GCB DLBCL and PMBL. In contrast, ABC DLBCL had a higher frequency of internal deletions within the switch mu (Smu) region compared with GCB DLBCL and PMBL. ABC DLBCLs also had frequent deletions within Sgamma and other illegitimate switch recombinations. Sequence analysis revealed ongoing Smu deletions within ABC DLBCL tumor clones, which were accompanied by ongoing duplications and activation-induced cytidine deaminase-dependent somatic mutations. Unexpectedly, short fragments derived from multiple chromosomes were interspersed within Smu in one case. These findings suggest that ABC DLBCLs have abnormalities in the regulation of CSR that could predispose to chromosomal translocations. Accordingly, aberrant switch recombination was responsible for translocations in ABC DLBCLs involving BCL6, MYC, and a novel translocation partner, SPIB.
Cytogenetic investigations in couples with repeated miscarriages and malformed children: report of a novel insertion.	Recurrent miscarriage and the birth of a malformed child continue to be challenging problems for the patient and clinician. Often, cytogenetic studies have an important role in the evaluation of couples with a poor obstetric history. The present study deals with analysis of chromosome abnormalities in 2150 couples from India, and is the largest group ever reported in the literature. The observed incidence of chromosomal rearrangements in these couples was 3.5%. Apart from reciprocal, Robertsonian, inversions, a unique case of chromosome insertion was identified, which is perhaps only the second report in literature. Minor chromosome variants such as inv(9),inv(Y),9qh+, D/G variants were observed in 108 subjects. Cytogenetic studies should be performed for all couples with repeated miscarriages and bad obstetric history, and in cases of detected chromosomal aberration, the patient should be counselled individually according to the type of anomaly.
AGEs mediated expression and secretion of TNF alpha in rat retinal microglia.	Diabetic retinopathy induces an inflammatory response in the retina characterized by an increase in inflammatory cytokines and the activation of microglia. The degree of microglia activation may influence the extent of retina injury following retinal metabolic stress. We have previously shown that DR rats have elevated levels of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in their blood. We have also suggested that AGEs might be involved in microglial activation and production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha). In this study, we attempted to confirm that AGEs induce the release of TNF alpha from rat retinal microglia using an in vitro microglia culture system, and concurrently to explore the mediating mechanisms. AGEs increased the protein secretion and mRNA expression of TNF alpha in cultured rat retinal microglia. These effects of AGEs were primarily mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Furthermore, the inhibitors for mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK; p38, JNK and ERK 1/2) and nuclear factor-kB (NF-kB) could significantly decrease AGEs-induced TNF alpha release. AGEs-activated microglia showed an increase of NF-kB p65 nuclear translocation. These observations indicated that pathophysiological levels of AGEs may alter rat retinal microglia function by up-regulating TNF alpha expression and release via enhanced formation of intracellular ROS. AGEs-induced ROS subsequently activates MAPK (p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and NF-kB.
D2-40 and calretinin - a tissue microarray analysis of 341 malignant mesotheliomas with emphasis on sarcomatoid differentiation.	Anti-calretinin antibodies are useful to differentiate adenocarcinomas from malignant mesotheliomas of the lung. Therefore, calretinin expression is rarely reported for sarcomatoid mesotheliomas. Anti-podoplanin antibodies (eg D2-40) react with lymphatic endothelia, Kaposi's sarcoma, lymphangioma and mesotheliomas. For the interpretation of spindle cell lesions of the pleura, knowledge of calretinin and D2-40 expression frequencies in sarcomatoid mesothelioma is desirable. To systematically investigate the sensitivity of calretinin and D2-40 antibodies in epithelioid and sarcomatoid areas of malignant mesotheliomas, a tissue microarray with 341 malignant mesotheliomas, including 112 epithelioid, 46 sarcomatoid and 183 biphasic tumors was constructed. Epithelioid and sarcomatoid differentiated tumor areas were clearly separated within the tissue microarray. Expression of calretinin and D2-40 was separately studied in epithelioid and sarcomatoid areas by immunohistochemistry. Calretinin expression was found in 91% of epithelioid and 57% of sarcomatoid tumor areas. D2-40 immunostaining was present in 66% of the epithelioid and 30% of the sarcomatoid tumor areas. A combination of calretinin and D2-40 increased the sensitivity in epithelioid tumor areas to 0.96 and in sarcomatoid tumor areas to 0.66. These data indicate that a combination of calretinin and D2-40 will improve diagnostic accuracy for spindle cell lesions of the pleura, whereas almost all epithelioid mesotheliomas are identified by calretinin alone.
The impact of translocations and gene fusions on cancer causation.	Chromosome aberrations, in particular translocations and their corresponding gene fusions, have an important role in the initial steps of tumorigenesis; at present, 358 gene fusions involving 337 different genes have been identified. An increasing number of gene fusions are being recognized as important diagnostic and prognostic parameters in malignant haematological disorders and childhood sarcomas. The biological and clinical impact of gene fusions in the more common solid tumour types has been less appreciated. However, an analysis of available data shows that gene fusions occur in all malignancies, and that they account for 20% of human cancer morbidity. With the advent of new and powerful investigative tools that enable the detection of cytogenetically cryptic rearrangements, this proportion is likely to increase substantially.
Distinct mitotic segregation errors mediate chromosomal instability in aggressive urothelial cancers.	Chromosomal instability (CIN) is believed to have an important role in the pathogenesis of urothelial cancer (UC). The aim of this study was to evaluate whether disturbances of mitotic segregation contribute to CIN in UC, if these processes have any effect on the course of disease, and how deregulation of these mechanisms affects tumor cell growth.
Follicular dendritic cell sarcoma of the spleen.	Diagnosis of primary spindle cell tumors of the spleen is challenging because of the limited immunologic and cytogenetic characterization of this rare entity. We report a case of primary follicular dendritic cell (FDC) sarcoma of the spleen in a 44-year-old woman. Indications for FDC included positive staining for CD21, Ki-M4P, CD14, and fascin. Expression of both standard FDC markers CD23 and CD35 was detected immunohistochemically using tyramide signal amplification. Cytogenetic analysis revealed multiple clonal chromosomal aberrations involving unbalanced translocations of chromosomes X, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10, leading to net gains at 3q, 7p, 8q, and 9q and net losses at Xp, 8p, 9p, and 10p. Loss at Xp has been described previously in another tumor with FDC features, suggesting that this aberration might play a common role in this malignancy.
Sorting genomes by translocations and deletions.	Given two signed multi-chromosomal genomes Pi and Gamma with the same gene set, the problem of sorting by translocations (SBT) is to find a shortest sequence of translocations transforming Pi to Gamma, where the length of the sequence is called the translocation distance between Pi and Gamma. In 1996, Hannenhalli gave the formula of the translocation distance for the first time, based on which an O(n3) algorithm for SBT was given. In 2005, Anne Bergeron et al. revisited this problem and gave an elementary proof for the formula of the translocation distance which leads to a new O(n3) algorithm for SBT. In this paper, we show how to extend Anne Bergeron's algorithm for SBT to include deletions, which allows us to compare genomes containing different genes. We present an asymptotically optimal algorithm for transforming Pi to Gamma by translocations and deletions, providing a feasible sequence with length at most OPT+2, where OPT is the minimum number of translocations and deletions transforming Pi to Gamma. Furthermore, this analysis can be used to approximate the minimum number of translocations and insertions transforming one genome to another.
Delineation of a 1Mb breakpoint region at 1p13 in Wilms tumors by fine-tiling oligonucleotide array CGH.	Wilms tumor karyotypes frequently exhibit recurrent, large-scale chromosomal imbalances, among the most common of which are concurrent loss of 1p and gain of 1q. We have previously identified a novel breakpoint at 1p13 by 1 Mb-spaced array CGH, and have now undertaken a fine-tiling oligonucleotide array approach to map the region accurately in four tumors exhibiting rearrangements at this locus. The use of a 10 bp-spaced platform revealed that all four tumors in fact harbored different breakpoints, which targeted intragenic sequences in PHTF1, DCLRE1B, and NRAS, and an intergenic region immediately downstream of TRIM33. All four genes and breakpoints were within the 1.78 Mb intervals identified by the genome-wide BAC arrays. The precise breakpoint interval was in each case mapped to a 200-1,200 bp region and was confirmed for one case to lie within intron 3 of DCLRE1B by quantitative PCR. Analysis of local genome architecture revealed no convincing conservation of repetitive sequences or specific translocation/recombination-associated elements within the breakpoint regions. This study highlights the power of fine-tiling oligonucleotide arrays to delineate breakpoint regions identified by genome-wide screens.
Soft-tissue aneurysmal bone cyst: report of a case with t(5;17)(q33;p13).	We describe a primary aneurysmal bone cyst (ABC) of the soft tissue of the distal thigh in a 10-year-old girl. Radiographs showed an oblong density in the soft tissue that was consistent with hemorrhage or calcification; the underlying bone was unremarkable. Pathologic findings were consistent with myositis ossificans on gross examination, but numerous hemorrhagic cysts were present in the lesion. Histopathologic findings showed features of an ABC. Cytogenetic analysis of the tumor revealed 46,XX,t(5;17)(q33;p13); 17p13 breakpoints have been reported in intraosseous ABC. Thirteen months after diagnosis, the patient had excellent function and no radiologic evidence of recurrent disease. Soft-tissue ABC is a rare, benign lesion that can have a similar radiologic appearance to myositis ossificans but has a histologic appearance identical to that of its intraosseus counterpart.
Novel Abl kinase inhibitors in chronic myeloid leukemia in blastic phase and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is characterized by the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome, which is associated with a balanced translocation involving chromosomes 9 and 22 to produce a fusion gene (bcr-abl) that gives rise to a constitutively activated Abl tyrosine kinase. This kinase led to the discovery of several small-molecule inhibitors, imatinib being the first and most successful of these. Resistance to imatinib results in some patients from Abl kinase point mutations. Overcoming imatinib resistance represents one of the biggest challenges facing clinicians in the modern management of CML. In this review, we discuss the current understanding of CML pathophysiology and mechanisms of imatinib resistance and how advancing this knowledge has led to the design of novel therapies in the area of blastic phase CML and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with previous imatinib failure.
Spontaneous mutagenesis in bone marrow cells in the CBA and CBA/H-T6 mouse strains]	Comparative analysis of cytogenetic characteristics in bone marrow cells of the mouse lines CBA and CBA/H-T6 has been carried out. It was shown that translocation T6 effects the apparatus of cell division and can cause additional cytogenetic abnormalities.
Crosslinking of translation factor EF-G to proteins of the bacterial ribosome before and after translocation.	Elongation factor G (EF-G) promotes the translocation of tRNA and mRNA in the central cavity of the ribosome following the addition of each amino acid residue to a growing polypeptide chain. tRNA/mRNA translocation is coupled to GTP hydrolysis, catalyzed by EF-G and activated by the ribosome. In this study we probed EF-G interactions with ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) of the bacterial ribosome, by using a combination of chemical crosslinking, immunoblotting and mass spectroscopy analyses. We identified three bacterial r-proteins (L7/L12, S12 and L6) crosslinked to specific residues of EF-G in three of its domains (G', 3 and 5, respectively). EF-G crosslinks to L7/L12 and S12 were indistinguishable when EF-G was trapped on the ribosome before or after tRNA/mRNA translocation had occurred, whereas a crosslink between EF-G and L6 formed with greater efficiency before translocation had occurred. EF-G crosslinked to L7/L12 was capable of catalyzing multiple rounds of GTP hydrolysis, whereas EF-G crosslinked to S12 was inactive in GTP hydrolysis. These results imply that during the GTP hydrolytic cycle EF-G must detach from S12 within the central cavity of the ribosome, while EF-G can remain associated with L7/L12 located on one of the peripheral stalks of the ribosome. This mechanism may ensure that a single GTP molecule is hydrolyzed for each tRNA/mRNA translocation event.
Molecular cytogenetic characterization of t(14;19)(q32;p13), a new recurrent translocation in B cell malignancies.	Translocations involving an immunoglobulin (IG) locus are a recurring theme in B cell neoplasia. The rearrangements lead to the joining of an IG gene with a (proto)oncogene, whereby the latter comes under the influence of transcription-stimulating sequences in the constitutively active IG locus resulting in deregulation of the oncogene and neoplastic growth. We present here three cases of B cell neoplasia that showed a t(14;19)(q32;p13) by karyotypic analysis. Detailed molecular cytogenetic characterization of the breakpoints on chromosomes 14 and 19 in the two cases from which extra material was available, demonstrated the involvement of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH@)-variable region on chromosome 14 in both and, in one case, that the breakpoint was within the BRD4 gene on chromosome 19. Against the background of what one knows about IGH@ involvement in lymphatic malignancies, it is difficult to envisage a fusion gene with qualitatively altered protein product as the crucial pathogenetic outcome of the translocation. In spite of the fact that we found BRD4 split by the t(14;19)(q32;p13) in one of the two informative cases, we cannot be sure that this was the pathogenetically relevant target gene. Other pathogenetic possibilities could be deregulation of the neighboring NOTCH3 and/or ABHD9 genes, located distal to BRD4 in 19p13.
The forkhead transcription factor FoxO1 regulates proliferation and transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells.	The Forkhead box gene, group O (FoxO) family of Forkhead transcription factors is phopsphorylated and inactivated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway and regulates a variety of cellular functions. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) play a crucial role in liver fibrosis. A fibrotic stimulus causes HSCs to transdifferentiate from a quiescent phenotype to a collagen-producing myofibroblast-like phenotype and to proliferate.
Alcohol-induced protein kinase Calpha phosphorylation of Munc18c in carbachol-stimulated acini causes basolateral exocytosis.	Acute or chronic alcohol treatment does little to the exocrine pancreas but predisposes the pancreas to postprandial cholinergic stimulation that triggers cellular events leading to pancreatitis. This alcohol-induced susceptibility mechanism of pancreatitis is unknown.
p53 gain-of-function cancer mutants induce genetic instability by inactivating ATM.	Tp53 is the most commonly mutated tumour-suppressor gene in human cancers. In addition to the loss of tumour-suppression function, some missense mutants gain novel oncogenic activities. To elucidate the nature of the gain of function, we introduced the most common p53 cancer mutations (R248W and R273H) independently into the humanized p53 knock-in (HUPKI) allele in mice. Tumour-suppressor functions of p53 are abolished in p53-mutant mice. Several lines of evidence further indicate gain-of-function of p53 mutants in promoting tumorigenesis. p53(R248W) mice rapidly succumb to certain types of cancers not commonly observed in p53(-/-) mice. Interchromosomal translocations, a type of genetic instability rarely observed in p53(-/-) cells, are readily detectable in p53-mutant pre-tumor thymocytes. Although normal in p53(-/-) mouse cells, the G(2)-M checkpoint is impaired in p53-mutant cells after DNA damage. These acquired oncogenic properties of mutant p53 could be explained by the findings that these p53 mutants interact with the nuclease Mre11 and suppress the binding of the Mre11-Rad50-NBS1 (MRN) complex to DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs), leading to impaired Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) activation. Therefore, p53 gain-of-function mutants promote tumorigenesis by a novel mechanism involving active disruption of critical DNA damage-response pathways.
Leiomyoma of the suprarenal gland in a child with ataxia-telangiectasia.	We report the occurrence of a leiomyoma of the suprarenal gland in a 10-year-old girl with ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T). Muscle cell tumors are very uncommon in this gland as they are in A-T. Possible reasons for developing nonhematologic tumors in this syndrome are reviewed. A defect in DNA repair mechanisms probably favors, in young children, the expression of tumors normally expected in the aged.
All advanced stage non-Hodgkin's lymphomas with a polymerase chain reaction amplifiable breakpoint of bcl-2 have residual cells containing the bcl-2 rearrangement at evaluation and after treatment.	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of bcl-2 provides an extremely sensitive method to detect minimal disease in approximately 50% of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). In an attempt to determine the clinical usefulness of this technique, we examined the bone marrow (BM) of 152 patients with advanced-stage NHL at the time of evaluation and after induction or salvage chemotherapy before autologous BM transplantation. The BM proved to be an accessible and reproducible tissue source to determine PCR positivity because all of the 102 patients examined had the same PCR-amplifiable breakpoint in their BM and lymph node. At the time of evaluation, PCR analysis in advanced-stage NHL patients added little additional information to morphologic analysis because each technique identified BM infiltration in approximately 70% of patients. PCR was significantly more useful in determining BM infiltration after induction or salvage therapy. At that time, approximately 50% of patients had morphologically normal BM, whereas PCR analysis remained positive in 100% of those with an amplifiable breakpoint. These observations were confirmed in a clinical trial attempting to induce remission in previously untreated low-grade advanced-stage NHL patients. In this series, PCR was positive in all patients after treatment although the BM was histologically uninvolved in 50% of cases, showing that conventional therapy did not eradicate bcl-2-positive cells.
Complex genome rearrangements reveal evolutionary dynamics of pericentromeric regions in the Triticeae.	Most pericentromeric regions of eukaryotic chromosomes are heterochromatic and are the most rapidly evolving regions of complex genomes. The closely related genomes within hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L., 2n=6x=42, AABBDD), as well as in the related Triticeae taxa, share large conserved chromosome segments and provide a good model for the study of the evolution of pericentromeric regions. Here we report on the comparative analysis of pericentric inversions in the Triticeae, including Triticum aestivum, Aegilops speltoides, Ae. longissima, Ae. searsii, Hordeum vulgare, Secale cereale, and Agropyron elongatum. Previously, 4 pericentric inversions were identified in the hexaploid wheat cultivar 'Chinese Spring' ('CS') involving chromosomes 2B, 4A, 4B, and 5A. In the present study, 2 additional pericentric inversions were detected in chromosomes 3B and 6B of 'CS' wheat. Only the 3B inversion pre-existed in chromosome 3S, 3Sl, and 3Ss of Aegilops species of the Sitopsis section, the remaining inversions occurring after wheat polyploidization. The translocation T2BS/6BS previously reported in 'CS' was detected in the hexaploid variety 'Wichita' but not in other species of the Triticeae. It appears that the B genome is more prone to genome rearrangements than are the A and D genomes. Five different pericentric inversions were detected in rye chromosomes 3R and 4R, 4Sl of Ae. longissima, 4H of barley, and 6E of Ag. elongatum. This indicates that pericentric regions in the Triticeae, especially those of group 4 chromosomes, are undergoing rapid and recurrent rearrangements.
Acquired chromosomal rearrangements targeting selected transcription factors: contribution of molecular cytogenetic and expression analyses to the identification of clinically and biologically relevant subgroups in hematological malignancies.	In leukemias chromosomal aberrations, balanced translocations in particular, play a critical role in the oncogenic process. The characterization of these chromosomal alterations was crucial to the discovery of the genes implicated in leukemogenesis, as the chromosomal breakpoints indicated their genomic localization. In addition, these molecular defects may serve as targets for diagnostic essays and can have a major prognostic value. Finally, the characterization of the deregulated cellular pathways potentially identifies targets for therapeutic intervention. In this paper we summarize our efforts to expand the current knowledge of the diagnostic, prognostic or biological significance of selected chromosomal aberrations identified in M-FISH studies. First, we illustrated the power of M-FISH in dissecting complex chromosomal aberrations in myeloid neoplasms. MLL amplification was defined as a clinical entity characterized by adverse prognosis and within the multitude and variety of chromosomal rearrangements a pattern of a limited number of cytogenetic subclasses was discerned. In leukemias characterized by 11q23 amplification, we described the amplicon and confirmed MLL, in addition to DDX6, as a principal amplification target. Molecular characterization of a large series of unselected sporadic and recurrent 3q26 rearranged leukemias confirmed the decisive role of ectopic EVI1 expression in these malignancies. We contributed to an extensive analysis of the phenotypical and prognostic features of T-ALL characterized by HOX11L2 expression and identified HOX11L2 overexpression as one of the most frequent genetic defects in childhood T-ALL, associated with intermediate prognosis. Finally, we designed and validated diagnostic tools for the detection of the t(9;14) (p13;q34) resulting in PAX5 overexpression and convincingly associated the presence of this rearrangement to high-grade morphology and karyotype complexity. In conclusion, the series of investigations presented here clearly illustrate the benefits of M-FISH as molecular tool for the dissection and characterization of complex and cryptic rearrangements. The subsequent reports demonstrate the utility of molecular cytogenetics and expression analyses to the clinical management of patients diagnosed with hematological malignancies.
A model for genetic complementation controlling the chromosomal abnormalities and loss of heterozygosity formation in cancer.	The relationship between the apparently random chromosomal changes found in aneuploidy and the genetic instability driving the progression of cancer is not clear. We report a test of the hypothesis that aneuploid chromosomal abnormalities might be selected to preserve cell-survival genes during loss of heterozygosity (LOH) formations which eliminate tumor suppressor genes. The LOHs and structurally abnormal chromosomes present in the aneuploid LoVo (colon), A549 (lung), SUIT-2 (pancreas), and LN-18 (glioma) cancer cell lines were identified by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and Spectral Karyotyping (SKY). The Mann-Whitney U and chi square tests were used to evaluate possible differences in chromosome numbers and abnormalities between the cell lines, with two-tailed P values of <0.01 being considered significant. The cell lines differed significantly in chromosome numbers and frequency of structurally abnormal chromosomes. The SNP analysis revealed that each cell line contained at least a haploid set of somatic chromosomes, consistent with our hypothesis that cell-survival genes are widely scattered throughout the genome. Further, over 90% of the chromosomal abnormalities seemed to be selected, often after LOH formation, for gene-dosage compensation or to provide heterozygosity for specific chromosomal regions. These results suggest that the chromosomal changes of aneuploidy are not random, but may be selected to provide gene-dosage compensation and/or retain functional alleles of cell-survival genes during LOH formation.
Pseudodicentric 22;Y translocation transmitted through four generations of a large family without phenotypic repercussion.	The most frequent Y-autosome translocations involve an acrocentric autosome and they are frequently familial with neither phenotypic nor reproductive repercussion. However, different Y-autosome translocations have been related to infertility, due to abnormal pairing of the X and Y chromosomes at meiosis and an abnormal XY-body formation or by the disruption of the AZFs (Azoospermic Factor). Rare forms of Y-autosome translocations are those resulting in an unbalanced 45-chromosome karyotype that includes a dicentric Y+autosome chromosome. We describe a new case of a familial pseudodicentric 22;Y that is carried by 19 male members of a large family without phenotypic repercussion. Cytogenetic analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) and subtelomeric Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) assay have been performed. All male members of the family showed the karyotype 45,X,psu dic(22;Y)(p11.2;qter).ish psu dic(22;Y) (SRY+,DYZ3+,D14/D22Z1+). In conclusion, the presence of the dicentric chromosome in the male members of the family reported does not seem to interfere with the correct progression of spermatogenesis.
Identification of a novel recessive RELN mutation using a homozygous balanced reciprocal translocation.	Two siblings from a consanguineous Egyptian marriage showed an identical phenotype of cortical lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia, severe epilepsy, and mental retardation. Examination of karyotype revealed 46, t(7;12)(q22;p13)mat (7;12)(q22;p13)pat in both affected children, suggesting a homozygous reciprocal balanced translocation. Each healthy parent was a carrier of the balanced translocation in the heterozygous state, suggesting homozygous disruption of a gene involved in brain development. There were early spontaneous abortions in this family, as would be expected from transmission of an unbalanced chromosome. A disruption of RELN at 7q22.1 with absence of encoded protein was identified. This is the first demonstration that such rare homozygous translocations can be used to identify recessive disease gene mutations.
Dandy-Walker complex in a boy with a 5 Mb deletion of region 1q44 due to a paternal t(1;20)(q44;q13.33).	A 10-year-old boy with vermis hypoplasia, dilatation of the fourth ventricle, enlarged cisterna magna and aplasia of the corpus callosum, consistent with the Dandy-Walker complex (DWC), and slight facial dysmorphisms, severe motor and mental retardation is presented. By combining data obtained by karyotyping, array-CGH, FISH, and multiplex ligation-mediated probe amplification (MLPA) we identified a 5 Mb deletion of the 1q44 --> qter region resulting from a paternal t(1;20)(q44;q13.33). This smallest 1q44 deletion reported so far, enabled us to significantly narrow down the number of candidate genes for the DWC in this region. Since the ZNF124 transcription factor is strongly expressed in the fetal brain it may represent a candidate gene for the DWC at 1q44.
Mandibulofacial dysostosis in a patient with a de novo 2;17 translocation that disrupts the HOXD gene cluster.	Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS) is the prototypical mandibulofacial dysostosis syndrome, but other mandibulofacial dysostosis syndromes have been described. We report an infant with mandibulofacial dysostosis and an apparently balanced de novo 2;17 translocation. She presented with severe lower eyelid colobomas requiring skin grafting, malar and mandibular hypoplasia, bilateral microtia with external auditory canal atreasia, dysplastic ossicles, hearing loss, bilateral choanal stenosis, cleft palate without cleft lip, several oral frenula of the upper lip/gum, and micrognathia requiring tracheostomy. Her limbs were normal. Chromosome analysis at the 600-band level showed a 46,XX,t(2;17)(q24.3;q23) karyotype. Sequencing of the entire TCOF1 coding region did not show evidence of a sequence variation. High-resolution genomic microarray analysis did not identify a cryptic imbalance. FISH mapping refined the breakpoints to 2q31.1 and 17q24.3-25.1 and showed the 2q31.1 breakpoint likely affects the HOXD gene cluster. Several atypical findings and lack of an identifiable TCOF1 mutation suggest that this child has a provisionally unique mandibulofacial dysostosis syndrome. The apparently balanced de novo translocation provides candidate loci for atypical and TCOF1 mutation negative cases of TCS. Based on the agreement of our findings with one previous case of mandibulofacial dysostosis with a 2q31.1 transocation, we hypothesize that misexpression of genes in the HOXD gene cluster produced the described phenotype in this patient.
Pathogenesis of various forms of double outlet right ventricle in mouse fetal trisomy 13.	The pathogenesis of double outlet right ventricle with or without pulmonary infundibular atresia in mouse fetal trisomy 13 was studied at the organ level using microdissection and scanning electron microscopy. Altogether, 394 karyotyped trisomic embryos were collected between 11 days and 16 hours of gestation (presence of a vaginal plug = day 1) and 15 days of gestation at intervals of 8 hours, and at 16 days of gestation. The hearts were perfusion-fixed, microdissected, and prepared to be observed in scanning electron microscope in the following standardized orientations: frontal, right or left profile, septal and parietal halves of the right ventricle and outflow tract (conotruncus). Comparison of 276 trisomic hearts with their normal counterparts described previously has shown that: the first pathognomonic feature is the abnormal anterior position of the proximal part of the parietal outflow tract ridge or of both ridges (at 12 days and 16 hours of gestation); the abnormal anterior fusion of these ridges ("coalescence") results in a mesenchymal mass behind which is deviated the pulmonary part of the outflow tract lumen; from 14 days and 16 hours of gestation on, this lumen is either obstructed, resulting in a supravalvar stenosis of the pulmonary trunk and subsequently evolving into double outlet right ventricle with pulmonary infundibular atresia; or, in a minority of cases, this lumen is not obstructed and the heart develops into double outlet right ventricle without pulmonary infundibular atresia. The pathogenesis of these malformations differs from most of the known hypotheses based on deductions from human malformed hearts, as well as from observations of the pathogenesis of similar outflow tract malformations, such as those found in the Keeshond dog or rats treated with trimethadione.
Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization in multiple myeloma and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance without and with positive plasma cell identification: analysis of 192 cases from the Region of Southern Denmark.	Interphase fluorescence in-situ hybridization (i-FISH) was used to investigate 192 patients with multiple myeloma (MM; n = 182) and benign monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS; n = 10). Of the 182 MM cases, 132 were investigated without and 50 with positive plasma cell identification (PC-ID+); 134 were investigated at diagnosis, 32 at time of progression, 7 at time of relapse, and 9 were investigated with partial remission or no response. The FISH analysis detected 11q23 (n = 61), 13q13 approximately q14 (n = 181), 14q32 (n = 121), 17p13.1 (n = 181), t(4;14) (n = 76), and t(11;14) (n = 73). Of the 132 patients investigated without PC-ID+, 61 (46%) showed chromosomal abnormalities, compared with 45 of 49 of evaluable cases (92%) with PC-ID+. The increase in abnormal cases identified was due mainly to the detection of more cases with 13q-, 17p-, and der(14)(q32). G-banding cytogenetics was performed in 72 patients; abnormalities were revealed in 19 cases (26%). Concordance between G-banding and i-FISH for one or more aberrations was found in 14 patients. Translocation (11;14) was detected by both methods in four of five cases. In four out of seven cases with either near-tetraploidy/triploidy or hypoploidy in the G-banded karyotypes, the modal number in the G-banded karyotypes could not be elucidated with certainty with i-FISH. Three of the 10 MGUS patients showed abnormalities. In conclusion, PC-ID+ is important for the detection of structural aberrations and disclosing translocations involving 14q32. Of these, translocations t(4;14) constituted 9% and t(11;14), 20%. Finally, based on the small number of cytogenetically abnormal cases, it is recommended to include cytogenetics (and, for example, the DNA index) in the prognostic armamentarium.
"Home-brew" FISH assay shows higher efficiency than BCR-ABL dual color, dual fusion probe in detecting microdeletions and complex rearrangements associated with t(9;22) in chronic myeloid leukemia.	We carried out fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies on 18 Ph+ chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cases with chromosome 22 genomic deletions with the Vysis BCR-ABL dual-color/dual-fusion probe (BCR-ABL DC/DF) to compare the hybridization patterns obtained with this approach to those obtained with the "home brew" BAC/PAC system. Our results are the following: chromosome 22 microdeletions less than 400 kilobases (Kb) were not detected by the BCR DC/DF probe; FISH analysis with the BCR DC/DF probe in cases bearing chromosome 22 microdeletions ranging from 400 to 700 Kb produced a faint signal on the der(9); and the BCR-ABL DC/DF FISH pattern was comparable to the one obtained by the home brew probe in the presence of a 900-Kb chromosome 22 microdeletion. Our home-brew FISH system represents an accurate method for revealing a subset of CML patients with der(9) microdeletions.
13q deletions in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders: frequent association with translocation.	The 13q14 deletion is the most frequent abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukemias/small lymphocytic lymphomas, and this early rearrangement is observed from the start of the disease. The systematic use of a panel of interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) may not reveal some probes (targeting chromosomes 11q, 13q, 17p, and chromosome 12) structural abnormalities. In this series, we analyzed metaphases by conventional cytogenetics, followed by interphase and metaphase fluorescence in situ hybridization. We were able to observe 17 cases of 13q translocations with deletions in eight of them. Three distinct regions were involved by translocations in association with or without deletions: a region centromeric to RB1 (13q11 approximately 13), a zone telomeric to D13D25 (13q21 approximately 31), and a 13q14 region deliniated by RB1 and D13S25. In this area, the deletion was variable: RB1 alone (one case), D13S319 approximately D13S25 (five cases), and from RB1 to D13S25 (two cases). The very high frequency of 13q14 loss suggests that these deletions are of pathogenetic importance, but, the importance of the translocations remains to be determined.
Cryptic ins(4;11)(q21;q23q23) detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization: a variant of t(4;11)(q21;q23) in an infant with a precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia report of a second case.	We report the chromosomal findings in a 4-year-old female with precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The diagnostic karyotype showed an isochromosome 7q, i(7)(q10), as well as questionable rearrangements on 9p and 11q. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies on both interphase and metaphase cells using the MLL "break-apart" and the centromeric chromosome 4 probes were instrumental in the characterization of an MLL gene rearrangement, which was cryptic by conventional cytogenetic analysis. Specifically, the FISH pattern was consistent with an insertion of the 5' region of the MLL gene into chromosome 4 at band q21, most likely a variant t(4;11)(q21;q23). This is the second case of FISH detection of an ins(4;11) in ALL. Our case exemplifies the importance of FISH in the further characterization of precursor B-cell ALL cases without any apparent prognostically significant chromosomal abnormalities.
Chromosomal aberrations in oral solitary fibrous tumor.	The results of cytogenetic analysis of a solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) of the oral cavity in a 43-year-old man is reported. The abnormal cells carried a complex translocation with the karyotype 46,XY [15 cells]/46,XYt(1;17;18)(p13;q11.2;q21)[5 cells]. This is the first case reporting chromosomal aberrations in an oral SFT.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia: a novel PML/RARalpha fusion that generates a frameshift in the RARalpha transcript and ATRA resistance.	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by increased promyelocytes in the marrow that harbor a t(15;17) and promyelocyte leukemia (PML)/RARalpha fusion gene. The oncogenic gene product is believed to act through disruption of the transcription-modulating function of RARalpha. Differentiation of promyelocytes and remission is achieved with all transretinoic acid (ATRA) therapy usually in combination with chemotherapy. This report describes a patient with the t(15;17) who did not respond typically to ATRA and IDAC induction chemotherapy, although achieved and remains in complete remission five years following induction and one consolidation with high dose cytarabine (HIDAC). RT-PCR and sequencing revealed a novel fusion of RARalpha exon 3 to PML exon 5 that creates a frameshift and premature stop codon in the RARalpha portion of the transcript. Since none of the RARalpha functional domains are maintained, this case highlights the possibility that PML/RARalpha may directly affect promyelocyte differentiation through disruption of PML function.
Establishment and characterization of the new splenic marginal zone lymphoma-derived cell line UCH1 carrying a complex rearrangement involving t(8;14) and chromosome 3.	A new cell line, designated UCH1, was established from a patient with splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL). UCH1 cells feature a mature B-cell phenotype, characterized by surface IgM +, kappa+, CD5-, CD10-, CD19+ and CD20+. The BCL2 and BCL6 genes retained their germ-line configurations and overexpression of cyclin D1 was not detected. UCH1 cells carry numerical and structural aberrations in chromosome 3, but these were too complex to be analyzed with the conventional G-banding method. Spectral karyotyping (SKY) and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis clearly demonstrated the presence of a balanced translocation between chromosomes 8 and 14 [t(8;14)(q24;q32)] in the complex aberrations involving chromosome 3. The results of Southern blot analysis supported this finding by showing rearrangement of the c-myc gene in UCH1 cells. SKY analysis also identified a translocation involving chromosome band 18q21, to which BCL2 and MALT1 genes were assigned, suggesting their implication in the development or progression of SMZL.
A translocation t(4; 13)(q21;q14) as single clonal chromosomal abnormality in a parathyroid adenoma.	Most of the information about the genetic composition of parathyroid tumors has been obtained by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) studies, whereas only few conventional cytogenetic investigation results are available. We have performed cytogenetic analysis of short-term cultures from 3 parathyroid adenoma tissue samples. Two cases showed a normal karyotype in all the metaphases obtained from independent primary cultures. In one case 5 metaphases (in a total of 25) from 2 independent cultures showed a nonrandom translocation t(4;13)(q21;q14), which was therefore accepted as clonal. To our knowledge this is the second clonal translocation described in this tumor type. Further conventional cytogenetic analysis of more parathyroid tumor specimens would be necessary to identify other specific abnormalities and the involved genes with a potential important role in the diagnosis, prognosis and pathogenesis of parathyroid tumors.
Gatekeeper role of 14-3-3tau protein in HIV-1 gp120-mediated apoptosis of human endothelial cells by inactivation of Bad.	HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD) is a major neurological complication often observed in the advanced stages of AIDS. We have reported that 14-3-3 proteins in cerebrospinal fluid, reflecting neuronal cell destruction, is a real-time marker of HAD progression. This study was designed to examine the role of 14-3-3 proteins in HAD.
Chromosomal translocations t(4;14), t(11;14) and proliferation rate stratify patients with mature plasma cell myelomas into groups with different survival probabilities: a molecular epidemiologic study on tissue microarrays.	Plasma cell myelomas (PMs) exhibit clinical and molecular heterogeneity. To date, morphology and immunohistochemistry on bone marrow trephines are of limited value to stratify patients into different prognostic categories. However, some chromosomal translocations are of prognostic and/or of predictive importance in PMs. In this study, the prognostic significance of morphology, CyclinD1 expression, proliferation index (Mib1) and presence of the translocations FGFR3/IgH [t(4;14)] and CCND1/IgH [t(11;14)] are compared in 119 patients with PM. Immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis were carried out on a tissue microarray containing bone marrow trephines. Hundred and one PMs showed a mature morphology whereas 10 were immature. All but one PM carrying a translocation showed a mature morphology. Patients with a t(4;14) (12%) had a statistically significant shorter 1-year survival (P=0.004), whereas those with a t(11;14) (21%) had a trend towards a better clinical outcome. CyclinD1 protein expression was not significantly associated with survival. Besides the t(4;14), an immature morphology (P<0.001) and a proliferation index (Mib1) of more than 10% (P=0.002) were associated with a significantly worse outcome. A high occurrence of strong CyclinD1 protein expression in the tumor cells was predictive of either a t(11;14) or of a low level amplification of the CCND1 gene, suggesting that different molecular mechanisms may have lead to an over-expression of the CyclinD1 protein in PMs. These findings demonstrate that a high proliferation rate and translocations involving the IgH locus can stratify mature PMs into groups with distinct survival probabilities.
Granulomatous slack skin with a translocation t(3;9)(q12;p24).	Granulomatous slack skin is a rare cutaneous T-lymphoproliferative disease characterized by pendulous skin folds. Histology typically reveals a dermal infiltrate of T cells and multinucleated giant cells showing elastophagocytosis. Specific genetic abnormalities have not yet been identified. Currently, granulomatous slack skin is classified according to the World Health Organization classification as a variant of mycosis fungoides although supporting genetic evidence is yet lacking. We present a well-documented case of a 46-year-old man with the typical histologic and clinical findings of granulomatous slack skin. Cytogenetic analysis of a skin biopsy revealed a t(3;9)(q12;p24) as the sole chromosomal abnormality. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis did not reveal involvement of the JAK2 gene, located at chromosome band 9p24, and previously shown to be amplified in Hodgkin lymphoma and primary mediastinal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Although more cases have to be reported and the putative oncogene involved in the translocation has yet to be identified, the cytogenetic findings are unlike those described for mycosis fungoides and suggests that granulomatous slack skin is a distinct primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
The peptide nucleic acid targeted to a regulatory sequence of the translocated c-myc oncogene in Burkitt's lymphoma lacks immunogenicity: follow-up characterization of PNAEmu-NLS.	The present study aims to evaluate the antigenicity of a PNA complementary to the Emu sequence (PNAEmu) with cancer therapeutic potential properties in Burkitt's lymphoma (BL). In BL cells, the c-myc oncogene is repositioned next to the Emu enhancer of the immunoglobulin (Ig) locus, due to chromosomal translocation, and up-regulated. PNAEmu linked to a nuclear localization signal peptide was shown specifically to block c-myc hyperexpression by inhibiting cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Recently, we reported that the administration of PNAEmu to mice, following inoculation with BL cells, hinders tumor growth without toxic effects. To investigate the potential use of PNAEmu in clinical applications further, we tested its antigenicity. Mice were inoculated with an emulsion of free PNA or PNA crosslinked to the immunogenic carrier keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) with Freund's adjuvant. Antibodies to free PNA were undetected, whereas both IgG and IgM antibodies to PNA-KLH were detected in mouse serum 28 and 38 days after inoculation.
The hair collar sign as a marker for neural tube defects.	The hair collar sign has been described as a marker of cranial dysraphism, including encephaloceles, meningoceles, and heterotropic brain tissue. This report describes a male born with a hair collar sign who subsequently was found to have a Klippel-Feil anomaly, diastematomyelia, multiple segmental spine and rib anomalies, and a translocation between chromosomes 1 and 4; t(1;4) (q44;q10). While not previously documented, spine abnormalities may be an associated abnormality with the hair collar sign. Physicians should consider radiographic evaluation of the spine in all newborns with a hair collar sign, as well as genetic screening.
Pericentric inversion of chromosome 5: a possible threat to male fertility?	Pericentric inversion of chromosome 5 (inv(5)(p12,q13] was diagnosed in two unrelated men with normal phenotype referred for infertility. The spermatogenic damage in these patients may be explained on the basis of the X-Y bivalent behaviour in cases of some balanced structural rearrangements of the chromosomes. The Authors propose a possible negative action of inv(5) in male gamete production and suggest a larger use of the chromosome analysis in the study of male infertility.
Molecular confirmation of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome with a subtle translocation of chromosome 4.	Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is a clinically recognizable, multiple congenital anomaly syndrome usually associated with terminal deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4. A girl with clinical features of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome did not show an obvious deletion of chromosome 4, and a molecular defect was suspected. RFLPs of genomic DNA from the proband and her parents were studied using DNA probes from the distal region of chromosome 4p. Fluorescence in situ hybridization using a cosmid p847.351 containing the fragment 847 E-C was performed to investigate the possibility of a subtle translocation. Cytogenetic analyses done on the child and on both parents did not conclusively reveal abnormalities of chromosome 4. Molecular studies using two probes mapped to distal 4p showed the absence of the maternal haplotype in the child. These findings are thus consistent with a molecular deletion of 4p and confirm the diagnosis of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome. Cytogenetic experiments involving fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that the mother carried a subtle translocation between chromosomes 4 and 19, 46,XX,t(4,19)(p16.3; p13.3), which resulted in an unbalanced form in the child. Chorionic villus sampling for prenatal diagnosis in a subsequent pregnancy showed the fetus to be unaffected. This provides the first evidence, in chromosome 4p, of a molecular deletion due to a subtle, inherited translocation leading to the Wolf-Hirschhorn phenotype. Such subtle translocations may become an important mechanism for some recurrent genetic defects.
Multipotent hematopoietic cells susceptible to alternative double-strand break repair pathways that promote genome rearrangements.	Chromosomal translocations are a hallmark of hematopoietic malignancies. The initial molecular events or pathways that lead to translocations in hematopoietic cells are largely unknown, particularly in the stem cell-enriched population postulated to be the initial target for these events. We used in vitro differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells combined with an I-SceI endonuclease double-strand break (DSB) repair assay to determine the relative susceptibility of isogenic hematopoietic subpopulations to DSB-induced translocations and the mechanisms that generate them. DSB-induced reciprocal translocations were frequently observed in multipotent progenitors but significantly suppressed in actively proliferating myeloid cells. Most reciprocal translocations in multipotent progenitors resulted from repair consistent with single-strand annealing followed by gap repair. Overexpression of Rad51, a protein central to DNA strand exchange and recombination, did not further increase the frequency of recovered translocations but did increase the frequency of long-tract gene conversion events associated with loss of heterozygosity and tandem duplications. These data directly demonstrate that hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cells are particularly susceptible to the formation of chromosomal rearrangements analogous to those observed in human hematopoietic malignancies. This particular subpopulation apparently represents a window of opportunity for the initiation of potentially oncogenic events following DNA damage.
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: molecular and cytogenetic findings.	Chromosomal changes have been identified early in the disease process in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL): both losses and gains of chromatin have been found on several chromosomes. The extent of chromosomal aberrations increases with disease stage and in more aggressive subtypes of the disorder. Changes in specific genes, such as NAV3, have been characterized in patients with CTCL, and may produce a proliferation advantage for affected cells. In addition, the expression of some genes can discriminate between controls and patients with CTCL. Therefore, the over- or underexpression of certain genes may be of diagnostic and pathogenic relevance in this disease, and may allow the development of selective treatments.
Gene amplification of Japanese non-Hodgkin lymphoma with involvement of the BCL2 gene.	Twenty cases of Japanese non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with B cell markers were studied with respect to their immunoglobulin heavy (IgH) chain gene loci on chromosome 14 and BCL2 loci on chromosome 18. All of the 20 cases showed IgH gene rearrangement on at least one of the alleles. Molecular analysis using two chromosome 18-specific DNA probes (pFL1 and pFL2) showed rearrangement of the BCL2 region in three of 20 cases. As these three samples showed the rearranged allele of the IgH gene comigrating with that of the BCL2 gene, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was carried out to amplify the juncture between IgJH on chromosome 14 and BCL2 on chromosome 18. In all of these three cases, gene amplification between the two loci was found to occur, indicating that molecular mechanisms involved in this type of chromosomal translocation in Japan might be similar to cases in the United States (U.S.) in a limited number of cases. Furthermore, this amplification technique revealed minimal tumor cells circulating in peripheral blood, even though lymphoma cells could not be identified morphologically. Thus, the PCR technique is useful for both the detection of minimal tumor cells as well as for the determination of the molecular nature of chromosomal translocation in some of Japanese cases.
Establishment and characterization of a new human Bence Jones-type myeloma cell line, NOP-2.	A new human myeloma cell line NOP-2, producing immunoglobulin (Ig)-lambda-light chain was established from a patient with Bence Jones-type multiple myeloma. Morphologically, the cell line had plasmacytoid characteristics by light- and electron-microscopic examination. Phenotypic studies of NOP-2 cells revealed no surface Ig, but they were positive for cytoplasmic Ig-lambda, OKT10 (CD 38), and PCA-1. Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen was not detected. Chromosomal abnormalities of t(11;14) and t(8;22) were found in both NOP-2 cells and the original myeloma cells obtained from the patient. NOP-2 cells produced and secreted Ig-lambda light chain, but lacked immunoglobulins of any heavy chains. Rearrangements of both immunoglobulin heavy- and light-chain genes were observed in NOP-2 cells, though the cells expressed detectable mRNA only for Ig-lambda light chain. This cell line may serve as a useful model for understanding the hierarchy of human immunoglobulins and the pathophysiology of Bence Jones-type multiple myeloma.
Establishment of a rhabdoid tumor cell line with a specific chromosomal abnormality, 46,XY,t(11;22)(p15.5;q11.23).	The malignant rhabdoid tumor is a rare, poorly understood tumor which occurs primarily in children. The kidney is a frequent primary site of origin, but the tumor has arisen in other mesodermally derived tissues as well. Controversy exists regarding the embryonic origin of the rhabdoid tumor and recent histopathologic studies suggest that it may be of neuroepithelial origin. Our immunohistochemical and electron micrographic studies support this theory. No consistent chromosome abnormalities have been reported in this tumor and no cell lines are available for study. We have established and characterized the first rhabdoid tumor cell line. It possesses a specific chromosomal abnormality, 46,XY,t(11;22)(p15.5;q11.23). The translocation may provide an important clue to the pathogenesis of the tumor as well as an opportunity for further study of the involved chromosome regions.
Loss of amplification and appearance of a novel translocation site of the c-myc oncogene in HL-60 leukemia cells.	The chromosomal localization of c-myc sequences was determined by in situ hybridization in HL-60 cells (HL-60a) which contain an amplified c-myc locus and in an HL-60 subline (T-HL60) which has lost the amplification and has proportionately lower levels of c-myc RNA. While in HL-60a cells amplified c-myc sequences were found on the M3q+ marker chromosome, in T-HL60 cells one or few residual c-myc copies were found on a novel 4q+ marker chromosome. Comparative phenotypic analysis of HL-60a and T-HL60 cells show that the decrease in c-myc amplification/expression is not accompanied by changes in the malignant phenotype, namely in doubling time and clonogenic capability in semi-solid media. The significance of these results is discussed in the context of the role of c-myc amplification in the establishment and/or maintenance of the leukemic phenotype in HL-60 cells. In general, these results further underscore the utility of in situ hybridization analysis in identifying oncogene translocations which are not detectable by conventional karyotypic analysis.
Translocation (Y;2) in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	A case of ALL in a 2 1/2-year-old boy with fatal outcome is presented. Cytogenetic analysis revealed a hypodiploid karyotype: 45,X-Y,-2,+der (2)t(Y;2),-12,i(17q),+mar. Some metaphases represented a sideline with 44 chromosomes and monosomy 8 was a consistent anomaly. These findings are rather uncommon in ALL. Hypodiploidy and the translocation, however, indicated poor prognosis in this case.
Sinonasal rhabdomyosarcoma in children and young adults.	Rhabdomyosarcoma is an aggressive malignant tumor often developing in the head and neck in children. In the sinonasal region, rhabdomyosarcoma constitutes a clinically important group because of the difficulty of surgical resection and its generally poor prognosis. We reviewed the archival pathology materials of 39 cases of rhabdomyosarcoma of the head and neck in children and young adults. The diagnosis was made through light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and/or reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) molecular testing. We identified 14 tumors in the nose and paranasal sinuses. Patients' ages ranged from 9 to 40 years. Thirteen of the tumors were of the alveolar subtype. In 11 cases, the tumor cells were poorly differentiated, forming a solid alveolar pattern. In 2 cases, there was evidence of rhabdomyoblastic differentiation. Only one case was classified as embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. A significant number of tumor cells in these cases had clear or vacuolated cytoplasm. Four alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma tumors were tested by RT-PCR; all showed PAX3/FKHR chromosomal translocation. We conclude that sinonasal rhabdomyosarcoma is predominantly of the alveolar subtype and frequently shows clear cells. A review of the literature shows that these tumors carry a poor prognosis, partly because of their parameningeal location and partly because of their "undifferentiated" alveolar histology.
Xp11 translocation carcinoma of the kidney presenting with multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma-like features.	Reported is the case of a 17-year-old girl with a multicystic tumor in the middle of the right kidney. Partial nephrectomy revealed an epithelial neoplasm with multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma pattern. The cells exhibited strong nuclear reactivity for TFE3 protein and supported the diagnosis of Xp11 translocation carcinoma of the kidney. A similar case has not been found in the literature. The example emphasizes the high index of suspicion needed for an accurate diagnosis of renal carcinomas.
EPA use of in vivo germ cell mutagenicity data.	The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) provides the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Toxic Substances (EPA, OTS) with the authority to regulate chemical use by requiring testing and use restrictions as appropriate to protect human health. Regulation on the basis of heritable mutation induction is specifically mentioned in the Test Rule section of the law and has also been pursued for new chemical substances. A tiered scheme of mutagenicity testing has been employed and recently revised to assess mutagenicity hazard. In vivo assay systems play key roles at all three levels in the scheme, beginning with the first level of determining intrinsic mutagenicity hazard. Once intrinsic mutagenicity has been identified, the revised scheme requires an assay or assays to assess chemical interaction with gonadal DNA. Finally, the scheme contains tests that permit risk assessment for a chemical. The recently-revised Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP) mutagenicity testing requirements closely parallel those of OTS.
Forty-eight new cases with infertility due to balanced chromosomal rearrangements: detailed molecular cytogenetic analysis of the 90 involved breakpoints.	A molecular cytogenetic study was performed on 48 infertile patients who were identified as carriers of balanced translocations (40 cases), inversions (6 cases) or insertions (2 cases) by means of banding cytogenetics. Cases with a Robertsonian translocation or pericentric inversion 2 or 9 were not included. In summary, 100 break-events occurred in these patients, and 90 different chromosomal regions were involved. Thus, this study confirmed the presence of abnormal karyotypes in a subgroup of patients seeking infertility treatment. Breaks were demonstrated to appear preferentially in GTG-light bands in these patients. Furthermore, the observed breakpoints were associated with genomic regions prone to instability due to the presence of segmental duplications. Nonetheless, further detailed molecular analysis will be necessary in the future to characterize the mechanisms and genetic basis for this phenomenon.
Promoter methylation of PARG1, a novel candidate tumor suppressor gene in mantle-cell lymphomas.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), a mature B-cell neoplasm, is genetically characterized by the translocation t(11;14)(q13;q32). However, secondary alterations are required for malignant transformation. The identification of inactivated tumor suppressor genes contributing to the development of MCL may lead to further elucidation of the biology of this disease and help to identify novel targets for therapy.
Translocations and mutations involving the nucleophosmin (NPM1) gene in lymphomas and leukemias.	Nucleophosmin (NPM) is a ubiquitously expressed nucleolar phoshoprotein which shuttles continuously between the nucleus and cytoplasm. Many findings have revealed a complex scenario of NPM functions and interactions, pointing to proliferative and growth-suppressive roles of this molecule. The gene NPM1 that encodes for nucleophosmin (NPM1) is translocated or mutated in various lymphomas and leukemias, forming fusion proteins (NPM-ALK, NPM-RARalpha, NPM-MLF1) or NPM mutant products. Here, we review the structure and functions of NPM, as well as the biological, clinical and pathological features of human hematologic malignancies with NPM1 gene alterations. NPM-ALK indentifies a new category of T/Null lymphomas with distinctive molecular and clinico-pathological features, that is going to be included as a novel disease entity (ALK+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma) in the new WHO classification of lymphoid neoplasms. NPM1 mutations occur specifically in about 30% of adult de novo AML and cause aberrant cytoplasmic expression of NPM (hence the term NPMc+ AML). NPMc+ AML associates with normal karyotpe, and shows wide morphological spectrum, multilineage involvement, a unique gene expression signature, a high frequency of FLT3-internal tandem duplications, and distinctive clinical and prognostic features. The availability of specific antibodies and molecular techniques for the detection of NPM1 gene alterations has an enormous impact in the biological study diagnosis, prognostic stratification, and monitoring of minimal residual disease of various lymphomas and leukemias. The discovery of NPM1 gene alterations also represents the rationale basis for development of molecular targeted drugs.
Effect of histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid on progenitor cells of acute myeloid leukemia.	Histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) was recently shown to enhance proliferation and self-renewal of normal hematopoietic stem cells, raising the possibility that VPA may also support growth of leukemic progenitor cells (LPC). Here, VPA maintains a significantly higher proportion of CD34+ LPC and colony forming units compared to control cultures in six AML samples, but selectively reduces leukemic cell numbers in another AML sample with expression of AML1/ETO. Our data suggest a differential effect of VPA on the small population of AML progenitor cells and the bulk of aberrantly differentiated blasts in the majority of AML samples tested.
Clearance of minimal residual disease after allogeneic stem cell transplantation and the prediction of the clinical outcome of adult patients with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The molecular analysis of minimal residual disease (MRD) may provide information on the risk of recurrence in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The aim of this study was to correlate the kinetics of MRD clearance after allogeneic transplantation with the clinical outcome of adults with ALL.
Cytogenetic study of multiple myeloma]	To investigate the cytogenetic characteristics of multiple myeloma and its relationship with clinical prognosis, 68 cases were collected and chromosome specimens of bone marrow cells were prepared by 24-hour culture, and G-banding technique was used for karyotype analysis. The results showed that the detected chromosome aberration rate was 19.1% (13/68). The abnormal clones existed mosaically with normal clones. Numerous aberrations were manifested by aneuploidy, mainly by hyperdiploidy or hypodiploidy. Structural aberrations involved t (11; 14), chromosome 1 and various kinds of marker chromosomes. Cases which had very complex aberrations revealed poor prognosis. It is concluded that chromosome complex aberration is the mainly cytogenetic characteristics of multiple myeloma, and multiple numerous and structural aberrations are involved. Cytogenetic detection should be performed both at diagnosis and at disease progression so as to evaluate prognosis.
Practical aspects and clinical value of t(14;18) monitoring in peripheral blood of the follicular lymphoma patients]	Evaluation of practical value of monitoring t(14:18) in peripheral blood in follicular lymphoma.
Spontaneous deletions and reciprocal translocations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: influence of ploidy.	Studying spontaneous chromosomal rearrangements throws light on the rules underlying the genome reshaping events occurring in eukaryotic cells, which are part of the evolutionary process. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, translocation and deletion processes have been frequently described in haploids, but little is known so far about these processes at the diploid level. Here we investigated the nature and the frequency of the chromosomal rearrangements occurring at this ploidy level. Using a positive selection screen based on a particular mutated allele of the URA2 gene, spontaneous diploid revertants were selected and analysed. Surprisingly, the diploid state was found to be correlated with a decrease in chromosome rearrangement frequency, along with an increase in the complexity of the rearrangements occurring in the target gene. The presence of short DNA tandem repeat sequences seems to be a key requirement for deletion and reciprocal translocation processes to occur in diploids. After discussing the differences between the haploid and diploid levels, some mechanisms possibly involved in chromosome shortening and arm exchange are suggested.
Construction of 293pT2-P210 cell line enables expression of bcr/abl to be regulated by Tet-off inducing-expression-system]	Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a clonal myeloproliferative disease of transformed hematopoietic progenitor cells. It is now clear that the chimeric bcr/abl P210(bcr/abl) fusion protein, which is generated by the reciprocal translocation t (9; 22), inhibits apoptosis and increase proliferation. P210(bcr/abl) plays a central role in the pathophysiology of CML. The purpose of this study was to construct a cell line model that bcr/abl expression can be regulated by Tet-off inducing-expression-system. The full-length b3a2 bcr/abl cDNA was subcloned into the pTRE2hyg expression vector to construct the pT2-P210 plasmid. 293 cells were firstly transfected with Tet-off plasmid and the clone that the Tet-off system can work effectively after transfected with pTRE2hyg-LUC was selected by luciferase activity assay. The pT2-P210 plasmid was then transfected into the selected clone and cells were then selected for hygromycin B and G418 resistance. The results showed that individual subclones expressing bcr/abl after withdrawing doxycycline were 293pT2-P210 cell line. In conclusion, selected 293pT2-P210 cells are cells that bcr/abl expression can be regulated by Tet-off inducing-expression-system. They are suitable thoroughly to study the function of bcr/abl fusion gene and its signal regulation mechanism.
Detection of t (14; 18) translocation and bcl-2 amplification in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma]	To investigate the role of t (14; 18) chromosomal translocation and bcl-2 amplification in classification, clinical staging and prognostic evaluation of diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
Evaluation of "increased" hemoglobin in the JAK2 mutations era: a diagnostic algorithm based on genetic tests.	Recent discoveries in the molecular pathogenesis of both polycythemia vera (PV) and congenital polycythemia (CP) underline the prospect of a genetic diagnosis in these disorders. At the forefront are the mutually exclusive exon 14 (JAK2V617F) and exon 12 JAK2 mutations that are almost always present in PV but not in polycythemias of other causes. Similarly, the molecular basis of CP is being unraveled, and several cases are now associated with germline mutations involving the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) or erythropoietin receptor (EPOR) genes. Therefore, current diagnostic work-up for acquired polycythemia should start with peripheral blood JAK2 mutation screening, whereas VHL and/or EPOR mutations should be considered when CP is suspected. In all instances, serum erythropoietin measurement provides complementary information; the serum erythropoietin level is expected to be decreased in PV regardless of JAK2 mutation status, increased in VHL mutation-associated CP, and decreased or normal in the presence of an EPOR mutation.
Cytogenetic alterations in renal tumors: a study of 38 Southeast Asian patients.	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common cancer of the kidney. Cytogenetic studies of renal cell carcinoma have provided valuable insight into the chromosomal abnormalities involved in the genesis and progression of the disease, and have also helped in the classification of these tumors. Our objectives were to identify nonrandom chromosome abnormalities in renal tumors in a Southeast Asian population and also to determine if they differ from those in Western populations. Structural rearrangements of 3p were specific for clear cell RCC, with the most consistent structural rearrangement being a translocation between 3p13 and 5q22. Gains of chromosomes 7 and 17 were observed in three and two cases of papillary RCC, respectively. All male patients with papillary RCC were noted to have loss of the Y chromosome. Gains of chromosomes 3 and 7, and structural aberration of chromosome 3, were observed in patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis (TCC). Chromosomal abnormalities in clear cell RCC, papillary RCC, and TCC did not differ between the Southeast Asian and Western populations. The aberrations seem to be common sporadic events, both geographically and racially.
Simultaneous translocations of FGFR3/MMSET and CCND1 into two different IGH alleles in multiple myeloma: lack of concurrent activation of both proto-oncogenes.	The simultaneous occurrence of two different translocations affecting both alleles of the IGH gene has rarely been reported in multiple myeloma. In such a case, two different oncogenes might become transcriptionally deregulated. To investigate this hypothesis, we have characterized the plasma cell leukemia cell line SK-MM2 and a primary myeloma both carrying simultaneous IGH-FGFR3/MMSET and IGH-CCND1 fusions as shown by multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization. Remarkably, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that only one of the oncogene loci was transcriptionally upregulated in both instances. Moreover, the upregulated oncogenes differed between both samples. Thus, biallelic IGH translocations might exert different pathogenetic effects in plasma cell disorders.
Techniques for multi-genome synteny analysis to overcome assembly limitations.	Genome scale synteny analysis, the analysis of relative gene-order conservation between species, can provide key insights into evolutionary chromosomal dynamics, rearrangement rates between species, and speciation analysis. With the rapid availability of multiple genomes, there is a need for efficient solutions to aid in comparative syntenic analysis. Current methods rely on homology assessment and multiple alignment based solutions to determine homologs of genetic markers between species and to infer syntenic relationships. One of the primary challenges facing multi-genome syntenic analysis is the uncertainty posed by genome assembly data with un-sequenced gaps and possible assembly errors. Currently, manual intervention is necessary to tune and correct the results of homology assessment and synteny inference. This paper presents a novel automated approach to overcome some of these limitations. It uses a graph based algorithm to infer sub-graphs denoting synteny chains with the objective of choosing the best locations for homologous elements, in the presence of paralogs, in order to maximize synteny. These synteny chains are expanded by merging sub-graphs based on various user defined thresholds for micro-syntenic scrambling. This approach comprehends and accommodates for contig and scaffold gaps in the assembly to determine homologous genetic elements that might either fall in unsequenced assembly gaps or lie on the edges of sequenced segments or on small fragments. Furthermore, it provides an automated solution for breakpoint analysis and a comparative study of chromosomal rearrangements between species. This approach was applied to a comparative study involving Drosophila.melanogaster and Drosophila.pseudoobscura genomes, as an example, and has been useful in analyzing inter-species syntenic relationships.
Soft tissue sarcomas: the role of histology and molecular pathology for differential diagnosis]	Soft tissue sarcomas include a wide spectrum of different entities. The so-called small round blue cell tumors and spindle cell tumors are difficult to classify based solely on conventional histology. To identify different subtypes of tumors special histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques are necessary. Analysis of protein expression by immunohistochemistry provides a helpful tool to investigate the histogenesis of tumors. A basic spectrum of antibodies should be included to study these tumors: Desmin and myogenin (or MyoD1) for skeletal differentiation; S-100, NSE, CD56, and synaptophysin for neural/neuroendocrine differentiation; CD3, CD20, and CD79 alpha for malignant lymphomas; CD34, sm-actin, and beta-catenin for spindle cell tumors; additional antigens, e. g. Ki-67 and p 53, for estimation of proliferation and tumor suppressor gene malfunctions. Nevertheless, the molecular analysis of soft tissue sarcomas is necessary for demonstration of specific translocations or gene defects to specify and proof a diagnosis. For this purpose, RT-PCR for RNA expression analysis of gene fusion transcripts and multi-color FISH for analysis of chromosomal rearrangements are used. Further investigations, using DNA microrrays may help to subclassify such tumors, with respect to prognosis or prediction of therapeutic response.
A study of chromosome 11p13 translocations involving TCR beta and TCR delta in human T cell leukaemia.	A frequent site of translocation damage in human T-ALL has been localized to a specific region of chromosome band 11p13. Five new T-ALL cases are described which break in the major T-ALLbcr region of 11p13, two involving a novel translocation t(7;11)(q35;p13), with breakage at the T cell receptor (TCR) beta gene from 7q35, and three involving TCR delta from 14q11 in the more common t(11;14)(p13;q11). Analysis of the mechanism of one T-ALLbcr/TCR beta translocation and a previously described t(11;14)(p13;q11) was conducted by genomic cloning of translocation breakpoints, using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Both seem to have occurred by recombinase error, but only the t(7;11) showed sequence-specific joining. Nonetheless recombinase mediation of the t(11;14) is implied by the presence of N-region addition (a hallmark of recombinase joins) on both derivative chromosomes. These observations reinforce the view that translocations in the T-ALLbcr region of chromosome 11p13 are a major lesion in human T-ALL. In addition, these can occur by mimicry of VDJ joining, but sequence specificity is not obligatory.
Adriamycin-induced sister chromatid exchange and chromosomal aberrations in Down's syndrome lymphocytes.	Blood samples from six Down's syndrome (DS) and six age- and sex-matched controls were cultured for 72 h in the presence of BrdUrd. Lymphocytes were then analysed at their second mitosis for sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and at their first mitosis for chromosome aberrations. Treatment with adriamycin (30 and 60 ng) showed a significant increase in frequency of SCE and chromosome aberrations in DS lymphocytes compared to normal lymphocytes at initiation of culture. Cells treated with adriamycin (ADR) for the last 24 h also showed a significant increase in SCE in DS lymphocytes compared to normal lymphocytes. A significant increase in chromatid-type aberrations was also recorded in DS lymphocytes after both treatments cultured for the last 24 h.
Demonstration of the genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome of testicular germ cell tumors and identification of further chromosome 12 aberrations by competitive in situ hybridization.	The recently developed competitive in situ hybridization (CISH) strategy was applied to the analysis of chromosome 12 aberrations in testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs). DNAs from two rodent-human somatic cell hybrids, containing either a normal chromosome 12 or the p arm of chromosome 12 as their unique human material, were used as probes. Our results demonstrate a genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome in TGCTs. Moreover, variant markers were identified representing translocation products that also involve chromosome 12.
Translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus.	Acute promyelocytic leukemias (APLs) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [t(15;17)]. We report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. Nucleotide sequencing of the 15;17 cross-over junction on 15q+ showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron, 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon II. Such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal RAR alpha mRNA and protein. Southern blot analysis of a number of APLs with chromosome 15- and 17-derived DNA probes revealed similar 15;17 recombinations in the majority of other APLs. Our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of APL.
RAR-alpha gene rearrangements as a genetic marker for diagnosis and monitoring in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	Acute promyelocytic leukemias (APLs) are characterized by a translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17. The translocation breakpoints have recently been identified and shown to involve the RAR-alpha gene on 17 and myl on 15. Here we report Southern blotting analysis of 26 APLs, including cases with normal karyotypes and atypical morphology, which showed RAR-alpha rearrangements in 92% cases, myl rearrangements in 73%, and either RAR-alpha or myl rearrangements in 100%. Despite a negative clinical and morphologic picture, DNA rearrangement analysis showed that neoplastic promyelocytes persisted in the bone marrow of two patients sampled after induction chemotherapy. Therefore, the RAR-alpha and myl rearrangements provide molecular markers for accurately diagnosing APLs and monitoring the course of the disease during and after chemotherapy.
Chromosome recombination and defective genome segregation induced in Chinese hamster cells by the topoisomerase II inhibitor VM-26.	We found that 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxinthenylidene-beta-D-glucoside (VM-26; Teniposide), which specifically inhibits the enzyme DNA topoisomerase II, induces the formation of quadriradial chromosomes in Chinese hamster ovary cells. VM-26 traps topoisomerase II molecules when they are covalently integrated into DNA during their reaction. Quadriradial chromosomes are formed by reciprocal exchange of double-stranded DNA between single chromatids of two different chromosomes. Using synchronised cells, we found that they were formed after a single replication cycle in the presence of VM-26 at a low concentration (0.008 micro M), which does not affect DNA replication, and occurred in 50% of the mitotic cells at a concentration of 0.16 micro M. They were also formed when VM-26 was present for only 1.5 h before mitosis, after the completion of S-phase DNA replication. Chromatids bearing a translocated segment of another chromatid, which were derived from recombined chromosomes, were observed in late metaphase cells. Segregation of the daughter genomes was defective in many mitotic cells, probably because chromatids with two or no centromeres and kinetochores, formed from chromosomes recombined between their centromeres, could not be segregated. In the light of evidence that topoisomerase II molecules covalently integrated in DNA are trapped and therefore more abundant in the presence of VM-26, and that this enzyme can effect recombination of double-stranded DNA in vitro, we interpret these observations as evidence that topoisomerase II can mediate chromosome recombination in vivo.
Non-Hodgkins lymphoma presenting with proptosis in an infant.	We describe a 9-week-old infant with rapidly progressive proptosis secondary to a rare orbital neoplasm, a variety of non-Hodgkins lymphoma.
A novel fusion 5'AFF3/3'BCL2 originated from a t(2;18)(q11.2;q21.33) translocation in follicular lymphoma.	Follicular lymphoma is the second most frequent type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in adults. The basic molecular defect consists of the t(14;18)(q32;q21) translocation, juxtaposing the B-cell lymphoma protein 2 gene BCL2 to the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus IGH@, and leading to the antiapoptotic BCL2 protein overproduction. Variations in the t(14;18) are rare and can be classified into two categories: (i) simple variants, involving chromosomes 18 and 2, or 22, in which the fusion partner of BCL2 is the light-chain IGK@ or IGL@; (ii) complex variant translocations occurring among chromosomes 14, 18 and other chromosomes. We report a follicular lymphoma case showing BCL2 overexpression, detected by immunohistochemistry and real-time quantitative PCR, consequently to the formation of a novel fusion gene between the 5' of the lymphoid nuclear transcriptional activator gene AFF3 at 2q11.2, and the 3' of BCL2. This case shows evidence, for the first time, of BCL2 overexpression consequently to the fusion of BCL2 to a non-IG partner locus.
Mapping of 5q35 chromosomal rearrangements within a genomically unstable region.	Recent molecular studies of breakpoints of recurrent chromosome rearrangements revealed the role of genomic architecture in their formation. In particular, segmental duplications representing blocks of >1 kb with >90% sequence homology were shown to mediate non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR). However, the occurrence of the majority of newly detected submicroscopic imbalances cannot be explained by the presence of segmental duplications. Therefore, further studies are needed to investigate whether architectural features other than segmental duplications mediate these rearrangements.
Molecular analysis of t(15;17) genomic breakpoints in secondary acute promyelocytic leukemia arising after treatment of multiple sclerosis.	Therapy-related acute promyelocytic leukemia (t-APL) with t(15;17) translocation is a well-recognized complication of cancer treatment with agents targeting topoisomerase II. However, cases are emerging after mitoxantrone therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS). Analysis of 12 cases of mitoxantrone-related t-APL in MS patients revealed an altered distribution of chromosome 15 breakpoints versus de novo APL, biased toward disruption within PML intron 6 (11 of 12, 92% vs 622 of 1022, 61%: P = .035). Despite this intron spanning approximately 1 kb, breakpoints in 5 mitoxantrone-treated patients fell within an 8-bp region (1482-9) corresponding to the "hotspot" previously reported in t-APL, complicating mitoxantrone-containing breast cancer therapy. Another shared breakpoint was identified within the approximately 17-kb RARA intron 2 involving 2 t-APL cases arising after mitoxantrone treatment for MS and breast cancer, respectively. Analysis of PML and RARA genomic breakpoints in functional assays in 4 cases, including the shared RARA intron 2 breakpoint at 14 446-49, confirmed each to be preferential sites of topoisomerase IIalpha-mediated DNA cleavage in the presence of mitoxantrone. This study further supports the presence of preferential sites of DNA damage induced by mitoxantrone in PML and RARA genes that may underlie the propensity to develop this subtype of leukemia after exposure to this agent.
Transcriptional repression of the RUNX3/AML2 gene by the t(8;21) and inv(16) fusion proteins in acute myeloid leukemia.	RUNX3/AML2 is a Runt domain transcription factor like RUNX1/AML1 and RUNX2/AML3. Regulated by 2 promoters P1 and P2, RUNX3 is frequently inactivated by P2 methylation in solid tumors. Growing evidence has suggested a role of this transcription factor in hematopoiesis. However, genetic alterations have not been reported in blood cancers. In this study on 73 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients (44 children and 29 adults), we first showed that high RUNX3 expression among childhood AML was associated with a shortened event-free survival, and RUNX3 was significantly underexpressed in the prognostically favorable subgroup of AML with the t(8;21) and inv(16) translocations. We further demonstrated that this RUNX3 repression was mediated not by P2 methylation, but RUNX1-ETO and CBFbeta-MYH11, the fusion products of t(8;21) and inv(16), via a novel transcriptional mechanism that acts directly or indirectly in collaboration with RUNX1, on 2 conserved RUNX binding sites in the P1 promoter. In in vitro studies, ectopically expressed RUNX1-ETO and CBFbeta-MYH11 also inhibited endogenous RUNX3 expression. Taken together, RUNX3 was the first transcriptional target found to be commonly repressed by the t(8;21) and inv(16) fusion proteins and might have an important role in core-binding factor AML.
Multiple recurrent chromosomal breakpoints in mantle cell lymphoma revealed by a combination of molecular cytogenetic techniques.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is genetically characterized by 11q13 translocations leading to the overexpression of CCND1, and additional secondary genomic alterations that may be important in the progression of this disease. We have analyzed 22 MCL cases and 10 MCL cell lines using multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization (M-FISH), FISH, and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). The 19 cases with abnormal karyotype showed the t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation and, additionally, 89% of cases showed both numerical (n = 58) and structural (n = 77) aberrations. All but one MCL cell line showed t(11;14) and structural and numerical alterations in highly complex karyotypes. Besides 11 and 14, the most commonly rearranged chromosomes were 1, 8, and 10 in the tumors and 1, 8, and 9 in the cell lines. No recurrent translocations other than the t(11;14) were identified. However, we identified 17 recurrent breakpoints, the most frequent being 1p22 and 8p11, each observed in four cases and two cell lines. Interestingly, five tumors and four cell lines displayed a complex t(11;14), cryptic in one case and two cell lines, preferentially involving chromosome 8. In typical MCL, ATM gene deletions were significantly associated with a high number of structural and numerical alterations. In conclusion, MCL does not have recurrent translocations other than t(11;14), but shows recurrent chromosomal breakpoints. Furthermore, most MCL harbor complex karyotypes with a high number of both structural and numerical alterations affecting several common breakpoints, leading to various balanced and unbalanced translocations.
Molecular cytogenetic characterization of alien introgressions with gene Fhb3 for resistance to Fusarium head blight disease of wheat.	Fusarium head blight (FHB) resistance was identified in the alien species Leymus racemosus, and wheat-Leymus introgression lines with FHB resistance were reported previously. Detailed molecular cytogenetic analysis of alien introgressions T01, T09, and T14 and the mapping of Fhb3, a new gene for FHB resistance, are reported here. The introgression line T09 had an unknown wheat-Leymus translocation chromosome. A total of 36 RFLP markers selected from the seven homoeologous groups of wheat were used to characterize T09 and determine the homoeologous relationship of the introgressed Leymus chromosome with wheat. Only short arm markers for group 7 detected Leymus-specific fragments in T09, whereas 7AS-specific RFLP fragments were missing. C-banding and genomic in situ hybridization results indicated that T09 has a compensating Robertsonian translocation T7AL.7Lr#1S involving the long arm of wheat chromosome 7A and the short arm of Leymus chromosome 7Lr#1 substituting for chromosome arm 7AS of wheat. Introgression lines T01 (2n = 44) and T14 (2n = 44) each had two pairs of independent translocation chromosomes. T01 had T4BS.4BL-7Lr#1S + T4BL-7Lr#1S.5Lr#1S. T14 had T6BS.6BL-7Lr#1S + T6BL.5Lr#1S. These translocations were recovered in the progeny of the irradiated line Lr#1 (T5Lr#1S.7Lr#1S). The three translocation lines, T01, T09, and T14, and the disomic addition 7Lr#1 were consistently resistant to FHB in greenhouse point-inoculation experiments, whereas the disomic addition 5Lr#1 was susceptible. The data indicated that at least one novel FHB resistance gene from Leymus, designated Fhb3, resides in the distal region of the short arm of chromosome 7Lr#1, because the resistant translocation lines share a common distal segment of 7Lr#1S. Three PCR-based markers, BE586744-STS, BE404728-STS, and BE586111-STS, specific for 7Lr#1S were developed to expedite marker-assisted selection in breeding programs.
Gross deletions and translocations in human genetic disease.	Translocations and gross deletions constitute an important cause of both cancer and inherited disease. Such gene rearrangements are non-randomly distributed in the human genome as a consequence of selection for growth advantage and/or the inherent potential of some DNA sequences to be frequently involved in breakage and recombination. Chromosomal rearrangements are generated by a variety of recombinational processes, each characterised by mechanism-specific DNA sequence features. Various types of recombinogenic motifs have been shown to promote non-homologous end joining whilst direct repeats may mediate homologous recombination. In addition, repetitive sequence elements can facilitate the formation of secondary structure between DNA ends at translocation or gross deletion breakpoints, and in so doing, may play a role in illegitimate recombination. Although results from DNA breakpoint studies are broadly consistent with a role for homologous unequal recombination in deletion mutagenesis and a role for non-homologous recombination in the generation of translocations, homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining are unlikely to be mutually exclusive mechanisms. Thus, chromosomal rearrangements will often represent the net result of multiple highly complex molecular interactions that are not always readily explicable.
Aggressive CD5-positive B-cell lymphoma after remission of CD5-negative follicular lymphoma with distinct immunoglobulin heavy chain rearrangement and translocation.	We report a unique, aggressive B-cell lymphoma that developed after the long-term remission of follicular lymphoma (FL). FL cells were negative for CD5, whereas aggressive lymphoma cells were positive for CD5. In FL, one immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IGH) allele underwent V/D/J recombination and another t(14;18)(q32;q21). In aggressive lymphoma, one IGH allele underwent D/J recombination and another translocation, but not t(14;18)(q32;q21). An aggressive lymphoma-specific D/J sequence was detected in FL tissue. Our results indicated that the two tumors arose from distinct B cells and that they existed concurrently in the same lymph node.
Cryptic and partial deletions of PRDM16 and RUNX1 without t(1;21)(p36;q22) and/or RUNX1-PRDM16 fusion in a case of progressive chronic myeloid leukemia: a complex chromosomal rearrangement of underestimated frequency in disease progression?	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by the presence in leukemic stem cells of the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) and the formation of the BCR-ABL1 fusion. Untreated, the disease progresses to accelerate phase and blast crisis in which hematopoietic differentiation has become arrested. CML progression is frequently associated with cytogenetic evidence of clonal evolution, defined as additional chromosomal aberrations. We here report a CML resistant to tyrosine kinase inhibitors that rapidly progressed to blastic phase. At this time, array CGH performed on CD34(+) cells revealed cryptic partial deletions of both PRDM16 and RUNX1 and duplication of the der(21) chromosome. These genomic rearrangements were confirmed by FISH with probes targeting the deletion on chromosome 21 (24 kb), and with BAC probes flanking the deletion on 1p36 (220 kb). However, no cryptic t(1;21)(p36;q22) and/or RUNX1-PRDM16 were detected, suggesting that these deletions are the residual hallmarks of a more complex mechanism of chromosomal rearrangement, as indicated by the additional inversion of the region bounded by 1p36.32 and 1p36.12 breaks. At the molecular level, these abnormalities lead to the overexpression of the PR-domain negative oncogenic isoform of PRDM16, associated with two deleted copies within the runt domain of C-teminal aberrant RUNX1. These events are not detectable by conventional cytogenetic and molecular strategies, and may be of underestimated frequency in disease progression.
The complex genomic profile of ETV6-RUNX1 positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia highlights a recurrent deletion of TBL1XR1.	The ETV6-RUNX1 fusion is the molecular consequence of the t(12;21)(p13;q22) seen in approximately 25% of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Studies have shown that the fusion alone is insufficient for the initiation of leukemia; additional genetic changes are required. Genomic profiling identified copy number alterations at high frequencies in these patients. Focal deletions of TBL1XR1 were observed in 15% of cases; 3 patients exhibited deletions distal to the gene. Fluorescence in situ hybridization confirmed these deletions and quantitative RT-PCR showed that the TBL1XR1 gene was significantly under-expressed. TBL1XR1 is a key component of the SMRT and N-CoR compressor complexes, which control hormone-receptor mediated gene expression. Differential expression of the retinoic acid target genes, RARB, CRABP1, and CRABP2, indicated that deletion of TBL1XR1 compromised the function of SMRT/N-CoR in the appropriate control of gene expression. This study identifies deletions of TBL1XR1 as a recurrent abnormality in ETV6-RUNX1 positive ALL. We provide evidence that implicates this deletion in the inappropriate control of gene expression in these patients. The target of the interaction between TBL1XR1 and the signaling pathways described here may be exploited in cancer therapy.
Detection of gene fusions in acute leukemia using bead microarrays.	This unit describes a method for the rapid and simultaneous detection of hybrid mRNAs (hRNA; also known as gene fusions, RNA fusions, or chimeric RNA), resulting from recurrent chromosome translocations or inversions in acute leukemia. The principal components of the assay are a multiplex RT-PCR, which simultaneously amplifies any of a number of possible hRNA targets, and a liquid bead microarray (LBMA), which is capable of unambiguously identifying the amplified hRNA. The entire procedure from RNA extraction to display of results can be broken into four steps: (1) conjugated-microsphere and LBMA manufacture and quality control, (2) cDNA synthesis, (3) multiplex PCR, and (4) hybridization of multiplex PCR products to the hRNA-detecting LBMA and assay read-out on a flow cytometer. The assay is designed to detect the most common risk-stratifying translocation in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia, satisfying the demand for inclusion of genetic data in the diagnosis of acute leukemia as predicated by the current WHO classification of hematopoietic and lymphoid neoplasms.
Chromosome segmental dosage analysis of maize morphogenesis using B-A-A translocations.	The B-A-A translocations have enabled us to simultaneously assess the possible dosage-sensitive interactions of two nonhomologous chromosome segments in affecting maize plant development. Maize B-A-A translocations contain segments of two nonhomologous essential A chromosomes in tandem arrangement attached to a segment of the long arm of a supernumerary B chromosome. By utilizing the frequent nondisjunction of the B centromere at the second pollen mitosis we produced plants containing an extra copy of the two A chromosome segments. We compared these hyperploid plants with nonhyperploid plants by measuring leaf width, plant height, ear height, internode length, stalk circumference, leaf length, and tassel-branch number in 20 paired families that involved one of the chromosome arms 1S, 1L, 4L, 5S, and 10L. One or more of the seven measured traits displayed dosage sensitivity among 17 of the 20 B-A-A translocations, which included the involvement of chromosome arms 2L, 3L, 5L, 6L, and 7L. The most obvious effect of an increased dosage of the B-A-A translocation was a significant decrease in the traits in the hyperploid plants. These effects may be either the additive effects of hyperploidy for the two chromosome segments or a result of gene interaction between them.
Reciprocal translocations: tracing their meiotic behavior.	Segregation and interchromosomal effect studies have been performed in reciprocal translocation carriers by sperm-fluorescent in situ hybridization reporting a great heterogeneity. The divergences have been attributed to the particular cytogenetic characteristics of each rearrangement. Nevertheless, there is no consensus in the factors that are responsible for such variability. The purpose of this study was to determine which cytogenetic features influence in the segregation and interchromosomal effect outcome.
Distinct microRNA expression profiles in acute myeloid leukemia with common translocations.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are postulated to be important regulators in cancers. Here, we report a genome-wide miRNA expression analysis in 52 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) samples with common translocations, including t(8;21)/AML1(RUNX1)-ETO(RUNX1T1), inv(16)/CBFB-MYH11, t(15;17)/PML-RARA, and MLL rearrangements. Distinct miRNA expression patterns were observed for t(15;17), MLL rearrangements, and core-binding factor (CBF) AMLs including both t(8;21) and inv(16) samples. Expression signatures of a minimum of two (i.e., miR-126/126*), three (i.e., miR-224, miR-368, and miR-382), and seven (miR-17-5p and miR-20a, plus the aforementioned five) miRNAs could accurately discriminate CBF, t(15;17), and MLL-rearrangement AMLs, respectively, from each other. We further showed that the elevated expression of miR-126/126* in CBF AMLs was associated with promoter demethylation but not with amplification or mutation of the genomic locus. Our gain- and loss-of-function experiments showed that miR-126/126* inhibited apoptosis and increased the viability of AML cells and enhanced the colony-forming ability of mouse normal bone marrow progenitor cells alone and particularly, in cooperation with AML1-ETO, likely through targeting Polo-like kinase 2 (PLK2), a tumor suppressor. Our results demonstrate that specific alterations in miRNA expression distinguish AMLs with common translocations and imply that the deregulation of specific miRNAs may play a role in the development of leukemia with these associated genetic rearrangements.
Efficacy of array comparative genomic hybridization in a fetus with an inherited apparently balanced translocation: A case report.	When one parent is discovered to have the same apparently balanced genetic rearrangement as that identified at prenatal diagnosis, many couples are advised to seek a more precise prenatal diagnosis for reassurance. A 25-year-old translocation carrier, who carried a fetus with partial trisomy 3q and partial monosomy 9p with omphalocele in a previous pregnancy, showed the same apparently balanced translocation at chorionic villus sampling. A truly balanced translocation without cryptic imbalances for the fetus was detected using array comparative genomic hybridization. For cryptic unbalanced defects, in which an apparently balanced translocation has been transmitted from a normal parent to a child with a phenotypic abnormality, the use of array comparative genomic hybridization to assess the presence of cryptic aberrations in the fetus combines the speed of DNA analysis with a comprehensive scan for submicroscopic genomic abnormalities.
Sequential Ewing's sarcoma and osteosarcoma.	The sequential occurrence of two primary bone tumors, Ewing's sarcoma and osteosarcoma in the same patient at two different anatomical sites 5 years apart is rare. We report a case of 12-year-old boy who after treatment for Ewing's sarcoma of proximal fibula subsequently presented, 4 years later, with a high-grade fibroblastic osteosarcoma of the proximal humerus. The patient was also found to have a rare gene tranlocation t (7;22) instead of the more common t (11;22).
Clinical and cytogenetics studies on acute myeloid leukemia with abnormality of chromosome 11]	To investigate the incidence of chromosome 11 abnormality in acute myeloid leukemia and its relationship with the clinical aspects and prognosis.
Follicular lymphoma with marked infiltration of eosinophils.	Eosinophilia and tissue infiltration by eosinophils are frequent findings in Hodgkin lymphoma, but they are extremely rare in B-cell lymphoma. Reported herein is a case of follicular lymphoma with extensive lymph node infiltration by eosinophils. The patient was a 71-year-old woman who had a mass in the vicinity of the pancreas found on routine ultrasonography. Subsequent CT indicated several enlarged abdominal lymph nodes, although superficial lymph nodes were not palpable. Two swollen mesenteric lymph nodes were excised to determine the cause of the lymphadenopathy. Histology indicated extensive infiltration of numerous eosinophils to the interfollicular area, especially in the dilated sinuses. The lymphoid follicles were relatively small, had inconspicuous germinal centers, and were scattered between dilated sinuses. Based on the histology, immunohistochemistry, and chromosomal abnormality, a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma was made. Expression of interleukin-3 (IL-3), IL-5, eotaxin, eotaxin-2, and eotaxin-3 was investigated on reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of the lymph node tissue, but none of the mRNA expression levels were elevated. This was a unique case of follicular lymphoma with extensive eosinophil infiltration, and to the best of the authors' knowledge this is the first such case ever reported.
Molecular abnormalities in Ewing's sarcoma.	Ewing's sarcoma is one of the few solid tumors for which the underlying molecular genetic abnormality has been described: rearrangement of the EWS gene on chromosome 22q12 with an ETS gene family member. These translocations define the Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT) and provide a valuable tool for their accurate and unequivocal diagnosis. They also represent ideal targets for the development of tumor-specific therapeutics. Although secondary abnormalities occur in over 80% of primary ESFT the clinical utility of these is currently unclear. However, abnormalities in genes that regulate the G(1)/S checkpoint are frequently described and may be important in predicting outcome and response. Increased understanding of the molecular events that arise in ESFT and their role in the development and maintenance of the malignant phenotype will inform the improved stratification of patients for therapy and identify targets and pathways for the design of more effective cancer therapeutics.
A comparison of gene expression profiles between primary human AML cells and AML cell line.	In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), hematologic malignancies are characterized by recurring chromosomal abnormalities. Chromosome translocation t(9;11)(p22;q23) is one of the most common genetic aberrations and results in the formation of the MLL-AF9 fusion gene that functions as a facilitator of cell growth directly. In order to study this type of AML, the cell lines with cytogenetically diagnosed t(9;11)(p22;q23), such as Mono Mac 6 (MM6), have been widely used. To examine whether there is any difference in gene expression between the primary human t(9;11) AML cells and MM6 cell line, genome-wide transcriptome analysis was performed on MM6 cell line using SAGE and the results were compared to the profile of primary human t(9;11) AML cells. 884 transcripts which were alternatively expressed between MM6 cells and primary human t(9;11) cells were identified through statistical analysis (P < 0.05) and 4-fold expression change. Of these transcripts, 830 (94%) matched to known genes or EST were classified by functional categories (http://david.abcc.ncifcrf.gov/). The majority of alternatively expressed genes in MM6 were involved in biosynthetic and metabolic processes, but HRAS, a protein that is known to be associated with leukemogenesis, was expressed only in MM6 cells and several other genes involved in Erk1/Erk2 MAPK pathway were also over-expressed in MM6. Therefore, since MM6 cell line has a similar expression profile to primary human t(9;11) AML in general and expresses uniquely a strong Erk1/Erk2 MAPK pathway including HRAS, it can be used as a model for HRAS-positive t(9;11) AML.
Phylogenetic position of the saola (Pseudoryx nghetinhensis) inferred from cytogenetic analysis of eleven species of Bovidae.	Previous morphological and molecular analyses failed to resolve the phylogenetic position of the critically endangered saola (Pseudoryx nghetinhensis) with respect to its placement in Bovina (cattle, bison, and yak) or Bubalina (Asian and African buffaloes). In the present study, G- and C-banding, Ag-staining and FISH with 28S and telomeric probes was undertaken for 17 bovid species. An analysis of these data allowed us to identify 49 structural rearrangements that included autosomes, gonosomes and 17 different NOR sites. The combined data set was subjected to a cladistic analysis aimed at: (i) providing new insights on phylogenetic relationships of the saola and other species within the subfamily Bovinae, and (ii) testing the suitability of different classes of chromosomal characters for phylogenetic reconstruction of the family Bovidae. The study revealed that nucleolar organizing regions (NORs) are phylogenetically informative. It was shown that at least one, or sometimes two of these characters punctuate divergences that include nodes that are the most basal in the tree, to those that are the most recent. In this context, the shared presence of three NORs in saola and species of Syncerus and Bubalus strongly suggests the saola's placement within the subtribe Bubalina. This contrasts with Robertsonian rearrangements which are informative only at the generic level. These findings suggest that NORs are an important and frequently overlooked source of additional phylogenetic information within the Bovidae that may also have applicability at higher taxonomic levels, possibly even for Pecora.
The gene encoding the oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein is embedded within the neurofibromatosis type 1 gene.	In the course of efforts to identify the neurofibromatosis type 1 gene (NF1), three genes were found embedded within an intron of NF1. The cDNA sequence of one of these genes (OMGP) encodes oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein. OMGP spans at least 2.7 kb of genomic DNA, and it maps within 4 kb of the breakpoint of a balanced chromosomal translocation carried by an individual with NF1. OMGP is similar in genomic structure to two other expressed genes, EVI2A and EVI2B, which lie approximately 20 and 5 kb telomeric of the OMGP locus, respectively. All three genes have the same transcriptional orientation and are contained within one intron of NF1, which is transcribed off the opposite strand. Whether altered expression of OMGP might play a role in the clinical heterogeneity of NF1 is as yet unclear.
A variant translocation t(2;18) in follicular lymphoma involves the 5' end of bcl-2 and Ig kappa light chain gene.	We have examined three cases of human lymphoma bearing a t(2;18)(p11;q21) chromosome translocation. The bcl-2 gene appeared to be rearranged in all three cases and breakpoints were clustered in the 5' flanking region of the gene. In all three cases, bcl-2 was juxtaposed to J segments of the Ig kappa gene. This juxtaposition of the bcl-2 and Ig kappa genes is very similar to the variant chromosome translocations of Burkitt lymphoma that juxtapose the c-myc locus to IgL genes.
bcl-1 rearrangement. Frequency and clinical significance among B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	The authors investigated the structural organization of the bcl-1 locus, a putative oncogene associated with reciprocal chromosomal translocation t(11;14), by Southern blot hybridization analysis and its frequency, distribution, and prognostic significance in a panel of 156 clinically and pathologically well-defined B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLLs) and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs). The authors detected bcl-1 rearrangements in only 2 of 42 CLLs and 4 of 114 NHLs, specifically 3 of 29 diffuse small lymphocytic and 1 of 10 diffuse small cleaved cell and none of 5 diffuse intermediate lymphocytic, 13 follicular predominantly small cleaved, 17 follicular mixed small cleaved and large cell, 4 diffuse mixed small and large cell, 26 diffuse large cell, and 10 diffuse small noncleaved cell lymphomas. None of seven cases of Rai stage III or IV CLL or seven diffuse large cell lymphomas occurring as Richter's syndrome exhibited bcl-1 rearrangements. In conclusion, the bcl-1 locus rearranges in only about 4% of B-cell CLLs and NHLs, is predominantly rearranged in low-grade B-cell neoplasms, and does not appear to be preferentially associated with those occasional CLLs and low-grade NHLs displaying clinical aggressiveness, advanced clinical stage, or large cell transformation (Richter's syndrome). Therefore the demonstration of bcl-1 rearrangement does not appear to have clinically useful prognostic significance.
Translocation (14;19) in acute biphenotypic leukemia.	Translocation (14;19)(q32;q13.1) is an acquired chromosomal rearrangement that has been associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B-cell phenotype frequently progressing to lymphoma. Molecular analysis suggests that the translocation involves the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene on chromosome 14 and the BCL3 oncogene on chromosome 19. We present the first case of t(14;19) in a patient with acute leukemia. Correlation of detailed cytogenetic and molecular genetic studies, cell surface marker analysis, cytochemistry, and electron microscopy indicated that the leukemic cells were biophenotypic, with characteristics consistent with both myeloid and B-lineage lymphoid differentiation.
The NF1 translocation breakpoint region.	The genetic locus that harbors mutation(s) responsible for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is on chromosome 17, within band q11.2. We have mapped the human homologue of a murine gene (Evi-2) that is implicated in myeloid tumors, to a location between two NF1 translocation breakpoints on chromosome 17. Sequencing studies predict that EVI2 is a membrane protein that may complex with itself and/or other proteins within the membrane, perhaps to function as part of a cell-surface receptor. In the course of these studies we have also identified three other transcripts (classes of cDNAs) from the NF1 region. Two of them map between the NF1 translocation breakpoints; the remaining transcript maps just outside this region. The map location implicates these four genes as possible candidates for harboring NF1 mutations.
Suppression of the translocated myc gene and expression of intracisternal A-particle genes in tumorigenic and non-tumorigenic hybrids between murine myeloma and normal fibroblasts.	We have studied the tumorigenic potential of a series of independent intraspecies hybrid clones derived from fusion of murine myeloma (BALB/c) and normal fibroblasts (C3H). All of these hybrids grew as adherent cells and thus resembled the fibroblast phenotype. As judged by chromosome enumeration, these hybrids appear to retain the full complement of their parental cells. Three out of 4 hybrids tested were able to form colonies in soft agar and to grow as tumors in either nude or (BALB/c x C3H) F1 mice, albeit at a reduced rate. The 4th hybrid did not grow in agar, was non-tumorigenic and may have had a 2:1 fibroblast to myeloma genomic equivalence ratio. In contrast to the parental myeloma cells, all the hybrids exhibited restricted growth rates in serum-free medium. As in our previous sets of hybrids formed between myeloma and L-cells, expression of the Ig genes was inhibited in the new hybrids and the derived tumors. The constitutive expression of the translocated myc gene in the myeloma parental cells was decreased in the hybrids and in all their derived tumors. In contrast, all of the hybrid cell lines and the tumors express high levels of the intracisternal A particle mRNAs. Our results show that the tumorigenic phenotype of myeloma cells is either fully or partially suppressed in myeloma x fibroblast hybrids and that this may be due to the fact that expression of the translocated c-myc is suppressed. We suggest that, in addition to the translocated myc gene, myeloma cells contain other activated oncogene(s), and that the latter are responsible for the residual tumorigenic potential of the myeloma x fibroblast hybrids.
Xp11.2 translocation renal carcinoma with placental metastasis: a case report.	Renal cell carcinomas with sporadic Xp11.2 translocations are uncommon malignancies in children and young adults associated with several different reciprocal translocations involving the TFE3 gene located on chromosome Xp11.2. Placental metastases are extremely rare, with only a handful of cases reported. This study reports the case of a 20-year-old woman with an Xp11.2 translocation renal carcinoma that metastasized to the placenta. This is the first reported case of a renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the placenta and highlights the aggressive behavior of Xp11 translocation renal cell carcinomas.
Helix-loop-helix genes translocated in lymphoid leukemia.	A new class of DNA-binding proteins with a helix-loop-helix (HLH) structure has recently been described. Many of these transcriptional regulators are known to play a central role in cell-specification and differentiation processes. Four members of the HLH family are now implicated in the development of human lymphoid malignancies as a result of aberrant expression following chromosomal translocation events. This review focuses on two of these family members: SCL and LYL-1.
Two additional cases of isochromosome 21q or translocation 21q21q in hematological malignancies.	We report on 2 patients with isochromosome 21q [i(21q)] or translocation 21q21q [t(21q21q)] in myeloid disorders. Of 18 available cases of i(21q) or t(21q21q), 15 were found in myeloid malignancies, often secondary to a previous carcinogen exposure. Complex karyotypes were found in most cases. Four cases presented with i(21q) or t(21q21q) as the sole anomaly, and this might represent a specific entity.
Balanced reciprocal translocation mosaicism: new cases and a literature review.	Mosaicism for a balanced reciprocal translocation is uncommon. These two new cases were detected during investigation of infertility and miscarriages. Otherwise, the probands were normal. Of five previously described cases, only one was possibly syndromal. More reports of this class of chromosomal aberration are needed to assess accurately the risk of phenotypic abnormalities.
Late separating D/D fusions in subjects with "balanced" translocation.	The centromere separation sequence was determined in the mitoses of 5 subjects with "balanced" D/D translocations. Similarly to the acrocentrics, also the D/D fusions belonged to the chromosomes the sister chromatids of which separated last in the late metaphase stage.
Translocation (Y;19)(q12;q13) and azoospermia.	An azoospermic male with a 46,X,t(Y;19)(q12;q13) karyotype is described. The comparison with 12 similar cases reveals that the Y breakpoints are usually on the long arm whereas the autosomal ones seem to be at random. Since a premeiotic origin is inconsistent with the arrest at diakinesis seen in those cases with meiotic studies, we postulate that a balanced t(Y;A) arises either via a chromatid exchange in the meiotic interphase or through a chromosome exchange in spermiogenesis or at the one cell stage of the zygote.
Karyotypes and X chromosome inactivation in segregants of a murine X-autosome translocation, T(X;4)37H.	Karyotypes and X chromosome inactivation were studied in embryos obtained from female mice carrying T(X;4)37H translocation on day 6 to 8 of gestation by a BrdU-acridine orange method. A total of 18 different karyotypes were found in 477 embryos examined: 90.0% embryos were products expected from 2:2 alternate or adjacent 1 disjunction. 3:1 and adjacent 2 disjunctions accounted for approximately 8.0% and 0.7% conceptuses, respectively. In the embryo proper of balanced T37H/ + conceptuses, inactivation was random with respect to the normal X and the larger translocation X (4x) chromosome. In all the cells with the 4x inactive, the late replication apparently did not spread to the attached autosomal portion, although black/brown coat variegation implies spreading of inactivation into the autosomal region. The X chromosome segment deprived of the inactivation center remained active in all the cells examined and it exerted deleterious effects on embryonic or fetal development. Observation in embryos having two maternally derived X chromosomes showed that they were indeed resistant to inactivation in early extraembryonic cell lineages, and two copies of active X chromosomes in the trophectoderm fatally affected embryonic development due to inability to form the extraembryonic ectoderm and ectoplacental cone from the polar trophectoderm. In unbalanced X aneuploids the X chromosomes with the deletion were preferentially inactivated due to strong selection against nullisomy X.
Chromosome in situ suppression hybridisation in clinical cytogenetics.	The use of chromosome in situ suppression hybridisation with whole chromosome libraries has previously been reported by various research laboratories to be an effective method of identifying specific human chromosomal material. As a clinical cytogenetic service laboratory we have used the technique as a complement to diagnosis by classical chromosome banding. In three examples of structural rearrangements the potential use of the 'chromosome painting' method is assessed for its ability to enhance the routine cytogenetic service currently available.
49,XXXXY syndrome: behavioural and developmental profiles.	Behavioural, psychological, and cognitive profiles of three cases, including a 5 year old male with a 49,XXXXY karyotype and a (3;15) translocation, a 9 year old male with a 49,XXXXY karyotype, and a 32 year old male with 48,XXXY/49,XXXXY mosaicism, are presented. Significant behavioural problems were seen in the two older patients. The degree of mental retardation and impairment of language abilities were shown to be more severe in the older subjects as well. These findings are discussed with respect to the effects of the X chromosome on brain development.
A de novo translocation t(3;17)(q26.3;q23.1) in a child with Cornelia de Lange syndrome.	A female infant with Cornelia de Lange syndrome and severe limb reduction defects is described. Chromosome analysis showed a de novo translocation with breakpoints at 3q26.3 and 17q23.1. This is the first reported case of a de novo translocation associated with this syndrome.
Chromosome aberrations and cancer.	Cancer may be defined as a progressive series of genetic events that occur in a single clone of cells because of alterations in a limited number of specific genes: the oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. The association of consistent chromosome aberrations with particular types of cancer has led to the identification of some of these genes and the elucidation of their mechanisms of action. Consistent chromosome aberrations are observed not only in rare tumor types but also in the relatively common lung, colon, and breast cancers. Identification of additional mutated genes through other chromosomal abnormalities will lead to a more complete molecular description of oncogenesis.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with t(8;14)(q11.2;q32) in an elderly patient.	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with chromosome aberration t(8;14)(q11.2;q32) mostly affects patients younger than 20 years old. One third of patients with this translocation have been reported to have Down syndrome. This translocation has been reported rarely in patients over the age of 50. Here we report a 71-year-old male ALL patient who carried t(8;14)(q11.2;q32). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed the involvement of CCAAT enhancer-binding protein delta (CEBPD) gene on chromosome 8, and IgH gene on chromosome 14. This case provides a new aspect for considering this clinical entity.
Cytogenetics of renal cell carcinomas associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease.	To establish the chromosome pattern, we have analyzed short-term cultures of 24 renal cell carcinomas (RCC) from four patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL). We evaluated the results together with those for 16 RCCs from two VHL patients karyotyped previously in our laboratory and those of 6 tumors published by others. In all 46 RCCs, the cells had lost the shortest overlapping region of the 3pl3-pter chromosome segment. The rearrangement of 3p was the only karyotype change in 20 tumors. In more than 50% of the tumors, a gain of the shortest overlapping region of the 5122-qter segment was detected. Comparative analysis showed that the chromosome aberrations in RCCs associated with VHL are similar to those found in sporadic RCCs. These results indicate that non-papillary sporadic and VHL-RCCs have common genetic mechanisms that result in the loss of the 3p13-pter region containing one or more putative suppressor genes.
A complex chromosome rearrangement forms the BCR-ABL fusion gene in leukemic cells with a normal karyotype.	Chromosome in situ hybridization studies showed that the normal karyotype of leukemic cells from a patient with Ph1-negative, BCR-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) concealed a complex t(9;22;20)(q34;q11;p13). The close association of 5'-BCR and 3'-ABL was demonstrated by field inversion gel electrophoresis, and in situ hybridization showed that BCR-ABL was located on the short arm of chromosome 20. Our findings further indicate that chromosome rearrangement is the cause of BCR-ABL gene fusion in leukemic cells that show a normal karyotype. Results from in situ hybridization studies were consistent with formation of the t(9;22;20) by a two step chromosomal rearrangement, but field inversion gel electrophoresis results indicated a more complex rearrangement.
Is t(6;20)(p21;q13) a characteristic chromosome change in endometrial polyps?	Cytogenetic analysis of an endometrial polyp showed the presence of a t(6;20)(p21;q13) together with an ins(16;1)(q22;q32q42). Since a 6;20-translocation has been previously found in another endometrial polyp, we think that t(6;20)(p21;q13) may be a characteristic chromosomal change in endometrial polyps.
Translocation (14; 18) and (8; 22) in three patients with acute leukemia/lymphoma following centrocytic/centroblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Three patients with centrocytic/centroblastic lymphoma developed a rapidly fatal leukemic transformation of the disease after a transient remission. At the time of transformation, cytogenetic analysis revealed in all patients abnormal karyotypes with coexistence of t (14; 18) and t (8; 22). Molecular analysis in one patient showed rearrangement of the BCL 2 oncogene and c-myc m-RNA expression. These findings imply that translocation t (14; 18) was present during the first phase of the disease and that acquisition of translocation t (8; 22) was accompanied by leukemic transformation.
Trisomy 16q23----qter arising from a maternal t(13;16)(p12;q23): case report and evidence of the reciprocal balanced maternal rearrangement by the Ag-NOR technique.	We describe a female new-born with partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 16. The chromosome anomaly was the result of an unbalanced segregation of a maternal translocation t(13;16)(p12;q23). Dynamic (RBG, GBG) banding and the Ag-NOR technique ascertained the reciprocal balanced maternal translocation between the 16q23----qter and 13q12----pter segments because nucleolar organizers were present on the tip of long arms of the derivative 16 maternal chromosome. As monosomy 13p has little or no deleterious effect we consider our case as exhibiting the phenotype of trisomy 16q23----qter free from any monosomic feature. Clinical effects are of less consequence as compared with previously published cases of partial trisomy 16q.
A rare insertional translocation of proximal segment with heterochromatic region of 1q into 7p in monozygotic twins and spontaneous abortions.	We present a family identified through a healthy 20-year-old female with a history of multiple successive spontaneous abortions. Her karyotype demonstrates a rare balanced insertional translocation between chromosomes 1 and 7, 46,XX,dir ins(7;1)(p15.3;q12q21.3). This is the first reported case of a 7;1 insertional translocation involving the proximal segment of chromosome 1 and may well be the cause of the multiple spontaneous abortions in our proband.
Neutral glycosphingolipid expression in B-cell neoplasms.	The expression of neutral glycosphingolipids (GSL) in 37 B-cell neoplasms [7 acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), 5 Burkitt's lymphoma (BL), 7 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 5 diffuse, poorly differentiated lymphoma (DPDL), 6 diffuse histiocytic lymphoma (DHL), 3 hairy-cell leukemia (HCL), and 4 multiple myeloma (MM)] was examined. Patterns of expression of simple (GlcCer, LacCer) and globo-series GSL (Gb3, Gb4) were found for each tumor type. In addition, pre-B ALL expressed the neo-lacto series GSL, paragloboside, which was not significantly seen at later stages of maturation. As a group, leukemias expressed about 10 times higher ratios of simple GSL to Globo-series GSL as compared to lymphomas, regardless of stage of differentiation. Significant amounts of GSL of other series were not found except in one CLL which contained asialo-GM2. GSL phenotype in these cells was not grossly affected by cell genotype since pre-B ALL containing Philadelphia chromosome t(9q;22q) translocations were similar to other ALL; and DHL with t(8q;14q) translocations had GSL patterns similar to other DHL samples and dissimilar to GSL patterns found in Burkitt's lymphomas with t(8q;14q). Differences in GSL expression among the different types of B-cell neoplasm suggested that GSL patterns form a phenotypic map that may complement the traditional glycoprotein immunophenotypic map and contribute to our understanding of the biology of these diseases and B-cell differentiation.
Impact of chromosomal translocations on prognosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The presence of a chromosomal translocation in the leukemic cells at diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children is associated with a high risk for treatment failure. We have reexamined the relationship between translocations and prognosis in 146 children with ALL who received risk-based therapy such that high-risk patients were treated with intensive drug schedules. In univariate analysis, multiple factors were associated with a relatively poor event-free survival (EFS) including age less than 2 years or greater than 10 years (combined group), WBC count greater than 10 x 10(9)/L, French-American-British (FAB) morphologic classification L2, absence of common ALL antigen (CALLA, CD10) expression, absence of hyperdiploidy with a chromosome number of 50 to 60, and presence of the specific translocations t(4; 11)(q21;q23) or t(9;22)(q34;q11) (combined group). However, there was no disadvantage with respect to EFS in patients with translocations compared with those who lacked translocations (73% at 4 years in both groups). Furthermore, when patients with specific cytogenetic abnormalities for which the prognostic significance has been well established (hyperdiploid 50 to 60, t(4;11), and t(9;22] were removed from the analysis, the remaining group with other translocations had a better EFS than the remaining group lacking translocations, although this was not statistically significant (81% v 65% at 4 years, P = .24). In a multivariate analysis, a model including WBC count and FAB classification was the strongest predictor of EFS. The presence or absence of translocations was not an independent predictor of EFS and did not contribute to the ability of any model to predict EFS. In conclusion, when effective intensive therapy is used to treat childhood ALL with high-risk clinical features, categorization of patients on the basis of chromosomal translocations without attention to the specific abnormality is not useful as a prognostic factor.
Transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia to small non-cleaved cell lymphoma: a cytogenetic, immunological, and molecular study.	A patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) transforming into a small non-cleaved cell lymphoma (SNCL) with the occurrence of a t(8;22) is described. The SNCL and the CLL were both found to have a germline lambda light chain gene configuration and the same heavy chain and kappa light chain gene rearrangements. The SNCL was CD10 (CALLA) negative and appeared to be CD5 negative. It is concluded that the SNCL is derived from the CLL and that activation of the c-myc oncogene may have played a role in this transformation.
Cytogenetic study of peripheral lymphocyte culture in couples with habitual abortion]	We report on a cytogenetic investigation of lymphocytes in 241 couples and six women with at least three abortions. We found a balanced reciprocal translocation three times (1.2% of couples) and a balanced Robertsonian translocation twice (0.8% of couples). Four numerical aberrations of the gonosomes were detected (three of them as a mosaic), and one deletion Xq- as a mosaic. The heterochromatic region of the chromosomes 1, 9 or 16 was enlarged in 12 couples (4.9%). There was no couple with a pericentric inversion of the chromosomes 1 or 9. The enlarged Y-chromosome (five males) according to our results does not play any important role for the reproduction. Five translocations and one supernumerary chromosome each in one cell only indicate an enlarged frequency of breakage events in couples with habitual abortion.
Sinonasal and laryngeal carcinoma in children: correlation of imaging characteristics with clinicopathologic and cytogenetic features.	Pediatric upper airway carcinoma is uncommon, symptoms are nonspecific, and diagnosis is often delayed. In this study, we describe the imaging, cytogenetics, and clinical courses of 4 patients with pediatric upper airway carcinoma.
BCL6, MUM1, and CD10 expression in mantle cell lymphoma.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) characteristically express CD20, CD5, and cyclin-D1, carries the translocation t(11;14) (q13;q32) and typically has no expression of germinal center cell markers. So-called aberrant phenotypes such as CD5 negative and cyclin-D1-negative MCL have been described. Also few cases with CD10 and/or BCL-6 protein expression have been reported. We analyzed 127 MCL looking for the frequency of aberrant immunophenotype, CD10, BCL-6, and MUM1 expression. All cases were CD20 and cyclin-D1 positive, 96% expressed CD5, and 98% showed the t(11;14). BCL-6 expression was observed in 12% of the cases and MUM1 in 35%. No one case showed CD10 positivity in 30% or more neoplastic cells. Only 3 cases showed 10% to 20% of tumoral cells positive for CD10. MUM1 expression was observed in 67% of the BCL-6 positive cases. Thirty-two percent of the cases showed a MUM1+/BCL-6-/CD10- phenotype and 56% had a triple-negative-pattern. Aberrant phenotype is infrequent but not rare, and does not rule out a diagnosis of MCL in an otherwise typical case.
Chromosome aberrations involving 10q22: report of three overlapping interstitial deletions and a balanced translocation disrupting C10orf11.	Interstitial deletions of chromosome band 10q22 are rare. We report on the characterization of three overlapping de novo 10q22 deletions by high-resolution array comparative genomic hybridization in three unrelated patients. Patient 1 had a 7.9 Mb deletion in 10q21.3-q22.2 and suffered from severe feeding problems, facial dysmorphisms and profound mental retardation. Patients 2 and 3 had nearly identical deletions of 3.2 and 3.6 Mb, the proximal breakpoints of which were located at an identical low-copy repeat. Both patients were mentally retarded; patient 3 also suffered from growth retardation and hypotonia. We also report on the results of breakpoint analysis by array painting in a mentally retarded patient with a balanced chromosome translocation 46,XY,t(10;13)(q22;p13)dn. The breakpoint in 10q22 was found to disrupt C10orf11, a brain-expressed gene in the common deleted interval of patients 1-3. This finding suggests that haploinsufficiency of C10orf11 contributes to the cognitive defects in 10q22 deletion patients.
A common gain of function of p53 cancer mutants in inducing genetic instability.	The critical tumor suppressor p53 is mutated in over half of all human cancers. The majority of p53 cancer mutations are missense mutations, which can be classified into contact mutations that directly disrupt the DNA-binding of p53 but have modest impact on p53 conformation and structural mutations that greatly disrupt p53 conformation. Many p53 cancer mutants, including the hot spot mutations (R175H, R248W and R273H), not only lose p53-dependent tumor-suppressor activities, but also acquire new oncogenic activities to promote cancer. Therefore, it is critical to elucidate the gain of oncogenic function of p53 cancer mutants. Using humanized p53-mutant knock-in mouse models, we have identified a gain of oncogenic function shared by the most common p53 contact mutants (R273H and R248W) and structural mutant (R175H). This gain of function inactivates Mre11/ATM-dependent DNA damage responses, leading to chromosomal translocation and defective G(2)/M checkpoint. Considering the critical roles of ATM in maintaining genetic stability and therapeutic responses to many cancer treatments, the identification of this common gain of function of p53 cancer mutants will have important implication on the drug resistance of a significant portion of human cancers that express either the contact or structural p53 cancer mutants.
Infant leukemia in Japan: clinical and biological analysis of 48 cases.	Forty-eight Japanese infants with acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) (n = 24) and acute nonlymphoid leukemia (ANLL) (n = 24) were analyzed on the basis of clinical and laboratory data. Morphologically, 20 of the 24 infants with ALL were of the FAB L1 type, and 20 of the 24 infants with ANLL were of the M4 or M5 type. Markedly enlarged liver and spleen, and hyperleukocytosis (more than 50,000/microliters) were seen in 9, 12, and 14 infants with ALL and 10, 11, and 10 infants with ANLL, respectively. Initial CNS leukemia was evident in 2 infants. Chromosome studies of the leukemic cells showed abnormal karyotypes in 9 of the 21 infants with ALL and 19 of the 22 infants with ANLL, consisting mainly of translocation 11, 12, and inversion 16. By surface marker analysis, only 7 of the 22 infants with ALL (32%) were diagnosed as having common ALL (HLA-DR+, CD19+, CD10+). Of the 15 infants with ANLL, 12 and 5 infants also showed reactivity to HLA-DR and CD19, respectively. All of the 5 ANLL infants with lymphoid markers showed different leukemic cell features at the time of relapse. Twelve of the 19 infants with ALL (63%) who achieved a complete remission relapsed within the first 2 years; 8 of the 21 with ANLL (38%) relapsed within the first year. Analysis of event-free survival shows that the ALL infants with hyperleukocytosis have a poorer prognosis than those without hyperleukocytosis (p less than 0.05). Infant leukemia originates in a multipotent cell with lymphoid and myeloid features, and intensive multiagent chemotherapy is necessary for the treatment of infants with acute leukemia.
Molecular structure of double reciprocal translocations: significance in B-cell lymphomagenesis.	The molecular structure of reciprocal translocations associated with low grade and high grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas occurring together was analysed in two tumors. Sequential biopsies documented histological transformation of a large cell lymphoma to an immunoblastic lymphoma bearing t(14;18)(q32;q21) and t(8;22)(q24;q11). A second tumor, a small non-cleaved cell lymphoma, demonstrated a t(8;14)(q24;q11) as well as t(18;22)(q21;q11). DNA analysis from these tumors showed rearrangements at the Ig heavy chain, kappa and lambda light chains, BCL2 and c-MYC loci. Utilizing multiple enzyme digests and different probes spanning the BCL2, c-MYC and Ig genes, mapping of DNA break-points was performed. In both these tumors primary translocation events dysregulating the BCL2 or c-MYC were identified to have occurred in a pre-B-cell. Based on these results and those published previously, a sequence of B-cell development during which somatic recombination errors lead to the genesis of specific translocations is proposed. From these studies it is inferred that secondary dysregulation of a c-MYC in a lymphoma tumor carrying dysregulated BCL2 gene leads to rapid progression to high grade disease.
Molecular definition in a somatic cell hybrid of a specific 2:13 translocation breakpoint in childhood rhabdomyosarcoma.	A consistent, balanced, reciprocal chromosomal translocation t(2:13) (q35:q14) has been identified in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Somatic cell hybrids have been constructed between rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines carrying the (2:13) translocation and mouse 3T3 cells. One hybrid cell line was shown to have retained the derivative (13:2) chromosome, but segregated the normal chromosome 13 and the derivative (2:13) chromosome. Using available DNA probes from human chromosome 13 we find that the loci for retinoblastoma, esterase D, p7D2, pG24E6.8 and pG14E1.9 lie distally to the 13q14 breakpoint, whereas those for p7F12, pHU10 and pG2E3.1 all lie proximally. Thus we have defined a region of 13q14 of approximately 28mB which contains the breakpoint associated with this rearrangement.
Molecular localization of the t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation of Ewing sarcoma by chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization.	Chromosome translocations are associated with a variety of human leukemias, lymphomas, and solid tumors. To localize molecular markers flanking the t(11;22) (q24;q12) breakpoint that occurs in virtually all cases of Ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, high-resolution chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization was carried out using a panel of cosmid clones localized and ordered on chromosome 11q. The location of the Ewing sarcoma translocation breakpoint was determined relative to the nearest two cosmid markers on 11q, clones 23.2 and 5.8, through the analysis of metaphase chromosome hybridization. By in situ hybridization to interphase nuclei, the approximate physical separation of these two markers was determined. In both Ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, cosmid clone 5.8 is translocated from chromosome 11q24 to the derivative chromosome 22 and a portion of chromosome 22q12 carrying the leukemia inhibitory factor gene is translocated to the derivative chromosome 11. The physical distance between the flanking cosmid markers on chromosome 11 was determined to be in the range of 1000 kilobases, and genomic analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed no abnormalities over a region of 650 kilobases in the vicinity of the leukemia inhibitory factor gene on chromosome 22. This approach localizes the Ewing sarcoma breakpoint to a small region on chromosome 11q24 and provides a rapid and precise technique for the molecular characterization of chromosomal aberrations.
Chromosomal characteristics of chronic and blastic phase of chronic myeloid leukemia. A study of 100 patients in India.	We report the cytogenetic findings of 100 patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) [72 patients in chronic phase (CP) and 28 patients in blastic phase (BP)]. Of the 95 Ph + patients, six had Ph variant translocations involving chromosomes 1, 6, 7, 10, and 12. The percentage frequency of patients with chromosomal changes other than Ph was 7.3%. The additional aberrations (e.g., + Ph, + 8, i(17q), and + 19 were observed in 66.6% of BP patients. Of these anomalies, the frequency of + Ph and + 19 was higher in our patients than the incidence reported in literature. The association of + Ph and + 19 in patients with extramedullary T-cell blast crisis is an unusual finding as compared with reports in the literature and could be explained by geographic heterogeneity. The extra chromosomal abnormalities were almost absent in lymphoid blast crisis patients with blast phenotype of common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) type. Discrepancies were noted in different tissues (bone marrow and lymph node) in patients with extramedullary blast crisis of both myeloid and lymphoid type. These findings indicate the cytogenetic correlation with clinical and morphological picture, which consequently implicates the diagnostic and prognostic significance of chromosomal aspects.
"Jumping" translocations involving band 3q13.3 in a case of acute monocytic leukemia.	We report a case of acute monocytic leukemia (FAB-5a) with a very aggressive clinical course and multiple chromosomal abnormalities. There were several sublines, each with trisomy 8 and a translocation involving 3q13.3 as a common breakpoint region. This region is an uncommon site of chromosomal breakage in malignancies and has not hitherto been reported as a breakpoint site in "jumping" translocations.
A case of basophilic leukemia bearing simultaneous translocations t(8;21) and t(9;22).	We report a case of basophilic leukemia with simultaneous translocations of t(8;21) and t(9;22). The patient's clinical and hematologic findings were characteristic only of t(9;22) but not of t(8;21). This unusual cytogenetic phenomenon raises a challenge to the current concepts of primary chromosomal abnormalities in cancer.
Acute myelomonocytic leukemia with bone marrow eosinophilia and inv(16)(p13q22),t(1;16)(q32;q22).	A two-year-old girl presenting with de novo acute myelomonocytic leukemia with eosinophilia (French-American-British [FAB] classification, M4Eo) and inv(16)(p13q22), t(1;16)(q32;q22) involving the same chromosome 16 is described. This is the second report of a variant translocation of an inverted chromosome 16 with chromosome 1 at 1q32. However, the segment 1q32----1qter has been exchanged for 16q22----qter and not 16p13----pter, as reported in the previous case. The additional break at 1q32 and the juxtaposition of 1q32----qter onto chromosome 16 could be relevant to the pathogenesis of the disease.
Philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group study.	During an 8-year period, 3,638 children from institutions of the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Fifty-seven patients had Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph1) ALL. Blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases (23%) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 (-7). This subgroup of children with Ph1/-7 ALL was comprised primarily of older males with early B-lineage ALL. Bone marrow specimens from six Ph1/-7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the ALL, and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9;22 translocation. Rearrangements were detected in RNA from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients, although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis. Five cases showed the ALL breakpoint, while one child with Ph1/-7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint. The induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup (31%) as compared with Ph1-negative cases, and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years. ALL with both the 9;22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood ALL associated with a particularly adverse outcome. Leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene (Ph1) and a tumor suppressor gene (-7).
NB4, a maturation inducible cell line with t(15;17) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3).	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia, cytogenetically characterized by a t(15;17) (q22;q11-12) translocation. In vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid (RA) treatment restores cell maturation. We have isolated the first permanent cell line with t(15;17), derived from the marrow of a patient with APL in relapse. The establishment of the cell line, its morphologic, karyotypic, and immunohistochemical features are reported. RA induced cell line maturation. Cells strongly expressed myeloid markers, but also some T-cell markers. Additional karyotypic abnormalities, a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region (HSR) on 19q+ are discussed both in relation to T-cell (CD2, CD4) and monocyte (CD9) markers, and to the acquired cell growth autonomy. The cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies.
Clinical management issues in males with sex chromosomal mosaicism and discordant phenotype/sex chromosomal patterns.	The recent availability of Y DNA probes has made it possible to identify two forms of 46,XX male syndrome: Y DNA positive and Y DNA negative. The Y DNA positive male results from a X;Y translocation with a low recurrence risk; the Y DNA negative males are due to a mutation with a high recurrence risk. 46,XX males and mosaic forms are phenotypically indistinguishable. A review of the case histories for 11 individuals indicates that affected males have highly variable genital and nongenital phenotypes. Physical findings may be clearly apparent or nonexistent. With the exception of external genitalia, the basis for this variability is unknown. It may be related to differences in Y chromatin expression as the result of variable inactivation of the X chromosomes, or to the existence of minor deletions or point mutations secondary to an exchange of genetic material. Common and uncommon clinical problems in these individuals require evaluation and follow-up care that is provided through a cooperative, interdisciplinary approach.
Developmental arrest at early stages of Chinese hamster embryos homozygous for chromosomal rearrangements.	Forty-three Chinese hamster stocks with autosomal rearrangements produced by X-irradiation were used. These rearrangements, 38 reciprocal translocations and 5 inversions, were chromosomally balanced. Heterozygotes for these rearrangements were all fertile and morphologically normal in both sexes except for one line with growth retardation. By crossing male and female heterozygotes for the same rearrangements, homozygotes were obtained in 37 lines. In the remaining 6 lines (5 with reciprocal translocations and 1 with an inversion), no homozygotes were viable. These 6 lines revealed arrested development of homozygous embryos at the two-cell stage, around the eight-cell stage, and after implantation, respectively. The bands of the breakpoints of rearrangements associated with lethality of homozygous embryos were different for each rearrangement. These results suggest that abnormal expression including embryonic lethality in homozygotes may be due to an influence of genes at the breakpoints.
Familial renal cell carcinoma: clinical and molecular genetic aspects.	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for 2% of all human cancer, but familial cases are infrequent. Riches (1963) and Griffin et al. (1984) in a population-based case-control study found a family history of renal cell carcinoma in 2.4% of affected patients compared to 1.4% of controls. Nevertheless the importance of inherited tumours in clinical practice and medical research is disproportionate to their frequency. In clinical practice recognition of familial RCC can provide opportunities to prevent morbidity and mortality by appropriate screening. In medical research recent advances in molecular genetics offer the prospect of isolating the genes involved in the pathogenesis of familial RCC and of the more common sporadic cases. In this article we review the clinical and molecular genetics of inherited renal cell carcinoma (adenocarcinoma or hypernephroma).
Reversibility of the malignant phenotype in monoclonal tumours in the mouse.	Longterm goitrogen administration to rodents is well known to result in multiple proliferative lesions of the thyroid. The regression of these lesions on withdrawal of goitrogen has led to their neoplastic nature being questioned, and they have been regarded as 'nodules' rather than as true tumours. We have induced multiple thyroid lesions by the combined use of high dose radiation as a mutagen, together with goitrogen administration to induce prolonged TSH growth stimulation. G6PD histochemistry was used in heterozygous G6PD deficient female mice to show that all the thyroid lesions induced by this regime were monophenotypic, and therefore monoclonal in origin. The great majority of induced tumours were adenomas, a minority were carcinomas. The number of carcinomas observed was significantly lower in a group of animals from which goitrogen was withdrawn for 4 weeks prior to killing, when compared to animals killed while on goitrogen treatment. Both adenomas and carcinomas, including areas of intravascular tumour, showed morphological features of regression on withdrawal of the goitrogen. There are three key cellular changes which must occur in spontaneous thyroid carcinogenesis--escape from a growth limiting mechanism, acquisition of TSH independent growth and acquisition of invasiveness. In the natural selection of mutations or epimutations during carcinogenesis, prolonged high levels of TSH are likely to remove any selective advantage from mutations that lead to TSH independent growth. Tumours induced by a regime including prolonged goitrogen treatment may therefore develop following two rather than three key stages. They will occur with an increased frequency relative to lesions observed in spontaneous carcinogenesis, but will retain TSH dependency. We speculate that several mechanisms may lead to loss of the growth limiting mechanism, including translocation of an oncogene to the region of a TSH induced promoter. Other carcinogenic regimes may also increase the yield of tumours by creating conditions which reduce the number of essential steps required for carcinogenesis, and may involve translocation to a carcinogen inducible promoter.
Molecular cloning of the chromosomal breakpoint of a B-cell lymphoma with the t(11;14)(q23;q32) translocation.	The breakpoint of t(11;14)(q23;q32) chromosome translocation in a B-cell lymphoma line, RC-K8, was cloned. Immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) constant gene, C gamma 2 at the 5' end, was involved in this translocation, and the DNA segment juxtaposed to the C gamma 2 was proved to be derived from chromosome 11 by somatic cell hybrid study. The normal counterpart of chromosome 11 was also isolated. With a DNA probe near the breakpoint of chromosome 11, Southern blot analysis of RC-K8 and 10 other cases with translocation involving the 11q23 region was conducted, but no rearrangement bands have been observed thus far except for RC-K8.
Tetrasomy 9p: an emerging syndrome.	An infant with non-mosaic 9p tetrasomy is described. The tetrasomy apparently results from a translocation involving the 9qh region. All the cells analyzed from multiple banding techniques from lymphocyte culture as well as skin fibroblast culture were 9p tetrasomic. The infant, who had the characteristic dysmorphic features of 9p tetrasomy, survived for 2 months. Prominent features included: low birth weight, severe retardation, brachycephaly with large anterior fontanelle, hypertelorism with short bilateral palpebral fissures, beaked nose, bilateral cleft lip and palate, and low-set, malformed ears. Skeletal anomalies, ambiguous genitalia and heart defect were also observed. These features are highly characteristic of the 9p tetrasomy syndrome based on six pure tetrasomy and four cases of tetrasomy that included part of the 9qh region.
Synaptonemal complex analysis in a human male carrier of a 4;6 translocation: heterosynapsis without previous homosynapsis.	Silver-stained synaptonemal complexes in surface-spread pachytene nuclei from a man, heterozygous for a reciprocal translocation, were analysed by electron microscopy. Contrary to the classically expected cross-shaped configuration, extensive non-homologous pairings were observed with asymmetrical association in the lateral elements of the non-homologous arms of the quadrivalents. A possible role of the heterosynapsis in reproductive failure is discussed.
Cytogenetic analysis of a granulocytic sarcoma in a patient without systemic leukaemia.	Granulocytic sarcoma is a rare complication of leukaemia. Occasionally it presents before the development of systemic leukaemia when diagnosis may be difficult. A case of granulocytic sarcoma occurring in a patient with no overt evidence of leukaemia, but in whom cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow showed a clonal t(12;13) translocation, is reported. Cytogenetic analysis of tissues in this disease may indicate evidence of systemic disease before overt morphological changes.
Estimating meiotic disjunction frequencies in chicken translocation heterozygotes based on embryonic mortality.	Chickens heterozygous for a chromosomal translocation [MN t(1;4)] were intercrossed and the progeny were analyzed for their chromosome complement. A ratio of 1 homozygous translocation carrier to 4 heterozygous translocation carriers to 1 homozygous standard chromosome carrier was noted (n = 520), rather than the 1:2:1 ratio expected from Mendelian segregation. The excess of heterozygous carriers was apparently caused by union of complementary duplication/deficient gametes. Embryonic death occurred in 68% of fertile zygotes. This finding fits very closely to expectations if alternate and adjacent meiotic disjunctions occurred at equal frequencies. As alternate disjunction frequencies increase from 0.5 to 1.0 in inter se matings, the proportion of inviable zygotes among fertilized ova will decrease from 0.625 to 0 and the proportion of translocation heterozygotes among viable progeny will decrease from 0.667 to 0.5. In instances where alternate and adjacent disjunction occur at equal frequency, preferential recovery of translocation carriers will occur. This may contribute to chromosomal diversity within a species, and possibly lead to speciation.
Alpha interferon: perspectives in the biotherapy of chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a clonal disorder characterized by a cytogenetic translocation, the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph). CML terminates in blastic transformation with additional secondary cytogenetic events. Standard chemotherapy rarely results in Ph suppression and is associated with three- to four-year overall survival. Alpha interferon has a mechanism of action distinct from that of chemotherapy. Although the percentage of patients that can be expected to achieve complete hematologic remission (CHR) with alpha interferon is similar to the percentage expected with chemotherapy, nearly 40% of patients undergoing treatment with alpha interferon have some degree of Ph suppression. Present studies will determine whether interferon delays blastic transformation and improves survival in CML. This paper addresses current issues in the alpha interferon therapy of this malignancy, such as optimum dose, duration of therapy, antibody formation, toxicities, and altered characteristics of blastic transformation. Alpha interferon will have a major role, both therapeutic and prognostic, in the management of CML.
Genetic recombination in a chromosomal translocation t(2;8)(p11;q24) of a Burkitt's lymphoma cell line, KOBK101.	We analyzed a chromosomal translocation, t(2;8)(p11;q24), in a Burkitt's lymphoma cell line, KOBK101. The translocation reciprocally occurred between a site about 150 bp upstream from the J5 segment in the Ig kappa-encoding gene on chromosome 2 and the A-rich end of an Alu repetitive element located far downstream from the c-myc gene on chromosome 8. Short segments of both parental chromosomes were deleted at the rearrangement site. A sequence related to the heptamer recognition signal for the V-J recombination of Ig genes and a topoisomerase I-recognition sequence were detected at the breakpoints. The V-J recombination occurred on both chromosome 2 and the translocated chromosome 2p- at the J3 and J4 segments, respectively. The J region on the translocated chromosomes was mutated, as compared with that on the untranslocated chromosome, while the Alu element and its upstream sequence were conserved. These results suggest the following aspects to the chromosomal translocation of this cell line. A V-J recombination seems to have occurred at the proximal end of the J4 segment first, and then the translocation took place in the region between the J4 and J5 segments. The translocation may have been mediated by the functions of topoisomerase I and the Alu repetitive sequence located at the breakpoint, although the possibility cannot be ruled out that the recombination machinery for Ig gene rearrangements functioned irregularly.
De novo complex chromosomal rearrangement in a woman with recurrent spontaneous abortion and one healthy daughter.	Although rare, complex chromosomal rearrangements have been reported in the literature. The result is multiple congenital malformations in the offspring and recurrent spontaneous abortion. Chromosome 7 is usually involved, but in our patient chromosome 18 was involved.
Balanced t(6;8)(6p8p;6q8q) and the CHARGE association.	A girl is described with bilateral retinal colobomata, Fallot's tetralogy, unilateral choanal atresia, abnormalities of the external ears, bilateral sensorineural deafness, a unilateral facial nerve palsy, and a tracheo-oesophageal fistula. A clinical diagnosis of the CHARGE association was made. She had an apparently balanced whole arm translocation involving chromosomes 6 and 8. Parental karyotypes were normal.
Molecular investigation of 19p13 in standard and variant translocations: the E12 probe recognizes the 19p13 breakpoint in cases with t(1;19) and acute leukemia other than pre-B immunophenotype.	The gene E2A has recently been cloned, mapped to 19p13 and shown to be rearranged in cases of pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with t(1;19) (q23;p13). Nine cases with a 19p13 breakpoint, four having a phenotype other than pre-B, have been investigated with the E12 probe to the E2A gene. Five cases had t(1;19) (q23;p13) and C-ALL with pre-B phenotype in four out of four cases tested. Two cases had t(1;19) (q21;p13), one with Null cell phenotype, t(4;11), and 'jumping translocations' and the other with acute non-lymphocytic leukemia M5 following bone marrow transplantation for C-ALL. Variant translocations in patients with ALL were t(15;19) (q15;p13) and t(17;19) (q21;p13). Southern blotting with E12 showed rearrangement in the cases with t(1;19) (q23;p13) and t(1;19) (q21;p13), but not in other cases with variant 19p13 breakpoints. Thus rearrangement of the E2A gene is not restricted to cases with pre-B ALL but may also occur in acute leukemias with other immunological phenotypes. Failure to detect rearrangement in 19p13 variants may be due to an E2A breakpoint outside the E12 recognition region. Alternatively, there may be further genes in this location with relevance to leukemogenesis.
Translocations t(14;18) and t(8;14) with rearranged bcl-2 and c-myc in a case presenting as B-ALL (L3).	Follicular lymphoma is a low grade malignancy characterized by the translocation t(14;18), which involves the putative oncogene bcl-2. We describe a 73-year-old patient presenting with Burkitt acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) L3 (Burkitt type), whose cells had the following immunophenotype: CD19+, CD22+, HLA-DR+, CD10+, TdT-, Cyt IgM-, CD34-. Analysis of 25 peripheral blood metaphases showed the presence of t(14;18) (q32;q21), and t(8;14) (q24;q32) in 24 cells and t(14;18) only in one cell, suggesting that the latter translocation came first during clonal evolution. Both bcl-2 and c-myc were rearranged in addition to the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes. The presence of small lymphoid cells in paratrabecular areas on the bone marrow biopsy, together with evidence of cytogenetic clonal evolution, was indicative of a transformation from a low grade follicular lymphoma to a more aggressive Burkitt type malignancy.
Chromosome 1 abnormalities in myeloid malignancies: a literature survey and karyotype-phenotype associations.	Chromosome 1 is the largest human chromosome and contains over 1600 known genes and 1000 novel coding sequences or transcripts. It is, therefore, not surprising that recurrent chromosome 1 abnormalities are regularly encountered in both neoplastic and non-neoplastic medical conditions. The current review is focused on myeloid malignancies where we summarize the relevant published literature and discuss specific karyotype-phenotype associations. We show that chromosome 1 abnormalities are most frequent in BCR-ABL-negative classic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN): polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). Specific abnormalities include duplications (e.g. 1q12-->1q32 in PV, 1q21-32-->1q32-44 in post-PV MF or PMF), deletions (e.g. 1p13-36-->pter in PV or PMF, 1q21 in PMF) and unbalanced translocations involving chromosome 6, such as der(6)t(1;6)(q21-25;p21.3-23), and other partner chromosomes involving 1q10/1p11 and 1q21-25 breakpoints. Although occasionally seen in chronic phase MPN, unbalanced 1;7 translocations, e.g. der(1;7)(q10;p10), are usually seen in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and post-MPN AML/MDS. These observations suggest that certain chromosome 1 regions, especially 1q21-1q32 and 1p11-13, might harbor oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes that are pathogenetically relevant to both chronic and advanced phases of MPN.
Differential expression of the LYL, SCL and E2A helix-loop-helix genes within the hemopoietic system.	The helix-loop-helix genes LYL, SCL and E2A are associated with chromosome translocations found in human lymphoid leukemias. To establish their hematopoietic expression patterns, we have isolated murine LYL and SCL cDNA clones and investigated the expression of all three genes by Northern blot analysis of 58 murine hemopoietic cell lines and tissues. The nucleotide sequences of LYL cDNA clones revealed alternative 5' untranslated sequences and differential splicing within the 5' portion of the coding region that may produce a LYL polypeptide lacking an N-terminal segment. The LYL gene was expressed in most myeloid, erythroid and B lymphocyte cell lines and displayed two alternative size classes of transcripts, the smaller size class (1.5-1.8 kb) being typical of the erythroid lineage and the larger class (2.0-2.3 kb) of the B cell lineage. These two size classes were found to differ in the 5' untranslated region. Thus, expression of the LYL gene appears to be differentially regulated in different hemopoietic cell types. In contrast, the E2A gene was expressed throughout the hemopoietic compartment as a single dominant transcript (3.5 kb). SCL expression was restricted to erythroid, mast and early myeloid cell lines, and the level of SCL transcripts (3.0 and 4.7 kb species) increased markedly during DMSO-induced differentiation of erythro-leukemia cells. Hence the SCL gene product may be an important regulatory factor for the erythroid lineage. The low or undetectable expression of both SCL and LYL in most T lymphoid cell sources is consistent with the view that the translocations of these genes in human T cell leukemias alter their normal regulation and may thereby contribute to neoplasia.
A cytogenetic follow-up study of the victims of a radiation accident in Goiania (Brazil).	A radiation accident involving a cesium-137 therapy source occurred in Goiania (Brazil) in September 1987, in which more than 50 individuals were exposed to moderate to high doses (0.2-7 Gy) of gamma-radiation. A cytogenetic technique (i.e., frequencies of dicentrics and rings in peripheral lymphocytes) was employed to estimate the absorbed radiation dose. The follow-up study extending over more than 1 year indicated a decline in the frequencies of dicentrics in the lymphocytes. Using chromosome-specific biotinylated library probes for chromosomes 1, 2, 8 and 19, we studied the frequencies of chromosomal translocations and deletions and the incidence of aneuploidy in the lymphocytes of exposed individuals. In some individuals there was a significant increase in the frequency of translocations and aneuploidy. In other experiments, in which the frequencies of HPRT mutations were determined in lymphocytes using the BrdU-labeling method, some individuals showed an increase (from about 2- to 50-fold) in mutant frequencies.
Immunoglobulin heavy chain locus chromosomal translocations in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia: rare clinical curios or potent genetic drivers?	Chromosomal translocations involving the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) locus define common subgroups of B-cell lymphoma but are rare in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). Recent fluorescent in situ hybridization and molecular cloning studies have identified several novel IGH translocations involving genes that play important roles in normal hemopoiesis, including the cytokine receptor genes CRLF2 and EPOR, all members of the CCAAT enhancer-binding protein gene family, as well as genes not normally expressed in hemopoietic cells including inhibitor of DNA binding 4. IGH translocation results in deregulated target gene expression because of juxtaposition with IGH transcriptional enhancers. However, many genes targeted by IGH translocations are also more commonly deregulated in BCP-ALL as a consequence of other genetic or epigenetic mechanisms. For example, interstitial genomic deletions also result in deregulated CRLF2 expression, whereas EPOR expression is deregulated as a consequence of the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion. The possible clinical importance of many of the various IGH translocations in BCP-ALL remains to be determined from prospective studies, but CRLF2 expression is associated with a poor prognosis. Despite their rarity, IGH chromosomal translocations in BCP-ALL therefore define not only new mechanisms of B-cell transformation but also clinically important subgroups of disease and suggest new targeted therapeutic approaches.
Analysis of whole-arm translocations in malignant blood cells by nonisotopic in situ hybridization.	Whole-arm translocations in five leukemic patients were studied using nonisotopic in situ hybridization with alpha satellite DNA and simple satellite chromosome-specific DNA probes to detect the target sequences. The results show that this technique provides additional information on the involvement of these DNA sequences in whole-arm translocations.
Aneuploidy induction in mice: construction and use of a tester stock with 100% nondisjunction.	A new murine tester stock for primary nondisjunction incorporates three genetically marked Robertsonian translocations with tribrachial homology (TBH): Rb(6.15)1Ald, Rb(4.6)2Bnr, and Rb(4.15)4Rma. The resultant tricentromeric meiotic configuration leads to 100% aneuploid gametes, but the TBH stock can be maintained by intercrossing, through the complementation of nullisomic and disomic gametes. The only neonatal survivors from tescrosses to wild type come from complementation of aneuploid gametes and genetic tests allow wild type gains or losses of Chromosomes 4, 6, and 15 to be distinguished. Alternatively, cytogenetic examination allows products of wild type chromosome gain, with one metacentric, to be separated from chromosome loss with two metacentrics. A pilot study, with 0-2 Gy X-irradiation of oocytes at diakinesis, revealed twelve examples of chromosome loss in wild type gametes but none of chromosome gain and thus provided no evidence for the induction of nondisjunction.
Painting of defined chromosomal regions by in situ suppression hybridization of libraries from laser-microdissected chromosomes.	"Painting" of defined chromosomal regions provides a powerful tool for cytogenetic analyses. Here, we demonstrate that chromosomal in situ suppression (CISS)-hybridization of DNA libraries derived by microcloning laser-microdissected chromosomal regions can be applied to achieve this goal. As an example, we used unbanded metaphase spreads from a female patient carrying a balanced translocation. t(1;7)(1qter----1p36::7q11----7qter). Fragments from the long arms of 130 translocation chromosomes were microdissected. After microcloning, human inserts with an average size of about 3 kb were pooled from 400 recombinant bacteriophage DNA clones and used as a complex probe set in CISS-hybridization experiments. This resulted in painting of the translocation chromosome along the region 7q35 to 1p31. Painted chromosomal subregions in normal chromosomes 1 and 7 were consistent with this finding. This approach may be used to perform painting of any chromosome regions for which microlibraries can be established. Possible applications include the definition of marker chromosomes in clinical and tumor cytogenetics and studies of chromosomal evolution, as well as studies of nuclear chromosome topography in animal and plant species.
No induction of interchromosomal effect in male meiosis of Chinese hamsters with reciprocal translocations.	Chinese hamsters from five strains with reciprocal translocations, T(1;3)7Idr, T(1;3)8Idr, T(1;2)9Idr, T(7;9)16Idr, and T(1;5)17Idr, and a karyotypically normal strain, CHS/Idr, were used to look for an interchromosomal effect by chromosomal analysis of meiotic cells and one-cell embryos. The frequencies of nondisjunction at first meiosis in five normal (+/+) males, calculated by doubling the number of hyperhaploid cells, ranged from 0.43% to 1.33%, and there was no significant difference in frequency among individuals. On the other hand, the frequency of hyperhaploid cells in males heterozygous for each translocation ranged from 3.0% to 11.8%, and the frequency of hyperhaploid cells with an extra translocation-unrelated chromosome ranged from 0.2% to 0.4%, which is no different from that estimated from scoring of +/+ males at the second meiotic metaphase. In one-cell embryos from crosses between karyotypically normal females and male heterozygotes for T(1;2)9Idr and T(7;9)16Idr, 1.1% and 0.5% of embryos had an extra translocation-unrelated chromosome. Compared with the control, the frequency of meiotic nondisjunction showed no increase in male heterozygotes for the reciprocal translocations. Therefore, the results suggest that multivalents and rearranged chromosomes existing at first and second meiosis in male Chinese hamsters exert no influence on segregation of normal bivalents and chromosomes unrelated to the rearrangements.
Protamine transcript sharing among postmeiotic spermatids.	Sharing of cytoplasmic constituents through intercellular bridges connecting postmeiotic spermatids can allow for functional equivalence of genetically nonequivalent spermatids. The technique of in situ hybridization was used to study postmeiotic distribution of transcripts from the mouse protamine 1 (Prm-1) gene among spermatids of mice with chromosomally unbalanced gametes. The Prm-1 gene is located on chromosome 16 and is expressed exclusively in haploid spermatids. Mice doubly heterozygous for two Robertsonian translocations involving chromosome 16 were used for the study of postmeiotic accumulation of transcripts of the Prm-1 gene in spermatogenic cells. The meiotic segregation pattern of chromosomal homologues in these mice produces some spermatids that are chromosomally unbalanced; some spermatids lack chromosome 16 while others have two. In situ hybridization with a cDNA probe for the Prm-1 gene transcript performed on both whole testis sections and spermatogenic cell suspensions showed that there was no statistical difference in distribution of grains over step-5 to step-10 spermatids from Robertsonian-translocation heterozygous mice and from control mice of normal karyotype. These results are consistent with sharing of transcripts of the Prm-1 gene among spermatids within a syncytium.
Cytogenetic analysis of 434 consecutively ascertained specimens of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: clinical correlations.	Cytogenetic and histopathologic data were correlated with clinical parameters from 423 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Clinical correlations were performed on subgroups of 149 patients with low-grade lymphoma (LG) and 205 patients with diffuse lymphoma with a large cell component (DLLC). Correlations were made between clinical outcome and individual recurring cytogenetic aberrations, each of which was noted in greater than 5% of cases belonging to LG NHL and DLLC, and derived measures of karyotypic complexity, comprising modal chromosome number, number of marker chromosomes, and number of translocation breakpoints. No correlations with survival were noted in LG NHL, although median follow-up was only 2 years. Seven patients with t(8;14) LG NHL had an indolent course. Among 104 patients with DLLC and abnormal karyotypes at diagnosis, breaks at 1q21-23 or more than 4 marker chromosomes was associated with a shortened median survival. Using these variables we constructed a proportional hazards model with a good fit to observed data. Breaks at 6q21-25 predicted a decreased probability of achieving remission. Patients with DLLC and breaks at 1q21-23 or 1p32-36 had a shorter duration of complete remission. Of 41 DLLC studied at relapse, the only long-term survivors had t(14;18).
Two distinct loci on the short arm of chromosome 16 are involved in myeloid leukemia.	We report a case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) M5 with the characteristic t(8;16)(p11;p13). The breakpoint in the short arm was regionally localized using nonradioactive in situ hybridization with a series of cosmids of chromosome 16. The results show that a difference exists between the breakpoint in chromosome 16(p13) in this t(8;16) and the breakpoint involved in the short arm in the characteristic inversion 16 (p13;q22)) that occurs in ANLL M4eo. Two different loci appear to be involved in these chromosomal rearrangements.
AFF4, a component of the ELL/P-TEFb elongation complex and a shared subunit of MLL chimeras, can link transcription elongation to leukemia.	Chromosomal translocations involving the MLL gene are associated with infant acute lymphoblastic and mixed lineage leukemia. There are a large number of translocation partners of MLL that share very little sequence or seemingly functional similarities; however, their translocations into MLL result in the pathogenesis of leukemia. To define the molecular reason why these translocations result in the pathogenesis of leukemia, we purified several of the commonly occurring MLL chimeras. We have identified super elongation complex (SEC) associated with all chimeras purified. SEC includes ELL, P-TEFb, AFF4, and several other factors. AFF4 is required for SEC stability and proper transcription by poised RNA polymerase II in metazoans. Knockdown of AFF4 in leukemic cells shows reduction in MLL chimera target gene expression, suggesting that AFF4/SEC could be a key regulator in the pathogenesis of leukemia through many of the MLL partners.
MLL-AF9-induced leukemogenesis requires coexpression of the wild-type Mll allele.	Oncogenic fusion proteins are capable of initiating tumorigenesis, but the role of their wild-type counterparts in this process is poorly understood. The mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) gene undergoes chromosomal translocations, resulting in the formation of oncogenic MLL fusion proteins (MLL-FPs). Here, we show that menin recruits both wild-type MLL and oncogenic MLL-AF9 fusion protein to the loci of HOX genes to activate their transcription. Wild-type MLL not only catalyzes histone methylation at key target genes but also controls distinct MLL-AF9-induced histone methylation. Notably, the wild-type Mll allele is required for MLL-AF9-induced leukemogenesis and maintenance of MLL-AF9-transformed cells. These findings suggest an essential cooperation between an oncogene and its wild-type counterpart in MLL-AF9-induced leukemogenesis.
A classification of acute leukaemia for the 1990s.	The need for reproducibility in the classification of acute leukaemia has made it necessary to incorporate information derived from new techniques which have become essential for the study of these disorders. In addition to classic morphology and cytochemistry (FAB proposals), it is necessary to add immunology and cytogenetics (MIC proposals), as well as to investigate further the biological and diagnostic significance of molecular events. As a result of these investigations a new group of leukaemias merit recognition as distinct entities. These include three types of ALL with specific chromosome abnormalities, namely, i) t (9;22), ii) t (4;11) and iii) t (1;19) and four subtypes of AML, i) with minimal differentiation or AML-M0, ii) with basophilic precursors or M2Baso, iii) AML (M4/M5) with t (8;16) and iv) AML with trilineage myelodysplasia. Biphenotypic acute leukaemia constitutes also a distinct entity with features of ALL and AML and represents a malignancy probably affecting multipotent stem cells. We propose an objective evaluation system for biphenotypic leukaemias based on a score in which the various lineage markers are graded according to their known specificity.
The molecular biology of B-cell lymphoma: clinicopathologic implications.	Nonrandom chromosomal translocations like the t(14;18), t(8;14), and t(11;14) are found in distinct types of B-cell malignancies. Recent molecular studies concerning their structure and origin showed that many translocations occur in early precursor B cells and may be interpreted as aberrant immunoglobulin gene rearrangements. The available data from in vitro experiments, transgenic mice, and normal human individuals indicate that these translocations are essential but insufficient for full tumorigenesis. The consequent "multi-hit" concept might have important implications for the detection of minimal residual disease using the polymerase chain reaction for these translocations. The strong associations with specific types of lymphomas underline their differences in histogenetic origin. Thus, based on differences in bcl-1 and bcl-2 rearrangements, molecular analysis may help to distinguish follicular lymphoma from diffuse centrocytic lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Furthermore, based on differences in bcl-2 and c-myc rearrangements, subtypes of de novo centroblastic lymphoma can be distinguished that have striking differences in biological behavior, especially nodal versus extranodal presentation. Therefore, future studies will show an increasing clinical relevance of molecular analysis in B-cell neoplasia.
The rhombotin family of cysteine-rich LIM-domain oncogenes: distinct members are involved in T-cell translocations to human chromosomes 11p15 and 11p13.	A chromosomal translocation in a T-cell leukemia involving the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupts the rhombotin gene. This gene encodes a protein with duplicated cysteine-rich regions called LIM domains, which show homology to zinc-binding proteins and to iron-sulfur centers of ferredoxins. Two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now been isolated. One of these, designated Rhom-2, is located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13, where a cluster of T-cell leukemia-specific translocations occur; all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 are upstream of the Rhom-2 gene. Human and mouse Rhom-2 are highly conserved and, like rhombotin, encode two tandem cysteine-rich LIM domains. Rhom-2 mRNA is expressed in early mouse development in central nervous system, lung, kidney, liver, and spleen but only very low levels occur in thymus. The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin. Since the Rhom-2 gene is such a common site of chromosomal damage in T-cell tumors, the consistency of translocations near the rhombotin gene was further examined. A second translocation adjacent to rhombotin was found and at the same position as in the previous example. Therefore, chromosome bands 11p15 (rhombotin) and 11p13 (Rhom-2) are consistent sites of chromosome translocation in T-cell leukemia, with the 11p15 target more rarely involved. The results define the rhombotin gene family as a class of T-cell oncogenes with duplicated cysteine-rich LIM domains.
Uniparental heterodisomy for chromosome 14 in a phenotypically abnormal familial balanced 13/14 Robertsonian translocation carrier.	A 9-year-old mentally retarded girl with multiple congenital anomalies was found to carry a balanced 13/14 Robertsonian translocation [45,XX,t(13q14q)] which was also present in her father. Her mother carried a balanced reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 1 and 14 [46,XX,t(1;14) (q32;q32)]. Both of her parents were phenotypically normal. Molecular studies were carried out to determine the parental origin of chromosomes 1, 13, and 14 in the patient. Using probes for D14S13 and D14S22, we could show that the patient inherited both chromosomes 14 from her father and none from her mother. Similar studies using probes for chromosomes 1 (D1S76) and 13 (D13S37) loci showed the presence of both maternal and paternal alleles in the patient. Our findings indicate that paternal uniparental heterodisomy for chromosome 14 most likely accounts for the phenotypic abnormalities observed in our patient. It is suggested that uniparental disomy may be the basis for abnormal development in at least some phenotypically abnormal familial balanced-translocation carriers.
Localization of the translocation breakpoint in a female with Menkes syndrome to Xq13.2-q13.3 proximal to PGK-1.	Menkes syndrome is a rare X-linked recessive disorder characterized by an inability to metabolize copper. A female patient with both this disease and an X; autosome translocation with karyotype 46,X,t(X;2)(q13;q32.2) has previously been described. The translocation breakpoint in Xq13 coincides with a previous assignment of the Menkes gene at Xq13 by linkage data in humans and by analogy to the mottled mutations which are models for Menkes disease in the mouse. Therefore, this translocation probably interrupts the gene for Menkes syndrome in band Xq13. We describe here experiments to precisely map the translocation breakpoint within this chromosomal band. We have established a lymphoblastoid cell line from this patient and have used it to isolate the der(2) translocation chromosome (2pter----2q32::Xq13----Xqter) in human/hamster somatic cell hybrids. Southern blot analyses using a number of probes specific for chromosomes X and 2 have been studied to define precisely the location of the translocation breakpoint. Our results show that the breakpoint in this patient--and, therefore, likely the Menkes gene--maps to a small subregion of band Xq13.2-q13.3 proximal to the PGK1 locus and distal to all other Xq13 loci tested.
A case of cerebellar medulloblastoma with a single chromosome abnormality.	In the few published karyotypes of human medulloblastoma, multiple chromosome abnormalities have usually been demonstrated. We report a case of medulloblastoma in which only a single structural alteration was observed, namely an unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 1 and 6 resulting in partial 1q trisomy and partial 6q mnosomy. This finding may help define genomic regions that are of importance in development of medulloblastoma.
Aberrations of chromosome 6 in 193 newly diagnosed untreated cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Aberrations of chromosome 6 were observed in 11 of 193 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed January 1, 1984-November 1, 1988 and investigated cytogenetically within 30 days after diagnosis. The 6p was rearranged in 5 cases: 4 balanced and 1 unbalanced translocation. The 6q was involved in 6 cases: 4 deletions and 2 balanced translocations. Three of the del(6q) may be identical: del(6)(q13q27). In two cases there were no additional aberrations. Aberrations of chromosome 6 correlated significantly with an advanced clinical stage, diffuse pattern of bone marrow infiltration, and increased SmIgM-fluorescence intensity. All these factors are associated with poor prognosis. Although the number of cases with 6q aberrations is still too small and the observation period too short to show significant influence on survival, the presence of 6q aberrations at diagnosis may prove useful in delineating a subtype of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with poor prognosis.
Cytogenetic findings in cervical carcinoma. A statistical approach.	Cytogenetic analysis with banding techniques was attempted in 150 cervical carcinomas, including in situ carcinoma, large cell keratinizing tumors, large cell nonkeratinizing tumors, small cell nonkeratinizing tumors, and adenocarcinomas. Monte Carlo simulations were used to determine which numerical and structural aberrations were nonrandomly involved in the tumorous process and to attempt to correlate specific abnormalities with specific histologic types. Results showed that several chromosomes are nonrandomly involved in cervical carcinomas and that some are more specifically associated with particular histologic subtypes. Therefore, cervical carcinoma appear to include a large spectrum of malignancies, each particular histologic type involving different genes. If some cytogenetic changes may be considered general events related to the carcinogenesis process, other rearrangements are presumably more specific processes arising in more committed stem cells.
t(16;21)(p11.2;q22): a recurrent primary rearrangement in ANLL.	We have identified three patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), subtypes M2, M4, and M7, who had a t(16;21)(p11.2;q22) in the affected cells. There are six previously reported cases of ANLL with the same t(16;21). The t(6;21) should therefore be included as another primary rearrangement in ANLL. Follow-up of these cases, though still limited, suggests a poor prognosis, as most patients have achieved a clinical remission but only for a short duration.
Translocation 1;7 in hematologic disorders--a report of three further cases. Absence of amplification of the gene for the epidermal growth factor receptor.	We report three new cases with a hematologic disorder and the unbalanced translocation der(1)t(1;7)(p11;p11). It has been speculated that the gene for the epidermal growth factor receptor, localized to the short arm of chromosome 7, might be amplified in cases with this translocation. We have demonstrated that there is no amplification of this gene in these three cases.
Frequent occurrence of translocations of the short arm of chromosome 15 to other D-group chromosomes.	The presence of DA/DAPI (distamycin A/4,6-diamino-2-phenyl-indole) heteromorphism on the short arm of human acrocentric chromosomes was investigated in 127 individuals. In 7 cases, a DA/DAPI signal was observed on an acrocentric chromosome other than 15. Subsequently, in situ hybridization (ISH) with a pericentromeric probe specific for chromosome 15 was carried out. In all 7 cases, three ISH signals were present in every metaphase, i.e., on both chromosomes 15 and on the third DA/DAPI-fluorescence-positive acrocentric chromosome (a chromosome 13 or 14), indicating that a chromosome 15 short arm was also present on these chromosomes. Therefore, we conclude that translocations of short arm sequences from chromosome 15 onto other D-group chromosomes occur frequently. Moreover, it appears that DA/DAPI staining remains specific for the short arm of chromosome 15, despite a number of recent papers suggesting otherwise.
The physical map of chromosome arm 19q: some new assignments, confirmations and re-assessments.	We have constructed and analysed somatic cell hybrids from cell lines containing balanced reciprocal translocations involving chromosome 19 and providing two new breakpoints on 19q. These and other hybrids have been tested with a series of markers from 19q to enhance the existing map. Several new cloned DNA sequences that map to 19q13.3-19qter are reported; the locus D19Z1 has been analysed by CHEF gel electrophoresis.
The mouse polycystic kidney disease mutation (cpk) is located on proximal chromosome 12.	The mouse congenital polycystic kidney (cpk) mutation produces a condition that resembles human autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) in its pattern of inheritance, clinical progression, and histopathology. Inheritance of this mouse mutation in crosses segregating the Rb(12.14)8Rma translocation chromosome and various DNA markers of Chromosome 12 have localized cpk to a site near D12Nyu2, approximately 7 cM from the centromere of Chromosome 12. This result suggests that the homologous PKD2 gene should be localized to either human chromosome 2p23-p25 or chromosome 7q22-q31.
Frequency and structure of t(14;18) major breakpoint regions in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas typed according to the Kiel classification: analysis by direct DNA sequencing.	We have examined 165 unselected cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas for rearrangements involving the t(14;18) major breakpoint region using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and direct sequencing of amplified major breakpoint region bcl-2/JH junctional regions. The lymphomas, diagnosed according to the updated Kiel classification, consisted of 33 centroblastic-centrocytic, 37 centroblastic, 27 immunocytic, 10 immunoblastic, 10 centrocytic, 2 lymphoblastic, 2 Ki-1-positive anaplastic large cell, 14 peripheral T-cell, and 4 unclassified lymphomas. In addition 18 chronic lymphocytic leukemias, 2 hairy cell leukemias, and 6 plasmacytomas were studied. In 17 cases a bcl-2/JH gene fusion sequence was amplified by PCR. A bcl-2/JH gene fusion was detected only in three lymphoma subgroups: 13 of 33 centroblastic-centrocytic (39%), 2 of 37 centroblastic (6%), and 2 of 27 immunocytic (8%) were positive. In two cases, major breakpoint region bcl-2 rearrangements verified by genomic Southern analysis were not detected by PCR. Direct sequencing of all 17 PCR-amplified, previously uncharacterized t(14;18) junctional regions provided corroborating evidence for the specificity of the assay. The procedure gave sequencing results even from limited amounts of lymphoma cells as obtained by fine needle aspiration of lymph nodes or from clinically uninvolved sites. Clone-specific sequences were identified due to the involvement of different JH segments, the variations among the exact JH and bcl-2 breakpoint positions, and the extensive incorporation of junctional region (D-) N-nucleotides. These clone-specific sequences allow accurate identification of clinically occult lymphoma cells and reduce the threat of false positive results. The finding of exceptionally long intervening sequences in some of the junctions and the partial homology with published DH segments in three cases support the view that some of the putative N-regions harbor DH regions.
Novel t(15;19)(q15;p13) chromosome abnormality in a thymic carcinoma.	A 22-year-old female with a thymic carcinoma is reported. The tumor was refractory to both chemotherapy and irradiation. The patient died with an aggressive clinical course. Cytogenetic study showed that the tumor cells had a chromosome translocation, t(15;19)(q15;p13), which was not identified previously in human cancer.
Meiotic drive of t haplotypes: chromosome segregation in mice with tertiary trisomy.	The properties of the t haplotypes, specific mutant states of the proximal region of chromosomes 17 in the house mouse, are of continuing interest. One such property is increased transmission of the t haplotype by heterozygous t/+ males to offspring. Using the reciprocal translocation T(16;17)43H we have constructed males with tertiary trisomy of chromosome 17 (+T43/+ +/Rb7+) carrying the Robertsonian translocation Rb(16.17)7Bnr. Only the progeny of these males which had inherited either T43/+ or Rb7 from their male parent were viable. The segregation patterns in the offspring of t-bearing trisomics were analysed on days 16-18 of embryonic development. It was found that, when the t12 haplotype is in the normal acrocentric (males+ +T43/+ t12 + /Rb7+ +), its presence in the gamete +t12+/+ + T43 does not produce meiotic drive. However, when t6 is in Rb7, meiotic drive was observed: 80% of offspring carried the t haplotype. It is concluded that the meiotic drive is probably inhibited by the presence of a normal homologue of chromosome 17 in the same sperm. Possible mechanisms for the t haplotype effect are discussed.
Rearrangements of the tal-1 locus as clonal markers for T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Normal and aberrant immune receptor gene assembly each produce site-specific DNA rearrangements in leukemic lymphoblasts. In either case, these rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for the leukemias in question. In the t(1;14)(p34;q11) translocation associated with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), the breakpoints on chromosome 1 interrupt the tal-1 gene. A site-specific deletion interrupts the same gene in an additional 26% of T-ALL. Thus, nearly one-third of these leukemias contain clustered rearrangements of the tal-1 locus. To test whether these rearrangements can serve as markers for residual disease, we monitored four patients with T-ALL; three of the leukemias contained a deleted (tald) and one a translocated (talt) tal-1 allele. These alleles were recognized by a sensitive amplification/hybridization assay. tald alleles were found in the blood of one patient during the 4th mo of treatment but not thereafter. Using a quantitative assay to measure the fraction of tald alleles in DNA extracts, we estimated that this month 4 sample contained 150 tald copies per 10(6) genome copies. The patient with t(1;14)(p34;q11) (talt) leukemia developed a positive assay during the 20th mo of treatment. By standard criteria, all four patients remain in complete remission 11-20 mo into treatment. We conclude that tal-1 rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for approximately 30% of T-ALLs.
Clinical implications of gene expression profiling of acute myeloid leukemia.	Since the first demonstration in 1999 that gene expression profiling could distinguish between different variants of acute leukemia, several studies have analyzed patients with acute myeloid leukemia on the basis of cytogenetics, morphologic subgroups, secondary mutations such as FLT3, prognosis, and therapeutic response. This review examines some of these data and attempts to discuss whether these analyses will have clinical applications in diagnosis, prediction of prognosis and response to therapy, disease classification, or individually targeted therapy. It is probable that all these areas will reach the clinical environment eventually, but in the short to medium term, microarrays will be involved only in diagnosis.
Clinical manifestations and treatment of newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia in adults.	Adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a heterogeneous disease with distinct biologic and prognostic subgroups. The treatment of adults with ALL has evolved largely from the therapy developed for childhood ALL and, despite differences across regimens, can be broadly classified as including induction, consolidation, maintenance, and central nervous system prophylaxis. Although there has been marked improvement in the outcomes for pediatric patients with ALL, the same success has not yet been realized for adult patients. Some of this difference can be attributed to a greater incidence of unfavorable cytogenetic subtypes in adults than in children. In addition, the ability to tolerate intensive regimens likely plays a role. This article reviews the classification, prognostic features, current treatment programs, and new advances as applied to adult patients with newly diagnosed ALL.
The Oxford Grid.	The 'Oxford Grid' is a term used to denote a method of displaying homologous loci from two species. It may also be used as a basis for historical inferences relating to co-ancestry. These uses are discussed with special reference to man and mouse. It is inferred that as few as 30 reciprocal translocations are sufficient to explain the differences defined by the present grid and that the telocentric karyotype, through which the mouse differs from both man and many closely related rodents, including the rat, must have evolved mainly through the formation and suppression of centromeres rather than through pericentric inversions. Mouse and man share the widest distribution of any mammal and their success appears to be related to being omnivorous with behavioural modifications allowing a wide range of habitat.
Serum-free liquid marrow culture in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: a potential application to purge marrow for autologous transplantation.	We have previously established a serum-free (SF) culture medium, which supports normal haemopoietic progenitor cell growth for at least 4 weeks as does conventional serum dependent (SD) medium. In the present study, we investigated the efficacy of such a defined SF liquid medium which sustained in vitro residual normal haemopoietic proliferation of marrow derived from ALL patients and which was detrimental for the leukaemic population. Evidence for a potential selective effect of SF culture was obtained by a leukaemic progenitor cell assay (ALL-CFU) and the detection of the bcr/abl translocation by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In 13 experiments including 12 patients, morphological blast cells and ALL-CFU were dramatically reduced within 3 weeks of incubation in both SF and SD cultures. Likewise, in 5/5 experiments in SD and 2/5 experiments in SF conditions, leukaemic cells expressing the bcr/abl fusion gene disappeared within 3-4 weeks. In contrast, the absolute numbers of supernatant cells harvested weekly from SF and SD cultures were similar. No difference in CFU-GM production was detected for the two culture systems. Erythropoiesis in SF medium exhibited a slower decline than that found in SD. These results indicate that liquid marrow culture may selectively deplete leukaemic lymphoblastic cells and enable repopulation by residual normal haemopoietic cells. This technique may be useful to purge leukaemic cells for clinical autologous bone marrow transplantation in patients with ALL.
Intratumoral cytogenetic heterogeneity in a benign neoplasm.	Cytogenetic findings are reported in a 64-year-old man who had a history of rapid growth of a mass in the left groin area. The histopathologic diagnosis of the tumor was consistent with that of a lipoma with atypia. Cytogenetic analysis was done on an incisional biopsy specimen. The initial biopsy specimen revealed, in addition to normal cells, three different clones: 46,XY,t(12;21)(q13;q21), 46,XY, t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2), t(19;20)(q13.1'3), and 47.XY,+ r. The subsequently excised specimen showed a normal male karyotype (46,XY) and a predominant clone with the karyotype, 47,XY,t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2),t(3;11)(p24'5), + r. One cell with 47,XY, + r was present. In addition, polyploid cells with large markers, rings, and a high frequency of telomeric associations were also observed.
Karyotypic study of four gibbon forms provisionally considered as subspecies of Hylobates (Nomascus) concolor (Primates, Hylobatidae).	We report here a karyotypic study of 6 individuals of Hylobates concolor leucogenys, 2H, concolor siki, 3H, concolor gabriellae, 1 hybrid H, concolor leucogenys x H. concolor ski, 3 hybrid H. concolor gabriellae x H. concolor siki and 2 hybrid H. concolor hainanus x H. concolor leucogenys. Difficulties raised by the morphological identification of subspecies are discussed, and a new morphological characteristic for recognising female H. concolor gabriellae is described. Each of the 4 subspecies appears to be distinguishable on the basis of its karyotype: H. concolor leucogenys differs from H. concolor siki by a reciprocal translocation, from H. concolor hainanus by a pericentric inversion and from H. concolor gabriellae by the presence of both of these two rearrangements. However, these data do not allows us to identify a phylogenetic relationship between the subspecies because, with respect to the karyotypes, none occupies an ancestral position in comparison with the others.
Specific chromosomal changes in patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia from India.	We analysed forty consecutive patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) using methotrexate cell synchronization and 24 h-unstimulated cultures of bone marrow cells to determine the incidence of chromosomal aberrations and the association of specific anomalies with FAB morphological subtypes, in an Indian population. All patients demonstrated an abnormal karyotypic pattern. The specific chromosomal changes viz., t(9;22), t(8;21), t(15;17), t/del(11q), 12p- were found in M 1(3/5), M2(8/15), M3(8/8), M4(1/1) M5(2/4) and M2Ba(1/1) (M2 with Basophilia) patients. Abnormalities of 11q were also noted in two M2 patients showing monocytic involvement. A translocation involving chromosomes 6 and 9 was seen in one patient with M1 and two patients with M2. An inv(16) was observed in M1 (one case), M2 (two cases) and M6 (one case). A del(16) was noted in an M4 case. Although t(9;22) is frequently associated with M1 patients, it was also detected in M2 (two patients) and M4 (one patient). Among all the FAB specific anomalies described above, t(8;21) and t(15;17) were observed only in M2 and M3 patients, respectively. Interestingly, one M2 patient had two independent clones, one with t(8;21) and t(9;11). Deletion or translocation involving 11q was found in a Ph positive M4 patient. New structural rearrangements such as t(1;7) (q32;q36) in association with t(8;21), and t(14;22) (q32;q11) in association with del(11)(q23) were detected in a M2 and a M5 patient, respectively. In conclusion, our studies have revealed that the incidence of FAB specific abnormalities viz., t(8;21); t(15;17), t(9;22), t/del(11q) and also other recurrent anomalies viz., -7/7q-, +8 is much higher in our patients, as compared with other countries. This difference may be attributed to the influence of differential environmental exposure to unknown carcinogenic agents.
Immunocytochemical identification of nuclear estrogen-receptors in human acute myeloid leukemia.	The peripheral and bone marrow blast cells of twenty patients newly-diagnosed as acute myeloid leukemia (AML), subtypes M1-M5, were analysed for the presence of estrogen-receptors by ER-ICA immunocytochemistry and dextran-coated charcoal cytosolic (DCC) assay. Two patients demonstrated myeloblasts with nuclear staining patterns consistent with the presence of estrogen-receptors. The positive immuno-staining results were confirmed by DCC in one patient with AML, subtype M4. This patient demonstrated an unusual myeloblast karyotype with a reciprocal translocation t(6;11)(q27;q23.3) involving the designated locus of the ESR gene on chromosome 6 (6q24-qter). The abnormal juxtaposition of DNA control elements close to the promoter of the ESR gene may be one mechanism by which aberrant synthesis of estrogen-receptor protein can occur to provide a growth advantage for leukemia cell clones.
Factors contributing to chromosome damage in lymphocytes of cigarette smokers.	Cigarette smoking is generally believed to be responsible for a substantial number of human health problems. However, the causal relationship between smoking, the induction of biological effects and the extent of health problems among smokers have not been fully documented. Using the recently developed lymphocyte micronucleus (MN) assay, we have evaluated the chromosome aberration frequencies in 67 cigarette smokers and 59 matched non-smoking control subjects. We found that the mean MN frequency (per 100 cells) in the smokers was slightly higher than that found in the non-smokers (0.71 +/- 0.23 and 0.58 +/- 0.05 respectively; p less than 0.08). Factors which contribute to the expression of chromosome aberrations were also investigated. A significant age-dependent increase in MN frequencies was observed in both groups (p less than 0.05). Linear regression analysis showed that the age-dependent effects among smokers (r = 0.54; p less than 0.02) was further enhanced by cigarette consumption (r = 0.62; p less than 0.005). Consumption of low potency 'one-a-day' type multivitamins had no effect on MN frequencies in either sex of non-smokers and in the 1 male smoker who took multivitamins but vitamin intake consistently reduced the MN frequencies among female smokers. Using a challenge assay, fidelity of DNA repair was evaluated. Lymphocytes from both smokers and non-smokers were irradiated with single doses of 0 or 100 cGy of X-rays or with double doses of 100 cGy of X-rays each separated by 15 or 60 min (100/15 or 100/60). Chromosome translocation frequencies were consistently higher after irradiation in lymphocytes from smokers than in those from non-smokers. Statistically significant differences were detected when the cells were irradiated with the double doses of 100 cGy X-rays each separated by 60 min (p less than 0.05). These data suggest that lymphocytes from smokers made more mistakes in the repair of DNA damage than cells from non-smokers. Our studies provide new insights into the genotoxic effects of cigarette smoke and new information which may be useful for understanding the mechanisms for induction of health problems from smoking.
Molecular insights into the Philadelphia translocation.	The Ph chromosome was the first specific karyotype abnormality associated with a particular neoplastic disease in humans. For many years it was suspected that chromosome abnormalities might cause cancer by alteration of specific genes or their expression. Significant recent developments in our understanding of the molecular consequences of the Ph translocation strengthen that assumption. The Ph translocation generates a hybrid gene consisting of 5' regulatory, promotor, and exon sequences of the bcr gene on chromosome 22 fused to 3' exons and polyadenylation/termination sequences of the ABL proto-oncogene from chromosome 9. It is well established that fusion of bcr and abl genes plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of CML and ALL. Molecular methods can therefore be used as diagnostic tools to detect the Ph chromosome. Presently, the model of oncogenesis provided by our knowledge of how the abl proto-oncogene becomes activated as a result of the Ph translocation is one of the clearest models of oncogene activation. Despite the progress made, many areas remain to be explored. One important question is, how the hybrid protein is involved in leukemia. Research aimed at investigating the normal function of abl and bcr may be important in efforts to understand their abnormal functioning in leukemia and to increase our understanding of the disease.
Loss of genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 12 is a frequent secondary abnormality in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Abnormalities of the short arm of chromosome 12 have been detected in a wide variety of hematopoietic disorders. Seven cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) are reported with various rearrangements involving bands 12p13 or 12p11, associated with other chromosome changes. A review of the literature confirms that rearrangements of 12p, mainly at band 12p13, are nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in all subtypes of NHL, as in other malignant blood disorders. No common translocation could, however, be detected, and 12p abnormalities may be considered as secondary chromosomal events. Most of the 12p rearrangements involving translocation of genetic material of unknown origin, suggest that they result in loss of 12p segment.
Heterozygous effects on fitness of EMS-treated chromosomes in Drosophila melanogaster.	The heterozygous effects on fitness of second chromosomes carrying mutants induced with different doses of EMS were ascertained by monitoring changes in chromosome frequencies over time. These changes were observed in populations in which the treated chromosomes, as well as untreated competitors, remained heterozygous in males generation after generation. This situation was achieved by using a translocation which links the second chromosome to the X chromosome; however, only untranslocated second chromosomes were mutagenized. Chromosomes were classified according to their effects on viability in homozygous condition. A preliminary homozygosis identified completely lethal chromosomes; secondary tests distinguished between drastic (viability index < 0.1) and nondrastic chromosomes. Chromosomes that were nondrastic after treatment were found to reduce the fitness of their heterozygous carriers by 3-5%. The data show that flies homozygous for these chromosomes were about 2.7% less viable per treatment with 1 mm EMS than flies homozygous for untreated chromosomes. By comparing the fitness-depressing effects of nondrastic EMS-induced mutants in heterozygous condition with the corresponding viability-depressing effects measured by Temin, it is apparent that the total fitness effects are several times larger than the viability effects alone. Completely lethal chromosomes derived from the most heavily treated material reduced fitness by 11% in heterozygous condition; approximately half of this reduction was due to the lethal mutations themselves.
A chromosomal translocation causing overproduction of iso-2-cytochrome c in yeast.	The CYC7-1 mutation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae causes the production of approximately 30 times the normal amount of iso-2-cytochrome c. Genetic analysis established that the CYC7-1 mutation is a reciprocal translocation involving the left arm of chromosome V and the right arm of chromosome XVI. The chromosome V arm was broken adjacent to the gene CYC7, which determines the primary structure of iso-2-cytochrome c, and this fragment containing the CYC7 gene was joined to the segment of chromosome XVI. It appears as though the elevation of iso-2-cytochrome c is caused by an abnormal controlling region adjacent to the structural region of the CYC7 gene.
Regional mapping on human genes for phosphoglucomutase-1 on chromosome 1 and beta-glucuronidase on chromosome 7 using mouse x human hybrids.	Two independent mouse-human somatic cell hybrid clones contained different, de novo chromosome rearrangements involving the short arm of human chromosome 1. One hybrid clone contained a translocation between human chromosomes 1 and 7; the other clone contained a rearrangement product between human chromosomes 1 and 14. Analysis of these clones for expression of genes previously assigned to chromosome 7 and to the short arm of chromosome 1 provided evidence for localization of PGM--1 in segment 1p22.1 leads to 1p31.1, AK--2, ENO--1 and UMPK in region 1pter leads to 1p31.1, and GUS in region 7 pter leads to 7q22. The results have been used to examine the relationship between cytologic and genetic map distances on the short arm of chromosome 1.
Nuclear positioning, higher-order folding, and gene expression of Mmu15 sequences are refractory to chromosomal translocation.	Nuclear localization influences the expression of certain genes. Chromosomal rearrangements can reposition genes in the nucleus and thus could impact the expression of genes far from chromosomal breakpoints. However, the extent to which chromosomal rearrangements influence nuclear organization and gene expression is poorly understood. We examined mouse progenitor B cell lymphomas with a common translocation, der(12)t(12;15), which fuses a gene-rich region of mouse chromosome 12 (Mmu 12) with a gene-poor region of mouse chromosome 15 (Mmu 15). We found that sequences 2.3 Mb proximal and 2.7 Mb distal to the der(12)t(12;15) breakpoint had different nuclear positions measured relative to the nuclear radius. However, their positions were similar on unrearranged chromosomes in the same tumor cells and normal progenitor B cells. In addition, higher-order chromatin folding marked by three-dimensional gene clustering was not significantly altered for the 7 Mb of Mmu 15 sequence distal to this translocation breakpoint. Translocation also did not correspond to significant changes in gene expression in this region. Thus, any changes to Mmu 15 structure and function imposed by the der(12)t(12;15) translocation are constrained to sequences near (<2.5 Mb) the translocation junction. These data contrast with those of certain other chromosomal rearrangements and suggest that significant changes to Mmu 15 sequence are structurally and functionally tolerated in the tumor cells examined.
Hormonal and ultrasound markers of ovarian function in a woman with a balanced 1;11 translocation.	To present a case of a poor responder woman with a rare balanced autosomal translocation.
Discovery of recurrent t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) translocations in ALK-negative anaplastic large cell lymphomas by massively parallel genomic sequencing.	The genetics of peripheral T-cell lymphomas are poorly understood. The most well-characterized abnormalities are translocations involving ALK, occurring in approximately half of anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs). To gain insight into the genetics of ALCLs lacking ALK translocations, we combined mate-pair DNA library construction, massively parallel ("Next Generation") sequencing, and a novel bioinformatic algorithm. We identified a balanced translocation disrupting the DUSP22 phosphatase gene on 6p25.3 and adjoining the FRA7H fragile site on 7q32.3 in a systemic ALK-negative ALCL. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that the t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) was recurrent in ALK-negative ALCLs. Furthermore, t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) was associated with down-regulation of DUSP22 and up-regulation of MIR29 microRNAs on 7q32.3. These findings represent the first recurrent translocation reported in ALK-negative ALCL and highlight the utility of massively parallel genomic sequencing to discover novel translocations in lymphoma and other cancers.
High IGSF4 expression in pediatric M5 acute myeloid leukemia with t(9;11)(p22;q23).	Pediatric mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL)-rearranged acute monoblastic leukemia with t(9;11)(p22;q23) has a favorable outcome compared with other MLL-rearranged AML. The biologic background for this difference remains unknown. Therefore, we compared gene expression profiles (GEPs; Affymetrix HGU133 + 2.0) of 26 t(9;11)(p22;q23) patients with 42 other MLL-rearranged AML patients to identify differentially expressed genes. IGSF4, a cell-cell adhesion molecule, was found to be highly expressed in t(9;11)(p22;q23) patients, which was confirmed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. IGSF4 expression within t(9;11)(p22;q23) patients was 4.9 times greater in French-American-British morphology classification (FAB)-M5 versus other FAB-types (P = .001). Methylation status investigation showed that high IGSF4-expressing t(9;11)(p22;q23) patients with FAB-M5 have no promoter hypermethylation, whereas all other cases do. Cell-line incubation with demethylating agent decitabine resulted in promoter demethylation and increased expression of IGSF4. Down-regulation of IGSF4 by siRNA did not affect proliferation or drug sensitivity. In a cohort of 79 MLL-rearranged AML cases, we show significant better overall survival for cases with high IGSF4 expression (5-year overall survival 0.70 vs 0.37, P = .03) In conclusion, we identified IGSF4 overexpression to be discriminative for t(9;11)(p22;q23) patients with FAB-M5, regulated partially by promoter methylation and resulting in survival benefit.
Infectious bronchitis viruses with naturally occurring genomic rearrangement and gene deletion.	Infectious bronchitis viruses (IBVs) are group III coronaviruses that infect poultry worldwide. Genetic variations, including whole-gene deletions, are key to IBV evolution. Australian subgroup 2 IBVs contain sequence insertions and multiple gene deletions that have resulted in a substantial genomic divergence from international IBVs. The genomic variations present in Australian IBVs were investigated and compared to those of another group III coronavirus, turkey coronavirus (TCoV). Open reading frames (ORFs) found throughout the genome of Australian IBVs were analogous in sequence and position to TCoV ORFs, except for ORF 4b, which appeared to be translocated to a different position in the subgroup 2 strains. Subgroup 2 strains were previously reported to lack genes 3a, 3b and 5a, with some also lacking 5b. Of these, however, genes 3b and 5b were found to be present but contained various mutations that may affect transcription. In this study, it was found that subgroup 2 IBVs have undergone a more substantial genomic rearrangements than previously thought.
Identification of new susceptibility regions for X;Y translocations in patients with testicular disorder of sex development.	Testicular disorder of sex development in the presence of a 46,XX karyotype is a rare condition. In most instances, it is caused by an X;Y translocation in the paternal gametes, causing SRY to be transferred on the X chromosome. An abnormal recombination event between homologous genes PRKX and PRKY is implicated in approximately one third of the cases. In this study, we report the characterization by fluorescence in situ hybridization of four patients with a 46,X,der(X)t(X;Y) constitution: two monozygotic adult twins, one adult male and a young boy. Molecular cytogenetic analyses using BAC clones specific to the X and Y chromosomes revealed that the translocation is not mediated by an abnormal PRKX-PRKY recombination event in any of our patients. On the other hand, the twins and the adult male have similar breakpoints, having almost the entire short arm of the Y chromosome translocated on their der(X). On their der(X) chromosome, breakpoints are located close to PRKX, in an interval of less than 200 kb. As for the young boy, his breakpoints are located approximately 300 kb proximal to SRY, in Yp11.31, and at the beginning of the pseudoautosomal region in Xp22.33. Our data suggest that some regions are prone to breakage on the sex chromosomes and that these regions represent possible hot spots for X;Y translocations that are not mediated by abnormal recombination.
Genome organization influences partner selection for chromosomal rearrangements.	Chromosomal rearrangements occur as a consequence of the erroneous repair of DNA double-stranded breaks, and often underlie disease. The recurrent detection of specific tumorigenic rearrangements suggests that there is a mechanism behind chromosomal partner selection involving the shape of the genome. With the advent of novel high-throughput approaches, detailed genome integrity and folding maps are becoming available. Integrating these data with knowledge of experimentally induced DNA recombination strongly suggests that partner choice in chromosomal rearrangement primarily follows the three-dimensional conformation of the genome. Local rearrangements are favored over distal and interchromosomal rearrangements. This is seen for neutral rearrangements, but not necessarily for rearrangements that drive oncogenesis. The recurrent detection of tumorigenic rearrangements probably reflects their exceptional capacity to confer growth advantage to the rare cells that contain them. The abundant presence of neutral rearrangements suggests that somatic genome variation is also common in healthy tissue.
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma: a five-decade journey.	Several decades after a comprehensive description of mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC), there is no uniformly accepted grading system. The most recent debate regarding the histologic grading of MECs, centers on the wide range of reported prevalence of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-regulated transcription coactivator (CRTC1-MAML2) rearrangement in high-grade (HG) MECs. We hypothesize that difficulties in morphologic classification may partially explain problems in grading MECs. We believe that HG MECs, as diagnosed over the last several decades, represent a blend of true MECs with unrelated clinicopathologic entities. To examine the historic aspects of this problem, and to identify neoplasms that most commonly mimic "high-grade" MEC, we reviewed 46 cases of alleged MEC diagnosed in our department from 1956 to 1974. The diagnosis of MEC was confirmed in 22 cases and was changed in 24 cases. Compared to cases of confirmed MEC, cases with changed diagnoses had higher incidence of lymph node metastases, perineural invasion, and shorter overall survival. Adenosquamous carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and salivary duct carcinoma emerged as the most common mimics of HG MEC. The single most common diagnostic issue in these cases is the level of keratinization acceptable for MEC. Twenty cases of confirmed MEC were tested for CRTC1-MAML2 rearrangement and 5 low-grade MECs, 7 intermediate grade MECs, and 2 cases of HG MEC were translocation-positive.
Molecular technologies to improve the effectiveness of the sterile insect technique.	The application of the Sterile Insect Technique (SIT) in area-wide integrated pest management (AW-IPM) programmes continues to increase. However, programme efficiency can still be considerably enhanced when certain components of the technology are improved, such as the development of improved strains for mass rearing and release. These include strains that (1) produce only male insects for sterilization and release and (2) carry easily identifiable markers to identify released sterile insects in the field. Using both classical and modern biotechnology techniques, key insect pests are targeted, where SIT programmes are being implemented. The pests include mosquitoes, the Mexican fruit fly, the codling moth, the oriental fruit fly and the pink bollworm. This special issue summarizes the results of research efforts aimed at the development and evaluation of new strains to a level where a decision can be made as to their suitability for use in large scale SIT programmes. Major beneficiaries will be operational AW-IPM programmes that apply the SIT against major insect pests.
MALT lymphoma: many roads lead to nuclear factor-b activation.	Extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma is characterized genetically by several recurrent, but mutually exclusive, chromosome translocations. To date, it has been shown that at least the oncogenic products of t(1;14)(p22;q32)/BCL10-IGH, t(14;18)(q32;21)/IGH-MALT1 and t(11;18)(q21;q21)/API2-MALT1 activate the nuclear factor (NF)-B activation pathway. Recently, A20, an essential global NF-B inhibitor, was found to be inactivated by somatic deletion and/or mutation in translocation-negative MALT lymphomas. However, these genetic abnormalities alone are not sufficient for malignant transformation and thus need to cooperate with other factors in MALT lymphomagenesis. Recent studies have shown steady, exciting progresses in our understanding of the biological functions of BCL10, MALT1 and A20 in the regulation of the NF-B activation pathways and the biology of lymphocytes. This review discusses the implication of these recent advances in the molecular pathogenesis of MALT lymphoma, and explores how the above genetic abnormalities cooperate with immunological stimulation in the development of lymphoma.
Liposarcoma arising in uterine lipoleiomyoma: a report of 3 cases and review of the literature.	Primary sarcomas of the uterus are uncommon, leiomyosarcoma being the most frequent. Most uterine sarcomas arise de novo, with malignant transformation of a benign mesenchymal tumor being a very rare event, and is reported only in leiomyomata.
Biological properties of androgen receptor pure antagonist for treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer: optimization from lead compound to CH5137291.	Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is still dependent on androgen receptor (AR) signaling. We previously reported that a novel nonsteroidal AR pure antagonist, CH4933468, which is a thiohydantoin derivative with a sulfonamide side chain, provided in vitro proof of concept but did not in vivo.
Do female translocations influence the ovarian response pattern to controlled ovarian stimulation in preimplantation genetic diagnosis?	Ovarian response in female translocation carriers is not well understood. We aimed to evaluate the impact of chromosomal autosomal balanced translocations on the ovarian response to controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) in female carriers undergoing IVF and PGD.
Human balanced translocation and mouse gene inactivation implicate Basonuclin 2 in distal urethral development.	We studied a man with distal hypospadias, partial anomalous pulmonary venous return, mild limb-length inequality and a balanced translocation involving chromosomes 9 and 13. To gain insight into the etiology of his birth defects, we mapped the translocation breakpoints by high-resolution comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), using chromosome 9- and 13-specific tiling arrays to analyze genetic material from a spontaneously aborted fetus with unbalanced segregation of the translocation. The chromosome 13 breakpoint was 400 kb away from the nearest gene, but the chromosome 9 breakpoint fell within an intron of Basonuclin 2 (BNC2), a gene that encodes an evolutionarily conserved nuclear zinc-finger protein. The BNC2/Bnc2 gene is abundantly expressed in developing mouse and human periurethral tissues. In all, 6 of 48 unrelated subjects with distal hypospadias had nine novel nonsynonymous substitutions in BNC2, five of which were computationally predicted to be deleterious. In comparison, two of 23 controls with normal penile urethra morphology, each had a novel nonsynonymous substitution in BNC2, one of which was predicted to be deleterious. Bnc2(-/-) mice of both sexes displayed a high frequency of distal urethral defects; heterozygotes showed similar defects with reduced penetrance. The association of BNC2 disruption with distal urethral defects and the gene's expression pattern indicate that it functions in urethral development.
PTPRF is disrupted in a patient with syndromic amastia.	The presence of mammary glands distinguishes mammals from other organisms. Despite significant advances in defining the signaling pathways responsible for mammary gland development in mice, our understanding of human mammary gland development remains rudimentary. Here, we identified a woman with bilateral amastia, ectodermal dysplasia and unilateral renal agenesis. She was found to have a chromosomal balanced translocation, 46,XX,t(1;20)(p34.1;q13.13). In addition to characterization of her clinical and cytogenetic features, we successfully identified the interrupted gene and studied its consequences.
Molecular diagnosis in Ewing family tumors: the Rizzoli experience--222 consecutive cases in four years.	The Ewing's family of tumors (EFTs) are characterized by chimeric transcripts generated by specific chromosomal rearrangements. The most common fusions are between the EWSR1 gene on chromosome 22 and the ETS family of transcription factors; rarely, FUS (on chromosome 16) substitutes for EWSR1. The detection of specific translocations using molecular analysis is now a routine part of the pathological examination of EFT. Here, we report our experience with molecular diagnosis of EFT during the 4 years (2006-2009) at the Rizzoli Institute. We analyzed 222 consecutive tumors with a presumptive diagnosis of EFT using molecular techniques and IHC. We found five distinct types of EWSR1-FLI1 fusion transcripts resulting from translocation t(11;22), three types of EWSR1-ERG transcripts resulting from t(21;22), and one type of t(2;22) resulting in EWSR1-FEV fusion. Molecular investigation validated 92% of cases ultimately diagnosed as EFT; IHC validated 76% of the cases. Thus, despite the difficulties and limitations associated with both molecular and IHC analysis on fresh and formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue, a combination of these techniques is the best approach to enhancing the accuracy of EFT diagnosis. We also present our method for choosing which molecular techniques to apply. Finally, we collected the most prevalent breakpoints reported in the literature, indicating which exons are involved, the sequence breakpoints, and the NCBI reference sequences.
Translocation of an antibody transgene requires AID and occurs by interchromosomal switching to all switch regions except the mu switch region.	Immunoglobulin (Ig) class switch recombination (CSR) occurs most often by intrachromosomal recombinations between switch (S) regions located on a single chromosome, but it can also occur by interchomosomal recombinations between Ig heavy chain (Igh) S regions located on chomosomal homologs. Interchromosomal recombinations have also been found between chromosomes that are not homologs; examples are Igh/c-myc and Igh/transgene translocations. Most, but not all, studies have indicated that activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is important in Igh/c-myc translocations. The role of AID has not been determined for Igh/transgene translocations. We now show that the majority of Igh/transgene translocations between non-homologs from an Ig transgenic mouse are dependent on AID, but we also find a small number of these translocations that can occur in the absence of AID. Surprisingly, our results also indicate that, although S switch sequences in the endogenous Igh locus participate in chromosomal translocations with the non-homolog transgene-bearing chromosome, S switch sequences do not. This contrasts with the fact that both endogenous S and S sequences participate in intrachromosomal CSR. Our findings suggest the operation of a regulatory mechanism that can differentially control the accessibility of S and S regions for non-homolog translocations even when both are accessible for intrachromosomal recombination.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma carrying both t(3 ; 7)(q27 ; p12) and t(8 ; 14)(q24 ; q32).	We report a 60-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma harboring both t(3 ; 7)(q27 ; p12) and t(8 ; 14)(q24 ; q32). Although he received six courses of conventional combination chemotherapy plus rituximab, early relapse occurred. Four courses of an intensive salvage regimen and high-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation were performed. The patient has remained in complete remission for over 24 months. This case is noteworthy because both genetic abnormalities are implicated in lymphomagenesis.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia with t(14;19)(q32;q13) is characterized by atypical morphologic and immunophenotypic features and distinctive genetic features.	The t(14;19)(q32;q13) involving the IGH@ and BCL3 loci is an infrequent cytogenetic abnormality detected in B-cell malignancies. We describe the clinicopathologic, cytogenetic, and molecular genetic characteristics of 14 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) with t(14;19)(q32;q13). All patients (10 men and 4 women) had lymphocytosis; 10 had lymphadenopathy. Blood and bone marrow lymphocytes were predominantly small, but cytologically and immunophenotypically atypical. In all cases, t(14;19) was found in the neoplastic stem line; it was the sole abnormality in 4. Ten cases showed additional cytogenetic abnormalities, including trisomy 12 in 9 and complex karyotypes in 7. Fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated IGH@/BCL3 fusion gene in all cases. In all cases, the IGHV genes were unmutated, but only 7 expressed ZAP70. Seven cases preferentially used IGHV4-39. Our results indicate that t(14;19)(q32;q13) identifies a subset of CLL/SLL with distinctive clinicopathologic and genetic features. Furthermore, t(14;19) may represent an early, possibly primary, genetic event.
Genomic alterations in myeloid neoplasms with novel, apparently balanced translocations.	Characterization of gross chromosomal rearrangements, particularly translocations in neoplasms, has proven to be valuable in patient management by aiding in diagnosis, defining prognosis, and leading to new therapeutic interventions. In this report, we investigate two apparently balanced translocations, t(6;17)(q23.3;p13.3) and t(2;13)(p21;q14.11), in patients with myeloid neoplasms and uncover concomitant microdeletions associated with the breakpoints. Breakpoint mapping by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) detected deletions at or adjacent to all breakpoints. Subsequently, array comparative genomic hybridization on the 244 K Agilent platform refined the deletion boundaries, revealing a 1.7 Mb deletion directly adjacent to the 6q23.3 breakpoint, and a 562 kb deletion at 17p13.3 in the first case. The second case was found to harbor a 195 kb deletion at 2p21 and a 1.4 Mb deletion distal to the 13q breakpoint at 13q14.3. Additionally, a 133 kb deletion within the breakpoint region at 13q14.11 and a 265 kb deletion proximal to the breakpoint were discovered, neither of which was detected by FISH. Although a gene fusion resulting from either novel rearrangement cannot be determined from these data, formation of a fusion transcript cannot be excluded because the resolution of the techniques used does not allow definite delineation of the breakpoint locations. Although the incidence and clinical relevance of these focal imbalances remains to be evaluated, the cases presented here support high resolution evaluation of presumably balanced rearrangements in neoplasms. Such imbalances may portend important hitherto unrecognized prognostic and diagnostic categories.
Identification of the TAF15-ZNF384 fusion gene in two new cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia with a t(12;17)(p13;q12).	We report the clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular data of two patients diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by the rare translocation t(12;17)(p13;q12). This translocation has been reported in 25 cases and its putative molecular consequence, the formation of a TAF15-ZNF384 fusion gene, in only six cases. We used fluorescence in situ hybridization followed by long-range polymerase chain reaction to find the translocation breakpoints. A fusion between TAF15 and ZNF384 was identified and confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. Our results confirm that the t(12;17)(p13;q12) leading to a TAF15-ZNF384 fusion gene characterizes a specific subgroup of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and suggest that two different breakpoints in TAF15 may be involved. Whether the two variants of the TAF15-ZNF384 fusion that these correspond to are in any way hematologically or prognostically different, is unknown.
Unbalanced translocations of 20q in AML and MDS often involve interstitial rather than terminal deletions of 20q.	Dicentric chromosomes can occur in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia. As these unbalanced rearrangements often combine two recurrent deletions, they could be an efficient mechanism for the loss of two tumor suppressor genes in a single step. We report here that dicentric chromosomes involving chromosome 20 with loss of the 20q12 putative tumor suppressor gene are often the result of more complex rearrangements, with the 20q12 region being lost by an interstitial deletion independent of the site of translocation. We found interstitial deletions of 20q in two thirds of the two-way translocations tested. This points to a more complex mechanism of translocation involving at least three breakpoints and two separate events, and raises questions about the order of these events and the significance of these abnormalities.
CD5-positive, cyclinD1-negative mantle cell lymphoma with a translocation involving the CCND2 gene and the IGL locus.	Distinguishing mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), from low-grade B-cell lymphoma is important because MCL is clinically more aggressive and is treated differently. Though most MCL overexpress cyclinD1 (CCND1) and have a t(11;14)(q13;q32), MCL that are negative for CCND1 exist. Some have translocations involving cyclinD2 (CCND2) and either the immunoglobulin heavy chain or kappa light chain locus. We present a CD5-positive, CCND1-negative B-cell lymphoma with a novel translocation involving CCND2 and the immunoglobulin lambda (IGL) gene. A 64-year-old male underwent resection of a polypoid mass of the ileum. Histology showed atypical, medium-sized lymphoid cells positive for CD20, CD5, CD43, and CCND2 by immunohistochemistry, and negative for CCND1, CCND3, and p27. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was negative for CCND1 abnormalities, but demonstrated a CCND2/IGL fusion. Clinical workup revealed stage IV disease. Current diagnostic criteria are insufficient for subclassifying this case, highlighting the need for additional studies on CCND2-translocated B-cell lymphomas to guide therapy appropriately.
Development of t(8;21) and RUNX1-RUNX1T1 in the Philadelphia-positive clone of a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia: additional evidence for multiple steps involved in disease progression.	A 65-year-old patient with a high hemoglobin and hematocrit was treated for 14 months with therapeutic phlebotomy when cytogenetics of bone marrow revealed 100% cells with the Ph chromosome and 45% of the Ph+ cells contained trisomy 8. Treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors did not reduce the BCR-ABL1 fusion positive clone. Instead, the Ph positive cells acquired further the t(8;21)/RUNX1-RUNX1T1, del(4q) and trisomy 15 chromosomal abnormalities which were resistant to further treatment. Literature review revealed eight other patients who either had t(9;22) and t(8;21) simultaneously or developed t(8;21) in the Ph positive clone. We conclude that there are rare patients with CML who either present in blast crisis with coexistence of t(9;22) and t(8;21) with or without +8, or progress to blast crisis with acquiring RUNX1-RUNX1T1 in the BCR-ABL1 clone which may or may not be therapy related and represent a later event in a multistep pathogenesis.
Polyploid formation pathways have an impact on genetic rearrangements in resynthesized Brassica napus.	 Polyploids can be produced by the union of unreduced gametes or through somatic doubling of F(1) interspecific hybrids. The first route is suspected to produce allopolyploid species under natural conditions, whereas experimental data have only been thoroughly gathered for the latter.  We analyzed the meiotic behavior of an F(1) interspecific hybrid (by crossing Brassica oleracea and B.rapa, progenitors of B.napus) and the extent to which recombined homoeologous chromosomes were transmitted to its progeny. These results were then compared with results obtained for a plant generated by somatic doubling of this F hybrid (CD.S) and an amphidiploid (UG.S) formed via a pathway involving unreduced gametes; we studied the impact of this method of polyploid formation on subsequent generations.  This study revealed that meiosis of the F interspecific hybrid generated more gametes with recombined chromosomes than did meiosis of the plant produced by somatic doubling, although the size of these translocations was smaller. In the progeny of the UG.S plant, there was an unexpected increase in the frequency at which the C1 chromosome was replaced by the A1 chromosome.  We conclude that polyploid formation pathways differ in their genetic outcome. Our study opens up perspectives for the understanding of polyploid origins.
Chromosomal aberrations +1q21 and del(17p13) predict survival in patients with recurrent multiple myeloma treated with lenalidomide and dexamethasone.	In the era of novel agents such as lenalidomide and bortezomib, risk stratification by chromosomal abnormalities may enable a more rational selection of therapeutic approaches in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).
Single-molecule analysis of genome rearrangements in cancer.	Rearrangements of the genome can be detected by microarray methods and massively parallel sequencing, which identify copy-number alterations and breakpoint junctions, but these techniques are poorly suited to reconstructing the long-range organization of rearranged chromosomes, for example, to distinguish between translocations and insertions. The single-DNA-molecule technique HAPPY mapping is a method for mapping normal genomes that should be able to analyse genome rearrangements, i.e. deviations from a known genome map, to assemble rearrangements into a long-range map. We applied HAPPY mapping to cancer cell lines to show that it could identify rearrangement of genomic segments, even in the presence of normal copies of the genome. We could distinguish a simple interstitial deletion from a copy-number loss at an inversion junction, and detect a known translocation. We could determine whether junctions detected by sequencing were on the same chromosome, by measuring their linkage to each other, and hence map the rearrangement. Finally, we mapped an uncharacterized reciprocal translocation in the T-47D breast cancer cell line to about 2kb and hence cloned the translocation junctions. We conclude that HAPPY mapping is a versatile tool for determining the structure of rearrangements in the human genome.
Molecular diagnostics of soft tissue tumors.	Soft tissue pathology encompasses a remarkably diverse assortment of benign and malignant soft tissue tumors. Rendering a definitive diagnosis is complicated not only by the large volume of existing histologic subtypes (>100) but also frequently by the presence of overlapping clinical, histologic, immunohistochemical, and/or radiographic features. During the past 3 decades, mesenchymal tumor-specific, cytogenetic and molecular genetic abnormalities have demonstrated an increasingly important, ancillary role in mesenchymal tumor diagnostics.
14q+ marker chromosome in an EBV-genome-negative lymph node without signs of malignancy in a patient with EBV-genome-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	In a patient with an EBV-genome-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma, an EBV-genome-negative inguinal lymph node without histological evidence of malignant lymphoma or metastatic carcinoma growth was found to contain a 14q+ marker chromosome, identified as an 8;14 translocation, in all cells analyzed. This observation indicates that chromosome aberrations may precede histological signs of malignancy. The possible implication of this finding in relation to the postulated role of the 14q+ marker and lymphoma development is discussed.
The only proposed T-cell epitope derived from the TEL-AML1 translocation is not naturally processed.	Adoptive therapy with T-cell receptor (TCR)-engineered T cells is a promising approach in cancer treatment. While usage of T cells specific for tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) can lead to serious side effects because of autoimmunity, targeting true tumor-specific mutations, such as the products of translocations in leukemias, should reduce such a risk. A potentially ideal target might be the chimeric protein TEL-AML1, which results from the chromosomal translocation 12;21 and represents the most common fusion gene in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). Within the fusion region of TEL-AML1, a single epitope has been described by reverse immunology as immunogenic in HLA-A*0201 restriction settings. As a potential source of TCRs specific for this TEL-AML1 epitope, we have used mice expressing a human TCR- repertoire and human MHC class I. Surprisingly, we have found that, although a specific functional CD8(+) T-cell response against this peptide could be evoked, the described epitope was in fact not endogenously processed. Analyses done with a potent antigen-presenting cell line, as well as with purified human proteasomes, support the conclusion that this peptide cannot be proposed as a potential target in immunotherapy of ALL in HLA-A*0201-restricted fashion.
Bcl-2 is a better therapeutic target than c-Myc, but attacking both could be a more effective treatment strategy for B-cell lymphoma with concurrentBcl-2 and c-Myc overexpression.	The prognosis for diffuse large B-cell lymphomas with concomitant overexpression of c-Myc and Bcl-2 remains dismal; there is an urgent need to clarify the significance of these two oncogenes as therapeutic targets for a more effective treatment strategy.
Why RIDL is not SIT.	History teaches that sterile insect technique (SIT) is a feasible strategy for mosquito population suppression. Female killing (FK) technologies developed later theoretically had greater potential than SIT, but depended upon chromosomal translocations. Unfortunately these were genetically unstable. New transgenic strategies have been misinterpreted as a replacement for SIT. Instead these strategies provide a means to revisit FK. Conditional lethal mutations inserted into mosquito genomes allow for adjustment of the age of mortality, female-specific lethality, bisexual lethality and manipulation of germline-specific gene expression. A recent Aedes aegypti case study demonstrates the viability of one of these new transgenic strategies.
Atypical Burkitt's lymphoma transforming from follicular lymphoma.	Amongst follicular lymphoma that transforms into a high-grade lymphoma, majority are diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Here we reported a rare atypical Burkitt's lymphoma transformation from an asymptomatic follicular lymphoma. Lymph node biopsy showed a composite lymphoma with infiltration of the inter-follicular areas by high grade small non-cleaved lymphoma cells amongst neoplastic follicles. Moreover, FISH and molecular genetic study confirmed concomitant MYC translocations and t(14;18) in the high-grade component, thereby suggesting the transformation of atypical Burkitt's lymphoma from an undiagnosed antecedent follicular lymphoma. The disease followed an aggressive clinical course, terminating in refractory disease 13 months after diagnosis. This is followed by a comprehensive review of the literature on lymphoma transformations from underlying follicular lymphoma after acquisition of MYC translocation, using Burkitt's lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, transformation and MYC translocations as keywords.
Synergistic requirement of orphan nonamer-like elements and DNA bending enhanced by HMGB1 for RAG-mediated nicking at cryptic 12-RSS but not authentic 12-RSS.	V(D)J recombination is initiated by the specific binding of the recombination activating gene (RAG) complex to the heptamer and nonamer elements within recombination signal sequence (RSS). The break points associated with some chromosomal translocations contain cryptic RSSs, and mistargeting of RAG proteins to these less conserved elements could contribute to an aberrant V(D)J recombination. Recently, we found RAG-dependent recombination in the hotspots of TEL-AML1 t(12;21)(p13;q22) chromosomal translocation by an extrachromosomal recombination assay. Here, we describe using in vitro cleavage assays that RAG proteins directly bind to and introduce nicks into TEL and AML1 translocation regions, which contain several heptamer-like sequences. The cryptic nicking site within the TEL fragment was cleaved by RAG proteins essentially depending on a 12-RSS framework, and the nicking activity was enhanced synergistically by both HMGB1 and orphan nonamer-like (NL) sequences, which do not possess counterpart heptamers. In addition, we found that DNA bending stimulated by HMGB1 is indispensable for the HMGB1- and orphan NL element-dependent enhancement of RAG-mediated nicking at the cryptic 12-RSS. Collectively, we would propose the mechanism of HMGB1-dependent enhancement of RAG-mediated nicking at a cryptic RSS through enhanced DNA bending.
Painting the rye genome with genome-specific sequences.	We used rye-specific repetitive DNA sequences in fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to paint the rye genome and to identify rye DNA in a wheat background. A 592 bp fragment from the rye-specific dispersed repetitive family R173 (named UCM600) was cloned and used as a FISH probe. UCM600 is dispersed over the seven rye chromosomes, being absent from the pericentromeric and subtelomeric regions. A similar pattern of distribution was also observed on the rye B chromosomes, but with weaker signals. The FISH hybridization patterns using UCM600 as probe were comparable with those obtained with the genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) procedure. There were, however, sharper signals and less background with FISH. UCM600 was combined with the rye-specific sequences Bilby and pSc200 to obtain a more complete painting. With these probes, the rye chromosomes were labeled with distinctive patterns; thus, allowing the rye cultivar 'Imperial' to be karyotyped. It was also possible to distinguish rye chromosomes in triticale and alien rye chromatin in wheat-rye addition and translocation lines. The distribution of UCM600 was similar in cultivated rye and in the wild Secale species Secale vavilovii Grossh., Secale sylvestre Host, and Secale africanum Stapf. Thus, UCM600 can be used to detect Secale DNA introgressed from wild species in a wheat background.
Prevalence of follicular lymphoma in situ in consecutively analysed reactive lymph nodes.	Follicular lymphoma (FL) in situ is defined as strongly bcl-2-positive B cells in germinal centres of morphologically inconspicuous lymph nodes. The prevalence and biological and clinical significance of this lesion are still not clear. Therefore we aimed at the detection of the prevalence of this phenomenon in an unselected series of lymph nodes, as a surrogate for the normal population.
What choice of first-line treatment?]	Treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer has evolved last years, until an individualized approach, notably according to patient characteristics, histology, and molecular profile of the tumor. So, the presence of EGFR mutations allows the administration of gefitinib in first line, with response rate around 70% and a progression-free survival around 12 months. If there is no EGFR mutation, the treatment consists in cytotoxic chemotherapy, according to histology. Indeed, non squamous carcinomas are accessible to a platin-pemetrexed doublet, and squamous carcinomas to another platin-based doublet. Besides, new molecular targets are identified, with corresponding targeted treatment. So, the EML4 - ALK translocation is accessible to a treatment by crizotinib, with response rate around 60-70%.
Molecular mechanisms generating and stabilizing terminal 22q13 deletions in 44 subjects with Phelan/McDermid syndrome.	In this study, we used deletions at 22q13, which represent a substantial source of human pathology (Phelan/McDermid syndrome), as a model for investigating the molecular mechanisms of terminal deletions that are currently poorly understood. We characterized at the molecular level the genomic rearrangement in 44 unrelated patients with 22q13 monosomy resulting from simple terminal deletions (72%), ring chromosomes (14%), and unbalanced translocations (7%). We also discovered interstitial deletions between 17-74 kb in 9% of the patients. Haploinsufficiency of the SHANK3 gene, confirmed in all rearrangements, is very likely the cause of the major neurological features associated with PMS. SHANK3 mutations can also result in language and/or social interaction disabilities. We determined the breakpoint junctions in 29 cases, providing a realistic snapshot of the variety of mechanisms driving non-recurrent deletion and repair at chromosome ends. De novo telomere synthesis and telomere capture are used to repair terminal deletions; non-homologous end-joining or microhomology-mediated break-induced replication is probably involved in ring 22 formation and translocations; non-homologous end-joining and fork stalling and template switching prevail in cases with interstitial 22q13.3. For the first time, we also demonstrated that distinct stabilizing events of the same terminal deletion can occur in different early embryonic cells, proving that terminal deletions can be repaired by multistep healing events and supporting the recent hypothesis that rare pathogenic germline rearrangements may have mitotic origin. Finally, the progressive clinical deterioration observed throughout the longitudinal medical history of three subjects over forty years supports the hypothesis of a role for SHANK3 haploinsufficiency in neurological deterioration, in addition to its involvement in the neurobehavioral phenotype of PMS.
Use of Bayes' formula to make a genetic risk estimate.	Izabella and her partner sought pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) because Izabella had retinoblastoma due to a deletion in chromosome 13 and they want to have children not at genetic risk of retinoblastoma. Fortunately, Izabella's tumor was unilateral and was treated successfully and she is well. Izabella's chromosome abnormality is mosaic with 70% of lymphocytes having the deletion. This mosaicism may not be present in Izabella's ovaries. The couple went through PGD on two occasions and 13 embryos were tested. None had the deleted chromosome 13. IVF and PGD failed to produce a pregnancy. The couple wished to know what the experience provides as to the risk to their offspring: in particular, does it indicate a risk low enough to be acceptable if they go ahead with a natural pregnancy instead of another resort to PGD? Also, the couple did not want prenatal diagnosis. The situation therefore requires an estimate of the probability that an embryo will have the deletion. Counseling is problematic because there is no obvious way of selecting a prior probability from which to compute a Bayesian estimate of risk. Two solutions are offered, depending on the amount of information available about genes transmitted from the maternal grandparents.
Partial monosomy 13q (13q21.32--->qter) and partial trisomy 8p (8p1--->pter) presenting with anencephaly and increased nuchal translucency: array comparative genomic hybridization characterization.	To present array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) characterization of partial monosomy 13q (13q21.32qter) and partial trisomy 8p (8p12pter) presenting with anencephaly and increased nuchal translucency (NT).
Transient hypermutability, chromothripsis and replication-based mechanisms in the generation of concurrent clustered mutations.	Clustered mutations may be broadly defined as the presence of two or more mutations within a spatially localized genomic region on a single chromosome. Known instances vary in terms of both the number and type of the component mutations, ranging from two closely spaced point mutations to tens or even hundreds of genomic rearrangements. Although clustered mutations can represent the observable net result of independent lesions sequentially acquired over multiple cell cycles, they can also be generated in a simultaneous or quasi-simultaneous manner within a single cell cycle. This review focuses on those mechanisms known to underlie the latter type. Both gene conversion and transient hypermutability are capable of generating closely spaced multiple mutations. However, a recently described phenomenon in human cancer cells, known as 'chromothripsis', has provided convincing evidence that tens to hundreds of genomic rearrangements can sometimes be generated simultaneously via a single catastrophic event. The distinctive genomic features observed in the derivative chromosomes, together with the highly characteristic junction sequences, point to non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) as being the likely underlying mutational mechanism. By contrast, replication-based mechanisms such as microhomology-mediated break-induced replication (MMBIR) which involves serial replication slippage or serial template switching probably account for those complex genomic rearrangements that comprise multiple duplications and/or triplications.
The molecular pathology of sarcomas.	Sarcomas are rare malignancies of mesenchymal lineage with more than 100 specific types and many benign potential mimics. In situ and precursor lesions are generally not described and thus much of molecular pathology in this field concentrates on molecular diagnosis, prognosis and determination of therapeutic targets. This chapter discusses the applications of molecular methodologies that provide insight into pathogenesis of sarcoma, and of molecular methods which are currently applied to, or will likely soon influence, the clinical management of this complex array of tumors.
Systemic mastocytosis is uncommon in KIT D816V mutation positive core-binding factor acute myeloid leukemia.	The KIT D816V mutation is detected in the vast majority of adult cases of systemic mastocytosis (SM). The mutation is also frequently detected in core-binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF AML) defined by the presence of t(8;21)(q22;q22); RUNX1-RUNX1T1 or inv(16)(p13.1;q22)/t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB-MYH11 chromosomal rearrangements, but whether the mutation is indicative of associated SM is unclear. In the present study, patients with CBF AML were therefore analyzed for the KIT D816V mutation and mutation positive cases subsequently analyzed for the presence of SM. The KIT D816V mutation was detected in eight of 20 cases of CBF AML, with the frequency in t(8;21)(q22;q22) and inv(16)(p13.1;q22) positive cases being 31% and 57%, respectively. The fraction of KIT D816V mutation positive cells was highly variable among the eight mutation positive patients, with levels ranging from 0.04 to 98% in a pretreatment blood sample. Five of the eight cases carried the mutation in a cell fraction below one-tenth of the blast cell fraction, thus suggesting that KIT mutation is often a late event in leukemogenesis. None of the eight KIT D816V mutation positive cases fulfilled the World Health Organization diagnostic criteria of SM. The presence of the KIT D816V mutation in the CBF AML subgroup can therefore not be considered indicative of associated SM.
Vascular congenital dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans:  a new histological variant of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.	We describe a case of congenital dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) that masqueraded as a vascular tumor both clinically and histologically. Based on the infiltrative growth pattern, presence of capillary-sized vessels, and spindle cell areas with slit-like vascular spaces and numerous thin-walled vessels at the periphery of the tumor, a kaposiform hemangioendothelioma was initially diagnosed. Strong diffuse CD34 positivity and the extension into the subcutaneous fat with a sieve-like effect prompted the fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis, which demonstrated a reciprocal t(17;22) translocation. According to our knowledge, this is the first report of a vascular histological variant of DFSP. This unique variant represents a potential pitfall for dermatopathologists and underlines the importance of cytogenetic diagnostics in unusual cases of DFSP.
Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the MOZ-CBP fusion transcript in therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia with t(8;16)(p11;p13).	We developed a real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay system for detecting the MOZ-CBP fusion transcript and used it to monitor minimal residual disease (MRD) status in a patient with therapy related acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML) harboring t(8;16)(p11;p13). Expression of the MOZ-CBP fusion transcript was determined by RT-PCR analysis of the patient's bone marrow at the time of diagnosis. Thereafter, real time RT-PCR was used to evaluate MRD levels throughout the entire course of treatment. The sensitivity of quantitative RT-PCR for the MOZ-CBP fusion transcript was 10(-5). Below this level, MRD was classified as negative. Real time RT-PCR of the bone marrow after induction therapy showed the reduction of MOZ-CBP transcript to approximately 10(-3) level when compared to the diagnostic sample. MRD was classified as negative (< 10(-5) compared with that in the bone marrow at diagnosis) after 5 courses of chemotherapy, a level that was maintained post-allo-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Real time RT-PCR of the MOZ-CBP transcript is a useful tool for assessing MRD status for a patient with therapy related acute myeloid leukemia who was initially predicted to have a poor prognosis.
Ovarian perivascular epithelioid cell tumor not otherwise specified with transcription factor E3 gene rearrangement: a case report and review of the literature.	We report the first case of isolated ovarian perivascular epithelioid cell tumor not otherwise specified in a 33-year-old woman with no history of tuberous sclerosis. A right ovary specimen revealed a well-circumscribed 2.5  2 cm solid mass. Microscopically, the mass was composed of nests of tumor cells that were separated by fibrous septa. The tumor cells were composed of pure epithelioid cells with abundant clear cytoplasm and dark brown pigments. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed diffuse and strong cytoplasmic staining of HMB45; however, the tumor cells were not reactive for smooth muscle actin, desmin, inhibin-, calretinin, and carcinoembryonic antigen. Strong nuclear expression of transcription factor E3 protein was observed in most tumor cells, and transcription factor E3 fluorescence in situ hybridization showed transcription factor E3 rearrangements associated with balanced Xp11 translocations.
The use of new technologies in the detection of balanced translocations in hematologic disorders.	The cytogenetic evaluation of hematologic disease can confirm a diagnosis, determine treatment options, and provide prognostic information to the patient. Among the potential cytogenetic aberrations that can be identified are certain balanced translocations with recurrent breakpoints that provide disease classification and define the sites of disease-causing or disease-promoting genes. In this review, we discuss the importance of balanced translocation identification, the methods traditionally used to identify balanced translocations in the cytogenetics laboratory, and the application of new methodologies such as next generation (NextGen) sequencing and array-based translocation identification through a linear amplification application. These new technologies have the potential to identify all currently known diagnostically and prognostically important rearrangements as well as novel alterations that may provide new therapeutic targets to enhance treatment of hematologic disease.
A real-time (PCR) for a real life? Quantitative evaluation of BCL2/IGH in follicular lymphoma and its implications for clinical practice.	Follicular lymphoma (FL) is highly associated with the molecular rearrangement BCL2/IGH. Although BCL2/IGH has been studied many times in follicular lymphoma, its real clinical value remains controversial. In this study, we performed quantitative testing by real-time polymerase chain reaction in 56 FL patients with median follow-up of 44 months (range, 9-102 months); chemotherapy was administered in 52 of 56 cases. Pretreatment numbers of BCL2/IGH varied in wide ranges, with a median of 2947 (range, 0-1,261,013) copies/10(6) cellular equivalent in peripheral blood (PB) and 4650 copies/10(6) cellular equivalent (range, 1-1,056,813) in bone marrow (BM), the difference between PB and BM was significant (p= 0.006). Pretreatment of BCL2/IGH quantities were correlated to clinical parameters (e.g., age, stage, sex, lactate dehydrogenase, B symptoms, grade, bulky disease, chemotherapy regimen) and to progression free-survival. Advanced clinical stage (III and IV) and microscopic BM involvement were significantly associated with higher numbers of BCL2/IGH in PB (p < 0.05) and in BM (p = 0.05), regardless all or newly diagnosed patients were evaluated. High pretreatment burden of BCL2/IGH was associated with significantly shorter progression-free survival; p = 0.003 and p = 0.047 for PB and BM, respectively. In conclusion, pretreatment quantity of BCL2/IGH in PB or BM seems to mirror the extent of disease and can provide an auxiliary prognostic parameter in FL. Our results also support evidence of the negative prognostic value of microscopic BM involvement in FL.
A translocation t(5;15)(q15;q11-13) infant case with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and literature review: prognosis implications.	Infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) represents poor prognosis despite intensive chemotherapy. Rearrangements of chromosome 11q23 are not observed in 34% of the cases. Infant ALL patients with t(5;15)(p15;q11-13) are rare and sporadic. In large series of infant ALL studies, 6 patients have been reported. We present a new case of an infant ALL patient with t(5;15)(p15;q11-13), and a literature review. Considering the data provided by our case and previous reports, we reinforce that this chromosomal abnormality is characteristic of ALL patients under 12 months of age sharing break point in 5p15 and 15q11-13 and strengthen the existence of an infant ALL subgroup characterized by pre-B L1 ALL, CD10-positive, complete remission (100%), and event-free survival (71%), with a relatively good prognosis and clearly less severe than the 11q23 rearrangement cases. This abnormality can be considered a recurrent abnormality on this nosologic group.
Chromosomal translocations and palindromic AT-rich repeats.	Repetitive DNA sequences constitute 30% of the human genome, and are often sites of genomic rearrangement. Recently, it has been found that several constitutional translocations, especially those that involve chromosome 22, take place utilizing palindromic sequences on 22q11 and on the partner chromosome. Analysis of translocation junction fragments shows that the breakpoints of such palindrome-mediated translocations are localized at the center of palindromic AT-rich repeats (PATRRs). The presence of PATRRs at the breakpoints indicates a palindrome-mediated mechanism involved in the generation of these constitutional translocations. Identification of these PATRR-mediated translocations suggests a universal pathway for gross chromosomal rearrangement in the human genome. De novo occurrences of PATRR-mediated translocations can be detected by PCR in normal sperm samples but not somatic cells. Polymorphisms of various PATRRs influence their propensity for adopting a secondary structure, which in turn affects de novo translocation frequency. We propose that the PATRRs form an unstable secondary structure, which leads to double-strand breaks at the center of the PATRR. The double-strand breaks appear to be followed by a non-homologous end-joining repair pathway, ultimately leading to the translocations. This review considers recent findings concerning the mechanism of meiosis-specific, PATRR-mediated translocations.
Schizophrenia genetics: progress, at last.	The heritability of schizophrenia is well established, and has motivated the search for genetic variation that contributes to susceptibility. Recent progress from both genome-wide association and copy number variant studies have identified risk loci, however, these are at very different ends of the susceptibility spectrum with respect to allele frequency and effect size. It is likely that investigations of common variants have surrendered their full yield, but rare variant exploration is at the very beginning.
ETV1, 4 and 5: an oncogenic subfamily of ETS transcription factors.	The homologous ETV1, ETV4 and ETV5 proteins form the PEA3 subfamily of ETS transcription factors. In Ewing tumors, chromosomal translocations affecting ETV1 or ETV4 are an underlying cause of carcinogenesis. Likewise, chromosomal rearrangements of the ETV1, ETV4 or ETV5 gene occur in prostate tumors and are thought to be one of the major driving forces in the genesis of prostate cancer. In addition, these three ETS proteins are implicated in melanomas, breast and other types of cancer. Complex posttranslational modifications govern the activity of PEA3 factors, which can promote cell proliferation, motility and invasion. Here, we review evidence for a role of ETV1, 4 and 5 as oncoproteins and describe modes of their action. Modulation of their activation or interaction with cofactors as well as inhibiting crucial target gene products may ultimately be exploited to treat various cancers that are dependent on the PEA3 group of ETS transcription factors.
Targeted next generation sequencing of clinically significant gene mutations and translocations in leukemia.	Leukemias are currently subclassified based on the presence of recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities and gene mutations. These molecular findings are the basis for risk-adapted therapy; however, such data are generally obtained by disparate methods in the clinical laboratory, and often rely on low-resolution techniques such as fluorescent in situ hybridization. Using targeted next generation sequencing, we demonstrate that the full spectrum of prognostically significant gene mutations including translocations, single nucleotide variants (SNVs), and insertions/deletions (indels) can be identified simultaneously in multiplexed sequence data. As proof of concept, we performed hybrid capture using a panel of 20 genes implicated in leukemia prognosis (covering a total of 1Mbp) from five leukemia cell lines including K562, NB4, OCI-AML3, kasumi-1, and MV4-11. Captured DNA was then sequenced in multiplex on an Illumina HiSeq. Using an analysis pipeline based on freely available software we correctly identified DNA-level translocations in three of the three cell lines where translocations were covered by our capture probes. Furthermore, we found all published gene mutations in commonly tested genes including NPM1, FLT3, and KIT. The same methodology was applied to DNA extracted from the bone marrow of a patient with acute myeloid leukemia, and identified a t(9;11) translocation with single base accuracy as well other gene mutations. These results indicate that targeted next generation sequencing can be successfully applied in the clinical laboratory to identify a full spectrum of DNA mutations ranging from SNVs and indels to translocations. Such methods have the potential to both greatly streamline and improve the accuracy of DNA-based diagnostics.
SNP array analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia may be of prognostic relevance and identifies a potential high risk group with recurrent deletions on chromosomal subband 1q31.3.	To search for new copy number alterations (CNAs) in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), we analyzed DNA from leukemic blasts of 93 acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients with Genome-Wide SNP 6.0 arrays (SNP-A). We identified 259 CNAs consisting of 170 heterozygous deletions, 82 amplifications, and 7 regions of copy number neutral loss of heterozygosity. One of the most common CNAs was a deletion on chromosomal subband 1q31.3 in 13 of 93 (14%) patients encompassing the coding regions for the microRNAs mir181a1/b1. In multivariable analysis with the covariates age, white blood cell count, platelet count, and FLT3-ITD/FLT3 D835 mutations we found that after adjustment for patients' age (P<0.0001), patients with 2 or more CNAs detected by SNP-A had a higher risk of death (hazard ratio=5.942, P=0.0015) than patients with 0 or 1 CNA. Deletions of 1q31.3 were associated with a higher number of CNAs (median 2 vs. 8, P<0.0001) and were a strong independent prognostic factor for an increased risk of relapse (hazard ratio=28.9, P=0.0031). This study presents a comprehensive assessment of new CNAs as pathomechanistically relevant targets and possible prognostic factors which could refine risk stratification of APL.
Differential positioning and close spatial proximity of translocation-prone genes in nonmalignant B-cells from multiple myeloma patients.	Accumulating evidence suggests that spatial proximity of potential chromosomal translocation partners influences translocation probability. It is not known, however, whether genome organization differs in nonmalignant cells from patients as compared to their cellular counterparts from healthy donors. This could contribute to translocation potential causing cancer. Multiple myeloma is a hematopoietic cancer of the B-lineage, characterized by karyotypic instability, including chromosomal translocations involving the IGH locus and several translocation partners. Utilizing 3-D FISH and confocal imaging, we investigate whether nuclear spatial positioning of the translocation-prone gene loci, IGH, FGFR3, and CCND1 differs in nonmalignant cell subsets from multiple myeloma patients as compared to positioning in their corresponding healthy donor cell subsets. 3-D analysis software was used to determine the spatial proximity of potential translocation pairs and the radial distribution of each gene. We observed that in all cell subsets, the translocation-prone gene loci are intermediately located in the nucleus, while a control locus occupies a more peripheral position. In nonmalignant B-cells from multiple myeloma patients, however, the translocation-prone gene loci display a more central nuclear position and close spatial proximity. Our results demonstrate that gene positioning in nonmalignant B-cells from multiple myeloma patients differs from that in healthy donors, potentially contributing to translocation probability in patient cells. We speculate that genome reorganization in patient B-cells may closely reflect gene positioning at the time the multiple myeloma-specific translocation initially formed, thus influencing translocation probability between proximal loci in the B-cell population from which the malignancy emerged.
In multiple myeloma, bone-marrow lymphocytes harboring the same chromosomal abnormalities as autologous plasma cells predict poor survival.	Chromosomal abnormalities in plasma cells (PCs) from multiple myeloma (MM) provide a clonal signature to identify malignant cells. BM-lymphocytes from MM aspirates, defined by stringent criteria, were screened for the same chromosomal abnormalities as autologous PCs, including translocations, deletions, and amplifications. For 200 MM patients, we evaluated BM mononuclear cells to identify lymphocytes and autologous PCs on the same slide, followed by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization to characterize their chromosomal abnormalities. Of all patients having a given chromosomal abnormality(s) in PCs, 45% showed that same abnormality(s) in 2-37% (median = 5%) of BM-lymphocytes. Most translocations, amplifications, and deletions found in MM PCs were also detected in lymphocytes, above the healthy-donor "cut-off." In patients having chromosomally abnormal CD20(-) PCs, chromosomally abnormal lymphocytes were found among CD20+ cells confirming them as B cells. Exceptions were amplification of 1q21 or p53 deletion, which characterize PCs but were undetectable in BM-lymphocytes, suggesting that processes leading to these abnormalities may be exclusive to PCs. For a set of 75 patients whose BM-lymphocytes and PCs were analyzed by all six probe sets, 58% of those with abnormal PC also had abnormal BM-lymphocytes harboring from one to five different abnormalities. Confirming the clinical significance of chromosomally abnormal BM-lymphocytes, MM patients having abnormalities in both lymphocytes and PC had significantly worse survival than those with abnormalities only in PC (HR = 2.68). The presence of at least one chromosomal abnormality in BM-lymphocytes appears to have greater clinical significance than particular abnormalities. Chromosomally abnormal BM-lymphocytes correlate with poor outcome and by extrapolation with more aggressive disease.
Complex genomic rearrangement in the SOX9 5' region in a patient with Pierre Robin sequence and hypoplastic left scapula.	Pierre Robin sequence (PRS) can occur as a component of campomelic dysplasia (CD) and acampomelic CD (ACD) caused by dysfunction or dysregulation of SOX9, although it can also take place as an isolated form. Recently, genomic alterations in the far upstream and the far downstream region of SOX9 have been identified in patients with isolated PRS. Here, we report on a male patient with PRS and a heterozygous genomic rearrangement in the 5' region of SOX9. Clinical analysis revealed PRS-compatible craniofacial anomalies, mild hypoplasia of the left scapula, and normal male external genitalia. Molecular analysis identified a paracentric inversion on the long arm of chromosome 17 with breakpoints at 17q21.31 and 17q24.3, and a microdeletion spanning from -4.15 to -1.16Mb relative to SOX9. These findings indicate that the chromosomal region more than 1.16Mb apart from SOX9 contains at least one developmental enhancer(s) for SOX9 that plays a critical role in the development of the mandible and a relatively small role in the development of the scapula. Moreover, the concept of exclusion mapping argues that putative CD/ACD loci are located within the 1.16Mb region closest to SOX9 coding exons, which remain intact in this Non-CD/ACD patient. This study provides a novel example for long-range cis-regulatory mutations of SOX9.
Long-term analysis of the IFM 99 trials for myeloma: cytogenetic abnormalities [t(4;14), del(17p), 1q gains] play a major role in defining long-term survival.	In multiple myeloma, many prognostic parameters have been proposed. However, all of these predict shorter survival. To identify patients with a longer life expectancy, we updated the data of patients treated in the IFM (Intergroupe Francophone du Myelome) 99-02 and 99-04 trials.
Novel chromosomal translocation t(11;9)(p15;p23) involving deletion and duplication of 9p in a girl associated with autism and mental retardation.	We describe a 5-year-old girl presented with autism and mental retardation features. Conventional karyotyping revealed a novel unidirectional translocation t(11;9)(p15;p23). HumanCytoSNP-12 Chip analysis identified a 13 Mb deletion from 9p24.3 to 9p23 and a 12.5Mb duplication from 9p23 to 9p21.2. The karyotype was described as 45,XX,psu dic(11; 9)(p15;p23), which was reported for the first time here. The deleted region, extending from 9p24.3 to 9p23, overlaps with the candidate region for monosomy 9p syndrome and contains a potential autism spectrum disorders (ASD) locus. The duplication region extending from 9p23 to 9p21.2 was previously identified as a critical region for the 9p duplication syndrome. These results suggested that the apparently balanced de novo translocations could produce cryptic deletions or duplications, and the precise mapping of the abnormal area may improve clinical management.
Childhood leukemia genetic bottleneck phenomenon related to TEL-AML1: the postulation by a mathematical model.	Childhood leukemia bottleneck phenomenon is the most mysterious corollary of the prenatal origin discovery of leukemogenic chromosome translocations. The bottleneck is evidence that leukemia initiation, by in utero acquired chromosome translocations that generate functional fusion genes, is far more common than the incidence rate of corresponding leukemia. For childhood TEL-AML1(+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) this equates to approximately 100 times. Practically this means that among a hundred children born with TEL-AML1 fusion gene, only one child will later in its life develop ALL. The key data necessary for unraveling of this mystery were discovered in 2002. It was the level of TEL-AML1(+) cells frequency. The bottleneck is caused by the very low body TEL-AML1(+) cell count. Only one out of a thousand B cells carries TEL-AML1 fusion gene. TEL-AML1(+) body cell count is low because TEL-AML1 fusion is generated at cell level of 10(-3) to 10(-4) just during the late fetal lymphopoiesis i.e. after the 36th gestational week.
Mantle cell lymphoma: 2012 update on diagnosis, risk-stratification, and clinical management.	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma characterized by involvement of the lymph nodes, spleen, blood, and bone marrow with a short remission duration to standard therapies and a median overall survival of 4-5 years.
HBsAg inhibits the translocation of JTB into mitochondria in HepG2 cells and potentially plays a role in HCC progression.	The expression of the jumping translocation breakpoint (JTB) gene is upregulated in malignant liver tissues; however, JTB is associated with unbalanced translocations in many other types of cancer that suppress JTB expression. No comprehensive analysis on its function in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been performed to date. We aimed to define the biological consequences for interaction between JTB and HBsAg in HCC cell lines.
Preclinical rationale for use of the clinically available multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor crizotinib in ROS1-translocated lung cancer.	Most clinically available small-molecule kinase inhibitors are multi-targeted and can inhibit multiple kinases. Our driving hypothesis was that one of these multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) would have antiproliferative activity against ROS1 translocated non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Molecular genetic characterization of lymphoma: application to cytology diagnosis.	Mature B- and T-cell lymphomas are increasingly being associated with specific genetic alterations; characterization of these changes can sometimes be crucial to both diagnosis and prognosis. Molecular testing encompasses fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays, as well as classical cytogenetics. FISH and PCR-based assays can be performed on cytology material without the need for advanced planning for testing with fresh tissue. As many lymphoproliferations are amenable to fine needle aspiration diagnosis, it is important for the cytopathologist to be aware of what testing is feasible in these (sometimes limited) specimens. Here, we review pertinent genetic changes in mature B- and T-cell lymphomas with a focus on those that may be encountered more commonly in cytology specimens.
Different patterns of Robertsonian fusion pairing in Bovidae and the house mouse: the relationship between chromosome size and nuclear territories.	Using a dataset of karyotypic changes reported for bovids and the house mouse (Mus musculus domesticus) together with information from the cattle (Bos taurus) and mouse genomes, we examined two principal variables that have been proposed to predict chromosomal positioning in the nucleus, chromosome size and GC content. These were expected to influence the distribution of Robertsonian (Rb) fusions, the predominant mode of chromosomal change in both taxa. We found the largest chromosomes to be most frequently involved in fusions in bovids, and confirm earlier reports that chromosomes of intermediate size were the most frequent fusers in mice. We then tested whether chromosomal positioning can explain Rb fusion frequencies. We classified chromosomes into groups by size and considered the frequency of interactions between specific groups. Among the interactions, mouse chromosomes showed a slight tendency to fuse with neighbouring chromosomes, in line with expectations of chromosomal positioning, but also resembling predictions from meiotic spindle-induced bias. Bovids, on the other hand, showed no trend in interactions, with small chromosomes being the least frequent partner for all size classes. We discuss the results in terms of nuclear organization at various cell cycle stages and the proposed mechanisms of Rb fusion formation, and note that the difference can be explained by (i) considering bovid species generally to be characterized by a greater intermingling of chromosomal size classes than the house mouse, or (ii) by the vastly different timescales underpinning their evolutionary histories.
Sirenomelia with a de novo balanced translocation 46,X,t(X;16)(p11.23;p12.3).	We report a female fetus with sirenomelia with 46,X,t(X;16)(p11.23;p12.3) de novo. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with bacterial artificial chromosomes were employed for narrowing down the breakpoint regions. On chromosome 16, the breakpoint was mapped in the region of RP11-453F10 (19920640-20118153bp from 16pter). On chromosome X, the breakpoint was mapped in the region of RP11-794A15 (47333744-47524066bp from Xpter). This is the first case report of sirenomelia associated with translocations. The abnormal phenotype, associated with a balanced translocation, was caused by deletion or breakage of dosage-sensitive genes of the breakpoint, disruption of an imprinted gene, or uniparental disomy. Although the parental origin of normal 16 and der(16) remained undetermined, this case will provide insight into the pathogenetic mechanism of sirenomelia.
An unusual enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma with MYC translocation arising in a Japanese patient: a case report.	Enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL) is a rare peripheral T-cell lymphoma classified into 2 types, with or without celiac disease, based on histology. Type 2 EATL is less commonly associated with celiac disease, in which cells are characterized by being monomorphic and small- to medium-sized. Cells are characterized by CD8 and CD56 expression and c-MYC oncogene locus gain. We present an atypical case of type 2 EATL in the jejunum, with human T-lymphotropic virus-1 that was CD4- CD8+ CD56- CD30- CD25- TIA-1+ and granzyme B+ on immunohistological staining. It also displayed translocation of chromosome 8p24 (c-MYC), as determined by fluorescent in situ hybridization. Mucosal spreading and intraepithelial invasion by lymphoma with villous atrophy were detected adjacent to the mucosal layer. The lymphoma may be derived from intraepithelial CD8+ T cells, similar to celiac disease.
Proposal of a clinical score for the molecular test for Pitt-Hopkins syndrome.	Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (PTHS) is an emerging condition characterized by severe intellectual disability (ID), typical facial gestalt, and additional features, such as breathing abnormalities. Because of the overlapping phenotype of severe ID with absent speech, epilepsy, microcephaly, large mouth, and constipation, differential diagnosis of PTHS with respect to Angelman, Rett, and Mowat-Wilson syndromes represents a relevant clinical issue, and many patients are currently undergoing genetic tests for different conditions that are assumed to fall within the PTHS clinical spectrum. During a search for TCF4 mutations in 78 patients with a suspected PTHS, haploinsufficiency of TCF4 was identified in 18. By evaluating clinical features of patients with a proven TCF4 mutation with those of patients without, we noticed that, in addition to the typical facial gestalt, the PTHS phenotype results from the various combination of the following characteristics: ID with severe speech impairment, normal growth parameters at birth, postnatal microcephaly, breathing abnormalities, motor incoordination, ocular anomalies, constipation, seizures, typical behavior, and subtle brain abnormalities. On the basis of these observations, here we propose a clinically based score system as useful tool for driving a first choice molecular test for PTHS. This scoring system is also proposed for a clinically based diagnosis of PTHS in absence of a proven TCF4 mutation.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma with cyclin D1 positive proliferation centers do not have CCND1 translocations or gains and lack SOX11 expression.	Cyclin D1 expression, usually absent in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), has been described in the proliferation centers (PC) of some CLL/SLL. The prevalence of this finding is uncertain, as is the explanation for its occurrence and whether these cases have any other unique features. Cyclin D1 immunohistochemical staining was therefore investigated in 57 extramedullary CLL/SLL biopsies. In 6 cases, cyclin D1 immunofluorescence followed by CCND1 fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and PC targeted analysis was performed using a Bioview Duet system. Excluding the prospectively selected cases that had the targeted FISH studies, cyclin D1+ PC were identified in 20% of cases. The cyclin D1+ CLL did not appear pathologically or phenotypically distinctive, though 46% had an interfollicular growth pattern. The cyclin D1+ PCs were SOX11- and lacked CCND1 translocations and gains in 5 of 5 informative cases. The recognition of cyclin D1 expression in PC of a significant minority of CLL/SLL can be a diagnostic aid and should not lead to the diagnosis of focal mantle cell lymphoma.
Myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia with t(3;21)(q26.2;q22) is commonly a therapy-related disease associated with poor outcome.	The t(3;21)(q26.2;q22) translocation is rare in cases of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We studied 17 patients with MDS/AML associated with t(3;21) and compared them with 17 patients with MDS associated with inv(3) (q21q26.2)/t(3;3)(q21;q26.2), because these entities share 3q26 locus abnormalities. The t(3;21) group included 9 men and 8 women, with a median age of 62 years (range, 13-81 years). One case was de novo AML and 16 cases were therapy-related, including 12 MDS (blasts, <15%) and 4 AML (blasts, 33%-50%). All patients had multilineage dysplasia, whereas none had thrombocytosis. Additional cytogenetic aberrations were identified in 12 cases, including -7/7q (n = 9) and a complex karyotype (n = 7). All patients died, with 1- and 2-year survival rates of 35% and 6%, respectively. Although multilineage dysplasia and frequent association with -7/7q were similar in both groups, MDS/AML cases associated with t(3;21) have a higher frequency of therapy-related disease and shorter survival times, suggesting that they are distinct from MDS/AML cases associated with inv(3)/t(3;3).
De novo unbalanced translocations in Prader-Willi and Angelman syndrome might be the reciprocal product of inv dup(15)s.	The 15q11-q13 region is characterized by high instability, caused by the presence of several paralogous segmental duplications. Although most mechanisms dealing with cryptic deletions and amplifications have been at least partly characterized, little is known about the rare translocations involving this region. We characterized at the molecular level five unbalanced translocations, including a jumping one, having most of 15q transposed to the end of another chromosome, whereas the der(15)(pter->q11-q13) was missing. Imbalances were associated either with Prader-Willi or Angelman syndrome. Array-CGH demonstrated the absence of any copy number changes in the recipient chromosome in three cases, while one carried a cryptic terminal deletion and another a large terminal deletion, already diagnosed by classical cytogenetics. We cloned the breakpoint junctions in two cases, whereas cloning was impaired by complex regional genomic architecture and mosaicism in the others. Our results strongly indicate that some of our translocations originated through a prezygotic/postzygotic two-hit mechanism starting with the formation of an acentric 15qter->q1::q1->qter representing the reciprocal product of the inv dup(15) supernumerary marker chromosome. An embryo with such an acentric chromosome plus a normal chromosome 15 inherited from the other parent could survive only if partial trisomy 15 rescue would occur through elimination of part of the acentric chromosome, stabilization of the remaining portion with telomere capture, and formation of a derivative chromosome. All these events likely do not happen concurrently in a single cell but are rather the result of successive stabilization attempts occurring in different cells of which only the fittest will finally survive. Accordingly, jumping translocations might represent successful rescue attempts in different cells rather than transfer of the same 15q portion to different chromosomes. We also hypothesize that neocentromerization of the original acentric chromosome during early embryogenesis may be required to avoid its loss before cell survival is finally assured.
Incidence of preclinical manifestations of mantle cell lymphoma and mantle cell lymphoma in situ in reactive lymphoid tissues.	Recently, the occurrence of cyclin D1-positive B cells with mantle cell lymphoma phenotype in the inner mantle zones of morphologically inconspicuous lymph nodes has been described and termed mantle cell lymphoma 'in situ'. Prevalence and clinical significance of this lesion and related minimal mantle cell lymphoma infiltrates in reactive lymphoid tissues of healthy individuals, and of mantle cell lymphoma patients are unknown. All 1292 reactive lymph nodes from unselected consecutive surgical specimens of 131 patients without a history of lymphoma obtained over a 3-month period were stained for cyclin D1. In addition, all morphologically reactive lymph nodes and benign-appearing extranodal lymphoid infiltrates of patients diagnosed with mantle cell lymphoma in the years 2000-2011 were studied. Samples predating the lymphoma diagnosis for at least 2 months were available from 37/423 (9%) patients. A mantle cell lymphoma 'in situ' was not identified in any of the two groups. However, in four patients with subsequent mantle cell lymphoma diagnosis, an early manifestation of mantle cell lymphoma was detected retrospectively, antedating the lymphoma diagnosis for 2-86 months. In six mantle cell lymphoma patients, only small groups of cyclin D1-positive cells in morphologically reactive extranodal infiltrates were detected >2 months before the diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma (range 3-59 months). Mantle cell lymphoma 'in situ' is an extremely rare phenomenon in morphologically reactive lymph nodes, in line with the low prevalence of t(11;14)-positive cells described in the peripheral blood of a healthy population. In mantle cell lymphoma patients, however, immunohistochemically detectable infiltrates of mantle cell lymphoma cells antedating the lymphoma diagnosis were found in a significant proportion of cases (10/37=27%). These consisted either of early mantle cell lymphoma with mantle zone growth pattern, or small extranodal accumulations of cyclin D1+ cells, whereas typical mantle cell lymphoma 'in situ' was not detected.
Factors affecting the relative abundance of nuclear copies of mitochondrial DNA (numts) in hominoids.	Although nuclear copies of mitochondrial DNA (numts) can originate from any portion of the mitochondrial genome, evidence from humans suggests that more variable parts of the mitochondrial genome, such as the mitochondrial control region (MCR), are under-represented in the nucleus. This apparent deficit might arise from the erosion of sequence identity in numts originating from rapidly evolving mitochondrial sequences. However, the extent to which mitochondrial sequence properties impacts the number of numts detected in genomic surveys has not been evaluated. In order to address this question, we: (1) conducted exhaustive BLAST searches of MCR numts in three hominoid genomes; (2) assessed numt prevalence across the four MCR sub-domains (HV1, CCD, HV2, and MCR(F)); (3) estimated their insertion rates in great apes (Hominoidea); and (4) examined the relationship between mitochondrial DNA variability and numt prevalence in sequences originating from MCR and coding regions of the mitochondrial genome. Results indicate a marked deficit of numts from HV2 and MCR(F) MCR sub-domains in all three species. These MCR sub-domains exhibited the highest proportion of variable sites and the lowest number of detected numts per mitochondrial site. Variation in MCR insertion rate between lineages was also observed with a pronounced burst in recent integrations within chimpanzees and orangutans. A deficit of numts from HV2/MCR(F) was observed regardless of age, whereas HV1 is under-represented only in older numts (>25 million years). Finally, more variable mitochondrial genes also exhibit a lower identity with nuclear copies and because of this, appear to be under-represented in human numt databases.
The genetic landscape of mutations in Burkitt lymphoma.	Burkitt lymphoma is characterized by deregulation of MYC, but the contribution of other genetic mutations to the disease is largely unknown. Here, we describe the first completely sequenced genome from a Burkitt lymphoma tumor and germline DNA from the same affected individual. We further sequenced the exomes of 59 Burkitt lymphoma tumors and compared them to sequenced exomes from 94 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) tumors. We identified 70 genes that were recurrently mutated in Burkitt lymphomas, including ID3, GNA13, RET, PIK3R1 and the SWI/SNF genes ARID1A and SMARCA4. Our data implicate a number of genes in cancer for the first time, including CCT6B, SALL3, FTCD and PC. ID3 mutations occurred in 34% of Burkitt lymphomas and not in DLBCLs. We show experimentally that ID3 mutations promote cell cycle progression and proliferation. Our work thus elucidates commonly occurring gene-coding mutations in Burkitt lymphoma and implicates ID3 as a new tumor suppressor gene.
Genome-wide characterization of the CBF/DREB1 gene family in Brassica rapa.	The C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding transcription factors (CBF/DREBs) are important proteins in involved in responses to abiotic stress in plants. We identified ten BrDREB1 genes belonging to the CBF/DREB1 gene family in the Brassica rapa whole genome sequence, whereas six genes are found in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. The deduced amino acid sequences of the B. rapa genes showed conserved motifs shared with other known plant CBF/DREB1s. Comparative analysis revealed that nine of the BrDREB1 genes were derived from the recent genome triplication in the tribe Brassiceae and the other one was translocated. The nine genes were located in seven of the 12 macrosyntenic blocks that are triplicated counterparts of four Arabidopsis macrosyntenic blocks harboring six CBF/DREB1 genes: one gene on each of three blocks and three tandemly arrayed genes on another block. We inspected the expression patterns of eight BrDREB1 genes by RT-PCR and microarray database searches. All eight genes were highly up-regulated during cold (4 C) treatment, and some of them were also responsive to salt (250 mM NaCl), drought (air drying), and ABA (100 M) treatment. Microarray data for plant developmental stages revealed that BrDREB1C2 was highly expressed during a period of cold treatment for vernalization, similar to abiotic stress-inducible genes homologous to Bn28a, Bn47, Bn115, and BoRS1, but almost opposite of BrFLC genes. Taken together, the number of BrDREB1 genes increased to 10 by genome triplication and reorganization, providing additional functions in B. rapa abiotic stress responses and development, as distinct from their Arabidopsis homologs.
Overexpression of miR-142-5p and miR-155 in gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma resistant to Helicobacter pylori eradication.	microRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that can function as endogenous silencers of target genes and play critical roles in human malignancies. To investigate the molecular pathogenesis of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, the miRNA expression profile was analyzed. miRNA microarray analysis with tissue specimens from gastric MALT lymphomas and surrounding non-tumor mucosae revealed that a hematopoietic-specific miRNA miR-142 and an oncogenic miRNA miR-155 were overexpressed in MALT lymphoma lesions. The expression levels of miR-142-5p and miR-155 were significantly increased in MALT lymphomas which do not respond to Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication. The expression levels of miR-142-5p and miR-155 were associated with the clinical courses of gastric MALT lymphoma cases. Overexpression of miR-142-5p and miR-155 was also observed in Helicobacter heilmannii-infected C57BL/6 mice, an animal model of gastric MALT lymphoma. In addition, miR-142-5p and miR-155 suppress the proapoptotic gene TP53INP1 as their target. The results of this study indicate that overexpression of miR-142-5p and miR-155 plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of gastric MALT lymphoma. These miRNAs might have potential application as therapeutic targets and novel biomarkers for gastric MALT lymphoma.
Disruption of a large intergenic noncoding RNA in subjects with neurodevelopmental disabilities.	Large intergenic noncoding (linc) RNAs represent a newly described class of ribonucleic acid whose importance in human disease remains undefined. We identified a severely developmentally delayed 16-year-old female with karyotype 46,XX,t(2;11)(p25.1;p15.1)dn in the absence of clinically significant copy number variants (CNVs). DNA capture followed by next-generation sequencing of the translocation breakpoints revealed disruption of a single noncoding gene on chromosome 2, LINC00299, whose RNA product is expressed in all tissues measured, but most abundantly in brain. Among a series of additional, unrelated subjects referred for clinical diagnostic testing who showed CNV affecting this locus, we identified four with exon-crossing deletions in association with neurodevelopmental abnormalities. No disruption of the LINC00299 coding sequence was seen in almost 14,000 control subjects. Together, these subjects with disruption of LINC00299 implicate this particular noncoding RNA in brain development and raise the possibility that, as a class, abnormalities of lincRNAs may play a significant role in human developmental disorders.
Impact of primary molecular cytogenetic abnormalities and risk of progression in smoldering multiple myeloma.	We studied 351 patients with smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) in whom the underlying primary molecular cytogenetic subtype could be determined based on cytoplasmic immunoglobulin fluorescent in situ hybridization studies. Hundred and fifty-four patients (43.9%) had trisomies, 127 (36.2%) had immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) translocations, 14 (4%) both trisomies and IgH translocations, 53 (15.1%) no abnormalities detected and 3 (0.9%) had monosomy13/del(13q) in the absence of any other abnormality. Among 127 patients with IgH translocations, 57 were t(11;14), 36 t(4;14), 11 musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma (MAF) translocations, and 23 other or unknown IgH translocation partner. Time to progression (TTP) to symptomatic multiple myeloma was significantly shorter in patients with the t(4;14) compared with patients with t(11;14), median 28 versus 55 months, respectively, P=0.025. The median TTP was 28 months with t(4;14) (high-risk), 34 months with trisomies alone (intermediate-risk), 55 months with t(11;14), MAF translocations, other/unknown IgH translocations, monosomy13/del(13q) without other abnormalities, and those with both trisomies and IgH translocations (standard-risk), and not reached in patients with no detectable abnormalities (low-risk), P=0.001. There was a trend to shorter TTP with deletion 17p (median TTP, 24 months). Overall survival from diagnosis of SMM was significantly inferior with t(4;14) compared with t(11;14), median 105 versus 147 months, respectively, P=0.036. 
Circulating t(14;18)-positive cells in healthy individuals: association with age and sex but not with smoking.	Abstract t(14;18)-positive cells can be detected not only in patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) but also in healthy individuals (HIs). We used epidemiological data and blood samples of the population-based Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP) to analyze associations of FL risk factors and t(14;18)-positive cells in HIs. Buffy coat samples from 4152 study participants were tested by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for t(14;18)-positive cells. Of 3966 evaluable subjects, 1526 were t(14;18)-PCR positive [38.5%, median 3.9 t(14;18)-positive per million nucleated cells, range 0.6-9299]. In multivariable analyses, age and sex but not parameters of smoking exposure were significantly associated with t(14;18) prevalence (logistic regression, p < 0.001). Multivariable analyses of t(14;18)-frequency showed a positive association with age but not with sex or smoking. These age and sex associations in HIs require careful control in future studies of t(14;18) as a potential biomarker of lymphoma risk. 
Lineage-inappropriate PAX5 expression in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia requires signaling-mediated abrogation of polycomb repression.	The activation of B-cell-specific genes, such as CD19 and PAX5, is a hallmark of t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) which expresses the translocation product RUNX1/ETO. PAX5 is an important regulator of B-lymphoid development and blocks myeloid differentiation when ectopically expressed. To understand the molecular mechanism of PAX5 deregulation, we examined its chromatin structure and regulation in t(8;21) AML cells, non-t(8;21) myeloid precursor control cells, and pre-B cells. In non-t(8;21) myeloid precursors, PAX5 is poised for transcription, but is repressed by polycomb complexes. In t(8;21) AML, PAX5 is not directly activated by RUNX1/ETO, but expression requires constitutive mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling. Using a model of t(8;21) carrying an activating KIT mutation, we demonstrate that deregulated MAP kinase signaling in t(8;21) AML abrogates the association of polycomb complexes to PAX5 and leads to aberrant gene activation. Our findings therefore suggest a novel role of activating tyrosine kinase mutations in lineage-inappropriate gene expression in AML. 
Mammary analogue secretory carcinoma mimicking salivary adenoma.	Mammary analogue secretory carcinoma (MASC) is a recently described salivary gland tumor characterized by ETV6 translocation. It appears that prior studies have identified MASC by reviewing salivary gland carcinomas, such as acinic cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. To address the possibility of MASC mimicking benign salivary neoplasms we reviewed 12 salivary gland (cyst)adenomas diagnosed prior to the discovery of MASC. One encapsulated (cyst)adenoma of the parotid gland demonstrated features of MASC. The diagnosis was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization with an ETV6 break-apart probe. An unusual complex pattern of ETV6 rearrangement with duplication of the telomeric/distal ETV6 probe was identified. This case illustrates that MASC may mimic salivary (cyst)adenomas. To more accurately assess true clinical and morphologic spectrum of MASC, future studies may have to include review of salivary (cyst)adenomas. The differential diagnosis of MASC may have to be expanded to include cases resembling salivary (cyst)adenomas. 
Acute myeloid leukemia with t(9;11) (p22;q23) and synchronous Langerhans cell histiocytosis.	We present here the first report of an adult patient with simultaneous LCH and AML with t(9;11).5. 
Sperm FISH analysis of a 44,X,der(Y),t(Y;15)(q12;q10)pat,rob(13;14)(q10;q10)mat complex chromosome rearrangement.	Complex chromosome rearrangements (CCR) with two independent chromosome rearrangements are rare. Although CCRs lead to high unbalanced gamete rates, data on meiotic segregation in this context are scarce. A male patient was referred to our clinic as part of a family screening programme prompted by the observation of a 44,X,der(Y),t(Y;15)(q12;q10)pat,rob(13;14)(q10;q10)mat karyotype in his brother. Karyotyping identified the same CCR. Sperm FISH (with locus-specific probes for the segments involved in the translocations and nine chromosomes not involved in both rearrangements) was used to investigate the rearrangements meiotic segregation products and establish whether or not an inter-chromosomal effect was present. Sperm nuclear DNA fragmentation was also evaluated. For rob(13;14) and der(Y), the proportions of unbalanced products were, respectively, 26.4% and 60.6%. Overall, 70.3% of the meiotic segregation products were unbalanced. No evidence of an inter-chromosomal effect was found, and the sperm nuclear DNA fragmentation rate was similar to our laboratory's normal cut-off value. In view of previously published sperm FISH analyses of Robertsonian translocations (and even though the mechanism is still unknown), we hypothesise that cosegregation of der(Y) and rob(13;14) could modify rob(13;14) meiotic segregation. 
Disruption of the L-arabitol dehydrogenase encoding gene in Aspergillus tubingensis results in increased xylanase production.	Fungal xylanases are of major importance to many industrial sectors, such as food and feed, paper and pulp, and biofuels. Improving their production is therefore highly relevant. We determined the molecular basis of an improved xylanase-producing strain of Aspergillus tubingensis that was generated by UV mutagenesis in an industrial strain improvement program. Using enzyme assays, gene expression, sequencing of the ladA locus in the parent and mutant, and complementation of the mutation, we were able to show that improved xylanase production was mainly caused by a chromosomal translocation that occurred between a subtilisin-like protease pepD gene and the L-arabitol dehydrogenase encoding gene (ladA), which is part of the L-arabinose catabolic pathway. This genomic rearrangement resulted in disruption of both genes and, as a consequence, the inability of the mutant to use L-arabinose as a carbon source, while growth on D-xylose was unaffected. Complementation with constitutively expressed ladA confirmed that the xylanase overproducing phenotype was mainly caused by loss of ladA function, while a knockout of xlnR in the UV mutant demonstrated that improved xylanase production was mediated by XlnR. This study demonstrates the potential of metabolic manipulation for increased production of fungal enzymes. 
Biological implications and regulatory mechanisms of long-range chromosomal interactions.	Development of high-throughput sequencing-based methods has enabled us to examine nuclear architecture at unprecedented resolution, allowing further examination of the function of long-range chromosomal interactions. Here, we review methods used to investigate novel long-range chromosomal interactions and genome-wide organization of chromatin. We further discuss transcriptional activation and silencing in relation to organization and positioning of gene loci and regulation of chromatin organization through protein complexes and noncoding RNAs. 
Complex rearrangement of the exon 6 genomic region among Opitz G/BBB Syndrome MID1 alterations.	Opitz G/BBB Syndrome (OS) is a multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by developmental defects of midline structures. The most relevant clinical signs are ocular hypertelorism, hypospadias, cleft lip and palate, laryngo-tracheo-esophageal abnormalities, imperforate anus, and cardiac defects. Developmental delay, intellectual disability and brain abnormalities are also present. The X-linked form of this disorder is caused by mutations in the MID1 gene coding for a member of the tripartite motif family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Here, we describe 12 novel patients that carry MID1 mutations emphasizing that laryngo-tracheo-esophageal defects are very common in OS patients and, together with hypertelorism and hypospadias, are the most frequent findings among the full spectrum of OS clinical manifestations. Besides missense and nonsense mutations, small insertions and deletions scattered along the entire length of the gene, we found that a consistent number of MID1 alterations are represented by the deletion of single coding exons. Deep characterization of one of these deletions reveals, for the first time within the MID1 gene, a complex rearrangement composed of two deletions, an inversion and a small insertion that may suggest the involvement of concurrent non-homologous mechanisms in the generation of the observed structural variant.
A complex chromosome rearrangement involving four chromosomes, nine breakpoints and a cryptic 0.6-Mb deletion in a boy with cerebellar hypoplasia and defects in skull ossification.	Constitutional complex chromosomal rearrangements (CCRs) are considered rare cytogenetic events. Most apparently balanced CCRs are de novo and are usually found in patients with abnormal phenotypes. High-resolution techniques are unveiling genomic imbalances in a great percentage of these cases. In this paper, we report a patient with growth and developmental delay, dysmorphic features, nervous system anomalies (pachygyria, hypoplasia of the corpus callosum and cerebellum), a marked reduction in the ossification of the cranial vault, skull base sclerosis, and cardiopathy who presents a CCR with 9 breakpoints involving 4 chromosomes (3, 6, 8 and 14) and a 0.6-Mb deletion in 14q24.1. Although the only genomic imbalance revealed by the array technique was a deletion, the clinical phenotype of the patient most likely cannot be attributed exclusively to haploinsufficiency. Other events must also be considered, including the disruption of critical genes and position effects. A combination of several different investigative approaches (G-banding, FISH with different probes and SNP array techniques) was required to describe this CCR in full, suggesting that CCRs may be more frequent than initially thought. Additionally, we propose that a chain chromosome breakage mechanism may have occurred as a single rearrangement event resulting in this CCR. This study demonstrates the importance of applying different cytogenetic and molecular techniques to detect subtle rearrangements and to delineate the rearrangements at a more accurate level, providing a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in CCR formation and a better correlation with phenotype.
Micro-evolution in grasshoppers mediated by polymorphic Robertsonian translocations.	This review focuses on grasshoppers that are polymorphic for Robertsonian translocations because in these organisms the clarity of meiotic figures allows the study of both chiasma distribution and the orientation of trivalents and multivalents in metaphase I. Only five species of such grasshoppers were found in the literature, and all of them were from the New World: Oedaleonotus enigma (Scudder) (Orthoptera: Acrididae), Leptysma argentina Bruner, Dichroplus pratensis Bruner, Sinipta dalmani Stl, and Cornops aquaticum Bruner. A general feature of these species (except O. enigma) is that fusion carriers suffer a marked reduction of proximal and interstitial (with respect to the centromere) chiasma frequency; this fact, along with the reduction in the number of linkage groups with the consequent loss of independent segregation, produces a marked decrease of recombination in fusion carriers. This reduction in recombination has led to the conclusion that Robertsonian polymorphic grasshopper species share some properties with inversion polymorphic species of Drosophila, such as the central-marginal pattern (marginal populations are monomorphic, central populations are highly polymorphic). This pattern might be present in D. pratensis, which is certainly the most complex Robertsonian polymorphism system in the present study. However, L. argentina and C. aquaticum do not display this pattern. This issue is open to further research. Since C. aquaticum is soon to be released in South Africa as a biological control, the latitudinal pattern found in South America may repeat there. This experiment's outcome is open and deserves to be followed.
Genetic tools for risk-stratification in multiple myeloma]	Genetic studies have a central role in the study of multiple myeloma (MM), as they become a critical component in the risk-based stratification of the disease. Significant efforts have been made to identify genetic changes and signatures that can predict clinical outcome and include them in the routine clinical care. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) still remains the most used genetic technique in clinical practice, mostly due to its very straightforward implementation and the simplicity of data analysis. The advent of high-resolution genomics (i.e. array CGH, exome and whole genome sequencing) and transcriptomics tests (i.e. gene expression profiling - GEP, and mRNA sequencing) provide a comprehensive analysis of the already defined genetic prognostic factors and are helpful tools for the identification of potential novel disease markers on the MM tumor clone. Indeed, GEP has been successfully implemented in MM as a risk-stratification tool, holding the greatest power in outcome discrimination. Nevertheless, some technical and logistic intricacies (need of a highly purified tumor clone, cost of the assay and complexity of data analysis) need to be considered before the definitive incorporation of high-throughput technologies in routine clinical tests. Until then, FISH remains the standard tool for genomic abnormality detection and disease prognostication. 
Spatial dynamics of chromosome translocations in living cells.	Chromosome translocations are a hallmark of cancer cells. We have developed an experimental system to visualize the formation of translocations in living cells and apply it to characterize the spatial and dynamic properties of translocation formation. We demonstrate that translocations form within hours of the occurrence of double-strand breaks (DSBs) and that their formation is cell cycle-independent. Translocations form preferentially between prepositioned genome elements, and perturbation of key factors of the DNA repair machinery uncouples DSB pairing from translocation formation. These observations generate a spatiotemporal framework for the formation of translocations in living cells. 
A mutation in mouse Pak1ip1 causes orofacial clefting while human PAK1IP1 maps to 6p24 translocation breaking points associated with orofacial clefting.	Orofacial clefts are among the most common birth defects and result in an improper formation of the mouth or the roof of the mouth. Monosomy of the distal aspect of human chromosome 6p has been recognized as causative in congenital malformations affecting the brain and cranial skeleton including orofacial clefts. Among the genes located in this region is PAK1IP1, which encodes a nucleolar factor involved in ribosomal stress response. Here, we report the identification of a novel mouse line that carries a point mutation in the Pak1ip1 gene. Homozygous mutants show severe developmental defects of the brain and craniofacial skeleton, including a median orofacial cleft. We recovered this line of mice in a forward genetic screen and named the allele manta-ray (mray). Our findings prompted us to examine human cases of orofacial clefting for mutations in the PAK1IP1 gene or association with the locus. No deleterious variants in the PAK1IP1 gene coding region were recognized, however, we identified a borderline association effect for SNP rs494723 suggesting a possible role for the PAK1IP1 gene in human orofacial clefting. 
Dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization reveals an association of chromosome 8q22 but not 8p21 imbalance with high grade invasive breast carcinoma.	We previously reported molecular karyotype analysis of invasive breast tumour core needle biopsies by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) (Walker et al, Genes Chromosomes Cancer, 2008 May;47(5):405-17). That study identified frequently recurring gains and losses involving chromosome bands 8q22 and 8p21, respectively. Moreover, these data highlighted an association between 8q22 gain and typically aggressive grade 3 tumors. Here we validate and extend our previous investigations through FISH analysis of tumor touch imprints prepared from excised breast tumor specimens. Compared to post-surgical tumor excisions, core needle biopsies are known to be histologically less precise when predicting tumor grade. Therefore investigating these chromosomal aberrations in tumor samples that offer more reliable pathological assessment is likely to give a better overall indication of association. A series of 60 breast tumors were screened for genomic copy number changes at 8q22 and 8p21 by dual-color FISH. Results confirm previous findings that 8p loss (39%) and 8q gain (74%) occur frequently in invasive breast cancer. Both absolute quantification of 8q22 gain across the sample cohort, and a separate relative assessment by 8q22:8p21 copy number ratio, showed that the incidence of 8q22 gain significantly increased with grade (p = 0.004, absolute and p = 0.02, relative). In contrast, no association was found between 8p21 loss and tumor grade. These findings support the notion that 8q22 is a region of interest for invasive breast cancer pathogenesis, potentially harboring one or more genes that, when amplified, precipitate the molecular events that define high tumor grade.
Karyotype-phenotype correlation in partial trisomies of the short arm of chromosome 6: a family case report and review of the literature.	The first child (proband) of nonconsanguineous Caucasian parents underwent genetic investigation because she was affected with congenital choanal atresia, heart defects and kidney hyposplasia with mild transient renal insufficiency. The direct DNA sequencing after PCR of the CHD7 gene, which is thought to be responsible for approximately 60-70% of the cases of CHARGE syndrome/association, found no mutations. The cytogenetic analysis (standard GTG banding karyotype) revealed the presence of extrachromosomal material on 10q. The chromosome analysis was completed with array CGH (30 kb resolution), MLPA and FISH, which allowed the identification of three 6p regions (6p.25.3p23  3): 2 of these regions are normally located on chromosome 6, and the third region is translocated to the long arm of chromosome 10. The same chromosomal rearrangement was subsequently found in the father, who was affected with congenital ptosis and progressive hearing loss, and in the proband's sister, the second child, who presented at birth with choanal atresia and congenital heart defects. The mutated karyotypes, which were directly inherited, are thought to be responsible for a variable phenotype, including craniofacial dysmorphisms, choanal atresia, congenital ptosis, sensorineural hearing loss, heart defects, developmental delay, and renal dysfunction. Nevertheless, to achieve a complete audiological assessment of the father, he underwent further investigation that revealed an increased level of the coagulation factor XIII (300% increased activity), fluctuating levels of fibrin D-dimer degradation products (from 296 to 1,587 ng/ml) and a homoplasmic mitochondrial DNA mutation: T961G in the MTRNR1 (12S rRNA) gene. He was made a candidate for cochlear implantation. Preoperative high-resolution computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the temporal bone revealed the presence of an Arnold-Chiari malformation type I. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the second report on partial 6p trisomy that involves the 10q terminal region. Furthermore, we report the first case of documented Arnold-Chiari malformation type I and increased factor XIII activity associated with 6p trisomy. We present a comprehensive report of the familial cases and an exhaustive literature review.
Chromosomal rearrangements in Tourette syndrome: implications for identification of candidate susceptibility genes and review of the literature.	Tourette syndrome (TS) is a childhood-onset complex neurobiological disorder characterized by a combination of persistent motor and vocal tics and frequent presence of other neuropsychiatric comorbidities. TS shares the fate of other complex disorders, where the genetic etiology is largely unknown, and identification of susceptibility genes through linkage and association studies has been complicated due to inherent difficulties such as no clear mode of inheritance, genetic heterogeneity, and apparently incomplete penetrance. Positional cloning through mapping of disease-related chromosome rearrangements has been an efficient tool for the cloning of disease genes in several Mendelian disorders and in a number of complex disorders. Through cytogenetic investigation of 205 TS patients, we identified three possibly disease-associated chromosome rearrangements rendering this approach relevant in chasing TS susceptibility genes. 
6-Mercaptopurine augments glucose transport activity in skeletal muscle cells in part via a mechanism dependent upon orphan nuclear receptor NR4A3.	The purine anti-metabolite 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) is widely used for the treatment of leukemia and inflammatory diseases. The cellular effects of 6-MP on metabolism remain unknown; however, 6-MP was recently found to activate the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A3 in skeletal muscle cell lines. We have reported previously that NR4A3 (also known as NOR-1, MINOR) is a positive regulator of insulin sensitivity in adipocytes. To further explore the role of NR4A3 activation in insulin action, we explored whether 6-MP activation of NR4A3 could modulate glucose transport system activity in L6 skeletal muscle cells. We found that 6-MP increased both NR4A3 expression and NR4A3 transcriptional activity and enhanced glucose transport activity via increasing GLUT4 translocation in both basal and insulin-stimulated L6 cells in an NR4A3-dependent manner. Furthermore, 6-MP increased levels of phospho-AS160, although this effect was not modulated by NR4A3 overexpression or knockdown. These primary findings provide a novel proof of principle that 6-MP, a small molecule NR4A3 agonist, can augment glucose uptake in insulin target cells, although this occurs via both NR4A3-dependent and -independent actions; the latter is related to an increase in phospho-AS160. These results establish a novel target for development of new treatments for insulin resistance.
Introgression of A- and B-genome of tetraploid triticale chromatin into tetraploid rye.	An improvement of rye is one of the mainstream goals of current breeding. Our study is concerned with the introduction of the tetraploid triticale (ABRR) into the 4x rye (RRRR) using classical methods of distant crossing. One hundred fifty BC1F9 hybrid plants [(4x rye4x triticales)4x rye] obtained from a backcrossing program were studied. The major aim of this work was to verify the presence of an introgressed A- and B- genome chromatin of triticale in a collection of the 4x rye-tiritcale hybrids and to determine their chromosome compositions. In the present study, karyotypes of the previously reported BC1F2s and BC1F3s were compared with that of the BC1F9 generation as obtained after several subsequent open pollinations. The genomic in situ hybridisation (GISH) allowed us to identify 133 introgression forms in which chromosome numbers ranged between 26 and 32. Using four DNA probes (5S rDNA, 25S rDNA, pSc119.2 and pAs1), the fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) was carried out to facilitate an exact chromosome identification in the hybrid plants. The combination of the multi-colour GISH with the repetitive DNA FISH singled out five types of translocated chromosomes: 2A.2R, 4A.4R, 5A.5R, 5B.5R and 7A.7R among the examined BC1F9s. The reported translocation lines could serve as valuable sources of wheat chromatin suitable for further improvements of rye. 
Isolation and molecular analysis of genes Stpk-V2 and Stpk-V3 homologous to powdery mildew resistance gene Stpk-V in a Dasypyrum villosum accession and its derivatives.	Wheat-Dasypyrum villosum translocated chromosomes T6V#2S6AL and T6V#4S6DL are known to confer excellent resistance to wheat powdery mildew (PM). However, it is difficult to distinguish the two sources of PM resistance genes through multi-pathotype testing because to date no virulence for them has been found. To reveal the relationship between the PM resistance genes from the two translocations, the sequence of the Stpk-V gene, a key member of powdery mildew resistance locus Pm21, was used as a reference to isolate homologous genes from a D. villosum accession No.1026 and its derivatives 6V#4(6D) disomic substitution (DS) line RW15 and T6V#4S6DL translocation line Pm97033. Two genes Stpk-V2 and Stpk-V3 were cloned from No.1026. Sequence alignment showed that Stpk-V2 and Stpk-V3 shared 98.2% and 96.2% of their DNA and 99.3% and 100% of their amino acids in identity with Stpk-V. Compared with Stpk-V, a 22-bp direct sequence repeat and a miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) were found in the intron 4 of Stpk-V2 and Stpk-V3, respectively. However, Stpk-V2 was not present in DS line RW15 and translocation line Pm97033 based on the PCR result, indicating that Stpk-V2 did not contribute to the PM resistance of RW15 and Pm97033. In the promoter region, a 78-bp insertion was found not only in Stpk-V2 and Stpk-V3, but also in its orthologous gene Stpk-A of wheat. In addition, there was a 17bp/8bp deletion/insertion in the putative promoter of Stpk-V3 in comparison with that of Stpk-V/Stpk-V2. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that the expression levels of Stpk-V and Stpk-V3 genes in the translocation lines were induced by the pathogen, but Stpk-V had a higher expression level than Stpk-V3 at 12h after inoculation with Bgt. The diversity of Stpk-V gene will help to explore new resistance genes to PM in D. villosum for wheat breeding. 
Frequency of ERG-positive prostate carcinoma in Polands.	Prostatic carcinoma (PC) is one of the most frequent cancers in men. Molecular pathogenesis of PC remains poorly understood. Translocations involving ERG were found to be the single most frequent genetic event. A strong correlation exists between this translocation and ERG positivity on immunohistochemistry. The rate of ERG positivity and its relationship with other clinicopathological parameters differ between populations and between studies; in particular, there are few data on ERG-positive PC in Eastern Europeans. In the present study, tissue microarrays of unselected PC cases were constructed and standard immunohistochemistry for ERG performed. The results were compared with the basic pathologic prognostic parameters. The group under study consisted of 113 cases; 52 (46.02%) were positive for ERG. The positive cases showed a slightly higher Gleason score (median 6 vs. 7). The majority of ERG-positive cases showed nerve bundle invasion and were also less likely to be prostate confined than negative ones. In conclusion, the frequency of ERG-positive PC in our series is similar to Western populations, and they show some unfavorable prognostic features. 
Acute myeloid leukemia with t(11;12)(p15;q13) translocation: two cases report and literature review]	To investigate the clinical and laboratory features of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(11;12)(p15;q13) translocation.
Detection of heterogeneity and evolution of subclones in t(8;21) AML by QM-FISH]	To explore the heterogeneous subclones in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(8;21) by quantitative multicolor- fluorescence in situ hybridization (QM-FISH), and to figure out whether there is putative ancestral relationship among different subclones.
Temozolomide-related acute lymphoblastic leukemia with translocation (4;11)(q21;q23) in a glioblastoma patient.	Temozolomide (TMZ), an alkylating agent, is widely used for treating high-grade gliomas. TMZ has been reported to cause secondary myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. However, TMZ-related acute lymphoblastic leukemia is rare. Here we describe a 54-year-old woman with glioblastoma multiforme, who developed precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia with translocation (4;11)(q21;q23) after 15 months of TMZ treatment.
Interferon-inducible gene maps to a chromosomal band associated with a (4;11) translocation in acute leukemia cells.	An interferon-inducible cytokine, IP-10, containing homology to a family of proteins having chemotactic (platelet factor 4, beta-thromboglobulin) and mitogenic (connective tissue-activating peptide III) activities has been mapped to chromosome 4 at band q21, a locus associated with an acute monocytic/B-lymphocyte lineage leukemia that exhibits the nonrandom translocation t(4;11)(q21;q23). In situ hybridization of t(4;11)(q21;q23)-carrying leukemic cells revealed that the IP-10 gene is proximal to the breakpoint of this translocation. No DNA rearrangement was evident when the IP-10 gene was hybridized to genomic DNA isolated from two patients' leukemic cells that contain t(4;11)(q21;q23). However, restriction fragment length polymorphism in the 5' region of the IP-10 gene was detected. The ETS1 protooncogene is located at 11q23 and is known to translocate to chromosome 4 in t(4;11) (q21;q23) and into the interferon gene cluster in (9;11) (p22;q23). Both translocations are associated with acute monocytic leukemia. These results suggest a model in which juxtaposition of genetic loci regulated by antiproliferative signals, such as interferon, next to an oncogene, like ETS1, could effectively short circuit homeostatic control circuits and contribute to the neoplastic state.
A chicken transferrin gene in transgenic mice escapes X-chromosome inactivation.	Mammalian X-chromosome inactivation involves a coordinate shutting down of physically linked genes. Several proposed models require the presence of specific sequences near genes to permit the spread of inactivation into these regions. If such models are correct, one might predict that heterologous genes transferred onto the X chromosome might lack the appropriate signal sequences and therefore escape inactivation. To determine whether a foreign gene inserted into the X chromosome is subject to inactivation, transgenic mice harboring 11 copies of the complete, 17-kilobase chicken transferrin gene on the X chromosome were used. Male mice hemizygous for this insert were bred with females bearing Searle's translocation, an X-chromosome rearrangement that is always active in heterozygous females (the unrearranged X chromosome is inactive). Female offspring bearing the Searle's translocation and the chicken transferrin gene had the same amount of chicken transferrin messenger RNA in liver as did transgenic male mice or transgenic female mice lacking the Searle's chromosome. This result shows that the inserted gene is not subject to X-chromosome inactivation and suggests that the inactivation process cannot spread over 187 kilobases of DNA in the absence of specific signal sequences required for inactivation.
Recent selection on the Y-to-dot translocation in Drosophila pseudoobscura.	The Drosophila pseudoobscura dot chromosome acquired genes from the ancestral Drosophila Y chromosome in a Y-to-dot translocation event that occurred between 12.7 and 20.8 Ma. The formerly Y-linked genes mostly retained their testis-specific expression but shrank drastically in size, mostly through intron reduction, since becoming part of the dot chromosome in this species. We investigated the impact of this translocation on the evolution of the both the Y-to-dot translocated region and the original segments of the dot chromosome in D. pseudoobscura. Our survey of polymorphism and divergence across the chromosome reveals a reduction in variation, a deletion polymorphism segregating at high frequency, and a shift in the frequency spectra, all consistent with a history of recent selective sweeps in the Y-to-dot translocated region but not on the rest of the dot chromosome. We do find evidence for recombination primarily as gene conversion on the dot chromosome; however, predicted recombination events are restricted to the part of the dot chromosome outside the translocation. It therefore appears that recombination has resulted in a degree of decoupling between the ancestral Y region and the conserved region of the dot chromosome. 
SPAG7 is a candidate gene for the periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenopathy (PFAPA) syndrome.	Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenopathy (PFAPA) syndrome is an auto-inflammatory disease for which a genetic basis has been postulated. Nevertheless, in contrast to the other periodic fever syndromes, no candidate genes have yet been identified. By cloning, following long insert size paired-end sequencing, of a de novo chromosomal translocation t(10;17)(q11.2;p13) in a patient with typical PFAPA syndrome lacking mutations in genes associated with other periodic fever syndromes we identified SPAG7 as a candidate gene for PFAPA. SPAG7 protein is expressed in tissues affected by PFAPA and has been functionally linked to antiviral and inflammatory responses. Haploinsufficiency of SPAG7 due to a microdeletion at the translocation breakpoint leading to loss of exons 2-7 from one allele was associated with PFAPA in the index. Sequence analyses of SPAG7 in additional patients with PFAPA point to genetic heterogeneity or alternative mechanisms of SPAG7 deregulation, such as somatic or epigenetic changes. 
X-autosome translocations in amenorrhoea: a report of a three way translocation from Indian population.	Chromosomal translocations have been reported in a number of women undergoing cytogenetic studies for amenorrhoea and gonadal dysgenesis. This study was taken up to emphasize the role of X chromosome and to know the frequency of X-autosomal translocations in women with amenorrhoea in Indian population. Cytogenetic analysis was carried out in 1567 subjects referred for amenorrhoea during the period 2002-2012. GTG-banding was performed from peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures to detect the chromosome abnormalities in all the cases. The karyotype results revealed 43.6% cases with chromosomal abnormalities (n=683 of 1567 cases). The X-autosomal translocations was found in 2.64% (n=18 of 683 cases). The common chromosomes involved with X were chromosomes 2, 4, 14 and 20. The translocations involved both p and q arms of the X chromosome.The break point "q26" of X was observed in the majority of the cases. Two interesting cases are discussed: one with three way translocation and another with two translocations. A high number of primary amenorrhoea (PA) and secondary amenorrhoea (SA) cases were involved in X-auto translocation which clearly reveals that chromosomal analysis plays an important role in the evaluation of amenorrhoea.
Characteristics of a cell line (Tong/HCC) established from a human hepatocellular carcinoma.	A continuous adherent cell line was established from a hepatocellular carcinoma of an HBsAg-positive Italian male. This cell line, designated Tong/HCC, has been grown in a hormone-supplemented medium for more than 18 months. The cell line secretes HBsAg, alpha-fetoprotein, albumin and alpha 1-antitrypsin. alpha-Fetoprotein production is enhanced by the addition of hydrocortisone and appears to be glucocorticoid concentration-dependent. The concentrates of the supernatant from the cell cultures and cell lysates were negative when tested for HBeAg. The cell culture medium was negative for hepatitis B virus DNA when tested by dot-blot hybridization. However, hepatitis B virus DNA was found to be integrated in the chromosomal DNA by Southern blot analysis. At least five different integration sites were identified, and no free hepatitis B virus DNA was observed. The modal chromosome number was 64, and a translocation on Chromosome 15 was consistently noted. HLA typing revealed sites for A3, Aw24, Bw34 and Cw1.
Impact of Robertsonian translocation on meiosis and reproduction: an impala (Aepyceros melampus) model.	The captive bred animal populations showing centric fusion polymorphism can serve as a model for analysis of the impact of the rearrangement on meiosis and reproduction. The synapsis of homologous chromosomes and the frequency and distribution of meiotic recombination events were studied in pachytene spermatocytes of captive bred male impalas (Aepyceros melampus) polymorphic for der(14;20) by immunofluorescent analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization. The chromosomes 14 and 20 involved in the centric fusion were significantly shorter due to the loss of sat I repeats indicating ancient origin of the rearrangement. The fused chromosome and the normal acrocentric chromosomes 14 and 20 formed trivalent in pachynema which showed either protruding proximal ends of the acrocentric chromosomes or single axis with synaptic adjustment in the pericentromeric region. There was no significant difference in the number of recombination events per cell between the group of translocation heterozygotes and the animals with normal karyotype. A significant reduction in the number of recombination events was observed in the trivalent chromosomes compared to the normal chromosomes 14 and 20. The level of the recombination reduction was related to the trivalent configuration. The centric fusion der(14;20) was not apparently demonstrated by any spermatogenic defects or reproductive impairment in heterozygous impalas. However, the high incidence of the chromosomal polymorphism within the captive bred population shows the importance of cytogenetic examinations in captive breeding and wildlife conservation programs, especially in the case of reintroduction of the endangered species. 
Association of the type of 5q loss with complex karyotype, clonal evolution, TP53 mutation status, and prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.	We analyzed 1,200 patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) harboring a 5q deletion in order to clarify whether the type of 5q loss is associated with other biological markers and prognosis. We investigated all patients by chromosome banding analysis, FISH with a probe for EGR1 (5q31) and, if necessary, to resolve complex karyotypes with 24-color-FISH. Moreover, 420 patients were analyzed for mutations in the TP53 gene. The patient cohort was subdivided based on type of 5q loss: Patients with interstitial deletions and patients with 5q loss due to unbalanced rearrangements or monosomy 5. Loss of the long arm of chromosome 5 due to an unbalanced rearrangement occurred more often in AML (286/627; 45.6%) than MDS (188/573; 32.8%; P<0.001). In both entities, patients with 5q loss due to unbalanced translocations showed complex karyotypes more frequently (MDS: 179/188; 95.2% vs. 124/385; 32.2%; P<0.001; AML: 274/286; 95.8% vs. 256/341; 75.1%; P<0.001). Moreover, in MDS unbalanced 5q translocations were associated with clonal evolution (109/188; 58.0% vs. 124/385; 32.2%; P<0.001), mutation of TP53 (64/67; 95.5% vs. 40/120; 40.0%; P<0.001), and shorter survival (15.3 months vs. not reached; P<0.001). In MDS, complex karyotype was an independent adverse prognostic factor (HR=5.34; P=0.032), whereas in AML presence of TP53 mutations was the strongest adverse prognostic factor (HR=2.21; P=0.026). In conclusion, in AML and MDS, loss of the long arm of chromosome 5 due to unbalanced translocations is associated with complex karyotype and in MDS, moreover, with clonal evolution, mutations in the TP53 gene and adverse prognosis.
Jumping translocations of 1q12 in multiple myeloma: a novel mechanism for deletion of 17p in cytogenetically defined high-risk disease.	Multiple myeloma (MM) is a B-cell malignancy driven in part by increasing copy number alterations (CNAs) during disease progression. Prognostically significant CNAs accumulate during clonal evolution and include gains of 1q21 and deletions of 17p, among others. Unfortunately, the mechanisms underlying the accumulation of CNAs and resulting subclonal heterogeneity in high-risk MM are poorly understood. To investigate the impact of jumping translocations of 1q12 (JT1q12) on receptor chromosomes (RCs) and subsequent clonal evolution, we analyzed specimens from 86 patients selected for unbalanced 1q12 aberrations by G-banding. Utilizing spectral karyotyping and locus-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization, we identified 10 patients with unexpected focal amplifications of an RC that subsequently translocated as part of a sequential JT1q12 to one or more additional RCs. Four patients exhibited amplification and translocation of 8q24 (MYC), 3 showed amplification of 16q11, and 1 each displayed amplification of 18q21.3 (BCL2), 18q23, or 4p16 (FGFR3). Unexpectedly, in 6 of 14 patients with the combination of the t(4;14) and deletion of 17p, we identified the loss of 17p as resulting from a JT1q12. Here, we provide evidence that the JT1q12 is a mechanism for the simultaneous gain of 1q21 and deletion of 17p in cytogenetically defined high-risk disease. 
Diagnostic utility of molecular investigation in extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma.	Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is characterized by the reciprocal chromosomal translocation t(9;22) and the resultant fused gene EWS RNA-binding protein 1 and nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 3 (EWSR1-NR4A3). A second cytogenetic rearrangement t(9;17) involves the genes NR4A3 and TAF 15 RNA polymerase II, TATA box binding protein (TBP)-associated factor (TAF15). Less frequent fusion transcript variants of the NR4A3 gene, transcription factor 12 (TCF12)-NR4A3 and TRK-fused gene (TFG)-NR4A3, are associated with t(9;15) and t(9;3) respectively. The samples from 42 patients with extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma were examined for the presence of EWSR1-NR4A3, TAF15-NR4A3, TCF12-NR4A3, and TFG-NR4A3 fusion transcripts by using RT-PCR. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed to analyze the status of EWSR1 and NR4A3 genes. The fusion transcripts were detected in 34 of 42 samples (81%); the presence of an EWSR1 or NR4A3 gene rearrangements were detected in 8 of 42 samples (19%) which had tested negative for all fusion transcripts detected by RT-PCR. Of the 34 samples evaluable for fusion transcripts, 23 yielded positive results for EWSR1-NR4A3, 10 for TAF15-NR4A3, and 1 for TCF12-NR4A3. The combination of RT-PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization on frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue is a sensitive and specific method for molecular detection of recurrent translocations and is an important ancillary method to establish the diagnosis of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma.
Randomised phase III trial of trabectedin versus doxorubicin-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy in translocation-related sarcomas.	This randomised phase III trial evaluated first-line trabectedin versus doxorubicin-based chemotherapy (DXCT) in patients with advanced/metastatic translocation-related sarcomas (TRS).
Considering specific clinical features as evidence of pathogenic copy number variants.	Since the introduction of high-resolution microarray technologies, it has become apparent that structural chromosomal rearrangements can lead to a wide variety of clinical manifestations, including developmental delay/intellectual disability (DD/ID). It has been shown previously that the diagnostic yield of genome-wide array-based identification of submicroscopic alterations in patients with ID varies widely and depends on the patient selection criteria. More attempts have recently been made to define the phenotypic clues of pathogenic copy number variants (CNVs). The aim of this study was to investigate a well-phenotyped cohort of patients with DD/ID and determine whether certain clinical features may serve as indicators for pathogenic CNVs. A retrospective analysis was conducted for patients with DD/ID (n=211) who were tested using genome-wide chromosomal microarray technologies and a review of the clinical data was performed. Pathogenic CNVs were detected in 29 patients. In comparison with individuals who had normal molecular karyotyping results (n=182), malformations of the musculoskeletal system; congenital malformations of the CNS (particularly hydrocephalus and congenital malformations of the corpus callosum); minor anomalies of the eye, face, and neck subgroup (particularly downward-slanting palpebral fissures, minor anomalies of the ear, and micrognathia); brachydactyly; and umbilical hernia were more common in patients with chromosomal alterations. A multivariate logistic regression analysis allowed the identification of three independent pathogenic CNV predictors: congenital malformations of the corpus callosum, minor anomalies of the ear, and brachydactyly. Insights into the chromosomal phenotype may help to increase the diagnostic yield of microarray technologies and sharpen the distinction between chromosomal alterations and other conditions. 
Preferential response of acute myeloid leukemias with translocation involving chromosome 17 to human recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.	Induction of proliferation and differentiation in response to the addition of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was studied by both suspension and semisolid cultures in a series of acute myeloid leukemias (AML). Induction of proliferation by G-CSF alone was observed in six of 27 cases of AML. All acute promyelocytic leukemias with the specific chromosomal translocation t(15;17) and one case of myelomonocytic leukemia with balanced chromosomal translocation involving chromosome 17 at band q12q21 were induced to proliferate strongly by the G-CSF. However, contrary to the long-term proliferative effect observed with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), G-CSF activity can be characterized by its capability to initiate and promote the growth of responding AML cells but not to sustain long-term proliferation. Finally, no terminal differentiation was found, as assessed by morphology, cytochemistry, and cell surface marker analysis. These results indicate that G-CSF may be sufficient to provide a specific signal for induction of a transient proliferation in AML without induction of terminal differentiation. The cells with the highest response are clonal leukemia cells, all bearing a translocation involving the chromosome region 17q12q21 in which the G-CSF gene has been recently located.
Origin of the X1X1X2X2/X1X2Y sex chromosome system of Harttia punctata (Siluriformes, Loricariidae) inferred from chromosome painting and FISH with ribosomal DNA markers.	Harttia is a genus in the subfamily Loricariinae that accommodates fishes popularly known as armored catfishes. They show extensive karyotypic diversity regarding interspecific numerical/structural variation of the karyotypes, with the presence of the XX/XY1Y2 multiple sex chromosome system, as found in H. carvalhoi. In this context, this study aimed to characterize Harttia punctata chromosomally, for the first time, and to infer the rearrangements that originated the X1X1X2X2/X1X2Y multiple sex chromosome system present in this species. The data obtained in this study, with classical (Giemsa, C-banding and AgNORs) and molecular methodologies (fluorescence in situ hybridization) and chromosome microdissection, indicated that a translocation between distinct acrocentric chromosomes bearing rRNA genes, accompanied by deletions in both chromosomes, might have originated the neo-Y chromosome in this species. The data also suggest that the multiple sex chromosome systems present in H. carvalhoi and H. punctata had an independent origin, evidencing the recurrence of chromosome alterations in species from this genus.
Overcoming the resistance to crizotinib in patients with non-small cell lung cancer harboring EML4/ALK translocation.	The large knowledge learned in molecular biology specifically in the oncology field during the last ten years has resulted in fruitful results for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. The first pathway to be effectively targeted in lung cancer was the epidermal growth factor receptor. The acceptance of epidermal growth factor receptor mutation as a strong predictive biomarker in non-small cell lung carcinoma has encouraged the search for more targets. In 2011, regulatory entities granted conditional approval to an anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitor (crizotinib) based on an impressive overall response rate in previously treated non-small cell lung cancer patients whose tumors harbored EML4/ALK translocations. The landmark approval of crizotinib based on early promising clinical data highlights the remarkable success of molecular medicine in lung cancer therapeutics. The cumulative data developed after that approval has confirmed the appropriateness of this decision as recently reported phase III has now demonstrated. Unfortunately, resistance to this agent invariably develops and we now face the challenge of understanding several resistance pathways and overcoming them with new and more potent compounds. New agents in clinical development such as alectinib, LDK378, AP26113, and AUY922 have not only demonstrated promising activity in crizotinib resistant patients, but also crossing new pharmacokinetic boundaries in ALK inhibition as potent CNS penetration.
Novel CSF1-S100A10 fusion gene and CSF1 transcript identified by RNA sequencing in tenosynovial giant cell tumors.	RNA-sequencing was performed on three tenosynovial giant cell tumors (TSGCT) in an attempt to elicit more information on the mechanisms of CSF1 expression in this tumor type. A novel CSF1-S100A10 fusion gene was found in a TSGCT that carried the translocation t(1;1)(q21;p11) as the sole karyotypic abnormality. In this fusion gene, the part of CSF1 coding for the CSF1 protein (exons 1-8 in sequences with accession nos. NM_000757 and NM_172212) is fused to the 3'-part of S100A10. Since the stop codon TAG of CSF1 is present in it, the CSF1-S100A10 fusion gene's predominant consequence seems to be the replacement of the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of CSF1 (exon9; nt2092-4234 in sequence with accession no. NM_000757 or nt2092-2772 in NM_172212) by the 3'-end of S100A10 (exon3; nt641-1055 in sequence with accession no.NM_002966). In the other two TSGCT, a novel CSF1 transcript was detected, the same in both tumors. Similar to the occurrence in the CSF1-S100A10 fusion gene, the novel CSF1 transcript 3'-UTR is replaced by a new exon located ~48kb downstream of CSF1 and 11kb upstream of AHCYL1. Although only 3 TSGCT were available for study, the finding in all of them of a novel CSF1-S100A10 fusion gene or CSF1 transcript indicates the existence of a common pathogenetic theme in this tumor type: the replacement of the 3'-UTR of CSF1 with other sequences. 
A robust approach for blind detection of balanced chromosomal rearrangements with whole-genome low-coverage sequencing.	Balanced chromosomal rearrangement (or balanced chromosome abnormality, BCA) is a common chromosomal structural variation. Next-generation sequencing has been reported to detect BCA-associated breakpoints with the aid of karyotyping. However, the complications associated with this approach and the requirement for cytogenetics information has limited its application. Here, we provide a whole-genome low-coverage sequencing approach to detect BCA events independent of knowing the affected regions and with low false positives. First, six samples containing BCAs were used to establish a detection protocol and assess the efficacy of different library construction approaches. By clustering anomalous read pairs and filtering out the false-positive results with a control cohort and the concomitant mapping information, we could directly detect BCA events for each sample. Through optimizing the read depth, BCAs in all samples could be blindly detected with only 120 million read pairs per sample for data from a small-insert library and 30 million per sample for data from nonsize-selected mate-pair library. This approach was further validated using another 13 samples that contained BCAs. Our approach advances the application of high-throughput whole-genome low-coverage analysis for robust BCA detection-especially for clinical samples-without the need for karyotyping. 
Detection of MYC rearrangement in high grade B cell lymphomas: correlation of MYC immunohistochemistry and FISH analysis.	The aim of this study was to analyse sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of recently available MYC immunohistochemistry (IHC) against the currently standard diagnostic method, fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) analysis. MYC IHC and FISH analyses were performed on 30 cases of diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) with 80% or more Ki-67 index, one case of DLBCL transformed from follicular lymphoma, three cases of B cell lymphoma intermediate between DLBCL and Burkitt lymphoma (IM), six cases of Burkitt lymphoma (BL) and one case of reactive lymph node. The inclusion criteria of high Ki-67 index, more than 80%, was imposed to exclude dependence of MYC positivity on Ki-67 positivity. The indices of specificity and positive predictive value (PPV) were low and varied widely with different thresholds of IHC positivity in percentage. At the threshold of 40% IHC positivity, specificity index was 0.45 and PPV was 0.37. At the threshold of 50% and 70% IHC positivity, specificity indices were 0.61 and 0.84, and PPVs were 0.45 and 0.67, respectively. Good sensitivity and negative predictive value (NPV) were maintained at all different thresholds. A heterogenous staining pattern of IHC was also noted. The heterogeneous IHC staining pattern observed warranted caution in interpretation and counting of IHC positive cells. MYC protein expression detected by IHC was more common than MYC translocation detected by FISH analysis. As a result, low specificity and PPV of MYC IHC, in relation to FISH analysis, were observed despite good sensitivity and NPV.
Gene-targeted deletion of OPCML and Neurotrimin in mice does not yield congenital heart defects.	Jacobsen syndrome (11q-) is a rare chromosomal disorder caused by deletions in distal11q. Many of the most common and severe congenital heart defects that occur in the general population occur in 11q-. Previous studies have demonstrated that gene-targeted deletion in mice of ETS-1, a cardiac transcription factor in distal 11q, causes ventricular septal defects with 100% penetrance. It is unclear whether deletion of other genes in distal 11q contributes to the full spectrum of congenital heart defects that occur in 11q-. Three patients with congenital heart defects have been identified that carry a translocation or paracentric inversion with a breakpoint in distal 11q disrupting one of two functionally related genes, OPCML and Neurotrimin. OPCML and Neurotrimin are two members of the IgLON subfamily of cell adhesion molecules. In this study, we report the generation and cardiac phenotype of single and double heterozygous gene-targeted OPCML and Neurotrimin knockout mice. No cardiac phenotype was detected, consistent with a single gene model as the cause of the congenital heart defects in 11q-.
Therapy-related acute promyelocytic leukemia following etoposide-based chemotherapy in non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.	Therapy related AML (t- AML) accounts for 10-20% of all cases of AML. Cytotoxic agents implicated are alkylating agents, topoisomerase II inhibitors and rarely anti metabolites and anti tubulin agents. A growing incidence of therapy related acute promyelocytic leukemia (t-APL) has been reported over the last few decades in malignant and non malignant conditions. To the best of our knowledge this is the first t-APL case report to be reported in NSGCT post etoposide based therapy. 
Early onset of Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome with severe liver involvement in a patient with a complex rearrangement of ABHD5 promoter.	/-hydrolase domain-containing protein 5 (ABHD5) plays an important role in the triacylglycerols (TAG) hydrolysis. Indeed, ABHD5 is the co-activator of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), that catalyses the initial step of TAG hydrolysis. Mutations in ABHD5 gene are associated with the onset of Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome (CDS), a rare autosomal recessive lipid storage disorder, characterized by non-bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE), hepatomegaly and liver steatosis.
Chimeric fusion karyotypes in childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Cytogenetics study using combination of conventional cytogenetics and fluorescent insitu hybridization was carried out in 171 pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients subgrouped to B-ALL (n=126) and T-ALL (n=45) by bone marrow morphology and immunophenotype. The chromosomal aberration frequency in B-ALL and T-ALL was 79% and 71%, respectively. TEL/AML1 translocation was detected in 28% of patients. 
Doublehit lymphomas- review of the literature and case report]	Blymphocytes are cells of the immune system responsible for the antibody mediated immune response. As estimated, a human body can produce as much as 1011 specific antibodies. There are no specific genes coding for every individual antibody in the human genome. Discrepancy between the huge diversity of antibodies and limited coding capacity of the genome is solved by combination of unique arrangement of genetic information for immunoglobulin and unique genetic and somatic processes providing this wide spectrum of antibodies. On one side, these mechanisms represent a life protecting source of a wide spectrum of antibodies but at the same time, they can be life threatening by raising the risk of a serious tumor disease, the Bcell lymphoma. Double hit lymphomas represent a specific group of Bcell lymphomas often featuring concurrent rearrangements of BCL2 and MYC genes. Activation of the MYC oncogene, typical for Burkitt lymphoma (BL), causes strong stimulation of cell proliferation. High activity of BCL2, typical for follicular lymphoma, induces resistance to apoptosis. Concurrent damage of regulation of apoptosis and proliferation is probably responsible for the typical clinical manifestation of double hit lymphomas - aggressive course, resistance to conventional chemotherapy, high-risk of early relapse, short overall survival, frequent extranodal and central nervous system involvement. Recently, these lymphomas have attracted a strong attention of researchers as they provide sharp insights into processes of lymphocytes maturing and lymphomas development and highlight the double edged nature of mechanisms allowing the antibody broad diversity.
A strategy for generation and balancing of autosome: Y chromosome translocations.	We describe a method for generation and maintenance of translocations that move large autosomal segments onto the Y chromosome. Using this strategy we produced ( 2;Y) translocations that relocate between 1.5 and 4.8 Mb of the 2nd chromosome.. All translocations were easily balanced over a male-specific lethal 1 (msl-1) mutant chromosome. Both halves of the translocation carry visible markers, as well as P-element ends that enable molecular confirmation. Halves of these translocations can be separated to produce offspring with duplications and with lethal second chromosome deficiencies . Such large deficiencies are otherwise tedious to generate and maintain.
Meiotic chromosome behavior in a human male t(8;15) carrier.	Reciprocal translocation is one of the most common structural chromosomal rearrangements in human beings; it is widely recognized to be associated with male infertility. This association is mainly based on the abnormal chromosome behavior of the translocated chromosomes and sex chromosomes during meiosis prophase I in reciprocal translocation carriers. However, the underlying mechanisms are not completely known. Here we report a reciprocal translocation carrier of t(8;15), who is oligozoospermic due to apoptosis of primary spermatocytes and to premature germ cell desquamation from seminiferous tubules. Further analysis showed abnormal synapsis and recombination frequency in this patient, indicating a connection between chromosome behavior and apoptosis of primary spermatocytes. We also compared these observations with recently reported findings on spermatogenesis defects in reciprocal translocation carriers, and discuss the possible mechanisms underlying both common and unique phenotypes of reciprocal translocations involving different chromosomes with the aim of further understanding the regulation of human spermatogenesis. 
Brief report. Adult patient presenting an interstitial (9) (q21.32q31.1) direct duplication resulting from the malsegregation of a paternal balanced insertional translocation.	The partial trisomy 9q syndrome is a well-defined chromosomal disorder with over 40 reported cases in the literature. However, 9q duplications derived from an insertional translocation have rarely been reported.
Translocations of chromosome end-segments and facultative heterochromatin promote meiotic ring formation in evening primroses.	Due to reciprocal chromosomal translocations, many species of Oenothera (evening primrose) form permanent multichromosomal meiotic rings. However, regular bivalent pairing is also observed. Chiasmata are restricted to chromosomal ends, which makes homologous recombination virtually undetectable. Genetic diversity is achieved by changing linkage relations of chromosomes in rings and bivalents via hybridization and reciprocal translocations. Although the structural prerequisite for this system is enigmatic, whole-arm translocations are widely assumed to be the mechanistic driving force. We demonstrate that this prerequisite is genome compartmentation into two epigenetically defined chromatin fractions. The first one facultatively condenses in cycling cells into chromocenters negative both for histone H3 dimethylated at lysine 4 and for C-banding, and forms huge condensed middle chromosome regions on prophase chromosomes. Remarkably, it decondenses in differentiating cells. The second fraction is euchromatin confined to distal chromosome segments, positive for histone H3 lysine 4 dimethylation and for histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation. The end-segments are deprived of canonical telomeres but capped with constitutive heterochromatin. This genomic organization promotes translocation breakpoints between the two chromatin fractions, thus facilitating exchanges of end-segments. We challenge the whole-arm translocation hypothesis by demonstrating why reciprocal translocations of chromosomal end-segments should strongly promote meiotic rings and evolution toward permanent translocation heterozygosity. Reshuffled end-segments, each possessing a major crossover hot spot, can furthermore explain meiotic compatibility between genomes with different translocation histories. 
t(14;18) Translocation: A predictive blood biomarker for follicular lymphoma.	The (14;18) translocation constitutes both a genetic hallmark and critical early event in the natural history of follicular lymphoma (FL). However, t(14;18) is also detectable in the blood of otherwise healthy persons, and its relationship with progression to disease remains unclear. Here we sought to determine whether t(14;18)-positive cells in healthy individuals represent tumor precursors and whether their detection could be used as an early predictor for FL.
Clinical genetic testing for male factor infertility: current applications and future directions.	Spermatogenesis involves the aggregated action of up to 2300 genes, any of which, could, potentially, provide targets for diagnostic tests of male factor infertility. Contrary to the previously proposed common variant hypothesis for common diseases such as male infertility, genome-wide association studies and targeted gene sequencing in cohorts of infertile men have identified only a few gene polymorphisms that are associated with male infertility. Unfortunately, the search for genetic variants associated with male infertility is further hampered by the lack of viable animal models of human spermatogenesis, difficulty in robustly phenotyping infertile men and the complexity of pedigree studies in male factor infertility. In this review, we describe basic genetic principles involved in understanding the genetic basis of male infertility and examine the utility and proper clinical use of the proven genetic assays of male factor infertility, specifically Y chromosome microdeletions, chromosomal translocations, karyotype, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator mutation analysis and sperm genetic tests. Unfortunately, these tests are only able to diagnose the cause of about 20% of male factor infertility. The remainder of the review will be devoted to examining novel tests and diagnostic tools that have the potential to explain the other 80% of male factor infertility that is currently classified as idiopathic. Those tests include epigenetic analysis of the spermatozoa and the evaluation of rare genetic variants and copy number variations in patients. Success in advancing to the implementation of such areas is not only dependent on technological advances in the laboratory, but also improved phenotyping in the clinic. 
Translocation t(2;7)(p11;q21) associated with the CDK6/IGK rearrangement is a rare but recurrent abnormality in B-cell lymphoproliferative malignancies.	Structural abnormalities of chromosome 7q have been regularly reported in chronic B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. They include chromosomal translocations involving 7q21, leading to overexpression of the CDK6 gene. Three different translocations, t(7;14)(q21;q32), t(7;22)(q21;q11), and t(2;7)(p11;q21), leading to the juxtaposition of the CDK6 gene with a immunoglobulin gene enhancer during B-cell differentiation, have been described. In the past 2 years, we identified three patients with lymphoproliferative malignancy associated with a t(2;7)(p11;q21). Fluorescent in situ hybridization using an IGK probe and a library of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones located in bands 7q21.2 and 7q21.3, containing CDK6, revealed that the telomeric part of the IGK probe was translocated on the der(7) within a 51-kb region upstream of the transcriptional start site of CDK6. A total of 23 patients with indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and juxtaposition of the IG and CDK6 genes, including 20 with IGK and CDK6 juxtaposition, have been reported thus far. This rearrangement leads to the overexpression of CDK6, which encodes a cyclin-dependent protein kinase involved in cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition. 
Combined point mutation in KRAS or EGFR genes and EML4-ALK translocation in lung cancer patients.	A total of three cases with novel constellations regarding mutation patterns in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are reported. The mutation patterns that are observed are novel and unexpected. First, a combined simultaneous KRAS mutation and EML4-ALK translocation, both in the main tumor and a bone metastasis, were observed, these mutations are assumed to mutually exclude each other. A further two cases include a father and a daughter, both of whom are suffering from NSCLC with different EGFR mutation patterns. A common cause was assumed; however, could not be deduced to mutations in the KRAS, BRAF and EGFR genes. The aforementioned cases are important, as it must be taken into account that mutations previously assumed to be exclusive can occur in combination, may influence the clinical outcome and may require different therapy compared with single mutated tumors. It has to be discussed whether diagnostic algorithms need to be adapted. The cases of father and daughter show that further unknown factors can influence development of NSCLC. 
Giant-cell tumor of bone, stage II, displaying translocation t(12;19)(q13;q13).	A new case of giant-cell tumour (GCT) of bone with benign histological features, clinical stage II, has been reviewed with immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. After short-term tissue culture the karyotype, using G-banding techniques, presented a consistent translocation t(12;19)(q13;q13). Nude mice xenografts of the tumour were unsuccessful after 6 months of follow-up. Presence of such chromosomal rearrangement may be related to locally aggressive, histologically benign giant-cell tumors of bone.
5-Azadeoxycytidine induced undercondensation in the giant X chromosomes of Microtus agrestis.	Fibroblasts of female Microtus agrestis were treated with 5-azadeoxycytidine (5-aza-dCyd) at a final concentration of 10(-5) M during the last 2 h of culture. This cytidine analogue induces distinct undercondensation of the constitutive heterochromatin in the giant X chromosomes. The undercondensed heterochromatic thread exhibits longitudinal segmentation reminiscent of a chromomere pattern. In the late-replicating X chromosome, 5-aza-dCyd also inhibits condensation of the genetically inactivated euchromatin (facultative heterochromatin). The described effects of 5-aza-dCyd on the X chromosome structure appear to be incorporation independent.
Preimplantation genetic diagnosis by fluorescence in situ hybridization of reciprocal and Robertsonian translocations.	The presence of reciprocal and Robertsonian chromosomal rearrangement is often related to recurrent miscarriage. Using preimplantation genetic diagnosis, the abortion rate can be decreased. Cases treated at our center were reviewed.
Identification and functional characterization of imatinib-sensitive DTD1-PDGFRB and CCDC88C-PDGFRB fusion genes in eosinophilia-associated myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms.	Eosinophilia-associated myeloid neoplasms with rearrangement of chromosome bands 5q31-33 are frequently associated with PDGFRB fusion genes, which are exquisitely sensitive to treatment with imatinib. In search for novel fusion partners of PDGFRB, we analyzed three cases with translocation t(5;20)(q33;p11), t(5;14)(q33;q32), and t(5;17;14)(q33;q11;q32) by 5-rapid amplification of cDNA ends polymerase chain reaction (5-RACE-PCR) and DNA-based long-distance inverse PCR (LDI-PCR) with primers derived from PDGFRB. LDI-PCR revealed a fusion between CCDC88C exon 25 and PDGFRB exon 11 in the case with t(5;17;14)(q33;q11;q32) while 5-RACE-PCR identified fusions between CCDC88C exon 10 and PDGFRB exon 12 and between DTD1 exon 4 and PDGFRB exon 12 in the cases with t(5;14)(q33;q32) and t(5;20)(q33;p11), respectively. The PDGFRB tyrosine-kinase domain is predicted to be retained in all three fusion proteins. The partner proteins contained coiled-coil domains or other domains, which putatively lead to constitutive activation of the PDGFRB fusion protein. In vitro functional analyses confirmed transforming activity and imatinib-sensitivity of the fusion proteins. All three patients achieved rapid and durable complete hematologic remissions on imatinib.
Juxtaposition of human bcl-2 and immunoglobulin lambda light chain gene in chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the result of a reciprocal chromosome translocation between chromosome 18 and 22.	The human bcl-2 gene is a oncogene candidate which is involved in the t(14;18) translocation specifically associated with follicular and diffuse B cell lymphomas. This translocation deregulates bcl-2 gene expression by placing it into immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (IgH). We have recently reported a case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL 1446) carrying a unique bcl-2 gene rearrangement with the immunoglobulin lambda light chain (Ig lambda) gene. This juxtaposition of the bcl-2 and Ig lambda genes resembles a variant chromosome translocation in Burkitt's lymphoma, although karyotype data of CLL 1446 is not available. In this paper, we completed the structural analysis of the bcl-2/Ig lambda gene rearrangement in CLL 1446 by cloning the corresponding partner of the rearrangement. This revealed that the juxtaposition of the bcl-2 and Ig lambda genes is a result of a reciprocal chromosome translocation between chromosomes 18 and 22 with deletions of 2 and 15 bp, respectively. Although a conserved immunoglobulin recombination signal (7mer-9mer) was absent around the breakpoint on chromosome 18, nonamer-like sequence was recognized within the deleted region at the breakpoint on chromosome 22. No extranucleotide was associated with both joining sites of the t(18;22) translocation. This is in sharp contrast to the t(14;18) translocation involving IgH locus in which the presence of extranucleotides is common and correlates well with the presence and absence of extranucleotides on V-(D)-J joining of IgH and light chain (L) genes, respectively. The data together suggest that the mechanism responsible for the physiological rearrangement of immunoglobulin genes is involved in this translocation.
The establishment of Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-positive (SP-50B) and Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-negative (SP-53) cell lines with t(11;14)(q13;q32) chromosome abnormality from an intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma.	Two lymphoma cell lines, SP-50B and SP-53, were established from peripheral blood of a 58-year-old woman with leukemic conversion of intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma. These cell lines grew in suspension with or without forming clumps of cells. SP-50B was morphologically similar to the common Epstein-Barr (EB) virus-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines and was positive for EB virus nuclear antigen (EBNA), whereas SP-53 closely resembled the patient's lymphoma cells and was negative for EBNA. Both cell lines expressed the same phenotypic markers as original lymphoma cells (CpIg+, SmIg+, OKIa1+, Leu12+) and possessed t(11;14)(q13;q32) chromosome translocation. These results indicate that although morphologically different, SP-50B and SP-53 were both derived from patient's lymphoma cells. The long-term cultivation of EBNA-positive and EBNA-negative B-cell lymphoma lines from a single donor has not been previously reported. These cell lines would provide useful tools for studying the oncogenic role of EB virus and bcl-1 oncogene that is located on chromosome 11q13.
Translocation 10;17 in clear cell sarcoma of the kidney. A first report.	This is the first report of a t(10;17) as the unique cytogenetic finding in one case of a rare childhood tumor, clear cell sarcoma of the kidney (CCSK). This observation is discussed in relation to the cytogenetics of Wilms' tumors, of which CCSK is a variant.
Regional localization of human ecto-5' nucleotidase to chromosome 6q14-q21.	Human and mouse hybrids that contain fragments of human chromosome 6 as translocations were analysed for expression of ecto-5' nucleotidase enzymic activity measured by the conversion of AMP to adenosine and for antigenicity recognized by a monoclonal antibody specific for the human isozyme. Both methods allow a regional assignment of ecto-5'nucleotidase to 6q14-q21.
Comparison of filler DNA at immune, nonimmune, and oncogenic rearrangements suggests multiple mechanisms of formation.	Extra nucleotides (termed filler DNA) are commonly found at the junctions of genetic rearrangements in mammalian cells. The filler DNA at immune system rearrangements, which are called N regions, are generated at VDJ joints primarily by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. However, the origin of filler DNA at genetic rearrangements in nonlymphoid cells is uncertain. In an analysis of more than 200 junctions that arose by circularization of transfected linear DNA (D. B. Roth and J. H. Wilson, Mol. Cell. Biol. 6:4295-4304, 1986), we found 18 junctions with extra nucleotides exactly at the point of circularization. Analysis of these 18 junctions indicated that nonlymphoid cells could add extra nucleotides to the ends of duplex DNA. The characteristics of the extra nucleotides at these junctions and at 31 other rearrangement junctions from nonlymphoid cells were quite similar, suggesting that many genetic rearrangements may pass through a stage with free DNA ends. A comparison of the filler DNA at these 49 nonimmune system rearrangements with 97 N regions derived from immune system rearrangements suggested that lymphoid and nonlymphoid cells use different mechanisms for insertion of filler DNA, as expected from the absence of detectable terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase in cells from nonlymphoid tissues. The filler DNAs at a smaller group of 22 translocations associated with cancer had features in common with both immune and nonimmune system rearrangements and therefore may represent a mixture of these two processes. Mechanisms that might account for the presence of filler DNA in nonlymphoid cells are discussed.
Cytogenetic analysis of Wilms' tumor: evidence of a multistep process.	We report the cytogenetic findings observed in the cancer cells of a Wilms' tumor in a 11-month-old girl without the phenotype of the WAGR. Two populations were identified: one had a 46,XX,del(11)(p11p13) karyotype and the other had a translocation involving the deleted chromosome 11 and chromosome 12, t(11;12)(p11;q13). This result strongly suggests that the deletion of 11p was the initiating event to the tumor and that the translocation has been instrumental in promoting its development.
Selection of human chromosome 21-specific DNA probes for genetic analysis in Alzheimer's dementia and Down syndrome.	We used a mouse-human somatic cell hybrid to construct a chromosome 21-enriched library in phage vector EMBL4. In all, 35 phage clones containing human inserts were identified by differential screening with total human and mouse DNA. Whole recombinant phages were regionally mapped on chromosome 21 by Southern blot analysis using competitive hybridisation conditions to block repetitive sequences. Ten phage clones mapped proximal to a translocation breakpoint in band 21q21.2, while 25 mapped distal to this point. Three of the phage clones identify restriction fragment length polymorphisms. Polymorphic chromosome 21 markers may be useful in the genetic analysis of Alzheimer's dementia and Down syndrome.
Long-range restriction map of a region of human chromosome 19 containing the apolipoprotein genes, a CLL-associated translocation breakpoint, and two polymorphic MluI sites.	The apolipoprotein gene cluster on human chromosome 19 (APOC1, APOC2, APOE) has been localised by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis to within 200 kb of a chronic lymphocytic leukemia-associated translocation breakpoint. A restriction map covering 1300 kb around these loci has been constructed and contains two polymorphic MluI sites, which appear to show Mendelian inheritance. The orientation of the map on the chromosome has been established as 19cen - CLL breakpoint - APOC2 - 19qter. Pedigree analysis using APOC2, a probe derived from the CLL breakpoint, and other localised markers on 19q suggests that the myotonic dystrophy locus is distal to APOC2 on 19q.
Detection of an unbalanced translocation (4;14) in a mildly retarded father and son by flow cytometry.	A child with impaired intelligence, minor dysmorphisms, obesity and genital hypoplasia was found to have an apparently balanced translocation, 46,XY,t(4;14)(q12;q13), following cytogenetic analysis. The same rearrangement was also detected in the child's father, who had similar phenotypic abnormalities to his son. Detailed study of flow karyotypes produced from lymphoblastoid cell lines established that in both patients the translocation was in fact unbalanced with approximately 11 million base pairs of DNA (corresponding to about 6.0% of chromosome 4 or 11.0% of chromosome 14) being lost.
The Mos proto-oncogene maps near the centromere on mouse chromosome 4.	The Mos proto-oncogene, the cellular homolog of the transforming gene of Moloney murine sarcoma virus, was originally assigned to mouse chromosome 4 using independent panels of mouse/hamster somatic cell hybrids. By in situ hybridization to metaphase chromosomes and standard genetic backcrosses, we have confirmed this assignment and determined that Mos maps near the centromere in a region devoid of other markers. We have also identified a restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) that defines two alleles of the Mos locus in selected inbred strains of laboratory mice. Using the RFLP, we determined the strain distribution pattern for the Mos gene in three sets of recombinant inbred strains and in five strains congenic for histocompatibility antigen genes localized on chromosome 4. These results establish Mos as a useful marker in a poorly characterized region of the mouse genome. In addition, these results will facilitate the genetic analysis of the Mos locus.
Isolation of the facA (acetyl-coenzyme A synthetase) and acuE (malate synthase) genes of Aspergillus nidulans.	Acetate inducible genes of Aspergillus nidulans were cloned via differential hybridization to cDNA probes. Using transformation of mutant strains the genes were identified as facA (acetyl-Coenzyme A synthetase) and acuE (malate synthase). The levels of RNA encoded by these genes were shown to be acetate inducible and subject to carbon catabolite repression. Induction is abolished in a facB mutant and carbon catabolite repression is relieved in a creA mutant.
Spreading of inactivation in an (X;14) translocation.	In the KOP translocation, t(X;14)(q13;q32), virtually the entire long arm of the X has been translocated to the end of the long arm of chromosome 14. Meiotic secondary nondisjunction in a female balanced carrier of the translocation has led to a son with two der(14) or 14-X chromosomes. The normal X chromosome is late replicating in the mother. One of the two 14-X chromosomes is late replicating in the son, with heavy terminal labeling of all but the centromeric end of the chromosome. This suggests that genetic inactivation has spread from the Xq segment of the translocation chromosome to at least two thirds of the segment derived from chromosome 14, and that the remaining proximal segment of chromosome 14 is possibly still genetically active. These findings provide an explanation for the phenotype: Klinefelter syndrome plus a few mild malformations that are sometimes seen in this syndrome but are also seen in duplication of the proximal portion of chromosome 14. Although the proband has a duplication of virtually an entire chromosome 14, 14(pter leads to q32), the phenotypic effect of the autosomal duplication has been mostly nullified by the spread of inactivation.
A new translocation involving three chromosomes in chronic myelocytic leukemia, 46,XY,t(9;11;22).	Bone-marrow metaphases in a 63-year-old male with newly discovered chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) showed a complex translocation involving chromosomes 9, 11, and 22. About half of the short arm of chromosome 11 was translocated to the terminal part of the long arm of chromosome 9, and the missing fragment on chromosome 22 was translocated to the short arm of the abnormal chromosome 9. The clinical features were typical of CML, and the patient is in good physical condition 10 months after diagnosis on a regimen of busulfan.
A new complex Ph1 translocation involving three chromosomes.	A case of Ph1-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia associated with a complex translocation involving chromosomes No. 9, No. 17, and No. 22 was described. All cells in the marrow contained this complex karyotypic picture, and no cells with the usual type of Ph1 translocation were present. With banding analysis, the karyotypic picture consisted of 46,XX,t(9;22;17)(q34;q11;q21). The published cases of usual and complex Ph1 translocations were summarized in tabular form and some aspects of the translocations discussed.
A case of acute myeloblastic leukemia with Ph1 chromosome showing translocation 9q+;22q-.	Cytogenetic studies of the bone marrow and peripheral blood with the quinacrine fluorescence banding technique in a patient with the clinical diagnosis of acute myeloblastic leukemia revealed the Philadelphia chromosome due to a translocation between chromosomes 22 and 9. He had been exposed to the atomic bomb in Hiroshima, and some hours after the exposure he wandered into the hypocenter.
Familial translocation t(9;16).	We report a female with a deletion of 9p and concomitant duplication of 16q [46,XX,-9,+der(9),t(9;16)(p24;q13)]. Parental chromosome analysis showed a balanced maternal translocation [46,XX,t(9;16)(p24;q13)]. Three other cases of translocations involving chromosomes 9 and 16 have been reported, one of them with identical breakpoints. A review of published reports of deletion 9p and duplication 16q is presented, and a comparison is made with previously described cases.
The oncogene ETS1 is distant from the chromosome 11 breakpoint in leukaemic cells with the t(11;19)(q23;p13).	Field inversion gel electrophoresis of DNA from a leukemic clone characterized by the t(11;19)(q23;p13) allowed us to exclude any genomic rearrangement within more than 900 kb of DNA encompassing ETS1 on chromosome 11. Although ETS1 was moved to the derivative chromosome 19 as a result of the t(11;19), we conclude that this oncogene is not close to the chromosome 11 breakpoint and is unlikely to be involved in this leukaemia.
Incidence and prognostic significance of Auer rods in children with acute myeloid leukemia in the studies AML-BFM-78 and -83]	The prognostic significance of Auer rods in children with AML was investigated in 129 patients of the study AML-BFM-78 and 154 patients of the study AML-BFM-83. Auer rods were found in 68 patients (53%) in the study AML-BFM-78 and 69 patients (45%) in the study AML-BFM-83. The incidence was higher in the subtypes FAB M1 (61%) and M2 (75%) compared to the subtypes FAB M4 (44%) and M5 (5%). In both studies the remission rate was higher in Auer rod-positive patients. Moreover, in the study AML-BFM-83 patients with Auer rods had a significant longer remission duration: the probability of an event-free interval (EFI) of 5 years was 77% (SD 6%) in Auer rod-positive patients compared with 44% (SD 7%) in Auer rod-negative patients (p less than 0.01). In the study AML-BFM-78 no differences regarding remission duration between both groups were detected. Analysis of the individual FAB subtypes revealed a significant higher event-free survival rate (EFS) after 5 years in Auer rod-positive compared with 18% (SD 12%) in Auer rod-negative patients (p less than 0.0001). No prognostic significance of Auer rods in other subtypes could be detected. In the overall group of all patients absence of Auer rods was associated with the unfavourable parameters hyperleucocytosis (greater than or equal to 100 x 10(3)/microliters) and acute monocytic leukemia (FAB M5) (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.001, respectively). The multivariate analysis in the study AML-BFM-83 showed that Auer rods were of prognostic significance independent from the initial leukocyte count and the FAB type M5.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Molecular characterization of variant translocations in chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Five to ten percent of the Ph-positive cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), termed variant translocations, involve at least one chromosome in addition to 9 and 22 in the abnormality. The involvement of chromosome 9 band q34, where the c-abl oncogene has been localized, is not always cytogenetically detectable in so called variant translocations due to complex rearrangements. We present two cases having the most frequently involved chromosomes (#3 and #17) in such translocations. In one case, both chromosome 9's were cytogenetically normal while in the other, band 9q34 was so called 'masked' or 'hidden'. After molecular evaluation using in situ hybridization and Southern blotting techniques, the involvement of the altered bcr/abl gene was demonstrated and the cytogenetic analysis was revised. Utilization of molecular probes in the evaluation of such cases should become a routine diagnostic procedure in detecting the exchange of bcr and c-abl sequences.
Atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia with Philadelphia (Ph') chromosome and an additional translocation.	A case of chronic myelogenous leukemia in which the disease pursued an atypical course is described. The presence of a previously unreported translocation t(1;20), in addition to a Ph' chromosome t(9;22), is demonstrated, and its possible significance and relationship to the disease are discussed.
Chromosome abnormalities and clinical and morphologic manifestations of chronic myeloid leukemia.	Forty cases of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) were studied and subgroups of cases with similar chromosomal abnormalities in terminal stage were defined. Certain correlations were observed between the type of chromosomal changes, and clinical and morphologic manifestations of the disease: (1) It seems that, in cases without any karyotype changes other than translocation (9;22), the terminal stage is longer and milder than in cases with additional chromosomal abnormalities; (2) cases with marker i(17q) are clinically and morphologically rather uniform and are characterized by distinct signs of myeloid differentiation of blast cells, absent in other cases; (3) in cases with various atypical chromosomal abnormalities, the course of the terminal stage is the most rapid and grave. The blast cells differ from myeloblasts and resemble lymphoid elements.
Clonal evolution in atypical chronic granulocytic leukemia: a non-Philadelphia translocation.	Hemopoietic cells in chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL) frequently contain a chromosome translocation involving chromosome 22 and another autosome, usually number 9. The translocated chromosome 22 is known as the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. The appearance of a second Ph chromosome is the most common cytogenetic abnormality in CGL signaling the blastic phase. For 6 yr we serially studied a man with atypical CGL whose marrow cells were marked by a translocation from chromosome 18 to chromosome 11 [46XY,t(11;18)(q23;q12)]. Three months prior to blast transformation there appeared an extra copy of the marker chromosome 18: 47XY,t(11;18)(q23;q12),+(18p11 leads to 18q12). This man presents a new cytogenetic pattern of clonal evolution in CGL. The pattern is analogous to that of the Ph chromosome and is characterized by a balanced chromosomal rearrangement and the subsequent acquisition of an extra copy of the small translocation chromosome immediately prior to blast transformation.
A translocation (7;10)(q35;q21) in a differentiated papillary carcinoma of the thyroid.	A case of differentiated thyroid carcinoma is reported. Cell culture techniques and cytogenetic investigations are described. A t(7;10)(q35;q21) appears to be the sole chromosome abnormality.
A familial chromosomal translocation t(6q;7q) with habitual abortions.	A familial balanced translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 6 and 7 is described. The break points are localized to 6q27 and 7q23. No phenotypical abnormalities were found in any of the three carriers, but spontaneous abortions were frequent and might be associated with the translocation due to unbalanced segregation.
De novo Robertsonian D/D type translocations: the Leuven experience.	In this paper we report a de novo 13/14 Robertsonian type translocation with apparent loss of band 14q11 in a mentally retarded, blind 24-year-old male. The findings in 10 other patients with a de novo Robertsonian D/D type translocation diagnosed in this center are reviewed.
Trisomy 12 and translocation (7;9) in an ovarian immature teratoma.	We report a case of an immature malignant ovarian teratoma with peritoneal implants diagnosed in an 18-year-old woman. The tumor was brought into remission after surgery (three laparotomies) and adjuvant chemotherapy. A residual peritoneal implant showed a mature epithelial and glial configuration. Histologically, the neuroectodermal component was dominant in the original tumor as well as in the metastases, being confirmed by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. A stem cell line has been obtained with cell culture, having a germ cell character and a yolk sac configuration. This line possessed a trisomy 12 and a translocation (7;9) similar to other chromosomal abnormalities described in immature teratomas of the testes and ovaries.
Chromosome 22 abnormalities in Ewing's sarcoma.	A child with disseminated Ewing's sarcoma underwent cytogenetic investigations which showed different structural rearrangements of chromosome 22 at diagnosis (?ring22), and at relapse [t(10;22)], but the classic translocation t(11;22) was not detectable. This case provides further evidence of the importance of chromosome 22 in this disease, while raising some questions about the central importance of the translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22.
HeLa nuclear protein recognizing DNA termini and translocating on DNA forming a regular DNA-multimeric protein complex.	Employing an exonuclease III protection assay we detected a protein in crude HeLa nuclear extracts binding, with apparent sequence specificity, to molecular ends of adenovirus type 2 (Ad2) DNA. This protein, designated nuclear factor IV (NFIV), was purified to homogeneity and was shown to be a hetero-dimer of 72,000 and 84,000 Mr. Binding to terminal Ad2 sequences was strongly enhanced by the presence of either of the sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins nuclear factor I and nuclear factor III. These proteins appeared to function as blockades for translocation of NFIV on DNA, thus producing apparent sequence specificity. In the absence of such a blockade, NFIV moved freely, without energy input, on any double-stranded DNA forming a regular DNA-multimeric protein complex as shown by methidiumpropyl EDTA footprinting and electron microscopy. Binding is completely dependent upon the presence of molecular ends. Evidence was obtained for a two-step mechanism in which termini are recognized by NFIV and used as a starting point for subsequent translocation. The possible functions of the protein in adenovirus DNA replication and in cellular processes requiring DNA termini are discussed.
Triploid clone observed at blastic crisis in chronic myelogenous leukemia with complex Ph1 translocation (9; 22; 12)]	A 56-year-old female, who was diagnosed as CML in 1983 and had been well controlled with busulfan, was admitted to our hospital because of fever and iliac bone pain. Peripheral blood showed leukocytosis (WBC 70,000/microliters and bone marrow was normocellular with 53% leukemic cells, suggesting that she was in the blastic crisis. Chromosomal analysis of bone marrow cells at that time revealed t (9; 22; 12) and some additional abnormalities. The number of chromosomes ranged from 44 to 131 and the mode of chromosome number was 65. She was treated with combination regimen consisting of vincristine, 6-mercaptopurine and prednisolone and right iliac tumor was irradiated. Three months after admission, she died of DIC and pulmonary insufficiency due to leukemic infiltration.
Chromosomal abnormalities in couples with recurrent abortions.	Out of 126 couples seeking genetic advice for abortions, 95 couples have experienced 2 or more spontaneous abortions. Of these, chromosome banding studies were carried out in one or both partners (92 women and 85 men). Abnormal karyotypes were found in 2 males. Both abnormalities were balanced translocations: 46 XY t(5q+ 11q-) and 45 XY t(13/14). This represents an overall frequency of 1.1% which is comparable to the reported incidence in the literature.
Regulation of bcl-2 gene expression in lymphoid cell lines containing normal #18 or t(14;18) chromosomes.	The bcl-2 (B cell lymphoma/leukemia-2) gene at band 18q21 is involved in t(14;18) chromosomal translocations in most follicular lymphomas and occasional other human B cell malignancies, where it becomes juxtaposed to the transcriptionally active immunoglobulin (Ig) locus at 14q32. Regulation of bcl-2 gene expression was investigated in neoplastic lymphoid cell lines containing normal #18 chromosomes or a t(14;18) translocation with regard to steady-state mRNA levels, RNA stability, transcription rates, and DNA methylation. High steady-state levels of bcl-2 mRNA, and proportionally high rates of bcl-2 transcription (measured in isolated nuclei), were found in B cell lines containing t(14;18) translocations. The half-life of bcl-2 mRNA (approximately 2-3 hr) was similar in all cell lines examined, including a t(14;18)-containing follicular lymphoma cell line, which has a translocated and rearranged bcl-2 gene that produces bcl-2/Ig fusion transcripts. However, in the presence of cycloheximide (inhibitor of protein synthesis), the half-life of some of the bcl-2/Ig mRNAs produced by these cells was prolonged, indicating that in some circumstances mRNA stability may contribute to deregulated bcl-2 expression. Despite stabilizing some bcl-2 mRNAs, the overall effect of treating cell lines with cycloheximide was a reduction in the levels of accumulated bcl-2 mRNAs through inhibition of bcl-2 gene transcription. These latter data provide indirect evidence that short-lived transacting factor(s) regulate transcription of the human bcl-2 gene in lymphoid cells with or without a t(14;18) translocation. No clear correlation was discovered between bcl-2 gene methylation and transcription.
Confirmation of a balanced chromosomal translocation using molecular techniques.	Investigation of a couple, who had produced three babies with cri du chat syndrome, showed initially that the mother had an apparent deletion of chromosome 5. It seemed likely that she had a balanced chromosomal translocation but it proved impossible to detect the second chromosome involved using routine cytogenetic methods. Molecular techniques using quantitative hybridization dosage studies were performed and these showed that the mother had a double dose of DNA in the suspected deleted area of chromosome 5. Further studies, using in situ hybridization techniques, revealed that the missing segment of chromosome 5 had translocated onto the short arms of a C group chromosome and further analysis of prometaphase chromosomes showed the presence of a balanced translocation, 46,XY,t(5;9)(5qter----5p14.1::9p22----9pter;9 qter----9p22::5p14.1----5pter). As a result of these findings, it was possible to offer prenatal diagnosis to the patient in future pregnancies, by detecting the presence of a balanced or unbalanced translocation in the fetus using molecular and cytogenetic techniques.
Exceptional chromosomal mutations in a rodent population are not strongly underdominant.	The observation of karyotypic uniformity in most species has led to the widespread belief that selection limits chromosomal change. We report an unprecedented amount of chromosomal variation in a natural population of the South American marsh rat Holochilus brasiliensis. This variation consists of four distinct classes of chromosomal rearrangements: whole-arm translocations, pericentric inversions, variation in the amount of euchromatin, and variation in number and kind of supernumerary (B) chromosomes. Twenty-six karyotypes are present among 42 animals. Observations of the natural population over a 7-year period and breeding experiments with captive animals indicate that heterozygous individuals suffer no detectable reduction in fitness. This is at odds with a central assumption in current models of chromosomal speciation and provides a firm rejection of the view that selection necessarily restricts chromosomal change.
Cytogenetic results in 9 cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with a high grade of malignancy]	Cytogenetic studies were performed in nine patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; four were lymphoblastic lymphoma, three Burkitt's-type and two diffuse lymphomas with mixed small and large cell. All cases showed pseudodiploid or hyperdiploid mode and, moreover, four cases had metaphases with a normal karyotype. All patients showed clonal chromosomal abnormalities, except one (lymphoblastic T-lymphoma). The translocations t (8;14) (q24;q32) and t (8;22) (q24;q11) were the abnormalities found in Burkitt's lymphoma. The translocation t (14;18) (q32;q21) was found in one case, of lymphoblastic type. In the other tumours, the chromosomes involved in the different aberrations were: #1, #3, #7, #8, #9, #14 and #17. We attempted to correlate the cytogenetic findings with histology and prognosis.
Clinical, cytogenetic, and pedigree findings in 18 cases of Aicardi syndrome.	Eighteen girls with Aicardi syndrome were identified through a survey of neurologists, geneticists, and ophthalmologists. All had infantile seizures, developmental delay, agenesis of the corpus callosum (complete: 72%, partial: 28%), and characteristic chorioretinal lacunar lesions. Costovertebral defects including hemivertebrae, scoliosis, and absent or malformed ribs were present in 39%, cortical heterotopias were present in 50%, and microphthalmia was identified in a third. Cytogenetic investigation was carried out in all families. An unbalanced X;3 translocation, 46,X,der(X)t(X;3)(p22.3;p23)mat, was discovered in a girl with chorioretinal lacunar lesions characteristic of Aicardi syndrome, developmental delay, and infantile seizures. However, this child had a normal appearing corpus callosum on CT and magnetic resonance imaging scans and therefore did not meet the criteria for inclusion in the study. Chromosomes of all other patients and parents were normal. Findings at birth, age of seizure onset, treatment, and prognosis are discussed. The pedigree data from these 18 families demonstrated an unaffected male:female sib ratio of 1:1.7 and a 14% spontaneous abortion rate. The findings of this study support the contention that Aicardi syndrome is an X-linked dominant disorder with early embryonic lethality in hemizygous males and that all cases represent new mutations.
Sex vesicle "entrapment": translocation or nonhomologous recombination of misaligned Yp and Xp as alternative mechanisms for abnormal inheritance of the sex-determining region.	Abnormal inheritance of the sex determining region, normally located on Yp, results in about 1 in 20,000 phenotypic males with a 46,XX genotype. Studies to date indicate that many 46,XX males apparently arise due to a balanced, yet abnormal, nonhomologous interchange of Xp and Yp termini. However, 2 of the 5 XX males we report here have 3 copies of the pseudoautosomal locus, MIC2. Thus, they appear to have inherited the sex determining region as a result of Yp sequences being added onto the X pseudoautosomal region. Such an unequal, extremely nonhomologous interchange could alternatively be considered to arise from an unbalanced translocation of Yp to Xp. Our results suggest that very unequal interchange or translocation of Yp sequences onto the X pseudoautosomal region is not as rare a mechanism for XX males as originally thought. We also suggest that sex vesicle "entrapment" favors the association of a Yp fragment to the X pseudoautosomal region over a translocation to either Xq or an autosome.
Characterization of an X;X translocation by cytological analysis and in situ hybridization.	An X;X chromosomal translocation was ascertained by conventional cytogenetic analysis in a phenotypically normal woman with secondary amenorrhea. In situ hybridization was performed with previously mapped X-specific DNA sequences to study the rearrangement at the molecular level. The results allowed us to demonstrate that the subject is monosomic for the distal region of the short arm of the X and trisomic for the distal region of the long arm.
Molecular analysis of chromosome 1 abnormalities in neuroblastoma.	Tumor cells from 70% of neuroblastoma patients contain a deletion of part of the short arm of chromosome 1, indicating that this chromosomal region includes a gene involved in tumor formation. To more precisely evaluate the boundaries and mechanisms involved in generating these deletions, we have examined four neuroblastoma cell lines using a combination of somatic cell hybridization, isozyme analysis, and nucleic acid hybridization employing both standard and restriction fragment length polymorphic probes. The data suggest that the truncation of chromosome 1 in these neuroblastomas was most likely due to a complex translocation and deletion mechanism rather than a simple unbalanced translocation or terminal or interstitial deletion. This conclusion is supported by the frequent removal of MYCL from the altered chromosome 1 to another chromosome. Furthermore, the data suggest that the frequency of breakpoints previously assigned by karyotypic analysis to bands other than 1p32 in neuroblastomas may be overestimated. Finally, this study identified a breakpoint at 1p32 that was localized between the genes JUN and MYCL for one neuroblastoma thus establishing the order of these genes as centromere, JUN, MYCL, telomere. We conclude that the observed breakpoints within chromosome 1p in human neuroblastoma are not as variable as previously described and suggest the results of this study provide evidence for the involvement of specific DNA sequences within 1p32 in the generation of neuroblastoma.
An unusual translocation associated with recurrent spontaneous abortions.	The authors report a case of 11;17 translocation associated with recurrent spontaneous abortions, and request contact with colleagues who have observed similar cases.
Congenital hyperthyroidism with reciprocal translocation t(1;17)(q25;q21).	The authors report a case of 1;17 translocation and request contact with colleagues who have observed similar cases.
A bcr-v-abl oncogene induces lymphomas in transgenic mice.	In chronic myeloid leukemia and some cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a 9;22 chromosome translocation has fused most of the c-abl oncogene to a gene designated bcr. To explore in vivo the biological effects of the chimeric gene, we introduced a facsimile of the translocation product, a bcr-v-abl gene, into the mouse germ line under the control of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer or a retroviral long terminal repeat. Some transgenic mice bearing either construct developed clonal lymphoid tumors. T lymphomas predominated, but some pre-B lymphomas developed. The transgenes were expressed in the tumors but not detectably in the lymphoid tissues of nontumorous transgenic animals, implying that transcription is activated by a low-frequency somatic event. These results demonstrate that bcr-v-abl is tumorigenic in vivo and provide a new animal model for lymphomagenesis.
Lymphoma cell line (FL-18) and Epstein-Barr virus-carrying cell line (FL-18-EB) obtained from a patient with follicular lymphoma: monoclonal derivation and different properties.	A novel cell line, FL-18, was established from the pleural effusion of a patient with follicular small cleaved cell lymphoma. At the same time, an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen (EBNA)-positive cell line, FL-18-EB, was established from the EBV-infected culture of the same pleural effusion cells. Both cell lines had the same monoclonal surface immunoglobulin (IgG kappa), and they had the same karyotype as that of the fresh pleural effusion cells in which a reciprocal translocation between the long arm of chromosomes 14 and 18 [t(14;18)(q32;q21)] was detected. Gene rearrangement analysis of immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene (JH) and kappa light-chain gene (J kappa) showed the same rearranged configuration in the two cell lines; however, some morphological and phenotypic differences were found. The FL-18-EB cells, which were morphologically similar to common EBNA-positive lymphoblastoid cell lines of normal B cell origin at the initial phase of culture, were larger than the FL-18 cells and contained multinucleated giant cells. The FL-18 cells lacked cytoplasmic immunoglobulin and were positive for common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (CALLA), whereas the FL-18-EB cells had cytoplasmic immunoglobulin and were negative for CALLA. Thus, the phenotype of FL-18-EB seems to be a result of a shift by EBV infection to a more mature stage in the B cell differentiation pathway than that of FL-18. The paired availability of EBV-free and EBV-infected cell lines of a neoplastic clone is unique and valuable in considering EBV infectibility of neoplastic B cells and resultant phenotypic changes.
The localization of the human myeloperoxidase gene is in close proximity to the translocation breakpoint in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	The human myeloperoxidase (MPO) gene has recently been cloned in our laboratory. Southern blot hybridization of our MPO cDNA to DNA from a somatic cell hybrid clone panel revealed that the MPO cosegregated with human chromosome 17. In situ hybridization mapped the MPO gene to chromosome 17q22-24. Although this location is close to the translocation breakpoint which occurs in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), t(15;17)(q22;q21-22), Southern blot hybridization with different restriction-digested genomic DNA samples from four APL patients did not reveal MPO gene rearrangement. However, RNA dot-blot hybridization showed that APL patients with the translocation expressed high levels of MPO mRNA. This observation raises the possibility that the high levels of MPO gene expression in APL could be due to the arrest of leukemic cells at a specific stage of differentiation or a consequence of the translocation.
Molecular lesion in chronic granulocytic leukemia is highly conserved despite ethnic and geographical variation.	Leukemic cell DNA from patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic granulocytic leukemia in the United Kingdom, Taiwan, and South Africa and of diverse ethnic origins all have identifiable molecular rearrangements of the breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 22 band q11 when screened with an appropriate DNA probe. This result reinforces the highly conserved nature of the molecular lesion in chronic granulocytic leukemia and its suitability as a diagnostic marker for the disease. Since the assay can be performed by sample referral on relatively small numbers of nondividing frozen or dead cells, it is ideally suited for large scale epidemiological and clinical studies, particularly in developing countries where karyotyping services are not readily available.
Chromosome translocations and Epstein-Barr virus in Burkitt's lymphoma]	Burkitt's lymphoma is characterized by particular epidemiological features. It is a frequent childhood tumor in children in tropical Africa and occurs at a much lesser frequency all over the world. Chromosomal translocation affecting the long arm of chromosome 8 (band 8q24) and one of the chromosomes carrying the immunoglobulin loci (chromosomes 2, 14 or 22) are regularly observed in Burkitt's lymphoma, regardless of whether the tumor occurred in high or low incidence areas. The prevalence of Burkitt's lymphoma in Africa appears to be related to two factors: holo- or hyperendemic malaria and presence of Epstein-Barr virus genomes in the tumor cells. We present a model of pathogenesis, in which stimulation of B cells by malaria is the primary event in the development of the disease. The risk of the chromosomal translocation should be increased by increasing the number of new B cells generated per time. According to our model, the translocation leads to constitutive c-myc activation and makes the cells responsive to growth factors without inducing proliferation on its own. Infection of a translocation-carrying cell with EBV may provide an additional growth advantage and drive the cell further towards a fully malignant state.
Chromosomal changes in soft-tissue sarcomas. A new diagnostic parameter.	A cytogenetic study was performed on short-term cultures from fresh surgical specimens obtained from 41 patients with soft-tissue sarcomas of various histologic origins. The results demonstrated that myxoid liposarcomas (five tumors) were associated with a specific translocation between chromosomes 12 and 16 and that synovial sarcomas (six tumors) were associated with a specific translocation between the X chromosome and chromosome 18. These chromosomal data have been used to differentiate myxoid liposarcoma from other myxoid tumors exhibiting a non-characteristic histologic picture, as well as to ascertain the diagnosis of synovial sarcoma in undifferentiated soft-tissue sarcomas. The results to date indicate that identification of specific chromosomal changes in sarcomas may provide a new diagnostic criterion for these tumors and possibly improve prognostication with regard to survival and response to treatment.
Refinement of lymphoma cytogenetics by the chromosome 18q21 major breakpoint region.	A small (2.8-kilobase, kb) major breakpoint region localized to segment 18q21 rearranges in greater than 70% of t(14;18)(q32;q21) lymphomas. This rearrangement interrupts the Bcl-2 gene and introduces it into the Ig locus at 14q32. The rearrangement between the joining region (JH) of Ig on chromosome 14 and the 18q21 region creates a translocation-specific DNA rearrangement. We generated probes that distinguish the 14;18 juncture on the derivative (der) 14 and der (18) chromosomes, providing a molecular approach to t(14;18) identification. Approximately 60% of unselected follicular lymphomas, 20% of diffuse large cell lymphomas, and 50% of adult undifferentiated non-Burkitt lymphomas demonstrated 14;18 rearrangements within the major breakpoint region. Examination of DNA for 14;18 rearrangements resolved the identity of 14q+ chromosomes in two patient's cells that lacked an obvious reciprocal partner. Identification of the exact restriction fragments that mediate translocations complements routine cytogenetics. The detection of DNA rearrangements does not require dividing cells or the presence of an identifiable reciprocal partner and can detect clonal translocation rearrangements when the neoplastic cells are only a minority of all cells present.
Differences in B cell growth phenotype reflect novel patterns of Epstein-Barr virus latent gene expression in Burkitt's lymphoma cells.	Recently established Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell lines, carrying chromosomal translocations indicative of their malignant origin, have been monitored for their degree of in vitro progression towards a more 'lymphoblastoid' cell surface phenotype and growth pattern, and for their expression of three EBV latent gene products which are constitutively present in all virus-transformed normal lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). BL cell lines which stably retained the original tumour biopsy phenotype on serial passage were all positive for the nuclear antigen EBNA 1 but did not express detectable amounts of two other 'transforming' proteins, EBNA 2 and the latent membrane protein (LMP). This novel pattern of EBV gene expression was also observed on direct analysis of BL biopsy tissue. All three viral proteins became detectable, however, in BL cell lines which had progressed towards a more LCL-like phenotype in vitro. This work establishes a link between B cell phenotype and the accompanying pattern of EBV latent gene expression, and identifies a novel type of EBV:cell interaction which may be unique to BL cells.
Chromosomal translocation and inverted duplication associated with integrated hepatitis B virus in hepatocellular carcinomas.	Integrated hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA is found in hepatocellular carcinomas which develop in HBV carriers. Presented here are the results of analyses of four integrants that show chromosomal rearrangements associated with the integrated HBV DNA. Two clones (p4 and C15) were found to have large inverted repeating structures, each consisting of HBV genome along with flanking cellular sequences. The structure must have arisen by duplication of the primary integrant, including the flanking cellular DNA, followed by recombination within the viral DNA. One of the two viral arms in each clone joins to the other viral arm at the "cohesive end region." Two clones (DA2-2 and DA2-6) were found to have integrated HBV sequences, each flanked by cellular DNAs from different chromosomes (chromosome X joined to 17 and chromosome 5 joined to 9). They must be the products of cellular DNA translocations using the integrated HBV DNA as the switch point. The viral DNA in each clone is a continuous stretch of a single virus genome with one end in the cohesive end region. These complex structures seem to have been produced by activation of the cohesive end of an integrant viral genome, followed by its recombination with another chromosomal DNA.
A 230kb cosmid walk in the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene: detection of a conserved sequence and of a possible deletion prone region.	A 230 kb genomic region from the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene has been cloned in a cosmid walk, using an improved vector and by screening the same unamplified library for all steps. The region cloned surrounds the translocation breakpoint characterized by Worton et al and Ray et al, and overlaps by 70 kb the Pert region cloned by Monaco et al. We have identified a region of strong sequence conservation in mammals and chicken, and comparison of the homologous sequences in chicken and man has indicated the presence of two putative protein coding exons. Comparison with the sequence recently published by Koenig et al shows that only one is present in the Duchenne cDNA, and this raises the question of the functional significance of the other conserved sequence. Single copy probes and whole cosmids generated during this work have been used to analyse the corresponding region in Duchenne patients. Of five independant patients shown to be deleted for a probe 30 kb in 3' of the translocation breakpoint, three have the 5' endpoint of the deletion within a region of less than 20 kb, 100 kb away from the probe used to ascertain the deletion. This might suggest the presence of a region where deletions occur preferentially.
Association between a satellite DNA sequence and the Responder of Segregation Distorter in D. melanogaster.	A large array of satellite DNA sequences are always associated with the Responder (Rsp) element of Segregation Distorter in D. melanogaster. In the appropriate genetic backgrounds, Rsp causes aberrant chromatin condensation in spermiogenesis, leading to dysfunction of sperm carrying Rsp, and meiotic drive. The repeat array is deleted or translocated to the Y chromosome whenever Rsp is. Moreover, the translocation of part of Rsp to Y is associated with the translocation of an incomplete repeat array. The number of repeats among 35 independently derived chromosomes correlates nearly perfectly with sensitivity to distortion. We hypothesize that this satellite repeat array represents Responder itself. Finally, the molecular structure of this locus is extremely variable, indicating a very active process of change.
Rearrangement of the bcr gene in Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myeloid leukemia.	We studied the clinical, hematologic, cytogenetic, and molecular biologic features of seven patients with Philadelphia (Ph1) chromosome-negative chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). In five cases the hematologic findings were indistinguishable from those of patients with classical Ph1-positive disease. Myeloid cells were studied by chromosome-banding techniques. One patient had a masked Ph1 chromosome (with translocation t(4;9;22)), one had a deletion involving chromosome 16, and one had a small minority population of 22q- cells without 9q+ but otherwise normal metaphases; metaphases from the other four patients were entirely normal. DNA prepared from the myeloid cells was digested with the restriction enzymes EcoRI, HindIII, BamHI and BglII. Southern analysis using a 0.6-kb fragment of the breakpoint cluster region (bcr) gene showed the presence in each patient's DNA of a germline fragment together with a rearranged fragment or fragments with at least one of the restriction enzymes. We conclude that genomic changes in the bcr gene characteristic of CML can be present in the absence of a Ph1 chromosome.
Cloning and structural analysis of cDNAs for bcl-2 and a hybrid bcl-2/immunoglobulin transcript resulting from the t(14;18) translocation.	cDNAs for the bcl-2 mRNA were cloned from a human common acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line. Nucleotide sequence analyses showed that the 6 kb bcl-2 mRNA potentially encodes a 26 kd protein that is homologous to a predicted Epstein-Barr virus protein. Most t(14;18) translocation breakpoints cluster within a narrow region of a 5.4 kb exon that contains a long 3'-untranslated region of the bcl-2 mRNA. As a result of t(14;18) translocation, hybrid bcl-2/immunoglobulin heavy chain transcripts are produced that consist of the 5' half of the bcl-2 mRNA fused to a "decapitated" immunoglobulin heavy chain mRNA. Nucleotide sequence analyses confirmed that the hybrid transcripts continue to encode a normal bcl-2 protein. Our results suggest that t(14;18) translocations alter expression of the bcl-2 gene both by transcriptional activation and by abnormal posttranscriptional regulation of bcl-2 mRNA.
An abnormal terminal X-Y interchange accounts for most but not all cases of human XX maleness.	To determine if human XX maleness results from an abnormal chromosomal X-Y interchange, we studied the inheritance of the paternal pseudoautosomal region in nine patients. Those six patients in whom Y-specific DNA was found (Y(+)) inherited the entire pseudoautosomal region from the paternal Y chromosome and lost that of the paternal X chromosome. Moreover, in three Y(+) cases, we observed the deletion of a paternal Xp locus tightly linked to the pseudoautosomal region. These results definitively show that an abnormal and terminal X-Y interchange during paternal meiosis causes Y(+)XX maleness. In contrast, no abnormal X-Y interchange was observed in any of the three Y(-) cases analyzed, suggesting that maleness can occur in the absence of any Y-specific DNA.
Assignment of human tryptophan hydroxylase locus to chromosome 11: gene duplication and translocation in evolution of aromatic amino acid hydroxylases.	A cDNA clone for rabbit tryptophan hydroxylase was used as a probe to identify human tryptophan hydroxylase gene fragments in a panel of hamster-human somatic cell hybrids and determine its chromosomal location in man. A single locus was identified for tryptophan hydroxylase on chromosome 11. Tryptophan hydroxylase is a member of the superfamily of pterin-dependent aromatic amino acid hydroxylases which includes tyrosine hydroxylase, located at 11p15.5-p15, and phenylalanine hydroxylase, located at 12q22-q24.1 in human. The locations of these genes and the evolutionary distance between their sequences suggest that at least three distinct genetic events have occurred during the evolution of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylase superfamily: two sequential gene duplications giving rise to the three distinct hydroxylase loci, and a translocation which separated the tryptophan and tyrosine hydroxylase loci on chromosome 11 from the phenylalanine hydroxylase locus on chromosome 12.
Correlation of chromosome abnormalities with histologic and immunologic characteristics in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and adult T cell leukemia-lymphoma. Fifth International Workshop on Chromosomes in Leukemia-Lymphoma.	To correlate cytogenetic findings with histology and immunophenotype, 260 newly diagnosed patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 31 with adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) were studied at the Fifth International Workshop on Chromosomes in Leukemia-Lymphoma. Clonal chromosome abnormalities were found in 85% of cases of NHL and in all cases of ATL. The most significant associations of histology with cytogenetics involved the 8q24 and 14;18 translocations. Of 23 NHL patients with an 8q24 translocation, 20 (87%) had small noncleaved cell (SNC) lymphoma. Of 57 NHL patients with a t(14;18)(q32;q21), 37 (65%) had a follicular lymphoma, and at least 13 others (23%) had a diffuse lymphoma of follicular center cell origin. Five others including two who also had an 8q24 translocation had SNC lymphoma; tumors in these patients lacked the monomorphic features seen in those with only an 8q24 translocation. The most striking associations of immunology with cytogenetics involved rearrangements of 14q11-13, abnormalities of 1p, trisomy 3, and trisomy 12. Abnormalities of 14q11-13 were correlated with T cell disease. Among 138 NHL and 24 ATL cases that lacked involvement of 8q24, t(14;18), or rearrangements of 14q11-13, abnormalities of 1p and trisomy 3 were significantly associated with the T cell phenotype (P less than .01) and trisomy 12 with the B cell phenotype (P less than .01). No karyotype difference was found between Japanese ATL and non-Japanese T cell lymphomas except that +3 occurred more often in the former (P = .06). Although the 8q24 translocations in 23 patients were distributed relatively equally among geographic regions (United States, ten; Europe, ten; Japan, three), the t(14;18) in 57 patients was much less frequently seen in Japan than in the other parts of the world (United States, 31; Europe, 21; Australia, four; Japan, one). Thirty-nine chromosome bands had breaks in five or more cases; a number of protooncogenes and genes related to lymphocyte function located in these bands are likely to be involved in the development of lymphoma. Thus, besides confirming the close association of particular chromosome abnormalities with histology, we have identified a number of new associations that merit molecular analysis.
Specific abnormalities of chromosome 14 in patients with acute type of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma.	Chromosome analysis was performed on 1 patient with diffuse lymphoma of mixed type by histologic diagnosis and on 7 patients with the acute type of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL). Specific abnormalities in chromosome 14 at break band q11 with the assigned locus of the alpha-chain gene of the T-cell antigen receptor were identified in 6 of 8 patients. Inv(14) (q11q32) was found in 2 patients and translocation of chromosome 14 at break band q11 was observed in 4. Donor chromosomes involved in translocation of the 14q11 varied, i.e., chromosomes 3, 7 or X, with the exception of one patient whose donor chromosome origin could not be determined. The breakpoint in chromosome 3 was in band p25, a region reported to include the locus of the c-raf-I oncogene. In chromosome 7, it was in band p11, a region reported to include the locus of the c-erb-B oncogene, and in the sex chromosome X, it was in band q11. One patient also had a chromosome 14 aberration at break band q32. Of the 2 remaining patients, one had lost chromosome 14 and the other had an isochromosome 14q. Our observation and other reported findings suggest that the rearrangement of chromosome 14 at break band q11 is specific for lymphoma-type or acute-type ATL patients, and aberrations of proto-oncogene expression or the coding sequence by recombination involving a T-cell antigen receptor gene due to chromosome inversion or chromosome translocation may play an important role in T-cell neoplasia including ATL.
Allelic variation of the c-raf-1 oncogene in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Polymorphic variation of the c-raf-1 proto-oncogene is reported here for the first time. In a study of 21 individuals, including 17 with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and three healthy controls, we have identified three c-raf-1 alleles. One variant allele was observed in both a mother and her son, both of whom had lymphoma, but in no other case. The other variant allele was observed in two patients with lymphoma and in a healthy control.
Seven polymorphic loci mapping to human chromosomal region 11q22-qter.	Seven polymorphic loci that map to human chromosomal region 11q22-qter are revealed by DNA probes isolated from a chromosome-specific phage library constructed from a human X mouse somatic cell hybrid that has retained an 11q;16q translocation as the only human DNA. Three probes, each of which reveals a two-allele polymorphism, and four probes, each of which detects two linked RFLPs, have been characterized. Using a somatic cell hybrid mapping panel that divides 11q into four discrete sections, the seven clones have been localized to specific chromosomal regions. Localization of one of the clones has been confirmed and refined by in situ hybridization.
Genetic basis for a mouse model of Down syndrome.	The Trisomy 16 (Ts16) mouse has been proposed as a model for Down Syndrome (DS) in humans, based on genetic homology between mouse chromosome 16 (MMU 16) and human chromosome 21 (HSA 21). Translocations of HSA 21 resulting in trisomy for only a portion of the genetic information contained on this chromosome can result in a DS phenotype. Thus, these translocations help to define a "DS region" of the chromosome. A number of genes from this DS region of HSA 21 have been mapped to MMU 16. Techniques for localizing genes on chromosomes have been used to identify the portion of MMU 16 which corresponds to the DS region of HSA 21. This region appears to be highly conserved between mouse and human, providing further support for a mouse model of DS.
Structural rearrangements in the parents of children with primary trisomy 21.	A retrospective cytogenetic study was carried out on the parents of children with regular trisomy 21 Down's syndrome. In a total of 128 parents referred routinely to our laboratory after the birth of their affected child, three structural abnormalities, a reciprocal translocation and two pericentric inversions not involving chromosome 21, were detected. This is about 10 times the frequency expected based on current figures from consecutive newborn studies. In addition, the brother of one of nine older people with trisomy 21 referred for cytogenetic analysis for the first time was found to have a reciprocal translocation. This supports the contention made by others that an interchromosomal effect does exist in man. It is suggested that centres who routinely analyse the parents of their trisomy 21 referrals in an unbiased fashion should review their records. They will almost certainly contain useful information regarding the possible existence of this phenomenon and may even contain clues as to its nature. In addition to its undoubted scientific value, such data should prove useful in the genetic counselling of carriers of structural rearrangements.
Robertsonian translocation t dic (14p;22p) with regular trisomy 21: a possible interchromosomal effect?	Robertsonian translocations occur in about 2.5% of Down syndrome. We report here a Down syndrome with karyotype, 46,XX,-14,-22,+der t dic(14p;22p)pat, +21. Proband's father, two sisters, and a brother are phenotypically normal, heterozygous carriers for dicentric t(14;22). This is the only case of a translocation t(14;22) with regular trisomy 21 in our series of 600 Down syndrome cases investigated. The prevalence of balanced Robertsonian translocations in parents of Down syndrome might be higher if all the parents of trisomy 21 individuals were routinely investigated. The case is of interest in understanding the possibility of interchromosomal effect in the etiology of non-disjunction in Down syndrome.
Acute leukemia associated with trisomy 8 mosaicism and a familial translocation 46,XY,t(7;20)(p13;p12).	A patient is shown to have acute granulocytic leukemia, bone marrow mosaicism, and cutaneous fibroblast mosaicism for trisomy 8, an inherited reciprocal translocation involving the short arms of chromosomes 7 and 20, and a family history of cancer. A normal sister who had the same balanced chromosome translocation was evaluated for a preleukemic state; the results were unremarkable. The inherited translocation and postzygotically derived trisomy 8 are thought to represent additive factors contributing to the development of leukemia in the patient.
The avian and mammalian ets genes: molecular characterization, chromosome mapping, and implication in human leukemia.	The mammalian homologs of the ets-region from the transforming gene of avian erythroblastosis virus, E26, consist of two distinct domains located on different chromosomes. Using somatic cell hybrid panels, the mammalian homologs of the 5' v-ets-domain, ets-1, were mapped to chromosome 11 in man, to chromosome 9 in mouse, and to chromosome D1 in cat. The mammalian homologs of the 3'v-ets domain, ets-2, were similarly mapped to human chromosome 21, to mouse chromosome 16, and to feline chromosome C2. We conclude that the ets sequence shared by the virus, chicken, and man is likely to contain at least two functionally dissociable domains, identifiable as ets-1 and ets-2. The human ets- locus is transcriptionally active and encodes a single mRNA of 6.8 kb, while the second locus, human ets-2 encodes three mRNAs of 4.7, 3.2 and 2.7 kb. By contrast, the chicken homolog, having a contiguous ets-1 and ets-2 sequence, is primarily expressed in normal chicken cells as a single 7.5 kb mRNA. Because chromosome translocations have been associated with different human hematopoietic malignancies, we have used our human probes to study specific translocations occurring in acute leukemias. The human ets- gene was found to translocate from chromosome 11 to 4 in t(4;11) (q21;23) and the human ets-2 gene was found to translocate from chromosome 21 to 8 in t(8;21) (q22;q22). Significantly, both translocations were associated with an expression of ets genes which differed from that found in normal diploid lymphoid cells.
Burkitt-like lymphoma in an English child: characterisation of tumour biopsy cells and of the derived tumour cell line.	An eight year old English boy presented with an abdominal undifferentiated 'Burkitt-like' lymphoma. Lymphoma cells from ascitic fluid were cultured on a human embryo fibroblast feeder layer and, after a short lag period, a cell line (DH-BL) was established which, like the original tumour, was both negative for the Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen (EBNA) and expressed a monoclonal pattern of surface immunoglobulin (alpha lambda). DH-BL also possessed the Burkitt-related 8:14 chromosome translocation in all metaphases analysed; no other chromosomal abnormalities were present. The cell surface phenotype of the original biopsy cells and the cultured tumour cells in early passage were investigated using a panel of monoclonal antibodies to B lineage-associated antigens. These antibodies had recently been used to characterise African 'endemic' Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) biopsy cells and their derived cell lines. The cell surface phenotype of this English EBNA negative Burkitt-like lymphoma biopsy was indistinguishable from that previously shown by biopsies of EBNA positive endemic BLs. It therefore appears that both the endemic and sporadic forms of BL, as illustrated by this case, may be derived from the same subset of progenitor cells.
Multiple chromosomal rearrangements in a spontaneously arising t(6;7) rat immunocytoma juxtapose c-myc and immunoglobulin heavy chain sequences.	Spontaneously arising immunocytomas in Lou/Wsl rats contain a consistent translocation between chromosomes 6 and 7. The c-myc gene has been localized to chromosome 7 and has been shown to be rearranged in the majority of the rat immunocytomas. We now report the cloning of the rearranged 11-kilobase EcoRI c-myc fragment from the IgE-secreting IR75 tumor. Sequence analysis revealed that the cytogenetically visible t(6;7) translocation must have involved several events in this tumor. One event has led to the juxtaposition of c-myc and the switch mu region, in a head-to-head orientation. The breakpoint is approximately 850 base pairs upstream from the proximal c-myc promoter on chromosome 7. This area is distinct from the more common mouse plasmacytoma- and Burkitt lymphoma-associated translocation breakpoints and also differs from the known murine retroviral insertion sites. A second rearrangement has led to the transposition of sequences upstream from the switch gamma 1 region to the c-myc-distant end of the switch mu region, tail-to-tail. This requires at least two events, including one inversion. In addition to showing that identical loci (c-myc, immunoglobulin) are juxtaposed via chromosomal translocations in three different tumors (Burkitt lymphoma, mouse plasmacytoma, and rat immunocytoma) in different species (human, mouse, and rat), the multiple rearrangements in IR75 and some other tumors emphasize the selective value of c-myc activation by an immunoglobulin locus in the tumorigenic process.
MYC oncogene involved in a t(8;22) chromosome translocation is not altered in its putative regulatory regions.	We have cloned the translocation-associated MYC gene from the Burkitt lymphoma cell line (BL2) with a t(8;22) chromosomal translocation and have determined the nucleotide sequence of the first exon and of the 3' and 5' flanking regions, where sequences with putative regulatory functions have been identified. The nucleotide sequence of the 5' flanking region, which contains regions of DNase hypersensitivity and binding sites for putative regulatory proteins, is the same as that of the normal MYC. Accordingly, mutations in these regulatory regions are not required for the transcriptional deregulation of MYC in the BL2 cell line. The nucleotide sequence of the first exon is similar to that of the normal MYC [Gazin, C., Dupont de Direchin, S., Hampe, A., Masson, J. M., Martin, P., Stehelin, D. & Galibert, F. (1984) EMBO J. 3, 383-387] and has the coding capacity for a 188-residue polypeptide. However, six nucleotide changes that occur in the middle of this reading frame could result in amino acid substitutions. We also have cloned and sequenced the t(8;22) chromosomal breakpoint that is located 10 kilobases 3' of the MYC exon 3 and near the C lambda 3 gene on chromosome 22. Sequences with homology to immunoglobulin joining signals occur close to the breakpoint both on chromosome 8 and 22, providing further evidence that the immunoglobulin joining enzymes may be involved in the recombinations associated with a variety of chromosomal translocations in B and T cells.
Translocation (3;8;8)(p22 or p23;p23;q12) in a case of pleomorphic adenoma: similarity to a primary cytogenetic abnormality detected in an endometrial adenocarcinoma.	Cytogenetic findings on the recurrence of a pleomorphic adenoma of the parotid gland are herein reported. The tumor showed an abnormal chromosome #8, which was very similar to a marker chromosome recently described as the sole abnormality in an endometrial adenocarcinoma.
Analysis of c-myc expression in a human hepatoma cell line.	A tumorigenic human hepatoma cell line, Hep G2, has been shown to have high steady-state levels of c-myc transcripts compared to normal human liver. We have now characterized c-myc expression in Hep G2 cells with regard to message stability, gene rearrangements, gene amplification, chromosomal translocations, promoter utilization, and the effects of protein synthesis inhibitors. We have determined that the half-life of the Hep G2 c-myc transcript is approximately 20 min and conclude that the high steady-state level of c-myc mRNA is not the result of a specific stabilization of the c-myc message but probably results from increased c-myc gene transcription. c-myc expression in Hep G2 cells appears to be constitutive, since it remains constant in different cell growth states (log phase versus nondividing cells). The high constitutive expression of the c-myc gene in Hep G2 cells could not be explained by gene amplification, gene rearrangements, or chromosomal translocations. However, based on an S1 nuclease protection assay, the P1/P2 promoter utilization ratio is approximately 1/1 which differs from the 1/5 P1/P2 ratio observed in normal human liver. Treatment with cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, does not superinduce Hep G2 c-myc transcription based on transcription "run on" and RNA slot blot analysis. However, cycloheximide treatment does exert a posttranscriptional effect involving the specific stabilization of the c-myc message.
c-yes and bcl-2 genes located on 18q21.3 in a follicular lymphoma cell line carrying a t(14;18) chromosomal translocation.	The c-yes-1 and bcl-2 genes have been independently mapped at the same position of the chromosome band, 18q21.3, which is a breakpoint in the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation. High-molecular-weight genomic DNAs and mRNA isolated from a follicular lymphoma cell line FL-18 and an Epstein-Barr virus harboring FL-18EB cell line, which carried the t(14;18), were analyzed. Although there was no detectable c-yes rearrangement, the chromosome 18-specific probe b (bcl-2) revealed one rearranged fragment after EcoRI, BamHI, PstI and SstI digestion. Therefore, breakage of chromosome 18 in the t(14;18) occurred at the SstI fragment containing the probe b sequence on the bcl-2 gene. The transcript of c-yes was undetectable, whereas active transcription of bcl-2 was observed in the FL-18 and FL-18EB cell lines at a higher level than in other types of lymphoma cell line. These data suggest that the c-yes-1 is not involved in the t(14;18), and the 2 genes located at 18q21.3 are independent sequences.
Clustered somatic mutations in and around first exon of non-rearranged c-myc in Burkitt lymphoma with t(8;22) translocation.	We have examined the restriction map of the c-myc gene in 15 BL cell lines carrying the variant t(8;22) translocation in which c-myc is known to remain on chromosome 8. Using 3 restriction enzymes cutting outside the c-myc domain (EcoRI, BamHI, HindIII), we found no evidence for a c-myc/Ig lambda rearrangement in 14 BL cell lines. In the last one, BL 37, the 3' flanking region was rearranged corresponding to the already identified breakpoint located 400 pb downstream from the c-myc gene (9). Using 4 restriction enzymes cutting inside the c-myc gene (PvuII, PstI, SacI, HincII) we looked for discrete abnormalities within the gene limits, and we found in 9 BL cell lines several abolished and created sites, compatible with multiple independent somatic mutations. They are significantly clustered in the 5' non coding region, with a striking prevalence at the end of exon 1. The role of mutations in the non-coding first exon region for the deregulation of c-myc expression is discussed.
Human tissue-type plasminogen activator gene located near chromosomal breakpoint in myeloproliferative disorder.	Plasminogen activators (PA) convert the inactive proenzyme plasminogen into plasmin, which is involved in the process of fibrinolysis, tissue remodeling, and cell migration. There are two distinct forms of PA: urokinase (u-PA) and tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA). t-PA has higher affinity for fibrin and is the main form involved in thrombolysis. By in situ chromosomal hybridization and Southern blot analysis of somatic cell hybrid DNA, we have assigned the human t-PA gene to chromosome 8, bands 8p12----q11.2. We have detected a common EcoRI restriction fragment length polymorphism within the t-PA gene that thus provides a precisely localized highly informative marker for genetic linkage studies. The t-PA gene localization coincides with a translocation breakpoint observed in myeloproliferative disorders. Whereas leukemic cells usually secrete both types of PA, a correlation exists between acute myeloid leukemic cells that release only t-PA and failure to respond to chemotherapy.
Rearrangement of the c-myc gene in two giant cell carcinomas of the lung.	The c-myc oncogene was found to be rearranged in a human cell line of giant cell carcinoma of the lung (C-Lu65) and in a human primary giant cell carcinoma of the lung (LuC38C). The rearrangements in C-Lu65 and LuC38C were in regions about 7.5 kb and 6 kb, respectively, upstream from the transcription initiation site. No rearrangement of the c-myc gene was observed in a non-cancerous portion (LuC38N) of the lung of the patient who carried LuC38C. These results suggest that rearrangement of the c-myc gene may play some role in tumorigenesis of giant cell carcinoma of the lung.
Incidence of the 1/29 Robertsonian translocation in the cattle population in Czechoslovakia]	We studied the inheritance of a serious chromosomal aberration--Robertsonian translocation 1/29 (R.t.1/29) in the female and male progeny of three successive generations after five heterozygous sires, carriers of this chromosomal aberration. Of the total number of 43 progenies that were examined cytogenetically, we found in ten sons of the second successive generation R.t.1/29 in 50% and in 26 daughters in 53%. In the third successive generation we found out this chromosomal aberration in one of two bullocks and in none of five heifers. In all cases we recorded the diploid chromosome number 59,XYt or 59,XXt in heterozygous constitution, in 100% of all examined mitoses. The translocation is of a monocentric type. The results including the data on the fertility of sires do not, however, demonstrate explicitly the reduced fertility of sires with this aberration, or of their progeny, as mentioned by some researchers.
cDNA sequence for human bcr, the gene that translocates to the abl oncogene in chronic myeloid leukaemia.	The hallmark of human chronic myeloid leukaemia is a 9;22 chromosome translocation that fuses most of the c-abl oncogene to the 5' portion of the breakpoint cluster region (bcr) gene, such that a hybrid bcr-abl mRNA and polypeptide are generated. To clarify further the nature of this translocation, we have analysed the structure of normal human bcr mRNA by isolating large cDNA clones that collectively span the entire coding region and extend 2.6 kb upstream of those previously described. The 3150-bp nucleotide sequence reported here includes 534 bp of a GC-rich 5' non-coding segment and indicates, in conjunction with published sequences, that the bcr polypeptide comprises 1271 amino acid residues. The predicted polypeptide is unrelated to serine or tyrosine kinases, or indeed to any previously published sequence; its structure provides no evidence of a transmembrane region. Since probes from throughout the 4.8-kb cloned region hybridized to both the 4.5 and 6.7 kb normal bcr transcripts, both RNAs contain most or all of that region.
Comparative study of the clastogenic efficiency of ethyl methanesulfonate and diethyl sulfate in Drosophila melanogaster mature sperm.	Chromosome loss and translocation tests were carried out in Drosophila melanogaster sperm, stored in untreated females for up to 24 days, to compare the clastogenicity of ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) and diethyl sulfate (DES). The sex-linked recessive lethal test was used as a "biological dosimeter" and the following results were obtained: The yield of 2-3 translocations induced by both mutagens increased steadily with storage, being significantly higher after EMS than after DES treatment. The frequencies of partial losses induced by EMS and DES were similar and increased with storage. With up to 11 days' storage, the frequency of complete loss induced by DES was higher than that induced by EMS and remained unchanged when storage was extended to 24 days. Complete loss induced by EMS increased significantly with further storage (12-24 days). With DES, complete (but not partial) loss was detected with a dose at which EMS failed to modify the control values. These data suggest that the lower recovery of II-III translocations after treatment with DES does not result from a low breaking capacity but from a diminished or delayed rejoining of the induced breaks. This could be due to a physiological impairment of the treated cells by the high toxicity of DES or to an actual lower rejoinability of the broken ends. The differential recovery of complete and partial losses after DES treatment further suggests that the mechanisms leading to the fixation of both types of damage are somehow different, and that processes intervening in the recovery of partial losses are less affected, or not at all, by the proposed reduced rejoining of chromosome breaks.
The t(8;14) chromosome translocation of the Burkitt lymphoma cell line Daudi occurred during immunoglobulin gene rearrangement and involved the heavy chain diversity region.	Recent molecular analyses of Burkitt lymphomas carrying the t(8;14) chromosome translocation have indicated that a dichotomy exists regarding the molecular mechanisms by which the translocations occur. Most sporadic Burkitt tumors carry translocations that apparently arise due to mistakes in the immunoglobulin isotype-switching process. In contrast, there is evidence that the translocations of most endemic Burkitt lymphomas occur as a consequence of aberrant V-D-J recombination of variable, diversity, and joining gene segments, catalyzed by the recombinase enzymes. This phenomenon was first noted in follicular lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemias of the B-cell lineage and has been described in T-cell malignancies as well. In each of these cases, analysis of the nucleotide sequence at chromosome breakpoints demonstrated the involvement of immunoglobulin heavy chain JH or T-cell-receptor alpha-chain J alpha gene segments in the translocation. We now have cloned and sequenced both the 8q- and 14q+ translocation breakpoints deriving from the t(8;14) translocation of the endemic Burkitt lymphoma line Daudi. Our data show that the translocation resulted from a reciprocal exchange between the DH region on chromosome 14 and sequences far 5' of the MYC protooncogene on chromosome 8. Features of the nucleotide sequences surrounding the breakpoint further implicate the V-D-J joining machinery in the genesis of chromosome translocations in endemic Burkitt lymphomas and, more generally, in other lymphoid malignancies as well.
Acute monoblastic leukemia with a single chromosomal rearrangement involving breakpoints on chromosomes 8 and 16, 46, XX, t(8;16)(p11;p13).	We report a case of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (M5) with a rare cytogenetic abnormality involving chromosomes 8 and 16, t(8;16)(p11;p13). The leukemic blasts were determined to be monocytic by cytochemical and immunochemical studies. Morphological changes of the leukemic cells in response to phorbol myristate acetate further supported their identification as monocytic in nature. This chromosomal abnormality has apparently been reported only thrice in the literature. Translocation (8;16)(p11;p13), though rare, may be of primary importance in the process of leukemogenesis in some cases of histiocytic/monocytic malignancies.
Human T-cell tumours containing chromosome 14 inversion or translocation with breakpoints proximal to immunoglobulin joining regions at 14q32.	T-cell tumours are frequently found to carry an inversion of chromosome 14 (inv(14)) (q11;q32) or more rarely a chromosome 14 translocation t(14;14) with the same cytogenetic breakpoints (q11;q32). We have examined the molecular junctions of an inv(14) and a translocation t(14;14) using T-cell receptor (TCR) alpha joining (J) region probes. Both of these chromosomal abnormalities have breakpoints within the TCR J alpha locus at 14q11 and both have breakpoints which are proximal (i.e. on the centromeric side) to the immunoglobulin heavy chain JH region at 14q32. The cloned segments corresponding to the junctions at 14q32 are not associated with obvious immunoglobulin-like sequences. This contrasts to the previously described inv(14) in the cell line SUP-T1 and places a potential cluster of chromosome 14 breakpoints downstream of the Ig JH locus. The possible role of the varying breakpoints in the development of these tumours is discussed.
Characterization of the blast cells in acute leukemia with translocation (4;11): report of eight additional cases and of one case with a variant translocation.	Eight new cases (five adults and three children) of acute leukemia characterized by the presence in bone marrow cells of a t(4;11)(q21;q23)and one similar case, a child, with a t(1;11)(p32;q23) are reported. All patients were diagnosed as having acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with high-risk features. Immunologically the blast cells of the nine cases showed a strikingly consistent immature lymphoid phenotype, i.e., TdT+, HLA-DR+, B4(CD19)+, CALLA(CD10)-, Smlg-, cmu-, BA-2(CD9)+ corresponding to a "null ALL." In addition, six of nine cases expressed the myeloid marker VIM-D5(CD15). By double immunofluorescence staining it was determined that the VIM-D5(CD15) antigen was expressed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-positive blast cells, excluding the possibility of double leukemia. In five cases investigation of the Ig heavy chain genes by Southern blot analysis showed clonal rearrangement of both Ig heavy chain gene alleles. These data suggest that the blast cells involved in t(4;11) leukemia represent early B-cell progenitors with "aberrant" expression of myelomonocytic features, possibly related to the 11q23 breakpoint.
Thermostable DNA polymerase chain amplification of t(14;18) chromosome breakpoints and detection of minimal residual disease.	Achieving the capacity to detect minimal numbers of neoplastic cells is a major cancer diagnostic challenge. Chromosomal translocations such as the t(14;18)(q32;q21) found in follicular and some nonfollicular lymphomas provide a tumor-specific molecular marker. The 14;18 breakpoints are focused at one of six immunoglobulin heavy chain joining (JH) regions on chromosome 14 and a small major breakpoint region (MBR) of the BCL2 gene on chromosome 18. We utilized universal oligonucleotide primers of a region 5' to the BCL2 MBR and at the 3' end of JH segments to initiate a DNA polymerase chain reaction that amplified these BCL2-JH junctures. Use of thermostable DNA polymerase enabled annealing and synthesis steps at temperatures approaching the melting point of the primers, providing a sensitive and specific assay capable of detecting 1 lymphoma cell in 10(6) normal cells. This technique identified the subclinical presence of leukemic cells in all seven patients examined, including two in clinical remission. It also assessed the effectiveness of protocols designed to purge malignant cells from marrow. Moreover, this approach enabled the rapid DNA sequencing of chromosomal breakpoints without their molecular cloning. This assay markedly refines the capacity to detect minimal residual disease and should improve the ability to determine the stage of disease, stratify treatment, and evaluate therapy.
Is the three-site model for the ribosomal elongation cycle sound?	The release of deacylated tRNA from the ribosome as a result of translocation has been studied. Translating ribosomes prepared with poly(U)-S-S-Sepharose columns have been used. It has been shown that deacylated tRNA released from the ribosomal P site as a result of translocation rebinds with the vacated A site. Consistent with the known properties of the A site of the ribosome, this interaction is reversible, Mg2+-dependent, codon-specific and is inhibited by the antibiotic tetracycline. It has been concluded that the proposed three-site model of the ribosomal elongation cycle (Rheinberger and Nierhaus (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80, 4213-4217) is not sound: the experimentally observed 'retention' of the deacylated tRNA on the ribosome after translocation can be explained by a codon-dependent rebinding to the A site, rather than by its transition to the 'E site', i.e., in terms of the classical two-site model.
Report of a trisomy 8p infant with carrier father.	This report describes an infant with fatal congenital heart disease, cleft palate, brain malformations, and trisomy 8p resultant from the paternal balanced reciprocal translocation, rcp(8;15) (p11;p11). Review of six previously reported trisomy 8p patients (resultant from parental balanced translocation in each instance) revealed severe mental retardation in five, short stature in all, and a variety of brain, skeletal, and cardiac defects. The features of the seven trisomy 8p patients reviewed here are not sufficiently similar to suggest a distinct dysmorphic syndrome. In addition the features differ from those in the trisomy 8 mosaicism syndrome, in which the mental retardation and malformations are generally less severe.
Trisomy 12p due to an adjacent 1 segregation of a maternal reciprocal translocation t(12;18) (p11;q23).	A 5, 9-12-year-old with trisomy 12 pdue to a maternal reciprocal translocation adjacent 1 segregation is presented. Comparison of his phenotype with that of other patients reported in the literature confirm the existence of a trisomy syndrome.
A satellited Y chromosome]	A previous report in 1967 on the observation of a satellited Y chromosome found in a French Canadian family line is confirmed by the use of the ammoniacal silver procedure which stains selectively the nucleolus organizer regions (NORs) in acrocentric human chromosomes. There is evidence that this peculiar chromosome results from the translocation to the distal end of the Y chromosome long arms of a satellited segment from a D or G autosome.
Trisomy 13qter by tandem duplication 46, XX, dir dup 13 (q21 qter), 9qh+]	A tandem translocation of chromosome 13-46,XXdup13(q21 leads to qter)--occurred de novo in a patient with the following features: normal birthweight; early feeding difficulties; mild psychomotor retardation; low set hairline on the forehead; thick eyebrows; long, upturned eyelashes; pointed nose; micrognathia; large, flat, posteriorly rotated ears; multiple hemangiomata; normal hematological status. The hypothesis of an unequal crossing-over is discussed, as well as the possibility of constructing a phenotypic map of chromosome 13.
Chronology of the replication of sex chromosome bands in lymphocytes of normal subjects and patients]	The replication sequence of the bands carried by chromosomes X and Y has been studied in normal individuals and in patients with structural abnormalities of the X. By comparing the segment with that of the autosomal bands (which had been previously studied), it was shown that the normal early X replicates in early X-phase for its R-bands and in late S-phase for its Q bands. The late X replicates entirely in late S-phase, and the sequence of band replication is not as stringent as for the early X and the autosomes. The study of fourteen cases of anomalies of chromosome X in females showed the following: in balanced reciprocal X-autosome translocations the rearranged X most often replicates early and the normal X late. Both show a normal replication sequence of their bands. In non-balanced X-autosome translocations, inactivation of the autosome fragment attached to the AUTOSOME FRAGMENT ATTACHED TO THE X may take place. In Xq- or in ter rea (X;X) (pter;pter), band p22 has a delayed replication. In iso-Xor Xp-, the long-arm-band sequence of replication shows a variation comparable to that of the late X in fibroblasts. These replication modifications are likely to induce partial inactivations or changes in activity which correspond to the so-called position effect in Drosophila.
Trisomy 3 (p23-pter) resulting from maternal translocation, t (3 ; 4)(p23 ; q35).	We describe a patient with partial trisomy 3p resulting from maternal translocation, t(3:4)(p23;q35). The male newborn who died at the age of 22 hours presented with distinct facial features including a square-shaped face with prominent forehead and depressed temporal regions, prominent cheeks, short broad nose, left cleft lip and cleft palate, malformed ears, and a receding mandible. Further findings were flexion deformities of the fingers with finger-like thumbs and mild cutaneous syndactyly 2/3 and 4/5, hypoplastic penis and scrotum with no palpable testes. He probably had a congenital heart defect and situs inversus abdominalis. Many of these features have been reported in other patients with distal trisomy 3p.
Double aneuploidy: partial trisomy 21 and XO/XXX in a family with 12/21 translocation.	A female patient with mild mental retardation with spatial perceptual difficulties, microcephaly, depressed nasal root, receding chin, webbed neck, low hairline, shield chest, cubitus valgus, scoliosis and dermatoglyphic findings not characteristic of Down's syndrome is reported. In addition to X/XXX, she had a partial trisomy 21 of the short arm-centromere-proximal long arm segment due to maternal t(12;21) translocation. Two phenotypically normal siblings carried the balanced translocation.
Partial trisomy for the distal part of the short arm of chromosome 11 due to paternal translocations 11/5]	A girl with partial trisomy for the short arm of chromosome 11 resulting from an unbalanced translocation 46,XX,der 5, t(5,11) (p 15,p14) pat is described. The clinical findings are compared with those of other patients with partial trisomy 11p. The translocation in the balanced form was present in the fater, the brother, and the grandmother of the proposita.
Jumping translocation of chromosome 14 in a skin squamous cell carcinoma from a xeroderma pigmentosum patient.	The cytogenetic study of a case of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma developed in a child affected by xeroderma pigmentosum is described. In this paratetraploid tumor, virtually all mitoses had the following rearrangements: i(1q), i(1p), t(3q14q), del(9p), and der(19)t(8;19). In addition, there were several deletions of 1p and 1q. The del(9p) likely occurred as the first rearrangement. The distal segment of the short arm of chromosome #9 and the long arm of #19 and #22 were the most underrepresented and chromosome #6 the most overrepresented chromosome or chromosome segment. The most striking anomaly detected was a jumping translocation of chromosome #14, involved with chromosomes #1, #3, #5, #7, #9, #14, and #22. The breakage of chromosome #14 always occurred on the short arm.
3p involvement in a renal cell carcinoma in von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Region of tumor breakpoint clustering on 3p?	The cytogenetic findings in a renal cell carcinoma from a patient with von Hippel-Lindau syndrome are reported. Of the two consistent changes, one was a dicentric chromosome evolving from an unbalanced translocation between the proximal part of the short arm of chromosome 3 and the distal segment of the long arm of the X chromosome.
Translocation (8;21) and its variants in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. The relative importance of chromosomes 8 and 21 to the genesis of the disease.	Chromosome analysis was performed in 25 patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), mostly of the M2 type. Eighteen had the standard translocation, t(8;21)(q22;q22), four had complex translocations involving 1p36, 11p13, 17p11, and 17p23, respectively, with chromosomes 8 and 21, and the remaining three patients had simple translocations, one with t(3;21)(p14;q22) and two with t(16;21)(p11;q22), without involving chromosome 8. Chromosome abnormalities additional to t(8;21) and its variants that were most frequently observed were -X, -Y, and del(9). Complex translocations are thought to be derived from the standard translocation and to be essentially similar in nature. The finding that chromosome 21 was involved in all of the standard, simple, and complex translocations, and that chromosome 8 was not involved in simple variants suggest a greater weight of chromosome 21 in the relative importance of the two chromosomes to the genesis of ANLL.
Two new cases of primary peripheral neuroepithelioma of soft tissue with translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12).	A direct cytogenetic analysis was performed on tumor samples obtained from two patients with clinical and histopathologic diagnosis of primary peripheral neuroepithelioma. Both tumors presented the translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12). These results confirm those previously obtained by other authors and suggest a common histogenetic origin for this tumor with Ewing's sarcoma and Askin's tumor, in which the same translocation has been described.
Acquired homozygosity of the rearranged bcr allele during the acute leukemic phase of a patient with Ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia.	A 45-year-old male patient with Ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) had rearranged bcr-3' and bcr-5' gene regions in Southern blot studies when leukemia was diagnosed. During development of terminal blast crisis, successive blood samples showed a progressive decrease in the amount of germline bcr DNA and its complete loss by full blast crisis. There were also increased amounts of rearranged bcr DNA consistent with acquired homozygosity. A similar result was obtained with an IgV lambda probe and indicated homozygosity of a significant part of chromosome 22. The bcr-abl gene complex behaves as a somatic dominant in CML, and we suggest that its acquired homozygosity is a mechanism of bcr-abl amplification similar to duplication of the Ph chromosome commonly found in the blast crisis of CML.
A new specific chromosomal rearrangement, t(11;20)(p15;q11), in myeloblastic leukemia with maturation.	The translocation t(11;20)(p15;q11) was found as the sole acquired clonal chromosome abnormality in two patients with acute myeloid leukemia. The bone marrow morphology in both cases corresponded to the M2 subtype of the French-American-British (FAB) classification. None of the patients achieved complete remission, and both died less than 6 months after diagnosis. This particular translocation has not previously been reported in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.
Cytogenetic data on sarcomas of the bone and soft tissue]	Cytogenetic data are now available in most bone and soft tissue sarcomas. The characteristic chromosomal rearrangements observed are of great importance for the diagnosis, the classification and the comprehension of these cancers at the molecular level.
Masked Ph chromosome due to a new type of translocation in a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia.	A chronic myelogenous leukemia patient with a masked Ph chromosome due to a new type of translocation, t(9;11;22)(q34;p11;q11), is reported.
A Ki-1 (CD30)-positive human cell line (Karpas 299) established from a high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, showing a 2;5 translocation and rearrangement of the T-cell receptor beta-chain gene.	We describe the characterization of a new human cell line, Karpas 299 (K299), established from blast cells in the peripheral blood of a 25-year-old white man. His illness, which began with enlarged occipital and axillary nodes and weight loss, ended after 7 months with generalized lymphadenopathy, pleural effusion, and bone marrow involvement. A lymph node biopsy showed a large cell lymphoma mainly sinusoidal in distribution. The blast cells with pleomorphic nuclei resembled primitive histiocytes. The cells, which expressed the T-cell-associated markers CD4 and CD5, were positive for HLA-DR, epithelial membrane antigen, and CD30 (Ki-1 antigen). The karyotype was aneuploid and included a translocation 2;5. The site of translocation on chromosome 5 (at 5q35.1) is in the region of the locus of the c-fms oncogene (receptor of the monocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor MCSF or CSF-1). The cell line Karpas 299 has the same karyotype and pattern of antigen expression as the patient's cells. Northern blot analysis of RNA showed an active rearrangement of the T-cell receptor beta-chain gene. This is to our knowledge the first Ki-1 antigen-positive line to be established from a case of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Are double translocations double trouble?	Double translocation heterozygotes are rare, but need not necessarily pose more of a counselling problem than single reciprocal translocation heterozygotes. Nine cases of double translocation are presented, together with a review of the few reports published to date. An attempt is made to provide simple counselling guidelines in the assessment of the risk of producing a liveborn abnormal child. This is not based on theoretical considerations of segregation patterns, but extrapolated from what is known empirically about the viable segregation patterns in carriers of single reciprocal translocations. It assumes that there is no interference with the independent assortment of the two separate exchanges, unless a common participating chromosome is involved. The possibility of an interchromosomal effect has not been taken into consideration.
Acute leukemia with translocation (8;16)]	Three cases of M5 acute leukemia, 1 with a t(8;16)(p11;p13), 2 with variant translocations, both with a breakpoint at band 8p11, t(6;8)(q27;p11) and t(8;19)(p11;q13) are reported and 12 other published cases reviewed. This is a rare new entity, of variable but rather poor prognosis, seen from birth to 75 years of age, with several cases in infants. Leukemic cells, which often show conspicuous phagocytic activity on bone marrow smears, bear both monocytic and granulocytic markers in at least some cases. The best therapeutic regimen is not well-defined. The molecular basis of the disorder remains to be elucidated.
Childhood myelodysplastic syndromes with 11p15 translocation.	Two cases of childhood myelodysplastic syndrome with chromosome abnormalities involving band 11p15 are described. The first case, with inv(11)(p15q23), had a complex clinical course; the initial diagnosis was aplastic anemia, then refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation (RAEB-t), and finally, before death, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with hematologic features similar to those of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). The second case, with t(4;11)(p13;p15), progressed from RAEB to acute myelogenous leukemia (M2). In the literature, we found 12 patients with nonlymphocytic leukemia and chromosome abnormalities involving band 11p15, including seven cases with t(7;11)(p13-p15;p15); four cases (including the present case 1) showed CML-like hematologic features. It is suggested that translocations involving 11p15 are a nonrandom chromosome abnormality in nonlymphocytic leukemia.
Characterization of Y chromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid fragments and translocations by Southern blot analysis.	Hybridization of Y chromosome-specific probes to Southern blots of genomic deoxyribonucleic acid from patients with chromosomal variants permits direct and rapid characterization of the chromosomal content. We have used two single-copy Y chromosomal sequences specific for the short arm (47z and DP34) and one repeated sequence specific to the long arm (Y3.4) to study several patients with different types of sex chromosomal abnormalities, including three patients with gonadal dysgenesis and the karyotype 45,X/46,X + fragment, two females with Y autosomal translocations involving similar regions of the Y chromosome (46,XX,t(Y;14)(q11,p11) and 46,XY,t(Y;15)(q11,p11), two males with very small Y chromosomes (del(Y)(q12) and i(Yp], and a 45,X male with a small Y autosomal translocation. These techniques are more sensitive than chromosome banding and thus are an important adjunct to karyotyping for analysis of chromosomal content. For patients with gonadal dysgenesis and uncharacterized fragments, demonstration of Y chromosomal sequences identifies an important risk factor for the development of gonadoblastoma. For other patients, accurate identification of Y chromosomal content may facilitate prediction of the patient's phenotype.
Genomic diversity of Philadelphia-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia.	The incidence of breakpoints in CML patients with variant translocations was investigated. There was no relationship between the length of various chromosomes with breakpoint frequency. However, a significantly higher (p less than 0.05) incidence of breaks were seen on the long arms as compared to the short arms due mainly to the involvement of 9q and 22q in these translocations. Chromosome 17 showed a significantly (p less than 0.005) higher involvement in these translocations, however only when 9q34-qter was not cytogenetically involved. A total of 683 breaks were found in 225 cases. 362 of these were located at c-abl and c-sis, while 110 were at other oncogenetic sites. The prognostic and hematologic features of patients with variant translocations are not significantly different from those of CML cases with the typical 9q;22q translocation. Some of these complex translocation, where the breakpoints are correlated with oncogenetic sites, are further discussed in molecular terms.
New structural chromosomal rearrangements in congenital leukemia.	The karyotypic abnormalities and clinical data on three patients in whom acute leukemia was diagnosed within the first 6 months of life are presented. The four structural chromosomal rearrangements detected in the bone marrow from these patients, i.e., t(7;12)(q36;p13) and t(1;19)(q11;q11) in case 1, t(2;10;11;12)(q21q31;p13;q13;q24) in case 2, and t(11;19)(q23;p13) in case 3, have not previously been associated with congenital leukemia. Acquired chromosomal changes have until now been reported in only 31 leukemic infants in this age group. Of the total material, 18 patients had acute lymphoblastic leukemia and 16 had acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. The by far most frequently recorded cytogenetic aberration has been t(4q;11q), seen in 14 cases of lymphoblastic leukemia. Although t(4q;11q) has not been found in a single patient with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia, these leukemias have often had other rearrangements involving the same region of 11q. Hence, genetic material around 4q21 may be active in lymphocytic differentiation, whereas gene(s) in 11q23 may be important in the neoplastic process in a less cell-type specific manner and perhaps particularly vulnerable to neoplastic rearrangement in fetal life. The finding of four cases out of 34 with translocations between 11q23 and chromosome 19 indicates that this rearrangement might characterize a specific cytogenetic subgroup of leukemia in the very young.
Heterogeneity in expression of the bcr-abl fusion transcript in CML blast crisis.	The 9;22 Philadelphia chromosome translocation in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) generates a bcr-abl fusion gene which codes for an aberrant 8-kb bcr-abl hybrid message. CML blast crisis cell lines display enhanced in vitro expression of this aberrant bcr-abl transcript when compared with fresh CML chronic phase cells. We directly compared in fresh patient samples the level of expression of the bcr-abl transcript in CML blast crisis versus chronic phase cells. All chronic phase patients displayed relatively low amounts of this aberrant transcript, while four of 10 blast crisis patients expressed this transcript at significantly higher levels. The remaining six blast crisis samples exhibited low levels of the aberrant transcript comparable to chronic phase cells. The two patients displaying the highest levels of the bcr-abl transcript did not harbor amplified copies of the bcr-abl fusion gene. This heterogeneity in the level of expression of the bcr-abl transcript in CML blast crisis indicates that enhanced expression of this aberrant transcript is not an absolutely necessary condition for blast transformation.
The first intron in the human c-abl gene is at least 200 kilobases long and is a target for translocations in chronic myelogenous leukemia.	The c-abl protooncogene is unusual in two respects; it has multiple, widely space N-terminal coding exons transcribed by different promoters, and it is the target of the translocations that form the Philadelphia chromosome found in cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients. To understand the organization of the gene in normal and chronic myelogenous leukemia patient DNA we have mapped c-abl by pulsed field gradient gel electrophoresis. We find that one of the alternative 5' exons of the gene lies at least 200 kilobases upstream of the remaining c-abl exons, posing formidable transcription and splicing problems. The 5'-most c-abl exon includes an unusually long 1,276-base-pair segment that contains 15 ATG codons and multiple short open reading frames, upstream of the abl initiator codon. Its peculiar structure suggests that c-abl may be decapitated in most chronic myelogenous leukemia patients, and we demonstrate that this is the case in the chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line K562.
Significance of inherited fragile sites in the occurrence of chromosome aberrations in tumor cells]	The data on localization of heritable fragile sites and cellular oncogenes on individual human chromosomes involved in tumour-specific aberrations are summarized in the review. Only two fragile sites (8q22 and 11q13) out of eight ones, coinciding with breakage sites in such aberrations are the loci of cellular oncogenes (mos and bcl-1, respectively). Analysis of the data confirms the supposition that heritable fragile sites are predisposing factors for chromosomal rearrangements and in the end for development of the pathological processes.
Partial monosomy 22 as result of an X/22 translocation in a newborn with DiGeorge syndrome.	The case of a neonate with clinical symptoms of DiGeorge syndrome is reported. During pregnancy the measurements by ultrasonography revealed already a significant growth retardation of the fetus, for the first time obvious in the 20th week. The child died immediately after birth. A de novo translocation X/22 was observed with the translocation chromosome being late replicating in all mitoses analysed. The own observation is discussed regarding other cases with DiGeorge syndrome and taking the differential diagnoses into account. count.
Localization of c-Ha-ras-1 oncogene in the t(7p-;11p+) abnormality of two cases with myeloid leukemia.	A reciprocal translocation involving the short arms of chromosomes #7 and #11, t(7;11)(p15;p15), was found in two patients with myeloid leukemia, one with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML-M2) and the other with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) in blastic phase. In both cases, a minor fraction of leukemic blasts in the bone marrow had Auer rods in the cytoplasm. In situ chromosome hybridization showed that the c-Ha-ras-1 oncogene localized to the breakpoint (p15) of chromosome #11 is translocated to the rearranged chromosome #7 in the AML case, whereas, it remained on the conserved region of the rearranged chromosome #11 in the CML case. The significance of the t(7;11) abnormality in myeloid leukemia is discussed.
The effects of deleting the propeptide from human preproapolipoprotein A-I on co-translational translocation and signal peptidase processing.	The two principal protein components of human high density lipoprotein particles, apoA-I and apoA-II, are initially synthesized as prepropolypeptides. The function of their NH2-terminal prosegments is not known. We have previously shown that deletion of the pentapeptide prosegment (Ala-Leu-Val-Arg-Arg) from human preproapoA-II redirects signal peptidase cleavage to a site located between the second and third residues of the mature protein (Folz, R. J., and Gordon, J. I. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 14752-14759). The hexapeptide prosegment of human preproapoA-I differs from other NH2-terminal propeptides in that it terminates with paired glutamine residues (Arg-His-Phe-Trp-Gln-Gln). To examine its role in the early events of protein export, we isolated a full-length human preproapoA-I cDNA and deleted its propeptide coding region by oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis. The effects of this deletion on co-translational translocation and signal peptidase processing were assessed using an in vitro transcription/translation/microsomal membrane processing system. Propeptide deletion reduces the efficiency of co-translational translocation/processing in both reticulocyte and wheat germ lysates but does not affect the fidelity of signal peptidase cleavage. This reduced efficiency does not appear to reflect differences in signal recognition particle-nascent protein interaction as measured by a translational arrest assay. However, differences in translocation/processing rates were noted in a postinitiation translocation/cleavage assay. This assay employed the initiation inhibitor edeine to generate nascent wild type and mutant proteins of increasing chain length which were subsequently presented to canine pancreatic membranes. Unlike preproapoA-I, pre(delta pro)apoA-I retained its ability to undergo translocation and proteolytic processing even after the entire protein was synthesized. These data suggest that the propeptide in human preproapoA-I may play a role in promoting an optimal structure for co-translational translocation and processing.
Chromosome aberrations in Prader-Willi-Labhart syndrome--critical review, documented by 4 unusual cases]	Report on two males who exhibit a syndrome which reminds Prader-Willi-Labhart syndrome (PWLS) because of craniofacial dysmorphy, acromicria, hypogenitalism, obesity and mental deficiency. A supernumerary small marker chromosome was identified as duplication of the juxtameric parts of chromosome 15. In a 15 years old female and in a 4 years old unrelated male deletion of 15q1 is due to translocation with a chromosome 7 and 20 respectively subsequent to 3:1 distribution. Therefore both patients share partial monosomies of chromosome 15 but also of the other autosome involved. Various chromosomal aberrations in PWLS but mostly deletions of chromosome 15 either isolated or associated with translocation are summarized. Patients with a PWLS like syndrome and a marker chromosome consisting of juxtameric parts of chromosome 15 constitute a particular group which is delineated from PWLS but also from a large heterogeneous group of supernumerary marker chromosomes.
Transformation of polycythemia vera to acute nonlymphocytic leukemia accompanied by t(1;3)(p36;q21) karyotype.	The case of a patient with a history of polycythemia vera and 46,XX karyotype who transformed into acute nonlymphocytic leukemia with 46,XX,t(1;3)(p36;q21) rearrangement is reported. Significant percentages of the circulating blasts in the peripheral blood were positive on immunocytochemical stains for megakaryocyte markers, anti-Factor VIII, and antiglycoprotein IIb/IIIa. On the basis of our studies and published reports, trilineage hematopoietic abnormalities and a poor response to therapy may represent typical features of patients with t(1;3).
The value of chromosome anomalies in the prognosis of acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia in children]	Cytogenetic studies performed on 130 consecutive childhood acute non lymphoblastic leukemias (ANLL) and investigated in the same center between 1977 and 1986 have been studied for their prognostic value. Clonal chromosome changes were detected in 68.5% (89/130) of the cases prior to treatment. Complete remission rate and median survival were significantly lower in patients with only abnormal metaphases than in patients with only normal metaphases (NN) or a mixture of normal and abnormal mitoses (AN). The ANLL with translocation t(8;21), which were 58.6% of the M2 ANLL, were not associated with a particularly long survival (16 months) when compared with AN and NN ANLL. The longest survival (26 months) was observed in patients with acute myelomonocytic leukemia with bone marrow eosinophilia. Cytogenetic analysis have a prognostic value in childhood ANLL.
Indistinguishable patterns of protooncogene expression in two distinct but closely related tumors: Ewing's sarcoma and neuroepithelioma.	Genetic characterization of human tumors promises new insights of biological importance and clinical relevance. We have found that two solid tumors, peripheral neuroepithelioma and Ewing's sarcoma of bone, which share a common cytogenetic rearrangement, are characterized by an indistinguishable and highly reproducible pattern of protooncogene expression. c-myc, N-myc, c-myb, and c-mil/raf-1 are all expressed at similar levels in these tumors. c-fes and c-sis expression was not detected in any specimens of either tumor. In contrast, the protooncogene c-ets-1, located near the breakpoint of the chromosomal translocation in these tumors, is variable in its expression. We also detected high levels of choline acetyltransferase in these tumors, which suggests a common neural origin. Since it is likely that the clinical behavior and therapeutic responsiveness of tumors relate closely to their biological and genetic features, the pattern of protooncogene expression of individual tumors may provide a novel basis for their characterization.
Chromosomal rearrangement involving chromosomes 4, 6, 11 and 11.	The case of a healthy 29-year-old woman is reported who had a history of three early spontaneous abortions. Chromosomal analysis of the mother of the patient showed a balanced karyotype of 46,XX,t(6;11) (q24; q21), whereas the chromosomes of her father were normal. The karyotype of this patient is thus a combination of a familial translocation 6;11 and a de novo translocation 4;11, which is very rare.
Contribution of immunology and molecular biology]	Recent technical advances in immunology and molecular genetics have allowed to better delineate Ewing sarcoma among other small round cell tumors of bone and soft tissues. Ewing cells present with a characteristic translocation t (11;22) (q23-24; q11-12) shared with neuroepithelioma. They express a series of cell-surface antigens associated with the neuroectodermal differentiation lineage. These data open new avenues for exploring the origin and the mechanism of transformation of these tumors and to conceive new therapeutical approaches.
Translocation t(12;19)(q13;q13.3). A new recurrent abnormality in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia with atypical erythropoiesis.	A new reciprocal, apparently balanced translocation between chromosomes 12 and 19, t(12;19)(q13;q13.3), was detected in 5% (3/59) of patients with FAB M1 or M2 acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. In either case, this translocation was part of complex but different cytogenetic abnormalities. None of the patients had a significant response to therapy. In one instance, however, the translocation was found at first relapse after 2 years of complete remission, and no information regarding the karyotype at disease onset was available. Hematologically common to these patients were marked marrow erythroid hyperplasia and severely abnormal erythropoiesis despite normal serum B12 and folate levels. A direct association between t(12;19) and these hematologic findings will have to be established as more cases with this chromosomal abnormality are identified.
Translocation t(11;21)(q24;q11.2) is a new nonrandomly occurring chromosome change in myelodysplastic syndromes.	An identical translocation, t(11;21)(q24;q11.2), has been observed in three patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome. In all cases, duplication of the 11q+ marker and loss of the normal chromosome 11 were observed either at diagnosis or during the evolution of the disease. This apparently characteristic chromosome abnormality has not been previously described.
Translocation t(3;4)(q26;q21) in myelodysplastic syndrome with megakaryoblastic proliferation.	A 74-year-old Japanese male with a 4-year history of refractory anemia with excess of blasts is reported here. Chromosome study revealed the bone marrow cells of this patient to contain a t(3;4)(q26;q21). Ultrastructural analysis of platelet peroxidase and immunocytochemical study using monoclonal antibody for platelet antigen revealed a large number of blasts in the bone marrow to be megakaryoblasts. Thus, this case was thought to be one of a myelodysplastic syndrome with excess of blasts including megakaryoblastic proliferation showing chromosome changes at 3q26 and 4q21. The relationship of the anomaly on the long arm of a chromosome #3, especially at band 3q26, to abnormal megakaryoblastic proliferation is discussed.
Population analysis of karyotypic heterogeneity of the Raji Burkitt lymphoma cell line. Analysis of 100 karyotypes.	A constant lymphoblastoid line Raji (Burkitt lymphoma) has been used as a model for population cytogenetic studies. In analyzing 100 G-banded metaphase plates, four karyotypically distinct clones of cells with 48 chromosomes have been recognized, forming a modal class. In tracing the origin of marker chromosomes (in all 15), the presence of material specific for Burkitt chromosome markers 14q+ and 8q- has been shown. The application of the method of karyotype reconstruction has shown a uniformity in the overall chromosome material of all four groups of cells despite a different set of normal and marker chromosomes. The presence of 40% of cells with unique structural rearrangements (USR) demonstrated, to a significant extent, the structural instability of chromosomes in Raji cells. The nonrandom nature of distribution of "hot spots" along the chromosomes in the process of formation of both markers and USR has been shown. A preferential involvement of chromosomes #6, #7, and #8, as well as of separate regions 1p32, 6q15, 11q13, and 21p13 has been recorded. This report discusses aspects of karyotypic heterogeneity of cell populations in vitro and structural instability of regions of chromosomes #1 and #11, that coincide with the localization of the oncogene L-MYC or sequence BLYM-1 and the oncogene BCL-1.
Breakpoints in variant Philadelphia translocations in chronic myeloid leukemia.	To date, 327 cases of variant Philadelphia translocations found in chronic myeloid leukemia have been described. A statistical analysis using the Monte Carlo simulation was performed to determine which chromosomal bands were preferentially involved in variant Philadelphia translocations. The results showed that twenty-eight bands were significantly rearranged (P less than 0.05).
Balanced and unbalanced 1;19 translocation-associated acute lymphoblastic leukemias.	The authors studied clinical and immunologic characteristics of six children with 1;19 translocation-associated acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL); two of the six had the balanced type, t(1;19)(q23;p13), three had the unbalanced type, -19,+der(19)t(1;19)(q23;p13) with a resultant partial 1q trisomy, and the other had a mosaicism of cells with the balanced type and those with the unbalanced one, t(1;19)/-19,+der(19)t(1;19). Leukemic cells of all three patients, in which intracytoplasmic immunoglobulin was determined, were proved to show pre-B phenotype. Of the six patients, three had an initial leukocyte count of greater than 50 X 10(9)/l, and were classified in the high-risk group. Three patients relapsed after a brief remission and died. The mosaicism observed suggested that at least in some patients the leukemic cells with -19,+der(19)t(1;19) might derive from those with t(1;19) as a step in the course of clonal evolution. Our data and a review of the literature indicate that there may be no differences in the clinical and immunologic characteristics between the patients with the balanced translocation and those with the unbalanced one, and that the leukemia with the 1;19 translocation may join with other translocation-associated ALLs, with which the patients are known to have poor prognosis.
Translocation (4;11) in ALL: a new morphologic aspect?	We have observed three patients with t(4;11)(q21;q23) among the 50 cases of ALL studied. Two were classified as L1 and the third as L3. We comment on the relationship between the morphologic classification of leukemias and the association with a t(4;11).
t(9;11)(p22;q24) in a patient with acute monocytic leukemia.	A case of t(9;11)(p22;q24) in a patient with acute monocytic leukemia is described. The difficulties of establishing the precise breakpoints involved in this emerging association are discussed.
Random acrocentric bivalent associations in human pachytene spermatocytes. Molecular implications in the occurrence of Robertsonian translocations.	Acrocentric bivalent associations were studied in 232 human male germ cells at pachytene in order to understand better the preferential involvement of chromosomes 13, 14, and 21 in Robertsonian translocations. The tendency of each acrocentric bivalent to associate with another was not correlated with NOR activity, as measured by silver staining. Good agreement was noticed between their ability to associate and the amount of satellite DNA in human acrocentric chromosomes. The distribution of two-by-two acrocentric bivalent associations was random. In order to reconcile this result with the nonrandom distribution of Robertsonian translocations, a molecular hypothesis is proposed. The model is based on homology of recombinational sites, interspersed at regular interval in satellite DNA, which could increase the probability of accidental unequal crossing-over between two specific acrocentric chromosomes.
Translocation (9;11)(p21;q23) in a child with acute monoblastic leukemia following 2 1/2 years after successful chemotherapy for neuroblastoma.	This is a case report of a 4 1/2-year-old boy who developed acute monoblastic leukemia 2 1/2 years after he had been treated successfully with combined chemotherapy for neuroblastoma. All analyzable bone marrow-derived metaphases had the karyotype 47,XY, + 8,t(9;11)(p21;q23). The rare occurrence of specific chromosomal translocations in leukemias following prior chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and their possible clinical implications in such cases are discussed.
11q23 involvement in a complex insertion (10; 11) in acute monocytic leukemia.	A variant insertion (10p; 11q) preceded by a paracentric inversion of the long arm of chromosome 11, inv(11)(q12q23), has been found in a patient with ANLL-M5a. The association of 11q abnormalities involving the breakpoint 11q23 with acute monocytic leukemia is confirmed.
Molecular analysis of both translocation products of a Philadelphia-positive CML patient.	The breakpoint regions of both translocation products of the (9;22) Philadelphia translocation of CML patient 83-H84 and their normal chromosome 9 and 22 counterparts have been cloned and analysed. Southern blotting with bcr probes and DNA sequencing revealed that the breaks on chromosome 22 occurred 3' of bcr exon b3 and that the 88 nucleotides between the breakpoints in the chromosome 22 bcr region were deleted. Besides this small deletion of chromosome 22 sequences a large deletion of chromosome 9 sequences (greater than 70 kb) was observed. The chromosome 9 sequences remaining on the 9q+ chromosome (9q+ breakpoint) are located at least 100 kb upstream of the v-abl homologous c-abl exons whereas the translocated chromosome 9 sequences (22q-breakpoint) could be mapped 30 kb upstream of these c-abl sequences. The breakpoints were situated in Alu-repetitive sequences either on chromosome 22 or on chromosome 9, strengthening the hypothesis that Alu-repetitive sequences can be hot spots for recombination.
Trans-acting elements modulate expression of the human c-myc gene in Burkitt lymphoma cells.	We have used a competition assay to identify the targets of trans-acting elements that modulate the expression of the human c-myc gene (designated MYC in human gene nomenclature). For this purpose, a c-myc hybrid indicator gene was formed by joining the c-myc promoter region, first noncoding exon, and intron to the bacterial gene for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT). The test assay consisted of cotransfecting the indicator gene with competing fragments of DNA derived from suspected control regions of the c-myc gene. Such experiments test the hypothesis that control regions are often targets for the binding of trans-acting regulatory factors that can be diverted to competing fragments of DNA. A negatively acting element will be diverted from the indicator gene, allowing the gene's enhanced expression, whereas a positively acting element will behave oppositely. Control indicator genes driven by non-myc promoters assess the specificity of the effect. Using this approach, we find three c-myc regions that are capable of enhancing the expression of the indicator gene in competition assays (i.e., putative sites of negative modulation). In addition, we find sequences near the c-myc promoters that suppress expression in competition assays (i.e., putative binding sites of positively acting factors). These results, with appropriate controls, suggest the existence of target sites near the c-myc gene that specifically modulate its expression both positively and negatively. Their locations fit well with regions damaged or lost in many Burkitt lymphoma and murine plasmacytoma translocations.
Extra-small marker chromosomes in couples with reproductive failure.	From a pre-selected series of couples with reproductive failure, the authors are presenting 4 couples in which one of the members has an extra marker chromosome in mosaic with a normal line. The relationship between the caryotype and the reproductive failure of these couples is discussed.
Acute lymphocytic leukemia: correlation of clinical features with immunocytochemical classification.	Many immunologic studies of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) during the past decade have demonstrated the close correlation of immunologic phenotypes of ALL subclasses with the clinical presenting features and prognosis. However, the clinical application of conventional immunologic techniques had been very limited because of the requirement of a fresh sample to prepare the mononuclear cell suspensions for study. We studied 81 cases of ALL using immunoperoxidase stain for nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and immunoalkaline phosphatase stain for surface markers (using monoclonal antibody J5 for common ALL antigen [CALLA], Leu-1 for pan-T antigen, and B1 for pan-B antigen) on air-dried smears. The cases were classified as common ALL (TdT+, CALLA+, pan-T-, and pan-B-) (41 cases), null-ALL (TdT+, CALLA-, pan-T-, and pan-B-) (19 cases), T-ALL (TdT+, CALLA-, pan-T+, and pan-B-) (nine cases), B-ALL (TdT-, CALLA-, pan-T-, and pan-B+) (six cases), pre-B-ALL (TdT+/-, CALLA+, pan-T-, and pan-B+) (four cases), or pre-T-ALL (TdT+, CALLA+, pan-T+, and pan-B-) (two cases). This subtyping of ALL correlated well with known clinical presenting features, prognosis, chromosome analysis in 35 cases with an abnormal clone, and conventional immunologic typing in 38 cases. The data suggest that these simple and practical immunocytochemical stains can be used for immunologic subclassification of ALL.
A case of myelodysplastic syndrome with high platelet counts and a t(3;8)(q26;q24).	A 62-year-old male patient with refractory anemia with excess of blasts had a t(3;8)(q26;q24) as an acquired chromosomal abnormality in the bone marrow. This aberration has not been previously reported as a sole anomaly in any type of neoplasm, including myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative disorders. The findings of disturbed thrombocytopoiesis with high platelet counts and micromegakaryocytes in the bone marrow support the idea that alteration of the transferrin receptor gene, localized to 3q26, may be of pathogenetic significance.
Three cases of translocation (8;16)(p11;p13) observed in acute myelomonocytic leukemia: a new specific subgroup?	In three cases of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia we observed a translocation (8;16)(p11;p13); in one case it was the sole karyotypic change and in the other two cases it was associated with other structural anomalies. All three cases were nonhyperleukocytic myelomonocytic leukemias with erythrophagocytosis by some blast cells and cytochemistry results consistent with leukemic proliferation of a common monocytic-granulocytic precursor. The importance of this translocation is discussed, and the implication of band 16p13 in myelomonocytic leukemia is stressed.
Variant Philadelphia translocations in chronic myeloid leukemia.	Up to the beginning of 1986, some 327 variant Philadelphia translocations were reported in chronic myeloid leukemia. The present study represents an attempt to determine which factors (sex, age, geographic localization, etc.) influence the occurrence and chromosome involvement of these variant Philadelphia (Ph1) translocations. Clinical data indicated that band 9q34 was always rearranged in the variant Ph1 translocations and no difference existed between the hematologic and prognostic features among patients with the standard and the variant translocations. An uneven geographic distribution of the variant Ph1 translocations was found. Whether this was due to populations with different ethnic backgrounds or to environmental factors could not be determined. Twenty-eight bands were shown to be rearranged more frequently than expected (P less than 0.05); 27 of them are known to contain a fragile site and/or an oncogene and/or are rearranged more frequently than expected in other malignancies. The chromosomes involved in these variant Ph1 translocations were found to show a very particular geographic distribution, which cannot be explained at present.
Lipomas have characteristic structural chromosomal rearrangements of 12q13-q14.	Cytogenetic analysis was performed in 10 consecutive lipomas; 6 had typical benign histology whereas four had foci of atypia. Three tumors had supernumerary ring chromosomes, 6 had different balanced rearrangements, and one had a normal karyotype. Chromosome 12 was involved in 5 of the balanced rearrangements and, although less certainly, in all the ring chromosomes, with breakpoints localized to 12q13 or q14. The other rearranged chromosomes were numbers 2, 3, 7, 8, 11, 17 and 22. These results demonstrate the non-random involvement of chromosomal region 12q13-q14 in benign lipogenic tumors. The combined data from this and previous studies on benign and malignant lipogenic tumors indicate that different levels of cytogenetic specificity exist within this group of neoplasms. We suggest that myxoid liposarcoma development requires the recombination of 2 specific chromosomal bands (12q13 and 16pII), whereas for some types of benign lipogenic tumors structural changes in 12q13-q14 may be sufficient for neoplastic growth.
Cytogenetic analysis of a gossypol-induced murine myxosarcoma.	Cytogenetic analysis of gossypol acetate-induced murine myxosarcoma demonstrated a stemline of 78 chromosomes and the presence of three marker (M) chromosomes produced by robertsonian translocation. Tumor cells at passage 1 that contain chromosomes M1 and M2 were nontumorigenic, whereas cells at passage 3 were tumorigenic in syngeneic mice and showed M1, M2, and M3. The presence of M3 has been implicated to be responsible for the tumorigenic phenotype.
Abnormalities of chromosome 12p13 and malignant proliferation of eosinophils: a nonrandom association.	Four patients representing a spectrum of haematological malignancies are reported. Two patients had Philadelphia chromosome negative myeloproliferative disorders, one had acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and one had eosinophilic leukaemia. In each case eosinophilia was present and demonstrated to be part of the malignancy by the association of clonally abnormal metaphases with eosinophil granules. Abnormalities involving the short arm of chromosome 12 (12p13) were a constant feature in all four cases and therefore a nonrandom association between this chromosome region and malignant eosinophil proliferation is proposed.
Association of a chromosomal 3;21 translocation with the blast phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia.	An identical reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 3 and 21 with breakpoints in bands 3q26 and 21q22, t(3;21)(q26;q22), was found in three male patients with the blast phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). The abnormality was clonal in all three patients and was always accompanied by either a standard or variant 9;22 translocation resulting in a Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1). In two cases, the t(3;21) was the only abnormality other than a t(9;22) in the primary clone. Serial studies of one patient demonstrated that the t(3;21) occurred as a result of clonal evolution near the time of development of the blast phase. We have not observed the t(3;21) in greater than 500 patients with CML in the chronic phase. Thus, the t(3;21) is a new recurring cytogenetic abnormality associated with the blast phase of CML.
Reciprocal translocation involving the short arms of chromosomes 7 and 11, t(7p-;11p+), associated with myeloid leukemia with maturation.	A reciprocal translocation involving the short arms of chromosomes 7 and 11, t(7;11)(p15;p15), was found in nine patients including eight with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and one with Philadelphia (Ph1) chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in blastic crisis. Although a similar chromosome rearrangement has previously been reported in five patients, including three with AML and two with CML, the 7p breakpoint in some of these cases was slightly different from that detected in our patients. Notable cytogenetic and clinicohematologic findings in our patients and those reported in the literature were as follows: (a) t(7;11) occurred in myeloid leukemia, predominantly AML with subtype M2, and occasionally in other AML subtypes and in CML with or without Ph1 chromosome; (b) t(7;11) frequently occurred as the sole chromosome abnormality; (c) most patients showed a low neutrophil alkaline phosphatase score; and (d) Auer rods were present in leukemic cells of most cases including Ph1-positive CML. Our findings suggest that a t(7;11)-associated leukemia constitutes a subgroup of myeloid malignancy involving maturing leukemic cells.
Translocation t(11;22) in esthesioneuroblastoma.	Esthesioneuroblastoma is an exceedingly rare malignant neuroectodermal tumor of olfactory epithelium origin. We have performed cytogenetic studies on a tissue culture line established from a metastatic lesion in one such patient and observed that, among several chromosomal abnormalities, the cells contained a reciprocal translocation, t(11;22)(q24;q12), indistinguishable from the one that has been reported in Ewing's sarcoma, Askin's tumor, and peripheral neuroepithelioma. The uniqueness of this marker suggests that these tumors may be derived from the same type of stem cell, with varying histopathologic and clinical manifestations.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia in a patient with a familial t(6;16)(q13;q22) translocation.	A 75-year-old man with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia was found to have a constitutional t(6;16)(q13;q22) translocation, as did his healthy daughter. Chromosomal in situ hybridization studies of the daughter's lymphocytes did not indicate translocation-mediated interruption of the metallothionein gene cluster, at 16q22, although this locus has been reported to be involved in the eosinophilic variant of acute myelomonocytic leukemia. Lymphocytes from the daughter and from the patient's brother (who had a normal karyotype), had no increased fragility at 16q22. The findings do not provide evidence for an association between the familial chromosome abnormality and this patient's leukemia.
A variant t(X;15)(p11;q22) translocation in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	Nonrandom reciprocal translocations involving chromosomes #15 and #17 are characteristic anomalies in a great majority of cases of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Other complex translocations in APL that invariably involve chromosome #17 also have been described. We describe a patient with clinical and morphologic characteristics of APL but with a previously undescribed acquired karyotype, t(X;15)(p11;q22). This is the first translocation in APL described in which chromosome #17 is not involved. Although a comparative structure/function analysis of potentially relevant genes to the translocation breakpoints in both t(X;15) and t(15;17) APL showed no major alterations, the enhanced expression of the c-Ki-ras oncogene observed in t(X;15) APL supports the concept of heterogeneity in APL at the cytogenetic and molecular levels.
Repeated tandem translocations in a clone and subclones of B16-F10 murine melanoma.	In one clone and three subclones isolated from the F10 line of the B16 mouse melanoma, a family of extraordinarily long marker chromosomes was found. Banding analyses showed that these long markers represented repeated tandem translocations. Most of these markers exhibited only two or three C-bands. Immunofluorescence staining using antikinetochore serum revealed that these markers had either two active kinetochores or one active and one inactive kinetochore. The original clone and one of the subclones were highly unstable with respect to the composition of the markers and to the ability for retaining the markers. The other two subclones were found to be relatively stable. Because all three subclones were derivatives of one clone, which was unstable, our data suggest that stable genomes can be generated from unstable progenitors.
A characteristic CFU-GM growth pattern in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	Bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells from 12 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) were cultured in soft agar or methylcellulose in the presence of 15% human placental conditioned medium as a source of colony stimulating factor. Buffy coat cells, taken from ten patients when APL was diagnosed, produced a growth pattern in soft agar that was characterized by a high incidence of small, relatively uniform clusters of promyelocytes, which, when stained in situ, reacted strongly with myeloperoxidase, Sudan black B and chloroacetate esterase. In six cases, the leukemic origin of the cluster forming cells was demonstrated by the presence of the t(15;17) in these cells. During periods of complete remission the small clusters were replaced by larger and more diverse aggregates which had a normal karyotype. At relapse the small cluster growth pattern returned. The growth pattern of small clusters is more commonly associated with APL than with other types of acute myeloid leukemia.
Novel chimaeric protein expressed in Philadelphia positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.	Cytogenic changes are becoming increasingly important in understanding the pathogenesis of human malignancies. The t(9;22) (q34;q11) translocation is one of the most consistent and generates the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1) (ref. 1) in chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML); it has also been observed in some acute lymphoblastic leukaemias (ALL) (ref. 2). In CML the breakpoints occur on chromosome 22 in the region designated bcr (ref. 3) and result in the expression of a bcr-abl fusion product of relative molecular mass (MT) 210,000 (210K) with associated in vitro tyrosine kinase activity (P210bcr-abl). In some cases of Ph1-positive ALL, a novel abl-related protein (P190all-abl) of 190K has been shown to have tyrosine kinase activity. In this report we demonstrate that the P190all-abl protein has a bcr determinant from the amino-terminal region, but is lacking a bcr determinant normally found in the P210bcr-abl near the bcr-abl junction. The chimaeric nature of the P190all-abl was confirmed by sequential immunoprecipitation with antisera against abl and bcr peptides.
Characterization and use of somatic cell hybrids with interspecific translocations involving the human X chromosome.	Two hybrid cell lines, whose only human material was a portion of the X translocated on to a mouse chromosome, have been characterized by cytogenetics, in situ hybridization and Southern blotting. In one hybrid (HORL911R8B) the region Xpter to Xq2(2-4) was identified. In the other (PIP) the single human fragment was found to contain sequences from two separate X chromosomal regions (corresponding approximately to Xp11.4-Xp22.1 and Xq26-Xqter). These two hybrids in combination with a third (WAG 8) retaining Xqter to Xp21 as a human X-autosome translocation chromosome, form a mapping panel for rapid subregional assignments to the human X chromosome. This mapping panel has been used to provide information about the order of DNA sequences derived from the X chromosome and to provide an assignment for an anonymous DNA segment, M201 gamma, to Xp11.4-Xp21.1.
Rates of mutant and inherited structural cytogenetic abnormalities detected at amniocentesis: results on about 63,000 fetuses.	We report data on diagnoses made on amniotic fluid specimens from 1977 to 1984 as reported to the New York State Chromosome Registry. The rate of all de novo (presumed mutant) abnormalities was about 2 per 1,000 in about 61,000 fetuses in which results are unlikely to be biased by the reason for amniocentesis (except for maternal age). This includes about 0.5 per 1,000 de novo markers, about 0.5 per 1,000 other de novo unbalanced, and about 1.0 per 1,000 de novo balanced rearrangements. In about 55,000 fetuses in which rates of inherited abnormalities could be evaluated without apparent bias, the rate of all inherited rearrangement was about 2.9 per 1,000. This includes about 0.3 per 1,000 inherited markers, about 0.2 per 1,000 other inherited unbalanced rearrangements, and about 2.4 per 1,000 inherited balanced abnormalities. Only mutant markers showed a clear association with maternal age (37.6 +/- 2.7 in 24 cases v. 35.8 +/- 3.6 in controls). Inherited markers did not exhibit this trend (35.8 +/- 2.0 in 12 cases v. 36.4 +/- 2.8 in controls). Paternal age does not appear to account for the association. Among abnormalities of known origin, the ratio of mutant to inherited cases is for markers 64:36, for other unbalanced rearrangements 73:27, and for all balanced abnormalities 29:71. In a subgroup of about 55,000 fetuses, of 263 total abnormalities there were 8 instances of apparent true somatic mosaics (5 mutant and 3 of unknown origin but almost certainly mutant). There were also 20 instances of markers in which presumptive somatic loss had resulted in mosaicism (10 mutant, 6 of unknown origin and 4 inherited) and 13 other instances of mosaicism associated with apparent somatic loss (9 mutant, 3 of unknown origin, and 1 inherited). The sex ratio (Y to non-Y karyotypes) for all abnormalities detected was 228:210 (1.09), not different from controls. Only deletions (5:14) and 'other' unbalanced rearrangements (5:13) exhibited a suggestive deviation from this trend. The rates of mutant chromosome rearrangements reported from 1977 to 1983 showed no apparent time cluster, with the possible exception of a peak of markers in 1977, a trend that may be due to higher maternal age in this year. Among fetuses studied because of maternal exposure to putative mutagens there was a non-significant excess of mutants (2.9-5.7 per 1,000 v. 1.7-2.2 per 1,000) and a borderline significant excess of inherited rearrangements (8.6-11.5 per 1,000 v. 2.6-3.1 per 1,000).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Myeloproliferative disorders terminating in acute megakaryoblastic leukemia with chromosome 3q26 abnormality.	Two cases of myeloproliferative disorders terminating in acute megakaryoblastic leukemia are reported. One case began as primary myelofibrosis and the other as chronic myelogenous leukemia. Blast cells in the acute leukemic phase were identified as megakaryoblasts by the presence of platelet peroxidase. The clinical course is described, and the morphology, immunologic studies, and ultrastructure studies of the blast cells are reported. On cytogenetic analysis both cases had a translocation involving the No. 3 chromosome locus q26.2. The present data suggest that 3q26 may be associated with transformation of the megakaryocytic lineage.
Promyelocytic blast crisis of Philadelphia-positive thrombocythemia with translocations (9;22) and (15;17).	We report a promyelocytic blast crisis in a case of Ph-positive thrombocythemia with both t(9;22) and t(15;17). Our patient confirms the specificity of t(15;17) in malignant proliferation of promyelocytes and suggests its appearance as a second genetic event in the genesis of blast crisis occurring in a Ph-positive clone.
A human Y-chromosomal DNA sequence expressed in testicular tissue.	Clone pJA36B (DYS14) was isolated from a human Y chromosome enriched cosmid library. Southern blot analysis revealed a male-specific hybridization pattern. Deletion mapping with patients' DNA localized pJA36B to the median region of Yp, being present in the DNA of nine of fifteen XX-males tested so far and therefore localized in the region neighbouring the TDF-locus. Northern blot analysis showed a transcription signal in poly(A)+ RNA of human testis. Sequence analysis of the genomic DNA sequence revealed an open reading frame of 522 basepairs in the absence of control or signal sequences for the regulation of transcription or polyadenylation. This suggests that only one exon of a translatable sequence is present in clone pJA36B. A computer aided search revealed no significant homologies with known DNA or protein sequences.
Ribosomal DNA magnification in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Strains monosomic for chromosome I of Saccharomyces cerevisiae contain 25 to 35% fewer rRNA genes than do normal diploid strains. When these strains are repeatedly subcultured, colonies are isolated that have magnified their number of rRNA genes to the diploid amount while remaining monosomic for chromosome I. We have determined the amount of DNA complementary to rRNA in viable haploid spores derived from a magnified monosomic strain. Some of these haploids contained 24 to 48% more rRNA genes than a normal euploid strain. These extra genes may be responsible for the increased number of rRNA genes in the strain monosomic for chromosome I. Genetic analysis of the haploids containing extra rRNA genes suggested that these genes are linked to chromosomal DNA and are heterozygous. They were not closely linked to any centromere and were not located on chromosome I. Furthermore, all the DNA complementary to rRNA in one of these haploid strains with magnified rRNA genes sedimented at a chromosomal molecular weight, consistent with chromosomal linkage. In addition, several new mutations mapping on chromosome I were used to show that ribosomal DNA magnification was not due to a chromosome I duplication.
Nephrotic syndrome associated with a clonal T-cell leukemia of large granular lymphocytes with cytotoxic function.	A 51-year-old man presented with a T-cell leukemia of large granular lymphocytes and rapidly developed a nephrotic syndrome due to presumptive minimal-change glomerulopathy. The E-rosette+, Ia+ cells demonstrated cytotoxic activity similar to that of natural killer lymphocytes but lacked other T-subset markers, except that one third of them bore Fc(IgG) receptors. Cytogenetic analysis revealed loss of chromosome 10 and the translocation (1;10)(p11;q11) in all metaphases. Regression of the leukemia after chemotherapy was accompanied by a dramatic resolution of the nephrotic syndrome, suggesting that the activated granular lymphocytes induced the renal lesion. The close association of a clonal T-lymphoproliferative disorder with minimal-change nephrotic syndrome lends further support to current views implicating activated T cells or their products in the pathogenesis of this glomerulopathy.
t(14;14)(q11;q32) in biphenotypic blastic phase of chronic myeloid leukemia.	A blastic crisis of chronic myeloid leukemia without a detectable chronic phase is reported. At diagnosis, blast cells present t(9;22)(q34;q11),t(14;14)(q11;q32) translocations and early B cell phenotype (DR +, TdT +, B4 +, BA1 +, J5 +). At relapse, the malignant clone evolves to a biphenotypic expression, the initial markers remain unchanged, and two myeloid antigens (My 7, My 9) appear. The wide overlap in percentages of blast cells displaying lymphoid and myeloid markers shows that a single clone bears antigens of both lineages. Simultaneous occurrence of a t(14;14)(q11;q32) translocation, usually found in T cell malignancies, and of a B cell phenotype raises the question of the relationship between chromosomal changes and surface marker expression. The malignant cell is assumed to be a progenitor cell, already committed to lymphoid lineage and retaining the potential to switch to myeloid lineage.
Coexpression of T- and B-markers in a lymphoproliferative disorder.	An atypical case of lymphoproliferative disorder in which T- and B-cell antigens were coexpressed in the neoplastic cells is described. The disease was characterised by hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, a low WBC (5 X 10(9)/l) and bone marrow infiltration. The predominant cell population (greater than 70%) comprised lymphoid cells with a range of nuclear irregularities and included some blast cells. 90% of the peripheral blood lymphocytes showed a mature T-helper phenotype (E+, T11+, T3+, T4+, T8-, T6-, TdT-) with coexpression of the specific B-markers B1 and FMC7, in 90% and 50% of cells, respectively. HLA-DR antigens were present in 55% of cells while surface and cytoplasmic immunoglobulins (Ig) were detected in less than 10% of cells. Molecular investigations with appropriate probes showed evidence of T-cell receptor gene rearrangement but no rearrangement for the genes of the Ig-heavy and -light chains. Cytogenetic studies revealed a translocation t(10;19) (p12; q13) in all the metaphases analyzed. This case demonstrates that the study of neoplastic cells with a battery of monoclonal antibodies may disclose the existence of a hitherto unrecognised lymphoid cell population with atypical expression of B- and T-cell antigens. On the other hand, the presence of T-cell receptor gene rearrangement indicates that this is a T-cell disorder with the aberrant co-expression of specific B-cell markers.
Expression of monocytic and T-lymphocytic phenotype in a variant form of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (M3).	A 46-yr-old woman was diagnosed as having M3 variant leukaemia in FAB subclassification with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and the 15;17 translocation. Immunologic examinations revealed that the blast cells exhibited monocytic (Ia+, Mo1+, Mo2+, My4+, My7+ and My9+) and T-lymphocytic (OKT11+, Leu4+ and Leu5b+) immunophenotype, with probably a biphenotypic population of cells. Expression of monocytic phenotype on the blast cells suggests that M3 variant includes a subtype with monocytic characteristics, and may be related to the morphologic monocyte-like feature of that of M3 variant.
Heritable translocation test on random-bred mice after prolonged triethylenemelamine treatment.	Heritable translocation and dominant lethal tests were conducted with random-bred Swiss albino male mice. The animals were provided drinking water containing triethylenemelamine (TEM) for 4 weeks, and were then mated for 3 successive weeks for analysis of dominant lethality and production of F1 progeny. Potential translocation carriers among F1 males were selected after two breedings and confirmed by cytogenetic analysis. Translocation heterozygotes were obtained in offspring of the TEM-treated groups, but not in the control groups. In F1 males produced from the first week of mating, the frequencies of translocations were 0, 1.78 6.2 and 10.0% for the control group and groups receiving TEM at 0.0125, 0.025 and 0.050 mg/kg/day, respectively, and in those produced from the third week of mating, the values were 0 and 2.1%, respectively, for the control group and the group receiving TEM at 0.050 mg/kg/day. F1 males from the second week of mating were not studied for the induction of heritable translocations. TEM-induced dominant lethality and heritable translocations were most prominent in the first week of mating after 4 weeks of treatment. In addition, heritable translocations appeared to be a more sensitive endpoint than dominant lethal mutations for the measurement of mutagenic effects of TEM.
Separation of the genetic loci for the H-Y antigen and for testis determination on human Y chromosome.	The mammalian Y chromosome encodes a testis-determining factor (termed TDF in the human), a master regulator of sex differentiation. Embryos with a Y chromosome develop testes and become males whereas embryos lacking a Y chromosome develop ovaries and become females. Expression of H-Y, a minor histocompatibility antigen, may also be controlled by a gene on the Y chromosome, and it has been proposed that this antigen is the testis-determining factor. We have tested the postulated identity of H-Y and TDF in the human. H-Y typing with T cells was carried out on a series of sex-reversed humans (XX males and XY females), each shown by DNA hybridization to carry part but not all of the Y chromosome. This deletion analysis maps the gene for H-Y to the long arm or centromeric region of the human Y chromosome, far from the TDF locus, which maps to the distal short arm.
T lymphocytes lack rearrangement of the bcr gene in Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia.	To study the possible involvement of T lymphocytes in Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) we analyzed the arrangement of the bcr gene in T cell and non-T cell samples of 12 CML patients. Although all the patients showed bcr rearrangements in non-T cell fractions, T cell populations lacked respective gene recombinations. Moreover, by Southern blot analyses using T cell receptor beta chain sequences our data indicate polyclonality of T cell samples from 11 of 12 cases; in one patient a clonal T cell population could be identified. These results suggest that T lineages of most Ph-positive CML patients are not derived from pluripotent stem cells involved in leukemogenesis and thus confirm previous investigations based on cytogenetic or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase analyses. The demonstration of polyclonal T cell populations may reflect persistence of stem cells committed to differentiate only into T cells.
A comparison of fresh and cultured T lymphocytes from patients with ataxia telangiectasia using T-cell subset markers and chromosome translocations.	Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive disorder in which patients show an unusual predisposition to lymphoid malignancies including T-cell leukaemia. We compare here the surface phenotypes of fresh and cultured A-T T cells. A total of 17 T-cell cultures from 8 A-T patients are compared with each other and with 5 T-cell cultures from normal individuals. The large, cytogenetically abnormal t(14;14) and t(X;14) clones in 2 of the patients both occurred only in the CD8+ population of T lymphocytes. There was no difference in the rate of growth of A-T T cells in vitro compared with those from normal individuals, although many of the original characteristics of the T cells were lost, including the cytogenetically abnormal clones seen in fresh A-T lymphocytes.
Ring chromosome 21 in the mother and 21/21 translocation in the fetus: karyotype: 45,XX,-21,-21,+t(21;21)(p11;q11).	In 1984 we reported a ring chromosome 21 in a normal woman with recurrent fetal wastage (Kleczkowska and Fryns, 1984). A 46,XY normal fetal karyotype was found after prenatal diagnosis at 14 1/2 weeks in a third pregnancy of this woman. In the present paper we report the prenatal diagnosis of a 21/21 translocation in a female fetus from her fourth pregnancy.
Dissociation of tdic chromosomes: about a t(15;18)(p11;p11) leading to 18p monosomy.	A 10-month-old girl with monosomy due to a de novo 45,XX,-15,-18,+tdic(15;18)(p11;p11) karyotype is described. The abnormal chromosome underwent dissociation into two telocentrics in 5/200 (2.5%) metaphases. This and other comparable instances indicate that, in addition to criss-cross separation of the dicentric chromatids, the characteristics of the anomalous reunion also influence the rate of dissociation. Besides, the mean maternal (31.2) and paternal (35.1) ages in this subtype of 18p monosomy are significantly increased.
Partial trisomy 13 due to t(X;13) translocation. Contribution of in situ hybridization]	A new case of partial trisomy 13 through unbalanced de novo translocation t(X;13) is reported. In situ hybridization has been used to specify breakage points on the X chromosome. This case is cytogenetically comparable with another reported case; the phenotypical aspect of these two patients is however different. This discrepancy is discussed.
Aberrant translocations in chronic myelogenous leukaemia with hidden chromosome 9 or 22 involvement.	Possible mechanisms are proposed to explain how chromosome 9 or 22 involvement can be hidden in aberrant translocations in chronic myelogenous leukaemia. These mechanisms need to be confirmed or rejected using in situ hybridization.
tdic(9;12): a nonrandom chromosome abnormality in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group Study.	In a review of 432 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), we identified a new nonrandom translocation, tdic(9;12)(p1?1;p1?2), in the leukemic marrow cells of eight patients. Seven had hypodiploid karyotypes that lacked chromosomes 9 and 12 and contained a der(12), tdic(9;12); the eighth had a pseudodiploid karyotype with two normal 9 chromosomes, one normal 12 and the der(12), tdic(9;12). Abnormalities involving chromosomes other than 9 and 12 were noted in four of the eight patients. All cells with the tdic(9;12) expressed both the common ALL antigen and HLA-DR. Cytoplasmic immunoglobulin, a marker of pre-B ALL, was detected in one case with the tdic(9;12) but was absent in the other seven. Our results suggest that the tdic(9;12)(p1?1;p1?2) rearrangement is specifically associated with leukemic B cell precursors.
Expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-2-Ig fusion transcripts in normal and neoplastic cells.	We examined the expression of the Bcl-2 gene at chromosome segment 18q21, that is translocated into the Ig heavy chain gene locus in t(14;18) bearing lymphomas. Bcl-2, while B cell associated, is expressed in a variety of hematopoietic lineages including T cells. Bcl-2 mRNA levels are high during pre-B cell development, the time at which the t(14;18) translocation occurs, but are down regulated with maturation. Like certain other oncogenes, Bcl-2 is quiescent in resting B cells but up-regulated with B cell activation. Mature B cell lymphomas with a t(14;18) have log-folds more mRNA than matched counterparts without the translocation. A sensitive S1 protection assay revealed that all transcripts in t(14;18) B cells were Bcl-2-Ig fusion mRNAs and originated from the translocated allele. Thus, there is a marked deregulation of Bcl-2 when it is introduced into the Ig locus in t(14;18) lymphomas.
Molecular cloning of the breakpoint junction of a human chromosomal 8;14 translocation involving the T-cell receptor alpha-chain gene and sequences on the 3' side of MYC.	The MOLT-16 cell line, which was established from the malignant cells of a patient with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, is characterized by a translocation involving chromosome 8 (band q24) and chromosome 14 (band q11) [t(8;14)(q24;q11)]. To determine the position of the gene encoding the alpha chain of the T-cell receptor and of the protooncogene MYC (formerly c-myc) in relation to the breakpoint junction and to evaluate their possible role in the pathogenesis of T-cell neoplasia, we applied the techniques of in situ chromosomal hybridization, Southern blot analysis, and molecular cloning to MOLT-16 cells. Our results indicate that the breakpoint on chromosome 14 at band q11 occurs close to a joining sequence of the gene encoding the alpha chain of the T-cell receptor. The constant region and part of the joining region of this gene are translocated to the 3' side of the MYC exons. The breakpoints on chromosomes 8 and 14 are close to, but distinct from, those found in SKW-3, another T-cell leukemia cell line, which has a t(8;14). The identification of a breakpoint to the 3' side of MYC suggests that this recurring translocation is analogous to the variant t(2;8) and t(8;22) translocations observed in the B-cell malignancies.
Specific chromosomal changes (aberrations)--supplementary marker of malignant degeneration in oncomorphologic studies]	The paper deals with some methods studying chromosome set in tumour cells. The latest data on tumour chromosome aberrations are reported. The latter are subdivided by the authors into non-specific and specific, characteristic only of certain variants of tumour differentiation, and are of diagnostic significance. The authors put forward further tasks of combined oncomorphologic and cytogenetic studies of specific chromosome aberrations as a valuable marker for the diagnosis of malignancy.
Transplantation of bone marrow with constitutional chromosomal anomalies. Cytogenetic studies and clinical implications.	We report on two cases of transplantation of bone marrow with constitutional chromosomal anomalies. A female patient with acute myelocytic leukemia (FAB, M 3) in first complete remission received a bone marrow graft from her sister with the karyotype 47 XXX (triple-X-syndrome). A male patient with Ph-positive CML and a constitutional Robertsonian t(14; 15) received HLA and MLC loci compatible bone marrow from his sister who was also a carrier of the Robertsonian t(14; 15). Our findings indicate that transplantation of marrow from donors with balanced chromosomal translocation is possible, although no conclusion can be made regarding long term results as both recipients died early from infectious complications.
Autosomal aneuploidy in mice: generation and developmental consequences.	Spontaneous aneuploidy in the mouse is uncommon, but specific mating schemes have been developed that produce aneuploid conceptuses at high frequencies. The most commonly reported aneuploid condition in the mouse is autosomal trisomy, in which there is an extra copy (in whole or in part) of a chromosome. In this review, we present several of the schemes used in producing trisomic, partially (tertiary) trisomic, and monosomic conceptuses and summarize the developmental consequences that are associated with each of the autosomal trisomies of the mouse.
Involvement of chromosomal region 9q34 in a case of variant Ph1 translocation t(22;22).	In a patient with chronic myelocytic leukemia chromosome analysis showed a translocation (22;22) (q13;q11). Chromosomes 9 were apparently not involved. Using somatic cell hybrids and a v-abl probe, we demonstrated the translocation of c-abl sequences from chromosome 9 to chromosome 22q-. This confirms the hypothesis that the translocation of c-abl oncogene is essential for the development of Ph1 positive CML.
Prenatal morphology of partial monosomy 18q.	Prenatal diagnosis, performed in a woman with reciprocal translocation (9:18), disclosed partial monosomy 18q in a fetus. Morphologic studies of this fetus revealed dysplastic face and ears, a high palate, hypomotility of joints, an accessory spleen and anomalous dermatoglyphics. Biochemical examination detected a decrease of most amino acids, which is typical for many chromosomal syndromes.
Localization of zein genes in maize.	The band patterns of zein polypeptides were determined for many commercial inbred corn lines and maize stocks using isofocusing in agarose gels and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-urea gels. Each inbred line or homozygous maize strain genotype has a distinct zein profile which has been catalogued according to the distance of charge migration and molecular weight (kilodaltons). Several zein polypeptides were mapped to chromosomes 4 and 10 with the use of reciprocal translocations. The mapping of at least two polypeptides on distal 4L and 10L had not been previously reported. The general methods used in the present research will permit the mapping of all the zein polypeptides to chromosomal sites.
Problems in using Robertsonian rearrangements in determining monophyly: examples from the genera Tatera and Gerbillurus.	Chromosomal banding data on three species of Tatera from Kenya significantly alter the previous hypothesis of relationships between and within the genera Tatera and Gerbillurus based on cladistic analyses and the rule of parsimony (Qumsiyeh, 1986b). Of the many possible hypothetical relationships, the most parsimonious tree showed three homoplasies and allowed the genus Gerbillurus to be paraphyletic. The alternative trees, depicting larger number of homoplasies but with homoplasies restricted to fusion or fission events, were compatible with the morphological data in supporting the monophyly of Gerbillurus. To choose between the hypothesis based on the most parsimonious chromosomal tree and those supported by both morphology and slightly less parsimonious chromosomal trees, we performed an electrophoretic study on this group of gerbils. The conclusions are that the genus Gerbillurus is monophyletic and represents a branch that is closely related to the T. robusta group of Taterillini. The study documents that fissions and fusions must have occurred frequently and that in some cases the same fusions were acquired in two independent lineages in numbers exceeding those that are predicted by strict parsimony. The results raise questions about the validity of systematic conclusions based solely on fusion/fission data and utilizing the parsimony criterion.
Chromosome segregation at meiosis I in female T(2;4)1G/+ mice: no evidence for a decreased crossover frequency with maternal age.	The influence of age and hormones on chromosome segregation at meiosis I was studied in female mice heterozygous for the T(2;4)1G translocation. Females of two age groups (18-22 and 40-56 weeks old) were stimulated for ovulation with different doses of gonadotropins (1.5 IU PMS/1.0 IU HCG or 10 IU PMS/10 IU HCG). Analysis of metaphase II oocytes revealed the highest level of hyperhaploidy (1.8%) and presegregation (4.4%) in the young females receiving the low dose. Presegregation preferentially affected the small 4(2) marker chromosome. There was no significant interference of the tetravalent with disjunction of the nontranslocated normal bivalents. Moreover, no remarkable difference in the mode of segregation (adjacent I, II or alternate) was observed. Recombination within the interstitial pairing segments of the chromosomes involved in the translocation allowed us to calculate cross-over frequencies in ovulated oocytes. For both the large 2(4) and the small 4(2) marker chromosomes, this frequency was higher in old than in young T(2;4)1G/+ females. Our data do not support the production line hypothesis of Henderson and Edwards (1968) which claims that chiasma frequency in oocytes decreases with maternal age.
Frequency of chromosomally unbalanced gametes in male and female hamsters heterozygous for reciprocal translocation.	By using male and female Chinese hamsters heterozygous for reciprocal translocation, T(2;10) 3Idr and T(1;2)9Idr, features of metaphase II cells were observed, and the difference in frequency of each class of cells derived from quadrivalents was investigated. The result showed no difference between sexes in the segregation ratio of chromosomes from the quadrivalents in either strain. In four-day embryos from crosses between normal animals and translocation heterozygotes in both strains, the incidence of embryos with unbalanced chromosomes was significantly higher in the group from crosses between females heterozygous for the translocation and normal males than in the group from heterozygous males and normal females. These results suggest that in males unbalanced gametes are selectively eliminated during the period between the formation of gametes and fertilization.
Features of di George syndrome in a child with 45,XX,-3,-22,+der(3),t(3;22)(p25;q11).	A child with an unbalanced translocation resulting in monosomy for chromosomes 22 (q11----pter) and 3(p25----pter) is described. Although no immunological dysfunction could be demonstrated, the abnormalities found are similar to those seen in the di George syndrome which has been associated with monosomy for the same region of chromosome 22.
A child with partial monosomy 6q secondary to a maternal direct insertional event.	We report a child, now aged two years, who is monosomic for the region 6q23.1----q24.2. Her mother, older sister, and twin sister have a balanced chromosome complement with this region of 6q being inserted into 11q.
Chromosomally abnormal clones and nonrandom telomeric translocations in cardiac myxomas.	Cardiac myxomas from eight patients were examined cytogenetically in short-term cultures. Cultures could not be established in two of the eight cases. Chromosomally abnormal clones occurred in two of the myxomas; their karyotypes were 45,X,-Y,+7,-18 and 45,X,-Y. In three other myxomas, we found a rare kind of telomere-to-telomere translocation between chromosomes. The telomeres predominantly involved in these three tumors were the 2qter (the end of the long arm of chromosome 2), the 12pter (the end of the short arm of chromosome 12), and Yqter (the end of the long arm of the Y chromosome), respectively. In one other myxoma, 20% of the cells were tetraploid. These findings support the concept that myxomas are neoplastic; those with an abnormal clone may even have malignant potential. The unusual telomere-to-telomere translocations were not observed in a clonal pattern. They may represent a specific type of chromosomal instability associated with a defect in repair or replication of telomeric DNA.
Induction of chromosome aberrations in lymphocytes of mice after subchronic exposure to benzene.	The induction of chromosome aberrations in lymphocytes of mice after subchronic exposure to benzene was investigated. 4 groups of 5 Swiss (ICR) male mice were given orally a solution of benzene every day for 14 days except days 5 and 10. The daily doses were 0, 36.6, 73.2 and 146.4 mg/kg. Mice were sacrificed on day 15, lymphocytes were obtained by perfusion of the spleen and the cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium. After 48 h of culture, cells were harvested for cytogenetic analysis. A significant dose-dependent increase in the frequency of cells with chromatid aberrations were found (p less than 0.001). A significant increase in polyploid cells were also observed (p less than or equal to 0.05). This study represents the first report on the induction of chromosome aberrations and polyploid cells in lymphocytes of mice after subchronic exposure to benzene. Such dual activity of benzene suggests that benzene may be responsible for more human health problems than currently estimated.
Chromosomal analysis in Ewing sarcoma.	Two cases of Ewing sarcoma were karyotyped by using a fluorodeoxyuridine synchronisation procedure on short term cultures of fresh tumour material. This procedure enables rapid cytogenetic analysis of such material. Both showed relatively simple karyotypes, 48,XX, +2, +7,t(11;22)(q24;q12), ?dup(12)(q21----q24) and 47,XX,i(1q),t(11;22)(q24;q12). These results further support this translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 as a specific marker for Ewing sarcoma. Cytogenetic studies in such cases are an important adjunct to histological studies and in some cases may contribute to the resolution of the diagnosis.
Translocation and amplification of an X-chromosome DNA repeat in inbred strains of mice.	A 9-kb repetitive DNA fragment (70-38) located near the centromere of the mouse X chromosome is amplified and translocated to an autosome in different inbred strains of mice. In situ hybridization and hybrid cell studies showed that probe 70-38 is located only on the X chromosome in mouse strains A/J, AKR/J, BALB/cJ, CBA/J, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, DBA/2J and SWR/J. However, in four other mouse strains the DNA sequence is found near the centromere of an autosome in addition to the X chromosome. This autosome differs among the mouse strains (chromosome 11 in C57BL/10J or ScSn, chromosome 13 in NZB/B1NJ and chromosome 17 in SJL/J and PO). In those strains where the repeated sequence is located on an autosome, it has been amplified to about 100 copies. Restriction enzyme digestion patterns suggest a common structure for 70-38 sequences in the different strains. The changes in copy number, restriction enzyme digestion patterns, and chromosomal location of 70-38 reflect a rapid genomic evolution inbred mouse strains.
Partial trisomy 17q and a generalised bone dysplasia in a 12 week fetus.	A fetus, which was spontaneously aborted at 12 weeks' gestation, was found to have a generalised bone dysplasia and an unbalanced karyotype with trisomy for 17q23.1----qter due to a maternal translocation: 46,XX,t(5;17)(p15.3;q23.1)mat.
Non-immunologic hydrops fetalis (NIHF)--case report of double partial trisomy 15q and 17q resulting from familial translocation 15/17 and cytogenetic findings in 50 cases with hydrops fetalis]	We report the first case of non-immune hydrops fetalis (NIHF) with trisomy 15q11/17q22.5 resulting from a familial translocation 15/17. Furthermore the cytogenetic findings of 50 cases with hydrops fetalis are presented. Of the 30 cytogenetic analyzable cases 7 showed chromosomal abnormalities (4x45,X; 2x47,XY,+21; 1x47,XY,+13). In every case of NIHF a chromosomal analysis should be performed if possible from different tissues.
Theoretical model for the post-transcriptional regulation of the human c-myc gene expression, involving double-stranded RNA processing.	We propose that the human c-myc gene expression is regulated by a post-transcriptional mechanism based on the formation of a hairpin structure between c-myc mRNA exons 1 and 2. This structure could be rapidly processed by a hypothetical double stranded RNAse, removing the 5' end segment of the c-myc mRNA having the cap site. Removal of cap should propitiate exonucleolytic degradation of transcript.
Molecular analysis of the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation in malignant lymphomas.	One of the most common karyotypic abnormalities is the t(14;18) translocation, which is found in many lymphomas that have a characteristic follicular morphology. Recent molecular studies have shown that this chromosomal translocation results in the juxtaposition of the candidate proto-oncogene bcl-2 (B-cell leukemia-lymphoma) on chromosome 18 with the immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus on chromosome 14. However, because performing accurate cytogenetic studies in solid hematolymphoid neoplasms is difficult, knowledge of the prevalence of the t(14;18) translocation and, by association, the extent of bcl-2 involvement in human lymphomas is limited. We used a number of chromosome-18 DNA probes to analyze various subtypes of Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and test for structural abnormalities near or within the bcl-2 gene. Molecular features of the t(14;18) translocation were found in virtually all follicular neoplasms and about 28 percent of diffuse large-cell lymphomas. No changes in bcl-2 were found in several other subtypes of Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, including those previously suggested to originate from follicular-center cells and those about which cytogenetic data have been difficult to obtain. Our findings suggest a close pathogenetic relation between bcl-2 and a large group of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, both with and without a follicular morphology. The methods employed in this study may be useful in improving the accuracy of diagnosis and subclassification of malignant lymphomas.
Prader-Willi syndrome in siblings, due to unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 22.	In a family in which the father carried a balanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 22 two of his children had Prader-Willi syndrome and an unbalanced chromosome complement, having lost the proximal bands from the long arm of chromosome 15. His four other surviving children were normal but carried a balanced translocation.
Autosomal dominant congenital cataract associated with chromosomal translocation [t(3;4)(p26.2;p15)].	We studied a family in which congenital cataracts were found in a father and son who had a reciprocal translocation between the short arms of chromosomes 3 and 4 [t(3;4)(p26.2;p15)]. The father's parents and brother had normal chromosomes and no evidence of cataracts. While results of these studies do not prove a causal relationship, they do strongly suggest that the areas near the break points involved in the translocation (3p26.2 and 4p15) would be good sites for further investigations into the genetic basis of this type of cataract.
The mode of action of Shiga toxin on peptide elongation of eukaryotic protein synthesis.	The effect of Shiga toxin, from Shigella dysenteriae 1, on the component reactions of peptide elongation were investigated. Enzymic binding of [3H]phenylalanine-tRNA to reticulocyte ribosomes was inhibited by 50% at 7 nM toxin. Elongation factor 1 (eEF-1)-dependent GTPase activity was also inhibited. Both reactions were not restored by addition of excess eEF-1 protein. In contrast, toxin concentrations of 200 nM were required to inhibit by 50% the elongation factor 2 (eEF-2)-dependent translocation of aminoacyl-tRNA on ribosomes. Addition of excess eEF-2 restored translocation activity. The eEF-2-dependent GTPase activity was unaffected at toxin concentrations below 100 nM, and Shiga-toxin concentrations of up to 1,000 nM did not affect either GTP.eEF-2.ribosome complex-formation or peptidyltransferase activity. Thus Shiga toxin closely resembles alpha-sarcin in action, both being primary inhibitors of eEF-1-dependent reactions. In contrast, the 60 S ribosome inactivators ricin and phytolaccin are primary inhibitors of eEF-2-dependent reactions of peptide elongation.
A myeloproliferative disease in two infants associated with eosinophilia and chromosome t(1;5) translocation.	Two children are described who presented at the age of 5 and 7 months with anaemia, a high white cell count with eosinophilia and thrombocytopenia. Both children had an identical balanced translocation t(1;5)(q23;q33) and no evidence of a constitutional abnormality. The response to treatment of one child was poor, the other remains well on therapy. This translocation has not been previously reported and is likely to represent a subclass of myeloproliferative disorder analogous to the monosomy 7 syndrome, although less common. The previous literature of acquired chromosome abnormalities involving chromosomes 1 and 5 is reviewed.
Translocation t(6;9)(p22.3;q34) in myelodysplastic syndrome--refractory anemia with excess blasts.	A 69-year-old male patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB) was found to have a consistent chromosomal abnormality, t(6;9)(p22.3;q34), in the bone marrow and unstimulated peripheral blood cells. Twenty patients with t(6;9) and leukemia have been reported; some of them had a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) before developing overt ANLL. Our patient was still in the MDS stage when the t(6;9) was found. This result suggests that t(6;9) represents one of the pathways from MDS to leukemia in patients with ANLL.
Cell and cubitus interruptus dominant: two segment polarity genes on the fourth chromosome in Drosophila.	The cubitus interruptus Dominant 4-O [ciD] locus is a member of a class of genes required for the proper formation of the repeating segmental pattern of the embryo. We have found a second locus on the fourth chromosome, Cell (Ce), which is also required for proper segmentation. Mutations in Ce cause the elimination of the posterior half and anterior margin of each segment. The complementation pattern of ciD and Ce alleles is complicated; certain alleles complement fully while others do not. We have isolated a series of translocations which have breakpoints within the ciD gene. These mutations also disrupt Ce2 function, indicating that ciD and Ce2 are intimately associated. We have also studied the maternal contribution of the wild-type gene product of the ciD and Ce genes by pole cell transplants. These experiments suggest that there is no maternal contribution of the ciD+ and Ce+ gene products, and that they are not required for oogenesis. Thus, it appears that the ciD and Ce loci may represent a gene complex that is activated during zygotic development and is required for the proper formation of segments.
Expression of bcr and bcr-abl fusion transcripts in normal and leukemic cells.	The translocation of the c-abl oncogene from chromosome 9 to the bcr gene on chromosome 22 in cases of Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) generates an aberrant bcr-abl fusion transcript which may be intimately related to the pathogenesis of CML. Because factors controlling normal bcr expression might also be involved in the expression of this aberrant bcr-abl transcript, we studied the patterns of expression of the normal bcr gene in different cell types. We found that the normal bcr gene was expressed in many different types of human cells. Moreover, the bcr gene was evolutionarily conserved, and homologous bcr genomic sequences and RNA transcripts were readily detected in chick tissue. The highest level of bcr expression in chick tissue was in brain tissue, the lowest level was in liver tissue, and a truncated bcr mRNA was noted in chick testes. Normal bcr transcripts, in addition to the aberrant bcr-abl hybrid transcripts, have been found in all Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML cells studied to date. Within a given CML sample, the relative amounts of normal bcr RNA and aberrant bcr-abl RNA were similar. In addition, the normal bcr and the aberrant bcr-abl hybrid transcripts demonstrated similarly prolonged half-lives compared with that of the normal abl-related transcripts in CML cells. These findings suggest that in CML cells, similar cellular mechanisms control the steady-state levels of both the normal bcr and the bcr-abl fusion RNAs.
A novel Y/13 familial translocation.	A novel Y/13 translocation was discovered in a female fetus during amniocentesis. The familial translocation is present in a phenotypically normal female sibling and in the father who also possesses a pericentric inversion. Karyotype of the father is 46,XY,-13,+der(13)t(Y;13)(q12;p12),inv(22)(p13q12.1).
Pachytene analysis in a 17;21 reciprocal translocation carrier: role of the acrocentric chromosomes in male sterility.	Pachytene analysis was undertaken in an infertile male, heterozygous for a 17;21 reciprocal translocation. The quadrivalent was identified by its configuration and chromomere pattern. A non-random association was found between the quadrivalent and the sex vesicle in 77% of the pachytene nuclei analysed. In 13.1% of the cells the contact with the sex vesicle was established by the terminal chromomere of the two chromosomes 21; in 63.9% of the cells, the entire region of the breakpoints was completely hidden by the sex vesicle. In some nuclei asynapsis was found in the region of the breakpoints. The nature of the contact between the quadrivalent and the sex vesicle is discussed in this paper. It is proposed that the acrocentric chromosome favours the contact between the quadrivalent and the sex vesicle, and increases the risk of sterility in male carriers of Robertsonian translocations and of reciprocal translocations involving one acrocentric chromosome.
An azoospermic male with reciprocal translocation t(1;15) (q11;p11).	The authors report on a case of 1;15 translocation and request contact with any colleagues who have observed similar cases.
Hydatidiform mole: parental chromosome aberrations in partial and complete moles.	The relationship between parental constitutional chromosome abnormalities and the development of hydatidiform mole was evaluated in series from four institutions. Karyotype analysis was performed on blood samples from 237 patients with a pathological diagnosis of complete mole and 217 of their spouses. One patient was found to have a constitutional balanced translocation, t(11;18), while one spouse was found to have a balanced translocation, t(4;20). Among 125 patients with partial mole and 106 of their spouses, one male was found to be a translocation carrier, t(13;14). No significant increase in the frequency of translocations in the parents of complete moles was found in any of the series considered separately or together. Data from the combined series show no evidence of constitutional parental chromosome aberrations as an aetiological factor in the development of molar pregnancies.
Partial trisomy 2p.	A 4-year-and-10-month-old girl was referred to the Child Development Center, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island, USA, for evaluation because of mental retardation. She was found to have short stature, congenital heart disease and dysmorphic facial features. A chromosome analysis revealed an unbalanced translocation with trisomy of the distal part of the short arm of chromosome 2 (2p21----2pter). A balanced reciprocal translocation was identified in the maternal karyotype 46,X,t(X;2)(q28;p21). The phenotype of partial trisomy 2p is discussed.
Deletion mapping of the testis determining locus with DNA probes in 46,XX males and in 46,XY and 46,X,dic(Y) females.	Eleven Y-specific DNA probes hybridizing with DNA from one or more 46,XX males were isolated from a recombinant phage DNA library constructed from flow sorted human Y chromosomes. Two probes hybridized with DNA from nine out of eleven, i.e. greater than 80% of these 46,XX males. The relative frequency of hybridization of the probes in the 46,XX males and in a 46,X,dic(Y) female, together with in situ hybridization data, allowed mapping of the probes on Yp in relation to a putative testis determining locus. Several of those probes were also absent in a 46,XY female, further refining a model for ordering the probes on Yp. The DNA of one XX male hybridized both with probes from Yp and probes from proximal Yq (excluding the pericentral region). This suggests that complex translocations may occur into the DNA of 46,XX males that involve not only parts of Yp but also parts of Yq.
Translocation of the nucleolus organizer region to the human X chromosome.	We report the unique finding of a satellited X chromosome in a woman with Turner syndrome and a mosaic karyotype 45,X/46,X,mar(X)(sat,QFQ55),var(21)(sat,QFQ55). In PHA-stimulated lymphocytes and in lymphoblast culture, the satellited X chromosome was consistently late replicating. The translocated nucleolus organizer region (NOR) genes in the stalk of the satellite, however, remained transcriptionally active, and an unusual, late-replicating band was seen at the distal end of Xp. Analysis of fibroblast clones containing the satellited X chromosome suggests that the mar(X) is relatively stable.
Ultrastructural analysis of chromosome translocation-induced neural tube defects.	Neural tube closure defects occurred in 33% of the embryos obtained from matings of male mice heterozygous for a reciprocal chromosome translocation (T(2;4)1Sn) with normal female CFLP mice. Light and electron microscopic observations of neuroepithelium and mesenchyme in affected embryos indicated two distinct types of anomalies occurred. The first consisted of neuroepithelial hypertrophy and neural tube closure defects. These defects most frequently affected the midbrain and hindbrain, but occasional defects of the lumbosacral neural tube were also observed. Unlike the highly organized, pseudostratified neuroepithelium in control embryos, neuroepithelial cells became stratified and formed cell islands with secondary lumina within the wall of the neural tube. The second condition was associated with a reduction in neuroepithelial thickness, considerable neuroepithelial and neural crest cell death, basal lamina alterations and premature invasion of the neuroepithelium by subjacent endothelial cells. In both cases, the cephalic mesenchyme cells, rather than their normal stellate appearance, were markedly elongated in shape and reduced in area. The number of cell-cell contacts between mesenchymal cells was also reduced significantly. These results are discussed in light of recent theories regarding the role of mesenchyme and extracellular matrix in neurulation.
Partial trisomy 3p syndrome.	Two cousins with an unbalanced chromosome translocation (partial trisomy 3p) are described. Both children have a clinically recognizable syndrome of square facies with prominent cheeks, narrow bitemporal regions, psychomotor retardation and congenital heart disease. Extended family studies showed one other individual proven to have partial trisomy 3p karyotype, two retarded individuals with congenital heart disease who probably had it, and 14 balanced carriers of the translocation t(1;3)(q43;p21). This report confirms the characteristic clinical appearance of affected individuals and emphasizes the frequency in which congenital heart disease is the presenting feature of partial trisomy 3p. An additional 22 cases of partial 3p trisomy are reviewed.
Normal female carrier and affected male half-sibs with t(X;5)(q13;p15). Location of a gene determining male genital development.	A unique family in which half-brothers have a maternally derived t(X;5)(q13;p15) and similar genital malformations is described. This family provides evidence for a gene required for male genital development located at Xq13.
Synaptonemal complexes and chromosome chains in the rodent Ellobius talpinus heterozygous for ten Robertsonian translocations.	Synaptonemal complexes (SC) in four Ellobius talpinus males heterozygous for ten Robertsonian translocations were examined with an electron microscope using a surface-spreading technique. A total of 136 late zygotene and pachytene spermatocytes were examined. From one to three completely paired SC trivalents were found in each early pachytene spermatocyte. The lateral elements of the short arms of the acrocentric chromosomes in these trivalents were joined with an SC thus forming the third arm of the SC trivalent. At the same stage a few SC trivalents did not contain lateral elements in the pericentromeric region of the metacentric chromosomes and remained unpaired in this region up to mid pachytene. At zygotene and pachytene from two to eight SC trivalents were joined into chains due to formation of SCs between the short arms of acrocentrics of other SC trivalents. These chains are frequent at late zygotene, but are resolved during pachytene into individual trivalents. It is proposed that pairing and SC formation between the short arms of he acrocentric chromosomes results from the monosomy of the short arms and partial DNA homology between these heterochromatic regions. Since crossing over probably does not take place in these segments, the chromosomal chains may subsequently be corrected into trivalents by a dissolution of the SCs combining adjacent trivalents. The correction and disjoining of chains may not be effective in all cells. The cells in which the chains are retained are assumed to be arrested at the pachytene stage.
Ontogeny of an 8S androgen binding protein in rat liver cytosol.	Studies were performed to elucidate the ontogeny of a single class of androgen binding protein in male rat liver cytosol which exhibits characteristics of a ligand specific, high affinity (Kd = 2.3 nM), 8S-receptor capable of nuclear translocation. Detectable levels of receptor first appear at 45 days of age in the male and reach maximum concentration at 65 days. Barely detectable levels are seen in females throughout the duration of study (80 days). Gonadectomy in both sexes (65 days) and androgen treatment of oophorectomized females do not alter the normal development of sexual differentiation of the high affinity androgen receptor. After neonatal castration (2 days) and DES replacement however, receptor sites do not undergo differentiation and adult males exhibit female levels. Conversely, neonatal androgen replacement in 2-day castrates partially restores the level of binding sites to control males values (TP, 71%; DHT, 51%). Neonatal castration without replacement retards but does not fully eliminate sexual differentiation of levels of receptor sites in adult males. Likewise, neonatal androgen treatment in females results in a partial masculinization of binding sites. Following hypophysectomy, levels of receptor sites in females are similar to intact or hypophysectomized males; sexual differences in the adult are abolished. These studies suggest that sexual differentiation of specific liver cytosol androgen binding sites in the adult may be partially programmed at birth by testicular androgen and furthermore, adult sexual dimorphism is maintained through an inhibitory influence of the pituitary in the female.
Phenotypic characterization of Ewing sarcoma cell lines with monoclonal antibodies.	The histogenesis of Ewing sarcoma, the second most frequent bone tumor in humans, remains controversial. Four Ewing cell lines were analyzed by immunological methods. A panel of antibodies directed to T, B, and myelomonocytic markers gave negative results. Surface antigens recognized on Ewing cells were found to be related to the neuroectoderm lineage. Ganglioside GD2, a marker of neuroectodermal tissues and tumors, was present on all lines. These were also stained by the mouse monoclonal antibody HNK-1, which detects a carbohydrate epitope present on several glycoconjugates of the nervous system, including two glycoproteins, the myelin-associated glycoprotein and the neural cell-adhesion molecule (N-CAM), and an acidic glycolipid of the peripheral nervous system. The P61 monoclonal antibody, which reacts with a peptide moiety of N-CAM, and a rabbit antiserum, raised to purified mouse N-CAM and not recognizing the HNK-1-defined epitope, were also reactive. By contrast, all antibodies specific for hematopoietic cell surface antigens were totally negative. Besides these antigenic features, Ewing sarcoma cells are characterized by a specific t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation also observed in neuroepithelioma, a neuroectodermal tumor, suggesting a possible evolutionary related origin. The recent finding that the human N-CAM gene is located at the vicinity of the breakpoint on chromosome 11 indicates that it might be involved in genetic rearrangements occurring in this region.
Unexpected chromosomal abnormalities in prenatal diagnosis. 4 case reports with preservation of the pregnancy]	Four unexpected karyotypes were found in prenatal diagnosis: 47,XXX; 47,XXY; double reciprocal translocation; Yq-. Supplementary biological studies (including specific Y-DNA probes) are carried out in order to help in the parents' decision. No induced abortion was performed. The children are described after delivery.
Autosomal dominant piebaldism and mental retardation syndrome associated with a t(1;2) (p22.1;q36).	A syndrome of piebaldism and mild to moderate mental retardation was present in 3 sibs and their father. Besides, the disorder was segregating concordantly with a t(1;2) (p22.1;q36). It is concluded that the syndrome is due, either by gene breakage or dysfunction, to the translocation.
Trisomy 6qter resulting from a familial (6;10) (q23;q26) translocation.	An infant deceased at 2 months of age was found to have a 46,XY,-10, +der(10),t (6;10) (q23;q26) mat karyotype. Since the clinical findings were similar to those of the trisomy 6qter syndrome, the present observation agrees with the assignment of the 6q23----qter segment as the pathogenetic determiner of this entity.
An alternative method for isolating homozygotes of autosomal translocations in the mosquito Culex tarsalis.	An alternative pseudolinkage procedure for isolating homozygotes of autosomal translocations has been developed with the mosquito Culex tarsalis (Coquillet). The first step was to induce a translocation heterozygote in a population that was marked with recessive mutants. Interbred translocation heterozygotes produced translocation homozygotes that were phenotypically different from their translocation heterozygote and normal siblings. Thus, a translocation homozygote line of this species was selected and established in shorter time and with less effort than by prior pseudolinkage procedure.
Immunochemical analysis of the N-acetyl hexosaminidases in human-mouse hybrids made using a double selective system.	A human-mouse hybrid, DUR 4 (Solomon et al., 1976), containing a human X/15 translocation chromosome and also chromosome 5, among other human chromosomes, was used in a double selection system to obtain hybrids of four different types: X/15+ 5+, X/15- 5+, X/15+, 5-. Standard positive and negative selection systems were used for the X chromosome, and negative selection for chromosome 5 was done with diphtheria toxin. The assignment of HEXB and presently only when both the X/15 chromosome and chromosome 5 were present. A "HEXA-like" band segregated with chromosome 15 (or X/15) but independently of chromosome 5. This component, unlike HEXA, does not contain human HEXbeta antigen.
Lack of dosage compensation for an autosomal gene relocated to the X chromosome in Drosophila melanogaster.	Aldehyde oxidase activity has been measured in flies with the structural gene for this enzyme translocated to the X chromosome. These measurements are presented as experimental evidence that, in Drosophila melanogaster, an autosomal gene relocated to the X chromosome is not dosage compensated.
Partial deficiency of long arm of chromosome No. 11.	A child is presented with slight psychomotor retardation and few minor anomalies, in whom the cytogenetic analysis revealed a de novo translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 8 and 11, with deficiency of a small distal segment of 11q.
Cytogenetic localization of the acid phosphatase-1 gene in Drosophila melanogaster.	A translocation in which a segment of chromosome 3 is inserted into the Y chromosome was found to contain the acid phosphatase-1 gene (Acph-1). In flies hyperploid for that gene, acid phosphatase-1 levels are proportional to the dose of the gene. The locus is placed within the salivary chromosome subdivisions 99D and 99E on the basis of its inclusion in the translocated segment and on the previous placement of the claret locus. Several chromosomal rearrangements involving heterochromatic breakpoints and euchromatic breakpoints adjacent to 99D-99E were tested for possible postiion-effect variegation of acid phosphatase-1. No decrease in the synthesis of the electorphoretic subunit encoded by the relocated gene was observed within any of the rearrangements.
RP4 factor integration with E. coli chromosome]	Integration of R-factor RP4 with the chromosome of E. coli was studied with the use of replication thermosensitive mutant pEG1 of this factor. It was found that the frequency of integration of factor pEG1 containing the ampicillin transposone Tn1 with the chromosome of bacteria JC411 carrying transposone Tn1 previously inserted into it was very high and markedly exceeded that of its insertion into the same chromosome but not carrying this transposone. The frequency of factor pEG1 insertion into the chromosome of bacteria JC 1553 rec A defective with respect to genetic recombination was less than 2.10(-5) and did not depend on the presence of transposone Tn1 in it. Probably, insertion of factor RP4 into the bacterial chromosome may be realized through the rec A-dependent process of recombination between transposone Tn1 previously translocated into the chromosome and the same transposone contained in R-factor.
Effects of dose on the induction of  dominant-lethal mutations and heritable translocations with ethyl methanesulfonate in male mice.	Genetic damage by ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) in male mice was measured at doses ranging from 50 to 300 mg/kg with dominant-lethal mutations and reciprocal translocations as endpoints. No appreciable increase in dominant-lethal mutations was detected following a dose of 100 mg/kg. Dominant lethals induced by EMS were convincingly detected only after a dose of 150 mg/kg, but in the translocation experiment an increase in the genetic effect was detectable at the 50 mg/kg dose. It is likely that dominant lethals had also been induced at the 50 and 100 mg/kg doses, but were not detected due to the relative insensitivity of the dominant..lethal procedure. Thus, for detection of low levels of EMS-induced chromosome breakage, translocations are a much more reliable endpoint than are dominant-lethal mutations. A procedure for large-scale screening of induced translocations is described.-The dominant-lethal dose-response curve, plotted on the basis of living embryos as a percentage of the control value, is clearly not linear as it is markedly concave downward. Similarly, the translocation dose-response curve showed a more rapid increase in the number of translocations with dose than would be expected on the basis of dose-square kinetics. It is clear for both of these endpoints that the effectiveness of EMS in inducing chromosome breakage is proportionately much lower at low doses.
The manifestation of chromosome rearrangements in unordered asci of Neurospora.	Rapid, effective techniques have been developed for detecting and characterizing chromosome aberrations in Neurospora by visual inspection of ascospores and asci. Rearrangements that are detectable by the presence of deficient, nonblack ascospores in test crosses make up 5 to 10% of survivors after UV doses giving 10-55% survival. Over 135 rearrangements have been diagnosed by classifying unordered asci according to numbers of defective spores. (These include 15 originally identified or analyzed by other workers.) About 100 reciprocal translocations (RT's) have been confirmed and mapped genetically, involving all combinations of the seven chromosomes. Thirty-three other rearrangements generate viable nontandem duplications in meiosis. These consist of insertional translocations (IT's) (15 confirmed), and of rearrangements that involve a chromosome tip (10 translocations and 3 pericentric inversions). No inversion has been found that does not include the centromere. A reciprocal translocation was found within one population in nature. When pairs of RT's that involve the same two chromosome arms were intercrossed, viable duplications were produced if the breakpoints overlapped in such a way that pairing resembled that of insertional translocations (27 combinations).-The rapid analytical technique depends on the following. Deficiency ascospores are usually nonblack (W: "white") and inviable, while nondeficient ascospores, even those that include duplications, are black (B) and viable. Thus RT's typically produce 50% black spores, and IT's 75% black. Asci are shot spontaneously from ripe perithecia, and can be collected in large numbers as groups of eight ascospores representing unordered tetrads, which fall into five classes: 8B:0W; 6B:2W, 4B:4W, 2B:6B, 0B:8W. In isosequential crosses, 90-95% of tetrads are 8:0. When a rearrangement is heterozygous, the frequencies of tetrad classes are diagnostic of the type of rearrangement, and provide information also on the positions of break points. With RT's, 8:0 (alternate centromere segregation) = 0:8 (adjacent-1), 4:4's require interstitial crossing over in a centromere-break point interval, and no 6:2's or 2:6's are expected. With IT's, duplications are viable, 8:0 = 4:4, 6:2's are from interstitial crossing over, 0:8's or 2:6's are rare. Tetrads from RT's that involve a chromosome tip resemble those from IT's, as do tetrads from intercrosses between partially overlapping RT's that involve identical chromosome arms.-Because viable duplications and other aneuploid derivatives regularly occur among the offspring of rearrangements such as insertional translocations, care must be taken in selecting stocks, and original strains should be kept for reference.
Inhibition of polypeptide chain initiation in Escherichia coli by elongation factor G.	We have previously reported the isolation from E. coli of a specific inhibitor of polypeptide chain initiation that is rendered ineffective when active aminoacylation of transfer RNA is taking place; this is normally the case during natural messenger RNA translation. Surprisingly, the inhibitory activity appears to be a hitherto unrecognized property of the chain elongation factor G. The following hold for preparations purified for either translocase or inhibitor activity: (1) equal electrophoretic mobility on polyacrylamide gels; (2) equal specific activities for (a) inhibition of initiation, (b) translocation, and (c) ribosome-dependent, uncoupled GTPase; and (3) similar heat sensitivity of translocase and inhibitor activities in a temperature-sensitive E. coli mutant with an altered elongation factor G. Different sites are apparently involved in translocation and inhibition because the former, but not the latter, is sensitive to p-chloromercuribenzoate and fusidic acid.
Possible localization of Gc-System on chromosome 4. Loss of long arm 4 material associated with father-child incompatibility within the Gc-System.	A mentally retarded girl with a sporadically occurring B/F translocation was reexamined with new banding techniques. Chromosome material from the long arm of chromosome 4 was inserted into the long arm of chromosome 20. The segment 4q11 leads to q13 was lost. The formerly reported abnormal segregation of the Gc-system was verified. The localization of the Gc-locus on the lost segment cannot be ruled out.
Gnome and other effects of a small translocation in the mouse.	A semisterile F1 male mouse from an X-ray experiment produced about 25 percent lethal gnome young in outcrosses. These animals were about half normal size, with short tail and small eyes, and died at birth. Surviving progeny were of four classes: 1) like the sire, 2) semisterile, 3) normal, and 4) gnome-producing, but not semisterile. Two independent reciprocal translocations have been identified from the original male, one of the classic type giving semisterile heterozygotes and involving chromosomes 5 and 15. The second translocation seems to be very small, giving the gnome type as one duplication-deficiency product, and the other unbalanced type seeming to pass for normal, although large body size and occasional agnathism may be produced. The small translocation has been found linked with the loci of v (waltzing) and Sl (steel) on chromosome 10. Cytological study has not revealed obvious structural changes. The translocation is now maintained in the homozygous state. The designation T(10;?)2Ho is proposed.
Meiotic studies in mice carrying the sex reversal (Sxr) factor.	A sex reversal factor (Sxr) that causes mice having apparently normal X chromosomes to become phenotypically male is transmitted in an autosomal pattern. The origin of the Sxr factor is still unknown. It seems most likely that it has originated from an autosomal gene mutation or is the result of a translocation of part of the Y chromosome to one of the autosomes. Chromosomes from four XY and six XO mice carrying this sex reversal factor were examined in the diakinesis stage of meiosis. The following unusual observations were noted: (1) in XY males carrying the Sxr factor, the X and Y chromosomes were separated more often than in controls. (2) The Y chromosome tends to be closer to an autosome when the X and Y are separate than when the X and Y are attached. (3) A chromosome fragment was present in 4/226 cells from two XO males and a single cell from an XY, Sxr carrier. Although there is no direct evidence, these observations seem to favor the possibility that the Sxr factor involves a chromosomal rearrangement rather than a single gene mutation.
Cytogenetics of recurrent abortions.	Chromosome banding studies were carried out on both partners of 37 couples who had had two or more spontaneous abortions. Three patients had chromosome disorders; one was a triple-X female and the other two (one male and one female) were t(13;14) translocation carriers. Review of the literature indicates that the over-all frequency of major chromosome disorders in couples with repeated abortions is 2.6%. About three-fourths of these disorders are reciprocal and Robersonian translocations.
A further case of a 22;22 Robertsonian translocation associated with recurrent abortions.	A case of 22;22 Robertsonian translocation, identified in the husband of a woman who had five early abortions, is reported.
Familial Y/22 translocation in a woman.	A phenotypically normal 35-year-old woman who had a malformed fetus was found to have a Y/22 translocation. One brother as well as a sister and her three children also have the Y/22 chromosome while another sister lacks it. The problem raised by the presence of this translocated chromosome for genetic counseling, especially for prenatal diagnosis, is emphasized.
Non-random X-chromosome inactivation in mouse X-autosome translocation embryos--location of the inactivation centre.	X-chromosome inactivation was investigated cytologically using the modified Kanda method which differentially stains inactive X-chromosome material at metaphase in balanced 13 1/2-day female embryos heterozygous for four X-autosome rearrangements, reciprocal translocations T(X;4)37H, T(X;11)38H and T(X;16)16H (Searle's translocation) and the insertion translocation Is(7;X)1 Ct (Cattanach's translocation). In all cases non-random inactivation was found. In the reciprocal translocation heterozygotes only one translocation product ever showed Kanda staining. In addition in a proportion of cells from T(X;4)37H, T(X;11)38H and Is(7;X)1Ct the Kanda staining revealed differential staining of X-chromosome material and attached autosomal material within the translocation product. In a study of 8 1/2-day female embryos doubly heterozygous for Searle's translocation and Cattanach's translocation two unbalanced types of embryo were found. In one type of unbalanced female embryo of the karyotype 40(X(7)/X16;16/16) no inactivated X-chromosomal material is found. A second unbalanced type of female embryo, of the presumptive karyotype 40(X(7)/XN;16X/16) was found in which two inactivated chromosomes were present in the majority of metaphase spreads. A simple model for the initiation of X-chromosome inactivation based on the presence of a single inactivation centre distal to the breakpoint in Searle's translocation explains these findings.
The parental origin of the extra chromosome 21 in Down's syndrome]	The parental origin of the extra chromosome 21 and the meiotic failure involved were traced in 100 patients with Down syndrome and the relation with parental age was studied. In 20% of the cases the extra chromosome appeared to be of paternal origin (half of which caused by a nondisjunction at meiosis I, the remaining at meiosis II). In 80% the extra chromosome was of maternal origin (two thirds caused by a nondisjunction at meiosis I, one third at meiosis II). A significant increase of maternal age was only found in mothers who had the nondisjunction at meiosis II. In contrast, in fathers who experienced the nondisjunction at meiosis II the mean age appeared to be low. The possible causes of these phenomena are discussed.
Karyotypic progression in human tumors.	Karyotypic progression may be viewed in at least two ways. One approach seeks evidence for increasing and progressive deviation from the normal chromosome pattern in tumors. The clearest examples, found in some leukemias, are those in which successive karyotypic changes are superimposed on an already aberrant cell population. Evidence of chromosomal progression within solid tumors is far less frequent, possibly because the tumors themselves are at a relatively late stage in their evolution. An alternative approach, therefore, attempts to correlate the extent of karyotypic deviation with other aspects of tumor progression. Recent data, based on classical cytogenetic analyses and flow cytometry, are presented to determine relationships between karyotype and specific origin and morphology of tumors. The predominant theme which emerges, not surprisingly, is that the more deviant chromosome patterns are associated with other measures of increased biologic malignancy. What is surprising is the degree to which these properties are expressed in primary tumors and the relative lack of evidence for further karyotypic evolution with recurrence or metastasis. Examples of genetic instability, evolution through polyploidy, gene amplification, and selection for specific chromosomal rearrangement are found in populations of premalignant and malignant human cells. There is increasing recognition of the importance of tumor-specific chromosome aberrations in the stepwise progression from the normal to the fully neoplastic cell.
Transitory leukemoid reaction with regressive clonal course in a mongoloid newborn infant]	A neonate with Down's syndrome presented with partial blast infiltration that spontaneously regressed without relapse at age 6 months. Sequential cytogenetic studies of cells in blood and bone marrow initially showed presence of a clone with 46 chromosomes and reciprocal translocation of chromosomes 5 and 7. This clone and the hematologic abnormality later disappeared simultaneously. Two explanations may be suggested: a defect in the maturation of normal blasts due to abnormal environment in the bone marrow, or an intrinsic abnormality of hematopoietic cells. The case reported would favor the second hypothesis.
Epstein-Barr virus-positive Burkitt's lymphoma in a German woman during pregnancy.	A fatal case of a Burkitt's lymphoma which occurred in a 34-year-old German woman during pregnancy is described. Nearly all organs showed either diffuse or nodular infiltration by tumor cells. Placenta and fetus were free of detectable tumor tissue. The patient had extremely high antibody titers (1 : 2056), both against Epstein-Barr virus capsid antigen (VCA) and the early antigen complex (EA). Within the tumor cells the Epstein-Barr virus-specific nuclear antigen EBNA and viral DNA was detected. A cell line established from a tumor biopsy displayed a translocation involving chromosomes 2 and 8. The role of Epstein-Barr virus in the development of Burkitt's lymphoma is discussed.
RNA-tumorviruses, oncogenes, and their possible role in human carcinogenesis.	The detection and characterization of oncogenes via RNA tumor viruses (or retroviruses) and the recognition of their location at breakpoints of chromosomal translocations which are frequently found in certain human neoplasms has promoted present understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying carcinogenesis. Oncogenes are cellular genes which can be transduced by RNA tumorviruses and induce malignant transformation under experimental conditions in vivo and in vitro. A role of retroviruses in human leukemogenesis is suggested by epidemiological observations and by the isolation of such viruses from several human T-cell leukemias and lymphomas (human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus or HTLV) as well as by biochemical association of retroviral markers with human leukemias. A role of HTLV has been suggested also in a human immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In view of the well known role of many factors in carcinogenesis the concept of carcinogenesis as a multistep process as well as the concept of cocarcinogenesis and the role of cofactors other than viruses, such as radiation and chemicals, aging, hormones, graft vs host reaction, environmental factors etc., will have to be carefully considered.
Sequence of the murine and human cellular myc oncogenes and two modes of myc transcription resulting from chromosome translocation in B lymphoid tumours.	The 15;12 chromosome translocation in murine plasmacytomas and the 8;14 in human Burkitt lymphomas often link the cellular myc oncogene to the locus for constant regions of immunoglobulin heavy chains (CH locus). To clarify how and why c-myc translocation occurs, we have sequenced the mouse and human c-myc genes and correlated c-myc transcription with c-myc rearrangement. Both genes comprise three exons; the second and third encode the myc polypeptide, which is conserved between mammals and birds, particularly in its more basic C-terminal half. Southern blots showed that four of 12 Burkitt lines have c-myc linked near CH switch regions and two near the joining region (JH) locus. Hence, immunoglobulin recombination machinery may participate in translocation, although the common myc breakpoint region around exon 1 does not resemble a switch region. Tumours with breakpoints just 5' to exon 1, or distant from c-myc, had normal c-myc mRNAs of 2.25 and 2.4 kb, which differ at their 5' ends, while tumours with breakpoints within exon 1 or intron 1 had altered c-myc mRNAs (2.1-2.7 kb in Burkitt lines), initiated within intron 1. Both types of mRNAs probably yield the same polypeptide. Since the untranslocated c-myc allele was generally silent, translocation to the CH locus must induce constitutive c-myc expression. The presence of c-myc mRNA in immortal but non-tumorigenic lymphoblastoid cell lines may implicate c-myc in an immortalization step.
Activation of the c-myc gene by translocation: a model for translational control.	We have shown that the human cellular oncogene c-myc is composed of three exons and is transcribed from two initiation sites separated by 175-base-pair DNA in HeLa cells. For both resulting mRNA species, exon 1 composes the 5' untranslated region and the initiator methionine is located 16 base pairs down-stream from the 5' splice acceptor of exon 2. In a non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Manca, harboring a t(8; 14) translocation, c-myc gene is broken within intron 1, and its exons 2 and 3 are translocated to a site between the heavy chain joining region cluster and C mu-coding DNA segment of the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. The translocated c-myc gene is transcribed from points within intron 1 but is apparently still translated from the same methionine codon as the mRNA from the unrearranged c-myc gene. The nucleotide sequence of the c-myc gene shows that a region of exon 1 is highly complementary to a region of exon 2. Thus the mRNA from the untranslocated c-myc gene, as opposed to that of the translocated c-myc gene, could form a stable stem-loop structure (delta Go = -90 kcal/mol; 1 cal = 4.184 J) where the initiator AUG would be located within the loop. In view of the bind-and-scan model for the initiation of eukaryotic translation, we propose that such a secondary structure will severely hinder the translation. We further propose that the c-myc gene is often activated by translocation through the escape from such a translational suppression.
Haplodiploid gene expression in maize and its detection.	A method for the demonstration of the gametophytic origin of genetic variability in maize is described. For genes coding dimeric or multimeric enzymes, haploid expression can be demonstrated by means of translocations between A and B chromosomes (TB-A), which make it possible to obtain hyperploid pollen grains, partially diploid and heterozygous for electrophoretic mobility. Comparison of the electrophoretic pattern of this pollen type (three bands) and that of normal grains produced by a heterozygous F/S plant (two bands only) reveals haploid transcription of the monomeric forms. The procedure was tested on ADH-1 and used to demonstrate haploid expression for GOT-1. The data obtained suggest, moreover, that the reduction in male gamete transmission of duplications may be due to differences in pollen competitive ability rather than to processes affecting microspore maturation.
Trisomy 6q22 leads to 6qter due to maternal 6;21 translocation. Case report review of the literature.	Partial trisomy for the long arm of chromosome 6, involving 6q22 leads to 6qter, was observed in a 2-month-old male infant. The mother was 6q;21p translocation carrier. A review of the previously published cases with trisomies of different 6q segments suggests that the critical segment responsible for the clinically recognizable phenotype of 6q trisomy seems to be limited to bands 6q26 and/or 6q27.
The fate of DNA satellites I, II, III and ribosomal DNA in a familial dicentric chromosome 13:14.	In a family with a stable dicentric 13:14 translocation chromosome, the distribution of DNA sequences complementary to satellite DNAs I, II and III and ribosomal RNA were studied. The translocation chromosome showed a loss of sequences complementary to all three satellite DNAs, located in the short arms of the acrocentric chromosomes, but slightly more of the sequences complementary to satellite I were retained than of the other two satellite DNAs. The fact that material was lost from all three satellites indicates that they are not present as single discrete blocks in these chromosomes, when we would expect to find the distal sequences lost and the proximal ones retained, but consist of interspersed blocks with each sequence represented by more than one, and probably several blocks. There was a total loss of ribosomal DNA from the nucleolar organiser regions of the chromosomes involved in the 13:14 translocation, but an interesting finding was the presence of extra ribosomal DNA and satellite DNAs I, II and III in one chromosome 22 which was found in seven out of nine individuals of the family with the 13:14 translocation, and in only one of five individuals without the translocation. There may be a compensatory mechanism present when certain sequences are elminated during chromosomal rearrangements. The relationship of such mechanisms to reproductive fitness is discussed.
Partial trisomy 18 in a family with a translocation (18;21)(q21;q22).	A family is described in which 2 sibs had similar congenital abnormalities. Chromosome investigation of the mother and another child disclosed they were carriers of a translocation t(18;21)(q21;q22). The karyotype of one of the abnormal infants was determined and was found to be consistent with partial trisomy 18,46,XY,-21,+der (21),t(18;21) ((18pter leads to 18q21::21q22 leads to 2 lqter)mat.
De novo simultaneous reciprocal translocation and deletion.	A female infant with severe mental retardation, general hypotonicity, and a history of generalised oedema, cyanosis, heart murmur, and nystagmus in the first days of life was found to have both a translocation and a deletion. Her karyotype was 46,XX,del(21)t(18;21)(18p ter leads to 18q11::21q21 leads to 21qter;21pter leads to 21q11::18q11 leads to 18q ter). The karyotype of both parents was normal. The proposita is the result of a three break point exchange and is monosomic for part of the dark band q11 q21 of chromosome 21. It is suggested that in cases with mental retardation and apparent balanced de novo reciprocal translocation a small undetected deletion in one of the chromosomes involved in the translocation could explain the mental retardation.
Y autosome translocation and complex chromosome rearrangement in cri du chat syndrome.	An unbalanced Y autosome translocation t(5;Y) and an apparently balanced translocation t(2;13) are identified with the Q and R banding in a 7-year-old boy with severe encephalopathy and a multiple malformation syndrome. At birth, the clinical diagnosis of 'cri du chat' syndrome based on the characteristic crying was not confirmed after karyotyping, using conventional staining techniques.
Reproductive hormone studies in three subjects with a Robertsonian translocation.	The reproductive hormone function was investigated in three subjects, two brothers and one unrelated patient, with a Robertsonian translocation, who had come to us because of infertility. Basal levels of LH, FSH, testosterone, 17-beta-estradiol and prolactin were repeatedly measured by radioimmunoassays. In addition, clomiphene citrate, synthetic LH-RH, hCG and TRH tests were carried out. Karyotypes complemented by G-banding and C-banding, repeated semen analyses, and testicular biopsies were also obtained. The karyotype of all three subjects was 45, XY-13, -14, +t(13; 14) (p11; q11). Semen analyses showed oligozoospermia, and reduced or reduced/normal sperm motility. In addition, a high percentage of atypical forms was present in all three subjects. Reproductive hormone measurements in our three patients were substantially normal. Only one of the two brothers exhibited slightly low LH and testosterone levels. Both brothers also had elevated estradiol levels. Gonadotropin and testosterone responses to respective provocative stimuli, as well as prolactin elevation following TRH, were normal. In conclusion, the semen abnormalities observed in these three subjects with Robertsonian translocation appear to be responsible for their impaired fertility. However, the reason why some carriers of the same translocation are fertile and some others are subfertile or infertile remains unclear. It might be speculated that an individual genetic variability is responsible for different degrees of spermatogenic failure, accompanied, in more severe cases, also by reproductive hormone disorders.
Translocation of an immunoglobulin kappa locus to a region 3' of an unrearranged c-myc oncogene enhances c-myc transcription.	We have studied somatic cell hybrids between mouse myeloma and JI Burkitt lymphoma cells carrying a t(2;8) chromosome translocation for the expression of human kappa chains. and for the presence and rearrangements of the human c-myc oncogene and kappa chain genes. Our results indicate that the c-myc oncogene is unrearranged and remains on the 8q+ chromosome of JI cells. Two rearranged C kappa genes were detected: the expressed allele on normal chromosome 2 and the excluded kappa allele that was translocated from chromosome 2 to the involved chromosome 8 (8q+). The distribution of V kappa and C kappa genes in hybrid clones retaining different human chromosomes indicated that C kappa is distal to V kappa on 2p and that the breakpoint in this Burkitt lymphoma is within the region carrying V kappa genes. High levels of transcripts of the c-myc gene were found when it resided on the 8q+ chromosome but not on the normal chromosome 8, demonstrating that translocation of a kappa locus to region distal to the c-myc oncogene enhances c-myc transcription.
Hereditary malformation of the toes and fingers in a family with double translocation heterozygosity.	A hereditary malformation of the metatarsophalangeal joints, called here "tear drop" deformity, and a cut off appearance of the distal phalanges of the toes is described in a family with double translocation t (7; 12), t (2; 6) heterozygosity. A bracydactyly E was also found. These disorders seemed unrelated to the chromosomal aberration.
Assignment of the gene locus for human phosphoglucomutase 3 to chromosome 6q12-qter.	Segregation of human PGM3 has been analyzed in somatic cell hybrids between mouse A9 cells and human fibroblasts carrying a reciprocal translocation: 46,XX, t(6;7) (q12;p14). The enzyme marker segregates with the 7p+ chromosome indicating that the PGM3 gene is located on 6q12 greater than qter.
Proliferation, differentiation, and cytogenetics of chronic leukemic B lymphocytes cultured with mitomycin-treated normal cells.	Lymphocytes from 6 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia of the B-cell variety (B-CLL) were cultured with equal numbers of mitomycin-treated mononuclear cells from normal blood. When stimulated with pokeweed mitogen (PWM), phytohemagglutinin (PHA), or the tumor-promoting agent, phorbol tetradecanoyl-acetate (TPA), the CLL cells proliferated actively by day 3 or 4 of culture, and in four cases, differentiated to significant numbers of immunoglobulin-containing cells. Chromosome studies on the proliferating lymphocytes demonstrated a cytogenetically abnormal clone in three patients, including two with a 14q+ marker chromosome and two with a translocation involving the short arm of chromosome 9. One patient had a translocation from 22q to 14q, producing a Philadelphia chromosome as well as the 14q+ marker. The results indicate that the neoplastic lymphocytes of B-CLL may proliferate and differentiate when appropriately stimulated in vitro, and that chromosomally abnormal clones are not uncommon. With several techniques now available for successful short-term culture of B-CLL lymphocytes, there is opportunity for better understanding of the cellular alterations in this disease.
Genetic control of Blattella germanica]	Based on a literature survey, the possibilities of a genetic control of the German cockroach (Blattella germanica) are shown. First, an oversight is given on the cytogenetics of the German cockroach, including some important mutations. Then the control methods by genetic mechanisms are explained. This chapter begins with analysing the relevant biological pecularities. In control measures, the dominant lethal mutations (induced by rays rich with energy and by chemosterilants) have only a chance if they can be applied in the scope of autosterilization of natural populations. Reciprocal translocations may expect maximum consideration in the future of the control of the German cockroach. Some of these are already available in the heterozygote state. But the establishment of homozygous strains was not yet successful up to now. The possibilities of the application of translocation-heterozygotes are discussed. Such mutant strains of cockroaches which bear several translocations in the heterozygous state, offer the most promising way of control. This may even include the population's eradication. A long-lasting regulation of the population may be achieved with the introduction of insects mutated in this manner even in the case if a complete eradication is not attainable. It might be expected that also other genetic mechanisms may contribute, in future, to the improvement of cockroach control. Such mechanisms may be conditional lethal factors, sex distortions, and others more.
Rearrangements involving four chromosomes in a child with congenital abnormalities.	This report describes a complex structural rearrangement between chromosomes X and 1 and a 7;13 translocation (together involving six break points) in a child with multiple congenital defects. Both parents showed a normal chromosome complement, suggesting that the changes may have originated either in a gametic nucleus or at a very early stage of zygotic development.
A homologous tandem translocation [45,XX,-13,-13,+t(13;13) (q12;q34)].	Chromosomal investigation of a young girl with mental and motor retardation and congenital anomalies revealed a translocation between both members of pair No. 13. Banding analysis showed that the translocation was "tandem," leading to monosomy for segments in both the long and short arms of No. 13.
Cytologic evidence for preferential inactivation of the paternally derived X chromosome in XX mouse blastocysts.	A total of 941 mouse blastocysts obtained from two types of crosses in which one of parents carried Cattanach's X/autosome translocation was studied cytogenetically by quinacrine mustard fluorescence. The rearranged X (Xt) and the normal X (Xh) were distinguished by size. Karyotype analysis was successful in 721 embryos, of which 205 were heterozygous for Cattanach's translocation. A single heterochromatic and brightly fluorescent X chromosome was identified in 154 metaphase spreads from 89 blastocysts consisting of 32--96 cells. The paternally derived X chromosome (Xp) was heterochromatic in 87% and 88% of the informative cells from the crosses XnXn x XtY and XtXn x XnY, respectively. This preferential choice of Xp at the blastocyst stage might have an important bearing upon the preponderance of cells with an inactive Xp in the chorion and yolk-sac splanchnopleure.
Comparative analysis of karyotypes in European shrew species. I. The sibling species Sorex araneus and S. gemellus: Q-bands, G-bands, and position of NORs.	The karyotypes of two closely related species of the genus Sorex (Mammalia, Insectivora) were compared with each other by G- and Q-banding techniques and by Ag-AS staining (GOODPASTURE and BLOOM, 1975). By comparing the G-banded karyotypes, it could be ascertained that the basic differences in karyotype between the two species lie in three pericentric inversions, three paracentric inversions, and one reciprocal translocation. This is in near agreement with FORD and HAMERTON (1970), who assumed that both species differ by three pericentric inversions and one tandem translocation. Furthermore, the karyotype of S. araneus (race C) presented by HALKKA et al. (1974) has been compared with the S. araneus of the present report. Considering the species with respect to karyotypic evolution, it is supposed that S. araneus and S. gemellus derive from a common ancestor.
BSu restriction of DNA from cases exhibiting sex-chromosome abnormalities.	The restriction endonuclease BSu, an isoschizomer of the enzyme HaeIII, cleaves human DNA to yield classes of fragments that are characteristic of the DNA of individuals having a Y chromosome. The fragments concerned are therefore diagnostic of the presence of Y-chromosome DNA and have been studied here with the intention of confirming the origin of various translocations thought, on other grounds, to involve the Y. The absence of the fragments from DNA of a case exhibiting absence of the fluorecent region of Yq suggests that the DNA concerned maps predominantly to Yq. Normal gender in the absence of the BSu fragments indicates that they do not function in sex determination.
Cytogenetic aspects of phylogeny in the Bovidae. I. G-banding.	An extensive G-banding study of karyotypes of 12 species of Bovidae has been undertaken in an attempt to trace homologies and patterns of evolution of karyotype phenotypes throughout the family. G-banding profiles revealed a considerable degree of chromosome-arm homology throughout the group, which also extended into the related superfamilies, the Giraffoidea and Cervoidea. The conservation of banding patterns in chromosome arms strongly indicates that Robertsonian translocation type rearrangements have provided the major source of interspecies karyotype differences, with inversions and reciprocal and tandem translocations providing relatively minor contributions. Examples of individuals carrying newly arisen Robertsonian translocations are not infrequent, and in one instance there was evidence that two similar rearrangements had arisen independently in two species. Despite the extensive changes in karyotype organization, subfamilies within the Bovidae were characterized by the presence of common rearrangements, and those involving autosomal pairs 11 and 12 of the ox, as well as the X chromosome, separate the Bovinae from the Caprinae and Hippotraginae.
Mitotic chiasmata and other quadriradials in mitomycin C-treated Bloom's syndrome lymphocytes.	Mitotic chiasmata and other quadriradials (QRs) were studied by Q-banding in mitomycin C-treated and untreated lymphocytes from two sibs with Bloom's syndrome. The frequency of chiasmata was very significantly increased by the mitomycin treatment in cells from both sibs. Chiasmata occurred throughout the chromosomes, but were favored in Q-dark regions, particularly at borders between dark and light regions (Kuhn, 1976). No significant difference was found in the distribution of chiasmata among chromosome regions in treated and untreated material. This differs from the reported action of mitomycin C on cultured lymphocytes of normal persons, where chiasmata are concentrated at secondary constrictions and centromeres. Adjacent counterparts to mitotic chiasmata, and chromatid translocations between non-homologous chromosomes, also occurred in the treated material, but with a much lower frequency than mitotic chiasmata. This again differs  from the effects of mitomycin C on lymphocytes of normal persons, where chiasmata account for 20% or less of total QRs.
Partial monosomy 13 and 21 due to a familial 13/21 translocation.	Two patients are described with a monosomy for the proximal part of the long are of chromosome 13 and for the distal part of the long arm of chromosome 21, due to an unbalanced 13/21 translocation.
A dynamic study in two new cases of X chromosome translocations.	The authors discuss the clinical and cytogenetic problems raised in two new cases of X-chromosome translocations. The first case involves a child who presented marked malformations at age 3 months. Chromosome analysis revealed the presence of a translocation between a 22 and X chromosome resulting in partial X monosomy and partial trisomy 22: 46,X,der(X),t(X:22)(q112;q13)mat. The balanced translocation form was detected in the mother. Dynamic study after 5-Brdu treatment revealed inactivation of the translocated X chromosome in the proband, while in the mother the normal X chromosome was inactivated. In addition to magnesium dependent hypocalcemia resulting from a specific absorption anomaly, Case 2 presented discrete malformations and psychomotor retardation. Chromosome analysis revealed an apparently balanced translocation between a 9 and X chromosome: 46,X,t(9;X)(q12;p22). Treatment with 5-Brdu demonstrated that the translocated X chromosome was inactivated but that inactivation did not extend to the translocated part of chromosome 9. Finally, a pericentric inversion of a 9 chromosome was detected in the father, grandfather, and brother of the proband.
Chromosomal aberrations in heavy smokers.	Lymphocyte chromosomes from 20 heavy smokers were analyzed from 48-h whole blood cultures for the frequency of dicentric chromosomes, ring chromosomes, and chromatid translocations. Compared to controls, these exchange type aberrations occurred more frequently in the smokers.
A balanced translocation t(11;16)(q13;p11), a cytogenetic study and an attempt at gene localization.	Members of three generations of a single family were examined and found to have a balanced translocation t(11;16)(q13;p11). Cytogenetic investigation and investigation of a number of gene markers is consistent with the current view that the Hp-alpha locus is situated in the proximity of band 16q22.
Chronic myeloid leukaemia and the Philadelphia translocation: do the c-sis oncogene and platelet-derived growth factor provide the link?	The study of cellular oncogenes and of chromosomal abnormalities in human tumours has, in several instances, suggested a link between a specific oncogene translocation and oncogenesis. It was recently suggested that the translocation of the c-abl gene (the human cellular homologue of the transforming sequence of Abelson murine leukaemia virus) from chromosome 9 to 22 in Philadelphia translocation, might have a role in the generation of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). We propose an alternative hypothesis and suggest that the translocation of another gene, c-sis, may be more important.
Mapping of the c-sis oncogene on human chromosome 22 with respect to the breakpoint associated with chronic myeloid leukaemia.	Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) cells are often characterized by the presence of a small chromosome 22, in which most of the q arm has been translocated to chromosome 9. Using cell hybrids containing different parts of chromosome 22 I have mapped the c-sis oncogene, which is known to be situated on chromosome 22, to a region distal to the CML breakpoint (22q112) and proximal to 22q13. This demonstrates that c-sis is translocated to chromosome 9 in CML cells.
Chromosome banding patterns of four species of bats, with special reference to a case of X-autosome translocation.	The karyotypes of 4 species of bats, Artibeus lituratus (Phyllostomatidae), Pipistrellus pipistrellus (Vespertilionidae), Pteropus alecto and P. giganteus (Pteropodidae), were studied after several banding techniques. For A. lituratus, in which an X-autosome translocation was observed, an analyse of the replication pattern in the rearranged chromosome was also made after BrdU incorporation.
"Pure" monosomy 21 pter leads to q21 in a girl born to a couple 46,XX,t(14;21)(p12;q22) and 46,XY,t(5;18)(q32;q22).	A two-year-old girl with a "pure" 21pter leads to q21 monosomy secondary to a 3:1 segregation of a maternal translocation t(14;21)(p12;q22) is described. The father's karyotype was 46,XY,t(5;18)(q32;q22). This observation permits to further delineate the 21q proximal monosomy syndrome and to comment the very rare finding of a couple in which both partners have different reciprocal translocations.
Reproductive risks for translocation carriers: cytogenetic study and analysis of pregnancy outcome in 58 families.	Here we report on studies of the reproductive risks for heterozygous carriers of chromosome translocations. Pregnancy outcome, breakpoints, mode of segregation of the translocated chromosomes, and resulting chromosome imbalance were analyzed in 58 families (46 with reciprocal and 12 with Robertsonian translocations) ascertained for birth of a malformed child, recurrent spontaneous abortion, or hypogonadism. These families include a total of 122 informative sibships. The analysis of the data, after correction for ascertainment bias, showed that the incidence of spontaneous abortion is nearly 50% in reciprocal and between 20 and 25% in Robertsonian translocation families ascertained for malformed child or recurrent abortion. The risk of malformed infants with unbalanced genome is approximately 6% among the liveborn offspring of reciprocal translocation carriers and 23% among the liveborn offspring of carrier mothers of t(14q21q). The distribution of the breakpoints on the chromosomes involved in reciprocal translocations ascertained through a malformed child is nonrandom, with an excess on chromosomes 5, 9, 13, and 15. The study of chromosome imbalance, expressed as gain or loss of a portion of genetic information relative to the total haploid autosome length (percent HAL), shows that among the common types of disjunction-segregation leading to unbalanced gametes, adjacent 1 seems to be the one producing on the average the least level of genome imbalance. This explains why it is the most frequently observed type of segregation giving rise to gametes from which subjects with a chromosome imbalance compatible with life can be generated.
Subsequent reproductive outcome in couples with repeated pregnancy loss.	While the role of cytogenetic study in couples with repeated pregnancy loss is well-established, little information is available for counseling these couples concerning future reproductive outcome. Couples evaluated by chromosome analysis for recurrent abortion between 1972 and 1979 were contacted by phone in 1981. Of those studied cytogenetically, 195 couples (50.1%) could be located, and information concerning outcome of subsequent pregnancies were obtained. Couples (91) with two consecutive pregnancy losses at the time of initial investigation had a 31.3% subsequent abortion rate, but most (68%) had at least one liveborn child. The rate of infertility following evaluation was slightly increased (18.7%), but that of prematurity (11.2%) and congenital anomalies (2.5%) was not. In contrast, couples with greater than or equal to 3 consecutive losses (84) experienced abortion in 45.7% of subsequent pregnancies, and only 54.8% of them eventually had a liveborn child. Again, the rate of infertility was increased (26.2%), but that of prematurity (10%) and congenital defects (3.2%) was not. Nine couples in which one individual was found to have a chromosome abnormality (two inversions and seven translocations) were considered separately. Of these, seven couples had nine liveborn offspring. Amniocentesis was performed in eight cases, with karyotypes showing a balanced translocation identical to that of the parent in 2. All children were phenotypically normal.
Multiple skeletal familial abnormalities associated with balanced reciprocal translocation 2;8(q32;p13).	A father and three of his offspring had skeletal abnormalities consisting of a short forearm, cubitus valgus, fusion of first and second cervical vertebrae, and cleft of L5 and S1. All four had a reciprocal, apparently balanced, translocation 2;8(q32;p13). Normal sibs had normal chromosomes. We conclude that this may be a rare instance of an autosomal dominant condition associated with a balanced chromosome translocation.
Ewing's sarcoma: transplantation in nude rat.	Eight Ewing's sarcoma, primary tumor or metastasis, have been transplanted in Nude Rats. These tumors grow slowly and only in female rats. One of them has been maintained for 13 months with 5 passages. It has conserved all the characteristics of the primary tumor, histologic and ultramicroscopic morphology, glycogen secretion and cytogenetic modification (11.22 translocation). The graft of Ewing's sarcoma to Nu/Nu rats is a valuable system to get more material in good condition to study the nature and the origin of Ewing's cells, to test the new chemotherapy trials and to prepare and test the monoclonal antibodies.
Inherited sex reversal in mice: identification of a new primary sex-determining gene.	We present evidence that the inbred mouse strain C57BL/6J (B6) differs from Mus domesticus (DOM) at a locus involved in gonad determination and development as well as at the testis-determining locus on the Y chromosome (Tdy). This newly identified gene is named testis-determining, autosomal-1 (tda-1). Although the inheritance of tda-1 suggests it is located on an autosome, its location on the X and Y chromosome in their pairing-recombination region is not excluded. When mice are homozygous for the C57BL/6J-derived tda-1 allele (tda-1B6) and carry the Y chromosome from M. domesticus, they develop as true hermaphrodites or, more rarely, as females. In contrast, when they are homozygous Tda-1DOM/Tda-1DOM or heterozygous Tda-1/DOMtda-1B6 and carry a B6-derived or M. domesticus-derived Y chromosome they develop as normal males. A simple genetic model is presented that integrates proposed steps in gonad determination and the results from genetic experiments reported here. In addition, arguments are presented for the existence of an ovary-determining gene.
Oncogenes and chromosomes.	Two tumors of B lymphocytes, murine plasmacytomas and human Burkitt's lymphoma, display characteristic chromosomal translocations. Molecular cloning studies have shown that these tumors have translocated an oncogene, called C'MYC, into the antibody gene locus. This oncogene translocation probably contributes to but is not sufficient for the occurrence of these tumors.
A novel Japanese Burkitt's lymphoma cell line, P32/Ishida, with a new variant chromosomal translocation (2;14).	A novel cultured cell line, P32/Ishida, was established from a Japanese 8-year-old boy with abdominal Burkitt's lymphoma. The P32/Ishida cells were proved to have immature B-cell phenotypes on the basis of immunological surface marker analysis: surface immunoglobulins (gamma, mu, kappa), Ia-like antigen, B1 antigen, and common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen were positive. A small amount of IgM, but no IgG, could be detected in both cell extract and culture supernate of P32/Ishida cells. Cytogenetic studies revealed that the P32/Ishida cells consisted of cells having three derivative karyotypes characterized by common marker chromosomes, dup(1), and 14q + due to a new variant chromosomal translocation (2;14), which has not been identified in usual Burkitt's cell lines. Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase activity were confirmed to be negative.
Cytometry of deoxyribonucleic acid content and morphology of mammalian sperm.	Because spermatogenesis is exquisitely sensitive to external influences, sperm can serve as a biological dosimeter. Advances in interpreting induced sperm abnormalities require a better understanding of sperm characteristics. This report reviews the application of several methods for automated, quantitative detection of shape changes, methods that are faster and more sensitive than conventional subjective techniques. Variability of sperm deoxyribonucleic acid content as a bioassay of genetic damage is explored, and limitations of the bioassay are discussed. New flow cytometric techniques that could lead to sexing mammalian sperm are examined.
Regional chromosomal localization of N-ras, K-ras-1, K-ras-2 and myb oncogenes in human cells.	The identification of transforming genes in human tumor cells has been made possible by DNA mediated gene transfer techniques. To date, it has been possible to show that most of these transforming genes are activated cellular analogues of the ras oncogene family. To better understand the relationship between these oncogenes and other human genes, we have determined their chromosomal localization by analyzing human rodent somatic cell hybrids with molecularly cloned human proto-oncogene probes. It was possible to assign N-ras to chromosome 1 and regionally localize c-K-ras-1 and c-K-ras-2 to human chromosomes 6pter-q13 and 12q, respectively. These results along with previous studies demonstrate the highly dispersed nature of ras genes in the human genome. Previous reports indicated that the c-myb gene also resides on chromosome 6. It has been possible to sublocalize c-myb to the long arm of chromosome 6 (q15-q21). The non-random aberrations in chromosomes 1, 6 and 12 that occur in certain human tumors suggest possible etiologic involvement of ras and/or myb oncogenes in such tumors.
Cytogenetic nomenclature.	The advantage of a standardized nomenclature is apparent in any discipline. A standardized method for designating carbon molecules in steroid chemistry facilitates communication in endocrinology; consistent staging methods permit comparison of data in oncology. Likewise, a standardized method for designating cytogenetic data facilitates communications in genetics. Therefore, investigators should adhere to the official recommendations summarized in this report.
Terminal chromosome attachments.	Descriptions are presented of four cases of attachment of chromosome material at the ends of normal chromosomes in Drosophila. Since no material appears to be missing from the polytene chromosomes and there are no ill effects to the organism in morphology, viability, or fertility when the chromosome is made homozygous, it is argued that the attachment occurred without the loss of any essential genetic material and that, in all probability, the break at the end of the chromosome occurred within the telomere of the chromosome. These cases may serve as a parallel to cases of apparent terminal breakage and reunion in certain rearrangements in man.
Translocation t (8; 21) and acute granulocytic leukemia: interpretation of normal mitoses]	Cytological and cytogenetic studies of nine acute granulocytic leukemia with t (8; 21) translocation were performed from the same bone marrow and blood cell samples. It was shown that the chromosome abnormality was restricted to leukemic cells and that normal metaphases were erythroblast mitoses. Using cell cultures in which only or mainly leukemic cells were able to divide permits easier detection of chromosomal aberrations. These results led us to postulate an inhibitory role of leukemic cells on the division of normal granulocytic cells.
Correlation between immunoglobulin light chain expression and variant translocation in Burkitt's lymphoma.	Burkitt's-type lymphomas-leukaemias (BL) are monoclonal proliferations of malignant B lymphocytes. Irrespective of whether they carry the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome, these tumour cells have been shown consistently to have one of the specific reciprocal chromosome translocations, t(8; 14), t(2; 8) or t(8; 22), involving the long arm of chromosome 8 (on 8q24) and chromosome 14, 2 or 22 (on 14q32, 2p12 and 22q11, respectively). The latter chromosomes have been shown recently to carry genes for immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chains, and kappa and lambda light chains, respectively. Furthermore, the localization of kappa light chains within 2pcen-2p13 encompasses the breakpoint observed in Burkitt's translocation (2p12). It was therefore considered of interest to determine whether the expression of immunoglobulin chains in BL cells is related to the type of chromosomal anomalies observed. We report here that there is a direct relationship between expression of immunoglobulin light chains and specific type of translocation: BL cells with t(8; 22) express lambda chains, whereas those with t(2; 8) express kappa chains.
Structural and numerical chromosome abnormalities in human malignant melanoma cell lines (author's transl)]	Characteristics and cytogenetic markers of 36 human malignant cell lines were studied. Structural abnormalities of chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 and 22 were the most frequent. Relative polysomy for chromosome 3, 7, 16, 19, 20, 22 and monosomy for chromosome 9 were observed. Each cell line contained structural and/or numerical abnormalities of chromosome 7, but structural abnormalities of this chromosome were only observed in cell lines derived from metastases; while only polysomy of chromosome 7 was observed in cell lines derived from primaries or local recurrences.
Two unrelated children with distal long arm deletion of chromosome 7: clinical features, cytogenetic and gene marker studies.	Two phenotypically abnormal, unrelated children with deletion of the distal segment of 7q (7q32 leads to pter) are described. In one instance the mother was the carrier of a balanced translocation between chromosomes 6 and 7, and in the second case the deletion was a de novo event. Their phenotype were compared to previously reported cases and found to have many non-specific clinical features in common. Gene marker studies for some of the genes tentatively localized to chromosome 7 showed no anomalous segregation. The Hageman coagulation factor (Factor XII) activity in both probands was normal, and heterozygosity for alleles of the Kidd blood group in the first proband excludes assignment of the Kidd locus to the distal portion of chromosome 7q.
The use of translocation-derived "marker-bivalents" for studying the origin of meiotic instability in female mice.	Female mice of two age groups, 3--4 and 11--14 months old, homozygous for the T(1;13)70H reciprocal mouse translocation were used for cytological observations of bivalents (in primary oocytes) and metaphase II chromosomes (in secondary oocytes). Special attention was given to the behavior of the long (131) and short (113) marker chromosomes. In primary oocytes, univalents were considered "true" or "opposite". The aged females showed an eight-folded increase in "true" univalent frequency for chromosomes 113 over the young ones. A nine-fold rise for nondisjunction with regard to this chromosome was observed. For the other chromosomes, these factors were 2 and 1.7, respectively. The absolute levels of nondisjunction remained low at old age (1.42% for chromosome 113, 1.22% for all other chromosomes). The long marker bivalent 131 was used for chiasma counts. No change in chiasma number with age was observed. It is argued that poorer physiological conditions within the maturing oocytes of older females are the major cause for both the increasing frequencies of "true" and "opposite" univalents and the increased incidence for nondisjunction.
Chromosomal abnormalities in acute promyelocytic leukaemia.	In 2 patients with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) an isochromosome for the long arm of chromosome 17 was seen in part of the bone marrow mitoses at diagnosis and relapse, respectively. In one of them, there was a t(15q+; 17q-) affecting one of the No. 15 chromosomes and both arms of the isochromosome. Thus the translocations must have occurred before (or simultaneously with) the formation of the isochromosome. This is the first example of t(15;17) out of 17 patients with APL studied in Finland.
Significance of a (4;11) translocation in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	This report describes a case of null cell congenital acute lymphoblastic leukemia associated with a (4;11) translocation. This chromosome abnormality is associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and probably more specifically with congenital acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A review of the literature is presented.
Distal 18q deletion without clinical findings of 18q- syndrome.	A de nova translocation of long arm of chromosome 3 to the distal third of long arm of 18 was detected in a 10 years old boy, whose phenotype has been somewhat affected. Although the translocation has resulted in loss of distal segment of 18q, clinically he bears little resemblance to 18q- syndrome.
Partial 4q duplication due to inherited der(13),t(4;13)(q26;q34)mat in a girl with a deficiency of factor X.	A girl with mental retardation had a partial trisomy 4q. The chromosome aberration originated from a maternal balanced translocation t(4;13)(q26;q34). The value of Factor X was half the normal value, raising the question of the location of a gene related to the production of Factor X on chromosome 4.
Acute myeloblastic leukemia following non-Hodgkin lymphoma in an adolescent. A report of a case with preleukemic syndrome, and review of the literature.	Reports of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia occurring after successful treatment of Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) are appearing with increasing frequency. Two years after completion of LSA2-L2 therapy for stage III, poorly differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma, a 16-year-old boy developed a preleukemic state characterized by a refractory macrocytic anemia with excess blasts, dyshematopoiesis, abnormal cluster:colony ratio on in vitro bone marrow culture, and acquired deficiencies of erythrocyte pyruvate kinase, triose phosphate isomerase, and adenylate kinase. Four months later acute myeloblastic leukemia was evident. The RNA index determined by flow cytofluorometry was increased. Four marker chromosomes were found and involved complex translocation of chromosomes 11 and 17 (t11;l17) in 100% of the cells, and chromosomes 4 (t4q;4) in 10% of the cells. A thorough literature search uncovered four other reports of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia occurring in children treated for NHL and a total of 58 cases in the adult and pediatric age groups. Over 50% of the patients had AML, were mean over 50 years of age, and were treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. It is anticipated that additional cases of second malignancies will be reported in this population of patients whose outlook for the curability of the primary malignancy is 75%.
Embryonic hemoglobins in man and other mammals.	This report attempts to review the present state of research on embryonic hemoglobins in humans and other mammals from a cytologic, molecular, and clinical point of view. In all mammals, the yolk sac is the site responsible for the "primitive" erythropoiesis, which produces an erythroid population characterized by peculiar cytologic features and globin gene expression. Morphological and molecular events that underlie prenatal erythropoiesis are described herein giving rise to questions regarding biology at large (i.e., the differential activity of genes capable of similar functions); molecular biology of eukaryotic genes (i.e., globin gene organization and structural subtleties); and clinical hematology (i.e., syndromes associated with the appearance of embryonic hemoglobins.
Non-random chromosomal changes involving chromosomes 6 and 7 in spontaneous rat immunocytomas.	G-banding analysis of seven Ig-secreting spontaneous rat immunocytomas showed a consistent translocation of the distal part of the q-arm of chromosome 7 to the telomeric end of chromosome 6. The breakpoints were assigned to q3.3 on chromosome 7 and q3.2 on chromosome 6. Previously, we found a similar translocation pattern in mouse plasmacytomas induced by different agents. The distal part of the q-arm of chromosome 15 was translocated to the telomeric end of chromosome 12, known to carry Igh, the immunoglobulin heavy chain cluster. The banding homologies between the chromosomes involved in the translocation in the two species suggest that a similar mechanism is responsible for plasmacytomagenesis in both. We also predict that the rat Ig heavy chain gene cluster will be located to the terminal segment of chromosome 6.
Studies on the mutagenic potential of the pesticide chlordimeforme and its principal metabolites in the mouse heritable translocation assay.	Chlordimeforme and its 2 principal metabolites, N-formyl-4-chloro-o-toluidine and 4-chloro-o-toluidine, were studied for induction of heritable translocations. Maximal tolerated doses of the compounds were given daily by gavage for 7 consecutive weeks. After mating with untreated females, about 1000 F1 male offspring per group--including vehicle control and positive control (Tretamine, TEM)--were tested for their reproductive performance by use of a sequential decision procedure on litter sizes to select males with translocation heterozygosity. Partially sterile, sterile and non-classifiable F1 males were examined cytogenetically by scoring meiotic chromosomes for translocation multivalents or analysing mitotic divisions for marker chromosomes. The 3 compounds tested at dose levels showing toxic effects did not induce translocation heterozygosity. Tretamine, the positive control, gave the expected mutagenic response.
Extra chromosome 12 and prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 22 consecutive patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia were stimulated with the polyclonal B-cell mitogens lipopolysaccharide from E. coli (LPS) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Stimulation was successful for chromosome analysis in 14 patients. Eleven patients had chromosomal aberrations and 7 of these had an extra chromosome 12. In 2 patients an extra chromosome 12 was the only abnormality, while additional aberrations were found in 5 patients. 3 patients had complex aberrations involving deletion of chromosome 6. 1 of these patients also had a translocation between chromosomes 12 and 14. 1 patient had a translocation between chromosomes 11 and 14. In 3 patients no aberrations were detected. The time elapsing between diagnosis and appearance of clinical symptoms which were indications for treatment was significantly shorter in patients with an extra chromosome 12 than in these without this abnormality. Thus, it appears that an extra chromosome 12 is associated with a more rapid course of the disease, and may therefore be of importance for the predition of prognosis.
Autosomal translocation in gynaecology and obstetrics. 1. Reproduction behaviour and chance of chromosomal translocation carriers (author's transl)]	Nineteen chromosal translocations (1.8 per cent) were recorded from 1,055 chromosomal analyses, between 1972 and 1980. Three translocations were unbalanced. Their carriers were no longer suitable for reproduction for the severity of their chromosomally caused disorders. Another three translocation carriers declined to have children of their own by voluntary decision or due to functional disorders, although they had been carriers of balanced translocations. Thirteen translocation carriers insisted on having children. With 41 pregnancies reviewed, abortion was the result of 58.5 per cent, birth of still malformations of 12.2 per cent, birth of living malformations in 7.3 per cent, and birth of clinically intact children in 22 per cent (three cases of balanced translocation). There were five D/G translocations and three D/D translocations. All the other translocations were singular. Only one in seven pregnancies of D/G translocation carriers (4 +/- 0.8) resulted in the birth of a clinically intact child. One in three pregnancies of other translocation carriers (2.6 +/- 0.3) yielded the same result. Female translocation carriers were 1.6 times as frequent as males. Their rates of abortion and malformation were twice as high as those of other women. -Clinically intact children were born only to nine of 13 couples, notwithstanding prenatal diagnosis. Handicapped children were recorded from 23 per cent of the couples reviewed. The need is emphasised for psychological guidance of such couples which should be offered by the attending gynaecologist.
Autosomal translocation in gynaecology and obstetrics. 2. Cytogenetic findings (author's transl)]	Reported in this paper are cytogenetic findings obtained from 19 cases of translocation in gynaecological and obstetric patients which had been recorded from 1,055 chromosomal analyses. The translocations are defined in some detail. Twelve of them were of the Robertson type and three unbalanced, while the origin of one "de novo" 4p+ translocation was not elucidated. The breaks in reciprocally balanced translocations were related to various chromosomal sections, but A chromosomes were involved in four cases. The relevance of cytogenetic studies into gynaecologico-obstetric patients is discussed with reference to the above findings.
Duplication (5p13 leads to pter): prenatal diagnosis and review of the literature.	We describe a patient with a reciprocal translocation t(5,13) and her three offspring. The chromosome anomaly was ascertained after the birth of her first child, who had the cri-du-chat syndrome. Amniocentesis demonstrated the presence of a dup(5p). The anomalies affecting that fetus are described and compared with the reported phenotypes of dup(5p). The extent of clinical findings in the reported cases depends on the length of the duplicated portion. The larger the duplication (p11 leads to pter), the more pronounced are the clinical signs. Physical signs are nearly absent when 5p14 leads to ter is involved. Also, translocations affecting chromosome 5 have an increased abnormal outcome when compared to D/D Robertsonian translocations. This is the first instance of antenatal diagnosis of trisomy 5p.
Familial reciprocal translocation, t(2;10)(p24;q26), resulting in duplication 2p and delection 10q.	We describe a familial reciprocal translocation between the distal part of the short arm of chromosome 2 and the long arm of chromosome 10. Five individuals in two generations had multiple congenital anomalies. Their karyotypes were 46,XX or XY, -10, + der(10), t(2;10)(p24;q26). Seven persons were balanced translocation carriers whose karyotypes were 46,XX or XY,t(2;10)(p24;q26). Common manifestations included mental retardation, strabismus, narrow high-arched palate, wide alveolar ridges, other facial abnormalities, genital abnormalities and mutism. The phenotype of the unbalanced individuals is compared to that of previously published cases of the syndrome of partial duplication 2p and to reported patients with partial deletion of 10q.
Clinical and cytogenetic spectrum of duplication 3p.	An eight months old child with duplication 3p (p21 leads to 3pter) [karyotype: 46,XX,-6,+t(3;6)(6pter leads to 6q27::3p21 leads to 3pter)] resulting from a maternal balanced translocation (3;6) is described. The major clinical findings include congenital heart defects (several ventricular septal defects, atrial septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, and double outlet right ventricle), and multiple dysmorphic features, such as brachycephaly, frontal bossing, square shaped face, hypertelorism, epicanthus, short prominent philtrum, and short neck. The motor development is retarded. The size of the duplicated segment of 3p is compared to 12 cases reported in the literature. Although the size of the duplicated segment differs in most of the patients, all show a similar pattern of developmental defects. It appears that the region 3p25 leads to 3pter is responsible for the phenotype of duplication 3p syndrome.
C, Q and H-banding in the analysis of Y chromosome rearrangements in Lucilia cuprina (Wiedemann) (Diptera: Calliphoridae).	In Lucilia cuprina C-banding produces procentric bands on all autosomes and deep staining over most of the X and Y chromosomes which conciderably facilitates the analysis of complex Y chromosome rearrangements. The Y chromosome is generally darkly C-banded throughout while in the X chromosome a pale staining segment is found in the distal portion of the long arm. Modulation of the banding reaction results in 'grey' areas in both X and Y. When C-banding is compared with allocycly it is clear that not all heteropycnotic regions in the sex chromosomes C-band to the same extent. Secondary constrictions in the short arms of both X and Y chromosomes are clearly revealed by C-banding, the X satellite being polymorphic for size.--Q-banding results in a brightly fluorescing band in the short arm of structurally normal Y chromosomes. This band loses its fluorescence in some translocations, probably through a position effect. Hoechst 33258 staining does not produce any brightly fluorescing bands.
A G-band study of chromosomes in liveborn infants.	The results of a chromosome survey of 3993 liveborn infants, the majority of which have been studied using G-banding, are reported. The frequency of all types of chromosome abnormalities detected was similar to that found in previous newborn surveys, which were carried out on different socio-economic structure, but the incidence of aneuploid chromosome abnormalities was comparable in the two localities.
An overall genetic risk assessment for radiological protection purposes.	Risks of serious hereditary damage in the first and second generations after low level radiation exposure and at equilibrium were calculated by using a doubling dose of 100 rem (based on experimental work with the mouse) and by considering separately the various categories of genic and chromosomal defect. Prenatal lethality has not been included. It is estimated that after the exposure of a population of future parents to a collective dose of 1 million man-rem, about 125 extra cases of serious genetic ill health would appear in children and grandchildren. In all future generations, a total of about 320 cases is expected, provided the population remains of constant size. It is emphasised, however, that a number of major assumptions have to be made in order to arrive at any overall genetic risk estimate, so that the confidence limits of these figures are bound to be wide.
Evidence of a threshold X-ray dose for sensitizing stem-cell spermatogonia of the mouse to the induction of chromosomal translocations by a second larger one.	The effect of different small conditioning doses of X-rays on the production of reciprocal translocations in stem-cell spermatogonia of the mouse (scored in spermatocytes) by a second larger dose have been examined. Fractionation regimes of 25 + 975 R, 50 + 950 R, 75 + 925 R and 100 + 900 R, all with 24 h between the fractions, were applied. The size of the first fraction strongly affected the frequency of induced translocations by the second one, and a kind of threshold dose, somewhere between 75 and 100 R existed for conditioning the spermatogonial population: the translocation yield after 25 + 975 R was 3.3%, after 50 + 975 R it was 5.0%, and after 75 + 925 R it was 5.1%; whereas 100 + 900 R resulted in 16.1% translocations. It is difficult to explain this observed threshold effect by known biological processes so far held responsible for the conditioning effect.
2 translocations, t(11;14) and t(1;6), in a patient with plasma cell leukaemia and 2 populations of plasma cells.	2 translocations, t(11;14) and t(1;6), were found in 24 out of 46 metaphases in bone marrow cells from an untreated patient with plasma cell leukaemia. The predominating cell population produced only kappa chains while a minute population produced IgG kappa. All serum Ig's were low and only minimal amounts of monoclonal IgG kappa were found in the serum and very small amounts of kappa light chains in the urine. Analyses of ours and 2 other reported patients indicated the possibility that the location of breakpoints on the chromosomes may be of etiologic importance for the type of light chain and perhaps for the class of heavy chain.
Regional mapping of ADA and ITP on human chromosome 20: cytogenetic and somatic cell studies in an X/20 translocation.	An apparently balanced de novo translocation between chromosomes X and 20, 46,X,t(X;20)(Xp20q;Xq20p), was identified in a severely retarded 13-year-old female with macrocephaly, bilateral overfolded pinnae, elbow contractures, clinodactyly, and seizures. BudR-pulse studies show the normal X chromosome to be late replicating in both lymphocytes (50 cells) and skin fibroblasts (25 cells). An HPRT deficient Chinese hamster line was fused with lymphocytes from the patient, and hybrid lines were derived in HAT medium. Cytogenetic and biochemical analyses of these hybrid lines show that the locus for adenosine deaminase is in the cen leads to qter region and that the locus for inosine triphosphatase is in the pter leads to cen region of human chromosome 20.
A 45,X male with translocation of euchromatic Y chromosome material.	A phenotypically normal 32-year-old male with azoospermia was found to have a 45,X karyotype with presence of excess euchromatic material on 14p. The parent's karyotypes are normal. This observation is interpreted as a Y/14 translocation with loss of the heterochromatic Y chromosome material.
Modified genetic response to X-irradiation of mouse spermatogonial stem cells surviving treatment with TEM.	Earlier studies have shown that the genetic response to X-irradiation of mouse spermatogonial stem-cell populations that are recovering from a previous radiation exposure may differ from that of a normal, unirradiated stem-cell population. Similar modified responses to X-irradiation have now been observed in stem spermatogonia that are recovering from treatment with the chemical mutagen, TEM. (1) In contrast to a normal response to 900 R, high translocation yields were obtained when this dose was administered 24 h after a TEM treatment. (2) A small but non-significant increase above a normal response to 500 R was obtained when this dose followed 24 h after TEM treatment and a normal response to 500 R was obtained from the reverse order treatment (500 R + TEM). (3) When given 4 days after a TEM treatment, the translocation yield from 500 R was only about half that normally obtained. Unexpectedly, a similar low response was obtained from the reverse order treatment which, if verified, would suggest selective cell killing by the TEM. THe chemical administered alone, was almost totally ineffective in producing recoverable translocations in stem spermatogonia. Since it is unlikely that TEM and X-rays should similarly synchronize the cell cycle of surviving stem spermatogonia it is concluded that the modified genetic responses obtained result from a different cause. Depletion of the stem-cell population is suggested as the common mediating factor. This may 'trigger' the radio-resistant, long cycling stem cells into a more active cycle such that, 24--48 h later, survivors may be highly 'synchronized' into either a sensitive cell-cycle stage or transient state preparatory to entering a shorter cell cycle to achieve repopulation. The low translocations yields obtained with longer intervals between treatments may typify the genetic response of the repopulating stem cells.
Chromosomal analysis of couples with repeated spontaneous abortions.	Chromosome banding studies were carried out on both partners of 182 consecutive couples with a history of two or more spontaneous abortions. Seventeen abnormal karyotypes were detected. This represents a frequency of 4.67 per cent, which is higher than hitherto reported. The pregnancy outcome in 105 couples with normal and abnormal karyotype was compared and no significant difference was found.
Mutation rates of structural chromosome rearrangements in man.	The gametic mutation rates of human structural chromosome rearrangements have been estimated from rearrangements ascertained from systematic surveys of live births and spontaneous abortions. The mutation rates for rearrangements that survive long enough to give rise to clinically recognized pregnancies are 2.20 X 10(-4) for balanced rearrangements, 3.54 X 10(-4) for unbalanced Robertsonian translocations, and 3.42 X 10(-4) for unbalanced non-Robertsonian rearrangements. These estimates give a mutation rate for all detectable structural chromosome rearrangements of approximately 1 X 10(-3). The most common single rearrangement, the Robertsonian translocation involving chromosomes 13 and 14, has a mutation rate of 1.5 X 10(-4).
A possible exception to the critical region hypothesis.	Cytogenetic studies were done on a 5-year-old female with multiple congenital anomalies and mental retardation, revealing an unbalanced X/11 translocation. Her mother and phenotypically normal sister carry the balanced form of the translocation, while her brother has a normal 46,XY karyotype. Banding studies showed the breakpoints to be Xq22 and 11q13. These are remarkable for the following reasons: (1) the X breakpoint is within the critical region of the X chromosome, yet the balanced carrier does not manifest gonadal dysgenesis; and (2) the proband was trisomic for most of the long arm of chromosome 11. Late-replication studies of cells from the two balanced carriers showed inactivation of the normal X.
Partial trisomy 6q, due to balanced maternal translocation (6;22) (q21; p13) or (q21; pter).	We report a stillborn infant with partial trisomy 6q who had several major congenital malformations not previously associated with the chromosomal aberration. These included occipital encephalocele, ambiguous genitalia with imperforate anus, omphalocele and unilateral hydronephrosis. The infant's karyotype was 46,XY,-22,der(22),t(6;22)(q21; p13) or (q21;pter)mat. The mother and maternal grandmother are balanced translocation carriers.
A recognizable phenotype in a child with partial duplication 13q in a family with t(10q;13q).	A case of partial duplication 13q14 leads to qter is reported in a 9-year-old male with clinical symptoms which include trigonocephaly and synophrys, producing an easily identifiable phenotype. The chromosome duplication resulted from a familial t(10;13)(qtr;q14). Subsequently, a normal balanced carrier sibling was diagnosed prenatally.
Molecular characterization of a chromosome translocation breakpoint t(11;14)(p13;q11) from the cell line KOPT-K1.	Recurrent chromosome translocations involving 11p13 and 14q11 are found in 5-10% of cases of T-ALL. The gene involved in the translocation on chromosome 14 is the T cell antigen receptor alpha or delta. The putative oncogene on chromosome 11 is rhombotin 2 (RBTN2)/translocated in T cell gene 2 (ttg-2), a member of the LIM family of proteins. In this paper we characterize a cell line KOPT-K1 that has a t(11;14)(p13;q11). The breakpoint on chromosome 11 involves an Alu-rich region with the break occurring between two Alu sequences on chromosome 11. In addition, approximately 70 bases from the break on chromosome 11 is a tetranucleotide repeat. Whether either of these structures played a role in the translocation is not known. No heptamer or nonamer sequences, implicated in other rearrangements were found near the breakpoint. The breakpoint on chromosome 11 maps more centromeric than previous translocations of this region. Despite this the RBTN2 gene is highly expressed in KOPT-K1. This cell line will be useful for investigating the role of RBTN2 in leukemogenesis and the mechanism by which the translocation alters the expression of RBTN2.
Expression of bcl-2 mRNA and protein in leukemia-lymphoma cell lines.	The expression of the proto-oncogene bcl-2 was examined in a panel of 75 continuous human leukemia-lymphoma cell lines originated from different hematopoietic cell types. The presence of the bcl-2 protein, as evidenced by Western blotting, and its mRNA, as determined by Northern blotting, were not restricted to cells with the chromosomal translocation t(14;18)(q32;q21), but were also detected in a large number of cell lines without t(14;18). The amount of the bcl-2 protein and mRNA in the cell lines with t(14;18) was in the same order of magnitude as in other bcl-2 expressing cell lines of the same lineage, but without the translocation. Bcl-2 was found in all types of hematopoietic cell lines which were assigned to the following lineages based on their phenotypical characteristics: pre-B, B, plasma, T, myeloid, monocytic, erythroid-megakaryocytic and Hodgkin's lymphoma derived cell lines. The levels of accumulated mRNA and protein corresponded fairly well in most of the cell lines examined. Our results suggest the notion that bcl-2 expression is widely present in hematopoietic cell lines without restriction to single lineages and, in fact, clearly independent of the chromosomal aberration t(14;18). It is conceivable that bcl-2 expression is a common feature in established hematopoietic cell lines and may contribute to their unlimited growth in vitro.
An X:autosome translocation stabilizes truncated dystrophin: implications for lack of truncated dystrophins in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.	We report a 5-year-old girl with clinical symptoms of typical Duchenne muscular dystrophy in males. The girl showed dramatic elevations of serum creatine kinase, and muscle biopsy histopathology consistent with a severe dystrophic myopathy. Cytogenetic analysis revealed an X:22 translocation (46,X,t [X;22] [p21.2;11.2]). Dystrophin immunofluoresence studies showed strong membrane immunostaining of dystrophin with antibodies directed against the amino terminus of the protein, but vastly reduced immunostaining with carboxyl-terminal antibodies. Immunoblot studies showed a major immunoreactive protein of approximately 350 kDa at approximately 20% levels. Nested RT-PCR analysis of the dystrophin mRNA in the patient's muscle showed the RNA to be positive for primers covering the first 85% of the dystrophin coding sequence, and negative for the carboxyl-terminal 15%. Taken together, our data suggests that the translocation breakpoint occurs towards the 3' end of the gene. The translocated dystrophin gene is still expressed into a truncated dystrophin protein associated with the plasma membrane. Our results are consistent with the translocation resulting in a more stable abnormal dystrophin mRNA.
Moloney murine leukemia virus infection accelerates lymphomagenesis in E mu-bcl-2 transgenic mice.	E mu-bcl-2 transgenic mice bearing the bcl-2 proto-oncogene linked to the immunoglobulin enhancer (E mu) sporadically develop B or T cell lymphomas after a long latent period. To identify genes that play important roles in development of lymphoid malignancies, proviral insertional mutagenesis with Moloney murine leukemia virus (MMuLV) was carried out in two lines of transgenic mice expressing the bcl-2 gene primarily in B or T cells. MMuLV infection of non-transgenic mice induced primarily mature T cell lymphomas. By contrast, infection of newborn E mu-blc-2 mice with the virus accelerated lymphomagenesis, and nearly all of the mice eventually succumbed to clonal pre-B, B, or mainly immature T cell lymphoma, indicating the active contribution of the bcl-2 gene in lymphomagenesis. Southern blot analysis of tumor DNA from MMuLV-infected transgenic mice revealed a proviral insertion at the c-myc gene in 26% (9/35) of tumors, at the pim-1 gene in 6% (2/35) and at the pim-2 (recently renamed tic-1) gene in 23% (8/35). Some tumors carried two activated oncogenes. No insertion was detected at the bmi-1 gene. These data suggest the usefulness of this transgenic system for analysis of lymphomagenesis involving the activated bcl-2 gene.
Clonal expansion of germline B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia in severe combined immunodeficient mice.	CD19+ B lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) with unrearranged Ig and TCR genes are designated germline B lineage ALLs. We used CDR3 PCR to determine whether pediatric germline B lineage ALLs contain minor subclones with rearranged Ig H V genes. In six of seven cases there were no PCR detectable CDR3 rearrangements. One case with a smear pattern on CDR3 PCR contained multiple unique CDR3 sequences at frequencies of 1-2 per 2,600, suggesting that polyclonal B cells were present at low frequency. To verify that the germline patterns were from leukemic cells and evaluate in vivo subclone differentiation, a germline B lineage ALL with the t(4;11) translocation was propagated in severe combined immunodeficient SCID) mice. The Ig and TCR genes in the leukemic cells recovered from mouse tissues were germline by Southern blot analysis except for single rearrangements that suggested subclone evolution at the Ig H and lambda loci in addition to the germline population. No CDR3 sequences were detected, indicating that the observed Ig H gene rearrangement most likely was a DJ joining. This study suggests that the transformed cell in germline B lineage ALL represents an early pro-B cell with limited tendency to further differentiate.
Functional domains of the t(8;21) fusion protein, AML-1/ETO.	The AML-1/ETO fusion protein is created by the (8;21) translocation, the second most frequent chromosomal abnormality associated with acute myeloid leukemia. In the fusion protein the AML-1 runt homology domain, which is responsible for DNA binding and CBF beta interaction, is linked to ETO, a gene of unknown function. The primary sequences of the runt homology domain indicates no known DNA binding motifs, but is predicted to contain six beta-strands, two alpha-helices and a nucleotide binding motif. Mutagenesis of AML-1/ETO was performed to delimit the functional domains of the chimeric protein. Most mutations in the runt homology domain that resulted in reduced CBF beta binding also inhibited DNA binding, indicating that the DNA and CBF beta binding sequences are tightly linked. However, these activities were separated by a point mutation of residue 144, within the putative ATP binding motif, which nearly eliminated DNA binding, but did not affect CBF beta binding. Random mutagenesis identified the hydrophobic face of the amphipathic fifth beta-strand, adjacent to the putative ATP binding motif, as critical for both DNA and CBF beta binding. C-terminal deletion mutants of AML-1/ETO indicated that ETO sequences are essential for interference with AML-1B-mediated transcriptional activation, and that residue 540 defines the C-terminal boundary of a potential repression domain. Thus, these mutational analyses define the regions of AML-1/ETO which regulate its function and that may be important in promoting leukemia.
Anti-interferon immunoglobulins can improve the trisomy 16 mouse phenotype.	Mouse trisomy 16 is a well-studied model for human chromosome 21 trisomy (Down's syndrome). The late stage trisomy 16 mouse fetus exhibits significant growth retardation, inappropriately opened eyes, and convex rather than concave back curvature. The interferons (alpha, beta, and gamma) have potent growth retarding activity, and sensitivity to these cytokines is controlled by genes that map to mouse chromosome 16 and human chromosome 21. In experiments designed to determine if the interferons induce or aggravate the trisomy phenotype, mice pregnant with trisomy 16 fetuses were injected with a combination of anti-alpha, -beta, and -gamma interferon IgG. This maternal anti-interferon treatment was found to provide measurable benefit to the development and growth of the trisomic fetuses with significant return-toward-normal values observed for overall fetal growth, eye opening, and back curvature.
Malignant melanoma of soft parts involving the head and neck region: review of literature and case report.	Malignant melanoma of soft parts (MMSP) was originally described as a distinct entity by Enzinger in 1965 and was termed "clear cell sarcoma of tendons and aponeuroses" because of its association with tenosynovial structures. It has been shown immunophenotypically and ultrastructurally that this tumor is derived from neuroectoderm and shares a number of features with cutaneous melanoma. Over 95% of MMSPs present in the extremities, with the head and neck region (1.9%) being an unusual site. This study presents an additional case of MMSP of the head and neck region involving the posterior cervical region in a 15-year-old Hispanic male and reviews the literature on MMSP. Ultrastructural examination showed rudimentary cell attachments, smooth cell membranes, discontinuous basal lamina, scanty glycogen, and occasional premelanosomes in some tumor cells. Cytogenetic analysis showed a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 12 and 22 [t(12:22)(q13;q12.2)], characteristic for MMSP and not seen in cutaneous melanoma. Survival in MMSP has been correlated with tumor size, tumor necrosis, and ploidy status. Overall reported clinical outcome for this tumor is as follows: died of disease, 45%; alive with disease, 23%; no evidence of disease, 30%; and died of other causes, 2%. MMSP represents a distinct entity with a characteristic ultrastructural appearance and a tumor defining cytogenetic translocation.
Synovial sarcoma of the heart. Correlation with cytogenetic findings.	A primary sarcoma of the heart was submitted to cytogenetic studies, which showed a translocation t(X;18)(p11;q11.2). The translocation between X and 18 is a characteristic one in synovial sarcoma of the lower extremities. As the histological appearance was not helpful for further classification of this primary sarcoma, karyotypic analysis proved useful in confirming diagnosis of synovial sarcoma, which, to our knowledge, is an uncommon neoplasm in the heart.
Familial glioblastoma.	The authors describe a family with three members affected by glioblastoma. The proband patient, a 7 year-old girl, developed a rare complication, a pulmonary metastasis. Chromosomal analysis of her peripheral blood lymphocytes showed a normal karyotype (46, XX), without structural abnormalities. Cytogenetic study of the tumor cells disclosed several abnormalities: 46, XX, 7q-/46, XX, -2, 4p-, 7p-, +15/46, XX. Some aspects about genetics of glial neoplasms are discussed.
High frequency of t(12;21) in childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The recurrent t(12;21)(p12;q22) translocation fuses two genes, TEL and AML1, that have previously been shown to be independently involved in myeloid malignant proliferations. A search for rearrangement of the TEL locus in the region known to be involved in t(12;21) was performed by Southern blotting in a panel of hematopoietic malignancies. The presence of a t(12;21) was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and/or reverse transcriptase (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We report that fusion of TEL to AML1 is specifically observed in at least 16% of the childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) investigated, none of which had been previously identified as harboring t(12;21).
Cytogenetics of hybrid acute leukemias.	Although the recognition of hybrid acute leukemia (HAL) is still controversial, several reports have described cytogenetic findings in these leukemias over the last 3 years. A distinct chromosomal profile appears to be associated with different immunologic subsets of HAL. The classical t(15;17), and inv(16) as well as abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 5 and/or 7 are preferentially associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with T-cell features; the t(8;21)(q22;q22), the Ph chromosome, and 11q23 rearrangements are more frequently found in AML with B-cell features; the Ph chromosome, t11q23 and 14q32 breaks without rearrangements of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene may be associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with myeloid markers. In addition, some chromosome aberrations may be encountered more frequently in acute leukemia with major phenotype deviations than in unselected cases of acute leukemia: namely the Ph chromosome, 11q23 rearrangements, and +13. These chromosome changes appear to be associated with a low complete remission (CR) rate. An association has been documented in some patients with ALL between the presence of the t(9;22) and a minor myeloid component consisting of 5-15% blast cells with myelomonocytic features, raising the possibility that a diagnosis of bilineal acute leukemia would be more appropriate in such cases. These patients appear to have a severe outcome with significantly lower CR rate than similar cases of Ph-positive ALL without a minor myeloid component.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
CD34 expression in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The expression of the pluripotent stem cell antigen CD34 was evaluated at diagnosis in forty-five adult patients with de novo ALL. Comparison of clinical and hematological features between CD34 positive (24/45) and CD34 negative (21/45) patients showed that the former were of older age, had more pronounced lymphoid organ involvement and higher serum LDH levels. Immunophenotypic analysis of marrow blast cells revealed a significant predominance of the 'null' phenotype in the CD34 positive group, together with a strong expression of the VLA-4 and VLA-5 integrins (fibronectin receptors). CD34 positive ALL were also more frequently associated with either aberrant myeloid-related antigens (CD13, CD33) or the P-gp/MDR-1 phenotype. Only 11 out of 24 (45%) CD34 positive patients achieved complete remission after induction chemotherapy, compared to 20/21 (95%) CD34 negative cases. Furthermore, survival was significantly shorter in the CD34 positive group (6.6 mo. vs 13.5 mo.). These results suggest that in ALL, as in AML, CD34 positivity may predict a poor prognosis.
Acute myeloid leukemias M2 potentially misdiagnosed as M3 variant French-American-Britain (FAB) subtype: a transitional form?	From 1990 to 1994, 3 patients with de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in whom light microscopy and cytochemistry suggested a FAB subtype M3 variant were observed at our Institute. Immunophenotype showed HLA-DR-, CD13+, CD33+, CD2+, CD9+; promyelocytic features were also detected by electron microscopy. However, leukemic cells lacked both translocation t(15;17) and RAR alpha/PML genes rearrangement. These cases were considered to be 'M2 atypical' subtypes and they contribute to point out how cytogenetics and molecular biology are mandatory for a correct diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) particularly because therapy with all trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is now the best treatment for APL. Nevertheless these 3 cases indicate that the atypical M2 subtype may be confused with the M3v if only cytochemistry, immunophenotype and electron microscopy are used in the defining the FAB subtypes.
AML M1 and M2 with eosinophilia and AML M4Eo: diagnostic and clinical aspects.	AML with eosinophilia belongs to the morphologic cytogenetic entity M1/M2 t(8;21) with the involvement of the genes AML1/ETO. These eosinophils differ only slightly from normal eosinophils with one rare exception i.e. Auer rods in eosinophils which has only been found on peroxidase staining: This subtype belongs to the good prognosis group of AML. AML with inv(16) (mostly M4Eo) per se is a morphologic-cytogenetic entity with inv(16),--rarely t(16;16), and the genes MYL 11/CBF beta involved. The eosinophils show special abnormalities. AML with inv(16) also belongs to the good prognosis group of AML.
Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia.	In 1985 acute megakaryoblastic leukemia was included in the FAB classification system of hematological neoplasias with the designation of AML M7. It occurs in all age groups with two peaks in distribution. The one is in adults and the other in children 1 to 3 years of age especially in those with Down's syndrome. The diagnosis of AML M7 requires more than 30% of the nucleated bone marrow cells being megakaryoblasts. The more common types of AML MO-M6 have to be excluded by morphological and cytochemical analysis whereas immunology is needed to exclude ALL. The megakaryocytic nature of the leukemia has to be proven by ultrastructural demonstration of platelet peroxidase or by immunological demonstration of CD61, CD42, CD41 on the surface of the leukemic blasts. Megakaryocytic/megakaryoblastic leukemias show a wide morphologic spectrum. In some instance small cells dominate, clearly showing megakaryocytic differentiation with scant amounts of cytoplasm and with nuclei showing dense chromatin. On the other hand, there are cases with larger cells resembling ALL-L2 blasts with moderate amounts of rather basophilic cytoplasm which in some instances contain azurophilic granules. Cytoplasmic blebs and protrusions are the most prominent feature of many cases. The nuclei of these cells are round with more finely reticulated chromatin and with prominent nucleoli. The megakaryoblastic nature of these cells can be suggested by morphology. However, according to our experience there are cases of c-ALL with the very same morphologic picture. Consequently, immunologic phenotyping of these cases is necessary in any instance. Cytochemistry is of limited diagnostic value in megakaryoblastic leukemias. Usually it is used to exclude the more common types of leukemia.
Techniques for detection of minimal residual disease.	Analysis of leukemia-specific and leukemia-associated markers following standard or high-dose treatments is crucial in order to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic strategies. During the last decade, several techniques have been proposed and used for detecting minimal residual disease (MRD). Each approach is characterized by advantages and limitations, mainly related to its sensitivity and specificity. The general limitations of such tests originates from the size of the sample which can be analysed and the heterogeneous distribution of leukemia after treatment. Clinically useful methods for detecting residual leukemia require not only sensitivity but also speed and reproducibility. The rate of false negative tests is low with polymerase chain reaction as well as flow cytometric analysis. Usually, patients without persistent cells carrying leukemia-associated markers have a lower risk of relapse. However, the detection of a persistent marker at one time point in complete remission cannot be considered a reliable indicator of MRD, whereas increase of positive signals or reappearance of leukemic markers usually precedes relapse. It is likely that one single approach will not allow the monitoring of the majority of patients and that a combination of techniques will be needed. Definitive results will be obtained only through prospective studies in patients receiving standardised therapy. Studies in which therapeutic strategies are designed according to the results provided by techniques for detecting MRD will be necessary to assess the relevance of their contribution to the treatment of leukemia.
Usefulness of cytogenetic analysis in the diagnosis of undifferentiated synovial sarcoma of the chest wall. A case report.	A case of poorly differentiated spindle cell malignant neoplasm of the chest wall in a 21-year-old man is reported. The results of histopathological and immunohistochemical examinations were not characteristic enough to establish the precise diagnosis. Due to the age of the patient and the location of the lesion and NSE positivity of tumor cells, the possibility of Askin's tumour or malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour was considered. Cytogenetic analysis revealed a chromosomal translocation t(X;18)(p11;q11), which is known as the specific aberration in synovial sarcoma. Chromosome study seems to be a useful tool for identifying undifferentiated mesenchymal tumours.
Establishment of Epstein-Barr virus-associated lymphoma cell line SUBL with t(2;3)(p11;q27) from a liver transplant patient.	A new lymphoma cell line, designated SUBL, was established from a Japanese patient with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated lymphoma, which developed during FK 506 therapy after liver transplantation. This cell line has undergone 80 passages over a period of 22 months. The cultured cells were positive for CD19, CD20, CD21, CD22, CD23, and HLA-DR, and negative for CD10 and surface immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulin gene analysis revealed rearrangements of JH and JK. T-cell antigens or T-cell receptor gene rearrangements were not observed on the cell line. The SUBL cells were positive for Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen (EBNA). The EBV genome was detected in the original tissue and the cell line by the in situ hybridization method. These data indicate that this cell line represents the B-cell lineage at a pre-B-cell stage. SUBL cells showed successful heterotransplantation to mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). Chromosomal analysis revealed the karyotype 46,XY,t(2;3)(p11;q27). Molecular studies showed that c-myc, N-myc, and bcl-2 were not rearranged. This cell line will provide a useful in vitro system to study the relationship between chromosomal abnormalities and the activation of cellular oncogenes.
The development of chromosome-specific composite DNA probes for the mouse and their application to chromosome painting.	The speed and ease of human cytogenetic analysis has been greatly enhanced by the technique of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Non-radioactive fluorescently tagged complex DNA probes specific for individual chromosomes can be hybridized to conventionally obtained metaphase chromosome spreads. Several chromosomes may be "painted" concurrently by using combinations of different labeled probes. Surveys of chromosome breakage and rearrangement may be performed very quickly by avoiding the time consuming process of GTG-banding. The application of FISH to mouse cytogenetics would allow large scale molecular toxicology studies to be conducted on the effects of such environmental insults as potential carcinogens, mutagens and radiation. Progress has been hampered, however, as the Mus musculus karyotype consists of 40 acrocentric chromosomes of approximately the same size, making the recognition and separation of individual chromosomes very difficult. We now describe the successful production and application of chromosome-specific composite DNA probes for M. musculus chromosomes 2 and 8. Stable Robertsonian translocated chromosomes were isolated on a flow sorter and their DNA subsequently amplified by degenerate oligonucleotide primer (DOP) PCR. Small pools (300 copies) of each chromosome were denatured at 94 degrees C then annealed with the primer at 30 degrees C for 15 cycles. This was followed by 20 cycles at an annealing temperature of 62 degrees C. Additional amplification was performed at an annealing temperature of 62 degrees C. The chromosome-specific DNA was labeled with biotin 11-dUTP by nick translation and used for FISH. The usefulness of the technique for translocation detection is demonstrated by analyzing chromosome exchanges induced in mice irradiated with 137Cs gamma rays.
The induction of Robertsonian translocations by X-rays and mitomycin C in mouse cells.	The induction of Robertsonian translocations in murine C3H 10T1/2 embryo fibroblasts after exposure to X-rays and mitomycin C has been investigated. Cells were irradiated in log-phase and harvested at different times for chromosome analysis. The stage of the cell cycle of individual cells at the time of irradiation could be determined by differential replication staining. A dose-dependent delay in the progression through S- and G2-phase has been observed. X-rays produced an increase in the frequency of Robertsonian translocations when cells were exposed in G1- or S-phase, but not in G2. The dose-response curve for the induction of Robertsonian translocations both in G1 and S peaked at 2 Gy and slightly declined at higher doses. For G2 cells, an increase compared to the control level was observed only after 1 Gy. Mitomycin C induced chromosomal aberrations and Robertsonian translocations in 10T1/2 cells, but no significant interaction between ionizing radiation and the alkylating agent was observed for these two endpoints. However, the combined exposure caused satellite associations of chromosomes. Both the number of satellite associations/metaphase (five times the frequency observed after mitomycin C alone) and the number of chromosomes/satellite (up to 10 chromosomes were observed in satellite associations) were greatly enhanced compared to X-rays and mitomycin C alone.
Dedifferentiated chondrosarcoma with t(9;22)(q34;q11-12).	Translocation t(9;22)(q22-31;q11-12) is associated with the myxoid variant of chondrosarcoma. We present here a report of a patient with a dedifferentiated grade IV chondrosarcoma, which originated from the iliac bone and contained areas of grade I chondrosarcoma. There was no evidence of myxoid differentiation. The tumor had the karyotype 46,X,-X,t(9;22)(q34;q11-12), + mar[5]/52-61,x?,2-3 min,inc[9]/46,XX[2]. It is possible that the different breakpoints in the t(9;22) may reflect different histopathologic subgroups of chondrosarcoma.
Band 11q13 is nonrandomly rearranged in hibernomas.	Cytogenetic study of a short-term culture from a hibernoma, a very rare benign proliferation of the brown fat, demonstrated a four-break translocation t(5;7;11;17)(p14;q11.23;q13.1-13.3;p11.2) as the sole abnormality in all analyzed cells. Complex translocation involving band 11q13 have also been detected in the two other published cases of hibernoma. The consistent finding of 11q13 rearrangements appears to distinguish hibernoma from other benign adipose tissue tumors cytogenetically and suggests that 11q13 changes may play an important role in hibernoma pathogenesis.
Abnormalities of chromosome 22 in pediatric meningiomas.	Cytogenetic studies of eight meningiomas in young children or adolescents were performed. Two tumors exhibited normal karyotypes. Two tumors from patients with bilateral acoustic neurofibromatosis demonstrated monosomy 22 as the only abnormality. Four patients had more complicated karyotypes in which one or both of the chromosomes 22 were missing or structurally altered. The most common secondary changes in these four tumors involved monosomy or structural abnormalities of chromosome 6. These findings confirm that the primary cytogenetic changes in meningioma are similar in children and adults. Molecular analyses of pediatric meningiomas with deletions or translocations of chromosome 22 will be useful for identifying the role of chromosome 22 tumor suppressor genes in this disease.
Clastogenicity of trophosphamide in somatic and germinal cells of mice.	Trophosphamide, a chemotherapeutic agent structurally related to cyclophosphamide, was tested in the micronucleus and heritable translocation assays in mice. It induced a linear increase of micronuclei in polychromatic erythrocytes 24 h after treatment with 1, 5, 25 or 50 mg/kg. In spermatids and spermatozoa of mice heritable translocations were induced by 150 mg/kg with an average frequency of 6%. The doubling doses calculated for micronucleus induction and heritable translocation induction were 5.0 and 1.3 mg/kg, respectively. These values are in the same order of magnitude and suggest that somatic and germinal cells are similarly sensitive to the clastogenic action of trophosphamide.
AML-1 gene rearrangement and AML-1-ETO gene expression as molecular markers of acute myeloblastic leukemia with t(8;21).	Rearrangements of the AML-1 gene on chromosome 21 as well as transcriptional expression of AML-1-ETO fusion gene were studied in 35 leukemic patients with t(8;21)(q22;q22). A panel of probes generated from the AML-1 gene regions flanking the breakpoint on chromosome 21 allowed us to detect the rearrangement in 24 out of 29 patients. A specific nested reverse transcriptase/polymerase chain reaction (RT/PCR) was developed to detect the t(8;21), either at diagnosis or as minimal residual disease. PCR amplification products were obtained in ten out of 11 patients investigated, and the sensitivity of the reaction was estimated to be between 1 x 10(4) and 1 x 10(-5) cell. An AML-1 rearrangement was also detected in one patient with 8q- and only one chromosome 21, but without 21q+. This indicated that the molecular rearrangement of the der(8) chromosome is more important than the reciprocal one in the malignant process.
AML1/ETO fusion mRNA can be detected in remission blood samples of all patients with t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia after chemotherapy or autologous bone marrow transplantation.	The chromosomal translocation t(8;21)(q22;q22) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) can be detected by a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the chimeric AML1/ETO transcript. We have evaluated the clinical relevance of this method for monitoring and detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) in seven patients who reached a complete hematological remission (CHR) after chemotherapy or autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT). Peripheral blood (PB) samples of five patients in first continuous complete remission (CCR) were still PCR-positive at a frequency of 1 in 10(5) cells after 7, 8, 8, 10 or 66 months. Chemotherapy led to a reduction from first- to second-step PCR-positivity in three serially monitored patients. AML1/ETO mRNA was also detected in the PB of two patients in CCR, 10 or 12 months after ABMT. PB and bone marrow (BM) showed identical results in all samples tested simultaneously. AML1/ETO fusion transcripts were neither found in the PB and BM of a healthy individual, nor in the PB of a patient after allogeneic BMT for cytogenetically proven t(8;21)-leukemia. Our results indicate the presence of cells carrying the AML1/ETO rearrangement in the PB and BM of all patients in CHR after chemotherapy or ABMT for t(8;21)-positive AML. While this finding raises interesting questions about the biology of acute leukemia, it limits the value of the AML/ETO RT-PCR for the prediction of impending relapse.
Investigation of karyotypic, morphologic and clinical features in patients with acute myeloid leukemia blast cells expressing the neural cell adhesion molecule (CD56).	The mechanisms of extramedullary leukemic infiltration are not well characterized. The cell-surface glycoprotein CD56, which is identical to the neural cell adhesion molecule, may be involved. Using the Leu-19 antibody and flow cytometric methods, the leukemic blasts of 22% (70 of 314) of patients were CD56 positive. This was most common in acute monocytic leukemia (15 of 18, 83%) and in patients with the cytogenetic abnormalities t(8;21) (seven of 13, 54%) and trisomy 8 (nine of 22, 41%). CD56 expression was not associated with extramedullary leukemic infiltration, but was correlated with positivity for CD11b (p < 0.001), CD14 (p < 0.001) and CD19 (p = 0.018). Although associated with morphologic and cytogenetic features, CD56 expression alone cannot account for most instances of tissue infiltration in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Partial trisomy 13q inherited from balanced translocation (5;13) (p14;q13).	A girl with multiple congenital malformations was found to have an abnormal karyotype: 46,XX,t(5;13) (13pter leads to 13q13 : : 5p14 leads to 5qter), meaning that she is monosomic for the distal part of the short arm of chromosome No. 5 (from 5pter to 5p14) and trisomic for the long arm of chromosome No. 13 (from 13q13 to 13qter). The proband's father is a carrier of a balanced reciprocal translocation: 46, XY, t(5;13) (p14;q13) (13qter leads to 13q13 : : 5p14 leads to 5qter; 13pter leads to 13q13 : : 5p14 leads to 5pter). Therefore, the propositus' abnormal karyotype was interpreted as the result from an adjacent type 1 malsegregation of the meiotic paternal quadrivalent MI22,IV (5p 14;13q13). Her phenotype agrees with the preliminar map of Nol et al. (1976) but, in addition, she shows craniosynostosis and practically normal psychomotor maturation.
Genetic risk in cases of reciprocal translocation (author's transl)]	The analysis of 206 families with reciprocal translocations revealed thanks to a patient who was a carrier of an unbalanced translocation demonstrated the risk of a child suffering from the disease at about 16.4%, in the case of a meiotic segregation 2 : 2. In the case of translocation with meiotic segregation 3 : 1, the risk is much less, i.e. 7.6% for female carriers and significantly less than 3/83 for male carriers. It is extremely important to take this difference into account when evaluating the risks during genetic counselling. On the other hand, the freqeuncy of spontaneous abortions is practically the same for carriers of translocations with these two types of segregation and rises to nearly 23%; i.e. the postzygotic selection influences, to the same degree, zygotes with one chromosome too many, one two few, and zygotes with 46 chromosomes, but of which one has a defect or an excess of genetic material. Such selection depends rather on an interaction between the abnormal genome of the zygote (embryo) and the genome of the mother, whilst the prezygotic selection operates against the gametes having one chromosome too many or one too few. A large asymmetry in the length of the exchanged fragments could be one of the causes of the 3 : 1 segregation. This is proved by a more frequent participation (48/60) of the acrocentric chromosomes in the translocations with segregation 3 : 1. On the other hand, in translocations with segregation 2 : 2, acrocentrics are found much more rarely (66/146).
Cytogenetic polymorphism or Y/15 translocation in a black male with ambiguous genitalia.	A black male with ambiguous genitalia was found to have presumptive Y/15 translocation (46,XY,der(15) ? t(15;Y) (13;q12.2). The proband inherited this translocation from his father. All banding techniques were utilized to determine whether this was a polymorphism or a Y/15 translocation. No definite conclusion was reached but the results of QFQ, RFA, CBG, and GTG banding techniques are highly suggestive of Y/15 translocation.
Analysis of crossingover in man.	Methods for constructing maps of male and female recombination are reviewed, including reporting of raw data, construction of standard lod tables, and analysis of heterogeneity. Chiasma distributions, physical assignments, nondisjunction, and chromosomal rearrangements are considered.
AML1 fusion transcripts in t(3;21) positive leukemia: evidence of molecular heterogeneity and usage of splicing sites frequently involved in the generation of normal AML1 transcripts.	The t(3;21)(q26;q22) is associated with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis (CML-BC), leukemia evolving from (therapy-related) myelodysplasia, and with leukemia following other hematopoietic proliferative diseases. Molecular cytogenetic analysis and cloning of a few t(3;21) cases indicate that the breakpoints are quite heterogeneous even within a specific clinical phenotype. Interestingly some of the (3;21) breakpoints involve the AML1 gene previously found rearranged in the t(8;21) associated with acute myelogenous leukemia. AML1 is related to the Drosophila gene runt and is the human counterpart of the gene for the alpha subunit of the nuclear polyoma enhancer binding protein (PEBP2) also known as the core binding factor (CBF). In the t(3;21) AML1 was found rearranged with EAP, a gene on chromosome 3 encoding a small ribosomal protein, as well as with EV11, another gene on chromosome 3. Here we report our study of six cases of t(3;21). By using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis and AML1 probes we could conclude that at least in two CML-BC cases the breakpoint occurred in the AML1 intron that is disrupted by the t(8;21). An AML1/EAP fusion transcript, different from the one described in a therapy-related myelodysplasia, was detected in both CML-BC cases. This transcript is expected to result in a predicted protein containing the AML1 nuclear binding domain with an attached stretch of 17 amino acids unrelated to the EAP small ribosomal protein. In the other t(3;21) patients we could not detect an AML1/EAP transcript or an AML1/EV11 transcript. This result suggests heterogeneity of the t(3;21) at the molecular level. The AML1 chimeric transcripts identified so far, both in the t(3;21) and in the t(8;21), diverge from the normal transcripts either after exon 5 or exon 6. Here we show that in normal AML1 transcripts different splicing events are seen to occur after AML1 exon 5 as well as exon 6.
Chromosomal in situ hybridization and interphase cytogenetics in single cell and tissue section preparations: new methods in tumor diagnosis and clinical cytogenetics]	To overcome the shortcomings encountered in classical cytogenetics, a variety of in situ hybridization techniques have been developed enabling metaphase and interphase cytogenetics on routinely processed tissues and cells. These techniques comprise the detection of numerical chromosome aberrations, the delineation or "painting" of whole chromosomes or certain chromosome regions and the visualization of structural chromosome rearrangements in interphase nuclei. Some of these new methods can reliably be applied also on paraffin-embedded tissues, among them the comparative genomic in situ hybridization (CGH) technique suitable for providing a survey of over- or underrepresented genetic material on the chromosomal level even if only tumour DNA is available.
In situ polymerase chain reaction: general methodology and recent advances.	In situ PCR is a new molecular technique, that combines the extreme sensitivity of PCR with the cellular localization provided by in situ hybridization (ISH), through the amplification of specific gene sequences within intact cells or tissue sections and increasing copy numbers to levels detectable by ISH or immunohistochemistry. In addition to the detection of viral DNA (CMV, HBV, HIV), we have used this technique for the study of DNA rearrangements, chromosomal translocations (t14;18) and viral RNA (HCV) in cells in suspension, cytocentrifuge preparations or archival tissue sections. We compared different approaches to in situ amplification of target sequences and visualization of PCR products by either subsequent ISH (indirect in situ PCR) or by direct detection of labeled nucleotides, which have been incorporated during PCR (direct in situ PCR). Our results indicate, that in situ PCR includes a number of different techniques, which are not equally applicable to all types of samples. In situ PCR appears to be most effective for the detection of DNA in single cell preparations with controlled fixation and pretreatment, although the quantification of results remains problematic. Artifacts caused by diffusion and extracellular generation of PCR products are a significant problem potentially leading to false positive results. In situ PCR works less efficiently in archival tissue sections due to poor quality of nucleic acids and retention of PCR products. Direct in situ PCR yields less specific results than indirect in situ PCR and requires additional controls such as omission of primers in the reaction mixture to detect artifacts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Criteria for molecular biological diagnosis in pathology]	Since its initial description in 1985 (Saiki et al., 1985), the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has become one of the leading techniques. This approach is not only able to clarify many questions in basic research, but also diagnostical issues. The application of PCR in the field of tissue diagnosis is still at its infant stage, although it has already proved to be of great value. However, the slow introduction of PCR in the field of Pathology is the cause of much misunderstandings for many clinician. Of the possible reasons for this, one could be the fact that the tissue diagnosis is carried out by the investigation of formalin-fixed material. One solution to this situation would be to propose a frame-work of conditions for the introduction of PCR as a diagnostically valuable method of investigation.
Detection of EWS-/FLI-1 gene fusion transcripts by RT-PCR as a tool in the diagnosis of tumors of the Ewing sarcoma group]	Recent cloning of the chromosome breakpoint regions of the reciprocal chromosomal t(11;22) (q24;q12) has revealed that the breakpoints were localized within the EWS gene (Ewings sarcoma gene) on chromosome 22 and the FLI-1 gene on chromosome 11. Thus, molecular genetic techniques were applicable for the detection of this genetic aberration, which occurs as a consistent feature of the Ewings tumor family. By reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction technique (RT-PCR) in 78% of Ewings sarcoma derived cell lines, and in 91% of primary Ewings tumor tissue t(11;22) specific EWS/FLI-1 fusion transcripts were detected. Furthermore, in bone marrow samples from an Ewings sarcoma patient contaminating tumor cells could be shown by RT-PCR. Our results indicate that molecular genetic detection of the t(11;22) translocation opens a new modality for the differential diagnosis and the staging of Ewings tumor patients.
Hodgkin lymphomas ar negative with regard to bcl-2/JH gene rearrangement, but partly express BCL-2 protein: analysis of 83 cases from the German Hodgkin Trial]	Conflicting data on the presence of bcl-2/JH gene rearrangement and BCL-2 protein expression in Hodgkin's disease (HD) have been reported. To find out the reason for these differences, well characterized cases from the German National Trial were examined by PCR for the bcl-2 gene rearrangement and immunohistochemically for BCL-2 protein expression. No bcl-2/JH rearrangement could be detected among the HD analyzed from paraffin sections, as well as another 24 cases of HD investigated in fresh tissue. Contrasted with this, immunohistochemistry demonstrated BCL-2 protein expression in all types of HD. In conclusion, our results suggest that the bcl-2/JH gene rearrangement does not play a role in HD, but BCL-2 protein is frequently expressed by RS/H cells of non-lymphocyte predominance subtypes.
Assessment of Yqh translocations.	Two initially presumed Yqh translocations, one to Xp and another to 21p, were assessed by conventional banding procedures, 5-azacytidine treatment, electron microscopy, and fluorescence in situ hybridisation. While the Yqh nature of the heterochromatic block from Xp was confirmed, this was not the case with the 21ph+ variant. In conclusion, conventional banding techniques are insufficient to diagnose Y;G translocations.
Autism, mental retardation, multiple exostoses and short stature in a female with 46,X,t(X;8)(p22.13;q22.1).	A young adult female with multiple exostoses, short stature, autism, mental retardation and 46,X,t(X;8)(p22.13;q22.1) is described. Although the clinical features and translocation breakpoints raise the possibility of a number of specific conditions, the constellation of problems is not consistent with any previously reported genetic syndrome. It is argued that her clinical disorder is likely due to the chromosomal abnormality and that further detailed molecular genetic investigation may shed light on the genetic basis to various components of her phenotype including the autism.
A fetus with an X;1 balanced reciprocal translocation and eye disease.	A 19 week female fetus is described with a de novo X;1 reciprocal balanced translocation, with the breakpoint on the X chromosome at Xp11.4, and eye pathology consistent with the early stages of Norrie disease. The fetus seems to be an example of a female manifesting an X linked recessive disease, and it was shown that the normal X chromosome was completely inactivated in all cells examined. Norrie disease has been mapped to Xp11.3, and fluorescence in situ hybridisation studies showed that the Norrie disease gene had not obviously been disrupted. Mutation screening by SSCP analysis showed no aberrant fragments of the coding region of the gene. Several eye disease genes map to the same region of the X chromosome, but are excluded on grounds of pathology. One possibility is that this fetus has a Norrie-like eye disease caused by the mutation of another gene located at Xp11.4. If this is so, there are implications for prenatal diagnosis.
Quantitative analysis of AML1/ETO transcripts in peripheral blood stem cell harvests from patients with t(8;21) acute myelogenous leukaemia.	Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) have been used increasingly for haemopoietic reconstitution after marrow-ablative chemotherapy in patients with acute leukaemia because of the possibility that there is a lower risk of leukaemic contamination. We have developed a titration assay using a competitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) which is able to estimate the number of AML1/ETO transcripts so that minimal residual disease (MRD) can be monitored quantitatively in patients with t(8;21) acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML). Using a qualitative RT-PCR method, AML1/ETO transcripts could be detected in all samples from 15 first PBSC harvests and 11 second PBSC harvests obtained from 15 patients with t(8;21) AML. With our competitive RT-PCR assay, the number of AML1/ETO transcripts was found to be lower in the second PBSC harvest than that in the first in every individual. Furthermore, MRD in PBSC harvests was less than that in the corresponding bone marrow obtained on the day of PBSC collection in the individual patients studied. In 10 patients who received autologous blood stem cell transplantation (ABSCT), we could not find a relationship between the number of AML1/ETO transcripts in the infused PBSC harvests and the clinical outcome after ABSCT. The present study clearly indicates that although PBSC harvests collected after consolidation chemotherapy are contaminated by leukaemic cells, the degree of leukaemic contamination may decrease as chemotherapy is repeated. The mobilization of PBSC by repeated chemotherapy may provide an advantageous source of haemopoietic stem cells for ABSCT.
Expression of interleukin-5 receptors on acute myeloid leukaemia cells: association with immunophenotype and karyotype.	Eosinophilia sometimes occurs in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and several laboratories have reported that cells with the t(8;21) or structural abnormalities of chromosome 16 can proliferate and differentiate to eosinophils in the presence of IL-5 in vitro. However, cases without these chromosomal abnormalities can also have eosinophilia. We investigated the association between the expression of IL-5 receptor (IL-5R) gene, karyotype and phenotype in 35 patients with AML. All cases expressed the IL-3R but the IL-5R gene was expressed predominantly in leukaemic cells with either t(8;21) or CD4-positive immunophenotype and was associated with the presence of eosinophilia.
Primary gastric lymphomas (MALTomas): a nuclear image analysis comparison with lymph node monocytoid B-cells and marginal zones of spleen and Peyer's patches.	Centrocyte-like cells of marginal zones of follicles of gastrointestinal lymphoid tissue, which have their analogous in marginal zone of splenic white pulp and in lymph node monocytoid B-lymphocytes, are thought to be the normal counterpart of lymphomas of MALT (MALTomas). However, the cell population of MALTomas is often polymorphic and also contains cells morphologically different from centrocytes. Since conventional morphologic analysis may not be accurate enough and the phenotype may change in different stages of B-cell lineage, the marginal zone of Peyer's patches (PMZ) and splenic white pulp (SMZ), the lymph node monocytoid B-lymphocytes (ML), 3 nodal monocytoid B-cell lymphomas (L) and 16 gastric MALTomas (M) were studied by means of automated nuclear image analysis for area, irregularity, and chromatin texture assessment. Immunophenotyping on paraffin sections and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detecting monoclonality and t(14-18) chromosome breakpoints at DNA levels, on paraffin section extractions, were also done. In 14 MALTomas, clonal Ig heavy chain rearrangement was detected and in none of these were found t(14-18) chromosome breakpoints. The nuclei of the control group (PMZ, SMZ and ML) showed the same morphologic characteristics, ie. size, irregularity, chromatin texture. MALTomas and nodal lymphomas were distributed into 3 clusters: (1) with larger nuclei, light chromatin (euchromatin-richer) (5 MALTomas, 2 nodal lymphomas together with the control group); (2) nuclei with the same area size, but darker (eterochromatin-richer) (6 MALTomas and 1 nodal lymphoma); (3) with smaller and darker nuclei (5 MALTomas). Chromatin textural differences were maintained in the same nuclear size class in the 3 clusters. Only a few MALTomas had nuclear features not significantly different from controls, inter-case and intra-case variability being evident.
Molecular analysis of infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia: MLL gene rearrangement and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for t(4; 11)(q21; q23).	Molecular techniques to detect MLL (11q23) and AF-4 (4q21) gene rearrangements are being evaluated for use in stratification of patients into prognostic groups. We studied 15 cases of infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with Southern blotting for MLL gene rearrangement and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for t(4;11) fusion transcripts and compared the results to cytogenetic and clinical data. Our results indicate that classic t(4;11)(q21;q23) translocations are detected by RT-PCR; however, unusual 4;11 translocations still require additional investigation. We also extended and updated our original study of MLL gene rearrangement in infant ALL to 40 patients with longer follow-up and show that the group with germline configuration of the MLL gene continues to have an excellent outcome. The results of salvage therapy (bone marrow transplantation or chemotherapy) suggest that transplant may show advantage. Preliminary results of the use of RT-PCR to assess minimal disease are also reported.
p53 overexpression as a marker of poor prognosis in mantle cell lymphomas with t(11;14)(q13;q32).	The t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation, which juxtaposes the BCL1 oncogene with the Ig heavy chain locus, has been associated with an uncommon subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) termed mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). To date, no molecular marker that serves as an indicator of tumor progression or clinical prognosis has been described for NHLs with this translocation. We examined a panel of NHLs with t(11;14) for overexpression of p53 and correlated the results with single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis, karyotypic features, and clinical course. NHLs with t(11;14) were identified from 30 patients. The diagnosis was MCL for 23 of 30, small lymphocytic lymphoma for 4 of 30, and diffuse large-cell lymphoma for 3 of 30 cases. The results of immunohistochemistry analysis using a monoclonal anti-p53 antibody on paraffin-embedded specimens were compared with the SSCP data, the tumor karyotypes, and clinical course of each patient. DNA sequencing of exons was performed on cases that showed conformational changes by SSCP analysis. NHLs from 5 of 23 patients with MCL were positive for p53 overexpression. Deletions of chromosome 17p were identified in 2 of 30 cases, both of which were MCLs showing p53 overexpression. Two of the five MCLs with p53 overexpression showed evidence for TP53 mutations. None of the 18 MCLs negative for p53 overexpression showed conformational changes by SSCP. For these 18 patients with MCLs that did not overexpress p53, the median survival was 63 months, compared with 12 months for the 5 patients with MCLs positive for p53 overexpression (P < .001). These results suggest that p53 overexpression in MCL with t(11;14)(q13;q32) may serve as a marker of poor prognosis.
Loss of heterozygosity at the familial RCC t(3;8) locus in most clear cell renal carcinomas.	Previously, we had observed that more than 80% of clear cell renal carcinomas (RCCs) exhibited loss of heterozygosity (LOH) between the microsatellite markers D3S1285 (in 3p14.1) and D3S1295 (in 3p21.1), a region which includes the protein tyrosine phosphatase gamma locus (PTPRG locus, PTP gamma gene) and the 3p14.2 break of the familial RCC-associated translocation, t(3;8)(p14.2;q24), which has been hypothesized to affect expression of an RCC suppressor gene or oncogene. Using seven microsatellite markers and four markers derived from a PTPRG YAC contig, we have further delineated the 3p14.2 region of LOH in RCCs. Eighty-nine % of clear cell RCCs (31 of 35) showed a common region of loss between the D3S1481 and D3S1312 loci which flank the 3p14.2 t(3;8) translocation breakpoint and the PTP gamma gene. The PTP gamma gene occupies approximately 780 kilobase pairs between markers D3S1480 and D3S1312, with its currently defined 5' end greater than 200 kilobase pairs centromeric to the 3p14.2 translocation break. Although most of the RCCs with LOH between D3S1481 and D3S1312 loci have lost at least a portion of one PTP gamma allele, we have tested all known exons of the remaining PTP gamma gene in a number of the kidney tumors and have not observed mutations. Thus, there may be another gene in the vicinity of the 3p14.2 break that is important not only in the familial RCCs in the t(3;8) family but in the majority of clear cell RCCs.
Trisomy 9p, a chromosome aberration with distinct radiologic findings.	Radiographic analysis of 33 cases of trisomy 9p (21 familial, 12 nonfamilial) disclosed consistent abnormalities in the hands, feet, and pelvic bones, with one exception (subsequently considered a misdiagnosis). Most of the abnormalities were present only during the period of epiphyseal growth and occurred with similar frequency in both familial and nonfamilial cases. There was no correlation between the severity of osseous involvement and the amount of trisomic chromosomal material. The pattern of radiographic findings in trisomy 9p appears to be unique, at least among chromosome aberrations, and may help in establishing a specific diagnosis in nonfamilial cases.
Molecular characterization of trisomic segment 3p24.1-->3pter: a case with review of the literature.	A 1-year-old male infant was found to have a de novo unbalanced translocation, resulting in trisomy for a portion of the short arm of chromosome 3, i.e. 46,XY,der(7)t(3;7) (p24.1;p22). Previous cases with a so-called "trisomy 3p syndrome" were evaluated by GTG banding, while we attempted to characterize the present case by the FISH-technique. The major clinical features included: dysmorphic ears, decreased muscle tone and seizure episodes associated with fever, which are concordant with "trisomy 3p syndrome". The most common malformations of trisomy 3p syndrome are: psychomotor and mental retardation, short neck, hypertelorism/telecanthus and congenital heart defects. Predominantly, the 3p trisomies have been maternally derived and the major mechanism of inheritance is due to a malsegregation of the chromosomes that are involved in a parental balanced translocation. A review of 44 cases from 35 studies revealed that the clinical manifestations have been quite varied, depending upon the amount of 3p2 material in the trisomic state, but interestingly a recognizable pattern of features was obvious in those cases whose cytogenetic findings and clinical histories were known.
Reconsideration of the genetic risk assessment for ethylene oxide exposures.	The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed a genetic risk assessment model for exposures to ethylene oxide utilizing data on the induction of reciprocal translocations in male germ cells [Rhomberg et al. 1990]. This particular approach served as a reasonable initial attempt, albeit somewhat limited with regard to endpoint and only partially attentive to the mechanisms of induction of genetic alterations and the behavior of chromosomes during meiosis. The present paper discusses the scientific basis for a reassessment of the EPA model, providing data and hypotheses related to effective dose to the target cells and shape of the dose-response relationship at low doses, and dose rates. While the present genetic risk assessment approach is discussed in terms of ethylene oxide, it would be applicable to most mutagenic chemicals. The outcome of the discussion is that the genetic risk for exposed males from reciprocal translocation induction will be negligible at low doses since the dose-response curve is likely to be a function of the square of the dose. In addition, the proportion of genetically unbalanced live born offspring in humans arising from reciprocal translocation carriers is less than 10% of the frequency formed through meiotic segregation and fertilization for such carriers. Simply from a consideration of mechanism--namely, the very high probability of DNA repair prior to the next S-phase for a resting oocyte--it would be predicted that there would be a very low to negligible frequency of translocations in female germ cells from ethylene oxide exposure. It is further stressed that additional components of a genetic risk model require a consideration of all germ cell stages in the male, and the inclusion of calculations for point and deletion mutations. Some indications of likely response are presented with these points in mind.
Molecular evidence links lymphomatous polyposis of the gastrointestinal tract with mantle cell lymphoma.	Lymphomatous polyposis (LP) is a subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma manifested by numerous polyps affecting long segments of the gastrointestinal tract. The malignant cells of LP often share morphological and immunophenotypic similarity with cells of nodal-based mantle cell lymphoma. Recent genetic studies have shown that mantle cell lymphomas frequently possess a characteristic translocation of the JH/bcl-1 loci. In this study, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern blot analysis were used to show the presence of JH/bcl-1 translocation in a typical case of LP of the gastrointestinal tract. This provides strong molecular evidence for a biologic link between LP and mantle cell lymphoma. The findings also imply that detection of this translocation may be useful in the diagnosis of morphologically equivocal gastrointestinal biopsy specimens.
A novel human B-cell line (U-2904) bearing t(8;14) and t(14;18) translocations.	Sequential activation of bcl-2 and c-myc appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of rare de novo acute lymphoid leukemias bearing both t(8;14) and t(14;18). Acquisition of t(8;14) by follicular-lymphoma cells with t(14;18) has also been related to the clinical transformation into an overt acute lymphoid leukemia in rare cases reported, and a role for c-myc involvement in the progression of some follicular lymphomas with t(14;18) has been suggested by the detection of c-myc rearrangements in association with histologic transformation. However, c-myc abnormalities different from those observed in Burkitt's lymphoma have been reported in diffuse large-cell lymphomas with breakpoints in 8q24, and a t(8;14) molecularly different from the classical one has been found in follicular lymphomas without t(14;18). We report the preliminary characterization of the EBV-negative cell line U 2904 established from a transformed follicular lymphoma that carries both t(8;14) (q24;q32) and t(14;18) (q32;q21) translocations. U 2904 cells have a mature B-cell phenotype, grow in agarose and are tumorigenic in nude mice. Rearrangements of both c-myc and bcl-2 confirmed the involvement of both oncogenes in the translocations which lead to abundant c-myc and bcl-2 transcripts. Two JH rearrangements and one C alpha rearrangement were observed which did not co-migrate with either c-myc or bcl-2 rearrangements. This is the first report of a cell line bearing both t(8;14) and t(14;18) derived from a follicular lymphoma after documented transformation into a centroblastic lymphoma without leukemic features. U 2904 provides further evidence for the involvement of c-myc in the progression of follicular lymphomas.
The physical map of the chromosome of a serogroup A strain of Neisseria meningitidis shows complex rearrangements relative to the chromosomes of the two mapped strains of the closely related species N. gonorrhoeae.	A physical map of the chromosome of N. meningitidis Z2491 (serogroup A, subgroup IV-1) has been constructed. Z2491 DNA was digested with NheI, SpeI, SgfI, PacI, BglII, or PmeI, resulting in a limited number of fragments that were resolved by contour-clamped homogeneous electric field (CHEF) electrophoresis. The estimated genome size for this strain was 2,226 kb. To construct the map, probes corresponding to single-copy genes or sequences were used on Southern blots of chromosomal DNA digested with the different mapping enzymes and subjected to CHEF electrophoresis. By determining which fragments from different digests hybridized to each specific probe, it was possible to walk back and forth between digests to form a circular macrorestriction map. The intervals between mapped restriction sites range from 10 to 143 kb in size. A total of 117 markers have been placed on the map; 75 represent identified genes, with the remaining markers defined by anonymous cloned fragments of neisserial DNA. Comparison of the arrangement of genetic loci in Z2491 with that in gonococcal strain FA1090, for which a physical map was previously constructed, revealed complex genomic rearrangements between the two strains. Although gene order is generally conserved over much of the chromosome, a region of approximately 500 kb shows translocation and/or inversion of multiple blocks of markers between the two strains. Even within the relatively conserved portions of the maps, several genetic markers are in different positions in Z2491 and FA1090.
Correlation of differentiation-inducing activity of retinoids on human leukemia cell lines HL-60 and NB4.	Retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid, its isomers, and fifty synthetic retinoids (retinobenzoic acids), were tested for differentiation-inducing activity on human leukemia cell lines HL-60 and NB4. A good linear correlation, with an r value of 0.91, between the ED50 values for the differentiation-inducing activity towards HL-60 cells and that towards NB4 cells was found.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization detection of chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes: applicability to biological dosimetry.	Human lymphocytes in G0 have been irradiated with X-ray doses from 0 to 4.0 Gy. Metaphase chromosomes 2, 3 and 5 and all centromeres were painted using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe libraries. Dicentrics, centric rings and acentrics in the whole genome as well as translocations involving the painted chromosomes were recorded. The translocations were subdivided as complete or incomplete. Interstitial insertions and inversions were also noted. The observations were also recorded according to the Protocol for Aberration Identification and Nomenclature Terminology (PAINT) system of scoring. Given that the painted chromosomes comprise 20.4% of the genome it was found that the yield of bicoloured dicentrics was consistent with the yield of dicentrics in the whole genome. The yield of radiation-induced translocations was not significantly higher than that of bicoloured dicentrics. Of the translocations, 60% were complete and it was concluded that the majority of dicentrics and translocations are complete exchanges. Chromosome 5 took part in exchanges marginally more commonly than its length suggests, but it is not known if this is a property of the chromosome or whether it is a donor-dependent observation. The PAINT system of recording rearrangements was examined and the suggested numerical interpretation of this nomenclature was considered to be unsuitable for use in the estimation of dose for cases of accidental overexposure.
Molecular cytogenetic analysis of RB-1 deletions in chronic B-cell leukemias.	Deletions or translocations of 13q, most commonly involving band 13q14, belong to the most frequent structural chromosome abnormalities in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In a combined metaphase and interphase cytogenetic study using conventional G-banding analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization (ISH) we previously analysed the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (RB-1) and its chromosomal locus 13q14 in 35 patients with chronic B-cell leukemias. We report here on the interphase cytogenetic analysis of 109 cases with chronic B-cell leukemias [B-CLL = 90; B-prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL) = 6, hairy cell leukemia (HCL) = 13]; a subset of 49 patients (B-CLL = 45; B-PLL = 4) was studied by conventional G-banding analysis. By G-banding, 5/45 (11%) patients with B-CLL had deletions or translocations affecting band 13q14; in contrast, ISH to interphase cells showed RB-1 deletion in 19/90 (21%) patients with B-CLL. No 13q14 abnormalities or RB-1 deletion were detected in patients with B-PLL and HCL. Our data confirm the high frequency of RB-1 deletions in B-CLL and further emphasize the possible pathogenetic role of this genomic region.
Retinoic acid and acute promyelocytic leukemia: a model of targetting treatment for human cancer.	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is the first example among the human malignancies that responds to differentiation therapy, in that complete remission (CR) can be achieved in up to 90% of patients by using a differentiation inducer, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). The specific chromosomal translocation t(15;17) in APL has been shown to fuse the gene for the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR alpha) with a chromosome 15q locus, PML. Alterations to the RAR alpha and the PML gene structures in the t(15;17) have been characterized and used as specific molecular marker for diagnosis of the disease. PML/RAR alpha antagonizes wild-type PML and RXR and could block the differentiation pathways mediated by these two regulators. A variant translocation t(11;17) has also been discovered in a subset of APL which fuses RAR alpha to a new gene, PLZF on chromosome 11q23. Both PML/RAR alpha and PLZF/RAR alpha display the "dominant negative" effect on the wild-type RAR/RXR. However, t(11;17) APL patients differ from t(15;17) APL in that they respond poorly to ATRA. Morphologically defined APL cases which however do not have PML/RAR alpha generally show no response to ATRA. Recently it has been shown that PML/RAR alpha can be modulated directly by ATRA. All these data support the idea that PML/RAR alpha is a specific target of ATRA which can overcome the differentiation block imposed by PML/RAR alpha. The ATRA treatment of APL thus further reinforces the concept of differentiation therapy.
The human NOTCH1, 2, and 3 genes are located at chromosome positions 9q34, 1p13-p11, and 19p13.2-p13.1 in regions of neoplasia-associated translocation.	In Drosophila the Notch gene controls differentiation to various cell fates in many tissues. Three mammalian Notch homologs have recently been identified: Notch 1, 2, and 3. All three homologs are very highly conserved relative to the Drosophila Notch gene, which suggests that they are important for cell differentiation in mammals. This notion is supported by the previous finding of a truncated, translocated form of the human NOTCH1 gene (formerly TAN1) in three cases of leukemia. Given this genetic link between NOTCH1 and tumor formation, it is of interest to establish the chromosomal positions of the other two homologs. We report the identification of cosmid clones for the human NOTCH1, 2, and 3 genes. These clones were used as probes in fluorescence in situ hybridization to human metaphase chromosomes, and the results, combined with data from somatic cell hybrid panels, show that the NOTCH2 and 3 genes are located at positions 1p13-p11 and 19p13.2-p13.1, respectively, which are regions of neoplasia-associated translocation.
Corticotropin-releasing factor increases protein kinase C activity by elevating membrane-bound alpha and beta isoforms.	Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been shown to attenuate vascular leakage in injured skin, mucous membrane, muscle, lung, and brain. We previously reported that CRF increases cytosolic free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i), cellular cAMP, and inositol trisphosphates in human epidermoid A-431 cells. This study identified protein kinase C isoforms in A-431 cells and investigated the effect of CRF on PKC activity and isoform translocation. PKC alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and zeta isoforms were present in cytosolic and membrane fractions, but the epsilon isoform was detected only in the membrane fraction. Exposure of cells to CRF at 420 pM for 1 min increased PKC activity and led to the translocation of PKC alpha and beta isoforms from cytosol to membrane. The translocation was dependent on an increase in [Ca2+]i, because cells treated with 100 microM BAPTA-am (an intracellular Ca2+ chelator), then exposed to CRF, showed neither increases in PKC activity nor translocation of PKC isoforms. This suggests that a CRF-induced increase in [Ca2+]i mediates the increase in PKC activity.
A truncated Bacillus subtilis SecA protein consisting of the N-terminal 234 amino acid residues forms a complex with Escherichia coli SecA51(ts) protein and complements the protein translocation defect of the secA51 mutant.	Although wild-type Bacillus subtilis SecA barely complements the growth and protein translocation defect of Escherichia coli secA51(ts) at the non-permissive temperature, an N-terminal peptide of B. subtilis SecA complements the defects. To elucidate the mechanism of this complementation, a series of plasmids encoding truncated SecA proteins was constructed and their products were analyzed in E. coli cells. The truncated B. subtilis SecA protein consisting of the N-terminal 234 amino acid residues (BN234) complemented the growth and protein translocation defects of E. coli secA51 but not those of another secA amber mutant, E. coli secA13(ts). BN234 existed in both a soluble form, possibly as a homodimer, and a higher-molecular-weight complex in E. coli strain MM52 (secA51). The purified complex, consisting of at least BN234, SecA51, and ATP-dependent protease La, was held together by a cross-linking reagent, EDAC. The other truncated proteins consisting of the N-terminal 584 or 396 amino acid residues and the C-terminal 607 residues of B. subtilis SecA did not complement the two E. coli mutants or form a complex with SecA51. These results suggest that BN234 and SecA51 proteins form a functional complex in vivo and complement the defects of E. coli MM52.
Cytogenetic analysis in the definition and classification of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas]	Cytogenetic analysis of Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL) taken together with immunophenotypic and genotypic studies, may contribute to better define their morphologic classification. In this review the main cytogenetic data have been summarized, looking at a histopathologic NHL categorization that is related to a modern multiparametric approach. The correlation of non random chromosome abnormalities with NHL categories will augment information about their pathogenesis and tumor progression.
Physical mapping of genetic markers on the short arm of chromosome 5.	The deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 is associated with the cri-du-chat syndrome. In addition, loss of this portion of a chromosome is a common cytogenetic marker in a number of malignancies. However, to date, no genes associated with these disorders have been identified. Physical maps are the first step in isolating causative genes, and genes involved in autosomal recessive disorders are now routinely mapped through the identification of linked markers. Extensive genetic maps based upon polymorphic short tandem repeats (STRs) have provided researchers with a large number of markers to which such disorders can be genetically mapped. However, the physical locations of many of these STRs have not been determined. Toward the goal of integrating the human genetic maps with the physical maps, a 5p somatic cell hybrid deletion mapping panel that was derived from patients with 5p deletions or translocations was used to physically map 47 STRs that have been used to construct genetic maps of 5p. These data will be useful in the localization of disease genes that map to 5p and may be involved in the etiology of the cri-du-chat syndrome.
Analysis of centromeric activity in Robertsonian translocations: implications for a functional acrocentric hierarchy.	Approximately 90% of human Robertsonian translocations occur between nonhomologous acrocentric chromosomes, producing dicentric elements which are stable in meiosis and mitosis, implying that one centromere is functionally inactivated or suppressed. To determine if this suppression is random, centromeric activity in 48 human dicentric Robertsonian translocations was assigned by assessment of the primary constrictions using dual color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Preferential activity/constriction of one centromere was observed in all except three different rearrangements. The activity is meiotically stable since intrafamilial consistency of a preferentially active centromere existed in members of six families. These results support evidence for nonrandom centromeric activity in humans and, more importantly, suggest a functional hierarchy in Robertsonian translocations with the chromosome 14 centromere most often active and the chromosome 15 centromere least often active.
Nucleolus organizer activity and the origin of Robertsonian translocations.	Chromosomes with active nucleolus organizer regions (NOR's) were identified by combined Q-banding (in some cases), and silver staining in mouse cell lines. NOR-bearing chromosomes were overrepresented among the chromosomes involved in Robertsonian translocations in LM(TK-), A9, and RAG cell lines. Usually only one NOR-bearing chromosome was seen in any biarmed chromosome; relatively few contained two NOR-bearing chromosomes. Thus the nucleolus plays an important role, but nucleolar fusion is relatively unimportant, in the origin of Robertsonian translocations in the mouse.
Cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.	A retrospective study of 50 children newly diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) from December 1988 to November 1993 was carried out, examining the disease conditions and cytogenetic abnormalities. Of the 50 children, 8 had no cytogenetic examination of the marrow at the time of diagnosis and 7 had a poor yield from the marrow. Fifty percent of the remaining children had a normal karyotype. The rest of the children had hyperdiploidy and structural chromosomal abnormalities (mainly translocation and deletions) in equal proportions. Overall mortality of the whole group was about 26% with 2 lost to follow-up. There were 2 patients who relapsed while on treatment of whom 1 died. Cytogenetic abnormalities were correlated with clinical variables known to have prognostic significance. The group with hyperdiploidy had a significantly lower mean total white count at presentation and none of them died. The group with translocation abnormalities had a lower mean platelet count at presentation. Almost all in the group with hyperdiploidy and a great majority of the other 2 groups with normal or structural cytogenetic abnormalities were of B cell lineage. The median survival times for the hyperdiploid, normal karyotype and translocation patients were 1800 days, 1450 days and 700 days respectively.
Fetal t(5p;21q) misdiagnosed as monosomy 21: a plea for in situ hybridization studies.	We report a case of 45,XY,-5,-21,+der (5) t(5;21) (p13 or p14;q11.2 or q21) that was prenatally misdiagnosed as complete monosomy 21 and terminated at 24 weeks of gestation. Subsequent fluorescence in situ hybridization studies with a chromosome 21 painting probe documented the cryptic unbalanced translocation.
Identification of marker chromosomes and complex chromosomal translocations, using non radioactive in situ hybridization, in malignant hemopathies]	We describe five patients with hematological malignancies in which fluorescence in situ hybridization technique (FISH) has been combined with classical cytogenetic study for characterizing chromosomal abnormalities. Three of them were chromosome Philadelphia positive; using a 22 chromosome painting probe it was confirmed the presence or absence of a variant complex translocation. In patients 4 and 5, the karyotype showed a marker chromosome which was definitively identified by FISH as a deletion of X chromosome and a 18 ring chromosome, respectively. The value of this methodology in the cytogenetic diagnosis of hematological malignancies is commented.
A chromosome study on 97 cases of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia M2.	Chromosomal studies were performed in the same laboratory on 97 untreated cases of de novo acute nonlymphocytic leukemia M2. The overall incidence of chromosomal abnormality was 70.1% (68 out of 97 cases), which was higher in children (84.2%) than in adults (61%). The male to female chromosomal abnormality ratio was nearly the same (male 71% and female 68.4%, P > 0.05). Hypodiploidy was the most common numerical abnormality (39%) and t (8; 21) was the most common structural abnormality (48.1%). In the patients with t(8; 21), 64.5% (20 out of 31 cases) male lost chromosome Y (-Y) and 33% (5 out of 15 cases) female lost one chromosome X (-X).
The morphological studies on M2/t(8; 21) acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.	Bone marrow studies including morphological, morphometrical and ultrastructural aspects were performed in 35 patients with M2/t(8; 21) and 23 patients with M2/NN. It was found that M2/t(8; 21) patients had higher cellularity in bone marrow. Type (II) myeloblast cells were predominant among myeloblasts. Deformation of nuclei, nucleocytoplasmic asynchronism and dysmegakaryocytopoiesis were more evident in M2/t(8; 21) than in M2/NN patients.
Fluorescent in situ hybridization and second-trimester sonographic anomalies: uses and limitations.	The critical need for rapid and reliable karyotype analysis can be no greater than in the setting of sonographic fetal anomalies. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) directly applied to interphase chromosomes can decrease the time required to identify the common aneuploidies. Our retrospective study reviewed 50 consecutive patients with sonographic fetal anomalies who underwent FISH. Within this high risk group, nonmosaic chromosomal aneuploidies were present in 16% of the fetuses (8 of 50), and 2 additional fetuses had cytogenetic abnormalities: 1 case, 46,XY,-12,+der(12)t(12;13)(p13; q14.1), and 1 case a 10% mosaic for trisomy 21. Of the 10 cytogenetically abnormal fetuses, FISH was able to identify correctly all 8 of the nonmosaic aneuploidies within 2 days of receipt of the specimen in the laboratory. Clinical decisions can be made on the basis of concordant FISH and ultrasound abnormalities, shortening the decision-making process for most of the aneuploid cases. However, our experience demonstrates some of the limitations of current FISH protocols and the continued necessity for formal karyotype analysis.
Familial translocation (X;3) (p22.3;p23): chromosomal in situ suppression (CISS) hybridization and inactivation pattern study.	High-resolution chromosome banding and chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization were used to identify a derivative X in a 10-month-old female patient with congenital heart defect and slight dysmorphism. The unbalanced karyotype was monosomic for Xp22.3-pter and trisomic for 3p23-pter regions. The derivative X was inherited from the mother carrier of a balanced translocation (X;3) (p22.3;p23). Replication study of the patient showed the abnormal X,t(X;3) to be late replicating, except for the translocated segment. This patient demonstrated only epicanthus and congenital heart defect, despite her partial trisomy 3. The clinical phenotype may be less severe when the X-chromosome is involved in an unbalanced translocation.
Detection of BCL2 rearrangement in archival cytological smears of B-cell lymphomas.	The application of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to cytological material represents a promising, relatively noninvasive approach to clinical molecular genetic analysis. The detection rate of the t(14;18), the most common translocation in B-cell lymphomas, which results in rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) and BCL2 genes, has not been examined in archival cytological smears. We studied 10 cases of lymphoma that showed a cytogenetic t(14;18) in a surgical specimen and for which were available both lymphoma DNA from the same specimen and prior or subsequent archival cytological smears, either FNA or exfoliative, diagnosed as positive for lymphoma. The paired DNA samples, respectively extracted from the archival smears and frozen surgical biopsy tissue, representing clinical intervals of up to 20 mo, were studied in each case by PCR with IGH and BCL2 major breakpoint region primers. In four cases, the same clonotypical PCR product was seen in both samples. In four other cases, neither sample yielded a PCR product--these cases were also negative by Southern blotting using a BCL2 major breakpoint region probe. In one case, the PCR product could only be demonstrated in DNA from frozen tissue. Finally, in one other case, a PCR product was only detected in DNA from archival cytological smears. Thus, the overall concordance of PCR results in the paired DNA samples was 80%. Our findings suggest that, in cases of B-cell lymphoma previously characterized by PCR, the t(14;18) can be detected in archival cytological smears in the majority of cases, thereby providing valuable data regarding the clonal derivation of metachronous lymphoma samples in which only cytological material is obtained.
Molecular analysis of the t(1;19)(q23;p13) translocation observed in adult leukemias.	We report three cases of adult leukemias with the t(1;19)(q23;p13) translocation, two with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL:L2) and one with megakaryoblastic crisis of chronic myelocytic leukemia. Only one patient with ALL showed the same E2A/PBX1 fusion transcripts as those observed in childhood ALLs with the t(1;19) by RNA-based polymerase chain reaction. This patient survived for 8 months only from the time of his diagnosis. On the other hand, the other two cases were negative for the E2A/PBX1 fusion and one of them with ALL remains in remission. Our observations suggest that there could be heterogeneity in the molecular events among adult leukemias carrying the t(1;19) and that the E2A/PBX1 fusion formation might also be associated with an adverse treatment outcome in adult leukemias as in childhood leukemias.
Severe microphthalmia, diaphragmatic hernia and Fallot's tetralogy associated with a chromosome 1;15 translocation.	A 9-year-old boy with multiple abnormalities including severe bilateral microphthalmia, diaphragmatic hernia and Fallot's tetralogy is presented. He has also been shown to have an apparently balanced de novo reciprocal translocation, 46,XY,t(1;15)(q41;q21.2), which suggests that one of those breakpoints may be the locus for a gene which is important in morphogenesis.
Application of fluorescence in situ hybridization in defining a complex t(9;21;22) Ph formation.	We describe the application of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in a case of suspected chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), cytogenetically characterized by a t(21;22) with no clear involvement of chromosome 9. The dual color FISH technique, performed using specific painting probes for chromosomes 9,21,22 and a BCR/ABL translocation probe, enabled us to confirm the diagnosis of CML by detecting the BCR/ABL rearrangement on chromosome 22q and the involvement of chromosome 9 in a variant translocation t(9;21;22).
Further characterization of 19 cases of rea(21q21q) and delineation as isochromosomes or Robertsonian translocations in Down syndrome.	We have used 9 conventional RFLPs and 6 dinucleotide repeat polymorphisms on chromosome 21q to demonstrate that 17 of 19 cases of rea(21q21q) were consistent with isochromosomes i(21q) with the remaining 2 being true Robertsonian translocations. Eight of the 17 isochromosomes were of maternal origin and 9 cases were paternally derived. The 2 Robertsonian translocations were both maternally derived. Of the 17 isochromosomes, 7 were dicentric [idic(21q)] and 10 were monocentric [i(21q)]. Both rob(21q21q) were monocentric. Our findings agree with those made in 17 previously published cases of rea(21q21q). The parental origins of the i(21q) were equally divided between maternal (n = 17) and paternal (n = 15) origins. All 4 true rob(21q21q) reported to date are of maternal origin. Collectively, it appears that most homologous rearrangements of chromosome 21 are isochromosomes and only a small proportion are consistent with true Robertsonian translocations.
Molecular mechanisms in Angelman syndrome: a survey of 93 patients.	Angelman syndrome (AS) results from a lack of maternal contribution from chromosome 15q11-13, arising from de novo deletion in most cases or rarely from uniparental disomy. These families are associated with a low recurrence risk. However, in a minority of families, more than one child is affected. No deletion has been found in these families, except one. The mode of inheritance in these families is autosomal dominant modified by imprinting. Sporadic cases, with no observable deletion, therefore pose a counselling dilemma as there could be a recurrence risk as high as 50%. We present a series of 93 AS patients, showing the relative contribution of these different genetic mechanisms. Eighty-one AS patients were sporadic cases while 12 cases came from six families. Sixty cases had deletions in 15q11-13 detected by a set of highly polymorphic (CA)n repeats markers and conventional RFLPs. Ten sporadic cases plus all 12 familial cases had no detectable deletion. In addition, two cases of de novo deletions occurred in a chromosome 15 carrying a pericentric inversion. In one of these the AS child had a cousin with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) arising from a de novo deletion in an inv(15) inherited from his father. One case arose from a maternal balanced t(9;15)(p24;q15) translocation. There were three cases of uniparental disomy. Five patients were monoallelic for all loci across the minimal AS critical region, but the presence of a deletion cannot be confirmed. In familial cases, all affected sibs inherited the same maternal chromosome 15 markers for the region 15q11-13. Two cases were observed with a de novo deletion starting close to the locus D15S11 (IR4-2R), providing evidence for the development of classical AS with smaller deletions. Cytogenetic analysis proved limited in its ability to detect deletions, detecting only 42 out of 60 cases. However, cytogenetic analysis is still essential to detect chromosomal abnormalities other than deletions such as inversions and balanced translocations since both have an increased risk for deletions. A staged diagnostic strategy based on the use of highly informative (CA)n repeat markers is proposed.
Isochromosome 15q of maternal origin in two Prader-Willi syndrome patients previously diagnosed erroneously as cytogenetic deletions.	Since our previous report on two Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) patients with t(15q;15q) (Niikawa and Ishikiriyama; Hum Genet 69:22-27, 1985) was erroneous, we report here new data and a corrected interpretation. Reexamination of the parental origin of their t(15q;15q) using polymorphic DNA markers that are mapped to various regions of 15q documented no molecular deletions at the 15q11-q13 region in either patient. Both patients were homozygous at all loci examined and their haplotypes on 15q coincided with one of those in their respective mothers. These results indicate that the presumed t(15q;15q) in each patient was actually an isochromosome 15q producing maternal uniparental disomy, consistent with genomic imprinting at the PWS locus.
Mapping of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome to Xq25-q27.	Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome (SGBS) is an X-linked gigantism syndrome characterized primarily by a coarse facies and somatic overgrowth which we have observed to be associated with an increased risk for embryonal tumors. Genetic linkage analysis for two SGBS kindreds in which X linked dominant inheritance was observed has been conducted for the X chromosome. The closest linkage to SGBS was observed for the Xq26 locus HPRT (Z max = 7.45, theta max = 0.00). SGBS-Xq marker recombinations map the disease locus to the DXS425-DXS1123 interval on Xq25-q27. This maps the disease locus to a region known to contain a previously characterized chromosomal translocation breakpoint found in a young girl with somatic overgrowth. This observation may have implications for the cloning of the SGBS gene.
Craniosynostosis and hemizygosity for D7S135 caused by a de novo and apparently balanced t(6;7) translocation.	Craniosynostosis (CRS) is frequently seen in the del(7p) syndrome, and the gene for this cranial anomaly (CRS1) has been assigned to 7p21. We present a 3-year-old boy with CRS involving the sagittal and coronal sutures, who had a de novo and apparently balanced translocation, t(6;7)(q16.2;p15.3). Southern blot analysis of several loci on 7p14-->pter showed that the patient was heterozygous for HOX1I and IL6, possibly homozygous for D7S149, but hemizygous for D7S135 with a loss of the paternal allele. These findings suggest the localization of a candidate gene for CRS1 to be on 7p15.3 in the close proximity to the D7S135 locus.
Construction of mouse chromosome-specific DNA libraries and their use for the detection of X-ray-induced aberrations.	We describe here the development of mouse chromosome-specific DNA libraries and their use in the detection of radiation-induced chromosome aberrations by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Large metacentric chromosomes, resulting from a translocation involving chromosomes 1, 11 and 13, were flow-sorted. Using a slit-scan technique for morphometric analysis, metacentric chromosomes were separated from normal acrocentric chromosomes and their aggregates. DNA from the metacentric chromosomes was amplified by PCR using the linker/adaptor method. In this pilot study, mouse was whole-body irradiated with 1, 2 and 3 Gy and aberrations were scored in metaphase spreads of splenocytes cultured in vitro. The results indicate that directly after radiation exposure, stable and unstable aberrations are induced at about equal frequencies in the splenocytes. The availability of chromosome-specific probes for mouse may prove very useful when analysing the behaviour of stable aberrations, as well as the testing of many suspected mutagenic carcinogens and aneugens in vivo for induction of chromosomal translocations and non-disjunction, respectively.
Multiple cases of trisomy 9p/distal monosomy 18p in a family due to inherited translocation t (9:18).	A case of trisomy 9p/monosomy 18p in four members of a family is described. The mechanism of meiotic segregation is discussed in the sibs' mothers who are carriers of a balanced translocation t(9:18) (p 11.2; p 11.3). The phenotype is typical for this chromosome abnormality.
Male infertility of chromosomal origin]	Cytogenetic studies in infertile men showed that chromosomal anomalies were more frequent in these patients than in general population. Sex chromosome anomalies, specially 47, XYY karyotype, are predominant by their frequency at the severity of testicular impair. Nevertheless, balanced autosomal rearrangements can also induce spermatogenic failure; they were of great interest in perfecting the hypothesis which try to explain germ cells atresia. Three mechanisms are proposed: --X-autosome interaction; --synaptic failure; both could lead to a metabolic disorder and death of the germ cell; --somatic lesions of the gonad could also induce this degenerative process. Techniques of molecular biology joined up to cytogenetic investigations of meiosis will lead to a better understanding of the chromosomal male sterility.
The etiology of Burkitt's lymphoma and the history of the shaken dogmas.	The etiology of Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) includes three factors which operate in a stepwise fashion: (1) the ubiquitous Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) which possesses oncogenic potential when it infects infants or very young children; (2) malaria which specifically depresses cytotoxic T cell clones controlling the polyclonal proliferation of EBV-infected B cells in the host; and (3) chromosomal translocations activating the c-myc oncogene which in turn induces uncontrolled B cell proliferation. The unravelling of such a multistep carcinogenic process has shaken a number of well-established dogmas of our time.
A novel translocation, t(9;11)(q33;q23) involving the HRX gene in an acute monocytic leukemia.	A t(9;11)(q33;q23) has been detected by chromosome painting with chromosome 11- and chromosome 9-specific probes in blast cells of a child with acute monocytic leukemia. Using a YAC clone spanning the usual breakpoint region of translocations of acute leukemias, it was shown that the breakpoint was effectively within the same region of the band 11q23. This was confirmed by Southern blot studies that showed the localization of the translocation breakpoint between the 6th and 8th exons of the HRX gene. The implication of the HRX gene in t(9;11)(q33;q23) is a novel example of the diversity of translocations involving this gene in hemopoietic disorders. Sequencing DNA in the vicinity of the breakpoints should help to understand the reason of the localization of the recombination hot spot at band 11q23.
An evaluation of the prognostic significance of the structure of the chromosomal translocation t (9; 22) locus in chronic myeloleukemia]	The site of the break of chromosome 22 was investigated by blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction in 41 patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). It is stated that the break site in various regions is not associated with the disease stage and clinicohematological manifestations in the time of the diagnosis. The break in the 5' subregion was indicative of longer survival than that in the subregion 3' patients. Median survival reached 60.8 and 32.4 months, respectively.
Cytogenetics in CLL and related disorders.	Chromosome analysis of more than 1200 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia reported to the International Working Party on Chromosomes in CLL and in the literature is analysed. Clonal chromosomal abnormalities are found in about half of the patients, and one third of those with clonal aberrations have trisomy 12, with or without additional changes. The most common structural abnormalities involve the long arm of chromosome 13, usually as deletions involving 13q14, the site of the retinoblastoma gene. Other recurrent abnormalities are deletions of the long arms of chromosome 11 and 6. 14q+ markers are frequent in patients at advanced stage, but are almost always within complex abnormalities. The number of clonal abnormalities in the CLL cells has a strong prognostic impact. Trisomy 12 as a single abnormality is an adverse prognostic sign, whereas patients with 13q abnormalities generally do comparatively well. Lymphoid leukaemia with monoclonal immunoglobulin secretion frequently involves clonal chromosomal abnormalities, and the type of change is similar to that seen in true CLL. In B cell prolymphocytic leukaemia, t(11;14) is a common finding, together with trisomy 12. T cell prolymphocytic leukaemia is characterized by an inversion of the long arm of chromosome 14, with breaks at q11 and q32, and trisomy of 8q, whereas large granular lymphocytic leukaemia has shown no consistent abnormality. Hairy cell leukaemia seems to involve a specific set of non-random chromosome abnormalities, such as inv(5)9.
Clear cell sarcoma of the tendons and aponeuroses]	Clear cell sarcoma of tendons and aponeuroses is a rare mesenchymal tumor in childhood. It is difficult to treat and its prognosis is bad.
Granulocytic sarcoma with mediastinal involvement]	Granulocytic sarcoma is more frequent in adults; it can be a tumoral localization of acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia. This report describes an infantile case revealing an acute myeloid leukemia.
Expression and nuclear translocation of the rel/NF-kappa B-related morphogen dorsal during the immune response of Drosophila.	The rel/NF-kappa B-related morphogen dorsal is a maternally expressed gene which is involved in the control of the dorso-ventral axis during early embryogenesis of Drosophila. We show that this gene is also expressed in the fat body of larvae and adults of Drosophila as well as in a tumorous blood cell line: its expression is noticeably enhanced upon bacterial (or lipopolysaccharide) challenge. This challenge also induces within 15-30 min a nuclear translocation of the dorsal protein. The genes encoding inducible antibacterial peptides in Drosophila contain kappa B-related nucleotide sequences and we show that the dorsal protein can bind to such motifs and sequence-specifically transactivate a reporter gene in co-transfection experiments with a Drosophila cell line. However, in dl1 mutants, in the absence of dorsal protein, the genes encoding antibacterial peptides retain their inducibility, suggesting a multifactorial control. The results indicate that in addition to its role in embryogenesis, dorsal is involved in the immune response of Drosophila. They also strengthen the analogy between the mammalian acute phase response and the insect immune response.
Chromosomal mosaicism in two patients with epidermal verrucous nevus. Demonstration of chromosomal breakpoint.	Linear epidermal nevi are hamartomas that originate in embryonic ectoderm. For epidermal nevi associated with involvement of other systems, such as the skeleton or central nervous system, the term epidermal nevus syndrome has been introduced. Chromosomal aberrations have been suggested but not proven as an underlying cause. We performed cytogenetic studies of skin cells from two unrelated men who had a verruciform epidermal nevus. Variegated translocation mosaicism with an identical breakpoint localized at the long arm of chromosome 1 was present in both patients. Normal skin and blood lymphocytes showed normal karyotypes.
Characteristic clinical features and treatment of acute myelocytic leukemia with 8;21 translocation]	From 1981 to 1992 forty acute myelocytic leukemia patients with the 8;21 translocation [t (8;21) AML] were treated with intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Their ages ranged from 12 to 81 years at the time of diagnosis. The 8;21 translocation occurred in 13.8% of all patients with AML. Of the 40 t (8;21) AML patients, 10 (25.0%) developed extramedullary tumors at sites such as mastoid, orbit and temporal region. This occurred more commonly among younger patients. Thirty-eight of the 40 patients (95.0%) achieved complete remission (CR). Of these 38 patients, 36 received post-remission chemotherapy. Since 1984, 29 consecutive patients have been given cranial irradiation, 24Gy, for prophylaxis and treatment of leukemic tumors. The twelve years remission and survival rate for this group are 68.3% and 62.1%, respectively. Of the 38 patients achieving CR, in those over 30 years of age at the time of diagnosis, 19 of 23 remain in first remission, whereas in the younger patients 5 of 13 have relapsed. The duration of CR of patients who developed extramedullary tumors was shorter than that of patients without such tumors. A second CR was achieved in 7 of 9 recurrent cases. Three remain in remission 21, 45, and 117 months after chemotherapy and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. We attribute the very long duration of CR in our patients with t (8;21) AML to the intensive post remission therapy. Younger patients with t (8;21) AML and/or extramedullary tumors probably should receive early bone marrow transplantation.
New strategy for diagnosis and treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with t (15;17)]	All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-therapy against acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is epoch-making in the sense of the first success in both tumor-differentiation therapy and molecule-targeted therapy. Kouseishou APL-study group performed three clinical studies to refractory APL with ATRA from 1990 to 1993. Complete remission (CR) was obtained in 82%, 88% and 78% of 22, 41 and 46 patients, respectively. Molecular diagnosis of the t (15;17) translocation was possible using Southern blot analysis and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Cytogenetic and molecular analysis of pediatric neoplasms: diagnostic and clinical implications.	Recurring chromosome changes, particularly those closely associated with specific subtypes of tumors, have provided critical clues to the location of the genes involved in the genesis of these tumors. These, in turn, have led to the cloning of these genes, especially those located at translocation breakpoints in leukemias, lymphomas, and sarcomas. The immediate consequence of the cloning of these genes is to provide DNA probes for various diagnostic tests, including standard Southern blot analysis, the polymerase chain reaction, and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Because many of these chromosome rearrangements are associated with either an improved or a poorer survival, karyotypic abnormalities provide prognostic information. In the future, more sophisticated understanding of the genes involved and of the nature of their altered function should lead to improved therapy.
Improved diagnostic accuracy in needle biopsy interpretation using molecular probes.	A prospective study of computed tomographically guided core needle biopsy samples was done to determine whether diagnostic accuracy could be improved in these specimens. Eighteen specimens from 16 patients were analyzed by routine and immunohistochemical stains on paraffin-embedded tissue and DNA probe hybridization on frozen tissue. Pathologic diagnoses based on light microscopy and immunostaining were malignant lymphoma (8), lymphoid tissue (1), malignant tumor (3), fibrous tissue (2), fatty liver and hepatic adenoma (2), giant cell tumor (1), and necrotic tissue (1). Analyzable DNA was obtained from nine specimens (50%); 67% of those yielding insufficient DNA (six of nine) were samples of benign liver, connective tissue, and necrotic tissue. Extracted DNA was hybridized with probes for JH, JK, CT beta, and bc/II. In 67% of analyzable cases (six of nine) the diagnosis of lymphoma was confirmed; in 33% the diagnosis of lymphoma or nonlymphoma was aided or resolved when the pathologic diagnosis was uncertain. Of the eight cases of lymphoma diagnosed by light microscopy, six were confirmed by genotyping and two yielded insufficient DNA for analysis. In all nine cases with sufficient DNA, hybridization identified B-cell monoclonality and confirmed or excluded follicular center cell origin, data not uniformly obtained with other studies. Molecular analysis can be a useful adjunct to routine methods of diagnosis of needle specimens, improving diagnostic accuracy in at least one-third of cases.
Two cases of Y; autosome translocations: A 45,X male and a clinically trisomy 18 patient.	We report on 2 cases of Y; autosome translocations. One is a male with normal external genitalia and 45,X karyotype without evidence of mosaicism or apparent translocation on cytogenetic analysis. In situ hybridization showed that the euchromatic portion of the Y-chromosome is translocated to the chromosome 15. The other case is a clinically trisomy 18 male patient, with modal number of 46, a small metacentric marker with appearance of an i(18p) and cytogenetic and molecular evidence of Y;18 translocation. The occurrence of Y;18 translocation associated with clinical signs of trisomy 18 is reported here for the first time.
Cytogenetic features of infants less than 12 months of age at diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia: impact of the 11q23 breakpoint on outcome: a report of the Childrens Cancer Group.	Cytogenetic analyses of pretreatment bone marrows were performed at local institutions as part of Childrens Cancer Group (CCG) protocol CCG-107 for infants less than 1 year of age with previously untreated acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Cytogenetic analyses from 39 patients (17 males and 22 females) were accepted after review. Several unique cytogenetic features were observed. Twelve patients (31%) had a t(4;11)(q21;q23) and had a significantly shorter event-free survival (EFS) than did the other patients with adequate cytogenetic analyses (P = .009). Five additional patients had an 11q23 breakpoint, not associated with 4q21. When EFS for these 5 patients was compared with that of the t(4;11) patients, even with these small numbers there was a strong, although not significant, suggestion that the t(4;11) patients have a reduced EFS (P = .09), indicating that the specific translocation, t(4;11)(q21;q23), and not an 11q23 breakpoint per se, may be associated with the poor prognosis of these infants. Structural abnormalities were present in 27 of 28 patients with abnormal karyotypes. A new recurring abnormality, t(5;15)(p15:1;q11) or t(5;15)(p15.3;q13), was identified in 3 patients (Arthur et al, Blood 70:274a, 1987 [abstr, suppl 1]). Two females had structural abnormalities involving Xp11, a breakpoint rarely seen in ALL. Fourteen (36%) patients had a single structural abnormality, and 13 (33%) had complex karyotypes. No patients had hyperdiploidy with more than 50 chromosomes. Only normal chromosomes were observed in 11 patients (28%), and their outcome did not differ from patients with abnormal karyotypes. These cytogenetic abnormalities found in the leukemic cells of infants are clearly different from those in older children and adults, and may explain, in part, the unique biologic characteristics of infant ALL.
Construction of a YAC contig and a STS map spanning at least seven megabasepairs in chromosome 5q34-35.	We have constructed a YAC contig containing 54 clones and a minimum of 7 Mbp of human DNA, that maps to bands q34-35 on chromosome 5. The contig was nucleated using FISH mapped cosmid clones shown to flank the t(2;5)(p23;q35) translocation breakpoint in a CD30-positive large cell lymphoma cell line. Thirty of the 54 YAC clones are non-chimeric and six span the translocation breakpoint, as determined by FISH analysis. A total of 28 YAC clone end fragments, 14 non-polymorphic YAC end STS probes and 13 polymorphic microsatellite STS markers have been used to order clones within the contig. The most distal genetic markers (D5S498 and D5S619) are separated by 15 cM based on multipoint linkage analysis. This map of overlapping clones and the set of densely spaced physical markers will promote our understanding of the 5q34-35 region and its associated genes.
Introgression of Elymus trachycaulus chromatin into common wheat.	A number of wheat-Elymus trachycaulus (2n = 4x = 28, genomically StStHtHt) chromosome addition, substitution, and translocation lines were isolated from the derivatives of an E. trachycaulus x wheat hybrid. Eighteen out of a total of 28 chromosome arms of E. trachycaulus were recovered in the addition lines. The genomic affinity of individual E. trachycaulus chromosomes was analysed by comparative chromosome banding and in situ hybridization using genome-specific repetitive DNA sequences as probes. The homoeology of the E. trachycaulus chromosomes added to wheat was determined by storage protein, isozyme, and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Alloplasmic wheat-E. trachycaulus chromosome additions were isolated which only involved chromosome 1Ht and 1St that carry fertility restoration gene Rf-Ht1 and Rf-St1, respectively. Based on the results of production and characterization of a wheat-E. trachycaulus 5Ht(5B) substitution line, it is likely that some wheat chromosomes can be well compensated genetically by E. trachycaulus chromosomes. Several spontaneous wheat-E. trachycaulus chromosome translocation lines were detected. All the translocation lines involved either 1Ht or 1St. To estimate the potential of recombination between wheat and E. trachycaulus chromosomes, a backcross population derived from a plant which was double monosomic for chromosomes 7A and 7AL.7AS-1StS and a ph1b gene was developed. The plants from this population were analysed for 1St-specific genetic markers and no recombinant was recovered.
Meiosis in chromosomally heteromorphic goitered gazelle, Gazella subgutturosa (Artiodactyla, Bovidae).	Chromosomal-pairing behaviour was studied in the spermatocytes of individual goitered gazelles which were heteromorphic for a 14/15 Robertsonian translocation and which possessed an autosome-to-X translocation. Both translocations exhibited trivalent pairing configurations in pachytene and diakinesis/metaphase I nuclei. Synapsis of the sex chromosomes during pachynema was followed by end-to-end association of the X and Y during diakinesis/metaphase I. The only univalents identified were of the Y chromosome; Y univalency ranged from 15.9% at pachynema to 5.7% at diakinesis/metaphase I. Robertsonian trivalents exhibited evidence of synaptic adjustment in the paracentromeric region. Chiasmata were formed in most bivalents and trivalents; chiasmata were restricted to the autosomal portion of the autosome-to-XY trivalent. Analysis of metaphase II configurations (secondary spermatocytes) revealed no nondisjunction in individuals homozygous or heterozygous for the Robertsonian translocation. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that neither the autosomal nor the gonosomal heteromorphism reduces the meiotic fitness of male goitered gazelles.
Different species-specific chromosome translocations in Triticum timopheevii and T. turgidum support the diphyletic origin of polyploid wheats.	Triticum timopheevii ssp. timopheevii and T. timopheevii ssp. araraticum were analysed by sequential N-banding and genomic in situ hybridization. Three chromosomes, 6At, 1G and 4G, were involved in At-G intergenomic translocations in all six lines analysed. These chromosomes may be derived from a cyclic translocation that is species-specific to T. timopheevii. In contrast, Triticum turgidum has a species-specific cyclic translocation involving chromosomes 4A, 5A and 7B. The discovery of different species-specific chromosome translocations supports the diphyletic hypothesis of the evolution of tetraploid wheats. The results from genomic blocking analysis also revealed that the chromosomes of Aegilops speltoides are closer to the G genome than the B genome chromosomes. The possible role of species-specific translocations in the evolution of wheat is discussed.
Alphoid DNA diversity of a so-called monocentric Robertsonian fusion.	The centromeric heterochromatin of a Robertsonian translocation with t(13q14q), thought to be monocentric by conventional staining methods, was found to be dicentric using molecular techniques. The breakpoints were confined within the alphoid DNA subfamilies and fusion resulted in a compound centromere. The fragile nature of alphoid DNA sequences during Robertsonian translocation has opened new avenues in understanding other chromosomal aberrations involving centric fusion.
Sequence analysis of the breakpoint cluster region in the ALL-1 gene involved in acute leukemia.	DNA rearrangements caused by chromosome translocations between band 11q23 and various chromosomes can be detected by a single probe, B859, an 859-base pair complementary DNA fragment derived from the human ALL-1 gene. To try to understand why band 11q23 becomes a frequent target of the translocations, we have sequenced the entire breakpoint cluster region, a 8342-base pair BamHI genomic fragment delineated by B859. We found eight Alu repeats located within this region in the same orientation as the ALL-1 gene. We have also analyzed the sequences of the breakpoints in 10 patients with 6 different types of 11q23 aberration. In five patients the breaks coincided with Alu sequences on chromosome 11, but not on the partner chromosomes. Also, seven of the breaks occurred in the region delineated by exons 6 and 7, which is composed mainly of Alu sequences. In three patients topoisomerase II recognition site-like sequences, at different stringency levels, were identified at the breakpoints on chromosome 11. We conclude that while there is no specific sequence element present at all the breakpoints, the high density of Alu sequences in the breakpoint cluster region possibly makes the latter more prone to recombination events.
Chemical mutagenesis testing in Drosophila. X. Results of 70 coded chemicals tested for the National Toxicology Program.	Seventy chemicals were tested for the ability to induce sex-linked recessive lethal (SLRL) mutations in postmeiotic and meiotic germ cells of male Drosophila melanogaster. As in the previous studies in this series, adult feeding was chosen as the first route of administration. If the compound failed to induce mutations by this route, injection exposure was used. Two chemicals, n-butane and propylene, were gaseous and therefore tested only by inhalation. One chemical (dimethylcarbamoyl chloride) was tested only by injection. Those chemicals that were mutagenic in the SLRL assay were further tested for the ability to induce reciprocal translocations. Sixteen of the 70 chemicals tested were mutagenic in the SLRL assay: 3-chloro-2-methylpropene, 3-(chloromethyl)pyridine HCl, dimethylcarbamoyl chloride, HC blue 1,3-iodo-1,2-propanediol, malaoxon, N,N'-methylene-bis-acrylamide, 4,4'-methylenedianiline 2HCl, ziram, cis-dichlorodiaminoplatinum II, 1,2-dibromoethane, dibromomannitol, 1,2-epoxypropane, glycidol, myleran, and toluene diisocyanate. The last seven also induced reciprocal translocations. A comparison of the results from the SLRL assay with other assays for mutagens and carcinogens suggests that the SLRL assay is highly specific, but poorly sensitive, both for mutagens and potential carcinogens.
Hemangiopericytoma of the tongue in a 12-year-old child: ultrastructural and cytogenetic observations.	We report a case of hemangiopericytoma arising from the tongue of a 12-year-old child. Ultrastructurally, tumor cells revealed discontinuous basal lamina, intermediate-type intercellular junctions, subplasmalemmal thickenings, and smooth muscle-type cytoplasmic filaments. In addition, occasional oligocilia and test tube-like inclusions were observed. Karyotypic analysis of the tumor cells revealed two balanced translocations that have not been reported previously in pediatric solid tumors: one involved chromosomes 1 and 3, t(1;3)(p22;q21), and the other involved chromosomes 7 and 12, t(7;12)(p22;q13). This is the first report of cytogenetic aberrations in a pediatric hemangiopericytoma. Correlation with genetic findings in adult hemangiopericytomas suggests that the chromosome 12q13 rearrangement might be of particular importance.
Detection of tumor cells in purged bone marrow and peripheral-blood mononuclear cells by polymerase chain reaction amplification of bcl-2 translocations.	To compare bone marrow (BM) before and after purging with monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) and complement with peripheral-blood mononuclear cells (PBMNCs) for tumor-cell contamination by amplification of t(14;18) sequences using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
The use of fluorescence in-situ hybridisation to clarify abnormal Y chromosomes in two infertile men.	To characterise the structurally abnormal Y chromosomes present in two infertile men by means of the molecular technique of fluorescence in-situ hybridisation (FISH).
DNA-binding and transcriptional activation properties of the EWS-FLI-1 fusion protein resulting from the t(11;22) translocation in Ewing sarcoma.	The 5' half of the EWS gene has recently been described to be fused to the 3' regions of genes encoding the DNA-binding domain of several transcriptional regulators, including ATF1, FLI-1, and ERG, in several human tumors. The most frequent occurrence of this situation results from the t(11;22)(q24;q12) chromosome translocation specific for Ewing sarcoma (ES) and related tumors which joins EWS sequences to the 3' half of FLI-1, which encodes a member of the Ets family of transcriptional regulators. We show here that this chimeric gene encodes an EWS-FLI-1 nuclear protein which binds DNA with the same sequence specificity as the wild-type parental FLI-1 protein. We further show that EWS-FLI-1 is an efficient sequence-specific transcriptional activator of model promoters containing FLI-1 (Ets)-binding sites, a property which is strictly dependent on the presence of its EWS domain. Comparison of the properties of the N-terminal activation domain of FLI-1 to those of the EWS domain of the fusion protein indicates that EWS-FLI-1 has altered transcriptional activation properties compared with FLI-1. These results suggest that EWS-FLI-1 contributes to the transformed phenotype of ES tumor cells by inducing the deregulated and/or unscheduled activation of genes normally responsive to FLI-1 or to other close members of the Ets family. ES and related tumors are characterized by an elevated level of c-myc expression. We show that EWS-FLI-1 is a transactivator of the c-myc promoter, suggesting that upregulation of c-myc expression is under control of EWS-FLI-1.
PEBP2 alpha B/mouse AML1 consists of multiple isoforms that possess differential transactivation potentials.	A murine transcription factor, PEBP2, is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta. There are two genes in the mouse genome, PEBP2 alpha A and PEBP2 alpha B, which encode the alpha subunit. Two types of the alpha B cDNA clones, alpha B1 and alpha B2, were isolated from mouse fibroblasts and characterized. They were found to represent 3.8- and 7.9-kb transcripts, respectively. The 3.8-kb RNA encodes the previously described alpha B protein referred to as alpha B1, while the 7.9-kb RNA encodes a 387-amino-acid protein, termed alpha B2, which is identical to alpha B1 except that it has an internal deletion of 64 amino acid residues. Both alpha B1 and alpha B2 associate with PEBP2 beta and form a heterodimer. The alpha B2/beta complex binds to the PEBP2 binding site two- to threefold more strongly than the alpha B1/beta complex does. alpha B1 stimulates transcription through the PEBP2 site about 40-fold, while alpha B2 is only about 25 to 45% as active as alpha B1. Transactivation domain is located downstream of the 128-amino-acid runt homology region, referred to as the Runt domain. Mouse chromosome mapping studies revealed that alpha A, alpha B, and beta genes are mapped to chromosomes 17, 16, and 8, respectively. The last two genes are syntenic with the human AML1 on chromosome 21q22 and PEBP2 beta/CBF beta on 16q22 detected at the breakpoints of characteristic chromosome translocations of the two different subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia. These results suggest that previously described chimeric gene products, AML1/MTG8(ETO) and AML1-EAP generated by t(8;21) and t(3;21), respectively, lack the transactivation domain of AML1.
DNA-binding specificity and trans-activating potential of the leukemia-associated E2A-hepatic leukemia factor fusion protein.	Hybrid transcription factors, resulting from gene fusions in the wake of chromosomal translocations, have been implicated in leukemogenesis, but their precise contributions to oncogenic conversion remain unclear. The E2A-HLF fusion gene, formed by a t(17;19)(q22;p13) in childhood pro-B-cell acute lymphoid leukemia, encodes a hybrid protein that contains the trans-activation domain of E2A (E12/E47) linked to the bZIP DNA-binding and dimerization domain of hepatic leukemia factor (HLF). Here we report that both HLF and E2A-HLF bind to a 10-bp consensus sequence, 5'-GTTACGTAAT-3', with a core dyad-symmetric motif characteristic of the bZIP scissors-grip model of DNA binding. A probe containing this sequence bound chimeric E2A-HLF proteins in nuclear extracts of a leukemic cell line (UOC-B1) containing the t(17;19), as demonstrated by complexes supershifted with antibodies specific for amino-terminal epitopes of E2A or carboxyl-terminal eptiopes of HLF. E2A-HLF functioned as a potent trans activator of reporter gene expression from a plasmid that contained the consensus DNA-binding sequence. Interestingly, wild-type HLF was restricted in its capacity to act as a trans activator, functioning in human fetal kidney cells but not HepG2 hepatocarcinoma cells or NIH 3T3 mouse fibroblasts. The ability of the E2A-HLF hybrid protein to bind DNA in a sequence-specific manner and trans activate the expression of artificial reporter genes suggests that it could subvert transcriptional programs that normally control the growth, differentiation, and survival of lymphoid progenitor cells.
The BCMA gene, preferentially expressed during B lymphoid maturation, is bidirectionally transcribed.	In a previous study of a t(4;16)(q26;p13) translocation, found in a human malignant T-cell lymphoma the BCMA gene, located on chromosome band 16p13.1, has been characterized. In this study we show that the BCMA gene is organized into three exons and its major initiation transcription site is located 69 nucleotides downstream of a TATA box. RNase protection assays demonstrated that the BCMA gene is preferentially expressed in mature B cells, suggesting a role for this gene in the B-cell developmental process. A cDNA complementary to the BCMA cDNA was cloned and sequenced and its presence was assessed by RNase protection assay and anchor-PCR amplification. This antisense-BCMA RNA is transcribed from the same locus as BCMA, and exhibits mRNA characteristic features, e.g. polyadenylation and splicing. It also contains an ORF encoding a putative 115 aa polypeptide, presenting no homology with already known sequences. RNase protection assays demonstrated the simultaneous expression of natural sense and antisense-BCMA transcripts in the majority of human B-cell lines tested.
Detection of chromosome 11q23 involving translocations by pulsed field gel electrophoresis.	Translocations involving chromosome band 11q23 are associated with acute lymphocytic and myelomonocytic leukemias with poor clinical prognosis. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was used to characterize the breakpoint region that has been mapped within a 300-kb fragment between the genes CD3G and PBGD. Using CD3G as a marker on SfuI-restricted DNA separated by PFGE, we detected a rearrangement involving 11q23 in the cell line B1 with a t(4;11) and in the leukemic cells of two patients, one with a t(2;11) and one with a t(11;19). In comparison, lymphoblastoid cell lines established from normal peripheral blood lymphocytes of these two patients had a normal karyotype and showed germline configuration, thus excluding RFL polymorphisms. Digestion of DNA with BssHII or SalI showed heterogeneity of 11q23 involving breakpoints. A rearrangement in the t(4;11) containing lymphoma cell line Karpas422 was seen only with the chromosome 4 probe KIT on SalI-digested DNA. PFGE is a reliable method for the mapping and detection of complex breakpoint regions. The breakpoints on 11q23 involve different introns of the highly spliced HRX/ALL-1/MLL gene.
LAZ3 rearrangements in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: correlation with histology, immunophenotype, karyotype, and clinical outcome in 217 patients.	We have recently shown that an evolutionary conserved gene LAZ3, encoding a zinc finger protein, is disrupted and overexpressed in some B-cell lymphomas (mainly with a large cell component) that show chromosomal rearrangements involving 3q27. Because the breakpoints involved in these rearrangements are focused in a narrow major translocation cluster (MTC) on chromosome 3, we used genomic probes from this region to study the molecular rearrangements of LAZ3 in a large series of patients (217) with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Southern blot analysis showed LAZ3 rearrangement in 43 patients (19.8%). Rearrangement was found in 11 of the 84 patients (13%) with follicular lymphoma but was most frequent in aggressive lymphoma (diffuse mixed, diffuse large cell, and large cell immunoblastic subtypes), in which 31 of the 114 patients (27%) were affected. The highest proportion of LAZ3 alteration was observed in B-cell aggressive lymphoma (26 of 71 cases, 37%). Eleven of the 32 patients with 3q27 chromosomal abnormality had no LAZ3 rearrangement, suggesting the possibility of LAZ3 involvement outside the MTC. On the other hand, 18 of the 39 patients with LAZ3 rearrangement and available cytogenetic results did not have visible chromosomal break at 3q27, suggesting that almost a half of the rearrangements are not detectable by cytogenetic methods. No statistical association could be found between LAZ3 status and initial features of the disease or clinical outcome in either follicular or aggressive lymphomas. We conclude that LAZ3 alteration is a relatively frequent event in B-cell lymphoma, especially in those of aggressive histology. It could be used as a genomic marker of the disease, and further studies are needed to clarify clinical implications of these alterations.
Clinical and morphologic features of B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma with del(6)(q21q23).	Deletions of the long arm of chromosome 6 have been described in acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (ALL and CLL) and prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL), and have been associated with t(14;18)(q32;q21) in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Of 55 cases of small lymphocytic (sm lym) NHL, deletions of 6(q21q23) were the most common recurring cytogenetic abnormality. Among 14 sm lym NHL with del(6)(q21q23), this abnormality occurred as a solitary change in 3 cases. Each of these 3 cases, and 5 additional cases with del(6q) and other abnormalities, showed atypical larger forms with the morphologic appearance of prolymphocytes or paraimmunoblasts in the peripheral blood. In comparison, of the 11 cases without del(6q) and circulating abnormal cells, prolymphocytoid forms were observed in 4 cases (P < .001). Of the 31 sm lym without del(6q), trisomies of chromosomes 3, 12, or 18, or t(11;14)(q13;q32) occurred in greater than 10% of cases. Proliferation centers or infiltration by larger forms were observed in similar proportions of tissue sections derived from sm lym NHL with or without del(6q). The presence of the larger forms in the peripheral blood did not have an adverse prognostic impact on the survival of the del(6q) cohort, who experienced a median survival in excess of 6 years. All 14 cases of del(6q) sm lym NHL were characterized by a mature B-cell phenotype. Expression of CD11c, a feature of a CLL/PLL variant previously described, was not detected in 9 cases analyzed. In 5 cases of del(6q) sm lym NHL, no circulating abnormal lymphocytes were noted. Twelve cases presented with, or developed, clinical splenomegaly. These results suggest that deletion of a gene or genes at 6q21-23 is associated with the pathogenesis of a subset of B-cell sm lym NHL that may display larger prolymphocytoid cells in the peripheral blood, but that follows a clinical course typical of other well-differentiated lymphocytic neoplasms.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and the associated basic helix-loop-helix gene SCL/tal.	T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a relatively uncommon disease, constituting only approximately 15% of newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) in the United States, or roughly 300 cases per year. Outside of the United States, in countries such as Egypt and India, T-ALL may represent as much as 50% of all ALL's but still remains an overall rare disease. The clinical importance of T-ALL lies in its poor responsiveness to therapy that has proved highly effective with standard B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL). The scientific importance of human T-ALL has resided in its role as a cancer prototype, permitting the identification of novel genes centrally involved in both neoplastic change and normal cellular differentiation. One of these genes, SCL/tal, has received significant attention due to its intimate involvement in T-ALL, as well as in normal hematopoiesis. Although a tremendous amount has been recently discovered about SCL/tal, its exact roles in leukemogenesis and normal hematopoiesis remain obscure.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia following repeated radiation therapy for histiocytosis X.	Low dose radiotherapy has been used to treat a variety of benign disorders including Histiocytosis X. Ionizing radiation may be leukemogenic with leukemia developing between 3.5 to 11 years after exposure. Twenty to 30% of these leukemias are chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). In this report the rare development of PH1 + CML 11 years after radiation therapy for Histiocytosis X is recorded.
Four-chromosomes complex translocations in acute promyelocytic leukemia: description of two cases.	Two cases of acute promyelocytic leukemia with variant translocation involving 4 chromosomes are described. The karyotypes were 47,XX, +8,t(13;15;17;20)(q22;q22;q12;q13) and 46,XY,t(5;15;16;17)(q22;q22;p13;q12), respectively. Variant translocations in APL apparently do not follow any preferential routes since no recurrent breakpoint additional to those of chromosomes 15 and 17 has been found in any of the cases reported in the literature and in those described here. Moreover, it seems that the translocation of the RAR alpha gene from chromosome 17 to chromosome 15 is directly involved in the pathogenesis of the disease, while the reciprocal one is not, as demonstrated by variant translocations where 15q migrates to chromosomes other than 17.
Familial unbalanced translocation t(8;15)(p23.3;q11) with uniparental disomy in Angelman syndrome.	A 29-year-old male with Angelman syndrome and an unbalanced reciprocal translocation, 45,XY,-8, -15, +der(8),t(8;15)(p23.3;q11)pat, was evaluated with DNA studies. These showed the underlying mechanism to be paternal uniparental disomy. This is the second case reported of Angelman syndrome that has resulted from a familial unbalanced reciprocal translocation.
Hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia in a female with balanced X;9 translocation: mapping of the Xp22 chromosome breakpoint.	Magnesium-dependent hypocalcaemia (HSH), a rare inherited disease, is caused by selective disorders of magnesium absorption. Both X-linked and autosomal recessive modes of inheritance have been reported for HSH; this suggests a genetically heterogeneous condition. A balanced de novo t(X;9)(p22;q12) translocation has been reported in a female manifesting hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia. In a lymphoblastoid cell line, derived from this patient, the normal X chromosome is preferentially inactivated, suggesting that the patient's phenotype is caused by disruption of an HSH gene in Xp22. In an attempt to define more precisely the position of the X breakpoint, we have constructed a hybrid cell line retaining the der(X)(Xqter-Xp22.2::9q12-9qter) in the absence of the der(9) and the normal X chromosome. Southern blot analysis of this hybrid and in situ hybridization on metaphase chromosomes have localized the breakpoint between DXS16 and the cluster (DXS207, DXS43), in Xp22.2. Thus, if a gene involved in HSH residues at or near the translocation breakpoint, our findings should greatly facilitate its isolation.
Major and minor breakpoint sites of chromosomal translocation t(14;18) in subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	The frequencies of major breakpoint region (MBR) and minor cluster region (MCR) breakpoint sites of t(14;18) were examined by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting in 50 non-Hodgkin's lymphomas with cytogenetic evidence of t(14;18). A translocation breakpoint was detected in 41 cases (82%). The MBR was involved in 66%, and the MCR in 16% of the cases. Most cases in the present series were lymphomas with a follicular or diffuse growth pattern, 38 being of the centroblastic/centrocytic type and eight of the centroblastic type. The series also included four lymphomas of probable non-follicular center cell origin. MBR and/or MCR breakpoints were found in all studied lymphoma subtypes and in the majority of these most of the breakpoints were in the MBR and a minor portion of the breakpoints in the MCR. Our results suggest that a breakpoint site is not related to growth pattern or neoplastic cell type in follicular center cell lymphomas with t(14;18).
Consistent intergenic splicing and production of multiple transcripts between AML1 at 21q22 and unrelated genes at 3q26 in (3;21)(q26;q22) translocations.	Two genes have been implicated in leukemias of patients with abnormalities of chromosome 3, band q26: EVI1, which can be activated over long distances by chromosomal rearrangements involving 3q26, and EAP, a ribosomal gene that fuses with AML1 in a therapy-related myelodysplasia patient with a t(3;21)(q26.2;q22). AML1 was identified by its involvement in the t(8;21)(q22;q22) of acute myeloid leukemia. Here we report the consistent identification of fusion transcripts between AML1 and EAP or between AML1 and previously unidentified sequences that we named MDS1 (MDS-associated sequences) in the leukemic cells of four patients with therapy-related myelodysplasia/acute myeloid leukemia and in one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis, all of whom had a t(3;21). In addition, we have identified a third chimeric transcript, AML1/EVI1, in one of the therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia patients. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis established the order of the genes as EAP, the most telomeric, and EVI1, the most centromeric, gene. The results indicate that translocations could involve multiple genes and affect gene expression over long distances.
Simultaneous occurrence of chronic myelogenous leukemia and signet-ringed adenocarcinoma of the rectum. A case report with a review of the literature.	Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a pluripotent stem cell malignancy with an incidence of 1.3 per 100,000. Occasionally this uncommon disease occurs concomitantly with other neoplasia including various lymphoproliferative disorders. Its association with solid tumors, especially in young people, is decidedly rare. We report the simultaneous occurrence of CML and signet-ringed adenocarcinoma of the rectum in a 20-year-old male. A review of the literature pertinent to this topic will be briefly discussed, emphasizing characteristics of rectal carcinomas in younger age-groups as well as the unexpected association of CML with solid tumors.
Establishment of a human pro-B cell line (JKB-1) and its differentiation of preestablished bone marrow stromal cell layer.	A human pro-B cell line, named JKB-1, was established from the bone marrow of a 16-year-old girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in relapse. The origin of the JKB-1 cell line was indicated by its chromosomal and immunologic similarity to the patient's fresh leukemic cells. This cell line has been growing for more than 14 months in suspension culture medium and had a doubling time of about 24 hours. JKB-1 expressed terminal deoxynucleotide transferase (TdT) and early antigens (HLA-DR, CD19, CD24) of B cells, with heavy chain gene rearrangement. However, it did not express late antigens (CD10, CD20, CD21, CD22, CD23) of B cells, light chain gene rearrangement, and cytoplasmic mu-chain. These results suggested that JKB-1 is at the stage of "pro-B" cell or early B-cell precursors. This cell line was induced to differentiate after 7 days of co-incubation with irradiated bone marrow stromal cells because of the expression of pre-B cell antigens (CD10, CD20), cytoplasmic mu-chain, light chain gene rearrangement, and disappearance of TdT, JKB-1 cells adhered to a preestablished bone marrow stromal cell layer with string-like processes under scanning electron microscope. When JKB-1 cells were separated from the stromal layer by a cyclopore membrane with 0.45 micron pore size, they did not differentiate. Bone marrow stromal cell conditioned medium could not induce differentiation either. Thus it was suspected that direct contact between JKB-1 cells and stromal cells was required for differentiation. In methylcellulose semisolid medium, the colony size and number of JKB-1 cells were increased by stem cell factor (SCF), or interleukin (IL)-3, or IL-7, but they were decreased by IL-6. Moreover, SCF synergized with IL-3 or IL-7 to stimulate the proliferation of JKB-1 cells. Because there are very few reproducible models for examining early stages of human B-cell differentiation, the JKB-1 cell line would be useful for studying the relationship between human B-cell differentiation and bone marrow microenvironment, as well as leukemogenesis.
Quantitation of follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cells carrying t(14;18) in a patient before and after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	A competitive PCR method was developed, enabling accurate quantitation of residual lymphoma cells carrying the t(14;18) in blood and bone marrow samples of follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients during treatment.
Chromosome analysis of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas by fluorescence in situ hybridization.	We have recently carried out a cytogenetic survey of a series of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs) and identified chromosomal abnormalities in most of the samples studied. A third of these cases, however, had to be recorded as containing derivative or marker chromosomes, whose origins were either partially or completely unknown. In an attempt to further analyse such cases, we have adopted the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique. The FISH technique has allowed us to map the myb gene to 6q23, and then to study its position on 6q- derivative chromosomes in the NHL cells. The related FISH technique of chromosome painting has enabled us to identify a marker chromosome in one of our cases as an abnormal X chromosome, and in other cases has allowed 14q+ derivative chromosomes to be further analysed. We have also applied the FISH technique to the analysis of interphase nuclei, and have been able to determine numerical chromosome changes in NHL interphase cells. The application of the FISH technique to the study of NHL cell chromosomes is likely to enable the identification of most chromosomal abnormalities present, and so may reveal the critical events leading to malignant transformation of lymphoid cells.
Identification of genetic lesions associated with diffuse large-cell lymphoma.	The pathogenesis of several subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is associated with specific genetic lesions involving oncogenes and tumor-suppressor genes. These lesions include c-myc translocation and p53 inactivation in small noncleaved-cell lymphoma, and bcl-2 and bcl-1 translocation in follicular (FL) and mantle-zone lymphoma, respectively. Relatively little is known, however, about the pathogenesis of diffuse lymphoma with a large-cell component (DLLC; including large-, mixed-cell, and immunoblastic), the most relevant NHL type in terms of morbidity and mortality. Since DLLC can occur 'de novo' or via histologic transformation of follicular lymphoma, it is critical to identify lesions associated with both pathogenetic pathways.
Cyclin D1 overexpression in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with chromosome 11 bcl-1 rearrangement.	Approximately 70% of centrocytic (mantle-cell) lymphomas have the chromosomal translocation t(11;14) (q13; q32) and associated rearrangements at the bcl-1 breakpoint locus and at the cyclin D1 (PRAD1, CCND1) gene, thus implicating this gene in the pathogenesis of centrocytic lymphoma. In order to determine cyclin D1 expression in hematopoietic neoplasms with and without bcl-1 or cyclin D1 rearrangements, northern blot analysis was performed.
Molecular characterization of a recurring complex chromosomal translocation in two human extragonadal germ cell tumors.	The molecular characterization of a recurring complex chromosomal translocation involving 6p21, 6p22, 6q23, and 11q13 in two independent but similar extragonadal human germ cell tumors was initiated using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and pulse field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) techniques. By using a series of specific probes from the 11q13 region, the translocation breakpoint in this chromosomal band could be located within a long-range restriction enzyme map in between the markers D11S457 and D11S546. In addition, aberrantly hybridizing restriction fragments were revealed by PFGE in both tumors, indicating that the breakpoint region must be located within a distance of at maximum 200 kilobase pairs (kbp) from the nearest DNA marker (D11S546).
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML-M1) with multiple trisomies and t(8;21)(q22;q22).	Cytogenetic analysis of an acute myeloid leukemia (AML-M1) showed the karyotype 53,XY, +6, +8,t(8;21)(q22;q22), +9, +10, +13, +19, +21. Only one AML with a massively hyperdiploid karyotype (> 50 chromosomes) and t(8;21) has been published before. A comparison of the two cases reveals similarities both with regard to the morphologic subtype (M1) and to which chromosomes were trisomic (+6, +8, +13, +19, and +21 were found in both cases). We surmise that the t(8;21) was the primary chromosomal abnormality and that the set of multiple trisomies occurred secondarily; this pattern of clonal evolution may have favored a more immature leukemic phenotype in these two cases than is regularly seen in t(8;21)-associated leukemias.
Detection of minimal residual disease after sex-mismatch bone marrow transplantation in chronic myelogenous leukemia by fluorescence in situ hybridization.	Detection of minimal residual disease is one of the major goals in bone marrow transplantation. We used a fluorescence in-situ hybridization technique to detect residual Philadelphia-chromosome positive cells in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients after sex-mismatch BMT. We analyzed the level of detection using probes for the BCR/ABL fusion product by comparison with results obtained with probes for the Y and X sex chromosomes. Detection of sex-mismatch chromosomes was significantly higher than that of the BCR/ABL translocation. In contrast, a higher specificity of residual tumor cell detection by the BCR/ABL probe was demonstrated because most of the sex-mismatch cells detected by FISH had a normal karyotype. Tumor-specific markers probes are thus superior and more accurate than sex-mismatch probes for detection of MRD in CML patients after BMT.
Cytogenetic and FISH analysis of endometrial carcinoma.	Endometrial cancer is a common gynecologic tumor, yet reports of cytogenetic studies are few. We studied chromosomes from seven primary specimens of endometrial cancer. Six had abnormal chromosomes; five had a diploid-hyperdiploid modal number and one was triploid. One specimen had a normal karyotype. Chromosome 1 was frequently involved in abnormalities (five tumors) with i(1q) in two tumors, and one tumor each had der(7)t(1;7)(q12;p11) and +add (1)(p13). One additional tumor had trisomy 1 in the single cell which could be fully analyzed. Trisomy 7 was noted in two tumors, and trisomy 10 in one. Because trisomies of these chromosomes have been reported in other cases of endometrial cancer, we used fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with centromere probes to determine the prevalence of trisomies 7 and 10 in these specimens. No additional tumors were found to have trisomies 7 or 10 by FISH. Our data, in combination with published literature, suggest that additional copies of 1q or portions of 1q constitute the primary change in this tumor. Extra copies of genes in this region may play an important role in tumorigenesis in endometrial carcinoma.
Clonal chromosome aberrations in three sacral chordomas.	Cytogenetic analysis was successful in seven of eight sacral chordomas. Clonal chromosome aberrations were detected in three. One had a t(1;6)(q44;q11) as the sole aberration, one displayed three near-diploid clones that shared del(2)(p21), del(9)(p13), -10, structural rearrangements of 12q13, and add(19)(p13), and the third chordoma had two aberrant cell populations--one hypodiploid with several numerical and structural changes, the other hypertriploid-hypotetraploid with all marker chromosomes in duplicate. Including the present cases, seven cytogenetically aberrant chordomas have been reported. Five have had hypodiploid clones and the most frequent changes have been -3, -4, -10, and -13. No recurrent structural rearrangement has been identified; the only chromosome bands involved more than once are 1q21, 3q11, 5p15, 20q13, and 21q22.
Elevated chromosome aberration frequency after X-ray exposure of cultured fibroblasts derived from patients with porokeratosis.	Porokeratosis (PK) is a rare genetic skin disorder inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and regarded as a disease predisposing to cancer. To evaluate chromosomal radiosensitivity of PK cells, we examined chromosome aberration frequency after X-irradiation of cultured skin fibroblasts derived from PK patients and controls. Without X-ray exposure, frequencies of chromosome-type aberrations (exchanges or deletions) were not different between the patients and controls. Following X-ray irradiation, frequencies of deletions in the patient group were significantly increased, whereas those of exchanges were not elevated. No differences in chromatid-type aberration frequency were found between the patients and controls with or without exposure to X-ray. The observed radiosensitivity, though not as high as in ataxia telangiectasia (AT) cells, agrees well with the previously reported higher radiosensitivity of PK fibroblasts in survival analysis.
Detection of bcl rearrangements in B-CLL by fluorescence in situ hybridization.	Data concerning oncogene activation in CLL are very limited. When studied by Southern blot, rearrangements of bcl-1, bcl-2, and bcl-3 have been only infrequently reported. We evaluated the role of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in the detection of gene rearrangements in two CLL patients. We used multiple DNA probes, including those of chromosome 12, immunoglobulin heavy and light chains, and the oncogenes bcl-1, bcl-2, and bcl-3. Additionally, routine cytogenetic study was performed. In one patient, trisomy 12 and bcl-2 translocation were demonstrated by both methods, while trisomy 12 and bcl-1 translocation were seen in the second patient, who had a normal karyotype. Larger studies should evaluate the role of FISH in the detection of oncogene involvement in CLL and compare it with other molecular methods.
Complex karyotype including 14q+ marker in a case of Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia.	We describe a case of Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia with a complex karyotype including a 14q+ marker. Secondary changes affected chromosomes 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 17. The cytogenetic significance of the changes and their prognostic value, as compared with those described in previous reports, are discussed.
Molecular diagnosis of leukemia and lymphoma]	Various kinds of nonrandom chromosomal aberrations have been reported in hematopoietic malignancies. Since the 1980s, many translocation-associated oncogenes and several suppressor oncogenes have been identified and applied for the clinical diagnosis of these malignancies. The former is of major, clinical importance for specific diagnosis made on the basis of molecular detection of the chromosomal translocation, the deregulated expression, and the chimeric mRNA of those genes. Both BCL-1 and BCL-2 genes, associated with mantle zone lymphoma and follicular lymphoma, respectively, belong to the representative deregulated oncogenes by juxtaposition with an immunoglobulin gene enhancer as well as an MYC gene in Burkitt's lymphoma. On the other hand, the MLL gene, associated with infant leukemia, acute monocytic leukemia and secondary leukemia, produces chimeric mRNAs between LTG4, 9, and 19 genes as well as the BCR-ABL chimeric gene in chronic myelogenous leukemia. The detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) by either polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR is becoming an essential test during the course of treatment containing bone marrow transplantation, because positive results of the MRD are closely related to poor prognosis and would have great influence on the choice of treatment plans.
Translocation t(8;21)(q22;q22): cytogenetics and molecular biology.	The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation, usually present with a subtype of acute myeloblastic leukemia with maturation in young patients, is associated with other chromosome abnormalities in about 75% of the cases. These secondary changes are mainly loss of sex chromosome (X in 41% of females and Y in 61% of males). The genes rearranged by t(8;21), named AML-1 on 21 and ETO on 8, were recently identified. AML-1 shows homology with the Drosophila segmentation gene runt and ETO with cyclin D2. The chromosomal breakpoints are clustered within introns of the two genes and t(8;21) results in a fusion gene that makes possible the detection of translocation by polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Two cases of de novo precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia with t(14;18), but without cytogenetic evidence of an associated Burkitt's or Burkitt's variant translocation.	This study reports two cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia of precursor B-cell type. The cases were associated with a t(14;18), but no evidence of a Burkitt's-type translocation was found. There was also no evidence of a preexisting follicular lymphoma. This cytogenetic variety of acute lymphoblastic leukemia has not been reported previously.
Myelomonocytic crisis with t(5;17) and a p53 mutation in a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia.	We report a 64-year-old Japanese man with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) who expired with myelomonocytic crisis. Cytogenetic analyses of chronic phase (CP) and accelerated phase (AP) cells revealed a Philadelphia chromosome and an isochromosome for the long arm of chromosome 17, i(17q). This karyotype was replaced by another karyotype in blast crisis (BC), resulting in near triploidy with t(5;17) (p15;p11) and loss of chromosome 17 pter-->p11. Interphase fluorescent in situ hybridization studies with a chromosome 17 specific alpha satellite DNA probe confirmed the presence of a clonal change in BC. In addition, single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and PCR-direct sequencing of BC cells revealed a point mutation at codon 203 of the p53 gene, GTG to GAG (Val to Glu), and loss of the normal allele. In contrast, no alterations of the p53 gene were found in CP and AP cells. Therefore, progression of CML in this patient appeared to be related to loss of 17p, as well as a mutation in the p53 gene.
Predisposition for breast cancer in carriers of constitutional translocation 11q;22q.	A translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 11 and 22, t(11;22)(q23;q11), is the most frequent constitutional reciprocal translocation in man. This chromosome abnormality has not previously been reported to be associated with an increased risk for neoplasia. The observation of one patient with a constitutional translocation t(11q;22q) and breast cancer prompted us to study the relationship between these two conditions. The incidence of breast cancer was determined in carriers of t(11q;22q). The karyotypes were determined by QFQ-banding, and the breakpoints were then further characterized by fluorescent in situ hybridization. Eight families with a total of 22 balanced carriers were found. In five of these families there was one case of breast cancer each. In another family a case of an unknown malignancy was reported in one member. No other malignancies were found among these patients. The number of breast cancer cases was significantly higher than expected among the translocation carriers (P < .001). The chromosomal breakpoints showed the same localization with the markers used, in the seven families studied. The association of constitutional translocation t(11q;22q) and breast cancer identifies a subset of patients with a highly increased risk for breast cancer who would benefit from counseling and screening. It also suggests the involvement of genes on 11q and/or 22q, in the tumorigenesis of breast cancer.
A reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction detects heterogeneous chimeric mRNAs in leukemias with 11q23 abnormalities.	The MLL gene involved in 11q23 translocations found in the majority of infantile leukemias and some secondary leukemias makes fusion transcripts with genes such as LTG4 (chromosome 4), LTG9 (chromosome 9), and LTG19 (chromosome 19) as a result of reciprocal translocation. We have examined 25 cases of leukemias with 11q23 abnormalities by Southern blot analysis and the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Using various primer pairs, chimeric mRNAs could be amplified in 6 of 7 leukemias with t(4;11), 6 of 8 leukemias with t(9;11) including secondary leukemia, 8 of 9 leukemias with t(11;19), and 1 with a deletion at 11q23. The chimeric mRNAs were heterogeneous and differential usage of the MLL exons was found, irrespective of the partner chromosomes. Sensitivity studies showed that a single clone with chimeric mRNA in 10(4) to 10(5) cells could be detected. These findings show that the present RT-PCR settings provide a rapid, accurate, and sensitive tool for diagnosing leukemias with 11q23 translocations and for monitoring response to therapy in these patients.
Detection of 14q32 translocations in B-cell malignancies by in situ hybridization with yeast artificial chromosome clones containing the human IgH gene locus.	Partner sites of 14q32 translocations found in B-cell malignancies were detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones, Y20 and Y6, containing the human Ig heavy chain (IgH) gene locus. Y20 spans a 160-kb upstream and 40-kb downstream region of the JH segments on chromosome band 14q32.33. Y6 is 300-kb upstream of Y20, and spans a further 320-kb telomeric region. The human DNA sequences amplified by Alu polymerase chain reaction of the YAC clones were used as probes for FISH to study six patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), one patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and one cell line FR4 established from a plasmacytoma. Three telomeric YAC clones each specific for 3q, 8q, and 18q were also used to further characterize 14q32 translocations. The IgH YACs were successfully applied to detect cytogenetically invisible subtelomeric translocation of the IgH gene locus to each partner site in t(14;18), t(8;14), and t(14;19), and to identify t(3;14) (q27;q32.33) in three patients with 14q32 translocation of unknown origin. Furthermore, complex translocations involving more than three chromosomes were detected in an NHL patient with t(8;14), and t(3;12), and in the FR4 with der(14)t(8;14), der(8)dic(1;8), and del(1)(q21). The technique would be a useful tool in elucidating the mechanisms of a 14q32 translocation in B-cell malignancies.
Two types of genomic rearrangements create alternative E2A-HLF fusion proteins in t(17;19)-ALL.	The t(17;19)(q21-q22;p13.3) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia results in creation of an E2A-HLF fusion protein with structural and functional properties of a chimeric transcription factor. Two types of genomic rearrangements underlie fusion of E2A with HLF. In type I rearrangements, an insertion that codes for a portion of the chimera not found in either wild type protein occurs between E2A exon 13- and HLF exon 4-encoded sequences. This insertion is derived from a cryptic exon created at the junction between chromosomes 17 and 19, and includes intronic portions of both E2A and HLF with intervening nontemplated N nucleotides. Type II rearrangements arise from more 5' breakpoints in E2A and result in fusion cDNAs with E2A exon 12 spliced directly to HLF exon 4. Analysis of the genomic structure of HLF shows that these different modes of protein fusion result from selective constraints to maintain the proper HLF reading frame, because a direct E2A exon 13 to HLF exon 4 splice would lead to translation of a truncated E2A protein lacking any contribution from HLF. These features underscore the requirement for DNA binding and/or dimerization conferred by the bZIP portion of the E2A-HLF chimera in t(17;19)-ALL.
Clinical relevance of the PML/RAR-a gene rearrangement in acute promyelocytic leukaemia.	The molecular mechanisms underlying the t(15;17) cytogenetic translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) have been recently elucidated. Together with new insights into the understanding of APL pathogenesis, such investigations also provided the availability of a novel leukemia-specific marker to be used for both diagnostic and monitoring studies. The chromosome breakpoints of the t(15;17) have been shown to involve the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR-a) gene and the newly described PML gene on chromosomes 17 and 15, respectively. Rearrangements of these loci are found in virtually 100% of APLs, including the microgranular variant subtype and cases displaying apparently normal karyotypes. In cases with ambiguous morphology, molecular diagnosis may therefore enable the prompt administration of APL-specific therapies, such as all-trans retinoic acid. Significantly, clinical response to this differentiating agent is predictable based on the presence of the specific PML/RAR-a rearrangement. Appropriate oligoprimers complementary to PML and RAR-a sequences nearby the DNA breakpoints may be successfully used in PCR experiments to amplify the PML/RAR-a hybrid gene and sensitively detect minimal residual disease. Preliminary PCR studies indicate that this approach might indeed prove a very important and reliable prognostic indicator in the follow up monitoring of APL patients. Early identification of impending relapse by PCR may suggest the use of additional treatment in patients at risk and significantly increase the probability of cure of the disease.
Detection of rye chromosome 2R using the polymerase chain reaction and sequence-specific DNA primers.	Sequences derived from a rye gamma secalin gene were used as primers in polymerase chain reactions using DNA obtained from a series of wheat and triticale genetic stocks. A 473-bp fragment, the predicted size based on the distance between the selected primers, was found only in rye, triticales, and wheat lines carrying rye chromosome 2RS. Use of triticale lines with various wheat chromosome substitutions confirmed the chromosomal origin of the rye-specific marker. The presence of the 473-bp PCR product was always associated with the production of 75K secalins in grain samples. Thus, the primer sequences, and the clone of origin (pSC503), were both derived from the SEC-2 locus of rye chromosome 2RS.
Isolation of a new species-specific repetitive sequence from Thinopyrum elongatum and its use in the studies of alien translocations.	A new repetitive sequence that is extremely abundant and well dispersed in the Thinopyrum elongatum genome but present in low-copy number in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) has been isolated. This repeat and a Th. elongatum repeat isolated in another laboratory were used to identify cosmid genomic clones containing the repeats and, thus, putatively located on a Th. elongatum/T. aestivum translocation arm. Most of the selected cosmids contained single- or low-copy sequences, making them potentially useful in mapping studies. The repeats were used in deletion mapping to deduce gene order of three genes located on the Th. elongatum translocation arm. In situ hybridization studies suggested that this newly identified Th. elongatum repeat is well dispersed throughout the Thinopyrum genome but present at only one location in wheat. This raises some interesting questions about the role of such repetitive elements in the evolution of grass species.
Molecular characterisation of chromosome 4p deletions resulting in Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome.	We present three patients with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome with small cytogenetic deletions of 4p16. One case is a de novo translocation and two cases represent de novo deletions. Using molecular techniques we determined the extent of these deletions and attempted to ascertain parental origin. Case 1 had a deletion of 4p16.3 with a breakpoint proximal to D4S10, case 2 had a larger deletion including D4S62 in 4p16.2, and case 3 had the largest deletion which included D4S240, but not the Raf2 locus in 4p16.1. The parental origin of the deletion in case 3 was paternal; the other two cases were indeterminable. Our results show that these three deletions include the currently proposed Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome critical region within the most distal 2 Mb of 4p16.3 and offer supportive evidence for continuous terminal deletions.
Karyotypic findings as an independent prognostic marker in chronic myeloid leukaemia blast crisis.	Fifty-three patients with Ph positive chronic myeloid leukaemia in blastic phase were studied. Additional abnormalities were found in 29 (55%) patients and were more common in myeloid (64%) than lymphoid (45%) blast crisis. The most frequent were +Ph (32%), +8 (28%), +19 (19%), +20 (9%) and +21 (9%). i(17q) (9%) was associated with thrombocytopenia (5/5) and basophilia (2/5). The incidence of additional abnormalities was higher in patients treated with busulphan (70%) than hydroxyurea (44%). No significant differences were noted in the mean values of the clinical and haematological findings recorded at blast crisis between patients with only Ph positive (PP) cells and those with additional abnormalities (AP + AA). Univariate analysis identified karyotypic findings as an independent prognostic marker indicating its significance in assessing the response to therapy and survival after the onset of transformation.
Fusion with E2A alters the transcriptional properties of the homeodomain protein PBX1 in t(1;19) leukemias.	The t(1;19) chromosomal translocation is observed in pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias and results in expression of chimeric E2A-PBX1 proteins that contain transcriptional activation domains from E2A and the homeodomain of PBX1. Since homeodomains mediate DNA-binding, a potential model for the action of E2A-PBX1 is that it disrupts the transcriptional regulation of genes normally controlled by PBX1 or its closely-related family members PBX2 or PBX3. Using a binding site selection assay, we identified a consensus nucleotide sequence ATCAATCA specifically bound by the PBX1 homeodomain and those of its closely-related family members PBX2 and PBX3. An endogenous protein with the properties of PBX3b specifically bound to this sequence in nuclear extracts of precursor B cells. Transfection of reporter genes containing PBX binding sites linked to a minimal promoter demonstrated transactivation by E2A-PBX1 fusion protein dependent upon presence of the homeodomain. In contrast, wild-type PBX proteins were incapable of activating transcription. The striking differences in transcriptional properties of fusion and wild-type PBX proteins provides strong functional evidence for the importance of aberrant transcriptional regulation in the genesis of t(1;19)-bearing leukemias.
Suppression of Philadelphia1 leukemia cell growth in mice by BCR-ABL antisense oligodeoxynucleotide.	When injected into SCID mice, the Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia-blast crisis cell line BV173 induces a disease process closely resembling that seen in leukemia patients. At 1 and 3 weeks after injection of 10(6) BV173 cells, CD10+ cells were detected in the bone marrow of the mice, leukemic colonies grew from bone marrow and spleen cell suspensions, and BCR-ABL transcripts were detectable in bone marrow, spleen, peripheral blood, liver, and lungs. Systemic treatment of the leukemic mice with a 26-mer BCR-ABL antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (1 mg/day for 9 days) induced disappearance of CD10+ and clonogenic leukemic cells and a marked decrease in BCR-ABL mRNA in mouse tissues. Untreated mice or mice treated with a BCR-ABL sense oligodeoxynucleotide or a 6-base-mismatched antisense oligodeoxynucleotide oligodeoxynucleotide were dead 8-13 weeks after leukemia cell injection; in marked contrast, mice treated with BCR-ABL antisense oligodeoxynucleotide died of leukemia 18-23 weeks after injection of leukemic cells. These findings provide evidence for the in vivo effectiveness of an anticancer therapy based on antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeting a tumor-specific gene.
Osteogenesis of the mandibular arch in Ts16 mice.	Males and females homozygous for the Robertsonian translocation specific for chromosomes 16 and 17 Rb(16.17)Bnr and male and females homozygous for the Robertsonian translocation for chromosomes 6 and 16 Rb(6.16)24Lub were bred to produce double heterozygotes [Rb(16.17)Bnr/Rb(6.16)24Lub]. Experimental data were based on 156 features: 70 euploid (control), 86 trisomic. Affected fetuses were identified by decreased size, shortened faces (flattened snouts), oedema, petechiae, open eyelids, and dysplastic ears. Identification of trisomics was substantiated by karyotyping the metaphasic spreads. Five gestational days were studied (14-18). Fetal age was assumed to be accurate as fertilization occurred within half an hour of copulation. Euploid specimens followed normal developmental paths of chondrogenesis, osteogenesis and related tissues. In trisomics, developmental faults increased unequally between gestational days 15 and 17: some tissues were mildly and others acutely affected. Among the trisomic disorders were diminished growth, lagging mitotic activity, and retarded and poorly ordered tissue development, especially of bone. All of these contributed to hypoplasia, hypocellularity, reduced vascular supply and enlarged intercellular spaces. Intensities of the mandibular abnormalities varied among litters and littermates. The severity of the developmental disorders of an individual Ts16 specimen differed among the tissue components studied. Of the trisomic mandibular tissues, bone was most frequently involved and Meckel's cartilage least.
Detection and quantitation of low numbers of chromosomes containing bcl-2 oncogene translocations using semi-nested PCR.	A PCR assay has been optimized for the detection of one or a few molecules of a translocation-containing human DNA sequence in the presence of a vast excess (7 micrograms) of the normal human genome. This procedure avoids blot hybridization by the use of two rounds of PCR with 20-22 cycles of amplification per round and by the replacement of one of the two primers from the first round of PCR with a different primer in the second round (semi-nested PCR). We demonstrate that very low numbers of the target DNA molecules can be quantitated by this semi-nested PCR. This method can be used to detect a single DNA molecule from one mutant cell displaying a translocation between the bcl-2 proto-oncogene region and a JH immunoglobulin gene sequence [t(14;18)] in a background of normal human DNA from 10(6) cells.
Segmental tetrasomy of chromosome 12 in the mouse.	An inbred strain of mice has been identified that is homozygous for a chromosomal segment attached to the centromeric region of Chromosome (Chr) 5. The altered chromosome arose spontaneously, and it does not appear to interfere with fertility or to have a phenotypic effect. Karyotypic analysis based on G-banding and quinacrine/Hoechst-banding studies revealed a morphological similarity between the additional segment of Chr 5 and the centromeric region of Chr 12. The mutant strain possessed silver-stainable nucleolar organizer regions, not only in the centromeric regions of Chrs 12, 15, and 18 but also on the additional segment of Chr 5. We investigated the relationship between the additional segment and the restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) for the variable region of ribosomal DNA and found a correlation between a HincII RFLP and either the abnormal Chr 5 or Chr 12. These results indicate that the origin of the additional segment was Chr 12 and that the segmental tetrasomy of the present strain is therefore due to a nondetrimental translocation between pericentromeric regions.
Assignment of four sequence-tagged sites to three subregions of 13q12 using a somatic cell hybrid mapping panel.	To define the position of a 13q12 breakpoint from a patient with ganglioneuroblastoma, a series of somatic cell hybrids carrying human chromosome translocations with breakpoints in the proximal part of chromosome 13 has been compiled. Sequence-tagged sites (STS) have been generated from a series of Alu-PCR probes previously shown to be in the 13q12 region. Together with an STS for the oncogene FLT1, these have been used to define the relative positions of the translocation breakpoints in the hybrids. In this way, four markers have been ordered in three subregions of 13q12 and reference breakpoints established. The refined physical map of 13q12 provides a series of reference markers with known locations and will be invaluable in the further characterization of breakpoints in this region.
Fertility estimates in the Tunisian all-acrocentric and Robertsonian populations of the house mouse and their chromosomal hybrids.	The reproductive features of wild all-acrocentric and 2n = 22 Robertsonian (Rb) house mice (M. m. domesticus) from Tunisia were studied. The aim was to examine the possibility of a reproductive selective advantage associated with chromosomal change as well as to measure the effect of heterozygosity for a large number of Rb fusions on the fertility of hybrids. Results showed that litter sizes were significantly smaller in Rb than in all-acrocentric mice. This difference, which may represent a favourable demographic strategy related to the habitat segregation observed in the Tunisian mice, needs to be studied further. The F1 hybrids between the two chromosomal races showed a significantly reduced reproductive success and litter size (respectively, 53 per cent and 60 per cent less than either parental race). Analysis of the testicular histology of F1 and backcross males showed in some cases a breakdown of spermatogenesis. The degree of this disturbance was not related to the level of chromosomal heterozygosity suggesting that genetic incompatibilities between the two genomes might be involved. The strong reduction in fertility measured in these hybrids represents a reproductive isolating mechanism effectively reducing gene flow between the all-acrocentric and 22Rb mice populations of Tunisia.
Application of fluorescent in situ hybridization for 'de novo' anomalies in prenatal diagnosis.	Fluorescent in situ Hybridization (FISH) was carried out for three cases of abnormal karyotypes in prenatal studies. Two concerned de novo structural anomalies and the third a marker chromosome. The origin of the extra material could be defined in all three cases, which gives a better insight into the relationship between genotype and phenotype and makes more adequate genetic counselling possible.
Three cases of dup(10p)/del(10q) syndrome resulting from maternal pericentric inversion.	Two families and 3 patients with dup(10p)/del(10q) syndrome segregating from a maternal pericentric inversion are described, including a stillborn female with Potter sequence and multicystic renal dysplasia. Comparison of 32 dup(10p) patients to 11 del(10)(q25) patients emphasized dolichocephaly, wide sutures, frontal bossing, micrognathia, and renal defects as distinguishing characteristics of the dup(10p) syndrome. The 3 new and 6 previously reported dup(10p)/del(10q) patients had several manifestations in common with the dup(10p) and del(10q) syndromes, but were more typical of dup(10p) syndrome with respect to all 5 distinguishing characters.
Split hand/split foot anomaly in a family segregating a balanced translocation with breakpoint on 7q22.1.	An apparently balanced translocation, t(2;7)(q21.1;q22.1) was detected in a female patient with bilateral split hand and right split foot. Split hand/split foot (SHSF) segregated as an autosomal dominant character with low penetrance in her family. The translocation was present in 6 of 13 additional relatives investigated, one of whom also had split hand on right. This observation provides further confirmation of the presence of a locus for SHSF on 7q and narrows the critical region to band 7q22.1. Defects caused by alterations of this chromosome region are variable and include manifestations of both syndromal and non-syndromal SHSF. Review of SHSF cases associated with chromosome 7 abnormalities showed a preferential involvement of the lower limbs and of the right side, suggesting the action of locally restricted developmental resistance mechanisms.
Retinoid receptors and acute promyelocytic leukaemia.	While a great deal has been learned about APL over the last few years, many important questions remain unanswered. It has become clear that the PML/RAR-alpha fusion protein is expressed in most cases of APL, and this protein presumably contributes to leukaemia initiation and/or progression. PML/RAR-alpha appears to specifically block the further differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells, although the mechanism of its action is not known. It may inhibit the transcription of RAR- or PML-regulated genes, in which case expression must be restored in the presence of therapeutic RA concentrations. However, the possibility remains that PML/RAR-alpha may have a novel function. In order to elucidate the molecular pathogenesis of APL, several important questions remain to be answered. These include whether PML is a transcription factor; the identification of its target genes and response elements, and the role of PML/RAR-alpha and RA in their regulation. Also whether the expression of PML/RAR-alpha in bone marrow cells (either by itself or in combination with other oncogenes) alters their tumourigenicity or differentiation potential. It is also important to determine the function(s) of PLZF and PLZF/RAR-alpha, and determine whether other APL patients with mutations involving PML or RAR-alpha (but not both) respond to therapy with all-trans-RA. Finally, it is important both for the understanding of the molecular biology of APL and its therapy, to determine the effects of other regulatory factors involved in the control of myeloid cell differentiation such as granulocyte colony stimulation factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) on APL cells in vitro and in vivo, both at presentation and in the RA-resistant patients in relapse.
A 45,X male with an X;Y translocation: implications for the mapping of the genes responsible for Turner syndrome and X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata.	In a male patient with a 45,X karyotype, the terminal part of the Y chromosome short arm was translocated as a single block on to the X chromosome. This rearranged X chromosome was, in every regard, the same as that present in XX males resulting from an abnormal X-Y interchange. Correlations between the phenotype of this patient and the extent of the deletions on the X and Y chromosomes allowed us to map the genes responsible for most features of the Turner syndrome between DXS432 and Xqter on the X chromosome, and the homologous Y genes either on Yp in interval 4 or on Yq. The molecular analysis of this X-Y translocation allowed us also to reduce the interval for the X-linked recessive chondrodysplasia punctata gene to a 1.5 Mb interval between DXS432 and DXS31.
Agnathia-holoprosencephaly: a new recessive syndrome?	The association between agnathia and holoprosencephaly is well documented (Pauli et al., 1981). Pauli et al. described two female sibs with agnathia and holoprosencephaly who were subsequently shown to carry an unbalanced 46,XX, der 18,t(6;18)(pter p24.1) karyotype (Pauli et al., 1983; Krassikoff and Sekhon, 1989). All other cases have been sporadic (Cohen, 1989). We present a recurrence of agnathia-holoprosencephaly in an unrelated European couple and postulate that this association may represent an autosomal recessive syndrome.
Cytogenetic analysis of a benzpyrene induced osteosarcoma in the rat (Rattus norvegicus).	A cytogenetic comparison of primary and transplant tumor cell-lines, both originating from a benzpyrene induced osteosarcoma, with normal rat cell-lines (Rattus norvegicus) is presented here. In all tumor cell-lines tested, the number of chromosomes was increased by one or two. Using Giemsa-banding, structural chromosomal changes, i.e. a Robertsonian translocation t(4;4)(q10;q10) and an interstitial deletion del(6)(q11q16) could be recorded. Furthermore, staining of nucleolus organizer regions (NORs) revealed a shift in NOR activity from chromosome number 11 to 12 and a decrease in NOR activity at chromosome number 3.
A mesenchymal chondrosarcoma of a child with the reciprocal translocation (11;22)(q24;q12).	The reciprocal translocation (11;22)(q24;q12) was observed in a seven day culture from a mesenchymal chondrosarcoma of the bone, a tumor not characterized cytogenetically so far. We suggest that because of the presence of a similar cytogenetic abnormality, mesenchymal chondrosarcoma may belong to the wide group of "t(11;22)-small round cell tumors".
Recurrent t(12;19)(q13;q13.3) in intracranial and extracranial hemangiopericytoma.	We report on a recurrent intracranial hemangiopericytoma cytogenetically studied after short-term culture. The tumor had a uniform karyotype 47,XX,add(7)(q21),t(12;19)(q13;q13.3),del(13)(q14q22), +21. Remarkably, one case with an identical reciprocal (12;19) translocation has been previously reported as the sole cytogenetic change in a recurrent retroperitoneal hemangiopericytoma. This nonrandom structural change may characterize a subentity of hemangiopericytoma and might be of diagnostic value.
Identification of a yeast artificial chromosome that spans the human papillary renal cell carcinoma-associated t(X;1) breakpoint in Xp11.2.	Recently, a specific chromosome abnormality, t(X;1)(p11;q21), was described for a subgroup of human papillary renal cell carcinomas. The translocation breakpoint in Xp11 is located in the same region as that in t(X;18)(p11;q11)-positive synovial sarcoma. We used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and somatic cell hybridization techniques to demonstrate 1) that the Xp11 translocation breakpoint in papillary renal cell carcinoma differs from that observed in synovial sarcoma and has a more proximal location, and 2) that an ornithine aminotransferase (OAT)L2 containing yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) spans the X;1 translocation. This YAC provides an ideal starting point from which the breakpoint itself and the gene(s) involved can be isolated and characterized.
Chromosome abnormalities in cementifying fibroma.	Cementifying fibroma is the most frequent benign fibro-osseous odontogenic tumor. We found chromosome abnormalities in a second case of this type of benign tumor. The chromosome changes in both cases are different. The chromosome bands involved in our case have not been described before in any benign fibroma so far reported.
Translocation of CD3D gene in an acute myeloid leukemia (M5) with t(11;17)(q23;21).	Cytogenetic studies in patients with acute leukemia showed structural abnormalities on chromosome 11 at band q23 in five cases. Four of these had acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) associated with t(4;11)(q21;q23) and one case had acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL) (M5) associated with t(11;17)(q23;q21). We examined the CD3D and c-ets-1 genes in the t(11;17)(q23;q21) patient to ascertain any association between them and the chromosome change. In situ hybridization results showed that unlike in other studied cases with rearrangements of 11q23, the CD3D gene in the t(11;17)(q23;21) is transposed to the der(17) chromosome, providing evidence for a different breakpoint in the 11q23 region.
New variant t(9;11;14)(p22;q23;q24) suggests a translocation of 9p to 11q as the critical genetic event.	We describe a patient with M5a (FAB classification) associated with a new type of variant translocation (9;11), namely t(9;11;14)(p22;q23;q24). The translocation of chromosome fragment from 9p to 11q is the common feature among the five variant translocations in the literature and our patient.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia associated with a t(1;19)(q23;p13) in an adult.	A cytogenetic study of a 38-year-old patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) revealed a t(1;19)(q23;p13), which is a characteristic translocation of childhood ALL. The leukemic cells were positive for the CD10, CD19, HLA-DR, TdT and cytoplasmic mu-chain. Both of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene loci were rearranged and the RNA-based polymerase chain reaction demonstrated the E2A/PBX1 fusion transcript which is the result of the t(1;19). This finding suggests that the t(1;19) is implicated not only in childhood ALL but also in adult ALL patients.
Multidrug resistance and behavioural phenotype of cancer cells.	Resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapy is a major obstacle preventing successful treatment of cancer, allowing dissemination of tumour metastases, and may be viewed as the ultimate cause of death in the majority of patients with a malignant disease. Although cytotoxic chemotherapy is classically employed to produce maximal killing of malignant cells, the therapeutic doses of individual drugs required to achieve this objective are, in general, highly toxic to non-neoplastic host tissues. However, there are several different aspects of cancer cell biology, distinct from their susceptibility to cytotoxicity, that might be exploited in order to alter the behavioral phenotypes of malignant neoplasms. Such features include regulation of cell proliferation, tumorigenicity and metastatic potential. Non-cytotoxic modulation of malignant cells may provide an alternative, and more effective, method of controlling the aggressive behaviour of cancer cells while exhibiting less iatrogenic morbidity and mortality than the therapeutic regimens presently employed.
Split-foot anomaly, microphthalmia, cleft-lip and cleft-palate, and mental retardation associated with a chromosome 6;13 translocation.	The split-hand/split-foot anomaly is a component of several disorders which may occur sporadically or be transmitted as autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive traits. We describe a severely mentally handicapped patient with ectrodactyly of both feet in association with extreme microphthalmia, central cleft-lip and palate and mental retardation. She has an apparent de novo 46,XX,t(6;13) (q21;q12) unbalanced translocation. Either of these breakpoints may be the locus for the ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-facial cleft (EEC) syndrome.
EWS rearrangement in Ewing's sarcoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumor. Molecular detection and correlation with cytogenetic analysis and MIC2 expression.	The translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12) can be identified in its classical or variant form in approximately 90% of cases of Ewing's sarcoma (ES) and peripheral neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). In this tumor group in which the histopathologic diagnosis is often one of exclusion, the cytogenetic demonstration of this translocation has become an invaluable positive diagnostic marker. With the recent cloning of the breakpoint regions of the t(11;22), molecular genetic approaches to the detection of this translocation have become possible. By Southern blotting, the position of the breakpoints on chromosome 22 has been found to be tightly clustered within a 7-kilobase (kb) fragment of the genomic DNA, within a gene designated EWS. In the present study, we examined the efficacy of an EWS complementary DNA (cDNA) probe in detecting the t(11;22) in Southern blots of EcoRI- or HindIII-digested DNA extracted from cases of ES and PNET. We also compared the results of the molecular and cytogenetic analysis with the expression of the ES cell surface antigen MIC2, as demonstrated by immunoperoxidase staining with the monoclonal antibodies O13 and HBA71. Twenty-three specimens were studied, including 18 ES and five PNET. Of 16 cases with clonally abnormal karyotypes, 14 (88%) showed a typical or variant t(11;22). Rearrangements were demonstrated within the EWS gene with the EWS cDNA probe in 20 of 23 specimens (87%), including all of the 14 cases, as well as in one case that displayed clonal numerical chromosome abnormalities only. The MIC2 antigen was expressed in 19 of 20 cases (95%), including all three cases lacking EWS rearrangement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ph+ acute myelogenous leukemia with t(7;11)(p15;p15) and clonal evolution in relapse after bone marrow transplantation.	A 20-year-old female with Ph+ acute myelogenous leukemia (M2) associated with t(7;11)(p15;p15) is reported. Bone marrow aspirates were hypercellular with leukemic cells including Auer rods. Chromosome analysis showed t(7;11) and the Ph chromosome. After complete remission, normal karyotype was restored. Normal male karyotypic cells replaced the bone marrow following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from her brother. On day 358, cytogenetic study at relapse revealed 14q+ as an additional change and clearly showed that the abnormal clone was derived from the patient, because metaphases with XX were all of abnormal karyotype and those with XY were normal.
Isolation of a yeast artificial chromosome contig spanning the X chromosomal translocation breakpoint in a patient with Rett syndrome.	Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder observed exclusively in females. A de novo X;3 translocation was detected in a patient (TH) with Rett syndrome. The X chromosomal breakpoint maps to Xp21.3 between the distal end of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene and the DXS28 (C7) locus. To determine if this translocation caused the Rett syndrome in this patient, our efforts focused on mapping and cloning of the X chromosomal breakpoint in this patient. Toward these goals, we generated a set of radiation-reduced hybrid cell lines for the short arm of the X chromosome to use as a source for region-specific markers. Using Alu-PCR, 13 new DNA markers were isolated from a radiation-reduced hybrid, which retained both DMD and DXS28. These markers were localized within Xp21 using DNA from males with various interstitial deletions in this region. Two new markers, K23-2p and K23b-1, were found to be closer flanking markers to the X chromosomal breakpoint than DMD and DXS28. Long range restriction mapping using K23-2p and K23b-1 determined that the maximum distance between them was 800 kb. Several of the new markers were developed into sequence tagged-sites and were used to isolate yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones. A total of 22 YAC clones was isolated and characterized; these YACs were then developed into 3 large contigs in the Xp21.3 region. This effort resulted in the cloning of the region containing the X chromosomal translocation breakpoint of the Rett syndrome patient in a 170-kb YAC clone.
Detection of the BCR/ABL fusion gene in chronic myeloid leukemia by RNA polymerase chain reaction.	The bcr/abl fusion gene in 20 patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) was detected by RNA polymerase chain reaction, which used mRNA as the starting material to generate cDNA with reverse transcriptase followed by PCR amplification (RNA/PCR). Amplification of a sequence spanning the bcr/abl junction region was achieved by using peripheral blood cells as the source of mRNA from all 20 patients with CML, including 3 cases of Ph (-) CML, and cell line K562 was derived from patients with CML. No amplification was seen when mononuclear cells from 3 normal individuals, 2 patients with lymphoma and cell line HL-60 were used. The presence or absence of bcr exon 3 in the fusion mRNA was determined by the size of the amplified fragments. Of the 20 CML patients, 15 showed only the 165-bp amplified band (indicating retention of bcr exon 3), one showed only the 90-bp amplified band, and 4 showed both 165-bp and 90-bp bands. Both bands were seen more frequently in blast crisis than in remission and chronic phase.
The 5q35bp chromosomal abnormality characterizes certain CD30 positive anaplastic large cell lymphomas offering a new definition of malignant histiocytosis in childhood.	Anaplastic large cell CD30 positive lymphomas represent a heterogeneous group of lymphomas in which immunocytochemical and molecular investigations have demonstrated the existence of malignancies of T, B or undetermined origin. The recent identification, in a few cases, of a chromosomal 5q35 breakpoint may allow distinction of a specific disease. In these cases, the 5q35bp has been found to be a permanent abnormality present in 5 cell lines and associated with various translocations including most often t(2;5) but also t(7;5), t(5;6) and t(3;5). A primitive myelomonocytic origin of these 5q35bp cells is suggested on the basis of the following arguments: i) they spontaneously express CD68; ii) they reduce tetrazolium blue; iii) they express the c-fms proto-oncogene which encodes the macrophage growth receptor (CSF-1); iv) c-fms, which is not rearranged, has been mapped to 5q33 close to the 5q35 breakpoint; v) treatment by phorbol-diester of a 5q35bp cell line (DEL) induces immunodependent phagocytosis and modulation of the expression of c-fms, CSF-1 and TNF alpha. Since some 5q35bp cell lines also present rearrangements of TCR beta or Ig (jH), these data suggest an ancestral stem-cell origin, prior to T, B or myelomonocytic differentiation. Whatever its origin, the 5q35bp abnormality is mainly encountered in childhood malignancies. As it is constantly associated with the clinical and biological manifestations of a condition recognized by pediatricians as malignant histiocytosis, 5q35bp may today represent the best criterion for the identification of malignant histiocytosis in childhood.
Chronic myeloid leukemia: cytogenetic and molecular study and its relationship with the disease course]	The aim of this study was to perform a cytogenetic and molecular study in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia and to seek a possible relation between bcr gene break points and the clinical evolution of the disease. The cytogenetic study allowed to establish the presence of Ph chromosome and the molecular study localized the break point in bcr region of chromosome 22 using the Southern technique, hybridizing with bcr fragment derived probes bcr1 and bcr2. Forty eight patients were studied, 27 male (aged 46.5 years) and 21 female (aged 56). Forty seven patients were Ph +. A rearrangement in 3' bcr region was found in 25 patients and in 5' region in 23. During the follow up period 20 patients developed a blast crisis or accelerated phase. In 11 of these the rearrangement was in region'3 and their chronic phase lasted a mean of 33.1 months; in 9 the rearrangement was in region 5' and their chronic phase lasted 44.1 months. There were no differences in event-free survival between those with rearrangement in region 3' or 5', however these was a tendency towards a longer chronic phase duration in those with 5' breaks. The lack of correlation between the location of break points and the evolution of the disease may be due to a selection of patients with a better evolution and the exclusion of those with a rapid progression to blast crisis or accelerated phase.
Localization of DNA sequences required for human centromere function through an analysis of rearranged Y chromosomes.	We have localized the DNA sequences required for mitotic centromere function on the human Y chromosome. Analysis of 33 rearranged Y chromosomes allowed the centromere to be placed in interval 8 of a 24-interval deletion map. Although this interval is polymorphic in size, it can be as small as approximately 500kb. It contains alphoid satellite DNA and approximately 300kb of adjacent Yp sequences. Chromosomes with rearrangements in this region were analysed in detail. Two translocation chromosomes and one monocentric isochromosome had breakpoints within the alphoid array. Of 12 suppressed Y centromeres on translocation chromosomes and dicentric isochromosomes that were also analysed two showed deletions one of which only removed alphoid DNA. These results indicate that alphoid DNA is a functional part of the Y chromosome centromere.
Sex dependent transmission of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome associated with a reciprocal translocation t(9;11)(p11.2;p15.5).	Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), a disorder associated with neonatal hypoglycaemia, increased growth potential, and predisposition to Wilms's tumour (WT) and other malignancies, has been mapped to 11p15. The association with 11p15 duplications of paternal origin, of balanced translocations and inversions with breakpoints within 11p15.4-p15.5 of maternal origin, and the demonstration of uniparental paternal 11p15 isodisomy in some sporadic cases point towards the involvement of genomic imprinting. In agreement with this, we show the paternal origin of a de novo 9;11 translocation in a phenotypically normal mother, whose carrier daughter developed BWS. This supports the fact that BWS associated with balanced chromosome mutations is transmitted in the same sex dependent pattern as non-cytogenetic forms of familial BWS.
A 'zebra' chromosome arising from multiple translocations involving non-homologous chromosomes.	An alloplasmic wheat line carrying a 'zebra' chromosome z5A was isolated from the derivatives of an Elymus trachycaulus x Triticum aestivum cv Chinese Spring hybrid. Chromosome z5A was named zebra because of its striped genomic in situ hybridization pattern. z5A consists of four chromosome segments derived from E. trachycaulus and four chromosome segments, including the centromere, from wheat. The short arm of z5A paired with the telocentric chromosome 1H(t)S of E. trachycaulus and the long arm with the long arm of normal 5A. z5A also carried several genetic markers derived from 1H(t)S. Chromosome 1H(t) was the only E. trachycaulus chromosome found in the sib plants of a previous generation from which z5A was derived. Monosomic 5A and telocentric chromosome 5AL were also found in most of the sib plants. The zebra chromosome most probably originated from spontaneous multiple translocations between chromosomes 5A and 1H(t)S or 5A and 1H(t).
Ends-in vs. ends-out recombination in yeast.	Integration of linearized plasmids into yeast chromosomes has been used as a model system for the study of recombination initiated by double-strand breaks. The linearized plasmid DNA recombines efficiently into sequences homologous to the ends of the DNA. This efficient recombination occurs both for the configuration in which the break is in a contiguous region of homology (herein called the ends-in configuration) and for "omega" insertions in which plasmid sequences interrupt a linear region of homology (herein called the ends-out configuration). The requirements for integration of these two configurations are expected to be different. We compared these two processes in a yeast strain containing an ends-in target and an ends-out target for the same cut plasmid. Recovery of ends-in events exceeds ends-out events by two- to threefold. Possible causes for the origin of this small bias are discussed. The lack of an extreme difference in frequency implies that cooperativity between the two ends does not contribute to the efficiency with which cut circular plasmids are integrated. This may also be true for the repair of chromosomal double-strand breaks.
Genomic structure of the EWS gene and its relationship to EWSR1, a site of tumor-associated chromosome translocation.	The EWS gene has been identified based on its location at the chromosome 22 breakpoint of the t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation that characterizes Ewing sarcoma and related neuroectodermal tumors. The EWS gene spans about 40 kb of DNA and is encoded by 17 exons. The nucleotide sequence of the exons is identical to that of the previously described cDNA. The first 7 exons encode the N-terminal domain of EWS, which consists of a repeated degenerated polypeptide of 7 to 12 residues rich in tyrosine, serine, threonine, glycine, and glutamine. Exons 11, 12, and 13 encode the putative RNA binding domain. The three glycine- and arginine-rich motifs of the gene are mainly encoded by exons 8-9, 14, and 16. The DNA sequence in the 5' region of the gene has features of a CpG-rich island and lacks canonical promoter elements, such as TATA and CCAAT consensus sequences. Positions of the chromosome 22 breakpoints were determined for 19 Ewing tumors. They were localized in introns 7 or 8 in 18 cases and in intron 10 in 1 case.
Rapid prenatal diagnosis of Patau's syndrome in a fetus with an abdominal wall defect by 72 hour culture of cells from amniotic fluid.	A woman in the 32nd week of pregnancy was referred for investigation because of fetal abnormalities, including an abdominal wall defect, detected by ultrasonography. In view of the increased risk of chromosome abnormality, amniocentesis was performed to enable informed decisions about the management of the pregnancy and delivery to be taken. Cells from the liquor were inoculated into standard lymphocyte culture medium and incubated for 72 h. Slides with a high mitotic index and good quality metaphases, comparable to those from a blood culture, were obtained after harvesting. Cytogenetic analysis showed the karyotype to be 46,XY, - 14,+t(13q14q), which is consistent with Patau's syndrome. This technique appears to be an option for rapid karyotyping in cases of abdominal wall defect, where a chromosomal abnormality is suspected.
Prenatal diagnosis of a fetus with partial monosomy 7(q34-->qter) and partial trisomy 18(q21-->qter).	Ultrasound examination of a 31-year-old woman at 27 weeks' gestation revealed fetal growth retardation, a bilateral cleft lip and palate, and the absence of median cerebral structures. Chromosome analysis after cordocentesis showed an abnormal karyotype with a structural abnormality of the long arm of chromosome 7: 46,XX,-7,+der(7),t(7;18) (q34;q21.3)mat. The pregnancy was terminated at week 29. The ultrasound findings were confirmed by post-mortem examination, which also revealed a semilobar holoprosencephaly.
Stable chromosome aberrations 25 years after severe accidental radiation exposure.	A thorough cytogenetic analysis using G-banding was performed on 100 peripheral blood lymphocytes from an individual who had been accidentally exposed to radiation more than 25 years previously. More than 60% of the analysed cells were found to possess one or more stable chromosome aberrations (e.g. reciprocal translocations). Chromosomes 1 and 11 were more involved in these aberrations than would be expected from the relative chromosome lengths. No identical stable aberrations were found, suggesting that, 25 years after near-lethal exposure, haemopoietic stem cells display substantial diversity.
Balanced translocation in a neuroblastoma patient disrupts a cluster of small nuclear RNA U1 and tRNA genes in chromosomal band 1p36.	Chromosomal band 1p36 probably harbours several neuroblastoma suppressor genes. A neuroblastoma patient has been described with a constitutional balanced translocation, t(1;17)(p36;q12-21). Cytogenetically, no loss of chromosomal material was visible. The 1p36 translocation breakpoint could therefore have inactivated one allele of a tumour suppressor gene, thus predisposing the patient to develop neuroblastoma. We localized this breakpoint by pulsed field gel electrophoresis, analysis of yeast artificial chromosomes, and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Here we report that the breakpoint is within a large cluster of small nuclear RNA U1 (RNU1) and some tRNA genes (TRE, TRN) on chromosomal band 1p36. The size of this cluster is over two megabases and it contains many other locally repeated sequences. Polyadenylated transcripts were identified for some of these sequences. In addition, the cluster is the target for integration of an adenovirus 5/SV40 hybrid virus. The translocation breakpoint maps distal of this viral integration site and proximal of marker PND.
Distinct Xp11.2 breakpoints in two renal cell carcinomas exhibiting X;autosome translocations.	Several human renal cell carcinomas with X;autosome translocations have been reported in recent years. The t(X;1)(p11.2;q21) appears to be a specific primary anomaly, suggesting that tumors with this translocation form a distinct subgroup of RCC. Here we report two new cases, one with a t(X;10)(p11.2;q23), the other with a t(X;1)(p11.2;p34). The common breakpoint in Xp11.2 suggests that they belong to the above-mentioned subset of RCC. Using FISH in conjunction with X-specific YAC clones, we demonstrate that the two new cases exhibited distinct breakpoints within Xp11.2.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of whole-arm 7;12 translocations in hematologic malignancies.	Cytogenetic analysis of one case of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), one of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), one of refractory anemia with excess of blasts (RAEB), and one of acute mixed lineage leukemia (AMLL) with unbalanced 7;12 translocations mapped the breakpoints to the centromeres on both chromosomes. The rearrangements were interpreted as the whole-arm translocations der(7;12)(q10;q10) in the AML and ALL and der(7;12)(p10;q10) in the RAEB and AMLL. However, further analysis by metaphase and/or interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed centric fusion only in the AML and ALL. In the RAEB and AMLL, centromeric material from chromosome 7 but not from 12 was present in the derivative chromosome. Whereas the t(7;12) resulted in loss of 12p in all four cases, the corresponding chromosome 7 imbalances differed--monosomy for 7q in the RAEB and AMLL and monosomy for 7p in the AML and ALL. Six hematologic neoplasms with unbalanced whole-arm or near-centromeric 7;12 translocations and seven dic(7;12) with juxtacentromeric breakpoints have been reported previously: 2 AML, 1 RAEB in transformation, and 10 ALL. All karyotypically informative cases had loss of 12p material. All but one of the cases with combined 7p and 12p deletion were ALL, whereas all cases with 7q and 12p loss showed myeloid differentiation. No particular clinical, morphologic, or immunophenotypic features seem to characterize ALLs with t(7;12). AMLs with an unbalanced t(7;12), often together with 5q deletions, might be associated with previous genotoxic exposure and poor prognosis.
Complex MLL rearrangement in a patient with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	MLL (also known as ALL-I, HTRX, or HRX) gene translocations are among the most common chromosomal abnormalities recognized in both B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, MLL gene rearrangements are uncommon in T-cell ALL. We recently detected an MLL gene rearrangement in a patient with typical T-cell ALL. We recently detected an MLL gene rearrangement in a patient with typical T-cell ALL (CD2+, CD4+, CD5+, CD7+, CD8+, HLA DR-) and an apparently normal karyotype (46,XX). The rearrangement was cloned and characterized; a DNA fragment distal to the breakpoint was mapped by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to 19p13, indicating that the leukemic blasts had undergone a cytogenetically undetected rearrangement involving chromosomes 11 and 19. A reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay demonstrated an in-frame fusion mRNA between the amino terminus of MLL and the carboxy terminus of ENL (also known as MLLT1 or LTG19), a gene that has been mapped to 19p13. In addition, MLL sequences distal (telomeric) to the breakpoint were deleted from the genome, which precludes the formation of a reciprocal ENL/MLL fusion protein. These findings suggest that an MLL/ENL fusion protein (and not a reciprocal ENL/MLL fusion) was likely to be pathogenic in this patient, and they reinforce previous studies showing that leukemic blasts with apparently normal karyotype may harbor MLL rearrangements. Additionally, this report provides the first conclusive evidence of an MLL/ENL gene fusion characterized at a molecular level in a patient with T-cell ALL.
A de novo satellited short arm of the Y chromosome possibly resulting from an unstable translocation.	A satellited long arm of the Y chromosome (Yqs) is considered a normal variation, whereas the presence of a satellite on the short arm of the Y (Yps) has never been described in the literature. A Yps chromosome could be clinically significant if the translocation resulting in Yps has relocated the testis-determining gene, SRY, to another chromosome. A carrier of such a translocation would therefore be at increased risk for having XX male and XY female offspring. Here we describe the first reported case of de novo Yps present in a phenotypically normal male. This Yps chromosome was positive for C-banding and nucleolus organizer region (NOR) staining and showed a hybridization signal for the beta-satellite sequence. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis indicated that SRY was retained on the Yps and the translocation breakpoint on Yps was distal to the pseudoautosomal region. At prenatal diagnosis, a normal appearing Y chromosome was found in his son, and thus the satellite on Yps was lost during meiotic Xp-Yp pairing. This Yps chromosome was likely the product of an "unstable" translocation.
Construction and characterization of a NotI linking library from human chromosome region 1q25-qter.	Chromosome 1q25-qter-specific NotI linking clones have been isolated from a NotI linking library that was constructed using DNA from MCH206.1 somatic cell hybrid cells. These cells contain chromosome 1q25-qter translocated to human chromosome Xp22 as the only human genetic material in mouse background. Sixty-eight NotI linking clones have been mapped by a combination of fluorescence in situ hybridization and R-banding to cytogenetic bands on the long arm of chromosome 1. The relative order of 11 NotI clones and their relation to known chromosome 1 markers have also been determined in 1q32 and 1q41, where the genes of Van der Woude and Usher syndrome type IIa have been previously mapped: cen-chr1.14-chr1.79-chr1.56-chr1.11-chr1.9 5- chr1.58 (chr1.74)-D1S70-chr1.15-chr1.82 (chr1.143)-chr1.62-D1S81-tel. The 1q32- and 1q41-specific NotI linking clones were sequenced in the vicinity of the NotI site. They were analyzed in terms of nucleotide composition, G+C content, frequency of CpG dinucleotides, and protein coding potentials. Most of the 1q32-q41-specific NotI linking clones were derived from CpG islands. Sequences of three NotI linking clones proved to be identical with known genes. Six of the remaining eight had a high potential for coding regions and shared short homologous regions with sequences in the GenBank database. The NotI linking clones and the identified CpG islands will provide valuable resources for constructing a long-range restriction map of chromosome 1q25-q44 and for the eventual isolation of disease genes of Van der Woude syndrome (1q32-q41) and Usher syndrome type IIa (1q41).
Regional localization of 64 cosmid contigs, including 18 genes and 14 markers, to intervals on human chromosome 9q34.	A fluorescence in situ hybridization map of distal human chromosome 9q has been produced by mapping cosmid clones to metaphase chromosomes with balanced reciprocal translocations. This is a very accurate method of mapping, as clones are localized by their position with respect to the breakpoint in addition to cytogenetic banding. By using three lymphoblastoid cell lines with translocation breakpoints within 9q34, we have localized 18 genes and 14 DNA markers to one of four intervals on the chromosome. Cosmid contigs exist around 16 of these genes and 12 of these markers. A further 43 contigs have also been mapped, but they are as yet anonymous.
A 4-megabase YAC contig that spans the Langer-Giedion syndrome region on human chromosome 8q24.1: use in refining the location of the trichorhinophalangeal syndrome and multiple exostoses genes (TRPS1 and EXT1).	We have constructed a physical map covering over 4 Mb of human chromosome 8q24.1 and used this map to refine the locations of the genes responsible for Langer-Giedion syndrome. The map is composed of overlapping YAC clones that were identified and ordered in relation to sequence tagged sites mapped to the Langer-Giedion chromosomal region on somatic cell hybrids. The minimal region of overlap of Langer-Giedion syndrome deletions, previously identified by analysis of 15 patients, was placed on the map by analysis of 2 patients whose deletions define the endpoints. The chromosome 8 breakpoint of a balanced t(8;9)(q24.11;q33.3) translocation from a patient with trichorhinophalangeal syndrome (TRPS I) was found to be located just within the proximal end of the minimal deletion region. A deletion of 8q24.11-q24.3 in a patient with multiple exostoses was found to overlap the distal end of the LGS deletion region, indicating that the EXT1 gene is distal to the TRPS1 gene and supporting the hypothesis that Langer-Giedion syndrome is due to loss of functional copies of both the TRPS1 and the EXT1 genes.
Early relapse after peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in acute myelogenous leukemia with t(8;21)]	We report a 3-year-old boy with acute myelogenous leukemia, who relapsed very early after peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). He was admitted with a tumor in maxillar sinus and hemorrhagic diathesis and was diagnosed as having acute myelogenous leukemia with t(8;21). He achieved complete remission with etoposide, cytosine arabinoside and mitoxantrone. After 8 courses of consolidation therapy and marrow ablative chemotherapy, he received PBSCT. G-CSF was given from day 0 because of severe infection. WBC and platelete counts rapidly increased, however, from day 20 platelet count spontaneously decreased. Concomitantly bone marrow examination revealed the presence of blastic cells. RT-PCR showed that the presence of AML 1/MTG 8 chimera mRNA in the cryopreserved PBSC samples. In vitro analysis also revealed that leukemic cells had G-CSF receptors and increased 3H-thymidine uptake in the presence of G-CSF. These findings strongly suggest that the reinfusion of leukemic cells in PBSC and the administration of G-CSF after PBSCT might be relevant to early relapse in this patient.
Use of decision analysis to evaluate patients' choices of diagnostic prenatal test.	Women with a family history of a chromosomal or genetic abnormality must weigh several factors in choosing between amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling. We compared the prenatal test choices of three such women with those of decision analytic models that incorporated their preferences. Patient preferences were assessed using visual linear rating scales. Threshold analysis was used to determine preference ranges, and stochastic sensitivity analysis to provide confidence levels, for each choice of test. The test choices of patients and decision analytic models agreed in one case, and disagreed in two cases. In one of the latter two cases, stochastic and threshold analyses showed the disagreement to be slight; for small shifts in preference differences for first- vs. second-trimester diagnosis, or first- vs. second-trimester therapeutic abortion, patient and decision model would have agreed. In the other, stochastic analysis showed their differences to be large; there were no thresholds for early diagnosis, or for early therapeutic abortion, that would have led to agreement between patient and model. In the two cases in which patient and decision model agreed or slightly disagreed, the patients had made their own choice of prenatal test. In the case in which patient and decision model strongly disagreed, the patient's physician had shared in the choice of test. Decision analysis can be useful in analyzing prenatal test choices based on individual preferences for pregnancy outcomes. When choices of patients and decision models do not agree, examination of the locus of decision making (patient vs. physician) may help resolve apparent differences.
Detection of a subtle rearrangement of chromosome 22 using molecular techniques.	Conventional cytogenetics is a useful clinical tool that has a lower limit of sensitivity of 2-5 Mb for detection of duplications or deletions. Because the threshold of clinically significant aneusomy is below this range, there is a need for approaches to improve the sensitivity of the detection of aneusomy. We have implemented a system of screening for subtle unbalanced translocations in children with multiple congenital anomalies of unknown cause. Our approach uses subtelomeric microsatellite markers to detect small areas of segmental aneusomy due to unbalanced translocations. Herein we report a patient with severe multiple congenital anomalies and a normal karyotype who was diagnosed by this approach. Microsatellite markers from 41 telomeres were analyzed and were normal with the exception of those on distal chromosome 22. Further analysis with additional microsatellites and fluorescent in situ hybridization confirmed duplication of 22q13.2-qter. We conclude that microsatellite screening can detect subtle unbalanced translocations in children with severe anomalies.
Correlation of the site of M-bcr breakpoint with chronic phase duration, blastic crisis lineage and thrombocytosis in Ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia.	The breakpoints on chromosome 22 in CML occur within a 5.8 kb region called the Major breakpoint cluster region (M-bcr). DNA mapping within the M-bcr region was performed in 41 long term followed Ph1-positive CML patients using the Southern blot technique. The purpose of this study was to determine whether localization of M-bcr breakpoint correlates with the length of chronic phase of the disease, blastic crisis lineage and thrombocytosis at the time of initial diagnosis. Our results fail to indicate any correlation between breakpoint localization and duration of chronic phase, blastic crisis lineage and platelet count at diagnosis.
t(9;22)(q22-31;q11-12) is a consistent marker of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: evaluation of three cases.	Three cases of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma with typical histologic and ultrastructural features were investigated cytogenetically. All three cases showed a reciprocal chromosome translocation characterized as t(9;22)(q22-31)(q11-12), thus confirming the findings in three previously karyotyped cases of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma in the literature. These data add significantly to the evidence of t(9;22) being diagnostic for extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma. Other previously published cases with a range of complex karyotypes were less well defined morphologically. In cases with limited diagnostic material this karyotype might facilitate distinction from myxoid liposarcoma, which consistently shows t(12;16). Clear cell sarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor, and desmoplastic round cell tumor also show involvement of chromosome 22 with formation of a hybrid gene between the Ewing's sarcoma gene on band q12 and a transcription factor gene. Whether rearrangement of the Ewing's sarcoma gene is also present in extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is not clear at present. Cloning of the (9;22) translocation might provide important clues to the pathogenesis of this type of chondrosarcoma.
Molecular pathogenesis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma: a clinical perspective.	Despite a common origin from mature lymphoid cells, non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) represent a surprisingly heterogeneous group of lymphoid malignancies whose classification is continuously being remodeled. The most recent proposal, the Revised European-American classification, introduces pathogenetic features among the classification criteria. In this respect, knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of NHL, which is based upon genetic lesions leading to activation of proto-oncogenes (e.g. BCL-1, BCL-2, BCL-6, c-MYC) or disruption of tumor suppressor genes (e.g. p53), is becoming increasingly relevant for the clinician. These lesions combine into multiple molecular pathways which are selectively associated with distinct NHL types. Thus, for example, rearrangements of BCL-1, BCL-2, BCL-6, and c-MYC ar the genetic hallmarks of mantle cell, follicular, diffuse large cell, and Burkitt's lymphoma, respectively. Overall, from clinical perspective, NHL genetic lesions serve three purposes: a) they assist and complement histologic diagnosis; b) they provide a molecular marker with prognostic relevance; c) they allow evaluation of minimal residual disease through highly specific and highly sensitive technologies.
Condensation anomalies and exclusion in micronuclei of rearranged chromosomes in human fibroblasts cultured in vitro.	Anomalies of chromatin condensation, such as fragmentation, uncoiling and pulverization, were observed in XP9UV25, a xeroderma pigmentosum fibroblast clone in which a high proportion of cells carried an end-to-end dicentric chromosome, dic (5;16) (p15.2;q24), that gives rise during propagation in culture to a variety of dicentric and monocentric derivatives. The coiling anomaly affected exclusively part of a rearranged chromosome, in particular the region previously involved in breakage events. The heterochromatic 16q region, which is a preferential breakpoint in the formation of dicentric and monocentric derivatives, was consistently the limit of the uncoiled or pulverized regions. This observation suggests that the anomalous chromatin behavior could derive from alteration of a region relevant for the correct condensation of the chromosome. In XP9UV25 the frequency of nuclei with associated micronuclei increased with time in culture, in parallel with that of mitoses with dicentric chromosomes. In situ hybridization with DNA probes specific for chromosomes 5 and 16 revealed hybridization signals in about 40% of micronuclei. Since the frequency of micronuclei is about ten times less than that of dicentrics, it is probable that only the rearranged chromosomes undergoing coiling anomalies are excluded in micronuclei.
Chromosome morphology during meiosis of normal and Robertsonian translocation-carrying rams (Ovis aries).	A detailed description is given of the meiotic chromosomes of the normal ram (54,XY) and of the chromosomes at diakinesis-metaphase I in rams heterozygous for the t1, t2 and t3 and homozygous for the t1 and t3 Robertsonian translocation chromosomes. Analyses were made on diakinesis-metaphase I chromosomes in 309 cells from normal rams and 2402 cells from the Robertsonian translocation carriers. Hypomodal cell counts were due to missing chromosomal elements and hypermodal counts were due either to separation of the chromosomes of the sex bivalent or to separation of the components of an autosomal bivalent. Trivalent formation was characteristic for the heterozygous Robertsonian translocation carriers while the homozygous carriers had an additional large bivalent. An association between the sex bivalent and a small autosomal bivalent at diakinesis-metaphase I is reported.
Cytogenetic examination of pre-implantation blastocysts of ewes mated to rams heterozygous for the Massey I (t1) translocation.	One hundred-and-two 13- to 18-day blastocysts were collected from 98 Scottish Blackface ewes mated to one of four New Zealand Romney rams heterozygous for the Massey I (t1) translocation. The karyotype of 75 blastocysts was established, of which 22 were 54,XY, 18 were 54,XX, 20 were 53,XY,t1, and 15 were 53,XX,t1. It is suggested that these results indicated that there was no increase in embryonic loss in ewes mated to rams heterozygous for the Massey I (t1) translocation and that the unbalanced secondary spermatocytes in heterozygous males probably did not mature to spermatozoa.
Influence of gene duplication and X-inactivation on mouse mitochondrial malic enzyme activity and electrophoretic patterns.	We have investigated, with and without the influence of X-inactivation, the relationship between autosomal gene-dosage and gene-product in a mammalian system, the mouse. The gene was mitochondrial malic enzyme (Mod-2), shown to lie on Chromosome 7 between the albino (c) and shaker-1 (sh-1) loci, and the enzyme was its product, mitochondrial malic enzyme (MOD-2). Gene duplication, with and without the influence of X-inactivation, was achieved using a translocation that involves the insertion of a portion of Chr 7, including Mod-2, into the X, T(X;7)1Ct. A 1:1 relationship for Mod-2 dosage and MOD-2 activity was found in heart mitochondria. Evidence of X-inactivation of Mod-2 was noted in heart and kidney preparations from females carrying a Mod-2 duplication (one copy of Mod-2 in the X and two copies of Mod-2 on Chr 7). We conclude that the expression of an autosomal locus attached to X-chromatin depends upon whether the translocation is in a balanced or unbalanced state.
Diagnosis and follow-up in chronic myeloid leukemia. Detection and quantification of specific transcripts with the help of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction]	The Philadelphia chromosome in cells of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia can be detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We have tested two new methods for this purpose. For diagnostic purposes, three different BCR-ABL translocations (b3a2, b2a2 and ela2) can be detected in a multiprimed, one step PCR reaction. By using a competitor DNA construct and a two-step, nested PCR reaction, a quantitative measure of the number of specific BCR-ABL transcripts can be estimated. We tested five patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. All of them showed positive BCR-ABL translocations in the diagnostic test. Patients with other myeloproliferative disorders, used as controls, were all negative. Quantitative measurements of specific BCR-ABL mRNA showed that as few as ten transcripts could be quantified in the assay. The analysis showed that coefficients of variation between 15% and 30% were obtained for specific transcripts per micrograms RNA, whereas specific BCR-ABL per normal ABL showed a coefficient of variation of 10%. These new methods to detect BCR-ABL translocation by RT-PCR should provide easy and sensitive diagnosis, and possibilities of monitoring residual disease or relapse.
Translocation (3;3) in a patient with thrombocytopenia and erythroid dysplasia.	We describe a case with a translocation between the two chromosomes 3 with breakpoints q21 and q26, associated with a unique constellation of hematologic abnormalities. Megakaryocytic dysplasia and peripheral thrombocytosis are the most common abnormalities associated with this chromosome abnormality. Our patient had acute myeloid leukemia (AML), thrombocytopenia, dyserythropoiesis, and an increased myeloid/erythroid ration but no mekakaryocytic dysplasia. Although multilineage involvement has been reported, erythrocyte dysplasia associated with thrombocytopenia and without megakaryocyte dysplasia appears to be extremely rare. Our case supports the speculation that #3 abnormalities with breakpoints q21 and q26 affect a pluripotent stem cell and suggests that megakaryocytic involvement may not be pathognomonic in hematologic abnormalities with t(3;3)(q21;26).
A mucoepidermoid carcinoma of minor salivary gland with t(11;19)(q21;p13.1) as the only karyotypic abnormality.	We present the cytogenetic analysis of a mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the minor salivary gland with t(11,19)(q21;p13.1) as the sole karyotypic abnormality. Our findings, along with those of previous reports, indicate that this translocation is an early and most likely a primary event in the development of a least a subset of these neoplasms.
Infant cardiac fibroma with clonal t(1;9)(q32;q22) and review of benign fibrous tissue cytogenetics.	Cardiac fibromas are rare lesions which occur more frequently in infants and children than in the adult population. These tumors are nonmalignant proliferations of connective tissue most often found in the left ventricular myocardium or septal myocardium. No cytogenetic studies of cardiac fibromas have been reported. We report a case of an infant with a subepicardial tumor in whom the cytogenetic analysis showed a clonal reciprocal translocation, 46,XY,t(1;9)(q32;q22),inv(9)(p11q12)c. We review the literature regarding cardiac fibromas and briefly discuss the cytogenetics of benign fibrous neoplasias.
t(1;5)(q23;q33) in a patient with high-risk B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The t(1;5)(q23;q33) is a rare genetic anomaly that was reported previously in two infants with a myeloproliferative disorder and eosinophilia and in one adult patient with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). A 13-year-old boy with high-risk early pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who presented to our institution carried the t(1;5)(q23;q33). He had an initial blast count of 230 X 10(9)/L and responded poorly to prednisone. Complete remission (CR) was achieved, and he had a bone marrow (BM) relapse 3 months after despite intensive consolidation therapy. He underwent allogeneic BM transplantation (BMT) from a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical siblings in early relapse with total body irradiation (TBI) and cyclophosphamide conditioning. He had a short second CR with a central nervous system (CNS) relapse on day + 106 after BMT. Two of the previously reported patients also did not respond to chemotherapy. The t(1;5)(q23;q33) appears to be a rare lineage nonspecific anomaly related to hematologic malignancies that are resistant to current therapy.
t(1;19)(q23;p13) in a case of acute monocytic leukemia.	Translocation (1;19)(q23;p13) is considered a specific chromosome aberration in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We report a case of M5 acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) with t(1;19). In all mitoses studied from peripheral blood (PB) cells, the pathological karyotype 51,XX,t(1;19)(q23;p13),+8, +der(19)t(1;19)(q23;p13), +3mar was detected. No rearrangement of the E2A gene was detected. We believe this case shows that cytogenetically indistinguishable aberrations may be accompanied by quite different molecular events.
t(4;19)(q35;q13.1): a recurrent change in primitive mesenchymal tumors?	We report an apparently balanced t(4;19)(q35;q13.1) as the sole cytogenetic change in a highly malignant extraskeletal sarcoma in a 12-year-old-boy. Tumor cells were negative for all immunocytochemical markers except vimentin and neuron-specific enolase. Electron microscopy indicated chondroblastic differentiation. The tumor was categorized as a malignant sarcoma with differentiation toward extraskeletal mesenchymal chondrosarcoma. Reports of a similar translocation in an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) and in a dedifferentiated sarcoma with both rhabdomyosarcomatous and osteosarcomatous elements suggest that this translocation can arise in a primitive mesenchymal stem cell that can differentiate along at least these three pathways.
New variant Ph translocation in chronic myeloid leukemia: t(Y;22)(p11;q11).	A 4-year-old boy with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) was shown to have a variant Ph t(Y;22)(p11;q11). To our knowledge, this is the first report of a variant Ph translocation involving Y. Molecular analysis showed that the breakpoint on chromosome 22 is in the breakpoint cluster region (bcr), typical of CML with the classic t(9;22), suggesting that it might be a complex Ph translocation with the involvement of 9q34.
Differentiating therapy in acute myeloid leukemia.	Differentiating therapy is a new antineoplastic strategy which has received increasing attention due to the remarkable activity of the vitamin A derivative, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Although it has been known for years that a variety of agents, including retinoids, could induce leukemic cells to differentiate in vitro, it was not until the initial report from Shanghai in 1988 that laboratory studies translated into clinical activity and benefit in patients. Since this initial report, a number of studies have confirmed that the majority of patients with both newly diagnosed and previously chemotherapy-treated patients with APL achieve complete remission (CR) with ATRA. In addition, the characteristic life-threatening coagulopathy resolves quickly. Several limitations to this approach have emerged, including the development of retinoid resistance, hyperleukocytosis and the retinoic acid syndrome, a constellation of findings including unexplained fever, fluid retention, pleuropericardial effusions and pulmonary infiltrates. Although ATRA is very effective in inducing CR, its benefits compared to conventional chemotherapy are only now being addressed. The first prospective randomized trial comparing ATRA plus chemotherapy to chemotherapy alone was terminated early because of an improved event-free survival for patients receiving ATRA. The benefit was attributable to a difference in relapse rate. A large, intergroup, prospective, randomized trial comparing conventional chemotherapy to ATRA for induction and ATRA to observation for maintenance has recently completed accrual and will provide insight into the emerging role of ATRA in patients with APL. ATRA represents the first example of a specific form of antileukemic therapy targeting a specific genetic abnormality and may serve as a paradigm for the development of differentiating therapy for patients with other hematologic malignancies.
The role of anthracyclines in adult acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.	The role of anthracyclines (ANT) in the treatment of adult acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is poorly defined as regards drug dosage, schedule, preferable compound, and indications for use in specific treatment phases or disease subset. We therefore reviewed ANT treatment results in adult ALL. Altogether, an early and intensive use of ANT would improve both initial response rate and long-term disease-free survival; idarubicin (IDR) exhibits a considerable antileukaemic activity deserving further evaluation as possible reference drug; and the prognosis of CD10+ t(9;22)/BCR-ABL- ALL can be particularly good following an early dose-intensive ANT consolidation program.
Mantle cell lymphoma: a lymphoproliferative disorder associated with aberrant function of the cell cycle.	Mantle cell lymphoma is a B cell lymphoproliferative disorder cytogenetically characterized by the t(11;14)(q13;q32) which at molecular level involves the Bcl-1/PRAD-1 gene. Immunophenotypically it is characterized by co-expression of CD5+/CD20+ and CD23- antigens. Histologic patterns are recognized as: diffuse, mantle zone and nodular. Diffuse mantle lymphoma is the most frequent and is associated with a poor prognosis. The rearrangement of the Bcl-1/PRAD-1 increases the synthesis of cyclin D1. Cyclin D1 binds to Cdk4 and forms a complex, then binds to and phosphorylates Rb protein thus triggering cells to progress from G0/G1 to S and thus drives cellular proliferation. The 5-year survival in the MD Anderson series was less than 30% and anthracycline regimens do not appear to have any major impact on the outcomes of cases with nodular or diffuse histopathological patterns. Intensive therapeutic programs and first line autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation remains experimental.
The complete 685-kilobase DNA sequence of the human beta T cell receptor locus.	The human beta T cell receptor (TCR) locus, comprising a complex family of genes, has been sequenced. The locus contains two types of coding elements--TCR elements (65 variable gene segments and two clusters of diversity, joining, and constant segments) and eight trypsinogen genes --that constitute 4.6 percent of the DNA. Genome-wide interspersed repeats and locus-specific repeats span 30 and 47 percent, respectively, of the 685-kilobase sequence. A comparison of the germline variable elements with their approximately 300 complementary DNA counterparts reveals marked differential patterns of variable gene expression, the importance of exonuclease activity in generating TCR diversity, and the predominant tendency for only functional variable elements to be present in complementary DNA libraries.
The chromosomal distribution and organization of sheep satellite I and II centromeric DNA using characterized sheep-hamster somatic cell hybrids.	A panel of sheep-hamster somatic cell hybrids containing single sheep chromosomes was used to study the chromosomal distribution and organization of two families of sheep centromeric satellite DNA. This study shows that the centromeres of the sheep metacentric chromosomes 1, 2 and 3 differ in their organization and relative quantities of sheep satellite I DNA. The results, when correlated with the proposed formation of these metacentric chromosomes by ancient Robertsonian translocations, suggest a loss or replacement of satellite I centromeric DNA from the centromeres of these sheep chromosomes. Using Southern blot analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization, this study shows that the recent centric fusion chromosome t2 (rob 9;10) contains little satellite II DNA. Together these results suggest the possibility of substantial reorganization of sheep centromeric DNA families after Robertsonian translocations.
Analysis using dual-colour fluorescence in situ hybridization of meiotic chromosome segregation in male mice heterozygous for a reciprocal translocation.	Meiotic chromosome behaviour was investigated in male mice heterozygous for the translocation T(7;16)67H. At metaphase I, chain-of-four quadrivalents were present in approximately 80% of the spermatocytes; the bulk of remaining cells contained a ring quadrivalent, with only a few having either a trivalent plus univalent configuration or two bivalents. A low rate of non-disjunction, approximately 5%, was found through analysis of C-banded metaphase II spermatocytes. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization with differentially labelled whole chromosome paints, a wide array of segregation products were observed at metaphase II, depending on whether they arose from alternate, adjacent I, adjacent II orientation at metaphase I or were uninformative for alternative/adjacent I because of the presence of a chiasma in an interstitial pairing segment. Some 62% of the cells fell into this latter category, with only small proportions clearly arising through alternate (1.8%) or adjacent I (0.7%) orientations. Approximately 30% of the cells contained the products of adjacent II orientation. Consideration of the data suggested that most of these cells arose from metaphase I cells that contained a chain quadrivalent. Ring quadrivalents appeared predominantly to orientate in an alternate/adjacent I manner.
A retrovirus carrying the promyelocyte-retinoic acid receptor PML-RARalpha fusion gene transforms haematopoietic progenitors in vitro and induces acute leukaemias.	The promyelocyte (PML)-retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) fusion gene results from a t(15;17) chromosome translocation in acute promyelocytic leukaemia. We have analysed the oncogenic potential of the human fusion PML-RARalpha product in chicken using retrovirus vectors. We show that PML-RARalpha transforms very early haematopoietic progenitor cells in vitro and induces acute leukaemias. Neither PML nor RARalpha domains alone achieve such a transformation. The PML-RARalpha viruses recovered from the transformed cells carry two point mutations in the PML domain, one of which alters both the pattern of intracellular localization of the fusion protein and its functional interference with AP-1, thus defining an essential domain in PML for oncogenic transformation.
Evidence for structural heterogeneity from molecular cytogenetic analysis of dicentric Robertsonian translocations.	Most Robertsonian translocations are dicentric, suggesting that the location of chromosomal breaks leading to their formation occur in the acrocentric short arm. Previous cytogenetic and molecular cytogenetic studies have shown that few Robertsonian translocations retain ribosomal genes or beta-satellite DNA. Breakpoints in satellite III DNA, specifically between two chromosome 14-specific subfamilies, pTRS-47 and pTRS-63, have been indicated for most of the dicentric 14q21q and 13q14q translocations that have been studied. We have analyzed the structure of 36 dicentric translocations, using several repetitive DNA probes that localize to the acrocentric short arm. The majority of the translocations retained satellite III DNA, while others proved variable in structure. Of 10 14q21q translocations analyzed, satellite III DNA was undetected in 1; 6 retained one satellite III DNA subfamily, pTRS-47; and 3 appeared to contain two 14-specific satellite III DNA sub-families, pTRS-47 and pTRS-63. In 10/11 translocations involving chromosome 15, the presence of satellite III DNA was observed. Our results show that various regions of the acrocentric short arm, and, particularly, satellite III DNA sequences, are involved in the formation of Robertsonian translocations.
Identification of a novel transcript disrupted by a balanced translocation associated with DiGeorge syndrome.	Most cases of DiGeorge syndrome (DGS) and related abnormalities are associated with deletions within 22q11. Shortest region of deletion overlap (SRO) mapping previously identified a critical region (the DGCR) of 500 kb, which was presumed to contain a gene or genes of major effect in the haploinsufficiency syndromes. The DGCR also contains sequences disrupted by a balanced translocation that is associated with DGS--the ADU breakpoint. We have cloned sequences at the breakpoint and screened for novel genes in its vicinity. A series of alternatively spliced transcripts expressed during human and murine embryogenesis, but with no obvious protein encoding potential, were identified. The gene encoding these RNAs has been named DGCR5 and it is disrupted by the patient ADU breakpoint. DGCR5 is distinct from the DGCR3 open reading frame (ORF) previously shown to be interrupted by the ADU translocation, although DGCR3 is embedded within a DGCR5 intron and in the same (predicted) transcriptional orientation. No mutations of DGCR5 have yet been detected. By analogy to other loci encoding conserved, nontranslated RNAs, it is possible that DGCR5 originates from a cis-acting transcriptional control element in the vicinity of the ADU/VDU breakpoint. Disruption of such an element would result in altered transcription of neighboring genes secondary to a position effect, a hypothesis in keeping with recent refinement of the SRO placing the ADU breakpoint outside the DGCR.
Phylogenetic affinities of the grasses to other monocots as revealed by molecular analysis of chloroplast DNA.	The distribution of structural alterations of the chloroplast genome found in grass chloroplast (cp) DNA in comparison with that of tobacco was systematically surveyed in the cpDNAs of monocots. Southern hybridization and/or PCR analyses for the detection of (1) three inversions in the large single-copy region, (2) loss of an intron in the rpoC1 gene, (3) an extra-sequence insertion in the rpoC2 gene, (4) the deletion of ORF2280, (5) rearrangements of the accD (ORF512) gene, and (6) non-reciprocal translocation of the rpl23 gene, were carried out on cpDNAs isolated from 58 species, 22 families, and 11 orders, which covered almost all families of monocots. These structural alterations of cpDNA mostly occurred at the family level. However, only part of the Restionaceae possessed the inversion that characterizes the lineage of grass differentiation. The order of mutational events made it possible to reconstruct grass phylogeny in monocots. Since no variations in structural alterations of the cpDNA were found among the Poaceae, grass plants were inferred to have originated from an ancestor harboring these structural alterations of the chloroplast genome. These phylogenetic relationships were supported by the sequence data of rbcL.
Postmetaphase nuclear formation: loss of a chromosomal epitope coincident with apparent chromatid coalescence.	Previously, we have conceptualized mitotic nuclear formation following metaphase as a morphogenic process and have suggested that sets of chromatids, after separation from a metaphase plate, can be thought of as prenuclei. Such structures can be grouped temporally as either early or late prenuclei based on morphologic, morphometric and density characteristics. Sequential ordering of early prenuclei is of particular interest because it reveals that condensed chromatids coalesce with the resulting formation of a unique chambered structure. In this paper we describe data obtained with a newly raised monoclonal antibody (mAb-2) that initially recognizes an epitope(s) on metaphase chromosomes. Light and confocal fluorescent microscopy of early prenuclei reveal that the chromosomal epitope can no longer be detected about chromatids after their apparent coalescence. Immunoblot analysis of dispersed polypeptides of metaphase plates and early prenuclei indicates that the major protein antigens recognized by mAb-2 have apparent molecular masses of approximately 106000 and 80500 and that each is likely composed of multiple charge isomers. A dual fluorescent analysis using mAb-2 and high-titer anti-lamin B serum provides additional evidence that chromatid coalescence is a separate, early event that precedes nuclear lamina formation.
Detection of the t(2;5)(p23;q35) chromosomal translocation in large B-cell lymphomas other than anaplastic large cell lymphoma.	In general, the large cell lymphomas are a cytogenetically heterogeneous group of diseases, and the cytogenetic findings do not correlate with morphological findings in this group of malignant lymphomas. The CD30-positive anaplastic large cell lymphomas, however, are thought to be an exception, with the t(2;5) reported to correlate with the morphological changes of this disease entity. A subgroup of Hodgkin's disease cases have been reported by some investigators to have the t(2;5) translocation, leading to speculation that these two diseases are related. In the current study, the authors used a sensitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methodology to evaluate the frequency of t(2;5) in 33 cases of large cell lymphoma, of B lineage, other than anaplastic large cell lymphoma. The authors detected evidence of t(2;5) in four of the cases (12%), a frequency similar to that of the authors' previous study of cases of CD30 positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Three of the positive large B-cell lymphoma cases were CD30 negative and were morphologically indistinguishable from the cases without evidence of t(2;5). The fourth case had a subpopulation of CD30 positive cells but also did not have morphological features of anaplastic large cell lymphoma. These results would suggest that t(2;5) is not restricted to cases of malignant lymphomas with anaplastic morphology or to CD30 expression.
Investigating and improving the specificity of ribozymes directed against the bcr-abl translocation.	Chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) is associated with a translocation between the ABL and BCR genes on chromosomes 9 and 22, t(9;22). The resulting transcription and translation products, bcr-abl mRNA and p210bcr-abl, are unique to the malignant cells and as such are ideal targets for specific chemicals or drugs. We have designed hammerhead ribozymes to cleave the two predominant forms of bcr-abl mRNA, b2a2 and b3a2. Synthetic bcr-abl RNA substrates were cleaved by the ribozymes in vitro, but so was a wild-type abl RNA sequence. bcr RNA was not cleaved in vitro and mutant ribozymes showed no cleavage activity. Ribozymes designed to cleave 9 nucleotides (nt) from either of the fusion points were non-specific for the bcr-abl substrate, but a ribozyme designed to cleave 3 nt upstream of the b3a2 fusion point was specific for b3a2 RNA. However, this ribozyme was less efficient than the others. The shortening of one of the ribozymes arms from 10 nt to 4 nt resulted in a ribozyme that was more specific without losing any efficiency. We conclude that it is possible to specifically cleave bcr-abl RNA in vitro by using hammerhead ribozymes.
Incidence and clinical outcome of children with BCR/ABL-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). A prospective RT-PCR study based on 673 patients enrolled in the German pediatric multicenter therapy trials ALL-BFM-90 and CoALL-05-92.	A variety of oncogenes are activated by specific chromosomal translocations, which are associated with distinct subtypes of leukemia. The identification of these rearrangements provides critical diagnostic and prognostic information, which may contribute to the selection of specific anti-leukemic therapy. The translocation t(9;22), the equivalent of the BCR/ABL rearrangement, is associated with a poor prognosis. We therefore used RT-PCR to detect this molecular event in a prospective study including 890 children. 673 of them suffered from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) at primary diagnosis and a transcription of the chimeric gene was detected in 21 of 648 with a successful analysis (3.2%). All children were treated by one of the two German multicenter childhood ALL therapy studies ALL-BFM-90 or COALL-05-92, respectively. Comparison of clinical features between BCR/ABL-positive and -negative children showed no significant differences regarding WBC, percentage of blasts, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly and age. Immunophenotypic studies at diagnosis in 21 BCR/ABL-positive children identified common ALL in 16 patients (76.2%), pre-B-ALL in four (19.0%), and an early T-lineage ALL in one (4.8%). Coexpression of myeloid antigens (CD13 and/or CD33) was observed in six of 16 common ALL patients as well as in the one child with early T-lineage ALL phenotype. The type of breakpoint (m-BCR/ABL: n = 14; M-BCR/ABL: n = 7) showed no correlation with clinical parameters. A comparison of cytogenetic and molecular data was performed in 16 positive patients and was concordant in all of them. We analyzed the response to the prednisone pretreatment and found a higher incidence of poor responders among the BCR/ABL-positive children. Regarding the event-free survival (EFS) of BCR/ABL-positive (0.53) and -negative patients (0.79) after a follow-up of 2 years, significant differences (P < 0.05) between both groups could be demonstrated.
DNA-binding domain of AML1, expressed in t(8;21) and t(3;21) myeloid leukemias, inhibits PEBP2/CBF DNA-binding but is not sufficient to transform 32D cl3 myeloid cells.	Truncated AML1 proteins are predicted to be expressed from out-of-frame AML1 transcripts present in myeloid leukemia cells harboring t(8;21) and t(3;21). To test whether these proteins, consisting of almost exclusively an N-terminal AML1 DNA-binding domain, interfere with myeloid differentiation we expressed a similar truncated AML1 protein in 32D cl3 myeloid cells. In all clones examined, the ectopically expressed truncated AML1 protein prevented binding of endogenous PEBP2/CBFs to DNA, possibly by interacting with all available CBF beta subunits. However, compared to control clones, the 32D cl3 clones expressing truncated AML1 remained IL-3 dependent for survival, proliferated similarly in low and high concentrations of IL-3, and differentiated similarly upon transfer to G-CSF. Thus, truncated AML1 proteins may contribute to myeloid leukemogeneis by inhibiting PEBP2/CBF activities, although contributions from other oncoproteins are likely required as well.
High incidence of TEL/AML1 fusion resulting from a cryptic t(12;21) in childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia in Taiwan.	Despite its rarity by routine karyotypic analysis, cryptic t(12;21)(p12-13;q22) translocation leading to TEL/AML1 fusion has been recognized as the most frequent genetic rearrangement in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in two recent studies, one from France and the other from the United States. To estimate the frequency of this abnormality in the Chinese population, we studied 41 children with ALL and 17 with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in two medical centers in Taiwan, using the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay. Results of this analysis demonstrated a 17% frequency of this translocation in the ALL population overall and 19% in patients with B-lineage ALL, similar to previous findings in Caucasian children. None of the patients with AML had TEL/AML1 fusion transcripts. In addition to its association with the B-lineage immunophenotype, TEL/AML1 was also correlated with a low presenting leukocyte count and favorable age (1-10 years). These findings, combined with earlier reports, indicate that TEL/AML1 fusion is the most frequent genetic abnormality in childhood ALL, regardless of race. Molecular diagnosis of t(12;21)-positive ALL may identify a subgroup of patients who do not require intensive treatment for cure.
X/autosome translocation in three generations ascertained through an infant with trisomy 16p due to failure of spreading of X-inactivation.	We report on a reciprocal translocation t(X;16)(q28;p12) detected in a newborn girl with clinical manifestations of partial trisomy 16p. A balanced translocation was found in the mother and in the maternal grandmother. Replication studies on lymphocytes and fibroblasts showed nonrandom X-inactivation in both the patient and her mother. In the mother, the derivative X (der(X)) was active, whereas the normal X was late replicating. In contrast, in the patient the der(X) was late replicating, and there was no spreading of X-inactivation onto the autosomal segment, thus giving an explanation for the full clinical picture of partial trisomy 16p.
Molecular studies of translocations and trisomy involving chromosome 13.	Twenty-four cases of trisomy 13 and one case with disomy 13, but a de novo dic(13,13) (p12p12) chromosome, were examined with molecular markers to determine the origin of the extra (or rearranged) chromosome. Twenty-one of 23 informative patients were consistent with a maternal origin of the extra chromosome. Lack of a third allele at any locus in both paternal origin cases indicate a somatic duplication of the paternal chromosome occurred. Five cases had translocation trisomy: one de novo rob(13q14q), one paternally derived rob(13q14q), two de novo t(13q13q), and one mosaic de novo t(13q13q)/r(13). The patient with a paternal rob(13q14q) had a maternal meiotic origin of the trisomy; thus, the paternal inheritance of the translocation chromosome was purely coincidental. Since there is not a significantly increased risk for unbalanced offspring of a t(13q14q) carrier and most trisomies are maternal in origin, this result should not be surprising; however, it illustrates that one cannot infer the origin of translocation trisomy based on parental origin of the translocation. Lack of a third allele at any locus in one of the three t(13q13q) cases indicates that it was most likely an isochromosome of postmeiotic origin, whereas the other two cases showed evidence of recombination. One balanced (nontrisomic) case with a nonmosaic 45, -13, -13, +t(13;13) karyotype was also investigated and was determined to be a somatic Robertsonian translocation between the maternal and paternal homologues, as has been found for all balanced homologous Robertsonian translocations so far investigated. Thus, it is also incorrect to assume in de novo translocation cases that the two involved chromosomes are even from the same parent. Despite a maternal origin of the trisomy, we cannot therefore infer anything about the parental origin of the chromosomes 13 and 14 involved in the translocation in the de novo t(13q14q) case nor for the two t(13;13) chromosomes showing a meiotic origin of the trisomy.
A translocation interrupts the COL5A1 gene in a patient with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and hypomelanosis of Ito.	Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a genetically and pathogenetically heterogeneous group of disorders of which at least 11 types have been described. All are connective tissue disorders characterized by defects of the skin, ligaments and blood vessels with the clinical spectrum ranging from innocuous findings to lethality. Mutations in the genes encoding the major fibrillar collagen types I and III have been demonstrated in EDS types VII and IV, respectively, while mutations in the lysyl hydroxylase and ATP7A genes, with roles in collagen cross-linking, are responsible for EDS types VI and IX. The biochemical and molecular bases for the most common forms of EDS (types I, II and III) are unknown. Here, we describe a balanced translocation between chromosome 9 and an X chromosome that disrupts the minor fibrillar collagen type V gene COL5A1 in a patient with both EDS type I and hypomelanosis of Ito. The breakpoint occurs at 9q34 within COL5A1 intron 24 and interestingly, within a LINE-1 (L1) element at Xp21.1. A fusion mRNA between COL5A1 and an Alu sequence is produced, but no aberrant protein is detectable. Rather, the amount of type V collagen is reduced in the patient's fibroblasts, suggesting haploinsufficiency as a cuase of the phenotype. This demonstrates that a mutation in a type V collagen gene, COL5A1, results in EDS type I, and shows the involvement of L1 sequences in a constitutional chromosomal translocation. Because collagen type V is a heteromorphic protein in which molecules may be composed of polypeptides encoded by three COL5A genes, this suggests all three genes as candidates for mutations in EDS.
Identification of a novel protein (VBP-1) binding to the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene product.	The tumor suppressor VHL gene product (pVHL), recently reported to bind to elongins B and C, is thought to regulate transcription elongation. To establish whether the VHL gene may have other functions, we here searched for additional cellular protein(s) that might bind to pVHL using a two-hybrid system and identified seven independent clones, including elongin C, but not elongin B. Three clones (unknown, imidopeptidase, and unknown) presumably bind to the N-terminal nonconserved region, whereas the four other clones [elongin C, the HIV tat-binding protein, the actin-binding protein Filamin (ABP280), and the HIBBJ46 (named VBP-1)] were found to bind to the wild-type pVHL but not to a C-terminal 156-amino acid deletion mutant. Interestingly, the HIV tat-binding protein and Filamin could bind to C-terminal 26-amino acid deleted pVHL, but elongin C and VBP-1 failed to do so. Thus, elongin C and VBP-1 require the C-terminal end of pVHL for binding. It was also established that epitope-tagged pVHL strongly forms complexes with VBP-1 in vivo using immunoprecipitation Western blotting analysis. VBP-1 was widely expressed in various cell lines tested, in which VHL mRNA can be detected. When the VBP-1 protein was solely expressed, it located to the cytoplasm and did not localize to the nucleus. However, when coexpressed with VHL, it can translocate to the nucleus. These results indicate that VBP-1 can form a complex with VHL protein in vivo and hence VHL affects the intracellular localization of VBP-1 protein.
Small cell variant of Ki-1 lymphoma associated with myelofibrosis and a novel constitutional chromosomal translocation t(3;4) (q13;q12).	An unusual case of small cell variant of Ki-1 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma diagnosed one year after an original diagnosis of idiopathic myelofibrosis is reported. On the second occasion, the patient presented with fever, lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly. A lymph node biopsy specimen confirmed a diagnosis of small cell variant of Ki-1 lymphoma. A repeat bone marrow biopsy specimen showed myelofibrosis with no evidence of lymphomatous infiltration, but cytogenetic studies on blood, bone marrow and skin fibroblasts revealed a novel chromosomal translocation t(3,4)(q13;q12).
Karyotype distributions in a stochastic model of reciprocal translocation.	A random process of reciprocal translocation for a fixed number k of chromosomes (or arms) will have an equilibrium distribution of chromosome lengths. In this paper we calculate this distribution, by analytical means for k = 2 and partially for k = 3, and simulate the means of the marginal distributions for higher k. We compare this with a random (i.e., ahistorical) distribution of genomic DNA among k chromosomes and to a selection of karyotypes of real organisms. The results motivate a revised model where translocations giving rise to undersize chromosomes are disadvantaged.
Chromosome extraction and revision of linkage group 2 in Tribolium castaneum.	We used a balancer chromosome to recover ethylmethanesulfonate-induced recessive mutations in a targeted region of the genome of the red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum) by the technique of chromosome extraction. The experiments reported herein constitute the first successful application of this powerful technique in the order Coleoptera. Using the balancer chromosome maxillopedia-Dachs3 (mxpDch-3), we recovered seven recessive visible variants representing seven distinct loci and several dozen recessive lethal variants representing at least five distinct loci after screening 1,607 EMS-mutagenized chromosomes. A subset of the mxpDch-3-extracted mutations were positioned on the map of the second linkage group by a series of two-, three-, and four-point crosses. The orientation of the homeotic gene complex (HOM-C) on this linkage group was also determined. With the advent of better and more varied balancer chromosomes and the concomitant improvement of chromosome extraction procedures for genetic analysis of T. castaneum, saturation mutagenesis of targeted regions of the genome is now feasible in this species.
Derivation and characterization of a somatic cell hybrid containing the portion of mouse chromosome 11 (MMU11) homologous to human chromosome 17q.	To contribute to the physical gene map of mouse chromosome 11 (MMU11) and to extend the mapping resources available for this chromosome, we have produced mouse x rat somatic cell hybrids containing only bands B5 to E of MMU11. Characterization of the hybrids by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and Southern blot analyses of MMU11 markers revealed two hybrids, T16Ad14B and T16Ad19A, that had selectively retained the 3(11) translocation product containing distal MMU11 (bands B5-E). Cytogenetic analysis of the hybrid T16Ad14B by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and conventional G-banding confirmed the presence of the 3(11) translocation chromosome. Mapping of markers in both the T16Ad14B and T16Ad19A hybrids localized the T16Ad translocation breakpoint between the proximal markers Atplb2 and Acrb and the more distal markers Scya2 and Mpo. Loci for D11Mit5, Rpo2-1, Trp53, Glut4, Acrb, and Atplb2 could all be localized proximal to the T16Ad breakpoint in band B5, between bands B1 and B5 on MMU11.
The molecular pathology of small round-cell tumours--relevance to diagnosis, prognosis, and classification.	Substantial improvements have been made in the treatment and survival of children with SRCT, resulting in an increased emphasis on precise histological diagnosis. Although diagnostic procedures such as electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry contribute in poorly differentiated cases, an accurate diagnosis can remain elusive in a proportion of SRCTs. The cytogenetic and molecular genetic abnormalities characteristic of the different SRCTs can now be consistently and rapidly identified from minimal quantities of tumour material, using the techniques of FISH and PCR. This, coupled with the identification of novel phenotypic characteristics, has had a major impact on SRCT diagnosis. The aim of a tumour classification is to identify disease entities which are biologically distinct and whose recognition is of clinical value. The recent advances described above demonstrate that the SRCTs are genotypically and phenotypically distinct tumour types and that the genetic abnormalities represent key alterations that influence both the morphology and the clinical behaviour of the tumour. This suggests that these advanced phenotypic and genotypic analyses should form an integral and complementary part of the laboratory assessment and clinical management of these forms of paediatric cancer.
Molecular analysis of the NPM-ALK rearrangement in Hodgkin's disease.	The fusion gene NPM-ALK occurs in a subset of anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs), as a result of a chromosomal translocation, t(2;5) (p23;q35). It has been suggested that Hodgkin's disease (HD) and ALCL share a common histogenesis because of pathological and phenotypical similarities. In order to check this hypothesis, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to detect the hybrid NPM-ALK gene in 30 tumour samples, including 22 lymph node biopsies from HD and eight ALCL specimens. The threshold level of sensitivity was shown to reach at least 1/10(4) by dilution experiments using cell lines as positive and negative controls. The expected 177 bp product indicative of the NPM-ALK rearrangement was identified in Karpas 299 and SUDHL-1 cell lines and in two out of eight ALCLs. The 22 HD cases were negative, even after two successive tests. Thus, since the ALCL-specific genetic alteration was absent in our series of HD cases, the present study does not support the hypothesis that HD and ALCL are histogenetically related entities.
Persistence of E2A/PBX1 transcripts in t(1;19) childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: correlation with chemotherapy intensity and clinical outcome.	The occurrence of t(1;19) translocation was investigated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the E2A/PBX1 hybrid message in a panel of 37 consecutive childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs). Three patients with B-precursor ALL were found to be positive at diagnosis and were re-tested during follow-up to assess the presence of minimal residual disease (MRD). Two of them became PCR-negative during treatment, whereas one remains positive 3 years after diagnosis. Since all three patients are presently in clinical and hematological complete remission, PCR detection of persistent E2A/ PBX1 transcript does not seem to affect significantly the DFS at 3 years. However, the predictivity for an eventual late relapse still remains to be assessed.
Fluorescent in-situ hybridization technique (FISH) in the diagnosis of Philadelphia translocation in chronic myeloid leukemia]	The Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) resulting from translocation t(9;22)(q34;q11) is observed in more than 90% of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Its molecular consequence is the genesis of a fusion gene BCR-ABL between the 5' sequences of the BCR gene (chromosome 22) and the 3' end of the ABL gene (chromosome 9). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using specific DNA probes provides a useful tool for the detection of t(9;22) and BCR-ABL rearrangement. We report our results using the FISH technique for t(9;22) assessment in the hematopoietic cells of patients with Ph-positive CML. The DNA libraries pBS 9 and pBS 22 containing multiple sequences derived from chromosomes 9 and 22 have been used to identify t(9;22) in metaphase cells. The cos bcr-51 and cos abl-18 probes that hybridize to unique sequences specific to the BCR and ABL genes have the ability to detect the BCR-ABL rearrangement in metaphase cells as well as in interphase nuclei. FISH is a sensitive and specific technique that represents a valuable complement to conventional cytogenetics. The BCR-ABL rearrangement can be detected in metaphase spreads of insufficient quality or from interphase nuclei in the case of terminally differentiated cells or of cells which do not divide in vitro. When the efficiency of hybridization and detection is good, a large number of cells can be analyzed. This is of major significance in assessment of response to treatment and definition of a cytogenetic remission. However, interphase cytogenetics may be difficult due to variations in signal resolution and background level. The FISH technique can also be used to detect the BCR-ABL rearrangement in cases of Ph negative BCR-ABL positive CML.
Action of interferon alpha and beta on four human melanoma cell lines in vitro.	Four human melanoma cell lines with different copy numbers of chromosomes 9 and 21q, as studied by the G-band technique, fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) and Polymerase chain reaction (PCR), were tested for their sensitivity to Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) in relation to dosage of interferon genes (#9) and interferon receptor genes (#21p). The two most sensitive cell lines were those containing the highest numbers of #9 per cell, while the number of #21q copies (receptor genes) seemed to have no influence on the interferon sensitivity.
A noncovalent binding-translocation mechanism for site-specific CC-1065-DNA recognition.	The molecular strategy by which small organic compounds recognise specific DNA sequences is of primary importance for rational drug design. CC-1065 is a potent alkylating agent that binds covalently to N3 of adenine and lies in the minor groove of double-stranded DNA. Its reaction with DNA occurs in a site-specific manner, with a preference for A. T-rich nucleotide sequences. In the present study, we developed a drug translocation assay to investigate the mechanism underlying this sequence selectivity. After exposure of plasmid DNA to saturating amounts of CC-1065, we observed that nearly 70% of plasmid-bound CC-1065 molecules formed stable, but noncovalent, complexes with DNA. These noncovalently bound drug molecules resisted purification by ethanol precipitation, dialysis, and sucrose gradient centrifugation, but retained the ability to translocate to DNA fragments containing a single high-affinity site for alkylation. This combination of non-covalent binding interactions and drug translocation provides a mechanism by which CC-1065 may locate specific alkylation sites in DNA.
Sterility introduced by release of genetically altered males to a domestic population of Aedes aegypti at the Kenya coast.	The release of males heterozygous for one or two sex-linked translocations was effective in introducing a high level of sterility into a domestic population of Aedes aegypti at a Rabai village. The effect of the releases continued for several weeks after the release period.
Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization detection of t(2;13)(q35;q14) in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma--a diagnostic tool in minimally invasive biopsies.	The identification of t(2;13)(q35;q14) is a useful aid in the accurate diagnosis of rhabdomyosarcoma, distinguishing it from other small round cell tumours and supporting the distinction between alveolar and embryonal forms. Cytogenetic analysis is difficult and with the increased use of minimally invasive biopsy methods and primary chemotherapy, adequate tumour material is not always available. To overcome these difficulties, two-colour interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to detect t(2;13)(q35;q14) was developed and its utility in assessing minimally invasive biopsies was investigated. Two cosmid clones which mapped proximal or distal to the breakpoint region 13q14 and one yeast artificial chromosome clone that mapped distal to the 2q35 breakpoint were identified. In interphase cells containing t(2;13)(q35;q14), the configuration of cosmid and yeast artificial chromosome signals demonstrated the presence of the translocation. Five cases of rhabdomyosarcoma were analysed by interphase FISH. The t(2;13)(q35;q14) was detected in all four alveolar tumours and was confirmed by cytogenetics in two cases, but was absent in one embryonal tumour. This sensitive detection method is applicable to minimal amounts of fresh or frozen tumour.
Gene fusions encoding chimaeric transcription factors in solid tumours.	Analysis of chromosomal alterations in human malignancies has revealed recurring genetic changes that are often closely associated with specific subtypes of tumours. Among solid tumours, cytogenetic analysis of a group of primitive sarcomas occurring principally in children and young adults has identified specific non-random chromosomal translocations associated with these malignancies. A number of the translocation breakpoints have now been cloned, revealing the in frame fusion of genes located at each partner breakpoint. The common theme is the expression by these hybrid genes of chimaeric proteins containing functional domains from each fusion partner. These domains confer transcriptional activation or repression, DNA binding specificity, or other novel protein-protein interactions. The net result appears to be the expression of chimaeric oncoproteins that function in transformation by dysregulating gene transcription.
Cytogenetic observations on translocations in species A of the Anopheles gambiae complex.	The ovarian polytene chromosomes of females of species A of the Anopheles gambiae complex, from colonies suspected of containing heterozygous translocations, were examined. In three lines, the presence of translocations was confirmed and the chromosomes involved in the interchanges identified. The usefulness of cytogenetic methods for the detection of translocations is discussed.
Analysis of the t(6;11)(q27;q23) in leukemia shows a consistent breakpoint in AF6 in three patients and in the ML-2 cell line.	The t(6;11)(q27;23) is one of the most common translocations observed in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The translocation breakpoint involves the MLL gene, which is the human homolog of the Drosophila trithorax gene, at 11q23 and the AF6 gene at 6q27. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using an MLL sense primer and an AF6 antisense primer detected the MLL/AF6 fusion cDNA from three leukemia patients with the t(6;11) [two AML and one T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)] and one cell line. The fusion point in the AF6 cDNA from these cases is identical, regardless of the leukemia phenotype. The ML-2 cell line, which was established from a patient with AML that developed after complete remission of T-cell lymphoma, has retained an 11q23-24 deletion from the lymphoma stage and has acquired the t(6;11) with development of AML. The ML-2 cells have no normal MLL gene on Southern blot analysis, which indicates that an intact MLL gene is not necessary for survival of leukemic cells.
Variant translocation t(6;10)(p21;q22) in pulmonary chondroid hamartoma.	Banding cytogenetics and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of a pulmonary chondroid hamartoma (PHC) showed the presence of a t(6;10)(p21;q22). A cytogenetically identical translocation has previously been found in another case of PHC, suggesting that it could represent a variant form of the standard t(6;14)(p21;q24).
Molecular genetics of B-cell lymphomas: a review.	Recent developments in the past decade such as the advent of recombinant DNA technology, discovery of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements and recognition of the association of specific cytogenetic abnormalities with certain lymphoma subtypes have led to a better understanding of lymphoproliferative disorders. As the vast majority (80%) of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are of the B-cell subtype, this is the focus of the article. By definition, tumours are clonal proliferations of a single, abnormal cell. Hence, B-lymphoid malignancy represents a monoclonal proliferation of B-lymphocytes. Immunophenotyping may be used to establish clonality for B-cell proliferations but may fail in some cases where surface antigens are not expressed or if the malignant clone is obscured by reactive lymphoid cells. Molecular methods are far more sensitive and do not require gene expression for detection, hence they are increasingly used for clonality assessment. Either Southern blot analysis or polymerase chain reaction can be used for this purpose. These techniques can also be used to detect specific cytogenetic abnormalities associated with certain lymphomas such as the bcl-2 gene rearrangement and follicular lymphoma. This is useful in the subtyping of lymphomas in cases where morphologic diagnosis is uncertain. Thus, with growing awareness and availability of molecular DNA analysis, these techniques are increasingly employed for the diagnosis of lymphomas as well as for the detection of minimal residual disease.
Breakage in the SNRPN locus in a balanced 46,XY,t(15;19) Prader-Willi syndrome patient.	A patient with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) was found to carry a de novo balanced reciprocal translocation, t(15;19)(q12;q13.41), which disrupted the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein N (SNRPN) locus. The translocation chromosome 15 was found to be paternal in origin. Uniparental disomy and abnormal DNA methylation were ruled out. The translocation breakpoint was found to have occurred between exon 0 (second exon) and 1 (third exon) of the SNRPN locus outside of the SmN open reading frame (ORF), which is intact. The transcriptional activities of ZNF127, IPW, PAR-1, and PAR-5 were detected with RT-PCR from fibroblasts of the patient, suggesting that these genes may not play a significant role in the PWS phenotype in this patient. Transcription from the first two exons and last seven exons of the SNRPN gene was also detected with RT-PCR; however, the complete mRNA (10 exons) was not detected. Thus, the PWS phenotype in the patient is likely to be the result of disruption of the SNRPN locus.
An unusual cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumor with t(11;22) translocation: pathological and molecular analysis.	Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) consistently demonstrate a reciprocal translocation, t(11;22)(q24;q12). This translocation has not been found in PNETs of the central nervous system including the cerebellar medulloblastoma. We report an unusual cerebellar PNET in a 4-year-old boy in which tumor cells were surrounded by pools of Alcian blue-positive material. Tumor cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. Electron microscopy revealed well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum, cell processes with intermediate filaments, microtubules, and dense core granules, and extracellular material reminiscent of mucopolysaccharide. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed an 11;22 translocation-specific PCR product. Clinically the tumor was a cerebellar PNET with leptomeningeal dissemination and there was no evidence to suggest that it was metastatic. Histopathology, however, was indicative of an unusual PNET that also manifested t(11;22) and was associated with an aggressive clinical course.
The importance of diagnostic cytogenetics on outcome in AML: analysis of 1,612 patients entered into the MRC AML 10 trial. The Medical Research Council Adult and Children's Leukaemia Working Parties.	Cytogenetics is considered one of the most valuable prognostic determinants in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, many studies on which this assertion is based were limited by relatively small sample sizes or varying treatment approach, leading to conflicting data regarding the prognostic implications of specific cytogenetic abnormalities. The Medical Research Council (MRC) AML 10 trial, which included children and adults up to 55 years of age, not only affords the opportunity to determine the independent prognostic significance of pretreatment cytogenetics in the context of large patient groups receiving comparable therapy, but also to address their impact on the outcome of subsequent transplantation procedures performed in first complete remission (CR). On the basis of response to induction treatment, relapse risk, and overall survival, three prognostic groups could be defined by cytogenetic abnormalities detected at presentation in comparison with the outcome of patients with normal karyotype. AML associated with t(8;21), t(15;17) or inv(16) predicted a relatively favorable outcome. Whereas in patients lacking these favorable changes, the presence of a complex karyotype, -5, del(5q), -7, or abnormalities of 3q defined a group with relatively poor prognosis. The remaining group of patients including those with 11q23 abnormalities, +8, +21, +22, del(9q), del(7q) or other miscellaneous structural or numerical defects not encompassed by the favorable or adverse risk groups were found to have an intermediate prognosis. The presence of additional cytogenetic abnormalities did not modify the outcome of patients with favorable cytogenetics. Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the three cytogenetically defined prognostic groups retained their predictive value in the context of secondary as well as de novo AML, within the pediatric age group and furthermore were found to be a key determinant of outcome from autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in first CR. This study highlights the importance of diagnostic cytogenetics as an independent prognostic factor in AML, providing the framework for a stratified treatment approach of this disease, which has been adopted in the current MRC AML 12 trial.
Genetic damage induced by methylglyoxal and methylglyoxal plus X-rays in Drosophila melanogaster germinal cells.	The effect of methylglyoxal (MG) and MG administered prior to X-irradiation was investigated in Drosophila melanogaster germinal cells using the sex-linked recessive lethal (s.l.r.l.), II-III autosomal translocation (AT) and X-chromosome nondisjunction (ND) tests. For the s.l.r.l. test the males were either injected with MG (0.5 M, 0.75 M or 1.7 M) or fed for 24 h (1 M) and two 24 h broods (A and B) were obtained. For the AT test the males were injected with MG 1.7 M and the same brooding scheme was followed. ND was tested in females fed on MG 1 M. The only effect observed after MG treatment was a significant increase on the yield of s.l.r.l. with MG 1.7 M. In the combined treatments MG was administered prior to irradiation with 20 Gy of X-rays and the induction of s.l.r.l. and AT was assessed. Pre-treatment with MG 0.75 M and 1.7 M enhanced the frequency of s.l.r.l. in cells sampled in brood B, consisting mainly of the rather hypoxic late spermatids. It is suggested that this radiosensitizing effect could be ascribed to a decrease in the level of glutathione due to the metabolization of MG.
Successful treatment with idarubicin in a pediatric case of t(8;21) acute myelogenous leukemia with additional chromosomal abnormalities at relapse]	A 9-year old boy was admitted to our hospital due to a relapse of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). A chromosomal analysis at the time of relapse revealed abnormalities in addition to 45, X,-Y, t(8;21) (q22;q22) when AML was first diagnosed. The patient was given granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) and aclarubicin (CAG therapy), but this treatment regimen was not effective. He was next treated with G-CSF (started 3 days prior to the administration of anticancer drugs), Ara-C, (200 mg/mm2 for 7 days), Etoposide (VP.16, 150 mg/mm2 for 5 days) and Idarubicin (8 mg/mm2 for 5 days) according to the modified Japan Cooperative Protocol ANLL 91 for children. Although his condition had been septic and he had experienced renal and respiratory failure, he achieved a complete remission after 140 days without additional therapy. The patient returned to a condition of health and received a bone marrow transplant from an unrelated donor. We concluded that this treatment regimen is effective for the relapse of AML in children.
Acute transformation of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with t(1;3) (p36;q21) abnormality]	A 66-year-old man was given a peripheral blood test because of low grade fever. Leukocytosis was detected, and the blood and bone marrow findings were consistent with those of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Three months later the hematological findings were: WBC 58,800/microliter (19% blastoid cells, 22% monocytes), Hb 9.0 g/dl, and a platelet count of 116 x 10(4)/microliters. A bone marrow examination revealed the presence of 52.6% blastoid cells and dysmegakaryocytopoiesis, including micromegakaryocytes. Serum and urinary lysozyme levels were elevated. Karyotypic analysis detected t(1; 3) (p36;q21), but not major bcr/abl mRNA. The patient was given a diagnosis of acute transformation of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Despite treatment, he died about 3 months later. t(1;3) is occasionally observed in cases of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and leukemia. Patients with t(1;3) often exhibit dysmegakaryocytopoiesis; furthermore, acute leukemia develops more readily in those who also have MDS. Cases of long-term survival are rare.
Chromosome translocation based on illegitimate recombination in human tumors.	Recurrent chromosome translocations in nonhematological tumors are restricted to specific subtypes, and their mechanism is currently unknown. Analysis of the sequence data of 113 interchromosomal junctions derived from 77 Ewing's tumors carrying the characteristic t(11;22) translocation indicate that, in this tumor, translocations are initiated independently on each chromosome in regions that lack site specific recombination signal. Local sequence duplications, deletions, and, most importantly, inversions that are diagnostic of DNA hairpin formation indicate that, at the breakpoint, single-stranded DNA ends are processed individually before interchromosomal joining. Taken together, these observations suggest that chromosome translocations in Ewing's tumors are mediated through a genuine illegitimate recombination mechanism.
Chromosome translocations and leukemias induced by inhibitors of topoisomerase II anticarcinogenic drugs]	The treatment of cancer with alkylating drugs or topoisomerase II inhibitors can be responsible for the development of myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myelogenous leukemia. Alkylating agents such as melphalan and cisplatinum mainly produce damages at chromosomes 5 and 7 whereas topoisomerase II inhibitors-induced lesions essentially affect chromosomes 11 and 21. Rearrangements of the MLL gene at band 11q23 are frequently observed in human de novo myeloid and lymphoid leukemia as well as in leukemia or myelodysplasia secondary to therapy with drugs targetting topoisomerase II such as the epipodophyllotoxins. A relationship between the treatment with etoposide on teniposide and the development of translocations of the MLL gene has been clearly evidenced. The potential molecular basis of the chromosomal rearrangements implicating topoisomerase II and its inhibitors are discussed. The chemical structure of the inhibitors, their mechanism of action and the genes targetted by these drugs are presented. DNA cleavages induced directly by topoisomerase II inhibitors or by the drug induced apoptotic cellular response are responsible for nonrandom chromosomal aberrations and contribute to leukemogenesis.
Establishment of a novel human myeloid leukaemia cell line (FKH-1) with t(6;9)(p23;q34) and the expression of dek-can chimaeric transcript.	Translocation t(6:9)(p23;q34), resulting in a dek-can gene fusion, is a recurrent chromosomal abnormality mainly associated with specific subtypes of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Patients with this type of chromosomal change are usually young and their prognosis is poor. The role of fusion protein generated from dek-can chimaeric transcript on the leukaemogenesis oft(6;9) AML or MDS is as yet unknown. We have established the first permanent cell line (FKH-1) with t(6;9). derived from the peripheral blood of a patient with t(6:9) AML transformed from Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-negative chronic myelocytic leukaemia (CML). The FKH-1 expressed myelomonocytic markers and dek-can chimaeric transcript. In the presence of 10 ng/ml recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), the cells doubled every 54 h and showed multilineage myeloid differentiation, resulting in heterogenous morphologies such as macrophages, basophils, eosinophils and neutrophils. Thus, this cell line may be derived from a pluripotent myeloid stem cell and should be a useful tool for biomolecular studies on the pathogenesis of t(6;9) myeloid malignancies which have rarely been investigated because of the lack of continuously proliferating cells.
Establishment and characterization of a mantle cell lymphoma cell line.	A mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cell line (JeKo-1) was established from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of a patient with a large cell variant of MCL showing leukaemic conversion. JeKo-1 cells were Epstein-Barr virus negative and showed a B-cell phenotype with IgM+, IgD+, CD3-, CD5+, CD10-, CD19+, CD20+ and CD23-; they overexpressed cyclin D1, Bcl-2, c-Myc and Rb proteins. Bcl-1/J(H) gene rearrangement was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction, although karyotypic analysis showed 40/41 chromosomes devoid of apparent t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation. JeKo-1 cells were highly tumourigenic in SCID mice.
Utility of microdissection and polymerase chain reaction for the detection of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement and translocation in primary intraocular lymphoma.	Primary intraocular lymphoma, a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, is a primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL). Diagnosis is usually made by identifying malignant, large B lymphocytes in the vitreous, eye, brain, and cerebral spinal fluid; however, these cells are few, friable, and difficult to recognize. Recently, clonal heavy chain immunoglobulin (IgH) gene rearrangement and bcl-2 gene translocation have been reported in systemic B-cell lymphoma and are used for the detection of malignant cells and in making a diagnosis. The authors investigated the molecular changes in three eyes and a chorioretinal biopsy specimen of four patients with PCNSL.
The male-determining activity on the Y chromosome of the housefly (Musca domestica L.) consists of separable elements.	In the common housefly, the presence or absence of a male-determining factor, M, is responsible for sex determination. In different strains, M has been found on the Y, on the X, or on any of the five autosomes. By analyzing a Y-autosomal translocation and a ring-shaped, truncated Y chromosome, we could show that M on the Y consists of at least two regions with M activity: One of them can be assigned to the short arm of the Y chromosome (MYS), which is largely C-banding negative, the other region lies on the C-banding positive long arm of the Y, including the centromeric part (MYL). Each region alone behaves as a hypomorphic M factor, causing many carriers to develop as intersexes of the mosaic type instead of as males. When introduced into the female germ line by transplantation of progenitor germ cells (pole cells), the MYS shows an almost complete maternal effect that predetermines 96% of the genotypic female (NoM) animals to develop as males. In contrast, the MYL has largely lost its maternal effect, and most of the NoM animals develop as females. Increasing the amount of product made by either of the two hypomorphic M factors (by combining the MYS and MYL or two MYS) leads to complete male development in almost every case. We thus assume that the Y chromosome carries at least two copies of M, and that these are functionally equivalent.
3-Bromoacetylamino benzoylurea (3-BAABU), a new antimicrotubule cancericidal agent applied in cytogenetic analysis in hematology.	3-Bromoacetylamino benzoylurea (3-BAABU) is a newly synthesized antimicrotubule cancericidal compound. In the present study, we investigated the possibility of using 3-BAABU as a mitotic blocking agent for hematologic karyotyping. Treatment with 3-BAABU caused scattering of metaphase chromosomes throughout the cytoplasm both in phytohemagglutinine (PHA)-stimulated human lymphocytes and in human leukemic cells. Kinetic showed a rapid uptake of 3-BAABU by treated cells and irreversibility of its effect. Using 3-BAABU in routine procedure, a karyotype of lymphocytes from a normal male was 46, XY, with normal structure and CEM leukemic line was 85, XX, in a representative spread with abnormalities similar to reports using other blocking agents. Using 3-BAABU in spectral karyotyping, details of translocations in CEM leukemic cells were readily detected in several chromosomes, such as 7 [t(7;11)], 8 [t(8;9)], 9 [t(8;9) & t(9;19)], 11 [t(7;11)], 16 [t(16;18;20)] and 20 [t(1;20)]. 3-BAABU displayed two important characters in cytogenetics, 1) it caused dispersion of chromosomes, avoiding chance of overlap; 2) compared to the conventional mitotic blocking agent, vinblastine sulfate, 3-BAABU exhibited much gentle effect on chromosomes, thus providing more flexibility in time to perform karyotyping.
A cell-free translation-translocation system reconstituted with subcellular fractions from the wall-less variant fz;sg;os-1V of Neurospora crassa.	A translation-translocation system reconstituted with subcellular fractions from the wall-less variant fz;sg;os-1V of Neurospora crassa reproduces in vitro translocation and processing of a secretory protein. The translation extract was isolated from the wall-less variant by gently lysing cells by a freeze-thaw procedure. This method yielded more extract then the method developed previously (R. Addison, J. Biol. Chem. 262: 17031, 1987) as well as reducing microsomal contamination. The microsomal fraction was isolated from lysed cells using a series of discontinuous sucrose gradients. The resultant microsomes were less inhibitory to translation of various transcripts and consisted of a more homogenous mixture of vesicles then microsomes prepared previously. Polyclonal antibodies directed against a polypeptide of approximately 75 kDa from the microsomes were used in indirect-immunofluorescence microscopy. The resultant fluorescent pattern shows a network of tubulo-reticular structures in a juxtanuclear region, which is the pattern expected of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Use of the polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing analysis to detect cells with the t(14;18) in autologous bone marrow from patients with follicular lymphoma, before and after in vitro treatment.	Between August 1993 and February 1994, 25 patients with follicular or transformed follicular lymphoma had bone marrow harvested at St Bartholomew's Hospital (SBH) with a view to proceeding to high-dose treatment comprising: cyclophosphamide 60 mg/kg x 2 and total body irradiation, 200 cGy x 6, supported by autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT). The marrow mononuclear cell fraction was treated in vitro with four anti-B cell antibodies and baby rabbit complement. The aim of this study was to determine whether in vitro treatment of the marrow could remove morphologically undetectable lymphoma cells. PCR analysis for the t(14;18) was used to determine the presence or absence of lymphoma. At the time of the bone marrow harvest, 21/25 bone marrow samples were positive for the t(14;18), in 15/22 patients, the rearrangement could also be demonstrated in peripheral blood. After in vitro treatment, 18/21 samples (86%) remained 'PCR positive'. Sequence analysis of the t(14;18) PCR products was performed on the latter and on lymph node biopsy material taken at diagnosis from 12 patients. The same t(14;18) sequences were found in the bone marrow harvest samples as in the patients' original biopsies. These results suggest that this form of in vitro treatment does not completely eradicate the t(14;18) bearing clone. New and better methods need to be developed.
The microsatellite instability and loss of heterozygosity in chromosome translocation breakpoint in leukemia]	To investigate the microsatellite instability (MSI) and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) near the chromosome translocation breakpoints of various types of leukemia.
Arsenic and retinoic acid, toward targeted treatments of acute promyelocytic anemia?]	Acute promyelocytic leukaemia is a key model system in cancer biology. Its exquisite sensitivity to retinoic acid constitutes the first example of differentiation therapy. The PML/RAR alpha fusion protein generated by the t(34, 35) translocation is the molecular basis of transformation. PML/RAR alpha induces transformation most likely through a dominant negative interference with the function of nuclear receptors leading to a differentiation block. The fusion protein also delocalises PML and other nuclear body antigens and this alteration of nuclear protein traffic seems to play a role in growth control and apoptosis. The clinical response of this disease to retinoids and arsenic trioxide, both of which induce the degradation of the fusion protein, constitute the first example of a therapy directly targeted to a specific genetic lesion in a human cancer.
Molecular characterization and delineation of subtle deletions in de novo "balanced" chromosomal rearrangements.	To test the hypothesis that the phenotypic abnormalities seen in cases with apparently balanced chromosomal rearrangements are the result of the presence of cryptic deletions or duplications of chromosomal material near the breakpoints, we analyzed three cases with apparently balanced chromosomal rearrangements and phenotypic abnormalities. We characterized the breakpoints in these cases by using microsatellite analysis by polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of yeast artificial chromosome clones selected from the breakpoint regions. Molecular characterization of the translocation breakpoint in patient 1 [46,XY,t(2;6)(p22.2;q23.1)] showed the presence of a 4- to 6-Mb cryptic deletion between markers D6S412 and D6S1705 near the 6q23.1 breakpoint. Molecular characterization of the proximal inversion 7q22.1 breakpoint in patient 2 [46,XY,inv(7)(q22.1q32.1)] revealed the presence of a 4-Mb cryptic deletion between D7S651 and D7S515 markers. No deletion or duplication of chromosomal material was found near the breakpoints in patient 3 [46,XX,t(2;6)(q33.1;p12.2)]. Our study suggests that a systematic molecular study of breakpoints should be carried out in cases with apparently balanced chromosomal rearrangements and phenotypic abnormalities, because cryptic deletions near the breakpoints may explain the phenotypic abnormalities in these cases.
Molecular cloning of the chromosomal breakpoint in the LIS1 gene of a patient with isolated lissencephaly and balanced t(8;17).	Karyotypic analysis of a patient exhibiting a phenotype of isolated lissencephaly, and of her parents, revealed a de novo balanced translocation, t(8;17)(p11.2; p13.3). Since the lissencephaly (LIS1) gene was known to be located on 17p13.3, we investigated whether the translocation might involve this gene. We performed Southern analysis using cosmid clones that contained genomic sequences corresponding to LIS1, and found that the breakpoint was located within intron 1. As sequence analysis of the parental chromosomes in the vicinity of the breakpoint identified no additional putative transcripts, haploinsufficiency of the LIS1 gene is likely to be solely responsible for the patient's lissencephaly. Characterization of both breakpoints indicated a possible involvement of repetitive sequences in the recombigenic process that led to the translocation.
Five new cases of reciprocal translocation in the domestic pig.	Five new cases of reciprocal translocation in the domestic pig are described. Three of them, rep(3;5)(p1.3;q2.3), rep(6;13)(p1.5;q4.1) and rep(13;17)(q4.1;q1.1) were found in boars with decreased litter size. The remaining two were identified in animals karyotyped before reproduction: a young boar, rep(4;6)(q2.1;q2.8), and a gilt, rep(2;14)(q1.3;q2.7). A parental origin by inheritance of the translocations was established in cases 1, 4, and 5. A decrease in prolificacy of 43% and 34% was estimated in cases 1 and 3, respectively.
An unusual translocation between 12tel and 14q11 in a large kindred.	In one couple investigated because of recurrent abortions, the female was found to have an unusual translocation between the long arm of the telomeric region of chromosome 12 and the long arm of the chromosome 14 at band q11. We studied ten additional members of the family who were under the risk of the same chromosomal rearrangement, and four of them were found to be carriers. The diagnosis of this translocation was determined using different banding techniques and FISH. The karyotype was found to be 45,XX,t(12;14)(qtel;q11).
Transcription sites are not correlated with chromosome territories in wheat nuclei.	We have determined the relationship between overall nuclear architecture, chromosome territories, and transcription sites within the nucleus, using three-dimensional confocal microscopy of well preserved tissue sections of wheat roots. Chromosome territories were visualized by GISH using rye genomic probe in wheat/rye translocation and addition lines. The chromosomes appeared as elongated regions and showed a clear centromere-telomere polarization, with the two visualized chromosomes lying approximately parallel to one another across the nucleus. Labeling with probes to telomeres and centromeres confirmed a striking Rabl configuration in all cells, with a clear clustering of the centromeres, and cell files often maintained a common polarity through several division cycles. Transcription sites were detected by BrUTP incorporation in unfixed tissue sections and revealed a pattern of numerous foci uniformly distributed throughout the nucleoplasm, as well as more intensely labeled foci in the nucleoli. It has been suggested that the gene-rich regions in wheat chromosomes are clustered towards the telomeres. However, we found no indication of a difference in concentration of transcription sites between telomere and centromere poles of the nucleus. Neither could we detect any evidence that the transcription sites were preferentially localized with respect to the chromosome territorial boundaries.
CBFA2(AML1) translocations with novel partner chromosomes in myeloid leukemias: association with prior therapy.	CBFA2(AML1) has emerged as a gene critical in hematopoiesis; its protein product forms the DNA-binding subunit of the heterodimeric core-binding factor (CBF) that binds to the transcriptional regulatory regions of genes, some of which are active specifically in hematopoiesis. CBFA2 forms a fusion gene with ETO and MDS1/EVI1 in translocations in myeloid leukemia and with ETV6(TEL) in the t(12;21) common in childhood pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We have analyzed samples from 30 leukemia patients who had chromosome rearrangements involving 21q22 by using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Our analysis showed that 7 of them involved CBFA2 and new translocation partners. Two patients had a t(17;21)(q11.2;q22), whereas the other 5 had translocations involving 1p36, 5q13, 12q24, 14q22, or 15q22. Five of these novel breakpoints in CBFA2 occurred in intron 6; this same intron is involved in the t(3;21). One breakpoint mapped to the t(8;21) breakpoint region in intron 5, and 1 mapped 5' to that region. All 7 CBFA2 rearrangements resulted from balanced translocations. All 7 patients had myeloid disorders (acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome); 2 were de novo and 5 had treatment histories that included topoisomerase II targeting agents. The association of therapy-related disorders with translocations involving CBFA2 was significant by Fisher's exact test (P < .003). These results provide further evidence that this region of CBFA2 is susceptible to breakage in cells exposed to topoisomerase II inhibitors.
Position effect of translocations involving the inactive X chromosome: physical linkage to XIC/XIST does not lead to long-range de novo inactivation in human differentiated cells.	Given the reported long-range cis-inactivating effect of the XIST gene in early embryonic development and the lack of requirement of X-chromosome-specific elements for propagating the inactive state, there exists the possibility of cis inactivation of autosomal material after de novo translocation to an inactive X chromosome (Xi) in differentiated cells. We have analyzed de novo radiation-induced translocations between the Xi and autosomes to study the maintenance and spreading of X-chromosome inactivation (X inactivation) in relation to the position of the X-inactivation center (XIC)/XIST in differentiated cells. Autosome/Xi translocations were detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The activation status of the chromosomes involved in the translocation was determined by simultaneous immunocytogenetic studies using antibodies against either BrdU incorporated at late S phase or acetylated histone H4. The position of XIC/XIST in the reciprocal products of the translocation was determined by XIST-specific FISH and computer enhancement. In other experiments, the Xq13 region carrying XIC/XIST was localized by computer enhancement of the DAPI banding pattern. Our study in differentiated cells provides a visual demonstration that physical separation from XIC/XIST does not result in reactivation of inactive X-chromosome material and that X inactivation is not spread to the translocated autosomes irrespective of the position of XIC/XIST. This observation suggests that physical linkage to XIC/XIST does not lead to de novo inactivation of autosomal material.
Clinical study of 9-cis retinoic acid (LGD1057) in acute promyelocytic leukemia.	The use of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) for remission induction markedly increases survival of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) compared to patients treated solely with cytotoxic chemotherapy. However, clinical resistance to this agent develops rapidly, which has been associated with a progressive decline in plasma drug concentrations. Previous studies suggested that 9-cis RA, a retinoid receptor 'pan agonist' did not induce its own catabolism to the same extent as all-trans RA. Therefore, we conducted a dose-ranging study of this compound in patients with both relapsed and newly diagnosed APL. We treated 18 patients with morphologically diagnosed APL (13 relapsed, five newly diagnosed). The daily dose of 9-cis RA ranged from 30 to 230 mg/m2/day given as a single oral dose. Four of 12 (33%) relapsed patients (three of whom were previously treated with all-trans RA) and four of five (80%) newly diagnosed patients achieved complete remission. The sole failure in the newly diagnosed group died early from an intracranial hemorrhage. One other patient with t(9;12) translocation had substantial hematologic improvement. The drug was generally well tolerated; headache and dry skin were the most common adverse reactions. Three patients were treated with corticosteroids for signs of incipient 'RA syndrome.' These preliminary data suggest that 9-cis RA is an effective agent for remission induction and deserves further investigation in patients with retinoid-sensitive APL.
Resistance of t(4;11) (MLL-AF4 fusion gene) leukemias to stress-induced cell death: possible mechanism for extensive extramedullary accumulation of cells and poor prognosis.	Acute leukemias of the t(4;11) (MLL-AF4 fusion gene) type frequently have high white blood counts and extramedullary disease in multiple organs. In the present study we evaluated the hypotheses that this extensive disease is the result of extramedullary survival of leukemia cells due to resistance to stress-induced cell death. Leukemias with t(4;11)(MLL-AF4) were found to be resistant to the cell death that results from serum deprivation in vitro when compared with B lineage acute leukemias without t(4;11)(MLL-AF4). Cells with t(4;11)(MLL-AF4) did not have increased doubling time or increased numbers of cells in cycle. These results suggest that the alteration in cellular homeostasis in these leukemias is due to abnormalities of cellular destruction rather than cellular proliferation when compared to other leukemias. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that death of non-t(4;11) leukemias occurs in the microenvironment outside of the bone marrow as a result of deficient cellular and humoral growth factors. Resistance to death signals in t(4;11) leukemias results in extensive accumulation of leukemia cells in extramedullary sites and likely contributes to the poor prognosis of these leukemias.
Structure of Bcl-1 and IgH-CDR3 rearrangements as clonal markers in mantle cell lymphomas.	Mantle cell lymphoma represent a clinicopathologically distinct entity of malignant non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and are characterized by a specific chromosomal translocation t(11;14)(q13;q32) involving the cyclin D1 gene also designated as bcl-1/PRAD1 gene on chromosome 11 and the heavy chain immunoglobulin joining region on chromosome 14. We have established a PCR method to amplify t(11;14) junctional sequences in DNA from fresh frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue by bcl-1-specific primers in combination with a consensus immunoglobulin JH primer. A total of 65 cases histologically classified as mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) were analyzed for the presence of a t(11;14) translocation and monoclonal IgH-CDR3 rearrangements. From 26 patients with classical MCL and three cases with the anaplastic variant of MCL fresh frozen biopsy material was available for DNA extraction. We detected a bcl-1/JH rearrangement in 12 out of 29 samples (41%). In 36 cases paraffin-embedded lymph node tissue was the only source of DNA. In this material we found a bcl-1/JH rearrangement in six out of 31 samples with intact DNA (20%). To confirm the specificity of the PCR and to determine the bcl-1/JH junctional region sequences as clone-specific marker in individual patients we characterized the junctional DNA sequences by direct PCR sequencing in 16 cases. Interestingly we found that six bcl-1/JH junctions harbored DH segments in their N regions indicating that bcl-1/JH rearrangements can occur in a later stage of B cell ontogeny during which the complete VH to DH-JH joining or VH-replacement takes place. To investigate the suitability of IgH-CDR3 as sensitive molecular marker for those MCL patients in which a t(11;14) translocation can not easily be amplified, we additionally analysed 60 cases for the presence of monoclonally rearranged IgH genes by IgH-CDR3-PCR. A monoclonal IgH-CDR3 PCR product could be identified in 24 out of 29 fresh frozen samples (79%) whereas only 11 out of 31 samples (36%) with paraffin-derived DNA were positive. We demonstrate that automated fluorescence detection of monoclonal IgH-CDR3 PCR products allows the rapid and sensitive monitoring of minimal residual disease also in cases that lack a PCR amplifiable t(11;14) translocation. In combination with allele-specific primers the procedure may improve current experimental approaches for detection of occult MCL cells at initial staging and residual disease during and after therapy.
NUP98-HOXD13 gene fusion in therapy-related acute myelogenous leukemia.	A novel chromosomal translocation, t(2;11)(q31;p15), was identified in a patient with therapy-related acute myelogenous leukemia (t-AML). Fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments mapped the breakpoint near NUP98; Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the nucleoporin gene NUP98 was disrupted by this translocation. We used rapid amplification of cDNA ends to identify a chimeric mRNA. An in-frame, chimeric mRNA that fused NUP98 sequences to the homeobox gene HOXD13 was cloned; the predicted fusion protein contains both the GLFG repeats from NUP98 as well as the homeodomain from HOXD13. The NUP98-HOXD13 fusion is structurally similar to the NUP98-HOXA9 fusion previously identified in patients with AML, leading to the speculation that NUP98-homeobox gene fusions may be oncogenic. Moreover, this report, along with a recent study that demonstrated NUP98-DDX10 fusions in patients with t-AML, raises the possibility that NUP98 may be a previously unsuspected target for chromosomal translocations in patients with t-AML.
Clinical, morphological, cytogenetic and molecular aspects of a series of Ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemias.	Clinical, morphological, cytogenetic and molecular (fluorescence in situ hybridization and RT-PCR) data were analyzed in twelve Philadelphia negative chronic myeloid leukemias (Ph-negative CMLs). Four patients were classified as BCR-positive. A standard b2a2 or b3a2 transcript was found, and the BCR-ABL hybrid gene was located on the 22q11 band in three cases and on the 1p35 band in one case with a t(1;9)(p35;q34). All were classified as typical chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL) according to the French-American-British (FAB) morphological guidelines. Responses to therapy were evaluated by FISH in the four patients, and proved to be poorer than in Ph-positive CMLs. Eight BCR-negative patients were identified. They could be characterized by an older age, a less proliferative form of disease than the BCR-positive patients, and a frequent (six out of eight) abnormal karyotype. The FAB classification identified four CGLs and four atypical CMLs (aCML). A normal karyotype was more frequent in the patients classified as CGL whereas all the aCMLs had a chromosomal abnormality. Three patients had chromatin clumping and this morphologic feature was associated with trisomy 8 in two. No correlation between the cytogenetic, morphologic and the clinical data were found. Five patients had poor tolerance to therapy with a frequent occurrence of bone marrow failure and hemorragic syndrome, whereas three patients responded to a standard treatment of CML. Our study reinforces previous data on Ph-negative BCR-positive CMLs and emphasizes the difficulty in correlating clinical, morphologic, cytogenetic data in Ph-negative BCR-negative CMLs. However, our data also argue in favor of the existence of true Ph-negative BCR-negative CMLs and suggest that some of them can respond to a standard treatment of CML.
Biological dosimetry of beta-ray exposure from tritium using chromosome translocations in human lymphocytes analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization.	Radiation exposures from tritium make up a substantial fraction of the occupational and accidental radiation exposures associated with the nuclear power industry. Tritiated water, the most abundant form of tritium, is of particular interest because it is readily taken up by human cells and its irradiation of the cells is spread over a period of days. To approximate the prolonged exposure and the conditions that the cells of an individual would experience in vivo, we irradiated human lymphocytes with tritiated water for 48 h in a 1:1 blood:medium mix. For estimation of the tritium beta-ray dose, a cellular water content of 0.78, based on measurements of human lymphoblastoid cells in culture medium, was used. A modified dose calculation formula was developed for the radiation exposure conditions. A total of 48,014 metaphases (14,482 in irradiated samples and 33,532 in control, unirradiated samples) in human lymphocytes cultured for 72 h after exposure were analyzed for chromosome translocations using fluorescence in situ hybridization. The linear slope (alpha coefficient) of the dose-response curve was measured to be (3.93+/-0.42) x 10(-2) and (5.26+/-0.48) x 10(-2) translocations per cell per gray for complete translocations (tc) and complete translocations plus incomplete translocations [ti(Ab)], respectively, when the data were fitted to a linear model using a weighted least-squares method. The alpha coefficient for tc is significantly lower than that for conventionally measured dicentrics after tritium beta irradiation, but the alpha coefficient for tc + ti(Ab) does not differ significantly from that for dicentrics. This is in agreement with theoretical considerations. The importance of scoring criteria is stressed. The frequency of tc + ti(Ab) is proposed to be a reliable biodosimeter for tritium exposures, and its practical use in a dose reconstruction is presented.
Transforming activity of the chimeric sequence formed by the fusion of collagen gene COL1A1 and the platelet derived growth factor b-chain gene in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.	As a consequence of a reciprocal translocation t(17;22)(q22;q13) and of supernumerary ring chromosomes derived from the t(17;22), a fusion between the platelet-derived growth factor b-chain (PDGF, c-sis proto-oncogene) and the collagen type 1A1 (COL1A1) genes has been recently described in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DP), an infiltrating skin tumor (Simon et al., 1997). Although PDGFB has been implicated in transforming processes via autocrine and paracrine pathways, by the activation of the cognate receptor, no direct evidence of its involvement in neoplastic transformation of human tumours has been so far provided. In this report, we have tested the DNA from four DPs in the classical DNA transfection assay onto NIH3T3 fibroblast cell line. All the DNAs induced the formation of transformed foci in the transfected cultures whose derived cell lines were shown to contain a fused sequence comprising the human COL1A1 and PDGF genes. The relative breakpoint regions have been sequenced revealing that this gene fusion deleted exon 1 of PDGF and released the growth factor from its normal regulation. All the biochemical and biological assays were consistent with the model of an autocrine mechanism for NIH3T3 transformation by the human rearranged PDGFB gene involving the activation of the endogenous PDGF receptor.
Expression of reciprocal fusion transcripts of the HMGIC and LPP genes in parosteal lipoma.	Parosteal lipomas are rare benign neoplasms of adipose tissue that exhibit a contiguous relationship with the periosteum. These lipomas of the bone share some histopathologic features with their commonly occurring soft tissue counterparts. The latter are well-characterized cytogenetically, primarily by rearrangements involving chromosome region 12q13-q15. In particular, translocations involving 12q13-q15 are prominent, with chromosomal region 3q27-q28 as the most frequent translocation partner. Recently, we established that the genes HMGIC at 12q15 and LPP at 3q27-28 are affected by the 3;12-translocation and demonstrated that, as a direct result, HMGIC/LPP and LPP/HMGIC fusion transcripts are expressed in soft tissue lipomas. In this study, cytogenetic and molecular analyses revealed similar findings in a parosteal lipoma. Specifically, a t(3;12)(q28;q14) was detected cytogenetically in a parosteal lipoma from a 51-year-old female and subsequently confirmed by FISH utilizing a chromosome 3 breakpoint spanning YAC probe and chromosome 12 breakpoint flanking cosmid probes. RT-PCR analysis showed expression of HMGIC/LPP and LPP/HMGIC fusion transcripts in this parosteal lipoma; nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that these transcripts are identical to those expressed in soft tissue lipomas characterized by a 3;12-translocation. These findings lend further support to a common histopathogenesis between lipomas of soft tissue and parosteal origin.
Translocation (11;14)(q13;q32) and overexpression of cyclin D1 protein in a CD23-positive low-grade B-cell neoplasm.	We describe a case of low-grade B-cell neoplasm with features overlapping between B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). The patient presented with a 10-year history of stable CLL without any treatment. The peripheral-blood picture was consistent with atypical mixed CLL (French-American-British criteria), whereas the lymph-node histology was more consistent with MCL. Neoplastic cells were strongly positive for surface immunoglobulin M, kappa, CD5, CD20, CD23, and cyclin D1. Expression of CD11c was weak. Translocation (11;14) and der(10)t(10;?)(p11;?) were the primary cytogenetic changes observed in both peripheral blood (47%) and lymph node (7%). Trisomy 12 was absent. Deletion 6q21 and rearrangements involving 1p/q, consistently associated with progression in lymphomas, also were noted in the peripheral blood but were nonclonal. The present case and similar cases with features overlapping between CLL and MCL most likely represent hybrids. In cases with features of typical CLL, t(11;14) is probably associated with gradual progression and may precede clinical and histologic transformation.
Cytogenetic studies in patients from India with T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Cytogenetic analysis was performed in 30 patients with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (11 adults, 19 children) at initial presentation and analysis was also repeated in clinical and hematological remission in 15 patients. At initial presentation, chromosomal abnormalities were detected in 27 cases (90%) and hypodiploidy was detected in 19 patients (63.3%), followed by pseudodiploidy in six patients (20%) and hyperdiploidy in two patients (6.6%). Other karyotypic abnormalities detected were deletion 6q (40%), deletion 11 q (16.6%), deletion 7q (10%), abnormalities of chromosome 9 in (13.3%) and translocation t(11;14)(p13;q11) in 6.6% and der(12)t(12;?)(p13;?) in (3.3%). In complete remission, nine out of 15 cases (60%) showed chromosomal aberrations. Original abnormalities were detected in two cases (13.3%) and new abnormalities were detected in seven cases (46.6%).
Translocation (1;22) in refractory anemia and the prognostic significance of karyotypic abnormalities in refractory anemia.	The most common cytogenetic abnormalities associated with myelodysplastic syndromes are deletions of chromosomes 5 and 7 and trisomy 8. Reciprocal translocation is relatively uncommon in refractory anemia. We describe a case of refractory anemia associated with trisomy 8 and a derivative chromosome 22 resulting from t(1;22)(q11;q11.2). The diseases and the role of the various genes that are mapped to these breakpoints are discussed. The prognostic significance of karyotypic abnormalities in refractory anemia are reviewed.
A novel translocation (1;2)(p34;p21-22) in acute myelomonoblastic leukemia.	A novel and as yet unrecorded translocation, (1;2)(p34;p21-22), detected in a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is reported. The leukemia--in this case, AML-M4--showed a rapidly progressive fatal course despite an early transient response to aggressive chemotherapy. In this patient, the leukemic cells showed a novel balanced translocation, (1;2)(p34;p21-22), in most of the metaphases at the time of diagnosis and during subsequent relapse. Interferon-inducible double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (ds RNA-PK) is located in the chromosome region, 2p21-22, that was involved in the translocation in this case. The possible role of ds RNA-PK in leukemogenesis is briefly mentioned.
Importance of cytogenetic markers for multiple primary carcinomas in colorectal cancer: chromosome 17 and p53 locus translocation.	The incidence of non-familial multiple primary cancer in colorectal cancer patients has increased in recent years in Japan. To clarify the characteristic genetic aberrations in such multiple cancers, we examined structural chromosomal aberrations by fluorescence in situ hybridization, using chromosome 17-specific and p53 cosmid DNA probes. We established short-term cultures of 78 surgical specimens and were able to obtain observable metaphase spreads in 23 single colorectal cancer specimens and in 6 colorectal cancer specimens from patients with double primary cancers. The frequency of chromosome 17 and/or p53 locus translocation was significantly greater in tumors with double cancer than in single colorectal cancers (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). These aberrations in double cancers frequently appeared even at an early Dukes' stage (A and B) of colorectal carcinoma. Our results suggest that translocation of chromosome 17 and the p53 locus may be specific genetic events probably associated with carcinogenesis of multiple primary cancers in colorectal cancer.
Cloning the cDNA for a new human zinc finger protein defines a group of closely related Krppel-like transcription factors.	We have identified a novel zinc finger protein that has been named ubiquitous Krppel-like factor (UKLF) based on structural considerations and the pattern of gene expression. UKLF was isolated by the polymerase chain reaction approach using degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to the DNA-binding domain of erythroid Krppel-like factor (EKLF) and cDNA prepared from human vascular endothelial cells. The carboxyl-terminal portion of UKLF contains three zinc fingers of the Cys2-His2 type and binds in vitro to the CACCC motif of the beta-globin promoter and to the Sp1 recognition sequence. The amino-terminal portion of UKLF consists of a hydrophobic region rich in serines and a negatively charged segment with several glutamic acid residues. The first 47 amino acids of the acidic region are nearly identical to the amino-terminal portion of another Krppel-like factor, the so-called core promoter-binding protein (CPBP) or Zf9. Like CPBP/Zf9, UKLF can function as a transcription activator in co-transfection assays. However, this activity is lost when the highly conserved amino-terminal segment is deleted. These findings indicate that UKLF and CPBP/Zf9 represent a distinct subgroup of closely related Krppel-like activators of transcription. Mapping of the UKLF gene to chromosome 2 suggested that UKLF and CPBP/Zf9 translocated to different chromosomes following duplication from an ancestral gene.
Localization by FISH of centric fission breakpoints in a de novo trisomy 9p patient with i(9p) and t(9q;11p).	Localization by FISH of centric fission breakpoints in a de novo trisomy 9p patient with i(9p) and t(9q;11p): In this report we present a 38 year-old, severely mentally retarded female with 9p trisomy due to isochromosome 9p, i(9p), formation and translocation of the long arm of the rearranged chromosome 9 onto the telomere region of the short arm of chromosome 11: karyotype: 46, XX, -9, -11, +i(9p), +der(11) t(9;11) (q12;p15.5). C-banding showed that the i(9p) was monocentric and that der(11) had an additional C-band at the t(9q;11p) junction. The centric rearrangements were further identified by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) using a panel of chromosome 9 (peri)centric DNA probes. Analysis with probe pG-Xbal 1/340 (locus D4Z1), detecting the satellite subfamily at the centromeres of chromosomes 4 and 9, revealed small signals at the primary constriction of i(9p) but no signals at the breakpoint junction of the t(9q;11p). Further analysis using respectively chromosome 9 classical satellite probe (locus D9Z1), that consists of beta satellite sequences and pHuR98 probe (locus D9Z3) which detects satellite 3 DNA, localized to the 9qh region, both revealed translocation of these DNA sequences to the breakpoint of the t(9;11) junction. By using a 3'biotinylated oligonucleotide (TTAGGG)7 probe, no evidence was found for the presence of interstitial telomeric repeats at the t(9q;11p) breakpoint junction indicating that this derivative chromosome is the result of a reciprocal translocation with loss of telomeric regions including terminal 11p15.5-->pter. Our results provide evidence that the misdivision process that occurs on the chromosome 9 centric region results either from breakage in the alphoid DNA arrays or at the junction between alphoid and DNA regions.
Genetic alterations in the region of the p53 gene on human chromosome 17 in colorectal cancer]	Most colorectal tumors are characterized, among other genetic alterations, by allele loss of the genes located on the short arm of chromosome 17 (17p13.1), including the p53 suppressor gene. In ovarian and mammary-gland tumors, deletions of another candidate tumor-suppressor gene, located in the 17p13.3 chromosome region, were observed. We analyzed allele losses in the loci of the short arm of chromosome 17 (YNZ22, MCT35.1, and the p53 gene) in colorectal-cancer patients from the former Soviet Union. Tumors with cytogenetic alterations in 17p and/or with a detected loss of heterozygosity at the YNZ22 (D17S30) locus were examined for allele losses in the p53 gene using two polymorphic sites. Different methods revealed alterations on 17p in 24 (48%) out of 50 patients with colorectal carcinomas. In all tumors with an allele loss of the YNZ22 marker (15 out of 44 informative cases), which was detected by means of PCR, allele loss of the p53 gene was found (12 out of 15 informative cases). In 5 out of 13 tumors with cytogenetic alterations in 17p, allele loss of the p53 gene was found, with the YNZ22 marker being unaffected. In one of these tumors, the i(17q) marker was found, and in the remaining four tumors, 17p translocations were detected. In 4 out of 5 tumors with translocations affecting 17p, the t(17;20)(q21;p12) translocation was detected. The informativeness of the screening for 17p translocations, using PCR for the YNZ22 locus, and the reasons for discrepancy between the data of PCR and cytogenetic analyses are discussed.
Molecular genetics of human leukemia.	Human leukemias are clonal hemopathies generally characterized by acquired somatic mutations, including translocations, deletions, and insertions. Ten years ago, the first leukemia-related chromosomal translocation, the Philadelphia chromosome, was cloned and fully characterized at the molecular level. Since then, a plethora of chromosomal translocations and mutations has been associated with leukemogenesis. Analysis and comparison of this bewildering array of genetic changes have helped identify shared paradigms and themes in the mechanisms of transformation of hematopoietic cells. This information will guide the development of improved therapies that take into account the cytogenetic and molecular characteristics of human leukemias. This review summarizes the current knowledge of the nature of the genetic changes associated with leukemogenesis and discusses their consequences at the molecular and cellular levels.
Three cases of mosaicism for balanced reciprocal translocations.	Mosaicism for a balanced reciprocal translocation (BRTM) is rare. As far as we know only 26 cases of BRTM, demonstrated in lymphocyte cultures, have been described, five of which had an abnormal phenotype. Prenatally three confirmed cases with a normal phenotypic outcome have been described. Here we present three further cases of BRTM in lymphocyte cultures. The first was detected during a family study, the second after an abnormal karyotype in chorionic villus sampling, and the third because of a history of stillborn children. All three carriers have normal phenotypes. An inventory of the BRTM cases reported so far is made.
Cytogenetic changes in benign proliferative and nonproliferative lesions of the breast.	Cytogenetic analysis of short-term cultures from 69 cases of fibrocystic breast changes and 10 samples of normal mammary tissue revealed clonal chromosome aberrations in six fibrocystic lesions. All the histologically normal tissue samples had a normal karyotype. The frequency of cytogenetically abnormal cases seems to correlate with the degree of histopathologic changes of the tissue; nonproliferative lesions may have clonal chromosome alterations, but at a low frequency. Whether women with karyotypically altered fibrocystic "disease" have a higher risk of developing invasive breast cancer, compared with women without microscopically visible genetic anomalies in fibrocystic lesions, remains unknown.
Phenotypic conversion from t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia to MLL gene rearrangement-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Phenotypic conversion from acute myeloid leukemia (AML) to acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is rare. A 38-year-old man was initially diagnosed as having AML (FAB-M2) associated with the t(8;21)(q22;q22) chromosomal abnormality. The blasts showed myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and CD13 antigen expression. He showed complete remission after standard chemotherapy for AML. However, the patient relapsed with blasts showing ALL morphology (FAB-L1), MPO negativity, and CD19 antigen expression 33 months after cessation of AML therapy. Cytogenetic analysis at relapse was unsuccessful. Molecular analysis of ALL blasts revealed immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene and MLL gene rearrangements but no AML1 gene. MLL gene rearrangement or the 11q23 chromosomal abnormality has been associated with therapy-related leukemia. The subsequent ALL in our patient may have been induced by the chemotherapy including daunorubicin, known as a topoisomerase II inhibitor.
Cloning and sequence analysis of four t(9;11) therapy-related leukemia breakpoints.	The t(9;11)(p22;q23) is the most common chromosomal translocation in topoisomerase II inhibitor therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (tAML). This translocation fuses the MLL and AF9 proto-oncogenes producing a novel chimeric protein. In order to gain insight into the mechanism generating the t(9;11) and to clarify the role topoisomerase II inhibition may play in that mechanism we have cloned and sequenced the breakpoints from four tAML patients with the t(9;11). This sequence analysis identifies topoisomerase II consensus binding sequences near or at the chromosome 11 and chromosome 9 breakpoints in all four patients. One patient also had the consensus binding sequence for the TRANSLIN DNA-binding protein at the 9p22 and 11q23 breakpoints. Our results further support a direct role for topoisomerase II in the genesis of these tAML translocations.
The remission status before and the PCR status after high-dose therapy with peripheral blood stem cell support are prognostic factors for relapse-free survival in patients with follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	It was the aim of our study to examine the clinical significance of t(14;18)-positive cells in samples from 47 patients with follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who underwent high-dose therapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation. At the time of PBSC mobilization, 25 patients were in first remission, while 22 patients had a history of previous treatment failure. At the same time, 43 patients had polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-positive cells in samples from bone marrow (BM) and/or peripheral blood (PB). Independent of the remission status, high-dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support were administered for PBSC mobilization. Following high-dose conditioning therapy which consisted of cyclophosphamide (200 mg/kg) and hyperfractionated total body irradiation (TBI, 14.4 Gy) or BEAM (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan), 34 patients received PCR-positive and 13 patients received PCR-negative autografts. After a median follow-up time of 20 months (range, 6-50) post-transplantation, 33 patients were in remission, while 14 patients had relapsed after a median time of 14.5 months (range, 10-42). Using the Andersen-Gill proportional hazards regression model for the analysis of relapse-free survival, we found that PCR-positive findings in samples from BM and/or PB at any given time-point after transplantation were associated with an increased estimated hazard ratio of 4.5 in comparison with a PCR-negative finding (P=0.013). On the other hand, patients included while they were in first remission had a smaller estimated hazard ratio of 0.3 when compared with patients with a history of previous treatment failure (P=0.048). For the latter group of patients, this translates into a significantly smaller probability of relapse-free survival in comparison to patients who were in first remission at the time of PBSC-mobilization (P=0.012). In conclusion, the remission status of the patients before autografting and the PCR status as assessed on the occasion of follow-up examinations are significant prognostic parameters for relapse-free survival in patients with follicular lymphoma undergoing high-dose therapy with PBSC autografting.
A multiplex RT-PCR assay for the detection of chimeric transcripts encoded by the risk-stratifying translocations of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Modern therapy for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is based on the principle of risk stratification. One of the most important laboratory features used to accurately risk stratify patients is the presence of specific chromosomal translocation within the leukemic blasts. In this paper, we describe a multiplex reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay for the accurate, sensitive, and rapid identification of chimeric transcripts encoded by the major risk-stratifying translocations of pediatric ALL. This assay will identify both the CML- and ALL-type BCR-ABL transcripts encoded by the t(9;22), all described variants of the E2A-PBX1 transcripts encoded by the t(1;19), the MLL-AF4 transcripts encoded by the t(4;11), and all variants of TEL-AML1 encoded by the t(12;21). In addition, we have developed a reverse dot-blot detection system as an alternative to traditional post-PCR Southern blot analysis. Application of this combined assay to the analysis of 70 leukemic samples and five cell lines resulted in a complete concordance between this multiplex assay and individual PCR reactions. The characteristics of the multiplex assay suggest that its application to routine clinical screening will significantly improve the ability of clinical laboratories to accurate risk stratify pediatric ALL patients.
Incidence of TEL/AML1 fusion in children with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The TEL/AML1 fusion associated with t(12;21)(p13;q22) is the most common gene rearrangement in childhood leukemia, occurring in approximately 25% of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and is associated with a favorable prognosis. For example, a cohort of pediatric patients with ALL retrospectively analyzed for the TEL/AML1 fusion treated on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) ALL Consortium protocols between 1980 to 1991 demonstrated a 100% relapse-free survival in TEL/AML1-positive patients with a median of 8.3 years of follow-up. However, two recent studies analyzing pediatric patients with relapsed ALL have reported the same incidence of the TEL/AML1 rearrangement as in patients with newly diagnosed ALL, suggesting that TEL/AML1 positivity is not a favorable prognostic indicator. To clarify this apparent discrepancy, 48 pediatric patients treated on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) protocols with ALL at first or second relapse were tested for TEL/AML1 using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The TEL/AML1 fusion was identified in only 1 of 32 analyzable relapsed ALL patients, in concordance with our previous reports of improved disease-free survival in TEL/AML1-positive patients. The low frequency of TEL/AML1-positive patients at relapse is significantly different than that reported in other studies. Although there are several potential explanations for the observed differences in TEL/AML1-positive patients at relapse, it is plausible that relapse-free survival in TEL/AML1-positive patients may be changed with different therapeutic approaches. Taken together, these results support the need for prospective analysis of prognosis in TEL/AML1-positive patients.
The characterization of murine BCMA gene defines it as a new member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily.	The BCMA gene is a new gene discovered by the molecular analysis of a t(4;16) translocation, characteristic of a human T cell lymphoma. It has no significant similarity with any known protein or motif, so that its function was unknown. This report describes the cloning of murine BCMA cDNA and its genomic counterpart. The mouse gene is organized into three exons, like the human gene, and lies in murine chromosome 16, in the 16B3 band, the counterpart of the human chromosome 16p13 band, where the human gene lies. Murine BCMA cDNA encodes a 185 amino acids protein (184 residues for the human), has a potential central transmembrane segment like the human protein and is 62% identical to it. The murine BCMA mRNA is found mainly in lymphoid tissues, as is human BCMA mRNA. Alignment of the murine and human BCMA protein sequences revealed a conserved motif of six cysteines in the N-terminal part, which strongly suggests that the BCMA protein belongs to the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily. Human BCMA is the first member of the TNFR family to be implicated in a chromosomal translocation.
Detection of SYT-SSX fusion transcripts in synovial sarcoma by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using archival paraffin-embedded tissues.	The reciprocal translocation t(X;18)(p11;q11) is known to be highly characteristic of synovial sarcoma, and its consequence, an SYT-SSX fusion gene, is expected to be a diagnostic molecular marker. In this study, we conducted a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction-based assay to detect the SYT-SSX fusion gene transcripts using archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor specimens from a series of 32 synovial sarcoma cases including 6 tumors found in unusual anatomical sites. The SYT-SSX fusion transcripts could be detected in 30 of 32 paraffin-embedded specimens (94%). A subsequent sequence analysis using the polymerase chain reaction products confirmed that the detected messages were derived from either the SYT-SSX1 (22 cases) or SYT-SSX2 (8 cases) fusion gene. Of 23 SYT-SSX-positive monophasic tumors, 16 tumors had an SYT-SSX1 fusion transcript. Fusion transcripts were detectable in all the 7 biphasic tumors analysed, one of which had an SYT-SSX2 fusion transcript. All of the six tumors at unusual locations (lung; 3, metastasis to the abdominal cavity from a tumor of retroperitoneal origin; 1, sacral region; 1, iliopsoas muscle; 1) contained detectable messages. Our results indicate that this molecular assay can be applied to archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues as a feasible and reliable molecular technique for the diagnosis of synovial sarcoma.
Differential expression of cyclin D1 in mantle cell lymphoma and other non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.	Mantle-cell lymphomas are associated with a characteristic chromosomal translocation, t(11;14)(q13;q32). This translocation involves rearrangement of the bcl-1 proto-oncogene from chromosome 11 to the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene on chromosome 14, resulting in an overexpression of cyclin D1 mRNA (also known as bcl-1 and PRAD1). In the current study performed on paraffin-embedded tissue, cyclin D1 mRNA could be detected in 23 of 24 mantle-cell lymphomas by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) whereas only 9 of 24 demonstrated a t(11;14) by PCR. However, we also found that cyclin D1 mRNA could be detected in the majority (11 of 17, 65%) of non-mantle-cell lymphomas and in a minority of atypical lymphoid hyperplasias (3 of 7, 43%). Cyclin D1 mRNA expression was not observed in floridly reactive lymph nodes (0 of 9) or in unstimulated lymph nodes (0 of 20), suggesting that it is a sensitive adjunct marker for malignant lymphoproliferative processes, but not specific for mantle-cell lymphoma. A semiquantitative RT-PCR assay was developed that compared the ratio of cyclin D1 to the constitutively expressed gene beta2-microglobulin. Using this assay on a limited number of our specimens, cyclin D1 overexpression in mantle-cell lymphoma could be reliably distinguished from its expression in other non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. This assay for cyclin D1 expression, designed for formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue, was a very sensitive and specific marker for mantle-cell lymphoma.
Persistence of translocations after accidental exposure to ionizing radiation.	To assess the validity of translocations for retrospective biodosimetry using FISH chromosome painting of peripheral lymphocytes in repeated samples of people accidentally exposed to radiation.
Comparison of radiation-induced aberration frequencies in chromosomes 1 and 2 of two human donors.	The purpose of this study was to analyse donor and time dependent variations in the frequencies of radiation-induced aberrations in chromosomes 1 and 2.
Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction on fine needle aspirates for rapid detection of translocations in synovial sarcoma.	To evaluate the utilization of fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy to obtain material for reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the detection of the t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) translocation in synovial sarcomas.
Classical and molecular cytogenetic methods in diagnosis of a rare translocation t(3;21).	We report the characterization by traditional cytogenetic methods and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of a rare balanced reciprocal translocation t(3;21) in a male spouse connected with several miscarriages. G- and C-banding analysis of the male karyotype was suggestive of breakpoints in chromosomal bands 3q11.1 and 21p11.1. Multicolor-FISH analysis using chromosome-specific alpha-satellite probes in combination with a locus-specific bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) from 21q22.3 allowed us both to identify the origin of centromeres in the derivative chromosomes and to establish centromere-telomere orientation of the translocated chromosome 21 segment. Characterization of the translocated chromosomes by FISH analysis permitted describing the exact karyotype of the carrier as: 46,XY,-3,-21,+der(3)(21qterO21q11. 2::3p11.2O cenO3qter),+der(21)(3pterO3p11.2::21q11.2OcenO21pte r).
Characterization of the breakpoints in unbalanced t(5;11)(p15;p15) constitutional chromosome translocations in two patients with beckwith-wiedemann syndrome using fluorescence in situ hybridisation.	Although the majority of patients with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) have a normal karyotype, the study of those rare patients with a cytogenetic abnormality has given considerable insight into the genetics of this condition. The karyotypic abnormalities found include partial chromosome duplications of paternal origin and maternally derived translocations which usually involve the 11p15 region and provide one of the lines of evidence for the location of the BWS gene(s). Because the extent of the duplicated region in these patients is variable, the phenotypic expression of BWS is presumably due to the presence of a common duplicated region. Two unrelated patients with BWS were both noted to have a similar unbalanced t(5;11)(p15;p14) translocation. The parents in both families were unaffected but both fathers carried a balanced translocation involving the same chromosomes. Since the extent and nature of the duplication apparently determines the complex phenotypes seen in these patients, we undertook a detailed analysis of the extent of the triplicated region using fluorescent in situ hybrisation (FISH). Despite having markedly different phenotypes and presenting in disimilar ways the two patients had apparently identical duplication breakpoints.
FISH analysis of a complex chromosome rearrangement involving nine breakpoints on chromosomes 6, 12, 14 and 16.	We report the prenatal diagnosis of an apparently balanced de novo complex chromosome rearrangement (CCR) which involved nine breakpoints on four different chromosomes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and spectral karyotyping (SKY) were performed as an adjunct to G-banding for characterization of the abnormal chromosomes. The 22-week female fetus showed minor dysmorphic features including dolichocephaly, broad fingernails, tibial bowing, clubfoot, thoracolumbar scoliosis and hypoplastic toenails. Autopsy revealed gall-bladder hypoplasia and an atrial septal defect. Chromosome analysis of fetal tissue confirmed the presence of the complex rearrangement.
Centromeric DNA break in a 10;16 reciprocal translocation associated with trisomy 16 confined placental mosaicism and maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome 16.	Stable centromeric breakage in non-acrocentric chromosomes and balanced reciprocal translocation mosaicism are both rare events. We studied a family in which the mother had mosaicism for a balanced reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 10 and 16 which was associated with a break in chromosome 16 centromere alpha-satellite DNA 146,XX,t(10;16)(q11.2;q11.1) [29]/46,XX[25]. The derivative chromosome 16 contained only a very small amount of 16 alpha-satellite DNA while the derivative 10 contained all of the 10 alpha-satellite DNA as well as a large amount of the 16 alpha-satellite DNA. The same translocation was present in all cells in her son who was found prenatally to have trisomy 16 mosaicism 46,XY,t(10;16) (q11.2;q11.1)mat[22]/47,idem,+16[4]. Trisomy 16 cells were subsequently determined to be confined to the placenta. DNA polymorphism analyses in the family demonstrated maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome 16 in the diploid child. The child, at age 7 months, had minor facial anomalies similar to a previously reported case of maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome 16. In addition to illustrating several rare events, this family further demonstrated that substantial deletion of the centromeric alpha-satellite DNA does not impair centromere function and both mitotic and meiotic stability are retained in such cases.
Pediatric primary diffuse large cell lymphoma of bone with t(3;22)(q27;q11).	A child with a primary lymphoma of bone (PLB) with a t(3;22)(q27;q11) is described.
Lipoblastoma presenting as a mesenteric mass in an infant.	This article describes an infant with a large abdominal mass and hypertension.
Near-haploid common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia of childhood with a second hyperdiploid line: a DNA ploidy and fluorescence in-situ hybridization study.	Near-haploidy is a rare cytogenetic finding in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and is associated with a poor prognosis. A second hyperdiploid line, occurring presumably by endoreduplication of the near-haploid stemline, is often observed. We present a case of common ALL in relapse characterized morphologically by a dual population of small and large lymphoblasts. Cytogenetic analysis supplemented with fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) studies localized near-haploidy and hyperdiploidy to the small and large blast population respectively. DNA ploidy determination confirmed two abnormal clones with near-haploidy as the predominant one. A novel t(9;12)(q11;q13) was present in the near-haploid clone and was duplicated in the hyperdiploid clone. This finding identified cells bearing near-haploidy to be the clonogenic population following malignant transformation and confirmed endoreduplication as the mechanism for the presence of associated hyperdiploidy.
Sperm segregation analysis of a complex chromosome rearrangement, 2;22;11, by whole chromosome painting.	Using the human sperm-hamster oocyte fusion technique and whole chromosome painting, we studied sperm chromosome segregation in a male heterozygous for a complex chromosome rearrangement, 46,XY,-2, +der(2)t(2;11)(q13; q23),-11,+der(11)t(11;22)(q23;q11.2),-22, +der(22)t(2;22)(q13; q11.2). A total of 208 sperm complements were analyzed. The frequency of sperm carrying a normal or a balanced complement was 13.5% (9.62% and 3.85%, respectively). The frequency of unbalanced sperm was 86.5% (64.9% from 3:3 segregation, including 30 different types; 20.7% from 4:2 segregation, including 21 different types; and 0.96% from 5:1 segregation, including 2 different types). The sex ratio, determined in 134 sperm complements, did not differ from the expected 1:1 ratio. The results obtained in this study are compatible with the formation, during the synaptic process, of a complex hexavalent figure involving chromosomes 2, 11, and 22. The behavior and segregation of this complex figure would explain the high frequency (86.5%) of unbalanced complements observed in this carrier.
The genomic breakpoint and chimeric transcripts in the EWSR1-ETV4/E1AF gene fusion in Ewing sarcoma.	Chromosome translocation creates a fusion between the EWSR1 gene and an ETS family gene. The fusion between these two genes is a characteristic feature of Ewing sarcoma. We previously identified a fourth translocation, t(17;22)(q12;q12), in genomic DNA isolated from cells of patients affected with Ewing sarcoma. The discovery of this translocation suggested that there might be a novel EWSR1-ETV4 fusion gene. In the present study, we determined the genomic breakpoint and characterized the chimeric transcript of the EWSR1-ETV4 fusion gene in two t(17;22) Ewing sarcomas. Reverse transcriptase-PCR assay showed an in-frame fusion between the 5'-terminal region of EWSR1 and the 3' end of ETV4 (alias E1AF, PEA3); the chimeric transcript could thus serve as a template for expression of a protein composed of the N-terminal portion of EWSR1 fused to the DNA-binding domain of ETV4. Long PCR and sequence analysis of genomic DNA revealed that either exon 8 or intron 7 of EWSR1 is fused to the same intron of ETV4 in both tumors. Several palindromic oligomer sequences were found close to the breakpoints in both genes. The 159-bp Alu-like sequence was repeated in the breakpoint region of the ETV4 gene. These observations suggest a mechanism of EWSR1-ETV4 gene fusion.
De novo unbalanced translocation resulting in monosomy for proximal 14q and distal 4p in a fetus with intrauterine growth retardation, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and partial hemihypoplasia.	We present the perinatal findings of a fetus with a de novo unbalanced chromosome translocation that resulted in monosomy for proximal 14q and monosomy for distal 4p. Prenatal sonographic examination at 27 weeks of gestation showed intrauterine growth retardation, microcephaly, cardiomegaly with arrhythmia, and asymmetry of the upper limbs. Genetic amniocentesis showed an abnormal karyotype of 45,XX,der(4)t(4;14)(p16.3;q12),-14. Linkage analysis of the family confirmed the maternal origin of the deletions. Molecular refinement of the deletion breakpoints indicated that the breakpoints at 4p16.3 and 14q12 were located between loci D4S403 (present) and D4S394 (absent), and between loci D14S252 (present) and D14S64 (absent), respectively. Necropsy showed dysmorphic features compatible with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, partial hemihypoplasia, and a normal brain without evidence of holoprosencephaly. Our case adds to the list of clinical phenotypes associated with the proximal regions of 14q.
Studies of synaptonemal complexes in farm mammals--a review.	For the last 10 years extensive studies of synaptonemal complexes in farm mammals were carried out. In this article a survey of the obtained results is presented. Studies on synaptic behavior of chromosomes at pachytene substage of meiotic prophase I in carriers of centric fusions (cattle, sheep, goat, pig, and blue fox) showed that the trivalent is rarely involved in an association with the sex bivalent. In carriers of reciprocal translocations (pig and cattle) a wide range of synaptic configurations were found. Besides the expected cross-shaped quadrivalent, the following configurations were observed: open quadrivalent, trivalent plus univalent, and two heteromorphic bivalents. The latter configurations were quite frequently involved in the association with XY bivalent. Studies of synaptonemal complexes in interspecies hybrids (cattle x zebu, river x swamp buffalo, blue fox x silver fox) revealed a wide range of synaptic disturbances. Cases of pericentric inversions, aneuploidy, and chromosomal polymorphisms are also reviewed. This survey shows that synaptonemal complex analysis is a very useful tool in studies on causes of altered fertility in carriers of abnormal chromosome complement.
High incidence of translocations t(11;14)(q13;q32) and t(4;14)(p16;q32) in patients with plasma cell malignancies.	Abnormalities involving the 14q32 region are recurrent chromosomal changes in plasma cell malignancies. Recent preliminary molecular analyses found IGH rearrangements in almost 100% of human myeloma cell lines and in 75% of patients. However, no systematic study analyzing the nature of the partner chromosomal regions have been reported thus far. To define the exact incidence of illegitimate IGH rearrangements and the respective incidence of partner genes cloned to date, we analyzed 141 patients with either multiple myeloma (MM, n = 127) or primary plasma cell leukemia (PCL, n = 14) using fluorescence in situ hybridization. The overall incidence of illegitimate recombinations was 57% (80 of 141 patients). Analysis of this incidence according to Durie and Salmon stage, patients' status, i.e., MM versus primary PCL and diagnosis versus relapse, immunoglobulin type and subtype, and beta2-microglobulin value, did not show any correlation. To analyze the nature of the partner chromosomal region, we selected probes specific for the following genes: FGFR3 (4p16), MYC (8q24), CCND1 (11q13), MAF (16q23), and BCL2 (18q21). These probes, combined with differentially labeled 14q32 probes, were used for dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization on interphase plasma cells. Among the 80 patients with illegitimate IGH rearrangement, we identified 23 IGH-CCND1 fusion cases [i.e., t(11;14)], 17 IGH-FGFR3 fusion cases [i.e., t(4;14)], 3 IGH-MYC fusion cases [i.e., t(8;14)], and only one IGH-MAF fusion case. No IGH-BCL2 fusion case was detected. In 37 of 80 patients, none of these partner genes was involved. Analysis of cases with specific translocations according to their bioclinical features at diagnosis did not show any correlation. This study demonstrated that CCND1 and FGFR3 genes are involved together in about 50% of MM and primary PCL patients with illegitimate IGH rearrangements.
Mapping of members of the low-copy-number repetitive DNA sequence family chAB4 within the p arms of human acrocentric chromosomes: characterization of Robertsonian translocations.	Members of the long-range, low-copy-number repetitive DNA sequence family chAB4 are located on nine different human chromosome pairs and the Y chromosome, i.e. on the short arms of all the acrocentrics. To localize the chAB4 sequences more precisely on the acrocentrics, chAB4-specific probes together with rDNA and a number of satellite sequences were hybridized to metaphase chromosomes of normal probands and of carriers of Robertsonian translocations of the frequent types rob(13q14q) and rob(14q21q). The results demonstrate that chAB4 is located on both sides of the rDNA on all the acrocentrics; the exact location, however, may be chromosome specific. Chromosome 22, most probably, is the only chromosome where chAB4 is found in the direct neighbourhood of the centromere. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses of metaphase chromosomes of carriers of rob(21q22q) revealed breakpoint diversity for this rare type of Robertsonian translocation chromosome. A direct involvement of chAB4 sequences in recombination processes leading to the Robertsonian translocations analysed in this study can be excluded.
The t(8;21) translocation is not consistently associated with high Bcl-2 expression in de novo acute myeloid leukemias of adults.	Chromosomal translocations are commonly found in de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, and the fusion proteins produced from these genetic abnormalities are assumed to contribute directly to leukemogenesis and/or progression. The AML1/ETO fusion protein, created by translocations between chromosomes 8 and 21 [t(8;21); G. Nucifora and J. D. Rowley, Leuk. Lymphoma, 14: 353-362, 1994; K. L. Rhoades et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 93: 11895-11900, 1996] can induce anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 expression in vitro and was proposed to thereby promote the survival of t(8;21)-bearing AML cells (L. Klampfer et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 93: 14059-14064, 1996). We confirm that cells of the t(8;21)-bearing Kasumi cell line do express high levels of Bcl-2 protein, as reported previously. However, we show that primary AML cells with (8;21) chromosomal translocations generally express low levels of Bcl-2 protein relative to normal bone marrow-derived myeloid cells and to AML samples with other simple karyotypic abnormalities. We note that p53 mutations are present in the myeloid cell lines expressing AML-ETO protein from chromosomal translocations (Kasumi and SKNO) or from transfected fusion genes (U937) but were undetected in our analyses of 28 primary t(8;21)-bearing AML cell samples from de novo AMLs. Because wild-type p53 can transcriptionally down-regulate bcl-2, we speculate that p53 mutations may contribute to the association of t(8;21) chromosomal abnormalities with higher Bcl-2 expression levels in leukemia cell lines. We also note that some t(8;21)-bearing samples from pediatric and older adult patients do express somewhat higher levels of Bcl-2 than t(8;21)-bearing samples from young adult patients. This suggests that Bcl-2 overexpression could occur in these AML cells by an as yet undefined, p53-independent mechanism and could contribute to the reported association of t(8;21) karyotypes with poor clinical outcomes in childhood AML patients and/or to typically poor clinical outcomes in elderly AML patients.
Double-strand break repair by interchromosomal recombination: suppression of chromosomal translocations.	To directly determine whether recombinational repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs) can occur between heterologous chromosomes and lead to chromosomal rearrangements in mammalian cells, we employed an ES cell system to analyze recombination between repeats on heterologous chromosomes. We found that recombination is induced at least 1000-fold following the introduction of a DSB in one repeat. Most (98%) recombinants repaired the DSB by gene conversion in which a small amount of sequence information was transferred from the unbroken chromosome onto the broken chromosome. The remaining recombinants transferred a larger amount of information, but still no chromosomal aberrations were apparent. Thus, mammalian cells are capable of searching genome-wide for sequences that are suitable for DSB repair. The lack of crossover events that would have led to translocations supports a model in which recombination is coupled to replication.
A child with a t(11;19)(q14-21;p12) in a pulmonary mucoepidermoid carcinoma.	We report on a mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) of the lung in a 6-year-old girl with a t(11;19)(q14-21;p12) as the sole karyotypic abnormality. An apparently identical t(11;19) has been reported previously in a MEC originating from the major and minor salivary glands. Our findings indicate that the t(11;19) is intimately associated with the mucoepidermoid phenotype and may be used as a diagnostic marker for this tumour type.
Chromosomal abnormalities and tumor development: from genes to therapeutic mechanisms.	This article highlights the recent advances in our understanding of the molecular structure and function of proteins that are activated or created by chromosomal abnormalities and discusses their possible role in tumor development. The molecular characterization of these proteins has revealed that tumor-specific fusion proteins are the consequence of the majority of chromosomal translocations associated with leukemias and solid tumors. A common theme that emerges is that creation of these proteins disrupts the normal development of tumor-specific target cells by blocking apoptosis. These insights identify these chromosomal translocation-associated genes as potential targets for improved cancer therapies.
Genetic instabilities in human cancers.	Whether and how human tumours are genetically unstable has been debated for decades. There is now evidence that most cancers may indeed be genetically unstable, but that the instability exists at two distinct levels. In a small subset of tumours, the instability is observed at the nucleotide level and results in base substitutions or deletions or insertions of a few nucleotides. In most other cancers, the instability is observed at the chromosome level, resulting in losses and gains of whole chromosomes or large portions thereof. Recognition and comparison of these instabilities are leading to new insights into tumour pathogenesis.
The LMO1 and LDB1 proteins interact in human T cell acute leukaemia with the chromosomal translocation t(11;14)(p15;q11).	The ectopic expression of LMO1 or LMO2 in T cell acute leukaemias resulting from chromosomal translocations t(11;14)(p15;qll) or t(11;14)(p13;q11) respectively in a causal factor in tumorigenesis. LMO1 has been found as a heterodimer with a 46 Kd protein in a T cell line derived from a childhood T-acute leukaemia. This 46 Kd protein is the LIM-binding protein LDB1/NLI. The latter is a phosphoprotein and binds to LMO1 in its phosphorylated state and essentially all the LMO1 and LDB1 protein in the T cell line is part of the complex. Therefore, the LMO1-LDB1 interaction is likely to be involved in tumorigenesis after LMO1 is ectopically expressed following chromosomal translocation in T cells prior to development of acute leukaemias.
Cytogenetic analysis of spermatozoa in the father of a child with a de-novo reciprocal translocation t(7;9) (q22;p23).	Analysis of sperm chromosomes was carried out in the father of a child with a de-novo reciprocal translocation t(7;9) (q22;p23) by G-banding and chromosome painting. Sperm metaphases were obtained using the zona-free hamster oocyte-human sperm fusion technique. A total of 138 complements were sequentially analysed by G-banding and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH). The frequency of spermatozoa with structural chromosome abnormalities (5.1%) and the estimated conservative aneuploidy (1.4%) were within the range obtained in our control donors (6.9 and 4%). The sex ratio (45.3% X versus 54.7% Y) was not significantly different from the theoretical 1:1. A total of 309 sperm complements was analysed by FISH, 138 sequentially analysed by G-banding-FISH and another 171 analysed by FISH only. The frequencies of structural chromosome abnormalities for chromosomes 7 and 9 (0.6 and 0% respectively) were not significantly different from those obtained in our control donors (0.6 and 0.8%). No spermatozoa with the t(7;9) (q22;p23) were observed, showing no evidence for a germ-cell mosaicism. A statistically significant, positive association between sperm breakpoints and fragile sites (P = 0.0225) was observed. However, the coincidence between fragile sites and sperm breaks (80%) was not significantly different from that obtained in our control donors (79.2%). These results suggest that in this case the risk of structural chromosome abnormalities in further offspring is not increased, although an association between fragile sites and sperm chromosome breaks in the father does exist.
Characterization of reciprocal translocations in pigs using dual-colour chromosome painting and primed in situ DNA labelling.	We report the use of dual-colour chromosome painting to determine the exact nature of certain chromosome rearrangements observed in the pig (Sus scrofa domestica). The chromosomal abnormalities were detected by GTG- and RBG-banding techniques. The initially proposed interpretations were: (1) rcp(6;13)(p1.5;q4.1); (2) rcp(11;16)(p1.4;q1.4); (3) rcp(6;16)(p1.1;q1.1); (4) rcp(13;17)(q4.1;q1.1); (5) rcp(6;14)(q2.7;q2.1); (6) rcp(3;5)(p1.3;q2.3); (7) rcp(2; 14)(q1.3;q2.7); (8) rcp(15;17)(q1.3;q2.1). Hybridizations were carried out with biotin- and digoxigenin-labelled probes obtained by priming authorizing random mismatches polymerase chain reaction (PARM-PCR) amplification of porcine flow-sorted chromosomes. In some cases, i.e. (1), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8), the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) results allowed confirmation of the interpretations proposed with classical cytogenetic methods. Chromosome painting proved the reciprocity of the translocation in cases (1), (6) and (8), whereas modifications of the formula were proposed for case (2). Primed in situ DNA labelling (PRINS) experiments have also been carried out in case (3) using a primer specific for the centromeres of acrocentric chromosomes (first experiment) or a primer specific for the centromeres of a subset of meta- and submetacentric chromosomes including chromosome 6 (second experiment). It allowed us to demonstrate that the breakpoints occurred in the centromeric region of chromosome 16 and in the p. arm of chromosome 6, just above the centromere.
A new method for the detection of bcr/abl sequences amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) following bone marrow transplantation.	Disease recurrence is a major problem in patients receiving bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia. Residual malignant cells are the most likely source of recurrence. Detection of minimal residual disease early during therapy may provide an additional prognostic value and help in identifying patients who are at high risk of relapse. PCR followed by hybridization is the most sensitive method to investigate the persistence of leukemic cells. However, more reproducible methods suitable to standardization and quantification are required in clinical practice. In this study, we describe a novel PCR assay combined with immunological and colorimetric detection of the bcr-rearrangement. Residual bcr/abl rearranged cells were observed in 7 patients. Our results show that the assay is equally sensitive as RT-PCR, more versatile in terms of standardization and easily adaptable as a diagnostic test.
