The BRCA2 transactivation domain does not interact with JNK.	The N-terminal region of BRCA2 has the capacity to activate transcription when fused to a heterologous DNA binding domain and includes a segment with amino acid similarity to the JNK-docking site in the cellular JUN protein. However, unlike JUN, we have determined that this region of BRCA2 neither interacts with nor serves as a substrate for JNK, or any other kinase that can be detected in extracts from either fibroblasts or epithelial cells. While this clearly does not rule out a transcriptional role for BRCA2, our findings indicate that BRCA2 is not regulated by the JNK pathway in a manner analogous to JUN. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 25:407-409, 1999.
Low-level transforming activity of an activated Ras gene under the control of a vaccinia virus p40 promoter is abrogated by truncation of the Ras cDNA.	Many human cancers have been shown to contain activated forms of the Ras proto-oncogene. Mutations comprising amino acid changes at codons 12, 13 and 61 therefore represent unique targets for cancer immunotherapy. Recombinant Vaccinia viruses encoding point mutated Ras oncogenes have raised issues concerning the safety and transforming ability of these recombinant vaccines. Vaccinia virus, a representative of the orthopox virus genus, is a large DNA virus that is cytopathogenic and that replicates in the cytoplasm of the infected cell. However, it remains unclear whether orthopox viruses are capable of genetic interactions with infected cells. Our studies show that DNA isolated from cells infected with a recombinant Vaccinia virus expressing mutated Ras constituted a poor reagent for transfection into NIH3T3 cells for transformation analysis. Stable integration of a recombinant Vaccinia virus expressing mutant Ras DNA was not detected in recipient cells. This study also demonstrates that the crossover plasmids used to generate the recombinant virus where the activated Ras gene is under the control of a Vaccinia virus early promoter had low but detectable transforming efficiency in the NIH3T3 transformation assay. Analysis of the transfected cells indicated that Ras transcription was initiated upstream of the Vaccinia virus promoter. The introduction of wobble mutations as well as the truncation of the Ras protein removed the transforming capabilities of the crossover vector. This study demonstrates the potential problems and solutions in the use of point mutated oncogenes in live vectors for cancer vaccine development.
Investigation of steroid receptor function in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Steroid hormones are small lipophilic molecules that control a wide range of responses in both the developing and adult organism. The actions of these molecules are mediated by soluble receptor proteins that function as hormone-activated transcription factors. The first steroid receptors were expressed in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae over 10 years ago, and to date virtually all the classical steroid receptors, together with a number of non-steroid members of the nuclear receptor superfamily, have been expressed in yeast. The ability to reconstitute steroid receptor signalling in yeast cells by co-expression of the receptor protein and a reporter gene driven by the appropriate hormone response element has presented researchers with a powerful model system for investigating receptor action. In this review, the use of yeast-based steroid receptor transactivation assays to investigate the roles of molecular chaperones, the mechanisms of DNA binding and gene activation, and the functional properties of hormone mimics will be discussed.
ASPP proteins specifically stimulate the apoptotic function of p53.	We identified a family of proteins termed ASPP. ASPP1 is a protein homologous to 53BP2, the C-terminal half of ASPP2. ASPP proteins interact with p53 and specifically enhance p53-induced apoptosis but not cell cycle arrest. Inhibition of endogenous ASPP function suppresses the apoptotic function of endogenous p53 in response to apoptotic stimuli. ASPP enhance the DNA binding and transactivation function of p53 on the promoters of proapoptotic genes in vivo. Two tumor-derived p53 mutants with reduced apoptotic function were defective in cooperating with ASPP in apoptosis induction. The expression of ASPP is frequently downregulated in human breast carcinomas expressing wild-type p53 but not mutant p53. Therefore, ASPP regulate the tumor suppression function of p53 in vivo.
Pathologic human GR mutant has a transdominant negative effect on the wild-type GR by inhibiting its translocation into the nucleus: importance of the ligand-binding domain for intracellular GR trafficking.	The syndrome of familial or sporadic glucocorticoid resistance is characterized by hypercortisolism without the clinical stigmata of Cushing syndrome. This condition is usually caused by mutations of the human GR, a ligand-activated transcription factor that shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. A pathological human mutant receptor, in which Ile was replaced by Asn at position 559, had negligible ligand binding, was transcriptionally extremely weak, and exerted a transdominant negative effect on the transactivational activity of the wild-type GR, causing severe glucocorticoid resistance in the heterozygous state. To understand the mechanism of this mutant's trans-dominance, we constructed several N-terminal GR fusion chimeras to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and demonstrated that their transactivational activities were similar to those of the original proteins. The GFP-human (h) GRalphaI559N chimera was predominantly localized in the cytoplasm, and only high doses or prolonged glucocorticoid treatment triggered complete nuclear import that took 180 vs. 12 min for GFP-hGRalpha. Furthermore, hGRalphaI559N inhibited nuclear import of the wild-type GFP-hGRalpha, suggesting that its trans-dominant activity on the wild-type receptor is probably exerted at the process of nuclear translocation. As the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the GR appears to play an important role in its nucleocytoplasmic shuttling, we also examined two additional GR-related fusion proteins. The natural hGR isoform beta (GFP-hGRbeta), containing a unique LBD, was transactivation-inactive, moderately trans-dominant, and localized instantaneously and predominantly in the nucleus; glucocorticoid addition did not change its localization. Similarly, GFP-hGR514, lacking the entire LBD, was instantaneously and predominantly localized in the nucleus regardless of presence of glucocorticoids. Using a cell fusion system we demonstrated that nuclear export of GFP-hGRalphaI559N (250 min) and GFP-hGRbeta (300 min) was drastically impaired compared with that of GFP-hGRalpha (50 min) and GFP-hGR514 (50 min), suggesting that an altered LBD may impede the exit of the GR from the nucleus. We conclude that the trans-dominant negative effect of the pathological mutant is exerted primarily at the translocation step, whereas that of the natural isoform beta is exerted at the level of transcription.
Biological activity of RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) towards distinct transcriptional activators.	The zinc finger protein RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is a transcriptional repressor that represses neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues. We have analyzed the ability of REST and the REST mutants, RESTDeltaN and RESTDeltaC lacking either the N-terminal or C-terminal repression domains of REST, to inhibit transcription mediated by distinct transcriptional activator proteins. For this purpose we have designed an activator specific assay where transcription is activated as a result of only one distinct activation domain. In addition, binding sites for REST were inserted in the 5'-untranslated region or at a distant position downstream of the polyadenylation signal. The results show that REST or the REST mutants containing only one repression domain were able to block transcriptional activation mediated by the transcriptional activation domains derived from p53, AP2, Egr-1, and GAL4. Moreover, REST, as well as the REST mutants, blocked the activity of the phosphorylation-dependent activation domain of Elk1. However, the activity of the activation domain derived from cAMP response element binding protein 2 (CREB2), was not inhibited by REST, RESTDeltaN or RESTDeltaC, suggesting that REST is able to distinguish between distinct transcriptional activation domains. Additionally, the activator specific assay, together with a positive-dominant mutant of REST that activated instead of repressed transcription, was used in titration experiments to show that REST has transcriptional repression and no transcriptional activation properties when bound to the 5'-untranslated region of a gene.
Interleukin 6 gene promoter polymorphism is not associated with Kawasaki disease.	We examined the IL-6 gene promoter and detected several interesting promoter polymorphisms: GGGCTG insertion at +162 bp and G deletion at +168 bp positions (M1), A to G substitution at -594 bp (M2) of the reported IL-6 promoter sequence. Other rare variations were also observed at several positions: -583 bp (T insertion), -507 bp (C insertion), -71 bp (T deletion), +17 bp (C insertion), and +121 bp (GC insertion). Although Kawasaki disease (KD) patients demonstrate a drastic increase in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) during the acute phase that parallels the duration of fever, there were no significant differences in the nucleotide sequence between the KD patients and normal control group. By transient transfection with IL-6 gene promoter-luciferase fusion plasmids into CV-1 cells, we tested the functional significances of the polymorphisms. Mutations at +162 bp, +168 bp and -594 bp significantly decreased luciferase expression (P < 0.05), suggesting the promoter elements flanking the mutated nucleotides are important in transcriptional activation.
Effect of naturally occurring E2F-4 alterations on transcriptional activation and proliferation in transfected cells.	E2F is a family of transcription factors implicated in the regulation of gene expression required for progression through the G(1)-S transition. We have previously detected tumor-specific mutations at a trinucleotide repeat coding sequence of E2F-4 gene in a subset of human sporadic colorectal cancers. The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential functional consequences of these E2F-4 mutations. We transfected NIH3T3 fibroblasts with expression constructs containing wild-type as well as mutant E2F-4 cDNA, and the effect of the E2F-4 mutations on proliferation was examined. Alteration in transactivation of the E2F consensus promoter sequence was also examined by transient cotransfection of a E2F-4 with a DP-2 construct into cultured human cells. Transfected cell clones overexpressing mutant E2F-4 grew more rapidly and showed higher proliferative activity by increased immunohistochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). All three mutant forms of E2F-4 showed elevated transactivation of the E2F consensus promoter sequence. Thus, expression of mutant E2F-4s confers a growth advantage in vivo, and this effect may be related to the acquisition of a neoplastic phenotype.
A prominent role for airway epithelial NF-kappa B activation in lipopolysaccharide-induced airway inflammation.	To reveal the causal role of airway epithelial NF-kappaB activation in evoking airway inflammation, a transgenic mouse was created expressing a mutant version of the inhibitory protein I-kappaBalpha. This I-kappaBalpha superrepressor (I-kappaBalpha(SR)) acts to repress NF-kappaB activation exclusively in airway epithelial cells, under the transcriptional control of the rat CC10 promoter (CC10-I-kappaBalpha(SR)). Compared with transgene-negative littermates, intranasal instillation of LPS did not induce nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in airway epithelium of CC10-I-kappaBalpha(SR) transgenic mice. Consequently, the influx of neutrophils into the airways and secretion of the NF-kappaB-regulated neutrophilic chemokine, macrophage-inflammatory protein-2, and the inflammatory cytokine, TNF-alpha, were markedly reduced in CC10-I-kappaBalpha(SR) mice relative to the transgene-negative mice exposed to LPS. Despite an inability to activate NF-kappaB in airway epithelium, resident alveolar macrophages from transgene-positive mice were capable of activating NF-kappaB in a manner indistinguishable from transgene-negative mice. These findings demonstrate that airway epithelial cells play a prominent role in orchestrating the airway inflammatory response to LPS and suggest that NF-kappaB signaling in these cells is important for modulating innate immune responses to microbial products.
Interaction of the HPV E7 proteins with the pCAF acetyltransferase.	Most cervical carcinomas express the E6 and E7 proteins of a high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV). These proteins affect growth control by interfering with the functions of cell regulatory proteins, promoting oncogenic transformation. A key target of E7 is the tumor suppressor protein pRb, which directly interacts with E7. However, binding to additional cellular regulatory proteins is clearly required for oncogenesis, as mutants of E7 have been identified that bind to pRb, yet fail to transform efficiently. Here we demonstrate the interaction of the HPV 6, 16 and 18 E7 proteins with the pCAF acetyltransferase, which has been reported to function as a coactivator for a variety of transcription factors including p53. Mutation of a highly conserved leucine residue within the zinc finger region of HPV 16 E7 disrupts binding to pCAF and also impairs transformation and transcriptional activation. HPV 16 E7 interacts with the acetyltransferase domain of pCAF, and reduces its acetyltransferase activity in vitro. Our analysis of the interaction between the pCAF acetyltransferase and E7 provides new insight into the mechanisms by which the E7 oncoproteins can alter cellular gene expression and growth.
The chromatin-remodeling complex WINAC targets a nuclear receptor to promoters and is impaired in Williams syndrome.	We identified a human multiprotein complex (WINAC) that directly interacts with the vitamin D receptor (VDR) through the Williams syndrome transcription factor (WSTF). WINAC has ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling activity and contains both SWI/SNF components and DNA replication-related factors. The latter might explain a WINAC requirement for normal S phase progression. WINAC mediates the recruitment of unliganded VDR to VDR target sites in promoters, while subsequent binding of coregulators requires ligand binding. This recruitment order exemplifies that an interaction of a sequence-specific regulator with a chromatin-remodeling complex can organize nucleosomal arrays at specific local sites in order to make promoters accessible for coregulators. Furthermore, overexpression of WSTF could restore the impaired recruitment of VDR to vitamin D regulated promoters in fibroblasts from Williams syndrome patients. This suggests that WINAC dysfunction contributes to Williams syndrome, which could therefore be considered, at least in part, a chromatin-remodeling factor disease.
The spacing between adjacent binding sites in the family of repeats affects the functions of Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 in transcription activation and stable plasmid maintenance.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and the closely related Herpesvirus papio (HVP) are stably replicated as episomes in proliferating latently infected cells. Maintenance and partitioning of these viral plasmids requires a viral sequence in cis, termed the family of repeats (FR), that is bound by a viral protein, Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1). Upon binding FR, EBNA1 maintains viral genomes in proliferating cells and activates transcription from viral promoters required for immortalization. FR from either virus encodes multiple binding sites for the viral maintenance protein, EBNA1, with the FR from the prototypic B95-8 strain of EBV containing 20 binding sites, and FR from HVP containing 8 binding sites. In addition to differences in the number of EBNA1-binding sites, adjacent binding sites in the EBV FR are typically separated by 14 base pairs (bp), but are separated by 10 bp in HVP. We tested whether the number of binding sites, as well as the distance between adjacent binding sites, affects the function of EBNA1 in transcription activation or plasmid maintenance. Our results indicate that EBNA1 activates transcription more efficiently when adjacent binding sites are separated by 10 bp, the spacing observed in HVP. In contrast, using two separate assays, we demonstrate that plasmid maintenance is greatly augmented when adjacent EBNA1-binding sites are separated by 14 bp, and therefore, presumably lie on the same face of the DNA double helix. These results provide indication that the functions of EBNA1 in transcription activation and plasmid maintenance are separable.
Mechanism of action of the papillomavirus E2 repressor: repression in the absence of DNA binding.	Repression of papillomavirus E2-dependent gene expression was studied by using transient transfections into mouse embryo fibroblast cells. Cotransfection of a gene corresponding to the naturally occurring repressor E2-TR along with the full-length E2 gene resulted in up to 98% repression of E2-dependent reporter gene expression. A series of E2 DNA-binding domain mutants were transferred into the E2-TR form and characterized for their ability to repress E2-dependent transactivation. All mutants which were defective for DNA binding but were dimerization competent repressed E2 transactivation as well or nearly as well as the wild-type repressor. E2 mutants which lacked dimerization activity repressed transactivation poorly or not at all. These results indicate that the E2 repressor can inhibit transcription, in the absence of DNA binding, by forming heterodimers with full-length E2.
The Bel-1 protein of human foamy virus activates human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gene expression via a novel DNA target site.	The Bel-1 protein of human foamy virus can activate transcription directed by the long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). The target sequence for Bel-1 is shown to lie within the HIV-1 LTR U3 region but does not coincide with any previously described factor-binding site. Gene expression directed by an HIV-1 LTR lacking functional sites for the inducible cellular transcription factor NF-kappa B was activated over 100-fold by coexpression of Bel-1. These observations suggest that Bel-1 has the potential to significantly enhance the level of HIV-1 gene expression in cells dually infected with HIV-1 and human foamy virus.
V-erbA and c-erbA proteins enhance transcriptional activation by c-jun.	The ability of different transcription factors to interact with one another is an important means by which the eucaryotic cell can integrate separate growth and differentiation signals into a coherent response. We report here an analysis of the interactions of transcription factors that are also the products of oncogenes: the erbA, jun and fos proteins. We demonstrate that the c-jun polypeptide can functionally interact with the c-erbA protein (thyroid hormone receptor) to yield an enhanced activity greater than that of either factor individually. Although the avian erythroblastosis v-erbA allele is generally thought to act as a transcriptional repressor in vertebrate cells, we also report the existence of promoter contexts where v-erbA, as well as c-erbA, can serve as 'co-activators' of c-jun function. V-erbA appears to augment retinoic acid receptor function in the same context. Our results suggest that v-erbA may have unanticipated positive effect on transcription in the neoplastic cell in addition to the repressor functions previously characterized.
SREBPs suppress IRS-2-mediated insulin signalling in the liver.	Insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS-2) is the main mediator of insulin signalling in the liver, controlling insulin sensitivity. Sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) have been established as transcriptional regulators of lipid synthesis. Here, we show that SREBPs directly repress transcription of IRS-2 and inhibit hepatic insulin signalling. The IRS-2 promoter is activated by forkhead proteins through an insulin response element (IRE). Nuclear SREBPs effectively replace and interfere in the binding of these transactivators, resulting in inhibition of the downstream PI(3)K/Akt pathway, followed by decreased glycogen synthesis. These data suggest a molecular mechanism for the physiological switching from glycogen synthesis to lipogenesis and hepatic insulin resistance that is associated with hepatosteatosis.
Activation of the transcription factor HIF-1 and its target genes, VEGF, HO-1, iNOS, during fracture repair.	One of the immediate sequelae of bone fracture is regional hypoxia resulting from vasculature disruption. Hypoxia stabilizes and activates the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), which ultimately leads to HIF-1-regulated gene expression. Because nothing is known about HIF-1 involvement in bone regeneration, we performed a series of experiments to elucidate the expression pattern of HIF-1alpha and selected HIF-1 target genes using a rat femoral fracture model. Callus samples were obtained on postfracture days (PFD) 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, and 21. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) was employed to quantify the temporal mRNA expression patterns of HIF-1alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Elevated HIF-1alpha and VEGF expression was seen at all time points, with peak increases of approximately 6- and 2-fold relative to the intact bone present on PFD 10 for HIF-1alpha and VEGF, respectively. Robust activation of iNOS was detected solely on PFD 10 (6.8-fold) with all other time points showing slight downregulation. HO-1 expression peaked on PFD 3 (4.5-fold) with no significant changes on any other PFD. Western blot analysis verified the temporal expression patterns with HIF-1alpha protein expression showing a steady rise to a PFD 10 peak of approximately 18-fold. Similarly, the expression patterns for VEGF and HO-1 showed increases of approximately 4-fold at their PFD 10 and PFD 3 peaks, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis of PFD 10 callus sections revealed coexpression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF in proliferating chondrocytes and active osteoblasts. Immunostaining for HO-1 on PFD 3 callus sections demonstrated strong expression in hematoma macrophages and vascular endothelial cells. Taken together, these experiments demonstrate for the first time that HIF-1alpha is upregulated at both transcriptional and translational levels in the fracture callus and indicate that PFD 10 may be a key angiogenic time point in the developing rat fracture callus.
Identification, mutational analysis, and coactivator requirements of two distinct transcriptional activation domains of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hap4 protein.	The Hap4 protein of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae activates the transcription of genes that are required for growth on nonfermentable carbon sources. Previous reports suggested the presence of a transcriptional activation domain within the carboxyl-terminal half of Hap4 that can function in the absence of Gcn5, a transcriptional coactivator protein and histone acetyltransferase. The boundaries of this activation domain were further defined to a region encompassing amino acids 359 to 476. Within this region, several clusters of hydrophobic amino acids are critical for transcriptional activity. This activity does not require GCN5 or two other components of the SAGA coactivator complex, SPT3 and SPT8, but it does require SPT7 and SPT20. Contrary to previous reports, a Hap4 fragment comprising amino acids 1 to 330 can support the growth of yeast on lactate medium, and when tethered to lexA, can activate a reporter gene with upstream lexA binding sites, demonstrating the presence of a second transcriptional activation domain. In contrast to the C-terminal activation domain, the transcriptional activity of this N-terminal region depends on GCN5. We conclude that the yeast Hap4 protein has at least two transcriptional activation domains with strikingly different levels of dependence on specific transcriptional coactivator proteins.
HIF activation by pH-dependent nucleolar sequestration of VHL.	Hypoxia and acidosis occur in a wide variety of physiological and pathological settings that include muscle stress, tumour development and ischaemic disorders. A central element in the adaptive response to cellular hypoxia is HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor), a transcription factor that activates an array of genes implicated in oxygen homeostasis, tumour vascularization and ischaemic preconditioning. HIF is activated by hypoxia, but undergoes degradation by the VHL (von Hippel-Lindau) tumour suppressor protein in the presence of oxygen. Here, we demonstrate that hypoxia induction or normoxic acidosis can neutralize the function of VHL by triggering its nucleolar sequestration, a regulatory mechanism of protein function that is observed rarely. VHL is confined to nucleoli until neutral pH conditions are reinstated. Nucleolar sequestration of VHL enables HIF to evade destruction in the presence of oxygen and activate its target genes. Our findings suggest that an increase in hydrogen ions elicits a transient and reversible loss of VHL function by promoting its nucleolar sequestration.
Pygopus and Legless target Armadillo/beta-catenin to the nucleus to enable its transcriptional co-activator function.	Wnt signalling controls the transcription of genes that function during normal and malignant development. Stimulation by canonical Wnt ligands activates beta-catenin (or Drosophila melanogaster Armadillo) by blocking its phosphorylation, resulting in its stabilization and translocation to the nucleus. Here, Armadillo/beta-catenin binds to TCF/LEF transcription factors and recruits chromatin-modifying and -remodelling complexes to transcribe Wnt target genes. The transcriptional activity of Armadillo/beta-catenin depends on two conserved nuclear proteins recently discovered in Drosophila, Pygopus (Pygo) and Legless/BCL-9 (Lgs). Lgs functions as an adaptor between Pygo and Armadillo/beta-catenin, but how Armadillo/beta-catenin is controlled by Pygo and Lgs is not known. Here, we show that the nuclear localization of Lgs entirely depends on Pygo, which itself is constitutively localized to the nucleus; thus, Pygo functions as a nuclear anchor. Pygo is also required for high nuclear Armadillo levels during Wingless signalling, and together with Lgs increases the transcriptional activity of beta-catenin in APC mutant cancer cells. Notably, linking Armadillo to a nuclear localization sequence rescues pygo and lgs mutant fly embryos. This indicates that Pygo and Lgs function in targeting Armadillo/beta-catenin to the nucleus, thus ensuring its availability to TCF during Wnt signalling.
Precise nucleosome positioning and the TATA box dictate requirements for the histone H4 tail and the bromodomain factor Bdf1.	Acetylation of histone tails plays a key role in chromatin dynamics and is associated with the potential for gene expression. We show here that a 2-3 bp mispositioning of the nucleosome covering the TATA box at PHO5 induces a dependency on the acetylatable lysine residues of the histone H4 N-terminal region and on the TFIID-associated bromodomain factor Bdf1. This dependency arises either through fusion of the PHO5 promoter to a lacZ reporter or by mutation of the TATA box in the natural gene. The results suggest that promoters in which the TATA box is either absent or poorly accessible on the surface of a nucleosome may compensate by using Bdf1 bromodomains and acetylated H4 tails to anchor TFIID to the promoter during the initial stages of transcription activation. We propose that nucleosome positioning at the nucleotide level provides a subtle, but highly effective, mechanism for gene regulation.
Coactivating factors p300 and CBP are transcriptionally crossregulated by Egr1 in prostate cells, leading to divergent responses.	Related coactivators p300 and CBP affect the transcriptional activities of many transcription factors (TF), producing multiple downstream effects. Here we show that immediate early response TF, Egr1, acts upstream of p300/CBP to induce or to repress transcription, depending on the stimulus. Cells induced with serum to increase endogenous Egr1 increase the transcription of p300/CBP only when Egr1 binding sites in the promoter are not mutated, causing the expression of downstream targets of Egr1 which leads to survival and growth. Induction of p300/CBP by Egr1 results in acetylation and stabilization of Egr1 and transactivation of survival genes but repression of Egr1 and p300/CBP in negative feedback loops. In contrast, induction of Egr1 by UV-C irradiation leads to repression of p300/CBP transcription: Egr1 is preferentially phosphorylated, leading to regulation of target genes that cause cell death. This complex balance of opposing effects appears to finely modulate important cellular life and death responses.
The Ras/PKA signaling pathway directly targets the Srb9 protein, a component of the general RNA polymerase II transcription apparatus.	RNA polymerase II transcription is a complex process that is controlled at multiple levels. The data presented here add to this repertoire by showing that signal transduction pathways can directly regulate gene expression by targeting components of the general RNA polymerase II apparatus. In particular, this study shows that the Ras/PKA signaling pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae regulates the activity of the Srb complex, a regulatory group of proteins that is part of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme. Genetic and biochemical data indicate that Srb9p is a substrate for PKA and that this phosphorylation modulates the activity of the Srb complex. The Srb complex, like many components of the RNA II polymerase machinery, is responsible for regulating the expression of a relatively large number of genes. Thus, this type of a transcriptional control mechanism would provide the cell with an efficient way of bringing about broad changes in gene expression.
The intricate workings of a bacterial epigenetic switch.	Bacteria have developed epigenetic mechanisms to control the reversible Off-to-On switching of cell surface structures such as pyelonephritis-associated pili (PAP). The pap pili switch is primarily controlled by the global regulator leucine-responsive regulatory protein (Lrp), the local regulator PapI, and DNA adenine methylase (Dam). There are two sets of binding sites for Lrp in the pap regulatory region: promoter proximal sites 1,2,3 and promoter distal sites 4,5,6. The pilin promoter proximal (GATCprox) and distal (GATCdist) targets for Dam are located within Lrp binding sites 2 and 5, respectively. In the Off state, Lrp binds cooperatively to sites 1,2,3 overlapping the papBA pilin promoter, shutting off pilin transcription, and blocking methylation of GATCprox. Binding of Lrp at sites 1,2,3, together with methylation of GATCdist, reduces the affinity of Lrp for sites 4,5,6, preventing simultaneous binding of Lrp at sites 4,5,6 upstream. Switching to the phase. On state requires the environmentally regulated PapI co-regulator, which increases the affinity of Lrp for sites 5 and 2. PapI binds specifically to Lrp-pap DNA complexes via binding with Lrp as well as contact with DNA sequences within pap sites 5 and 2. Directionality in switching from Off to On appears to be due to methylation of GATCprox, which prevents formation of the PapI-Lrp-pap site 2 ternary complex. A switch model is presented in which DNA replication is proposed to play a critical role by generating a hemimethylated GATCdist site and displacing Lrp from sites 1,2,3. This facilitates methylation of GATCprox and binding of PapI-Lrp to sites 4,5,6, with subsequent activation of pap transcription. The first gene product of the pap operon, PapB, positively regulates papI transcription, resulting in a positive feedback loop that helps maintain the On state. The pap switch is environmentally regulated by a number of factors including the CpxAR two-component regulatory system, the Histone-like nucleoid structuring protein H-NS, and cAMP-Catabolite Gene Activator Protein (CAP), which all involve binding of regulatory binding proteins to pap DNA sequences with subsequent alteration of PapI and Lrp binding. The Pap switch mechanism, with interesting variations, is conserved among a number of enteric bacteria, controlling expression of many unrelated pili-adhesin complexes.
Turning on the machine: genetic control of axon regeneration by c-Jun.	Upregulation of the transcription factor c-Jun has been correlated with axon regeneration after injury in multiple types of neurons. In this issue of Neuron, Raivich et al. use a nervous system-specific mutant to provide genetic evidence that c-Jun is necessary for efficient axon regeneration.
Activin mRNA induced during amygdala kindling shows a spatiotemporal progression that tracks the spread of seizures.	The progressive development of seizures in rats by amygdala kindling, which models temporal lobe epilepsy, allows the study of molecular regulators of enduring synaptic changes. Neurotrophins play important roles in synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. Activin, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily of growth and differentiation factors, has recently been added to the list of candidate synaptic regulators. We mapped the induction of activin betaA mRNA in amygdala and cortex at several stages of seizure development. Strong induction, measured 2 hours after the first stage 2 (partial) seizure, appeared in neurons of the ipsilateral amygdala (confined to the lateral, basal, and posterior cortical nuclei) and insular, piriform, orbital, and infralimbic cortices. Activin betaA mRNA induction, after the first stage 5 (generalized) seizure, had spread to the contralateral amygdala (same nuclear distribution) and cortex, and the induced labeling covered much of the convexity of neocortex as well as piriform, perirhinal, and entorhinal cortices in a nearly bilaterally symmetrical pattern. This pattern had filled in by the sixth stage 5 seizure. Induced labeling in cortical neurons was confined mainly to layer II. A similar temporal and spatial pattern of increased mRNA expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was found in the amygdala and cortex. Activin betaA and BDNF expression patterns were similar at 1, 2, and 6 hours after the last seizure, subsiding at 24 hours; in contrast, c-fos mRNA induction appeared only at 1 hour throughout cortex and then subsided. In double-label studies, activin betaA mRNA-positive neurons were also BDNF mRNA positive, and they did not colocalize with GAD67 mRNA (a marker of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons). The data suggest that activin and BDNF transcriptional activities accurately mark excitatory neurons participating in seizure-induced synaptic alterations and may contribute to the enduring changes that underlie the kindled state.
Hormonal regulation of lactate dehydrogenase-A through activation of protein kinase C pathways in MCF-7 breast cancer cells.	Lactate dehydrogenase A (LDH-A) is hormonally regulated in rodents, and increased expression of LDH-A is observed during mammary gland tumorigenesis. The mechanisms of hormonal regulation of LDH-A were investigated using a series of deletion and mutant constructs derived from the rat LDH-A gene promoter. Results of these studies show that constructs containing the -92 to -37 region of the LDH-A promoter are important for basal and E2-induced transactivation, and mutation of the consensus CRE motif within this region results in significant loss of basal activity and hormone-responsiveness. Gel mobility shift assays using nuclear extracts from MCF-7 cells show that both CREB and ATF-1 interact with the CRE. Studies with kinase inhibitors show that E2-induced activation of this CRE is dependent on protein kinase C, and these data indicate that LDH-A is induced through a non-genomic pathway of estrogen action.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis and glucocorticoid resistance: molecular mechanisms and clinical relevance.	The ability of glucocorticoids (GC) to efficiently kill lymphoid cells has led to their inclusion in essentially all chemotherapy protocols for lymphoid malignancies. This review summarizes recent findings related to the molecular basis of GC-induced apoptosis and GC resistance, and discusses their potential clinical implications. Accumulating evidence suggests that GC may induce cell death via different pathways resulting in apoptotic or necrotic morphologies, depending on the availability/responsiveness of the apoptotic machinery. The former might result from regulation of typical apoptosis genes such as members of the Bcl-2 family, the latter from detrimental GC effects on essential cellular functions possibly perpetuated by GC receptor (GR) autoinduction. Although other possibilities exist, GC resistance might frequently result from defective GR expression, perhaps the most efficient means to target multiple antileukemic GC effects. Numerous novel drug combinations are currently being tested to prevent resistance and improve GC efficacy in the therapy of lymphoid malignancies.
Steroid hormonal regulation of growth, prostate specific antigen secretion, and transcription mediated by the mutated androgen receptor in CWR22Rv1 human prostate carcinoma cells.	CWR22Rv1 (22Rv1) is an androgen-responsive human prostate carcinoma cell line derived from a primary prostate tumor that expresses mutant (H874Y) androgen receptors (AR) and secretes low levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA). In this study, we examined the effects of various androgens and other steroid hormones on proliferation of 22Rv1 cells, PSA secretion, and transactivation. Incubation of 22Rv1 cells with various concentrations of testosterone resulted in a dose-dependent 50-80% increase in growth over 72 h. PSA release and transactivation of PRE2-tk-LUC in 22Rv1 cells were stimulated by low concentrations of natural and synthetic androgens (EC(50)s = 10(-10) to 10(-9)M) and a broad range of other classes of steroid hormones, albeit with lower potency. Uniform positive immunocytochemical staining was observed in 22Rv1 cell nuclei with mouse monoclonal antibodies to human AR. Competitive binding assays indicated that the mutant AR in 22Rv1 cytosol is more promiscuous than a wild-type AR (ARLBD: rat AR ligand binding domain). Testosterone (10(-8)M)-induced PSA release and transactivation were blocked by both antiandrogens and antiprogestins with IC(50)s of 10(-7) to 10(-6)M. At high concentration (10(-6)M), these antagonists showed partial agonist activity in terms of PSA secretion but not transactivation. In conclusion, the mutant AR in 22Rv1 cells binds and responds to low levels of androgens and a wide spectrum of other natural and synthetic steroid hormones, mechanisms proposed to contribute to tumor progression following androgen ablation.
Inducible chronic phase of myeloid leukemia with expansion of hematopoietic stem cells in a transgenic model of BCR-ABL leukemogenesis.	To develop murine models of leukemogenesis, a series of transgenic mice expressing BCR-ABL in different hematopoietic cell subsets was generated. Here we describe targeted expression of P210 BCR-ABL in stem and progenitor cells of murine bone marrow using the tet-off system. The transactivator protein tTA was placed under the control of the murine stem cell leukemia (SCL) gene 3' enhancer. Induction of BCR-ABL resulted in neutrophilia and leukocytosis, and the mice became moribund within 29 to 122 days. Autopsy of sick mice demonstrated splenomegaly, myeloid bone marrow hyperplasia, and extramedullary myeloid cell infiltration of multiple organs. BCR-ABL mRNA and protein were detectable in the affected organs. Fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis demonstrated a significant increase in mature and immature myeloid cells in bone marrow and spleen, together with increased bilineal B220+/Mac-1+ cells in the bone marrow. tTA mRNA was expressed in FACS-sorted hematopoietic stem cells expanded 26-fold after BCR-ABL induction. Thirty-one percent of the animals demonstrated a biphasic phenotype, consisting of neutrophilia and subsequent B-cell lymphoblastic disease, reminiscent of blast crisis. In summary, this mouse model recapitulates many characteristics of human chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and may help elucidate basic leukemogenic mechanisms in CML stem cells during disease initiation and progression.
Capacity of myeloid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells especially at mature stage to express and secrete HLA-G molecules.	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA-G), a class Ib major histocompatibility complex molecule, is potentially relevant in the immune response through its various immune cell functions. Its expression noticed in some malignancies has also been shown on macrophages and dendritic cells (DC) in tumoral and inflammatory diseases. As DC constitute a key component in the immune response, this work aimed at assessing the expression of HLA-G at transcriptional and proteic levels during differentiation and maturation of the different DC subsets. We show that HLA-G transcription was induced during CD34+-derived DC differentiation and is associated with a cell-surface expression in half of cases and with a substantial secretion of soluble HLA-G in all cases. Results were very similar for monocyte-derived DC, but there was still a weak HLA-G cell-surface expression and a lower level of secretion. On the contrary, HLA-G transcription was weak in plasmacytoid DC without any HLA-G cell-surface expression and with a basal level of secretion. The mechanisms involved in HLA-G expression appear transcriptional and post-transcriptional. However, the amount of HLA-G transcripts and the expression of the protein are not related. HLA-G expression or secretion by DC may have negative consequences on the function of effective immune cells and also on DC themselves via the interaction with inhibitory receptors expressed by these cells. The capacity of DC to express or secrete HLA-G should be studied in the context of cellular therapy using DC in addition to its suppressive action in immune response.
Orphan nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner represses hepatocyte nuclear factor 3/Foxa transactivation via inhibition of its DNA binding.	Small heterodimer partner (SHP; NR0B2) is an atypical orphan nuclear receptor and acts as a coregulator of various nuclear receptors. Herein, we examined a novel cross talk between SHP and a forkhead transcription factor HNF3 (hepatocyte nuclear factor 3/Foxa. Transient transfection assay demonstrated that SHP inhibited the transcriptional activity of all three isoforms of HNF3, HNF3alpha, beta, and gamma. In vivo and in vitro protein interaction studies showed that SHP physically interacted with HNF3. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of SHP significantly decreased the mRNA levels of glucose-6-phosphase (G6Pase), cholesterol 7-alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) in HepG2 cells and rat primary hepatocytes. Moreover, the mRNA level of G6Pase was notably increased by down-regulation of SHP with small interfering RNA. Interestingly, HNF3 transactivity was still repressed by SHPDelta128-139 that fails to repress nuclear receptors. Mapping of interaction domain revealed that SHP interacted with forkhead DNA binding domain of HNF3alpha. Gel mobility shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that SHP inhibits DNA binding of HNF3. These results suggest that SHP is involved in the regulation of G6Pase, CYP7A1, and PEPCK gene expression via novel mechanism of inhibition of HNF3 activity and expand the role of SHP as a coregulator of other family of transcription factors in addition to nuclear receptors.
The pituitary-specific transcription factor, Pit-1, can direct changes in the chromatin structure of the prolactin promoter.	The chromatin structure of a promoter is an important determinant of its transcriptional activity. Many promoters are assembled into repressive polynucleosomal arrays that are subsequently remodeled to allow for the activation of gene expression. This study addresses the contribution of a single transcription factor, Pit-1, in orchestrating the chromatin structure of the prolactin gene. Utilizing an in vivo reconstitution system, we found that Pit-1 can bind to multiple sites in the chromatin-assembled 5'-flanking region of the prolactin gene and activate transcription from the chromatin-assembled template. Interestingly, Pit-1 was able to substantially alter micrococcal nuclease digestion of the prolactin 5'-flanking region, and the results are consistent with presence of a translationally positioned nucleosome on the prolactin promoter. Changes in micrococcal nuclease digestion were also observed with a truncated Pit-1 mutant containing only the DNA-binding domain. As the truncation mutant was unable to activate transcription from the chromatin-assembled template, the ability of Pit-1 to alter chromatin structure of the prolactin gene is not dependent on transcriptional activation. We propose that Pit-1 likely plays a role in altering chromatin to facilitate recruitment and subsequent transcriptional activation by additional factors.
Steroid sulfotransferase 2A1 gene transcription is regulated by steroidogenic factor 1 and GATA-6 in the human adrenal.	Sulfonation is a phase II conjugation reaction responsible for the biotransformation of many compounds including steroids, bile acids, and drugs. Humans are presently known to express at least five cytosolic sulfotransferase (SULT) enzymes, of which only two are hydroxysteroid SULT, SULT2A1, commonly known as steroid sulfotransferase, and the cholesterol sulfotransferase SULT2B1. SULT2A1 is highly expressed in the adrenal where it is responsible for the sulfation of hydroxysteroids including conversion of dehydroepiandrosterone to dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and in the liver where it is responsible for sulfation of bile acids and circulating hydroxysteroids. Little is known concerning the transcriptional regulation of human SULT2A1 in adrenal. Herein we demonstrate the role of two transcription factors, steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) and GATA-6, in the regulation of SULT2A1 transcription. These transcription factors were quantified by real-time RT-PCR in normal human adrenal tissue. Transient transfection assays with deleted and mutated SULT2A1 promoter constructs allowed for the determination of specific SF1 and GATA binding cis-regulatory elements necessary for transactivation of SULT2A1 promoter, and binding was confirmed by EMSA analysis. Both SF1 and GATA-6 were positive regulators of SULT2A1 promoter constructs. These data support the hypothesis that adrenal SULT2A1 expression is regulated by SF1 and GATA-6.
CR6-interacting factor 1 interacts with orphan nuclear receptor Nur77 and inhibits its transactivation.	CR6-interacting factor 1 (CRIF1) was recently identified as a nuclear protein that interacts with the Gadd45 (growth arrest and DNA damage inducible 45) family of proteins and participates in the regulation of the G1/S phase of the cell cycle. However, the nuclear action of CRIF1 is largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that CRIF1 acts as a novel coregulator of transactivation of the orphan nuclear receptor Nur77. Both in vitro and in vivo studies show that CRIF1 interacts with Nur77 via the Nur77 AB domain and that it dramatically inhibits the AB domain-mediated transactivation of Nur77. Transient transfection assays demonstrate that CRIF1 inhibits steroid receptor coactivator-2-mediated Nur77 transactivation, and silencing of endogenous CRIF1 by small interfering RNA relieves this repression. CRIF1 possesses intrinsic repressor activities that are not affected by the histone deacetylase inhibitor Trichostatin A. In addition, overexpression of CRIF1 inhibits TSH/protein kinase A-induced Nur-responsive element promoter activity. CRIF1 inhibited Nur77-dependent induction of E2F1 promoter activity, mRNA expression, and Nur77-mediated G1/S progression in cell cycle. These results suggest that CRIF1 acts as a repressor of the orphan nuclear receptor Nur77 by inhibiting AB domain-mediated transcriptional activity.
The roles of Sp1, Sp3, USF1/USF2 and NRF-1 in the regulation and three-dimensional structure of the Fragile X mental retardation gene promoter.	Expansion of a CGG.CCG-repeat tract in the 5'-untranslated region of the FMR1 (Fragile X mental retardation 1) gene causes its aberrant transcription. This produces symptoms ranging from premature ovarian failure and Fragile X associated tremor and ataxia syndrome to FMR syndrome, depending on the size of the expansion. The promoter from normal alleles shows four protein-binding regions in vivo. We had previously shown that in mouse brain extracts two of these sites are bound by USF1/USF2 (upstream stimulatory factors 1 and 2) heterodimers and NRF-1 (nuclear respiratory factor-1). We also showed that these sites are involved in the positive regulation of FMR1 transcription in neuronally derived cells. In the present study, we show that Sp1 (specificity protein 1) and Sp3 are also strong positive regulators of FMR1 promoter activity. We also show that, like Sp1 and E-box-binding proteins such as USF1 and USF2, NRF-1 causes DNA bending, in this case producing a bend of 57 degrees towards the major groove. The combined effect of the four protein-induced bends on promoter geometry is the formation of a highly compact arch-like structure in which the 5' end of the promoter is brought in close proximity to the 3' end. We had previously shown that while point mutations in the GC-boxes decrease promoter activity, deletion of either one of them leads to an increase in promoter activity. We can reconcile these observations with the positive effect of Sp1 and Sp3 if protein-induced bending acts, at least in part, to bring together distally spaced factors important for transcription initiation.
CLOCK is involved in the circadian transactivation of peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) in mice.	PPARalpha (peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor alpha) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes associated with lipid metabolism. In the present study, we show that circadian expression of mouse PPARalpha mRNA requires the basic helix-loop-helix PAS (Per-Arnt-Sim) protein CLOCK, a core component of the negative-feedback loop that drives circadian oscillators in mammals. The circadian expression of PPARalpha mRNA was abolished in the liver of homozygous Clock mutant mice. Using wild-type and Clock-deficient fibroblasts derived from homozygous Clock mutant mice, we showed that the circadian expression of PPARalpha mRNA is regulated by the peripheral oscillators in a CLOCK-dependent manner. Transient transfection and EMSAs (electrophoretic mobility-shift assays) revealed that the CLOCK-BMAL1 (brain and muscle Arnt-like protein 1) heterodimer transactivates the PPARalpha gene via an E-box-rich region located in the second intron. This region contained two perfect E-boxes and four E-box-like motifs within 90 bases. ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) also showed that CLOCK associates with this E-box-rich region in vivo. Circadian expression of PPARalpha mRNA was intact in the liver of insulin-dependent diabetic and of adrenalectomized mice, suggesting that endogenous insulin and glucocorticoids are not essential for the rhythmic expression of the PPARalpha gene. These results suggested that CLOCK plays an important role in lipid homoeostasis by regulating the transcription of a key protein, PPARalpha.
The stem cell pluripotency factor NANOG activates transcription with two unusually potent subdomains at its C terminus.	Embryonic stem cells are pluripotent progenitors for virtually all cell types in our body and thus possess unlimited therapeutic potentials for regenerative medicine. NANOG, an NK-2 type homeodomain gene, has been proposed to play a key role in maintaining stem cell pluripotency presumably by regulating the expression of genes critical to stem cell renewal and differentiation. Here, we provide the evidence that NANOG behaves as a transcription activator with two unusually strong activation domains embedded in its C terminus. First, we identified these two transactivators by employing the Gal4-DNA binding domain fusion and reporter system and named them WR and CD2. Whereas CD2 contains no obvious structural motif, the WR or Trp repeat contains 10 pentapeptide repeats starting with a Trp in each unit. Substitution of Trp with Ala in each repeat completely abolished its activity, whereas mutations at the conserved Ser, Gln, and Asn had relatively minor or no effect on WR activity. We then validated the activities of WR and CD2 in NANOG by constructing a reporter plasmid bearing five NANOG binding sites. Deletion of both WR and CD2 from NANOG completely eliminated its transactivation function. Paradoxically, whereas the removal of CD2 reduced NANOG activity by approximately 30-70%, the removal of WR not only did not diminish but actually enhanced its activity by approximately 50-100% depending on the cell lines analyzed. These data suggest that either WR or CD2 is sufficient for NANOG to function as a transactivator.
Antagonistic interaction between abscisic acid and jasmonate-ethylene signaling pathways modulates defense gene expression and disease resistance in Arabidopsis.	The plant hormones abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), and ethylene are involved in diverse plant processes, including the regulation of gene expression during adaptive responses to abiotic and biotic stresses. Previously, ABA has been implicated in enhancing disease susceptibility in various plant species, but currently very little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. In this study, we obtained evidence that a complex interplay between ABA and JA-ethylene signaling pathways regulate plant defense gene expression and disease resistance. First, we showed that exogenous ABA suppressed both basal and JA-ethylene-activated transcription from defense genes. By contrast, ABA deficiency as conditioned by the mutations in the ABA1 and ABA2 genes, which encode enzymes involved in ABA biosynthesis, resulted in upregulation of basal and induced transcription from JA-ethylene responsive defense genes. Second, we found that disruption of AtMYC2 (allelic to JASMONATE INSENSITIVE1 [JIN1]), encoding a basic helix-loop-helix Leu zipper transcription factor, which is a positive regulator of ABA signaling, results in elevated levels of basal and activated transcription from JA-ethylene responsive defense genes. Furthermore, the jin1/myc2 and aba2-1 mutants showed increased resistance to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum. Finally, using ethylene and ABA signaling mutants, we showed that interaction between ABA and ethylene signaling is mutually antagonistic in vegetative tissues. Collectively, our results indicate that the antagonistic interactions between multiple components of ABA and the JA-ethylene signaling pathways modulate defense and stress responsive gene expression in response to biotic and abiotic stresses.
Gene regulation in hematopoiesis: new lessons from thalassemia.	Over the past fifty years, many advances in our understanding of the general principles controlling gene expression during hematopoiesis have come from studying the synthesis of hemoglobin. Discovering how the alpha and beta globin genes are normally regulated and documenting the effects of inherited mutations which cause thalassemia have played a major role in establishing our current understanding of how genes are switched on or off in hematopoietic cells. Previously, nearly all mutations causing thalassemia have been found in or around the globin loci, but rare inherited and acquired trans-acting mutations are being found with increasing frequency. Such mutations have demonstrated new mechanisms underlying human genetic disease. Furthermore, they are revealing new pathways in the regulation of globin gene expression which, in turn, may eventually open up new avenues for improving the management of patients with common types of thalassemia.
Bcl-2 overexpression leads to increases in suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 expression in B cells and de novo follicular lymphoma.	The t(14;18)(q32;q21), resulting in deregulated expression of B-cell-leukemia/lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2), represents the genetic hallmark in human follicular lymphomas. Substantial evidence supports the hypothesis that the t(14;18) and Bcl-2 overexpression are necessary but not solely responsible for neoplastic transformation and require cooperating genetic derangements for neoplastic transformation to occur. To investigate genes that cooperate with Bcl-2 to influence cellular signaling pathways important for neoplastic transformation, we used oligonucleotide microarrays to determine differential gene expression patterns in CD19+ B cells isolated from Emu-Bcl-2 transgenic mice and wild-type littermate control mice. Fifty-seven genes were induced and 94 genes were repressed by > or =2-fold in Emu-Bcl-2 transgenic mice (P < 0.05). The suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3) gene was found to be overexpressed 5-fold in B cells from Emu-Bcl-2 transgenic mice. Overexpression of Bcl-2 in both mouse embryo fibroblast-1 and hematopoietic cell lines resulted in induction of SOCS3 protein, suggesting a Bcl-2-associated mechanism underlying SOCS3 induction. Immunohistochemistry with SOCS3 antisera on tissue from a cohort of patients with de novo follicular lymphoma revealed marked overexpression of SOCS3 protein that, within the follicular center cell region, was limited to neoplastic follicular lymphoma cells and colocalized with Bcl-2 expression in 9 of 12 de novo follicular lymphoma cases examined. In contrast, SOCS3 protein expression was not detected in the follicular center cell region of benign hyperplastic tonsil tissue. These data suggest that Bcl-2 overexpression leads to the induction of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and to the induction of SOCS3, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of follicular lymphoma.
The maize O2 and PBF proteins act additively to promote transcription from storage protein gene promoters in rice endosperm cells.	A transient expression assay system was employed to investigate the possible use of the maize Opaque 2 (O2) and prolamin box binding factor (PBF) proteins as transcriptional activators of rice and wheat storage protein gene promoters. When assayed in developing rice endosperm cells, either O2 or PBF alone could increase transcription from the promoter of the rice glutelin gene, Gt1. However, mutant forms of O2 and PBF that are defective in DNA binding could not. Co-transfection with both transcriptional activators resulted in an additive increase in transactivation of the Gt1 promoter. Co-bombardment of a Gt1::GUS construct with plasmids expressing the DNA binding domains of O2 and PBF in antisense orientation resulted in a decrease of GUS expression below background levels. Similar stimulatory and additive effects of O2 and PBF could be observed on the promoters from other storage protein genes including rice globulin (Glb), prolamins (RP6 and PG5a) and a wheat glutenin (Bx7). However, responsiveness of the promoters from non-storage protein genes like rice actin and CaMV 35S to O2 and PBF was insignificant. Our results indicate that the maize O2 and PBF proteins can act singly or additively as effective stimulators of heterologous storage protein promoters in developing rice endosperm cells. These data support the use of well-characterized transcription factors from maize as an effective means of increasing the expression level of recombinant proteins in developing rice seeds.
Functional domains of necdin for protein-protein interaction, nuclear matrix targeting, and cell growth suppression.	Necdin is a growth suppressor expressed predominantly in postmitotic neurons. The necdin gene is involved in the etiology of the genomic imprinting-associated neurodevelopmental disorder Prader-Willi syndrome and belongs to the MAGE gene family. All the MAGE family proteins contain a large homology domain termed the MAGE homology domain (MHD). We here characterize the regions of necdin required for the protein-protein interaction, nuclear matrix targeting, and cell growth suppression. The region including entire MHD (amino acids 116-280) of necdin was required for its interaction with p53, while the regions amino acids 144-184 and 191-222 within the MHD were required for both the nuclear matrix targeting and the cell growth suppression of osteosarcoma SAOS-2 cells. The amino-terminal proline-rich acidic region (amino acids 60-100) was also necessary for cell growth suppression. Tetracycline-regulatable overexpression of necdin induced growth arrest of SAOS-2 cells in a reversible manner, and the necdin-overexpressing cells showed a large, flattened morphology with double nuclei. In contrast, a necdin mutant lacking amino acids 191-222 did not induce such changes. These findings suggest that different functions of necdin are mediated via its distinct domains.
The orphan receptor Rev-erbalpha gene is a target of the circadian clock pacemaker.	Rev-erbalpha is a ubiquitously expressed orphan nuclear receptor which functions as a constitutive transcriptional repressor and is expressed in vertebrates according to a robust circadian rhythm. We report here that two Rev-erbalpha mRNA isoforms, namely Rev-erbalpha1 and Rev-erbalpha 2, are generated through alternative promoter usage and that both show a circadian expression pattern in an in vitro system using serum-shocked fibroblasts. Both promoter regions P1 (Rev-erbalpha1) and P2 (Rev-erbalpha2) contain several E-box DNA sequences which function as response elements for the core circadian-clock components: CLOCK and BMAL1. The CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimer stimulates the activity of both P1 and P2 promoters in transient transfection assay by 3-6-fold. This activation was inhibited by the overexpression of CRY1, a component of the negative limb of the circadian transcriptional loop. Critical E-box elements were mapped within both promoters. This regulation is conserved in vertebrates since we found that the CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimer also regulates the zebrafish Rev-erbalpha gene. In line with these data Rev-erbalpha circadian expression was strongly impaired in the livers of Clock mutant mice and in the pineal glands of zebrafish embryos treated with Clock and Bmal1 antisense oligonucleotides. Together these data demonstrate that CLOCK is a critical regulator of Rev-erbalpha circadian gene expression in evolutionarily distant vertebrates and suggest a role for Rev-erbalpha in the circadian clock output.
Transcription regulation by the adaptor protein Fe65 and the nucleosome assembly factor SET.	Fe65 protein interacts with the cytosolic domain of the amyloid precursor APP. Its possible involvement in gene regulation is suggested by numerous observations, including those demonstrating that it activates transcription. Here, we show that the Fe65 transcription activation domain overlaps with the WW domain of Fe65 and binds to the nucleosome assembly factor SET. This protein is required for the Fe65-mediated transactivation of a reporter gene. Two-step chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that a complex including Fe65/AICD/Tip60 and SET is associated with the KAI1 gene promoter. Suppression of SET levels by RNA interference shows that this protein is required for full levels of basal transcription of the KAI1 gene. These results further support the function of Fe65 and APP in gene regulation and show a new role for the SET factor.
Activation of CRABS CLAW in the Nectaries and Carpels of Arabidopsis.	CRABS CLAW (CRC), a member of the YABBY gene family, is required for nectary and carpel development. To further understand CRC regulation in Arabidopsis thaliana, we performed phylogenetic footprinting analyses of 5' upstream regions of CRC orthologs from three Brassicaceae species, including Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic footprinting efficiently identified functionally important regulatory regions (modules), indicating that CRC expression is regulated by a combination of positive and negative regulatory elements in the modules. Within the conserved modules, we identified putative binding sites of LEAFY and MADS box proteins, and functional in vivo analyses revealed their importance for CRC expression. Both expression and genetic studies demonstrate that potential binding sites for MADS box proteins within the conserved regions are functionally significant for the transcriptional regulation of CRC in nectaries. We propose that in wild-type flowers, a combination of floral homeotic gene activities, specifically the B class genes APETALA3 and PISTILLATA and the C class gene AGAMOUS act redundantly with each other and in combination with SEPALLATA genes to activate CRC in the nectaries and carpels. In the absence of B and C class gene activities, other genes such as SHATTERPROOF1/2 can substitute if they are ectopically expressed, as in an A class mutant background (apetala2). These MADS box proteins may provide general floral factors that must work in conjunction with specific factors in the activation of CRC in the nectaries and carpels.
The Inheritance of apomixis in Poa pratensis confirms a five locus model with differences in gene expressivity and penetrance.	The genetic control of apomixis was studied in numerous segregating progenies originated from intercrossing and selfing of obligate sexual and facultative apomictic parents in Poa pratensis by means of the flow cytometric seed screen. The data support a novel model with five major genes required to control asexual seed formation: the Apospory initiator (Ait) gene, the Apospory preventer (Apv) gene, a Megaspore development (Mdv) gene, the Parthenogenesis initiator (Pit) gene, and the Parthenogenesis preventer (Ppv) gene. Differences in expressivity and interactions of these genes are responsible for the wide variation of the mode of reproduction. Apospory and parthenogenesis as well as the initiator and preventer genes of these components segregate independently. The genotypes with the highest expressivity of apospory and parthenogenesis were assigned as Ait-/apvapv/Pit-/ppvppv, those with intermediate expressivity as Ait-/Apv-/Pit-/Ppv-, and those with low expressivity as aitait/apvapv/pitpit/ppvppv. Among the self progenies of obligate sexual individuals, plants with a low capacity for apospory and/or parthenogenesis occurred, indicating that the sexual parents were heterozygous for the preventer genes and homozygous for the recessive initiator alleles (aitait/Apv-/pitpit/Ppv-). The dominant allele Ait exhibits incomplete penetrance. The degree of expressivity of apospory and parthenogenesis was constant among several harvest years of F1 plants.
A NAC domain protein interacts with tomato leaf curl virus replication accessory protein and enhances viral replication.	Geminivirus replication enhancer (REn) proteins dramatically increase the accumulation of viral DNA species by an unknown mechanism. In this study, we present evidence implicating SlNAC1, a new member of the NAC domain protein family from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), in Tomato leaf curl virus (TLCV) REn function. We isolated SlNAC1 using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid technology and TLCV REn as bait, and confirmed the interaction between these proteins in vitro. TLCV induces SlNAC1 expression specifically in infected cells, and this upregulation requires REn. In a transient TLCV replication system, overexpression of SlNAC1 resulted in a substantial increase in viral DNA accumulation. SlNAC1 colocalized with REn to the nucleus and activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast, suggesting that in healthy cells it functions as a transcription factor. Together, these results imply that SlNAC1 plays an important role in the process by which REn enhances TLCV replication.
Hypotonic stress induces E-cadherin expression in cultured human keratinocytes.	Human epidermis marks the interface between internal and external environments with the major task being to maintain body hydration. Alternating exposure of skin to a dry or humid environment is likely to cause changes in the epidermal water gradient resulting in osmotic alterations of epidermal keratinocytes. The present in vitro approach studied the effect of hypotonicity on cell-cell contact. It was demonstrated that hypotonic stress applied to human epithelial cells (HaCaT, A-431) induced upregulation of E-cadherin at both, the protein and mRNA level. 5'-deletional mutants of the E-cadherin promoter identified an element ranging from -53 to +31 that conveyed strong transactivation under hypotonic stress. In order to define relevant upstream regulators members of the MAP kinase family, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and protein kinase B/Akt (PKB/Akt) were investigated. Hypotonic conditions led to a fast activation of ERK1/2, SAPK/JNK, p38, EGFR and PKB/Akt with distinct activation patterns. Experiments using specific inhibitors showed that p38 contributes to the E-cadherin transactivation under hypotonic conditions. Further upstream, adhesion was found to be a prerequisite for E-cadherin transactivation in this model. In summary, the present study provides evidence that E-cadherin is an osmo-sensitive gene that responds to hypotonic stress. The function of this regulation may be found in morphological changes induced by cell swelling. It is likely that induction of E-cadherin contributes to the stabilization between adjacent cells in order to withstand the physical forces induced by hypotonicity.
Characterization of a HCV NS5A protein derived from a patient with hepatoma.	A cDNA encoding hepatitis C virus NS5A protein was isolated from the serum of a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma. The NS5A(HCC) was localized in both the cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions of Huh-7 cells. Immunoprecipitation and electrophoresis experiments showed four major phosphorylated species of NS5A(HCC), p58, p56, p53, and p50. Two mutants (NS5A(HCC-NLSmt) and NS5A(HCC-TSmt)) carrying mutations on the putative nuclear localization signal were engineered. NS5A(HCC-NLSmt) was localized exclusively in the cytoplasm, whereas some forms of NS5A(HCC-TSmt) can be transported into the nucleus. These NS5A(HCC) mutant proteins were capable of transactivating c-fos and SV40 promoters. However, the transactivation efficiency was not dependent on its capability of nuclear localization. Subsequently, interaction between NS5A(HCC) mutants and Grb2 was studied. While capable of transactivating oncogenic promoters, NS5A(HCC-TSmt) could not interact with Grb2. Our results suggested that other cytosolic pathways independent of Grb2-mediated mechanisms were involved in the transactivation activity of HCV NS5A.
A novel autoregulatory mechanism for transcriptional activation of the IL-15 gene by a nonsecretable isoform of IL-15 generated by alternative splicing.	There are several isoforms of interleukin (IL) -15 generated by alternating splicing. We reported previously that alternative IL-15 transgenic (Tg) mice expressing an IL-15 cDNA isoform encoding nonsecretable IL-15 protein had an impaired ability to produce IL-15. In this study, we found that expression of endogenous IL-15 mRNA but not tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA was severely impaired in response to lipopolysaccharide, not only in macrophages from alternative IL-15 Tg mice but also in RAW264.7 cells that had been transfected with alternative IL-15 together with IL-15 receptor alpha (IL-15Ralpha). IL-15 promoter activity was suppressed in the transfected cells. Although nuclear factor-kappaB activation was not impaired, the binding activity of nuclear extracts to the interferon-stimulated response element of the IL-15 promoter region was reduced in RAW264.7 cells, which had been cotransfected with alternative IL-15 and IL-15Ralpha. IL-15 was mainly colocalized with IL-15Ralpha at the cytoplasmic membrane of RAW264.7 cells, which had been cotransfected with normal IL-15, whereas nonsecretable IL-15 was colocalized with IL-15Ralpha in nucleus after cotransfection with alternative IL-15 and IL-15Ralpha. These results suggest that nonsecretable IL-15 generated by alternative splicing suppresses further IL-15 gene transcription, implying a novel autocrine regulatory mechanism for cytokine gene expression by alternative splicing.
Possible involvement of pregnane X receptor-enhanced CYP24 expression in drug-induced osteomalacia.	Vitamin D controls calcium homeostasis and the development and maintenance of bones through vitamin D receptor activation. Prolonged therapy with rifampicin or phenobarbital has been shown to cause vitamin D deficiency or osteomalacia, particularly in patients with marginal vitamin D stores. However, the molecular mechanism of this process is unknown. Here we show that these drugs lead to the upregulation of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)-24-hydroxylase (CYP24) gene expression through the activation of the nuclear receptor pregnane X receptor (PXR; NR1I2). CYP24 is a mitochondrial enzyme responsible for inactivating vitamin D metabolites. CYP24 mRNA is upregulated in vivo in mice by pregnenolone 16alpha-carbonitrile and dexamethasone, 2 murine PXR agonists, and in vitro in human hepatocytes by rifampicin and hyperforin, 2 human PXR agonists. Moreover, rifampicin increased 24-hydroxylase activity in these cells, while, in vivo in mice, pregnenolone 16alpha-carbonitrile increased the plasma concentration of 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3). Transfection of PXR in human embryonic kidney cells resulted in rifampicin-mediated induction of CYP24 mRNA. Analysis of the human CYP24 promoter showed that PXR transactivates the sequence between -326 and -142. We demonstrated that PXR binds to and transactivates the 2 proximal vitamin D-responsive elements of the human CYP24 promoter. These data suggest that xenobiotics and drugs can modulate CYP24 gene expression and alter vitamin D(3) hormonal activity and calcium homeostasis through the activation of PXR.
A molecular window on sleep: changes in gene expression between sleep and wakefulness.	Sleep is thought to be "by the brain and for the brain," but despite decades of behavioral and neurophysiologic research, we still do not know why the brain actually needs to sleep. Recently, gene expression studies have allowed researchers to investigate the molecular correlates of sleep and wakefulness and to gain new insights into the benefits that sleep may bring at the cellular level. In the latest series of studies, a genome-wide screening of brain gene expression was performed in rats that had been asleep, spontaneously awake, or sleep deprived for 8 hours. It was found that of approximately 15,000 transcripts expressed in the cerebral cortex, about 5% change their expression levels depending on behavioral state but independently of time of day. Half of the modulated genes increase in wakefulness and half in sleep. Moreover, wakefulness-related and sleep-related transcripts belong to different functional categories. Waking-related transcripts are involved in energy metabolism, excitatory neurotransmission, transcriptional activation, synaptic potentiation and memory acquisition, and the response to cellular stress. Sleep-related transcripts are involved in brain protein synthesis, synaptic consolidation/depression, and membrane trafficking and maintenance, including cholesterol metabolism, myelin formation, and synaptic vesicle turnover.
Effective production of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA) with Erwinia herbicola cells carrying a mutant transcriptional regulator TyrR.	The enzymatic production of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA) using Erwinia herbicola cells involves the action of tyrosine phenol-lyase (Tpl, EC 4.1.99.2). Since Tpl is only synthesized under L-tyrosine-induced conditions, the addition of L-tyrosine to the medium is unavoidable when preparing cells (the enzyme source), but severely impedes the pure preparation of the final product L-DOPA. We circumvented this problem by using recombinant E. herbicola cells carrying a mutant transcriptional regulator TyrR, which is capable of activating the tpl promoter in the absence of L-tyrosine.
Prolonged beta-catenin stabilization and tcf-dependent transcriptional activation in hyperplastic cutaneous wounds.	Mesenchymal cells that accumulate during the proliferative phase of wound healing and that are present in hyperplastic wounds share cytologic similarities with the cells from fibroproliferative lesions in which there is activation of beta-catenin-mediated transcription. Re-excision wounds from a previous biopsy and samples from hyperplastic cutaneous wounds were studied along with normal tissues. During normal wound healing, there was an increase in beta-catenin protein level, peaking 4 weeks following the insult and returning towards baseline level by 12 weeks. Hyperplastic wounds exhibited a prolonged duration of elevated beta-catenin, lasting more than 2 years following the initial injury. The level of expression of genes known to be upregulated in the proliferative phase of wound healing (alpha-smooth muscle actin and type three collagen), correlated with beta-catenin protein level. The phosphorylation level of glycogen synthase kinase-3-beta, a kinase important for beta-catenin protein destabilization, correlated with beta-catenin protein level. Beta-catenin was transcriptionally active in these wounds as demonstrated by the expression of the beta-catenin target genes (MMP-7 and FN) and by activation of a tcf-reporter in primary cell cultures. Beta-catenin stabilization increases cell proliferation and motility in fibroblasts in vitro, and likely has a similar function during its transient elevation in the proliferative phase of normal wound healing. In hyperplastic wounds, there is dysregulation of beta-catenin, maintaining the mesenchymal cells in a prolonged proliferative state. As such, beta-catenin likely plays a central role in mesenchymal cells during the healing process, and is an appealing therapeutic target for disorders of wound healing.
Nuclear oncoprotein prothymosin alpha is a partner of Keap1: implications for expression of oxidative stress-protecting genes.	Animal cells counteract oxidative stress and electrophilic attack through coordinated expression of a set of detoxifying and antioxidant enzyme genes mediated by transcription factor Nrf2. In unstressed cells, Nrf2 appears to be sequestered in the cytoplasm via association with an inhibitor protein, Keap1. Here, by using the yeast two-hybrid screen, human Keap1 has been identified as a partner of the nuclear protein prothymosin alpha. The in vivo and in vitro data indicated that the prothymosin alpha-Keap1 interaction is direct, highly specific, and functionally relevant. Furthermore, we showed that Keap1 is a nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling protein equipped with a nuclear export signal that is important for its inhibitory action. Prothymosin alpha was able to liberate Nrf2 from the Nrf2-Keap1 inhibitory complex in vitro through competition with Nrf2 for binding to the same domain of Keap1. In vivo, the level of Nrf2-dependent transcription was correlated with the intracellular level of prothymosin alpha by using prothymosin alpha overproduction and mRNA interference approaches. Our data attribute to prothymosin alpha the role of intranuclear dissociator of the Nrf2-Keap1 complex, thus revealing a novel function for prothymosin alpha and adding a new dimension to the molecular mechanisms underlying expression of oxidative stress-protecting genes.
Transcriptional events in a clinical model of oral mucosal tissue injury and repair.	Tissue injury in the oral mucosa activates a cascade of transcriptional events important during the healing process that are not yet clearly defined. To characterize these events and identify potential gene targets for future studies, we used cDNA expression arrays in a clinical model of tissue injury. Mucosal biopsies were taken before third molar extraction, 2-4 hours postoperatively, or at 48 hours. Hybridization patterns were analyzed and validated using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Prior to extraction, the biopsied mucosal tissues were characterized by a panoply of genes that were constitutively expressed. After injury, analysis revealed differential expression of genes involved in transcription, inflammation, and remodeling. At 2-4 hours after injury, genes such as Fos, Jun, and early growth response protein were up-regulated, while genes responsible for intercellular adhesion were down-regulated. At 48 hours after injury, the gene profile had shifted toward tissue remodeling. Here we identify genes constitutively expressed in normal oral mucosa and transcriptional events following mucosal tissue injury, which may be useful in identifying new therapeutic targets.
Role of integration host factor in the transcriptional activation of flagellar gene expression in Caulobacter crescentus.	In the Caulobacter crescentus predivisional cell, class III and IV flagellar genes, encoding the extracytoplasmic components of the flagellum, are transcribed in the nascent swarmer compartment. This asymmetric expression pattern is attributable to the compartmentalized activity of the sigma54-dependent transcriptional activator FlbD. Additionally, these temporally transcribed flagellar promoters possess a consensus sequence for the DNA-binding protein integration host factor (IHF), located between the upstream FlbD binding site and the promoter sequences. Here, we deleted the C. crescentus gene encoding the beta-subunit of the IHF, ihfB (himD), and examined the effect on flagellar gene expression. The DeltaihfB strain exhibited a mild defect in cell morphology and impaired motility. Using flagellar promoter reporter fusions, we observed that expression levels of a subset of class III flagellar promoters were decreased by the loss of IHF. However, one of these promoters, fliK-lacZ, exhibited a wild-type cell cycle-regulated pattern of expression in the absence of IHF. Thus, IHF is required for maximal transcription of several late flagellar genes. The DeltaihfB strain was found to express significantly reduced amounts of the class IV flagellin, FljL, as a consequence of reduced transcriptional activity. Our results indicate that the motility defect exhibited by the DeltaihfB strain is most likely attributable to its failure to accumulate the class IV-encoded 27-kDa flagellin subunit, FljL.
Role of basic region leucine zipper transcription factors cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB), CREB2, activating transcription factor 2 and CAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha in cyclic AMP response element-mediated transcription.	The transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), a member of the basic region leucine zipper (bZIP) family of proteins, is the major cAMP response element (CRE) binding. Other bZIP proteins, including CREB2, activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2), or CAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) have been reported to transactivate CRE-containing genes or to interfere with transactivation by CREB. We have designed a simple transactivation assay using expression of either a constitutively active CREB mutant or a nuclear targeted mutant of the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. In both cases, a striking stimulation of transcription of CRE-containing reporter genes was observed in noradrenergic locus coeruleus-like CATH.a cells. In addition, a constitutively active mutant of ATF2 specifically transactivated a secretogranin II promoter/luciferase reporter gene, but had no effect on the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter. In contrast, CREB2 and C/EBPalpha did not transactivate CRE-containing reporter genes, indicating that these bZIP proteins target distinct genetic elements. Experiments involving dominant-negative bZIP mutants revealed that CREB does not heterodimerize with CREB2, ATF2, c-Jun or C/EBP. Rather, CREB and ATF2 compete for binding to the CRE, and are independently able to up-regulate transcription of genes containing CRE motifs in their regulatory regions.
A new recurrent inversion, inv(7)(p15q34), leads to transcriptional activation of HOXA10 and HOXA11 in a subset of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias.	Chromosomal translocations with breakpoints in T-cell receptor (TCR) genes are recurrent in T-cell malignancies. These translocations involve the TCRalphadelta gene (14q11), the TCRbeta gene (7q34) and to a lesser extent the TCRgamma gene at chromosomal band 7p14 and juxtapose T-cell oncogenes next to TCR regulatory sequences leading to deregulated expression of those oncogenes. Here, we describe a new recurrent chromosomal inversion of chromosome 7, inv(7)(p15q34), in a subset of patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by CD2 negative and CD4 positive, CD8 negative blasts. This rearrangement juxtaposes the distal part of the HOXA gene cluster on 7p15 to the TCRbeta locus on 7q34. Real time quantitative PCR analysis for all HOXA genes revealed high levels of HOXA10 and HOXA11 expression in all inv(7) positive cases. This is the first report of a recurrent chromosome rearrangement targeting the HOXA gene cluster in T-cell malignancies resulting in deregulated HOXA gene expression (particularly HOXA10 and HOXA11) and is in keeping with a previous report suggesting HOXA deregulation in MLL-rearranged T- and B cell lymphoblastic leukemia as the key factor in leukaemic transformation. Finally, our observation also supports the previous suggested role of HOXA10 and HOXA11 in normal thymocyte development.
A highly conserved cysteine in the v-Myb DNA-binding domain is essential for transformation and transcriptional trans-activation.	The v-Myb protein is nuclear, binds to DNA in a sequence-specific fashion, regulates the transcription of various reporter gene and transforms myelomonocytic cells. Cysteine is one of the most conserved residues during protein evolution and has been implicated in DNA binding, protein-protein interaction and redox regulation of various proteins. Therefore, we have now individually substituted each of the seven cysteines of v-Myb with a serine. All seven mutant proteins bound to DNA when they were expressed in E. coli. However, mutant C65S neither trans-activated transcription in vivo nor transformed myeloid cells, although it was transported into the nucleus. This cysteine is conserved in the Myb-related proteins of animals, plants, yeast and the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The C65S mutation and a nearby codon insertion mutation also abolished trans-activation by fusion proteins containing the v-Myb DNA-binding domain and the strong constitutive activation domain of herpes simplex virus (HSV) VP16. Because this domain of VP16 appears to activate transcription whenever it is bound upstream of an appropriate promoter, these results imply that C65 may be required for high-affinity DNA binding in vivo. In support of this hypothesis, we have also shown that, in contrast to wild-type v-Myb, mutant C65S is unable to block transcription from a reporter gene in which Myb binding sites overlap the initiation site.
YB-1 represses AP1-dependent gene transactivation and interacts with an AP-1 DNA sequence.	Involvement of the AP-1 (activator protein-1) transcription factor has been demonstrated previously in the regulation of cell proliferation and cell-cycle progression, in the control of cell migration, invasion and metastasis, and in signal transduction, stress responsiveness, DNA replication and DNA repair. YB-1 (Y-box-binding protein-1) has also been implicated in many of these processes. However, the mechanism by which YB-1 mediates these processes is poorly understood. In the present study, we report that overexpression of a transfected gene encoding YB-1 in human HeLa cervical carcinoma cells significantly represses the transactivation of a minimal AP-1 reporter construct in response to the tumour promoter PMA. YB-1 also represses mRNA expression and PMA-induced promoter transactivation of the endogenous AP-1 target gene encoding matrix metalloproteinase-12 (metalloelastase). YB-1 transrepression of both the minimal and matrix metalloproteinase-12 promoter reporter constructs is dependent on the AP-1 sequence. To identify new nuclear proteins that bind specifically to the AP-1 DNA-binding site, we devised a DNA-affinity-chromatography-based assay termed NAPSTER (nucleotide-affinity preincubation specificity test of recognition) and discovered a 49 kDa protein from human cancer cells that binds in a sequence-specific manner to the AP-1 DNA sequence. By tandem MS fragmentation sequencing analyses we determined that p49 is a YB-1. Immunoblotting of the NAPSTER-purified p49 protein using anti-YB-1 antibodies confirmed YB-1 binding to the AP-1 DNA sequence, as did gel mobility-supershift assays using YB-1 antibodies. This is the first report of YB-1 transrepression and interaction at the AP-1 DNA-binding site.
Cell-cycle-dependent regulation of the human and mouse Tome-1 promoters.	Tome-1, which refers to a trigger of mitotic entry 1, mediates the destruction of the mitosis-inhibitory kinase, Wee1, via the E3 ligase, SCF. In turn, Tome-1 itself is targeted for degradation by APC in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. In the present study, we analyzed the human and mouse Tome-1 promoter regions. Using synchronized cultures of NIH3T3 cells transfected with Tome-1 promoter/luciferase constructs, we showed that the promoter activity of Tome-1 is activated at the G2/M phase. Using various Tome-1 promoter/luciferase constructs, we showed that the CCAAT box located upstream of the transcription initiation site is important for the basal promoter activity. We identified a repressor element (cell-cycle-dependent element/cell cycle gene homology region) in the vicinity of the transcription start site, and mutations within this element diminished the cell-cycle-dependent transcriptional regulation of Tome-1.
Bruton's tyrosine kinase regulates immunoglobulin promoter activation in association with the transcription factor Bright.	Bright (B-cell regulator of immunoglobulin heavy chain transcription) binding to immunoglobulin heavy chain loci after B-cell activation is associated with increased heavy chain transcription. Our earlier reports demonstrated that Bright coimmunoprecipitates with Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) and that these proteins associate in a DNA-binding complex in primary B cells. B cells from immunodeficient mice with a mutation in Btk failed to produce stable Bright DNA-binding complexes. In order to determine if Btk is important for Bright function, a transcription activation assay was established and analyzed using real-time PCR technology. Cells lacking both Bright and Btk were transfected with Bright and/or Btk along with an immunoglobulin heavy chain reporter construct. Immunoglobulin gene transcription was enhanced when Bright and Btk were coexpressed. In contrast, neither Bright nor Btk alone led to activation of heavy chain transcription. Furthermore, Bright function required both Btk kinase activity and sequences within the pleckstrin homology domain of Btk. Bright was not appreciably phosphorylated by Btk; however, a third tyrosine-phosphorylated protein coprecipitated with Bright. Thus, the ability of Bright to enhance immunoglobulin transcription critically requires functional Btk.
p21WAF1/CIP1 selectively controls the transcriptional activity of estrogen receptor alpha.	Estrogen receptors (ER) are ligand-dependent transcription factors that regulate growth, differentiation, and maintenance of cellular functions in a wide variety of tissues. We report here that p21WAF1/CIP1, a cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor, cooperates with CBP to regulate the ERalpha-mediated transcription of endogenous target genes in a promoter-specific manner. The estrogen-induced expression of the progesterone receptor and WISP-2 mRNA transcripts in MCF-7 cells was enhanced by p21WAF1/CIP1, whereas that of the cyclin D1 mRNA was reduced and the pS2 mRNA was not affected. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that p21WAF1/CIP1 was recruited simultaneously with ERalpha and CBP to the endogenous progesterone receptor gene promoter in an estrogen-dependent manner. Experiments in which the p21WAF1/CIP1 protein was knocked down by RNA interference showed that the induction of the expression of the gene encoding the progesterone receptor required p21WAF1/CIP1, in contrast with that of the cyclin D1 and pS2 genes. p21WAF1/CIP1 induced not only cell cycle arrest in breast cancer cells but also milk fat globule protein and lipid droplets, indicators of the differentiated phenotype, as well as cell flattening and increase of the volume of the cytoplasm. These results indicate that p21WAF1/CIP1, in addition to its Cdk-regulatory role, behaves as a transcriptional coactivator in a gene-specific manner implicated in cell differentiation.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of adaptor protein 3BP2 induces T cell receptor-mediated activation of transcription factor.	Molecular adaptors/scaffolds have indispensable roles in the activation of lymphocytes. In this report, we have demonstrated the role of tyrosine phosphorylation of an adaptor protein 3BP2 (c-Abl-SH3 domain binding protein-2, also known as SH3BP2) in T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated activation of transcription factor. Short interfering RNA for 3BP2 suppresses the expression level of endogenous 3BP2 and inhibits TCR-mediated activation of interleukin (IL)-2 promoter and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) element. Engagement of TCR induces tyrosine phosphorylation and lipid raft translocation of 3BP2. The overexpression studies reveal that substitution of 3BP2-Tyr(183), Tyr(446), or Arg(486) in the SH2 domain suppresses TCR-mediated activation of NFAT. Point mutations of 3BP2 cannot affect the translocation of 3BP2 into the lipid raft. Phosphorylation of Tyr(183) is required for the interaction with Vav1, the guanine nucleotide exchanging factor of Rac1. In fact, overexpression of dominant-negative form of Rac1 inhibits TCR-mediated activation of NFAT. Phosphorylation of Tyr(446) recruits the SH2 domain of Lck for the optimal activation of transcription factors. Furthermore, point mutation of Arg(486) in the 3BP2-SH2 domain that couples ZAP-70 to LAT dramatically reduces NFAT activation. These results suggest that the site-directed functions of 3BP2 induce the activation of transcription factors.
Protein kinase C phosphorylation modulates N- and C-terminal regulatory activities of the PITX2 homeodomain protein.	PKC phosphorylation regulates PITX2 DNA binding and transcriptional activity. Mutation of individual PKC sites demonstrates the functional regulation of PITX2 through phosphorylation. Immunoprecipitation of PITX2 and a PITX2 PKC mutant protein reveal specific in vivo phosphorylation by PKC in transfected cells. The transcriptional activity of PITX2 is negatively regulated by N-terminal phosphorylation and positively regulated by C-terminal phosphorylation. We demonstrate a mechanism of increased PITX2 transcriptional activation through protein interactions facilitated by phosphorylation of the PITX2 C-terminal tail. Phosphorylation of the PITX2 C terminus enhances the interaction with cellular factors. In corroboration with the PITX2 PKC functional studies, a newly identified C-terminal PITX2 mutation associated with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome (ARS) demonstrates reduced phosphorylation. This mutation (PITX2 DeltaT1261) creates a frameshift mutation in codon 227 resulting in 11 novel amino acids downstream followed by premature truncation of the protein. Three PKC sites in the C-terminal tail and OAR domain are deleted, which results in decreased transcriptional activation. PITX2 DeltaT1261 is unable to interact with a cellular factor to synergistically activate transcription and demonstrates the first link of ARS with defective PITX2 protein interactions. Gene expression profiling of homozygous Pitx2 mutant mouse tissue reveals decreased Dlx2 expression as a potential molecular basis for developmental defects associated with ARS patients. Overall, phosphorylation imparts another level of regulation to the activity of the PITX2 homeodomain protein during development.
Transcriptional activity of male gamete-specific histone gcH3 promoter in sperm cells of Lilium longiflorum.	Histones are essential for packaging of eukaryotic genomic DNA in nucleosomes, and histone gene expression is normally coupled with DNA synthesis. Some of the flowering plant histone genes show strictly male gamete-specific expression. However, mechanisms underlying their male gamete-specific expression have not been elucidated so far. Here we report the isolation of the male gamete-specific histone gcH3 promoter from Lilium longiflorum and its activity in the male gametic cell of the flowering plant. The OCT motif, which is well conserved in plant histone promoters regulating S phase-specific expression, is not conserved in the gcH3 promoter. Instead sequence motifs identical to GC box 1 and GC box 2, the transcriptional activator and suppressor for mammalian testis-specific histone H1t, are present in the gcH3 promoter, suggesting that plants and animals share the mechanism which governs the specificity of gene expression in male gametic cells. Male gamete-specific activation of the gcH3 promoter has been confirmed by microprojectile bombardment in lily pollen. The sperm cell carrying gold particles showed reporter gene expression, while green fluorescent protein (GFP) was absent in the other sperm cell which had no particles, confirming that the gcH3 promoter is activated in the male gametic cell, and sperm cells have transcriptional and translational machinery that is independent of the vegetative cell of pollen.
Expression patterns of c-myb and of v-myb induced myeloid-1 (mim-1) gene during the development of the chick embryo.	The v-myb oncogene of the acute avian leukemia virus E26 encodes a transcription factor that directly regulates the promyelocyte-specific mim-1 gene (Ness, S.A., Marknell, A. and Graf, T. Cell, 59, 1115-1125). We have investigated the relationship between the c-myb proto-oncogene and the transcription of the mim-1 gene both in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate that the c-myb protein can transactivate the transcription of mim-1 in a transient transfection assay. In the chick embryo, we confirm that mim-1 is specifically expressed during granulopoiesis and we show that the expression of c-myb and mim-1 are perfectly correlated in the granulocytic spleen and pancreas. However we suggest that mim-1 is efficiently transcribed in the absence of c-myb in the yolk sac and in the promyelocytes at the onset of the colonization of the bursa of Fabricius. On the other hand c-myb transcripts detected in the early hemopoietic progenitor cells, in lymphoid cells and in proliferative epithelia are never associated with mim-1 transcription. We conclude that the granulocyte-specific mim-1 gene is regulated by c-myb-dependent and c-myb-independent mechanisms depending upon the environment in which granulocytic precursor cells differentiate.
The GC box and TATA transcription control elements in the P38 promoter of the minute virus of mice are necessary and sufficient for transactivation by the nonstructural protein NS1.	To further define the transcriptional regulation of the P38 promoter in the minute virus of mice (MVM) genome, we constructed a series of internal deletion and linker scanning mutations. The mutant P38 constructs were assayed for transcriptional activity in vitro by primer extension analysis with nuclear extracts from murine A92L fibroblasts. Mutations which disrupted the GC box and TATA box severely reduced transcription in vitro. DNase I footprinting analysis confirmed that the murine transcription factor Sp1 bound to the GC box; however, no factors were observed interacting with a putative transcriptional activation regulatory element, termed the TAR element. The linker scanning mutations were analyzed in vivo by using a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase expression assay system, in both the presence and absence of constructs expressing the viral nonstructural protein, NS1. The ability of NS1 to transactivate the P38 promoter (up to 1,000-fold) depended entirely on the presence of intact GC and TATA box sequences. Disruption of the TAR element by either linker insertion mutations or an internal deletion did not inhibit transactivation of the P38 promoter. These results suggest that NS1 transactivates the P38 promoter indirectly by interacting with one or more components of the P38 core-transcription complex.
Synergistic activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 promoter by the viral Tat protein and cellular transcription factor Sp1.	We have previously shown that the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein can activate a synthetic promoter containing consensus-binding sites for the cellular transcription factor Sp1. In this report, we show that a GAL-Tat fusion protein targeted via GAL4 DNA-binding sites can also trans activate an HIV-1 LTR promoter independently of the trans-activation response region. To show that the trans activation of the promoter by Tat directly involves the Sp1 protein, we have targeted a GAL-Sp1 fusion protein to the long terminal repeat promoter via upstream GAL4-binding sites. In the presence of Tat and GAL-Sp1, the promoter is synergistically trans activated at the transcriptional level, indicating that Tat and Sp1 functionally interact to trans activate the HIV-1 promoter. The Sp1 synergism is relatively specific, since another chimeric transcriptional activator, GAL-VP16, does not appear to be significantly synergistic with Tat.
Effects of mechanistically distinct NF-kappaB inhibitors on glial inducible nitric-oxide synthase expression.	Nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB is an important regulator of inflammatory gene expression. Transcriptional regulation of Nos2, the inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) gene, is complex and not fully understood, but appears to be regulated in part by NF-kappaB. To further understand the role of NF-kappaB in Nos2 expression, we compared three functionally distinct NF-kappaB inhibitors on NF-kappaB transactivation and iNOS induction by rat C6 glial cells. Cytokine-induced activation of a consensus NF-kappaB-reporter gene was concentration-dependently inhibited by BAY 11-7082, MG-132, and helenalin. The rank order of potency was MG-132>helenalin>BAY 11-7082, with low concentrations of helenalin stimulating reporter gene activity. Cytokine-stimulated iNOS expression, measured by nitrite accumulation and in vitro l-citrulline production, was similarly reduced by exposing C6 cells to the NF-kappaB inhibitors. Surprisingly, activation of Nos2-reporter gene constructs containing the proximal 188 bp (containing one kappaB site) or proximal 94 bp (no kappaB site) of the rat promoter also was inhibited with the same rank order of potency. Interestingly, low concentrations of helenalin increased activity of both promoter constructs, while BAY 11-7082 poorly inhibited the 94-bp activity. This is the first report describing BAY 11-7082 and helenalin effects on iNOS expression in astroglia. Given the reported mechanism of actions for these inhibitors, cytokine-induced glial iNOS expression appears more sensitive to disruption of proteasome degradation and p65 function than modulation of IkappaB phosphorylation. These findings may foster the design of therapeutic agents aimed at NF-kappaB-associated pathways involved in neuroinflammation, especially iNOS expression.
A novel modulator domain of Ets transcription factors.	The ets gene family is composed of several oncogenes and codes for transcription factors. The Ets proteins have a similar sequence called the ets domain and bind to the core motif A/CGGAA. We show here that several members of the ets family have different trans-activating properties. The ets domain of Ets-1 is required for DNA binding. Adjacent to this domain there is a novel element that inhibits DNA binding. It appears to alter the structure of the DNA-binding domain before it interacts with DNA. There is a similar sequence in Ets-2 that also inhibits DNA binding. This sequence is absent in alternative splice products of h-Ets-1. PU1, the most distantly related member of the ets gene family, lacks this novel element. It has a distinct DNA-binding specificity that is determined by DNA sequences outside the core motif. These results have important implications for both the oncogenic and normal functions of ets family members.
Akt phosphorylates Tal1 oncoprotein and inhibits its repressor activity.	The helix-loop-helix transcription factor Tal1 is required for blood cell development and its activation is a frequent event in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The Akt (protein kinase B) kinase is a key player in transduction of antiapoptotic and proliferative signals in T cells. Because Tal1 has a putative Akt phosphorylation site at Thr90, we investigated whether Akt regulates Tal1. Our results show that Akt specifically phosphorylates Thr90 of the Tal1 protein within its transactivation domain in vitro and in vivo. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed the presence of Tal1 in Akt immune complexes, suggesting that Tal1 and Akt physically interact. We further showed that phosphorylation of Tal1 by Akt causes redistribution of Tal1 within the nucleus. Using luciferase assay, we showed that phosphorylation of Tal1 by Akt decreased repressor activity of Tal1 on EpB42 (P4.2) promoter. Thus, these data indicate that Akt interacts with Tal1 and regulates Tal1 by phosphorylation at Thr90 in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent manner.
Targeting Stat3 in cancer therapy.	Stat3 is constitutively activated in many human cancers where it functions as a critical mediator of oncogenic signaling through transcriptional activation of genes encoding apoptosis inhibitors (e.g. Bcl-x(L), Mcl-1 and survivin), cell-cycle regulators (e.g. cyclin D1 and c-Myc) and inducers of angiogenesis (e.g. vascular endothelial growth factor). This article reviews several approaches that have been pursued for targeting Stat3 in cancer therapy including antisense strategies, tyrosine kinase inhibition, decoy phosphopeptides, decoy duplex oligonucleotides and G-quartet oligodeoxynucleotides (GQ-ODN). The GQ-ODN strategy is reviewed in somewhat greater detail than the others because it includes a novel system that effectively delivers drug into cells and tissues, addresses successfully the issue of specificity of targeting Stat3 versus Stat1, and has demonstrated efficacy in vivo.
Duplication of Stat5-binding sites within the beta-lactoglobulin promoter compromises transcription in vivo.	Achieving high and reliable levels of expression is essential for biotechnological application of transgene technology. In an attempt to maximise transgene expression, we analysed the effect of adding extra Stat5-binding sites, while maintaining their spatial arrangement, to the beta-lactoglobulin promoter. A 195 bp-fragment comprising the three Stat5-binding sites in the beta-lactoglobulin promoter was duplicated directly upstream, 88 bp or 177 bp upstream from the original site. We assessed the effect that addition of extra Stat5-binding sites had in transcriptional activation and chromatin structuring of the promoter, both in vitro in HC11 cells and in vivo in transgenic animals. Duplication of Stat5-binding sites in the beta-lactoglobulin promoter did favour chromatin remodelling in vivo but unexpectedly did not enhance transcriptional activation of the transgene, despite the higher basal and induced expression levels achieved in vitro in HC11 cells. Furthermore, the well-described positive relationship between beta-lactoglobulin transgene copy number and mammary expression was lost in the new lines. These results indicate that chromatin remodelling upon Stat5 binding is not sufficient to activate transgene expression, denote that strategies to achieve transgenic transcriptional activation are not obvious.
Transcriptional activity of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 LTR promoter in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	We have analyzed the transcriptional activity of the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) LTR promoter in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe (S.pombe). The ability of a series of 5'-deleted forms of the HIV-1 LTR promoter to direct transcription of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene was studied. We found that the HIV-1 promoter is functional in S.pombe and that deletion of sequences upstream of the NF-kB binding site previously identified to contain the negative regulatory element (NRE) in mammalian cells, resulted in about thirty-fold increase in transcriptional activity. Sequences in the HIV-1 promoter that bind NF-kB were found to be essential for transcriptional activation in S.pombe. In mammalian cells, transactivation of the HIV-1 LTR requires TAR sequences and the viral Tat protein. In fission yeast, Tat failed to transactivate the HIV-1 LTR, suggesting that S.pombe may lack a cellular factor(s) required for the Tat transactivation process.
Splicing of the Drosophila P element ORF2-ORF3 intron is inhibited in a human cell extract.	P element transposition in Drosophila melanogaster is regulated by germline-specific splicing of the P element ORF2-ORF3 intron. This regulation has been shown to depend on a cis-acting sequence located in the exon 12-31 bases from the 5' splice site. Mutations within this sequence disrupt the regulation and result in splicing of the ORF2-ORF3 intron in all tissues, indicating that the sequence is required to inhibit splicing of this intron in the soma. We now show that a trans-acting factor in a human (HeLa) cell extract can inhibit splicing of the intron, suggesting that this regulatory mechanism is conserved from flies to humans.
A functional hepatitis B virus X protein produced in insect cells.	We have constructed a recombinant baculovirus from Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus, called AcX, that expresses the gene encoding the hepatitis B virus X protein in infected Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf21AE) insect cells. A 16.5-kDa monomer and a 33-kDa dimer of the X protein were detected in extracts from AcX-infected cells on immunoblots using a polyclonal anti-X antibody. The biological activity of the insect cell-produced X protein was assayed by fusing AcX-infected Sf21AE cells with African green monkey kidney (CV-1) cells and then transfecting the fused cells with the reporter plasmid pSV2cat. The expression of the cat gene in CV-1:Sf21AE(AcX) fusions was seven times higher than that derived from CV-1:Sf21AE(AcMNPV) fusions, indicating that the insect cell-produced X protein was functional. The transactivation function of the insect cell-produced X protein was also verified by scrape-loading nuclear extracts of AcX-infected Sf21AE cells into pSV2cat-transfected CV-1 cells. Treatment of the AcX-infected cell nuclear extracts with anti-X antisera prior to scrape-loading eliminated the transactivating activity of the extracts. We conclude that the insect cell-produced X protein was functionally identical to that generated in mammalian cells.
A probabilistic dynamical model for quantitative inference of the regulatory mechanism of transcription.	Quantitative estimation of the regulatory relationship between transcription factors and genes is a fundamental stepping stone when trying to develop models of cellular processes. This task, however, is difficult for a number of reasons: transcription factors' expression levels are often low and noisy, and many transcription factors are post-transcriptionally regulated. It is therefore useful to infer the activity of the transcription factors from the expression levels of their target genes.
A GABRB3 promoter haplotype associated with childhood absence epilepsy impairs transcriptional activity.	Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) is considered to exhibit a complex non-Mendelian pattern of inheritance. So far, only few CAE susceptibility genes have been identified. In a previous study of our group, an association between the GABA(A) receptor beta3 subunit (GABRB3) gene and CAE was shown. To further investigate this association, we screened 45 CAE patients of the first study for mutations in the 10 exons, the exon-intron boundaries and the regulatory sequences of GABRB3. Although we found no functionally relevant mutation, we did identify 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the GABRB3 gene region from the exon 1a promoter to the beginning of intron 3. Using these SNPs we defined four haplotypes for the respective GABRB3 gene region. A transmission disequilibrium test in the same 45 CAE patients and their parents indicated a significant association of this region and CAE (P=0.007075). Reporter gene assays in NT2 cells using exon 1a promoter constructs indicated that the disease-associated haplotype 2 promoter causes a significantly lower transcriptional activity than the haplotype 1 promoter that is over-represented in the controls. In silico analysis suggested that an exchange from T (haplotype 1) to C (haplotype 2) within this promoter impairs binding of the neuron-specific transcriptional activator N-Oct-3. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that the respective polymorphism reduces the nuclear protein binding affinity, thus explaining the results of the reporter gene assays. Reduced expression of the GABRB3 gene could therefore be one potential cause for the development of CAE, pathogenetically relevant in our patient group.
Turnover of hepatitis B virus X protein is facilitated by Hdj1, a human Hsp40/DnaJ protein.	Hepatitis B virus X (HBX) protein is required for the productive infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in vivo and implicated in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. We have previously shown that hTid-1 and Hdj1, the human Hsp40/DnaJ chaperone proteins, bind the HBV core protein and inhibit viral replication in cell culture system. Here, we report evidences to suggest that HBX is the major target of Hdj1 in the inhibition of HBV replication. Expression of Hdj1 in cultured human hepatoma HepG2 cells facilitated degradation of HBX by the proteasome pathway, and thereby inhibited replication of the wild-type HBV as well as that of the HBX-deficient mutant virus rescued by HBX supplied in trans. Mutational analyses indicated that J domain of Hdj1 is required for the process. These results might provide a molecular basis for the antiviral effect of cellular chaperones.
Casein kinase 2 associates with initiation-competent RNA polymerase I and has multiple roles in ribosomal DNA transcription.	Mammalian RNA polymerase I (Pol I) complexes contain a number of associated factors, some with undefined regulatory roles in transcription. We demonstrate that casein kinase 2 (CK2) in human cells is associated specifically only with the initiation-competent Pol Ibeta isoform and not with Pol Ialpha. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis places CK2 at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) promoter in vivo. Pol Ibeta-associated CK2 can phosphorylate topoisomerase IIalpha in Pol Ibeta, activator upstream binding factor (UBF), and selectivity factor 1 (SL1) subunit TAFI110. A potent and selective CK2 inhibitor, 3,8-dibromo-7-hydroxy-4-methylchromen-2-one, limits in vitro transcription to a single round, suggesting a role for CK2 in reinitiation. Phosphorylation of UBF by CK2 increases SL1-dependent stabilization of UBF at the rDNA promoter, providing a molecular mechanism for the stimulatory effect of CK2 on UBF activation of transcription. These positive effects of CK2 in Pol I transcription contrast to that wrought by CK2 phosphorylation of TAFI110, which prevents SL1 binding to rDNA, thereby abrogating the ability of SL1 to nucleate preinitiation complex (PIC) formation. Thus, CK2 has the potential to regulate Pol I transcription at multiple levels, in PIC formation, activation, and reinitiation of transcription.
VIP is a transcriptional target of Nurr1 in dopaminergic cells.	The orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 is required for the development of the ventral mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. These are the same neurons that are invariantly lost in patients with Parkinson's disease. Nurr1 mRNA expression is not confined to the developing midbrain, and yet Nurr1 appears to be essential for either the maturation of progenitors into fully post-mitotic dopaminergic neurons and/or once formed, their survival. The function of Nurr1 in the transactivation of gene(s) important for neuronal development and/or maintenance is uncharacterized. To characterize potential downstream target genes of Nurr1, we sought to identify mRNAs that are differentially affected by Nurr1 expression. Using a dopaminergic cell line in which Nurr1 content was tightly regulated, differential display analysis identified transcripts altered by Nurr1 expression, including the mRNA encoding vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). Herein, we demonstrate that Nurr1 regulates VIP mRNA and protein levels, and transactivates the VIP promoter through Nurr1-responsive cis elements. In addition, dopaminergic cells release and utilize VIP to mediate survival when challenged with paraquat. Nurr1 regulation of VIP is also demonstrated in vivo as loss of Nurr1 function results in diminished VIP mRNA levels within the developing midbrain.
Direct evidence for the role of centrosomally localized p53 in the regulation of centrosome duplication.	Abnormal amplification of centrosomes is the major cause of mitotic defects and chromosome instability in cancer cells. Centrosomes duplicate once in each cell cycle, and abrogation of the regulatory mechanism underlying centrosome duplication leads to centrosome amplification. p53 tumor suppressor protein is involved in the regulation of centrosome duplication: loss of p53 as well as expression of certain p53 mutants result in deregulated centrosome duplication and centrosome amplification. p53 at least in part depends on its transactivation function to control centrosome duplication, primarily via upregulation of p21 cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor, which prevents untimely activation of CDK2/cyclin E, a key initiator of centrosome duplication. However, numerous studies have shown the presence of p53 at centrosomes, yet the role of the centrosomally localized p53 in the regulation of centrosome duplication had been enigmatic. Here, we comparatively examined wild-type p53 and p53 mutants that are transactivation(+)/centrosome-binding(-), transactivation(-)/centrosome-binding(+) and transactivation(-)/centrosome-binding(-) for their abilities to control centrosome duplication. We found that the transactivation(+)/centrosome-binding(-) and transactivation(-)/centrosome-binding(+) mutants suppress centrosome duplication only partially compared with wild-type p53. Moreover, the transactivation(-)/centrosome-binding(-) mutant almost completely lost the ability to suppress centrosome duplication. These observations provide direct evidence for the centrosomally localized p53 to participate in the regulation of centrosome duplication in a manner independent of its transactivation function in addition to its transactivation-dependent regulation of centrosome duplication.
Transformation of adult retina from the regenerative to the axonogenesis state activates specific genes in various subsets of neurons and glial cells.	The purpose of this study was to identify the gene expression profile of the regenerating retina in vitro. To achieve this goal, three experimental groups were studied: (1) an injury control group (OC-LI group) that underwent open crush (OC) of the optic nerve and lens injury (LI) in vivo; (2) an experimental group (OC-LI-R group) that comprised animals treated like those in the OC-LI group except that retinal axons were allowed to regenerate (R) in vitro; and (3) an experimental group (OC-LI-NR group) that comprised animals treated as those in the OC-LI group, except that the retinas were cultured in vitro with the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) layer facing upwards to prevent axonal regeneration (NR). Gene expression in each treatment group was compared to that of untreated controls. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine whether expression of differentially regulated genes also occurred at the protein level and to localize these proteins to the respective retinal cells. Genes that were regulated belonged to different functional categories such as antioxidants, antiapoptotic molecules, transcription factors, secreted signaling molecules, inflammation-related genes, and others. Comparison of changes in gene expression among the various treatment groups revealed a relatively small cohort of genes that was expressed in different subsets of cells only in the OC-LI-R group; these genes can be considered to be regeneration-specific. Our findings demonstrate that axonal regeneration of RGC involves an orchestrated response of all retinal neurons and glia, and could provide a platform for the development of therapeutic strategies for the regeneration of injured ganglion cells.
A unique insertion/duplication in the VDR gene that truncates the VDR causing hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-resistant rickets without alopecia.	Hereditary vitamin D resistant rickets (HVDRR) is caused by mutations in the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Here we describe a patient with HVDRR who also exhibited some hypotrichosis of the scalp but otherwise had normal hair and skin. A 102 bp insertion/duplication was found in the VDR gene that introduced a premature stop (Y401X). The patient's fibroblasts expressed the truncated VDR, but were resistant to 1,25(OH)2D3. The truncated VDR weakly bound [3H]-1,25(OH)2D3 but was able to heterodimerize with RXR, bind to DNA and interact with the corepressor hairless (HR). However, the truncated VDR failed to bind coactivators and was transactivation defective. Since the patient did not have alopecia or papular lesions of the skin generally found in patients with premature stop mutations this suggests that this distally truncated VDR can still regulate the hair cycle and epidermal differentiation possibly through its interactions with RXR and HR to suppress gene transactivation.
Transcriptional analysis of the gum gene cluster from Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae.	Genome sequence analysis of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae KACC10331 provides insight into the X. oryzae gum gene cluster that is composed of 14 open-reading frames (ORFs), designated gumB, -C, -D, -E, -F, -G, -H, -I, -J, -K, -L, -M, XOO3167, and -N. We analyzed the transcriptional linkage of the X. oryzae gum gene cluster by using RT-PCR. Analyses of the gum gene cluster by RT-PCR with the wild-type and mutant strains, which carried a deletion of the promoter-like region upstream of gumB or an insertion of the rrnB transcriptional terminator into the gumF gene, revealed that the ORFs of this gene cluster were transcribed as polycistronic mRNA, from gumB to gumN, and the secondary promoter was located upstream of gumG. Taken together, these results suggest that the genes of this cluster constitute an operon expressed from overlapping transcripts.
Promoter polymorphisms in the plasma glutathione peroxidase (GPx-3) gene: a novel risk factor for arterial ischemic stroke among young adults and children.	Plasma glutathione peroxidase (GPx-3)-deficiency increases extracellular oxidant stress, decreases bioavailable nitric oxide, and promotes platelet activation. The aim of this study is to identify polymorphisms in the GPx-3 gene, examine their relationship to arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) in a large series of children and young adults, and determine their functional molecular consequences.
MicroRNAs preferentially target the genes with high transcriptional regulation complexity.	Over the past few years, microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as a new prominent class of gene regulatory factors that negatively regulate expression of approximately one-third of the genes in animal genomes at post-transcriptional level. However, it is still unclear why some genes are regulated by miRNAs but others are not, i.e. what principles govern miRNA regulation in animal genomes. In this study, we systematically analyzed the relationship between transcription factors (TFs) and miRNAs in gene regulation. We found that the genes with more TF-binding sites have a higher probability of being targeted by miRNAs and have more miRNA-binding sites on average. This observation reveals that the genes with higher cis-regulation complexity are more coordinately regulated by TFs at the transcriptional level and by miRNAs at the post-transcriptional level. This is a potentially novel discovery of mechanism for coordinated regulation of gene expression. Gene ontology analysis further demonstrated that such coordinated regulation is more popular in the developmental genes.
FOXM1c and Sp1 transactivate the P1 and P2 promoters of human c-myc synergistically.	We have previously shown that FOXM1c transactivates the c-myc P1 and P2 promoters via their TATA-boxes by a new transactivation mechanism, namely by directly binding to the P1 and P2 TATA-boxes and to TBP, TFIIA, and TFIIB. We now confirm this surprising mechanism by demonstrating that FOXM1c transactivates the human c-myc P1 and P2 promoters synergistically with Sp1, a transcription factor known to bind and transactivate these two promoters. This synergism requires the P1 or P2 TATA-boxes as well as the respective Sp1-binding sites. Moreover FOXM1c binds directly to Sp1. Cooperative DNA binding, if it should occur, is not sufficient for synergism of Sp1 and FOXM1c at P1, but their contacts to multiple components of the basal transcription complex (TFIID, TFIIA, TFIIB) seem to be essential. However, FOXM1c does not synergize with Sp1 if it transactivates via its conventional binding site.
Action of NF-kappaB on the delta opioid receptor gene promoter.	The G protein-coupled delta opioid receptor gene (dor) is temporally and spatially expressed during development. The DOR receptor plays important roles in diverse biological processes, including pain control, immune functions, and cell survival. We previously found that PI3K/Akt/NF-kappaB signaling is important in the regulation of dor gene expression during nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation of PC12h cells, which prompted us to examine whether NF-kappaB p65 is directly or indirectly involved in the regulation of dor promoter activity. In this study, deletional and functional analysis of the dor promoter revealed a 94-bp NGF-responsive fragment upstream of the dor promoter region and involvement of NF-kappaB in regulating the promoter activity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that NF-kappaB p65 is directly bound to the dor promoter and such binding is related to NGF/PI3K signaling. Together, the results show that direct association of p65 with the promoter is important in NGF-induced dor promoter activity.
Active transcription promotes single-stranded oligonucleotide mediated gene repair.	The lambda-Red-mediated recombination has been exploited as an efficient means for DNA manipulation. We previously reported that replication plays a pivotal role during this process. Replication direction dictates strand bias, such that single stranded oligonucleotide (SSO) with sequence corresponding to the nascent lagging strand directs higher levels of recombinant formation compared to its complementary SSO. In addition, the Escherichia coli methyl-directed mismatch repair system impedes efficient SSO-mediated site-specific gene repair. However, the role of transcription in determining strand bias and recombination efficiency is unclear. To address the potential role of transcriptional processes, we constructed plasmid substrates that harbor a mutant antibiotic reporter under the control of an inducible promoter. We found that transcription activation can promote recombinant formation to more than 10-folds whilst it has negligible effect on strand bias. Our findings provide evidence for a role of transcription in SSO-mediated gene repair process.
Nucleolar remodeling in nuclear transfer embryos.	Transcription of the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes occurs in the nucleolus and results in ribosome biogenesis. The rRNA gene activation and the associated nucleolus formation may be used as a marker for the activation of the embryonic genome in mammalian embryos and, thus serve to evaluate the developmental potential of embryos originating from varied nuclear transfer protocols. In bovine in vivo developed embryos, functional ribosome-synthesizing nucleoli become structurally distinct toward the end of the 4th post-fertilization cell cycle. In embryonic cell nuclear transfer embryos, fully developed nucleoli are not apparent until the 5th cell cycle, whereas in somatic cell nuclear transfer embryos the functional nucleoli emerge already during the 3rd cell cycle. Intergeneric reconstructed embryos produced by the fusion of bovine differentiated somatic cell to a nonactivated ovine cytoplast fail to develop fully functional nucleoli. In bovine in vivo developed embryos, a range of important nucleolar proteins (e.g., topoisomerase I, upstream binding factor and RNA polymerase I, fibrillarin, nucleophosmin and nucleolin) become localized to the nucleolar anlage over several cell cycles. This relocation is completed toward the end of the 4th cell cycle. A substantial proportion of bovine embryos produced by nuclear transfer of embryonic or somatic cells to bovine ooplasts display aberrations in protein localization in one or more blastomers. This information is indicative of underlying aberrations in genomic reprogramming and may help to explain the abnormalities observed in a proportion of fetuses and offspring derive from nuclear transfer embryos.
Activated Notch1 interacts with p53 to inhibit its phosphorylation and transactivation.	We propose a biochemical mechanism for the negative role of Notch signaling on p53 transactivation function. Expression of the intracellular domain of human Notch1 (Notch1-IC) inhibits the expression of p53-responsive genes p21, mdm2, and bax in HCT116 p53(-/-) cells. Furthermore, Notch1-IC expression inhibits the phosphorylation of ectopically expressed p53 in HCT116 p53(-/-) cells as well as the phosphorylation of endogenous p53 in UV-treated HCT116 p53(+/+) cells. Transcriptional downregulation of p53-responsive genes by Notch1-IC was confirmed both by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay and Northern blot analysis. We found the intracellular interaction between Notch1-IC and p53 in HCT116 p53(+/+) cells and suggest that activated Notch1 interaction with p53 is an important cellular event for the inhibition of p53-dependent transactivation. The N-terminal fragment of Notch1-IC, which can interacts with p53, inhibits p53 phosphorylation and represses p53 transactivation. In addition, Notch signaling downregulated p53-dependent apoptosis induced by UV irradiation.
An HIV feedback resistor: auto-regulatory circuit deactivator and noise buffer.	Animal viruses (e.g., lentiviruses and herpesviruses) use transcriptional positive feedback (i.e., transactivation) to regulate their gene expression. But positive-feedback circuits are inherently unstable when turned off, which presents a particular dilemma for latent viruses that lack transcriptional repressor motifs. Here we show that a dissipative feedback resistor, composed of enzymatic interconversion of the transactivator, converts transactivation circuits into excitable systems that generate transient pulses of expression, which decay to zero. We use HIV-1 as a model system and analyze single-cell expression kinetics to explore whether the HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) uses a resistor to shut off transactivation. The Tat feedback circuit was found to lack bi-stability and Tat self-cooperativity but exhibited a pulse of activity upon transactivation, all in agreement with the feedback resistor model. Guided by a mathematical model, biochemical and genetic perturbation of the suspected Tat feedback resistor altered the circuit's stability and reduced susceptibility to molecular noise, in agreement with model predictions. We propose that the feedback resistor is a necessary, but possibly not sufficient, condition for turning off noisy transactivation circuits lacking a repressor motif (e.g., HIV-1 Tat). Feedback resistors may be a paradigm for examining other auto-regulatory circuits and may inform upon how viral latency is established, maintained, and broken.
Growth factor independence-1 (Gfi-1) plays a role in mediating specific granule deficiency (SGD) in a patient lacking a gene-inactivating mutation in the C/EBPepsilon gene.	Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency (SGD) is a rare congenital disorder marked by recurrent bacterial infections. Neutrophils from SGD patients lack secondary and tertiary granules and their content proteins and lack normal neutrophil functions. Gene-inactivating mutations in the C/EBPepsilon gene have been identified in 2 SGD patients. Our studies on a third SGD patient revealed a heterozygous mutation in the C/EBPepsilon gene. However, we demonstrate elevated levels of C/EBPepsilon and PU.1 proteins in the patient's peripheral blood neutrophils. The expression of the transcription factor growth factor independence-1 (Gfi-1), however, was found to be markedly reduced in our SGD patient despite the absence of an obvious mutation in this gene. This may explain the elevated levels of both C/EBPepsilon and PU.1, which are targets of Gfi-1 transcriptional repression. We have generated a growth factor-dependent EML cell line from the bone marrow of Gfi-1(+/-) and Gfi-1(+/+) mice as a model for Gfi-1-deficient SGD, and demonstrate that lower levels of Gfi-1 expression in the Gfi-1(+/-) EML cells is associated with reduced levels of secondary granule protein (SGP) gene expression. Furthermore, we demonstrate a positive role for Gfi-1 in SGP expression, in that Gfi-1 binds to and up-regulates the promoter of neutrophil collagenase (an SGP gene), in cooperation with wild-type but not with mutant C/EBPepsilon. We hypothesize that decreased Gfi-1 levels in our SGD patient, together with the mutant C/EBPepsilon, block SGP expression, thereby contributing to the underlying etiology of the disease in our patient.
Application of a yeast estrogen screen in non-biomarker species Varicorhinus barbatulus fish with two estrogen receptor subtypes to assess xenoestrogens.	Xenoestrogens can interfere with normal estrogen signaling by competitively binding to the estrogen receptor (ER) and activating transcription of target genes. In this study, we cloned the estrogen receptor alpha (vbERalpha) and beta 2 (vbERbeta2) genes from liver of the indigenous Taiwanese cyprinid fish Varicorhinus barbatulus and tested the direct impact of several xenoestrogens on these ERs. Transcriptional activity of xenoestrogens was measured by the enzymatic activity of estrogen responsive element (ERE)-containing beta-galactosidase in a yeast reporter system. The xenoestrogens tested were phenol derivatives, DDT-related substances, phthalic acid esters, and polychlorinated biphenyls, with 17beta-estradiol (E2) as a subjective standard. The phenol derivatives [4-nonylphenol (4-NP), 4-t-octylphenol (4-t-OP) and bisphenol A (BPA)] exhibited significant dose-dependent responses in both ligand potency and ligand efficiency. Consistent with yeast assays using human or rainbow trout ERs, we observed a general subtype preference in that vbERalpha displayed higher relative potencies and efficiencies than vbERbeta2, although our assays induced a stronger response for xenoestrogens than did human or trout ERs. Whereas 4-NP and 4-t-OP have similar EC50 values relative to E2 for both ER subtypes, the strong estrogenic response of BPA markedly differentiates vbERalpha from vbERbeta2, suggesting possible species-specific BPA sensitivity. We report that the ameliorative yeast tool is readily applicable for indigenous wildlife studies of the bio-toxic influence of xenoestrogens with wildlife-specific estrogen receptors.
Endogenous expression of an anti-TAR aptamer reduces HIV-1 replication.	An anti-TAR RNA aptamer called R06, which binds tightly and specifically to the trans-activation responsive (TAR) element of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) through loop-loop interactions has been previously selected.(1) We used HIV-based retroviral vectors to express the R06 aptamer. Its synthesis was driven by the U16 snoRNA. We investigated the ability of this cassette to interfere with TAR-mediated transcription using HeLa P4 cells stably expressing the beta-galactosidase gene under the control of the HIV-1 5'LTR. We demonstrated that, upon HIV-1 infection, the beta-galactosidase activity was reduced in cells expressing the nucleolar U16-R06 transcript. The replication of HIV-1 in these cells was also reduced as shown by quantification of the HIV-1 protease gene 24 h post-infection. This effect was specific and related to the formation of R06 TAR complex as an aptamer with a mutated loop, which was no longer able to bind to TAR, did not show any effect. The nucleolus is likely a compartment of interest for targeting the TAR-protein complex responsible for the trans-activation of transcription of the HIV-1 genome.
Impact of mutant p53 functional properties on TP53 mutation patterns and tumor phenotype: lessons from recent developments in the IARC TP53 database.	The tumor suppressor gene TP53 is frequently mutated in human cancers. More than 75% of all mutations are missense substitutions that have been extensively analyzed in various yeast and human cell assays. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) TP53 database (www-p53.iarc.fr) compiles all genetic variations that have been reported in TP53. Here, we present recent database developments that include new annotations on the functional properties of mutant proteins, and we perform a systematic analysis of the database to determine the functional properties that contribute to the occurrence of mutational "hotspots" in different cancer types and to the phenotype of tumors. This analysis showed that loss of transactivation capacity is a key factor for the selection of missense mutations, and that difference in mutation frequencies is closely related to nucleotide substitution rates along TP53 coding sequence. An interesting new finding is that in patients with an inherited missense mutation, the age at onset of tumors was related to the functional severity of the mutation, mutations with total loss of transactivation activity being associated with earlier cancer onset compared to mutations that retain partial transactivation capacity. Furthermore, 80% of the most common mutants show a capacity to exert dominant-negative effect (DNE) over wild-type p53, compared to only 45% of the less frequent mutants studied, suggesting that DNE may play a role in shaping mutation patterns. These results provide new insights into the factors that shape mutation patterns and influence mutation phenotype, which may have clinical interest.
Sumoylation and proteasomal activity determine the transactivation properties of the mineralocorticoid receptor.	MR is a hormone-activated transcription factor that carries a strong synergy inhibitory function at its N-terminus. Using this region as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screening, we isolated major components of the sumoylation pathway, including the SUMO-1-conjugating enzyme Ubc9, and SUMO-1 itself. We found that MR interacts with both, Ubc9 and SUMO-1 in mammalian cells, and that the receptor is sumoylated at four acceptor sites which are clustered within its AF-1 domain. We observed that MR can be poly-ubiquitinated and that proteasome activity is essential for MR-activated transcription. Disruption of the SUMO-1 attachment sites abolished MR sumoylation but interfered with neither the poly-ubiquitination of the receptor nor its transactivation potential on MMTV. However, the hormone-activated mutant displayed enhanced synergistic potential on a compound promoter and delayed mobility in the nucleus. FRAP analysis further showed that proteasome inhibition immobilizes a subpopulation of unliganded MR receptors in the nucleus, a phenomenon that is significantly attenuated in the presence of aldosterone. Interestingly, the ability of the hormone to counteract the immobilizing effect of MG132 requires the sumoylation-competent form of MR. Moreover, increasing exogenously SUMO-1 cellular levels resulted in a selective, dose-dependent inhibition of the activity of the sumoylation-deficient MR. This effect was observed only on a synergy-competent promoter, revealing a mode for negative regulation of synergy that might involve sumoylation of factors different from MR. The data suggest that the overall transcriptional activity of MR can be modulated by its sumoylation potential as well as the sumoylation level of MR-interacting proteins, and requires the continuous function of the proteasome.
PTHrP P3 promoter activity in breast cancer cell lines: role of Ets1 and CBP (CREB binding protein).	Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) is produced by many tumors including breast cancer. We have reported that Ets1 factor activates P3 PTHrP promoter in our model of tumorigenic breast cancer cell and not in pre- or non-tumorigenic cell lines, thus contributing to an increased PTHrP production. In this study, gel retardation assays revealed that Etsl and its promoter binding site (EBS) specifically formed complexes whose abundance correlates with Ets1 levels in the three cell lines. Coexpression of Etsl and CBP induced a synergistic activation of the P3 promoter only in the tumorigenic cell line. This synergism required the integrity of the EBS and was abrogated by E1A. All breast cancer cell lines showed high basal concentrations of phosphorylated CREB. Moreover a CRE-like sequence was also required for Ets1/CBP synergy and, finally, CREB expression was found to enhance the PTHrP P3 promoter activity. Thus a multipartite complex of transcription factors and coactivators seems to regulate PTHrP transcription and contribute to the alterations that promote tumorigenic behavior in breast epithelial cells.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 phosphorylates hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha and mediates its destabilization in a VHL-independent manner.	Hypoxia-inducible transcription factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is a key player in the response to hypoxia. Additionally, HIF-1alpha responds to growth factors and hormones which can act via protein kinase B (Akt). However, HIF-1alpha is not a direct substrate for this kinase. Therefore, we investigated whether the protein kinase B target glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) may have an impact on HIF-1alpha. We found that the inhibition or depletion of GSK-3 induced HIF-1alpha whereas the overexpression of GSK-3beta reduced HIF-1alpha. These effects were mediated via three amino acid residues in the oxygen-dependent degradation domain of HIF-1alpha. In addition, mutation analyses and experiments with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL)-defective cells indicated that GSK-3 mediates HIF-1alpha degradation in a VHL-independent manner. In line with these observations, the inhibition of the proteasome reversed the GSK-3 effects, indicating that GSK-3 may target HIF-1alpha to the proteasome by phosphorylation. Thus, the direct regulation of HIF-1alpha stability by GSK-3 may influence physiological processes or pathophysiological situations such as metabolic diseases or tumors.
Retinopathy mutations in the bZIP protein NRL alter phosphorylation and transcriptional activity.	The transcription factor neural retina leucine zipper (NRL) is required for rod photoreceptor differentiation during mammalian retinal development. NRL interacts with CRX, NR2E3, and other transcription factors and synergistically regulates the activity of photoreceptor-specific genes. Mutations in the human NRL gene are associated with retinal degenerative diseases. Here we report functional analyses of 17 amino acid variations and/or mutations of NRL. We show that 13 of these lead to changes in NRL phosphorylation. Six mutations at residues p.S50 (c.148T>A, c.148T>C, and c.149C>T) and p.P51 (c.151C>A, c.151C>T, and c.152C>T), identified in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, result in a major NRL isoform that exhibits reduced phosphorylation but enhanced activation of the rhodopsin promoter. The truncated NRL mutant proteins-p.L75fs (c.224_225insC) and p.L160fs (c.459_477dup)-do not localize to the nucleus because of the absence of bZIP domain. The p.L160P (c.479T>C), p.L160fs, and p.R218fs (c.654delC) mutant proteins do not bind to the NRL-response element, as revealed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. These three and p.S225N (c.674G>A) mutant show reduced transcriptional activity and may contribute to recessive disease. The p.P67S (c.199C>T) and p.L235F (c.703C>T) variations in NRL do not appear to directly cause retinitis pigmentosa, while p.E63K (c.187G>A), p.A76V (c.227C>T), p.G122E (c.365G>A), and p.H125Q (c.375C>G) are of uncertain significance. Our results support the notion that gain-of-function mutations in the NRL gene cause autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa while loss-of-function NRL mutations lead to autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. We propose that differential phosphorylation of NRL fine-tunes its transcriptional regulatory activity, leading to a more precise control of gene expression.
Uncoupling of hormone-dependence from chaperone-dependence in the L701H mutation of the androgen receptor.	The mechanisms underlying androgen receptor (AR)-mediated progression of prostate cancer following androgen ablation have yet to be fully determined. On this basis we screened naturally occurring mutants of human AR for hormone-independent activity using a yeast model system. An initial screen of 43 different mutants revealed that ARs having a Leu701His mutation (AR(L701H)) exhibited hormone-independent activation of a lacZ reporter gene. The AR(L701H) mutant bound dihydrotestosterone to a similar extent as did wild type AR, although its ability to be induced by hormone for transactivation was reduced substantially. Subsequent studies focused on the dependence of AR(L701H) on molecular chaperones for folding to the active state. We found that AR(L701H) was highly dependent on Hsp90 for its hormone-independent activation, suggesting that this chaperone functions in AR(L701H) folding. However, the mutant did not respond specifically to increased levels of FKBP52, suggesting that this chaperone functions at the hormone-dependent activation stage in the folding process. Further studies of AR(L701H) in PC3 cells suggested that this mutant is prohibited from hormone-independent transactivation in mammalian cells. However, basal expression of a reporter gene by AR(L701H) was not impaired by the presence of 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin as was wild type AR, suggesting differential interactions of these receptors with molecular chaperones in animal cells.
Rat leucine-rich protein binds and activates the promoter of the beta isoform of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II gene.	We previously found the neuronal cell-type specific promoter and binding partner of the beta isoform of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (beta CaM kinase II) in rat brain [Donai, H., Morinaga, H., Yamauchi, T., 2001. Genomic organization and neuronal cell type specific promoter activity of beta isoform of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II of rat brain. Mol. Brain Res. 94, 35-47]. In the present study, we purified a protein that binds specifically a promoter region of beta CaM kinase II gene from a nuclear extract of the rat cerebellum using DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, ammonium sulfate fractionation, gel filtration and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The purified protein was identified as rat leucine-rich protein 157 (rLRP157) using tandem mass spectrometry. Then, we prepared its cDNA by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from poly(A)(+)RNA of rat cerebellum. The rLRP157 cDNA was introduced into mouse neuroblastomaxrat glioma hybrid NG108-15 cells, and cells stably expressing rLRP157 (NG/LRP cells) were isolated. Binding of rLRP157 with the promoter sequence was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay using nuclear extract of NG/LRP cells. A luciferase reporter gene containing a promoter of beta CaM kinase II was transiently expressed in NG/LRP cells. Under the conditions, the promoter activity was enhanced about 2.6-fold in NG/LRP cells as compared with wild-type cells. The expression of rLRP157 mRNA was paralleled with that of beta CaM kinase II in the adult and embryo rat brain detected by in situ hybridization. Nuclear localization of rLRP157 was confirmed using GFP-rLRP157 fusion protein investigated under a confocal microscope. These results indicate that rLRP157 is one of the proteins binding to, and regulating the activity of, the promoter of beta CaM kinase II.
Comparative genomic and functional analyses reveal a novel cis-acting PTEN regulatory element as a highly conserved functional E-box motif deleted in Cowden syndrome.	Germline mutations in PTEN, encoding a phosphatase on 10q23, cause Cowden syndrome (CS) and Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRRS). Approximately, 10% of CS-related PTEN mutations occur in the PTEN promoter and 11% of BRRS-related mutations include large deletions, often favoring the gene's 5' end (exon 1, promoter). In order to better understand the mechanism(s) underlying the deregulation of PTEN in these syndromes, it is important that functional cis-regulatory elements be identified. We employed a comparative genomic approach combined with molecular genetic techniques to identify a highly conserved sequence upstream of the PTEN promoter, sharing 80% sequence identity among Homo sapiens, Mus musculus and Rattus norvegicus. Within this region, we identified a canonical E-box sequence (CACGTG) located at position -2181 to -2176, approximately 800 bp upstream of the PTEN core promoter and more than 1.1 kb upstream of its minimal promoter region (located at -958 to -821). In vitro assays suggest that this motif is recognized by members of the basic region-helix-loop-helix-leucine-zipper (bHLH-LZ) transcription factor family, USF1 and USF2, and reporter assays indicate that this novel E-box is involved in mediating PTEN transcriptional activation. Four of 30 CS/CS-like patients, without previously identified PTEN mutations, were found with germline deletions of the E-box element. Of the four, three had deletions stretching to exon 1, but not 3' of it; importantly, one classic CS patient harbored a germline deletion localizing to this E-box region, further affirming the role of this element in PTEN's regulation and deregulation, and its contribution to the pathogenesis of CS.
Characterization of the promoter of the gene encoding human tripeptidyl-peptidase II and identification of upstream silencer elements.	Tripeptidyl-peptidase II (TPP II) is one of the many proteases involved in the important process of intracellular proteolysis. The widespread distribution and broad substrate specificity suggest that TPP II is encoded by a "house-keeping gene". However, both TPP II protein and mRNA levels vary in different cells. To investigate whether these variations are due to regulation on a genetic level, the promoter of the TPP2 gene has previously been identified. The promoter contains two inverted CCAAT-boxes and an E-box. By means of reporter assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays the promoter has now been further characterized. It could be concluded that USF-1 (upstream stimulatory factor-1) binds to the E-box in the promoter. The transcription factors NF-Y and USF-1 are present in protein-DNA complexes of different sizes. Mutation of the E-box had no effect, indicating that only binding of NF-Y to the two CCAAT-boxes was important for activation of transcription. However, this does not exclude the possibility that USF-1 can play an important role in transcription in other types of cells. Furthermore, the region upstream of the promoter was investigated due to its ability to inhibit transcription. Several silencer elements were identified and we also showed that Oct-1 binds to one of these elements. Thus, this investigation reveals that TPP II expression could be regulated through both positive and negative regulatory elements. Further studies are required to establish the involvement of different genetic elements, and how the interplay between different transcription factors will affect the transcriptional rate in vivo.
Loss of androgen receptor binding to selective androgen response elements causes a reproductive phenotype in a knockin mouse model.	Androgens influence transcription of their target genes through the activation of the androgen receptor (AR) that subsequently interacts with specific DNA motifs in these genes. These DNA motifs, called androgen response elements (AREs), can be classified in two classes: the classical AREs, which are also recognized by the other steroid hormone receptors; and the AR-selective AREs, which display selectivity for the AR. For in vitro interaction with the selective AREs, the androgen receptor DNA-binding domain is dependent on specific residues in its second zinc-finger. To evaluate the physiological relevance of these selective elements, we generated a germ-line knockin mouse model, termed SPARKI (SPecificity-affecting AR KnockIn), in which the second zinc-finger of the AR was replaced with that of the glucocorticoid receptor, resulting in a chimeric protein that retains its ability to bind classical AREs but is unable to bind selective AREs. The reproductive organs of SPARKI males are smaller compared with wild-type animals, and they are also subfertile. Intriguingly, however, they do not display any anabolic phenotype. The expression of two testis-specific, androgen-responsive genes is differentially affected by the SPARKI mutation, which is correlated with the involvement of different types of response elements in their androgen responsiveness. In this report, we present the first in vivo evidence of the existence of two functionally different types of AREs and demonstrate that AR-regulated gene expression can be targeted based on this distinction.
Conservative mutageneic perturbations of amino acids connecting helix 12 in the 1alpha,25(OH)2-D3 receptor (VDR) to the ligand cause significant transactivational effects.	The positioning of helix 12 activation domain of nuclear receptor proteins is critically important for gene regulation. Perturbations of the helix 12 by larger analogs may alter interactions with transcriptional machinery which might give rise to selectivity. To explore the topology of the ligand binding pocket and how the bound ligand conceivably gives rise to altered transcriptional efficiencies, we have targeted 4 hydrophobic residues which contact the 25-carbon of the ligand, 1alpha,25(OH)(2)-vitamin D(3), and made a series of 13 mutants. Substitution of a smaller hydrophobic residue was poorly tolerated compared to a larger one for transactivation. The larger amino acids are likely better tolerated by promoting stronger Van der Waals forces with the ligand. Valine-418 mutants demonstrated an extreme example of this observation with mutation to leucine being transactivationally unaffected with alanine being the most affected of all single mutants. V418L resulted in a 1.3-fold increase in EC(50) for 1,25-D mediated transactivation whereas V418A resulted in a 53-fold increase when compared to wildtype VDR. Importantly, this difference is not explained by ligand binding data but by differential VDR protease sensitivity implying that V418L-VDR mutation assumes a better conformational interaction surface for coactivator than V418A. Importantly, the V418 location may accommodate larger sidechains and may even enhance the interaction with specific nuclear coactivators.
Global identification and characterization of transcriptionally active regions in the rice genome.	Genome tiling microarray studies have consistently documented rich transcriptional activity beyond the annotated genes. However, systematic characterization and transcriptional profiling of the putative novel transcripts on the genome scale are still lacking. We report here the identification of 25,352 and 27,744 transcriptionally active regions (TARs) not encoded by annotated exons in the rice (Oryza. sativa) subspecies japonica and indica, respectively. The non-exonic TARs account for approximately two thirds of the total TARs detected by tiling arrays and represent transcripts likely conserved between japonica and indica. Transcription of 21,018 (83%) japonica non-exonic TARs was verified through expression profiling in 10 tissue types using a re-array in which annotated genes and TARs were each represented by five independent probes. Subsequent analyses indicate that about 80% of the japonica TARs that were not assigned to annotated exons can be assigned to various putatively functional or structural elements of the rice genome, including splice variants, uncharacterized portions of incompletely annotated genes, antisense transcripts, duplicated gene fragments, and potential non-coding RNAs. These results provide a systematic characterization of non-exonic transcripts in rice and thus expand the current view of the complexity and dynamics of the rice transcriptome.
Phosphorylation of IRF8 in a pre-associated complex with Spi-1/PU.1 and non-phosphorylated Stat1 is critical for LPS induction of the IL1B gene.	Rapid induction of transcription is known to be mediated by factors which bind DNA following post-translational modification. We report here that non-tyrosine phosphorylated (NTP)-Stat1 is involved in a cooperative interaction with Spi-1/PU.1 and IRF8 to form a pre-associated, poised complex for IL1B gene induction. A double point mutation at a putative STAT binding site, which overlaps this composite Spi-1 x IRF8 site located in the LPS and IL-1 response element (LILRE), inhibited human IL1B LPS-dependent reporter activity to about 10 percent of the control wild type vector. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed stimulation-independent constitutive binding of IRF8, Spi-1 and NTP-Stat1 at the LILRE, while binding of C/EBP beta was activated at an adjacent C/EBP beta site after LPS stimulation. In contrast to Stat1, IRF8 was tyrosine phosphorylated following LPS treatment. Supporting the involvement of NTP-Stat1, LPS-induced IL1B reporter activity in monocytes was enhanced by ectopic expression of NTP-Stat1 Y701F. In contrast, co-expression of a Y211F IRF8 mutein functioned as a dominant-negative inhibitor of LPS-induced IL1B reporter activity. In vitro DNA binding using extracts from LPS-treated monocytes confirmed that the LILRE enhancer constitutively binds a trimolecular complex containing IRF8, Spi-1 and NTP-Stat1. Binding studies using in vitro-expressed proteins revealed that NTP-Stat1 enhanced the binding of Spi-1 and IRF8 to the LILRE. Co-expression of TRAF6, an LPS surrogate, with Spi-1 and IRF8 enhanced IL1B reporter activity in HEK293R cells, which was dramatically reduced when Y211F IRF8 was co-expressed. These results suggest that the rapid transcriptional induction of an important inflammatory gene is dependent upon constitutive cooperative binding of a Spi-1 x IRF8 x NTP-Stat1 complex to the LILRE, which primes the gene for immediate induction following IRF8 phosphorylation. Phosphorylation of chromatin pre-associated factors like IRF8 may be an important strategy for the rapid transcriptional activation of genes involved in innate immunity.
Identification and characterization of the novel human prostate cancer-specific PC-1 gene promoter.	Human prostate and colon gene-1 (PC-1, also known as PrLZ) is an androgen-regulated, prostate tissue and prostate cancer cells specifically expressed novel gene. The increased expression of PC-1 gene appears to promote prostate cancer cells androgen-dependent (AD) and androgen-independent (AI) growth. To clone and investigate the expression and regulation elements of PC-1 gene may provide insight into the function of PC-1 and develop a new promoter that targets therapeutic genes to the AD and AI prostate cancer cells. The goal of the present study is cloning and characterization of the PC-1 promoter. A series of luciferase constructs that contain various fragments of the PC-1 5'-genomic region were transfected into human prostate cancer cells for promoter transactivation analysis. 5' deletion analysis identified the -1579 bp promoter region was required for the maximal proximal promoter activity; two transcriptional suppression and a positive regulatory region were identified; -4939 bp promoter fragment of the PC-1 gene retained the characteristic of prostate cancer-specific expression and exhibited higher transcription activity than PSA-6 kb promoter in the medium supplemented with steroid-depleted FBS. An androgen response element (ARE) was located in between -345 and -359 bp of the PC-1 5'-untranslated region relative to the translation initiation site. Thus, our studies not only provide molecular basis of PC-1 transcription regulation, but also define a new regulatory sequence that may be used to restrict expression of therapeutic genes to prostate cancer in the prostate cancer gene therapy.
Activation of the SCPx promoter in mouse adrenocortical Y1 cells.	Sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) is a peroxisomal protein with both lipid transfer and thiolase activity. Treatment of mouse adrenal Y1 cells with cAMP for 24h caused a significant induction of SCPx mRNA levels. Reporter gene studies demonstrated that treatment with cAMP and SF-1 was able to activate the SCPx promoter. Sequence analysis revealed the presence of three putative steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) binding motifs (designated SFB1, SFB2, and SFB3) and one CRE. Only SFB1 and SFB3 were able to bind recombinant SF-1 protein in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. The CRE was able to form a DNA/protein complex in the presence of Y1 nuclear extracts. Mutational analysis studies demonstrated that SFB3 is required for full activation of the SCPx promoter by cAMP treatment. Regulation of the SCPx gene by SF-1 and cAMP is similar to the regulatory mechanisms observed for other steroidogenic genes.
SP1 transcription factors in male germ cell development and differentiation.	Transcription factor SP1 is a zinc finger protein that has been implicated in regulating the expression of several genes involved in cellular differentiation and embryonic development. The zinc finger region of SP1 transcription factors binds to GC or GT-box elements present in the promoters of a number of male germ cell target genes that are developmentally expressed during spermatogenesis. The glutamine and serine/threonine-rich regions of the SP1 proteins recruit co-regulatory factors to the multi-protein preinitiation complex that are important for mediating transcriptional activation in male germ cells. Studies in our laboratory have identified several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding SP1 isoforms that display stage and cell-type-specific expression profiles in differentiating germ cells in the seminiferous epithelium of the testis. This review summarizes the expression patterns and functional significance of these SP1 transcription factor variants during spermatogenesis.
Differential activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and a related complex in neuronal nuclei.	The extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERKs 1/2) are known to participate in regulating transcription in response to moderate depolarization, such as synaptic stimulation, but how the same active enzyme can differentially regulate distinct transcriptional programs induced with abnormal depolarization (high potassium) is unknown. We hypothesized that ERK1 or 2 accomplishes this differential nuclear response through close association with other proteins in stable complexes. In support of this hypothesis, we have found that immunoreactivity for an apparent high molecular weight complex containing phospho-ERK1 increased in response to synaptic stimulation, but decreased in response to high potassium; p-ERK immunoreactivity at 44/42 kDa increased in both cases. Evidence supporting the conclusion that the band of interest contained ERK1 in a complex, as opposed to it being an unrelated protein crossreacting with antibodies against p-ERK, is that ERK1 (p44 MAPK) and 14-3-3 protein were electroeluted from the 160-kDa band cut from a gel. We also found the nuclear complexes to be exceptionally durable, suggesting a role for the crosslinking enzyme, transglutaminase, in its stabilization. In addition, we found other components of the ERK pathway, including MEK, ERK2, p90RSK, and Elk-1, migrating at higher-than-expected weights in brain nuclei. These results describe a novel stable complex of ERK1 in neuronal nuclei that responds differentially to synaptic and depolarizing stimulation, and thus may be capable of mediating gene transcription in a way distinct from the monomeric protein.
Smad4-dependent desmoglein-4 expression contributes to hair follicle integrity.	We have previously shown that keratinocyte-specific deletion of Smad4, a TGFbeta/Activin/BMP signaling mediator, results in a progressive alopecia. To further assess the molecular mechanisms of Smad4 loss-mediated alopecia, we examined expression levels of key molecules associated with hair follicle differentiation in Smad4-deleted skin. Among them, Desmoglein 4 (Dsg4) was down-regulated in Smad4-deleted skin prior to the onset of hair follicle abnormalities with gradual depletion coinciding with hair follicle degeneration. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay showed that Smad4, together with the BMP mediators Smad1 and Smad5, but not the TGFbeta/Activin mediators Smad2 or Smad3, bound to the Smad Binding Element (SBE) of the Dsg4 promoter. A Dsg4 reporter assay revealed that Smad4 was required for the maximal transactivation of Dsg4 in cooperation with Smad1 and Smad5. Mutating the SBE of the Dsg4 promoter abrogated Smad4 transactivation of Dsg4. Furthermore, BMP ligands, but not ligands of TGFbeta and Activin, induced endogenous Dsg4 expression. Our data demonstrate that in the presence of Smad4, BMP signaling participated in transcriptional regulation of Dsg4. Thus, Smad4 loss-associated Dsg4 depletion contributed, at least in part, to hair follicles degeneration in Smad4 deficient skin.
A novel mutation in the human androgen receptor suggests a regulatory role for the hinge region in amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal interactions.	The androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) is caused by molecular defects in the androgen receptor (AR). Clinically, the partial AIS has a variable phenotype. Many mechanisms explain the phenotype in the AIS. A crucial step in AR action is the interaction of the N and C termini.
Discovery of novel PPAR ligands by a virtual screening approach based on pharmacophore modeling, 3D shape, and electrostatic similarity screening.	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are important targets for drugs used in the treatment of atherosclerosis, dyslipidaemia, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and other diseases caused by abnormal regulation of the glucose and lipid metabolism. We applied a virtual screening workflow based on a combination of pharmacophore modeling with 3D shape and electrostatic similarity screening techniques to discover novel scaffolds for PPAR ligands. From the resulting 10 virtual screening hits, five tested positive in human PPAR ligand-binding domain (hPPAR-LBD) transactivation assays and showed affinities for PPAR in a competitive binding assay. Compounds 5, 7, and 8 were identified as PPAR-alpha agonists, whereas compounds 2 and 9 showed agonistic activity for hPPAR-gamma. Moreover, compound 9 was identified as a PPAR-delta antagonist. These results demonstrate that our virtual screening protocol is able to enrich novel scaffolds for PPAR ligands that could be useful for drug development in the area of atherosclerosis, dyslipidaemia, and type 2 diabetes.
Solid-phase synthesis and evaluation of TAR RNA targeted beta-carboline-nucleoside conjugates.	Four types of beta-carboline-nucleoside conjugates were synthesized. The binding affinities of these beta-carboline-nucleoside conjugates , and to TAR RNA were evaluated by affinity capillary electrophoresis. The data of binding affinities to TAR RNA show that conjugates and are stronger binders than the parent compound . Computer modeling indicates that the beta-carboline-nucleoside conjugate can fit to the UCU three-nucleotide bulge region of TAR RNA.
Regulation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone-1 gene transcription by members of the purine-rich element-binding protein family.	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone-1 (GnRH1) controls reproduction by stimulating the release of gonadotropins from the pituitary. To characterize regulatory factors governing GnRH1 gene expression, we employed biochemical and bioinformatics techniques to identify novel GnRH1 promoter-binding proteins from the brain of the cichlid fish, Astatotilapia burtoni (A. burtoni). Using an in vitro DNA-binding assay followed by mass spectrometric peptide mapping, we identified two members of the purine-rich element-binding (Pur) protein family, Puralpha and Purbeta, as candidates for GnRH1 promoter binding and regulation. We found that transcripts for both Puralpha and Purbeta colocalize in GnRH1-expressing neurons in the preoptic area of the hypothalamus in A. burtoni brain. Furthermore, we confirmed in vivo binding of endogenous Puralpha and Purbeta to the upstream region of the GnRH1 gene in A. burtoni brain and mouse neuronal GT1-7 cells. Consistent with the relative promoter occupancy exhibited by endogenous Pur proteins, overexpression of Purbeta, but not Puralpha, significantly downregulated GnRH1 mRNA levels in transiently transfected GT1-7 cells, suggesting that Purbeta acts as a repressor of GnRH1 gene transcription.
PCAF represses transactivation function of FOXO1 in an acetyltransferase-independent manner.	The FOXO transcription factors play a key role in cell cycle control, apoptosis, DNA repair, oxidative stress resistance, and longevity. In this study, we demonstrated that the acetyltransferase p300/CBP associated factor (PCAF) functions as a negative regulator of FOXO1. We showed that PCAF bound to the forkhead domain of FOXO1 and acetylated FOXO1 at the K242 and K245 residues. However, PCAF repressed FOXO1-induced transcription in an enzymatic activity-independent manner. In contrast, the transcriptional activity of FOXO1 S253A mutant, in which an Akt phosphorylation site is replaced by alanine, was not repressed by PCAF. Akt-induced phosphorylation of FOXO1 is required for its binding to PCAF, whereas the binding between FOXO1 and CBP is independent on FOXO1 S253 phosphorylation. Furthermore, overexpression of PCAF increased nuclear accumulation of FOXO1 even in the presence of serum. These results suggest that PCAF binds to phosphorylated FOXO1 by Akt and acts as a transcriptional corepressor in the nucleus.
Mediator subunits and histone methyltransferase Set2 contribute  to Ino2-dependent transcriptional activation of phospholipid  biosynthesis in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	To activate eukaryotic genes, several pathways which modify chromatin and recruit general factors of the transcriptional machinery are utilized. We investigated the factors required for activation of yeast phospholipid biosynthetic genes, depending on activator protein Ino2 which binds to the inositol/choline-responsive element (ICRE) upstream promoter motif together with its partner protein Ino4. We used a set of 15 strains each defective for one of the non essential subunits of yeast mediator complex and identified med2, med3, med15, med18 and med19 as impaired for inositol biosynthesis. In these mutants, ICRE-dependent gene activation was reduced to 13-22% of the wild-type level. We also demonstrate synthetic growth and activation defects among mediator mutants and mutants lacking defined histone modifications (snf1, gcn5) and transcriptional coactivators (sub1). Analysis of mutants defective for histone methylation (set1, set2 and dot1) and demethylation (jhd1, jhd2, gis1, rph1 and ecm5) revealed the importance of the H3 Lys36-specific Set2 methyltransferase for ICRE-dependent gene expression. Although defined mediator subunits are critical for gene activation, we could not detect their interaction with Ino2. In contrast, Ino2 directly binds to the Set2 histone methyltransferase. Mapping of interaction domains revealed the importance of the SET core domain which was necessary and sufficient for binding Ino2.
Anti-inflammatory activity of new compounds from Andrographis paniculata by NF-kappaB transactivation inhibition.	Previous studies showed that the ethyl acetate (EtOAc) fraction of Andrographis paniculata (AP) possessed anti-inflammatory activity. This study further isolated these active compounds from bioactivity-guided chromatographic fractionation and identified eight pure compounds. Reporter gene assay indicated that 5-hydroxy-7,8-dimethoxyflavone (1), 5-hydroxy-7,8-dimethoxyflavanone (2), a mix of beta-sitosterol (3a) and stigmasterol (3b), ergosterol peroxide (4), 14-deoxy-14,15-dehydroandrographolide (5), and a new compound, 19-O-acetyl-14-deoxy-11,12-didehydroandrographolide (6a), significantly inhibited the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB in LPS/IFN-gamma stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages (P < 0.05). The two most abundant compounds, 14-deoxy-11,12-didehydroandrographolide (7) and andrographolide (8), had less inhibitory activity but exerted greater inhibitory activity by hydrogenation, oxidation, or acetylation to become four derived compounds, 9, 10, 11, and 12. All of the compounds significantly decreased TNF-alpha, IL-6, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and nitric oxide (NO) secretions from LPS/IFN-gamma stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. Compounds 5, 11, and 12 exerted the strongest inhibitory effect on NF-kappaB-dependent transactivation in the RAW 264.7 cell, with IC(50) values of 2, 2.2, and 2.4 microg/mL, respectively, providing encouraging results for bioactive compound development.
Biological and clinical significance of KRAS mutations in lung cancer: an oncogenic driver that contrasts with EGFR mutation.	KRAS and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) are the two most frequently mutated proto-oncogenes in adenocarcinoma of the lung. The occurrence of these two oncogenic mutations is mutually exclusive, and they exhibit many contrasting characteristics such as clinical background, pathological features of patients harboring each mutation, and prognostic or predictive implications. Lung cancers harboring the EGFR mutations are remarkably sensitive to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib or erlotinib. This discovery has dramatically changed the clinical treatment of lung cancer in that it almost doubled the duration of survival for lung cancer patients with an EGFR mutation. In this review, we describe the features of KRAS mutations in lung cancer and contrast these with the features of EGFR mutations. Recent strategies to combat lung cancer harboring KRAS mutations are also reviewed.
ASCL1 regulates the expression of the CHRNA5/A3/B4 lung cancer susceptibility locus.	Tobacco contains a variety of carcinogens as well as the addictive compound nicotine. Nicotine addiction begins with the binding of nicotine to its cognate receptor, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Genome-wide association studies have implicated the nAChR gene cluster, CHRNA5/A3/B4, in nicotine addiction and lung cancer susceptibility. To further delineate the role of this gene cluster in lung cancer, we examined the expression levels of these three genes as well as other members of the nAChR gene family in lung cancer cell lines and patient samples using quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. Overexpression of the clustered nAChR genes was observed in small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC), an aggressive form of lung cancer highly associated with cigarette smoking. The overexpression of the genomically clustered genes in SCLC suggests their coordinate regulation. In silico analysis of the promoter regions of these genes revealed putative binding sites in all three promoters for achaete-scute complex homolog 1 (ASCL1), a transcription factor implicated in the pathogenesis of SCLC, raising the possibility that this factor may regulate the expression of the clustered nAChR genes. Consistent with this idea, knockdown of ASCL1 in SCLC, but not in non-SCLC, led to a significant decrease in expression of the alpha 3 and beta 4 genes without having an effect on any other highly expressed nAChR gene. Our data indicate a specific role for ASCL1 in regulating the expression of the CHRNA5/A3/B4 lung cancer susceptibility locus. This regulation may contribute to the predicted role that ASCL1 plays in SCLC tumorigenesis.
Cyclooxygenase-2 is a novel transcriptional target of the nuclear EGFR-STAT3 and EGFRvIII-STAT3 signaling axes.	Emerging evidence indicates a novel mode of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling, notably, one involves EGFR nuclear translocalization and subsequent gene activation. To date, however, the significance of the nuclear EGFR pathway in glioblastoma (GBM) is unknown. Here, we report that EGFR and its constitutively activated variant EGFRvIII undergo nuclear translocalization in GBM cells, in which the former event requires EGF stimulation and the latter is constitutive. To gain insights into the effect of nuclear EGFR on gene expression in GBM, we created isogenic GBM cell lines, namely, U87MG-vector, U87MG-EGFR, and U87MG-EGFRdNLS that, respectively, express the control vector, EGFR, and nuclear entry-defective EGFR with a deletion of the nuclear localization signal (NLS). Microarray analysis shows that 19 genes, including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), to be activated in U87MG-EGFR cells but not in U87MG-EGFRdNLS and U87MG-vector cells. Subsequent validation studies indicate that COX-2 gene is expressed at higher levels in cells with EGFR and EGFRvIII than those with EGFRdNLS and EGFRvIIIdNLS. Nuclear EGFR and its transcriptional cofactor signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) associate with the COX-2 promoter. Increased expression of EGFR/EGFRvIII and activated STAT3 leads to the synergistic activation of the COX-2 promoter. Promoter mutational analysis identified a proximal STAT3-binding site that is required for EGFR/EGFRvIII-STAT3-mediated COX-2 gene activation. In GBM tumors, an association exists between levels of COX-2, EGFR/EGFRvIII, and activated STAT3. Together, these findings indicate the existence of the nuclear EGFR/EGFRvIII signaling pathway in GBM and its functional interaction with STAT3 to activate COX-2 gene expression, thus linking EGFR-STAT3 and EGFRvIII-STAT3 signaling axes to proinflammatory COX-2 mediated pathway.
Myeloid zinc finger 1 induces migration, invasion, and in vivo metastasis through Axl gene expression in solid cancer.	Myeloid zinc finger 1 (MZF1) is a member of the SCAN domain family transcription factors that form dimers through their highly conserved SCAN motifs. Silencing of MZF1 inhibits cell proliferation, and abnormal expression of MZF1 results in cancer development. However, a potential role of MZF1 in metastasis remains unclear. Axl is a receptor tyrosine kinase and was first identified as a transforming gene in chronic myeloid leukemia. Axl overexpression induces proliferation, migration, and invasion and is highly expressed in different human cancers. In this study, we show that overexpression of MZF1 induces migration and invasion in colorectal (Rko, SW480) and cervical (HeLa) cancer cells. In addition, we show that MZF1 binds to the Axl promoter, transactivates promoter activity, and enhances Axl-mRNA and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner. In vitro, sh-RNA knockdown of Axl reduced MZF1-induced migration and invasion in HeLa and Rko cells (P = 0.05). Additionally, Rko cells overexpressing MZF1 showed increased tumor formation and liver metastasis in the chicken-embryo-metastasis assay in vivo. Furthermore, the expression of MZF1 and Axl was significantly higher in resected colorectal tumors compared with corresponding normal tissues (P = 0.02; P = 0.05), and MZF1 expression was positively correlated with Axl gene expression in tumor tissues (P < 0.01). Taken together, this is the first study to show that MZF1 induces invasion and in vivo metastasis in colorectal and cervical cancer, at least in part by regulating Axl gene expression.
Turning the page on epigenetic bookmarks.	Cells remember established patterns of gene expression through rounds of cell division despite dynamic changes in genomic chromatin structure. Two recent studies in Molecular Cell and Nature Medicine, broadly impacting on epigenetic gene regulation and disease, address how cells remember and suggest that both histone methyltransferases and locus specific DNA binding proteins can mark transcribed genes for reactivation after mitosis.
Importance of the nuclear factor kappaB for the primary open angle glaucoma--a hypothesis]	The primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is an optic neuropathy which is influenced by a number of different risk factors. Some of them can induce the transcriptional factor NF-kappaB, a nuclear protein which binds to specific areas of the DNA to stimulate different genes. NF-kappaB can be activated by increased intraocular pressure, increased age, vascular diseases and by oxidative stress. In the case of POAG NF-kappaB might be overstimulated with the induction of uncontrolled biochemical reactions. Treatment strategies for reducing NF-kappaB are to reduce intraocular pressure as well as therapies with statins, omega-3-fatty acids and alpha-lipoic acid. This model is a hypothesis and is intended to provide a basis for further discussions and basic research.
Activating mutations in BRAF characterize a spectrum of pediatric low-grade gliomas.	In the present study, DNA from 27 grade I and grade II pediatric gliomas, including ganglioglioma, desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma, dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, and pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma was analyzed using the Illumina 610K Beadchip SNP-based oligonucleotide array. Several consistent abnormalities, including gain of chromosome 7 and loss of 9p21 were observed. Based on our previous studies, in which we demonstrated BRAF mutations in 3 gangliogliomas, 31 tumors were screened for activating mutations in exons 11 and 15 of the BRAF oncogene or a KIAA1549-BRAF fusion product. There were no cases with a KIAA1549-BRAF fusion. A BRAF V600E mutation was detected in 14 of 31 tumors, which was not correlated with any consistent pattern of aberrations detected by the SNP array analysis. Tumors were also screened for mutations in codon 132 in exon 4 of IDH1, exons 2 and 3 of KRAS, and exons 2-9 of TP53. No mutations in KRAS or TP53 were identified in any of the samples, and there was only 1 IDH1 R132H mutation detected among the sample set. BRAF mutations constitute a major genetic alteration in this histologic group of pediatric brain tumors and may serve as a molecular target for biologically based inhibitors.
Identification of a heat shock-responsive cis-acting DNA sequence and its transcriptional regulator: Their roles in the expression of the Spirulina-desD gene in response to heat stress.	This study addresses the importance of a heat-shock-responsive cis-acting DNA element and its transcriptional regulator, which play key roles in the regulation of the Spirulina-desD gene on exposure to high temperatures. Temperature response analysis studies showed that the AT-rich region that is located between nt -98 to -80 of the Spirulina-desD gene promoter serves as a binding site for its transcriptional regulator. LC-MS/MS analysis of the DNA-binding protein complex revealed that the amino acid sequences of the bound proteins were homologous to those of several proteins, including a DNA-binding protein, heat shock protein-90 (Hsp90 or HtpG), GroEL and various protein kinases. In addition, western blot analysis indicated that the chaperones GroEL and Hsp90 and a dephosphorylation reaction played a role in the response to elevated temperatures. We conclude that the regulatory DNA segments and the corresponding regulatory binding proteins are distinct for each particular stress condition. This is true, irrespective of whether the regulatory mechanisms that govern the expression of the cold- and heat-regulated desD gene depend on similar phosphorylation- and dephosphorylation-dependent conformational changes that modulate the association of the co-chaperone.
Temporal ChIP-on-Chip of RNA-Polymerase-II to detect novel gene activation events during photoreceptor maturation.	During retinal development, post-mitotic neural progenitor cells must activate thousands of genes to complete synaptogenesis and terminal maturation. While many of these genes are known, others remain beyond the sensitivity of expression microarray analysis. Some of these elusive gene activation events can be detected by mapping changes in RNA polymerase-II (Pol-II) association around transcription start sites.
Activation of Egr-1 expression in astrocytes by HIV-1 Tat: new insights into astrocyte-mediated Tat neurotoxicity.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat plays an important role in HIV-associated neuropathogenesis; the underlying mechanisms are still evolving. We have recently shown that HIV-1 Tat induces expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a characteristic of HIV-1 infection of the central nervous system. We have also shown that the Tat-induced GFAP expression in astrocytes is regulated by p300 and that deletion of the early growth response 1 (Egr-1) cis-transacting element within the p300 promoter abolishes Tat-induced GFAP expression. In this study, we further examined the relationship between Tat and Egr-1 in astrocytes. We found increased Egr-1 protein expression in Tat-expressing human astrocytoma cells and mouse primary astrocytes. Using the Egr-1 promoter-driven firefly luciferase reporter gene assay and the site-directed mutagenesis, we demonstrated that Tat increased Egr-1 expression by transactivating the Egr-1 promoter and involving specific serum response elements within the promoter. Consistent with these data, we showed that Tat transactivation of the Egr-1 promoter was abrogated when astrocytes were cultured in serum-reduced media. Taken together, these results reveal that Tat directly transactivates Egr-1 expression and suggest that Tat interaction with Egr-1 is probably one of the very upstream molecular events that initiate Tat-induced astrocyte dysfunction and subsequent Tat neurotoxicity.
Distinct regulatory mechanisms of eukaryotic transcriptional activation by SAGA and TFIID.	A growing number of human diseases are linked to abnormal gene expression which is largely controlled at the level of transcriptional initiation. The gene-specific activator promotes the initiation of transcription through its interaction with one or more components of the transcriptional initiation machinery, hence leading to stimulated transcriptional initiation or activation. However, all activator proteins do not target the same component(s) of the transcriptional initiation machinery. Rather, they can have different target specificities, and thus, can lead to distinct mechanisms of transcriptional activation. Two such distinct mechanisms of transcriptional activation in yeast are mediated by the SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5-Acetyltransferase) and TFIID (Transcription factor IID) complexes, and are termed as "SAGA-dependent" and "TFIID-dependent" transcriptional activation, respectively. SAGA is the target of the activator in case of SAGA-dependent transcriptional activation, while the targeting of TFIID by the activator leads to TFIID-dependent transcriptional activation. Both the SAGA and TFIID complexes are highly conserved from yeast to human, and play crucial roles in gene activation among eukaryotes. The regulatory mechanisms of eukaryotic transcriptional activation by SAGA and TFIID are discussed here. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled The 26S Proteasome: When degradation is just not enough!
Chromosomal dynamics of cell cycle regulator gene p21 during transcriptional activation.	The radial position of a gene within its chromosome territory (CT) in the interphase nucleus is thought to depend on the transcriptional activity of the gene and on transcriptional activity, gene density, and conformation of the chromosomal surrounding. In this study we analyzed the position of the cell cycle regulator gene p21 within the CT of human chromosome 6 (HSA6) upon transcriptional activation. Whereas the majority of active p21 genes is located in the interior of the CT of HSA6, induction of p21 transcription correlates with increased variation of gene localization within the CT and with a higher percentage of p21 genes located at the periphery of the CT. Additionally it demonstrates once more that transcription can take place throughout CTs. Comparison of the p21 locus with two non-coding regions on HSA6 showed that both non-coding sequences are located more frequently in the interior of the CT than p21 genes although they are situated in chromosomal neighborhoods with widely differing gene density and regional transcriptional activity. Thus our data support models describing an influence of the transcriptional activity of a gene on the localization within its CT. However, our data also indicate that additional factors such as chromatin remodeling are implicated in the positioning of genes within the respective chromosome territory.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis increases IP-10 and MIG protein despite inhibition of IP-10 and MIG transcription.	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) has evolved methods to evade interferon-gamma (IFN) mediated protection. We sought to determine the effect of MTB infection on expression of IFN-inducible Protein 10 (IP-10) and Monokine Induced by IFN (MIG), two chemokines involved in host defense. MTB infection of THP-1 cells inhibited the transcription of IP-10 and MIG. A key mechanism for the inhibition is the disruption of binding of Signal Transduction and Activation of Transcription 1-alpha (STAT1) to its cis-regulatory element, present in the 5'-flanking region of both IP-10 and MIG promoters. Use of inhibitors specific to the nuclear factor-kappa B (NFB) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38(mapk)) implicate these two signaling pathways in mediating the effect of MTB on the inhibition of IFN-induced IP-10 and MIG mRNA expression. Interestingly, despite transcriptional inhibition, there was an unexpected increase in IP-10 and MIG protein production after combined IFN and MTB stimulation. MTB also inhibited IFN induction of MIG mRNA but augmented MIG protein in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages. The synergy between MTB and IFN in the induction of IP-10 and MIG protein appears to involve novel post-transcriptional events that incorporates non-canonical functions of NFB and p38(mapk).
Modulation of biological processes in the nucleus by delivery of DNA oligonucleotides conjugated with gold nanoparticles.	The development of a method that can efficiently deliver nucleic acids into the nucleus of living systems remains one of the key challenges for experimental and therapeutic use of nonbiological gene delivery agents. In the current study, we demonstrate a functionalized gold nanoparticle (AuNP) that can serve as a universal carrier for the delivery of DNA oligonucleotides (oligos) into the nucleus. We designed various types of DNA oligos to redirect alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs, such as MCL-1 and BCL-6, and to sequester transcriptional factors, including estrogen receptor  and p53. We successfully delivered the oligos into the nucleus, resulting in the targeted effects. In addition, injection of the antisense DNAs into a xenograft tumor in a mouse model system resulted in inhibited development of the tumor by redirecting the alternative splicing of the pre-mRNA. Our findings show that these nanoconjugates efficiently load and deliver antisense DNAs to redirect gene splicing or double-stranded DNAs to decoy gene transcription by transcriptional factors into mammalian cells and in vivo animals. Therefore, our lego-like AuNP gene delivery system can be used universally to control different biological processes by modulating nuclear gene expression events in living systems.
A regulatory polymorphism in promoter region of TNFR1 gene is associated with Kawasaki disease in Chinese individuals.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and the TNF receptor superfamily (TNF-TNFR) plays very important roles in the pathogenesis of Kawasaki disease (KD) by leukocyte recruitment, upregulation of matrix-degrading enzymes and proinflammatory cytokines. This study aims to investigate whether potential polymorphisms in TNF receptor superfamily member 1A gene (TNFR1) are associated with KD and its effects on transcriptions activity of TNFR1. Genetic variations of TNFR1 promoter and coding regions in 132 unrelated patients with KD and 212 age-matched healthy controls recruited from a population of Chinese individuals were screened by direct sequencing. Bioinformatics analysis and function assays were performed to investigate the association between genetic variations and KD, and its effects on transcription activity of TNFR1. Five polymorphisms, termed -609T/G, -581A/G, -421G/A, -383A/C, and +36A/G, were identified in the subjects, of which -421A/G was reported for the first time. In particular, bioinformatics analysis and function assay confirmed that -609T allele resulted in allele-specific strengthening of TNFR1 transcription and was significantly associated with KD (p = 2.951E-08, odds ratio = 2.42, 95% confidence interval = 1.76-3.13). Furthermore, the haplotype TAGAA showed a relatively higher frequency in patients with KD compared with healthy controls (p = 3.446E-07, odds ratio = 2.26, 95% confidence interval = 1.65-3.11). Therefore, our results suggested that regulatory polymorphism -609T/G and the haplotype TAGAA may be related to increased susceptibility to KD in Chinese individuals.
A role for DNA sequence in controlling the spatial organization of the genome.	Recruitment of genes to the nuclear periphery upon transcriptional activation is a common phenomenon in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have recently identified DNA elements called gene recruitment sequences (GRSs) in the promoters of genes that are recruited to the nuclear periphery. These elements are necessary for peripheral targeting of genes. GRSs also function as DNA zip codes: they are sufficient to target an ectopic locus to the nuclear periphery. Targeting promotes full transcription and involves the interaction of promoters with the Nuclear Pore Complex (NPC). GRSs are widespread across the yeast genome, and are enriched in the promoters of genes induced by protein folding stress. Here, we place these observations in the context of the more global topic of genome organization and speculate about how the position of genes impacts their expression.
Invasiveness and anchorage independent growth ability augmented by PTEN inactivation through the PI3K/AKT/NFkB pathway in lung cancer cells.	PTEN is inactivated in a subset of lung cancer; therefore, we investigated the involvement of PTEN inactivation in invasiveness of lung cancer cells. AKT at Ser473 was phosphorylated in several lung cancer cell lines with loss of PTEN expression. Therefore, we created a tetracycline inducible expression system of wild-type PTEN (PTEN-WT) as well as catalytically (PTEN-G129R) and lipid phosphatase (PTEN-G129E) inactive PTEN mutants using the PC14, PC9 and PC3 lung adenocarcinoma cell lines, in which endogenous PTEN expression was not detected and AKT at Ser473 was phosphorylated by Western blot analysis. Induction of PTEN-WT reduced phosphorylation of AKT and inhibited the transcriptional activity of NFkB, whereas PTEN mutants did not, suggesting that PTEN inactivation results in the activation of the AKT/NFkB pathway in PC14, PC9 and PC3 cells. Furthermore, overexpression of PTEN-WT suppressed anchorage independent growth in soft agar and reduced invasiveness in a trans-well chamber assay of PC14 cells. Neither PTEN-G129R nor PTEN-G129E had suppressive effects on anchorage independent growth and invasiveness. Augmentation of invasiveness by constitutively active AKT was also shown in mouse NIH3T3 cells. Therefore, it was strongly indicated that activation of the PI3K/AKT/NFkB pathway by PTEN inactivation results in augmented invasiveness in lung cancer cells and lipid phosphatase activity of PTEN plays a key role in this process.
Identification and characterization of a Tegillarca granosa ferritin regulated by iron ion exposure and thermal stress.	Ferritin, a conserved iron storage protein of most living organisms, plays a crucial role in iron metabolism. In this study, the ferritin gene from Tegillarca granosa (denoted as TgFER) was identified by expressed sequence tag (EST) and PCR approaches. The full-length cDNA of TgFER was of 895bp, consisting of a 5'-UTR of 163 bp with a putative iron regulatory element (IRE), a 3'-UTR of 213 bp, and a complete open reading frame of 519 bp encoding a polypeptide with 172 amino acid residues. The predicted molecular mass of deduced amino acid of TgFER was 20.00 kDa and the theoretical pI was 4.89. The deduced amino acid of TgFER shared high identities to ferritin from abalone, oyster, clam and human. The tissue distribution of TgFER in the tissues of mantle, foot, gill, haemocytes and hepatopancreas was examined by quantitative real-time PCR (q-PCR) and mRNA transcripts of TgFER were found to be dominately expressed in haemocytes, hepatopancreas and gill and weakly in foot and mantle. The temporal expression of TgFER in haemocytes or hepatopancreases after challenged by metals ion (FeCl and FeCl) exposure and thermal stress were also analyzed with q-PCR. The diverse expression patterns of TgFER were detected depending upon the types of stimulators and tissues. The ployconal antibodies generated from the recombinant product of TgFER could be specifically identified not only the recombinant product, but also the native protein from haemocytes. All these results strongly suggested that TgFER was involved in the iron metabolism and thermal stress regulation in T. granosa.
Insights into interphase large-scale chromatin structure from analysis of engineered chromosome regions.	How chromatin folds into mitotic and interphase chromosomes has remained a difficult question for many years. We have used three generations of engineered chromosome regions as a means of visualizing specific chromosome regions in live cells and cells fixed under conditions that preserve large-scale chromatin structure. Our results confirm the existence of large-scale chromatin domains and fibers formed by the folding of 10-nm and 30-nm chromatin fibers into larger, spatially distinct domains. Transcription at levels within severalfold of the levels measured for endogenous loci occur within these large-scale chromatin structures on a condensed template linearly compacted several hundred fold to 1000-fold relative to B-form DNA. However, transcriptional induction is accompanied by a severalfold decondensation of this large-scale chromatin structure that propagates hundreds of kilobases beyond the induced gene. Examination of engineered chromosome regions in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and differentiated cells suggests a surprising degree of plasticity in this large-scale chromatin structure, allowing long-range DNA interactions within the context of large-scale chromatin fibers. Recapitulation of gene-specific differences in large-scale chromatin conformation and nuclear positioning using these engineered chromosome regions will facilitate identification of cis and trans determinants of interphase chromosome architecture.
Effects of hepatitis C virus on suppressor of cytokine signaling mRNA levels: comparison between different genotypes and core protein sequence analysis.	Glucose metabolism disturbances, including insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, are frequent and important cofactors of hepatitis C. Increasing epidemiological and experimental data suggest that all major genotypes of hepatitis C virus (HCV), albeit to a different extent, cause insulin resistance. The HCV core protein has been shown to be sufficient to impair insulin signaling in vitro through several post-receptorial mechanisms, mostly via the activation of suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family members and the consequent decrease of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1). The levels of IRS-1 and SOCS were investigated upon expression of the core protein of HCV genotypes 1-4. Furthermore, the core protein sequences were analyzed to identify the amino acid residues responsible for IRS-1 decrease, with particular regard to SOCS mRNA deregulation. The results suggest that the activation of SOCS family members is a general mechanism associated with the common HCV genotypes. A rare genotype 1b variant, however, failed to activate any of the SOCS tested: this allowed to analyze in detail the distinct amino acid sequences responsible for SOCS deregulation. By combining approaches using intergenotypic chimeras and site-directed mutagenesis, genetic evidence was provided in favor of a role of amino acids 49 and 131 of the HCV core-encoding sequence in mediating SOCS transactivation.
Network modeling of the transcriptional effects of copy number aberrations in glioblastoma.	DNA copy number aberrations (CNAs) are a hallmark of cancer genomes. However, little is known about how such changes affect global gene expression. We develop a modeling framework, EPoC (Endogenous Perturbation analysis of Cancer), to (1) detect disease-driving CNAs and their effect on target mRNA expression, and to (2) stratify cancer patients into long- and short-term survivors. Our method constructs causal network models of gene expression by combining genome-wide DNA- and RNA-level data. Prognostic scores are obtained from a singular value decomposition of the networks. By applying EPoC to glioblastoma data from The Cancer Genome Atlas consortium, we demonstrate that the resulting network models contain known disease-relevant hub genes, reveal interesting candidate hubs, and uncover predictors of patient survival. Targeted validations in four glioblastoma cell lines support selected predictions, and implicate the p53-interacting protein Necdin in suppressing glioblastoma cell growth. We conclude that large-scale network modeling of the effects of CNAs on gene expression may provide insights into the biology of human cancer. Free software in MATLAB and R is provided.
SALL4, a stem cell factor, affects the side population by regulation of the ATP-binding cassette drug transport genes.	Our previous work shows that the stem cell factor SALL4 plays a central role in embryonic and leukemic stem cells. In this study, we report that SALL4 expression was higher in drug resistant primary acute myeloid leukemic patients than those from drug-responsive cases. In addition, while overexpression of SALL4 led to drug resistance in cell lines, cells with decreased SALL4 expression were more sensitive to drug treatments than the parental cells. This led to our investigation of the implication of SALL4 in drug resistance and its role in side population (SP) cancer stem cells. SALL4 expression was higher in SP cells compared to non-SP cells by 2-4 fold in various malignant hematopoietic cell lines. Knocking down of SALL4 in isolated SP cells resulted in a reduction of SP cells, indicating that SALL4 is required for their self-renewal. The SP phenotype is known to be mediated by members of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) drug transport protein family, such as ABCG2 and ABCA3. Using chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP), quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and electrophoretic mobility shift assay(EMSA), we demonstrated that SALL4 was able to bind to the promoter region of ABCA3 and activate its expression while regulating the expression of ABCG2 indirectly. Furthermore, SALL4 expression was positively correlated to those of ABCG2 and ABCA3 in primary leukemic patient samples. Taken together, our results suggest a novel role for SALL4 in drug sensitivity, at least in part through the maintenance of SP cells, and therefore may be responsible for drug-resistance in leukemia. We are the first to demonstrate a direct link between stem cell factor SALL4, SP and drug resistance in leukemia.
Involvement of Runx3 in the basal transcriptional activation of the mouse angiotensin II type 1 receptor-associated protein gene.	We previously cloned a molecule that interacts with angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor to exert an inhibitory function on AT1 receptor signaling that we named ATRAP/Agtrap (for AT1 receptor-associated protein). In the present study we examined the regulation of basal ATRAP gene expression using renal distal convoluted tubule cells. We found that serum starvation upregulated basal expression of ATRAP gene, a response that required de novo mRNA and protein synthesis. Luciferase assay revealed that the proximal promoter region directs transcription and that a putative binding site of runt-related transcription factors (RBE) is important for transcriptional activation. The results of RBE-decoy transfection and endogenous knockdown by small interference RNA showed that the runt-related transcription factor Runx3 is involved in ATRAP gene expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay also supported the binding of Runx3 to the ATRAP promoter in renal distal convoluted tubule cells. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated the expression of Runx3 and ATRAP proteins in the distal convoluted and connecting tubules of the kidney in consecutive sections. Furthermore, the Runx3 immunostaining was decreased together with a concomitant suppression of ATRAP expression in the affected kidney after 7 days of unilateral ureteral obstruction. These findings indicate that Runx3 plays a role in ATRAP gene expression in renal distal tubular cells both in vitro and in vivo.
Orphan receptor TR3 enhances p53 transactivation and represses DNA double-strand break repair in hepatoma cells under ionizing radiation.	In response to ionizing radiation (IR)-induced DNA double-strand breaks (DSB), cells elicit an evolutionarily conserved checkpoint response that induces cell cycle arrest and either DNA repair or apoptosis, thereby maintaining genomic stability. DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) is a central enzyme involved in DSB repair for mammalian cells that comprises a DNA-PK catalytic subunit and the Ku protein, which act as regulatory elements. DNA-PK also functions as a signaling molecule to selectively regulate p53-dependent apoptosis in response to IR. Herein, we demonstrate that the orphan nuclear receptor TR3 suppresses DSB repair by blocking Ku80 DNA-end binding activity and promoting DNA-PK-induced p53 activity in hepatoma cells. We find that TR3 interacts with Ku80 and inhibits its binding to DNA ends, which then suppresses DSB repair. Furthermore, TR3 is a phosphorylation substrate for DNA-PK and interacts with DNA-PK catalytic subunit in a Ku80-independent manner. Phosphorylated TR3, in turn, enhances DNA-PK-induced phosphorylation and p53 transcription activity, thereby enhancing IR-induced apoptosis in hepatoma cells. Together, our findings reveal novel functions for TR3, not only in DSB repair regulation but also in IR-induced hepatoma cell apoptosis, and they suggest that TR3 is a potential target for cancer radiotherapy.
p63 Transcriptionally regulates BNC1, a Pol I and Pol II transcription factor that regulates ribosomal biogenesis and epithelial differentiation.	The p53-family member, p63 is a transcription factor that influences cellular adhesion, motility, proliferation, survival and apoptosis, and has a major role in regulating epithelial stem cells. Expression of p63 is often dysregulated in squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. In this study we show that p63 induces the expression of the basal epithelial transcription factor, Basonuclin 1. Basonuclin 1 is an unusual transcription factor that interacts with a subset of promoters of genes that are transcribed by both RNA polymerase-I and -II and has roles in maintaining ribosomal biogenesis and the proliferative potential of immature epithelial cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and reporter assays demonstrate that Basonuclin 1 is a direct transcriptional target of p63 and we also show that up-regulation of Basonuclin 1 is a common event in squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. These data identify a new transcriptional programme mediated by p63 regulation of the Basonuclin 1 transcription factor in squamous cell carcinomas and provide a novel link of p63 with the regulation of ribosomal biogenesis in epithelial cancer.
Estrogen receptor beta stimulates Egr-1 transcription via MEK1/Erk/Elk-1 cascade in C6 glioma cells.	The Egr-1 is an immediate early response gene encoding a transcription factor that functions in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. Estrogen has diverse physiological effects, including cellular proliferation and neuroprotection against brain injury. There are two types of estrogen receptors (ERs), ER and ER. ER-induced Egr-1 expression has been extensively studied; however, the role of ER is yet not known. In the present study, we investigated whether or not ER induces Egr-1 expression in C6 rat glioma cells, which express ER but not ER. Our results show that ER promoted up-regulation of Egr-1 expression via a non-genomic mechanism involving the Raf/MEK1/Erk/Elk-1 signaling cascade.
Functional diversity of human basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor TCF4 isoforms generated by alternative 5' exon usage and splicing.	Transcription factor 4 (TCF4 alias ITF2, E2-2, ME2 or SEF2) is a ubiquitous class A basic helix-loop-helix protein that binds to E-box DNA sequences (CANNTG). While involved in the development and functioning of many different cell types, recent studies point to important roles for TCF4 in the nervous system. Specifically, human TCF4 gene is implicated in susceptibility to schizophrenia and TCF4 haploinsufficiency is the cause of the Pitt-Hopkins mental retardation syndrome. However, the structure, expression and coding potential of the human TCF4 gene have not been described in detail.
Optimizing periodicity and polymodality in noise-induced genetic oscillators.	Many cellular functions are based on the rhythmic organization of biological processes into self-repeating cascades of events. Some of these periodic processes, such as the cell cycles of several species, exhibit conspicuous irregularities in the form of period skippings, which lead to polymodal distributions of cycle lengths. A recently proposed mechanism that accounts for this quantized behavior is the stabilization of a Hopf-unstable state by molecular noise. Here we investigate the effect of varying noise in a model system, namely an excitable activator-repressor genetic circuit, that displays this noise-induced stabilization effect. Our results show that an optimal noise level enhances the regularity (coherence) of the cycles, in a form of coherence resonance. Similar noise levels also optimize the multimodal nature of the cycle lengths. Together, these results illustrate how molecular noise within a minimal gene regulatory motif confers robust generation of polymodal patterns of periodicity.
Osteoclastogenesis is negatively regulated by D-serine produced by osteoblasts.	We have shown the functional expression by chondrocytes of serine racemase (SR) which is responsible for the synthesis of D-serine (Ser) from L-Ser in cartilage. In this study, we evaluated the possible functional expression of SR by bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts. Expression of SR mRNA was seen in osteoblasts localized at the cancellous bone surface in neonatal rat tibial sections and in cultured rat calvarial osteoblasts endowed to release D-Ser into extracellular medium, but not in cultured osteoclasts differentiated from murine bone marrow progenitor cells. Sustained exposure to D-Ser failed to significantly affect alkaline phosphatase activity and Ca(2+) accumulation in cultured osteoblasts, but significantly inhibited differentiation and maturation in a concentration-dependent manner at a concentration range of 0.1-1 mM without affecting cellular survival in cultured osteoclasts. By contrast, L-Ser promoted osteoclastic differentiation in a manner sensitive to the inhibition by D-Ser. Matured osteoclasts expressed mRNA for the amino acid transporter B(0,+) (ATB(0,+) ) and the system alanine, serine, and cysteine amino acid transporter-2 (ASCT2), which are individually capable of similarly incorporating extracellular L- and D-Ser. Knockdown of these transporters by siRNA prevented both the promotion by L-Ser and the inhibition by D-Ser of osteoclastic differentiation in pre-osteoclastic RAW264.7 cells. These results suggest that D-Ser may play a pivotal role in osteoclastogenesis through a mechanism related to the incorporation mediated by both ATB(0,+) and ASCT2 of serine enantiomers in osteoclasts after the synthesis and subsequent release from adjacent osteoblasts.
Regulation of gene expression in retrovirus vectors by X-ray and proton beam radiation with artificially constructed promoters.	We previously obtained an X-ray responsive promoter from 11 promoters that we constructed. In the present study, we aimed to determine the efficiency of our promoter construction method. In addition, the reactivity of the promoter to X-rays in vivo is also investigated.
PRMT1 interacts with AML1-ETO to promote its transcriptional activation and progenitor cell proliferative potential.	Fusion protein AML1-ETO, resulting from t(8;21) translocation, is highly related to leukemia development. It has been reported that full-length AML1-ETO blocks AML1 function and requires additional mutagenic events to promote leukemia. We have previously shown that the expression of AE9a, a splice isoform of AML1-ETO, can rapidly cause leukemia in mice. To understand how AML1-ETO is involved in leukemia development, we took advantage of our AE9a leukemia model and sought to identify its interacting proteins from primary leukemic cells. Here, we report the discovery of a novel AE9a binding partner PRMT1 (protein arginine methyltransferase 1). PRMT1 not only interacts with but also weakly methylates arginine 142 of AE9a. Knockdown of PRMT1 affects expression of a specific group of AE9a-activated genes. We also show that AE9a recruits PRMT1 to promoters of AE9a-activated genes, resulting in enrichment of H4 arginine 3 methylation, H3 Lys9/14 acetylation, and transcription activation. More importantly, knockdown of PRMT1 suppresses the self-renewal capability of AE9a, suggesting a potential role of PRMT1 in regulating leukemia development.
PAP1 transcription factor enhances production of phenylpropanoid and terpenoid scent compounds in rose flowers.	 Floral scent is a complex trait of biological and applied significance. To evaluate whether scent production originating from diverse metabolic pathways (e.g. phenylpropanoids and isoprenoids) can be affected by transcriptional regulators, Arabidopsis PRODUCTION OF ANTHOCYANIN PIGMENT1 (PAP1) transcription factor was introduced into Rosa hybrida.  Color and scent profiles of PAP1-transgenic and control (-glucuronidase-expressing) rose flowers and the expression of key genes involved in the production of secondary metabolites were analyzed. To evaluate the significance of the scent modification, olfactory trials were conducted with both humans and honeybees.  In addition to increased levels of phenylpropanoid-derived color and scent compounds when compared with control flowers, PAP1-transgenic rose lines also emitted up to 6.5 times higher levels of terpenoid scent compounds. Olfactory assay revealed that bees and humans could discriminate between the floral scents of PAP1-transgenic and control flowers.  The increase in volatile production in PAP1 transgenes was not caused solely by transcriptional activation of their respective biosynthetic genes, but probably also resulted from enhanced metabolic flux in both the phenylpropanoid and isoprenoid pathways. The mechanism(s) governing the interactions in these metabolic pathways that are responsible for the production of specialized metabolites remains to be elucidated.
HO-1 induction in motor cortex and intestinal dysfunction in TDP-43 A315T transgenic mice.	TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has been found to be related to the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). TDP-43 A315T transgenic mice develop degeneration of specific motor neurons, and accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins has been observed in the pyramidal cells of motor cortex of these mice. In this study, we found stress-responsive HO-1 induction and no autophagic alteration in motor cortex of TDP-43 A315T transgenic mice. Glial activation, especially astrocytic proliferation, occurred in cortical layer 5 and sub-meningeal region. Interestingly, we noticed that progressively thinned colon, swollen small intestine and reduced food intake, rather than severe muscle weakness, contributed to the death of TDP-43 A315T transgenic mice. Increased TDP-43 accumulation in the myenteric nerve plexus and increased thickness of muscular layer of colon were related to the intestinal dysfunction.
Epigenetic repression of RARRES1 is mediated by methylation of a proximal promoter and a loss of CTCF binding.	The cis-acting promoter element responsible for epigenetic silencing of retinoic acid receptor responder 1 (RARRES1) by methylation is unclear. Likewise, how aberrant methylation interplays effectors and thus affects breast neoplastic features remains largely unknown.
The SAM domain of human TEL2 can abrogate transcriptional output from TEL1 (ETV-6) and ETS1/ETS2.	Regulation of gene expression downstream of the Receptor Tyrosine Kinase signaling pathway in Drosophila relies on a transcriptional effector network featuring two conserved Ets family proteins, Yan and Pointed, known as TEL1 (ETV6) and ETS1/ETS2, respectively, in mammals. As in Drosophila, both TEL1 and ETS1/ETS2 operate as Ras pathway transcriptional effectors and misregulated activity of either factor has been implicated in many human leukemias and solid tumors. Providing essential regulation to the Drosophila network, direct interactions with the SAM domain protein Mae attenuate both Yan-mediated repression and PointedP2-mediated transcriptional activation. Given the critical contributions of Mae to the Drosophila circuitry, we investigated whether the human Ets factors TEL1 and ETS1/ETS2 could be subject to analogous regulation. Here we demonstrate that the SAM domain of human TEL2 can inhibit the transcriptional activities of ETS1/2 and TEL1. Drosophila Mae can also attenuate human ETS1/ETS2 function, suggesting there could be cross-species conservation of underlying mechanism. In contrast, Mae is not an effective inhibitor of TEL1, suggesting the mode of TEL2SAM-mediated inhibition of TEL1 may be distinct from how Drosophila Mae antagonizes Yan. Together our results reveal both further similarities and new differences between the mammalian and Drosophila networks and more broadly suggest that SAM domain-mediated interactions could provide an effective mechanism for modulating output from the TEL1 and ETS1/2 oncogenes.
Expression of the class II tumor suppressor gene RIG1 is directly regulated by p53 tumor suppressor in cancer cell lines.	Recent studies indicated that the RIG1 (RARRES3/TIG3) plays an important role in cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. However, the regulatory mechanism of RIG1 gene expression has not been clearly elucidated. In this study, we identified a functional p53 response element (p53RE) in the RIG1 gene promoter. Transfection studies revealed that the RIG1 promoter activity was greatly enhanced by wild type but not mutated p53 protein. Sequence specific mutation of the p53RE abolished p53-mediated transactivation. Specific binding of p53 protein to the rig-p53RE was demonstrated using electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay. Further studies confirmed that the expression of RIG1 mRNA and protein is enhanced through increased p53 protein in HepG2 or in H24-H1299 cells. In conclusion, our results indicated that RIG1 gene is a downstream target of p53 in cancer cell lines.
Polyglutamine tracts as modulators of transcriptional activation from yeast to mammals.	Microsatellite repeats are genetically unstable and subject to expansion and shrinkage. A subset of them, triplet repeats, can occur within the coding region and specify homomeric tracts of amino acids. Polyglutamine (polyQ) tracts are enriched in eukaryotic regulatory proteins, notably transcription factors, and we had shown before that they can contribute to transcriptional activation in mammalian cells. Here we generalize this finding by also including evolutionarily divergent organisms, namely, Drosophila and baker's yeast. In all three systems, Gal4-based model transcription factors were more active if they harbored a polyQ tract, and the activity depended on the length of the tract. By contrast, a polyserine tract was inactive. PolyQs acted from either an internal or a C-terminal position, thus ruling out a merely structural 'linker' effect. Finally, a two-hybrid assay in mammalian cells showed that polyQ tracts can interact with each other, supporting the concept that a polyQ-containing transcription factor can recruit other factors with polyQ tracts or glutamine-rich activation domains. The widespread occurrence of polyQ repeats in regulatory proteins suggests a beneficial role; in addition to the contribution to transcriptional activity, their genetic instability might help a species to adapt to changing environmental conditions in a potentially reversible manner.
Transcriptional regulation of murine IL-33 by TLR and non-TLR agonists.	IL-33, a member of the IL-1 family of cytokines, is produced by many cell types, including macrophages, yet its regulation is largely unknown. Treatment of primary murine macrophages with a panel of TLR (e.g., TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, and TLR9) agonists and non-TLR (e.g., MDA5, RIG-I) agonists revealed a pattern of gene and protein expression consistent with a role for IFN regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) in the expression of IL-33. Accordingly, induction of IL-33 mRNA was attenuated in IRF-3(-/-) macrophages and TBK-1(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Despite the fact that all IL-33 agonists were IRF-3 dependent, LPS-induced IL-33 mRNA was fully inducible in IFN-(-/-) macrophages, indicating that IL-33 is not dependent on IFN- as an intermediate. Epinephrine and Bordetella pertussis adenylate cyclase toxin (ACT), cAMP-activating agents, activate CREB and greatly synergize with LPS to induce IL-33 mRNA in macrophages. Both LPS-induced and ACT/LPS-enhanced expression of IL-33 mRNA was partially, but significantly, inhibited by the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 but not by tyrosine kinase or protein kinase C inhibitors. Two IL-33 mRNA species derived from two alternative promoters encode full-length IL-33; however, the shorter "A" species is preferentially induced by all IL-33-inducing agonists except Newcastle disease virus, a RIG-I agonist that induced expression of both "A" and "B" transcripts. Together, these studies greatly extend what is currently known about the regulation of IL-33 induction in macrophages stimulated by bacterial and viral agonists that engage distinct innate immune signaling pathways.
PKD2 and PKD3 promote prostate cancer cell invasion by modulating NF-B- and HDAC1-mediated expression and activation of uPA.	Although protein kinase D3 (PKD3) has been shown to contribute to prostate cancer cell growth and survival, the role of PKD in prostate cancer cell motility remains unclear. Here, we show that PKD2 and PKD3 promote nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) signaling and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) expression/activation, which are crucial for prostate cancer cell invasion. Silencing of endogenous PKD2 and/or PKD3 markedly decreased prostate cancer cell migration and invasion, reduced uPA and uPA receptor (uPAR) expression and increased plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) expression. These results were further substantiated by the finding that PKD2 and PKD3 promoted the activity of uPA and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9). Furthermore, depletion of PKD2 and/or PKD3 decreased the level of binding of the p65 subunit of NF-B to the promoter of the gene encoding uPA (PLAU), suppressing transcriptional activation of uPA. Endogenous PKD2 and PKD3 interacted with inhibitor of NF-B (IB) kinase  (IKK); PKD2 mainly regulated the phosphorylated IKK (pIKK)-phosphorylated IB (pIB)-IB degradation cascade, p65 nuclear translocation, and phosphorylation of Ser276 on p65, whereas PKD3 was responsible for the phosphorylation of Ser536 on p65. Conversely, inhibition of uPA transactivation by PKD3 silencing was rescued by constitutive Ser536 p65 phosphorylation, and reduced tumor cell invasion resulting from PKD2 or PKD3 silencing was rescued by ectopic expression of p65. Interestingly, PKD3 interacted with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), suppressing HDAC1 expression and decreasing its binding to the uPA promoter. Moreover, depletion of HDAC1 resulted in recovery of uPA transactivation in PKD3-knockdown cells. Taken together, these data suggest that PKD2 and PKD3 coordinate to promote prostate cancer cell invasion through p65 NF-B- and HDAC1-mediated expression and activation of uPA.
Epigenetic modification of liver mitochondrial DNA is associated with histological severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a clinical condition that refers to progressive histological changes ranging from simple steatosis (SS) to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We evaluated the status of cytosine methylation (5mC) of liver mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in selected regions of the mtDNA genome, such as D-loop control region, and mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 6 (MT-ND6) and cytochrome C oxidase I (MT-CO1), to contrast the hypothesis that epigenetic modifications play a role in the phenotypic switching from SS to NASH.
DNA binding specificity of ATAF2, a NAC domain transcription factor targeted for degradation by Tobacco mosaic virus.	Control of the host transcriptome represents a key battleground in the interaction of plants and pathogens. Specifically, plants have evolved complex defense systems that induce profound transcriptional changes in response to pathogen attack while pathogens have evolved mechanisms to subvert or disable these defenses. Several NAC transcription factors such as ATAF2 have been linked to plant defense responses, including those targeting viruses. The replication protein of Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) has been shown to interact with and target the degradation of ATAF2. These findings suggest that the transcriptional targets of ATAF2 are involved in defense against TMV.
NMI mediates transcription-independent ARF regulation in response to cellular stresses.	The ARF tumor suppressor is a product of the INK4a/ARF locus, which is frequently mutated in human cancer. The expression of ARF is up-regulated in response to certain types of DNA damage, oncogene activation, and interferon stimuli. Through interaction with the p53 negative regulator MDM2, ARF controls a well-described p53/MDM2-dependent checkpoint. However, the mechanism of ARF induction is poorly understood. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identify a novel ARF-interacting protein, N-Myc and STATs interactor (NMI). Previously, NMI was known to be a c-Myc-interacting protein. Here we demonstrate that through competitive binding to the ARF ubiquitin E3 ligase (ubiquitin ligase for ARF [ULF]), NMI protects ARF from ULF-mediated ubiquitin degradation. In response to cellular stresses, NMI is induced, and a fraction of NMI is translocated to the nucleus to stabilize ARF. Thus our work reveals a novel NMI-mediated, transcription-independent ARF induction pathway in response to cellular stresses.
Natural variation of C-repeat-binding factor (CBFs) genes is a major cause of divergence in freezing tolerance among a group of Arabidopsis thaliana populations along the Yangtze River in China.	We used a monophyletic group of four natural populations of Arabidopsis thaliana expanded from a single ancestor along the Yangtze River c. 90,000 yr ago to study the molecular mechanism of the divergence in their freezing tolerance, in order to gain an insight into the genetic basis of their local adaption to low temperatures. Freezing tolerance assays, measurements of metabolites in the raffinose biosynthesis pathway and transactivation-activity assays of variation in forms of cold-responsive transcription factors were conducted on the four populations. Quantitative trait locus mapping was adopted with F populations of the most- and least freezing-tolerant populations. The degree of freezing tolerance among the four populations was negatively correlated with the lowest monthly average temperature of January in their native habitats, and positively correlated to the expression level of some cold-regulated genes. We identified a major locus harboring three cold-responsive transcription factor genes CBF1-3, and found a nucleotide insertion in CBF2 in all populations except SXcgx, which generated a dysfunctional CBF2 protein. The CBF2 in SXcgx experienced a stronger natural selection in the cooler environment after CBF3 lost its response to low temperature, which possibly reflects a local adaptation of these populations during the expansion from a common ancestor.
Host genetic background impacts modulation of the TLR4 pathway by RON in tissue-associated macrophages.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) enable metazoans to mount effective innate immune responses to microbial and viral pathogens, as well as to endogenous host-derived ligands. It is understood that genetic background of the host can influence TLR responsiveness, altering susceptibility to pathogen infection, autoimmunity and cancer. Macrophage stimulatory protein (MSP), which activates the receptor tyrosine kinase recepteur d'origine nantais (RON), promotes key macrophage functions such as motility and phagocytic activity. MSP also acts via RON to modulate signaling by TLR4, which recognizes a range of pathogen or endogenous host-derived molecules. Here, we show that RON exerts divergent control over TLR4 activity in macrophages from different mouse genetic backgrounds. RON potently modulated the TLR4 response in macrophages from M2-prone FVB mice, as compared with M1-skewed C57Bl6 mice. Moreover, global expression analysis revealed that RON suppresses the TLR4-dependent type-I interferon gene signature only in FVB macrophages. This leads to attenuated production of the potent inflammatory mediator, tumor necrosis factor-. Eliminating RON kinase activity markedly decreased carcinogen-mediated tumorigenesis in M2/Th2-biased FVB mice. We propose that host genetic background influences RON function, thereby contributing to the variability in TLR4 responsiveness in rodents and, potentially, in humans. These findings provide novel insight into the complex interplay between genetic context and immune function. 
11-Hydroxydihydrotestosterone and 11-ketodihydrotestosterone, novel C19 steroids with androgenic activity: a putative role in castration resistant prostate cancer?	Adrenal C19 steroids, dehydroepiandrostenedione (DHEA(S)) and androstenedione (A4), play a critical role in castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) as they are metabolised to dihydrotestosterone (DHT), via testosterone (T), or via the alternate 5-dione pathway, bypassing T. Adrenal 11OHA4 metabolism in CRPC is, however, unknown. We present a novel pathway for 11OHA4 metabolism in CRPC leading to the production of 11ketoT (11KT) and novel 5-reduced C19 steroids - 11OH-5-androstanedione, 11keto-5-androstanedione, 11OHDHT and 11ketoDHT (11KDHT). The pathway was validated in the androgen-dependent prostate cancer cell line, LNCaP. Androgen receptor (AR) transactivation studies showed that while 11KT and 11OHDHT act as a partial AR agonists, 11KDHT is a full AR agonist exhibiting similar activity to DHT at 1nM. Our data demonstrates that, while 11OHA4 has negligible androgenic activity, its metabolism to 11KT and 11KDHT yields androgenic compounds which may be implicated, together with A4 and DHEA(S), in driving CRPC in the absence of testicular T.
The receptor AXL diversifies EGFR signaling and limits the response to EGFR-targeted inhibitors in triple-negative breast cancer cells.	The relationship between drug resistance, changes in signaling, and emergence of an invasive phenotype is well appreciated, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Using machine learning analysis applied to the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia database, we identified expression of AXL, the gene that encodes the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) AXL, as exceptionally predictive of lack of response to ErbB family receptor-targeted inhibitors. Activation of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) transactivated AXL, and this ligand-independent AXL activity diversified EGFR-induced signaling into additional downstream pathways beyond those triggered by EGFR alone. AXL-mediated signaling diversification was required for EGF (epidermal growth factor)-elicited motility responses in AXL-positive TNBC (triple-negative breast cancer) cells. Using cross-linking coimmunoprecipitation assays, we determined that AXL associated with EGFR, other ErbB receptor family members, MET (hepatocyte growth factor receptor), and PDGFR (platelet-derived growth factor receptor) but not IGF1R (insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor) or INSR (insulin receptor). From these AXL interaction data, we predicted AXL-mediated signaling synergy for additional RTKs and validated these predictions in cells. This alternative mechanism of receptor activation limits the use of ligand-blocking therapies and indicates against therapy withdrawal after acquired resistance. Further, subadditive interaction between EGFR- and AXL-targeted inhibitors across all AXL-positive TNBC cell lines may indicate that increased abundance of EGFR is principally a means to transactivation-mediated signaling. 
An alternative splice process renders the MLL protein either into a transcriptional activator or repressor.	The biological process of differentiation - from a fertilized egg to a human being - is a consecutive mechanism that leads to the establishment of tissue-specific gene expression, but also to a coordinated shut-down of all those genes that are not necessary for a given cell type. This process is accompanied by posttranslational modifications of the chromatin (DNA methylation and covalent histone modifications), also termed the "epigenetic layer". All epigenetic processes are mediated by protein complexes that either mediate specific DNA methylation patterns, or modify nucleosomal proteins in a covalent fashion (acetylation, methylation, phosphorylation and ubiquitinylation). One important player involved in epigenetics is the MLL protein which represents a histone H3 methyltransferase. The MLL gene gained much attention because of its frequent genetic rearrangements, thereby creating oncogenic MLL fusion genes that cause acute leukemia in pediatric and adult patients. This article is summarizing certain functional aspects about MLL, but is mainly emphasizing on an alternative splice event within the PHD domain. This changes the biological properties of the MLL protein, thereby influencing its ability of being either a transcriptional activator or repressor.
The haplotype-resolved genome and epigenome of the aneuploid HeLa cancer cell line.	The HeLa cell line was established in 1951 from cervical cancer cells taken from a patient, Henrietta Lacks. This was the first successful attempt to immortalize human-derived cells in vitro. The robust growth and unrestricted distribution of HeLa cells resulted in its broad adoption--both intentionally and through widespread cross-contamination--and for the past 60years it has served a role analogous to that of a model organism. The cumulative impact of the HeLa cell line on research is demonstrated by its occurrence in more than 74,000 PubMed abstracts (approximately 0.3%). The genomic architecture of HeLa remains largely unexplored beyond its karyotype, partly because like many cancers, its extensive aneuploidy renders such analyses challenging. We carried out haplotype-resolved whole-genome sequencing of the HeLa CCL-2 strain, examined point- and indel-mutation variations, mapped copy-number variations and loss of heterozygosity regions, and phased variants across full chromosome arms. We also investigated variation and copy-number profiles for HeLa S3 and eight additional strains. We find that HeLa is relatively stable in terms of point variation, with few new mutations accumulating after early passaging. Haplotype resolution facilitated reconstruction of an amplified, highly rearranged region of chromosome 8q24.21 at which integration of the human papilloma virus type 18 (HPV-18) genome occurred and that is likely to be the event that initiated tumorigenesis. We combined these maps with RNA-seq and ENCODE Project data sets to phase the HeLa epigenome. This revealed strong, haplotype-specific activation of the proto-oncogene MYC by the integrated HPV-18 genome approximately 500kilobases upstream, and enabled global analyses of the relationship between gene dosage and expression. These data provide an extensively phased, high-quality reference genome for past and future experiments relying on HeLa, and demonstrate the value of haplotype resolution for characterizing cancer genomes and epigenomes.
Nonclassical hedgehog-GLI signaling and its clinical implications.	Hedgehog (Hh) signaling regulates embryonic patterning and organ morphogenesis. It is also involved in regeneration and repair of tissues. Aberrant Hh pathway activation is a feature of many human malignancies. Classical Hh signaling is activated by Hh ligands that can signal in an autocrine or paracrine manner generating a tumor-stromal crosstalk. In contrast to canonical Hh signaling that culminates in the activation of GLI transcription factors, "noncanonical" Hh signaling does not involve GLI transcriptional activity. Several Hh pathway inhibitors have progressed to clinical trials, where the outcomes have not been very encouraging in many solid tumors. Here we discuss the likely role of "nonclassical" Hh-GLI signaling that is activated by growth factors and cytokines from the tumor and/or its microenvironment; these uncouple Hh signaling from the vital regulatory protein Smoothened, and result in the activation of GLI. While efforts are being made to target tumor-intrinsic Hh targets, it is imperative to acknowledge the role of the complex molecular networks and crosstalk between different components of the tumor microenvironment that can result in the emergence of resistance to conventional Hh therapy. These considerations have an important bearing on appreciating the need to mitigate the effects of tumor microenvironment to combat resistance to Hh inhibitors. 
The bHLH subgroup IIId factors negatively regulate jasmonate-mediated plant defense and development.	Plants have evolved sophisticated systems for adaptation to their natural habitat. In response to developmental and environmental cues, plants produce and perceive jasmonate (JA) signals, which induce degradation of JASMONATE-ZIM-Domain (JAZ) proteins and derepress the JAZ-repressed transcription factors to regulate diverse aspects of defense responses and developmental processes. Here, we identified the bHLH subgroup IIId transcription factors (bHLH3, bHLH13, bHLH14 and bHLH17) as novel targets of JAZs. These bHLH subgroup IIId transcription factors act as transcription repressors and function redundantly to negatively regulate JA responses. The quadruple mutant bhlh3 bhlh13 bhlh14 bhlh17 showed severe sensitivity to JA-inhibited root growth and JA-induced anthocyanin accumulation, and exhibited obvious increase in JA-regulated plant defense against pathogen infection and insect attack. Transgenic plants overexpressing bHLH13 or bHLH17 displayed reduced JA responses. Furthermore, these bHLH factors functioned as transcription repressors to antagonize the transcription activators, such as MYC2 and the WD-repeat/bHLH/MYB complex, through binding to their target sequences. Coordinated regulation of JA responses by transcription activators and repressors would benefit plants by allowing fine regulation of defense and development, and survival in their frequently changing environment.
Soybean GmbZIP123 gene enhances lipid content in the seeds of transgenic Arabidopsis plants.	Soybean is one of most important oil crops and a significant increase in lipid content in soybean seeds would facilitate vegetable oil production in the world. Although the pathways for lipid biosynthesis in higher plants have been uncovered, our understanding of regulatory mechanism controlling lipid accumulation is still limited. In this study, we identified 87 transcription factor genes with a higher abundance at the stage of lipid accumulation in soybean seeds. One of these genes, GmbZIP123, was selected to further study its function in regulation of lipid accumulation. Overexpression of GmbZIP123 enhanced lipid content in the seeds of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants. The GmbZIP123 transgene promoted expression of two sucrose transporter genes (SUC1 and SUC5) and three cell-wall invertase genes (cwINV1, cwINV3, and cwINV6) by binding directly to the promoters of these genes. Consistently, the cell-wall invertase activity and sugar translocation were all enhanced in siliques of GmbZIP123 transgenic plants. Higher levels of glucose, fructose, and sucrose were also found in seeds of GmbZIP123 transgenic plants. These results suggest that GmbZIP123 may participate in regulation of lipid accumulation in soybean seeds by controlling sugar transport into seeds from photoautotrophic tissues. This study provides novel insights into the regulatory mechanism for lipid accumulation in seeds and may facilitate improvements in oil production in soybean and other oil crops through genetic manipulation of the GmbZIP123 gene. 
Hepatocyte nuclear factor 6 suppresses the migration and invasive growth of lung cancer cells through p53 and the inhibition of epithelial-mesenchymal transition.	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition plays an important role in many patho-physiological processes, including cancer invasion and metastatic progression. Hepatocyte nuclear factor 6 (HNF6) has been known to be an important factor for both physiological and pathological functions in liver and pancreas. However, its role in EMT and lung cancer progression remains unidentified. We observed that HNF6 level can be down-regulated by TGF-1 in human lung cancer cells. Knockdown of HNF6 induced EMT and increased cell migration. In contrast, ectopically expression of HNF6 inhibited cell migration and attenuated TGF-1-induced EMT. The data suggest that HNF6 plays a role in maintaining epithelial phenotype, which suppresses EMT. HNF6 also inhibits both colony formation and proliferation of lung cancer cells. It pronouncedly reduced the formation of tumor xenografts in nude mice. In addition, HNF6 can activate the promoter activity of p53 by directly binding to a specific region of its promoter and therefore increase the protein level of tumor suppressor p53. p53 knockdown induced EMT and increased cell migration, whereas the opposite effect was generated by p53 overexpression. p53 knockdown also inhibited the effect of HNF6 on EMT and cell migration, indicating that p53 is required for the functions of HNF6 herein. Moreover, there is a high positive correlation among the expression levels of HNF6, p53, and E-cadherin in human lung cancer cells and tissues. The data suggest that HNF6 inhibits EMT, cell migration, and invasive growth through a mechanism involving the transcriptional activation of p53. 
High-level expression of Bacillus naganoensis pullulanase from recombinant Escherichia coli with auto-induction: effect of lac operator.	Pullulanase plays an important role in specific hydrolysis of branch points in amylopectin and is generally employed as an important enzyme in starch-processing industry. So far, however, the production level of pullulanase is still somewhat low from wide-type strains and even heterologous expression systems. Here the gene encoding Bacillus naganoensis pullulanase was amplified and cloned. For expression of the protein, two recombinant systems, Escherichia coli BL21(DE3)/pET-20b(+)-pul and E. coli BL21(DE3)/pET-22b(+)-pul, were constructed, both bearing T7 promoter and signal peptide sequence, but different in the existance of lac operator and lacI gene encoding lac repressor. Recombinant pullulanase was initially expressed with the activity of up to 14 U/mL by E. coli BL21(DE3)/pET-20b(+)-pul with IPTG induction in LB medium, but its expression level reduced continually with the extension of cryopreservation time and basal expression was observed. However, E. coli BL21(DE3)/pET-22b(+)-pul , involving lac operator downstream of T7 promoter to regulate foreign gene transcription, exhibited pullulanase activity consistently without detected basal expression. By investigating the effect of lac operator, basal expression of foreign protein was found to cause expression instability and negative effect on production of target protein. Thus double-repression strategy was proposed that lac operators in both chromosome and plasmid were bound with lac repressor to repress T7 RNA polymerase synthesis and target protein expression before induction. Consequently, the total activity of pullulanase was remarkably increased to 580 U/mL with auto-induction by lac operator-involved E. coli BL21(DE3)/pET-22b(+)-pul. When adding 0.6% glycine in culture, the extracellular production of pullulanase was significantly improved with the extracellular activity of 502 U/mL, which is a relatively higher level achieved to date for extracellular production of pullulanase. The successful expression of pullulanase with lac operator regulation provides an efficient way for enhancement of expression stability and hence high-level production of target protein in recombinant E. coli. 
Long and noncoding RNAs (lnc-RNAs) determine androgen receptor dependent gene expression in prostate cancer growth in vivo.	Hyperactive androgen receptor (AR) activity remains a key determinant of the onset and progression of prostate cancer and resistance to current therapies. The mechanisms governing castrate resistant prostate cancer are poorly understood, but defining these molecular events is essential in order to impact deaths from prostate cancer. Yang et al. demonstrate that two lnc-RNAs known to be overexpressed in therapy resistant prostate cancer, PRNCR1 (also known as PCAT8) and PCGEM1, bound to the AR to enhance ligand-dependent and ligand-independent AR gene expression and proliferation of prostate cancer cells.1 The sequence of these interactions involved the binding of PRNCR1 to the acetylated AR and a subsequent association of DOT1L, which was required for the sequential recruitment of the lncRNA PCGEM1 to the AR amino terminus, which in turn was methylated by DOT1L.
Nuclear architecture as an epigenetic regulator of neural development and function.	The nervous system of higher organisms is characterized by an enormous diversity of cell types that function in concert to carry out a myriad of neuronal functions. Differences in connectivity, and subsequent physiology of the connected neurons, are a result of differences in transcriptional programs. The extraordinary complexity of the nervous system requires an equally complex regulatory system. It is well established that transcription factor combinations and the organization of cis-regulatory sequences control commitment to differentiation programs and preserve a nuclear plasticity required for neuronal functions. However, an additional level of regulation is provided by epigenetic controls. Among various epigenetic processes, nuclear organization and the control of genome architecture emerge as an efficient and powerful form of gene regulation that meets the unique needs of the post-mitotic neuron. Here, we present an outline of how nuclear architecture affects transcription and provide examples from the recent literature where these principles are used by the nervous system. 
Intracellular ascorbate enhances hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-hydroxylase activity and preferentially suppresses the HIF-1 transcriptional response.	Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 drives the transcription of hundreds of genes to support cell survival under conditions of microenvironmental and metabolic stress. HIF-1 is downregulated by iron-containing 2-oxoglutarate-dependent enzymes that require ascorbate as a cofactor. The HIF hydroxylases control both protein stability and the formation of an active transcription complex and, consequently, ascorbate could affect HIF-1 stabilization and/or gene expression, but the relative effect of ascorbate on these separate processes has not been well characterized. In this study we examined the effects of known intracellular ascorbate concentrations on both processes in response to various means of hydroxylase inhibition, including CoCl2, NiCl2, desferrioxamine, dimethyloxalylglycine, and hypoxia. Ascorbate inhibited HIF-1 activity most dramatically with all mechanisms of iron competition. In addition, HIF-1-dependent gene expression was effectively prevented by ascorbate and was inhibited even under conditions that allowed HIF-1 protein stabilization. This suggests that (1) ascorbate acts primarily to stabilize and reduce the iron atom in the hydroxylase active site and (2) the asparagine hydroxylase controlling HIF-1 transcriptional activity is particularly susceptible to fluctuations in intracellular ascorbate. These findings suggest that ascorbate plays a significant role in supporting HIF-hydroxylase function and that it could thereby modulate the cell survival response. 
A kinase-independent activity of Cdk9 modulates glucocorticoid receptor-mediated gene induction.	A gene induction competition assay has recently uncovered new inhibitory activities of two transcriptional cofactors, NELF-A and NELF-B, in glucocorticoid-regulated transactivation. NELF-A and -B are also components of the NELF complex, which participates in RNA polymerase II pausing shortly after the initiation of gene transcription. We therefore asked if cofactors (Cdk9 and ELL) best known to affect paused polymerase could reverse the effects of NELF-A and -B. Unexpectedly, Cdk9 and ELL augmented, rather than prevented, the effects of NELF-A and -B. Furthermore, Cdk9 actions are not blocked either by Ckd9 inhibitors (DRB or flavopiridol) or by two Cdk9 mutants defective in kinase activity. The mode and site of action of NELF-A and -B mutants with an altered NELF domain are similarly affected by wild-type and kinase-dead Cdk9. We conclude that Cdk9 is a new modulator of GR action, that Ckd9 and ELL have novel activities in GR-regulated gene expression, that NELF-A and -B can act separately from the NELF complex, and that Cdk9 possesses activities that are independent of Cdk9 kinase activity. Finally, the competition assay has succeeded in ordering the site of action of several cofactors of GR transactivation. Extension of this methodology should be helpful in determining the site and mode of action of numerous additional cofactors and in reducing unwanted side effects. 
Viral-human chimeric transcript predisposes risk to liver cancer development and progression.	The mutagenic effect of hepatitis B (HBV) integration in predisposing risk to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains elusive. In this study, we performed transcriptome sequencing of HBV-positive HCC cell lines and showed transcription of viral-human gene fusions from the site of genome integrations. We discovered tumor-promoting properties of a chimeric HBx-LINE1 that, intriguingly, functions as a hybrid RNA. HBx-LINE1 can be detected in 23.3% of HBV-associated HCC tumors and correlates with poorer patient survival. HBx-LINE1 transgenic mice showed heightened susceptibility to diethylnitrosamine-induced tumor formation. We further show that HBx-LINE1 expression affects -catenin transactivity, which underlines a role in activating Wnt signaling. Thus, this study identifies a viral-human chimeric fusion transcript that functions like a long noncoding RNA to promote HCC. 
The transcription factor BATF operates as an essential differentiation checkpoint in early effector CD8+ T cells.	The transcription factor BATF is required for the differentiation of interleukin 17 (IL-17)-producing helper T cells (TH17 cells) and follicular helper T cells (TFH cells). Here we identified a fundamental role for BATF in regulating the differentiation of effector of CD8(+) T cells. BATF-deficient CD8(+) T cells showed profound defects in effector population expansion and underwent proliferative and metabolic catastrophe early after encountering antigen. BATF, together with the transcription factors IRF4 and Jun proteins, bound to and promoted early expression of genes encoding lineage-specific transcription-factors (T-bet and Blimp-1) and cytokine receptors while paradoxically repressing genes encoding effector molecules (IFN- and granzyme B). Thus, BATF amplifies T cell antigen receptor (TCR)-dependent expression of transcription factors and augments the propagation of inflammatory signals but restrains the expression of genes encoding effector molecules. This checkpoint prevents irreversible commitment to an effector fate until a critical threshold of downstream transcriptional activity has been achieved. 
The adaptor TRAF5 limits the differentiation of inflammatory CD4(+) T cells by antagonizing signaling via the receptor for IL-6.	The physiological functions of members of the tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor (TNFR)-associated factor (TRAF) family in T cell immunity are not well understood. We found that in the presence of interleukin 6 (IL-6), naive TRAF5-deficient CD4(+) T cells showed an enhanced ability to differentiate into the TH17 subset of helper T cells. Accordingly, TH17 cell-associated experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was greatly exaggerated in Traf5(-/-) mice. Although it is normally linked with TNFR signaling pathways, TRAF5 constitutively associated with a cytoplasmic region in the signal-transducing receptor gp130 that overlaps with the binding site for the transcription activator STAT3 and suppressed the recruitment and activation of STAT3 in response to IL-6. Our results identify TRAF5 as a negative regulator of the IL-6 receptor signaling pathway that limits the induction of proinflammatory CD4(+) T cells that require IL-6 for their development. 
Sublytic C5b-9 triggers glomerular mesangial cell apoptosis via XAF1 gene activation mediated by p300-dependent IRF-1 acetylation.	The apoptosis of glomerular mesangial cells (GMCs) in rat Thy-1 nephritis (Thy-1N), a model of human mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis (MsPGN), is accompanied by sublytic C5b-9 deposition. However, the mechanism by which sublytic C5b-9 induces GMC apoptosis is unclear. In the present studies, the effect of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis-associated factor 1 (XAF1) expression on GMC apoptosis and the role of p300 and interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) in mediating XAF1 gene activation were determined, both in the GMCs induced by sublytic C5b-9 (in vitro) and in the renal tissues of rats with Thy-1N (in vivo). The in vitro studies demonstrated that IRF-1-enhanced XAF1 gene activation and its regulation by p300-mediated IRF-1 acetylation were involved in GMC apoptosis induced by sublytic C5b-9. The element of IRF-1 binding to XAF1 promoter and two acetylated sites of IRF-1 protein were also revealed. In vivo, silence of p300, IRF-1 or XAF1 genes in the renal tissues diminished GMC apoptosis and secondary GMC proliferation as well as urinary protein secretion in Thy-1N rats. Together, these data implicate that sublytic C5b-9 induces the expression of both p300 and IRF-1, as well as p300-dependent IRF-1 acetylation that may contribute to XAF1 gene activation and subsequent GMC apoptosis in Thy-1N rats. 
Raf-1 kinase and ERK2 uncoupled from mitogenic signals in rat fibroblasts.	The MAP kinase pathway impinging on ERK2 has been shown to be integrally associated with mitogenic signalling in many cell types. Previously, we and others have demonstrated that oncogenic forms of Raf-1 kinase, when expressed in fibroblasts, lead to the constitutive activation of ERK2, the de-regulation of c-fos expression and increased cell proliferation. Here we describe an exception to this scenario. In Rat6 cells, although both ERK1 and ERK2 are activated in response to mitogens that induce c-fos expression, such as Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) or serum, expression of v-Raf fails to induce c-fos expression and increase proliferation. However, ERK2 is activated by v-Raf expression. The co-transfection of an interfering mutant of ERK2 has no effect on the level of c-fos reporter expression in Rat6 cells whereas the analogous ERK1 mutant reduces its expression. Furthermore, the spontaneous focus formation observed in Rat6 cells is susceptible to the interfering mutant of ERK1 but resistant to that of ERK2. Thus, not only do mitogenic signals appear to by-pass both Raf-1 kinase and ERK2, the Raf-1-ERK2 pathway seems to be functionally compromised in Rat6 cells as its activation leads neither to c-fos expression nor to increased proliferation.
Functional analysis of aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator interactions with aryl hydrocarbon receptor in the yeast two-hybrid system.	The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) mediates dioxin (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin)-induced transcriptional activation of a battery of genes by interaction with a cofactor, called aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein. Both AHR and ARNT belong to a family of proteins that includes the Drosophila circadian-rhythm protein and "single-minded" protein. These proteins share a domain called the PAS domain. In addition to the PAS domain, both AHR and ARNT contain basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) and glutamine (Q)-rich domains. The roles of these domains in the receptor-mediated transcriptional activation are not understood completely. By using the yeast two-hybrid system with the N-terminal half of AHR as a probe, which contains the bHLH and PAS regions, to screen cDNA libraries prepared from human lymphocytes and C57BL mouse liver for clones encoding proteins capable of binding to these regions, we isolated a partial ARNT cDNA clone. These results demonstrated that the N-terminal half of AHR is capable of interacting with ARNT in yeast (probably through the bHLH motif). A fusion protein containing the GAL4 DNA binding domain (DB) linked to the full-length AHR was not capable of activating expression of a reporter gene containing the GAL4 DNA binding site, suggesting that ligand-free AHR alone has no transactivating properties in yeast. However, the C-terminal portion (amino acid residues 580-797) of the AHR, including the Q-rich domain, could confer transactivation of the reporter gene expression in the same system, suggesting that the N-terminal portion of the AHR contains transcription repression properties. In contrast, GAL4(DB)-ARNT fusion protein was able to activate expression of the same reporter gene. Deletion analysis of ARNT revealed that the C-terminal 75 amino acids, including the Q-rich domain, exhibited full transactivation function in yeast and mammalian cells. These results revealed different structural organizations for the transactivation properties between AHR and ARNT, although both contained transactivation domains at the C-termini.
The leucine zipper of Aeromonas salmonicida AbcA is required for the transcriptional activation of the P2 promoter of the surface-layer structural gene, vapA, in Escherichia coli.	The Aeromonas salmonicida AbcA protein is involved in the synthesis of the O-polysaccharide side-chains on the lipopolysaccharide and is also capable of enhancing the expression of the structural gene for the A-layer, vapA, when cloned into Escherichia coli. The P2 promoter of the vapA gene of A. salmonicida was cloned into a promoter probe vector and expression in E. coli was monitored. The expression of P2::lacZ was shown to be increased when abcA was provided in trans. AbcA contains an N-terminal ATP-binding domain as well as a C-terminal leucine zipper domain. Site-directed mutagenesis has been used to show that the ATP-binding domain is required for the synthesis of the O-polysaccharide side-chains, but not for the enhancement of vapA expression. Conversely, the leucine zipper is needed for the increase in vapA expression, but not for O-polysaccharide side-chain synthesis. This indicates that AbcA is a bifunctional protein that can influence the synthesis of the two principle antigenic components of the A. salmonicida cell surface.
Molecular cloning and characterization of a TAR-binding nuclear factor from T cells.	The TAt protein of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) activates the expression of viral mRNA through a cis-acting element in the LTR termed TAR. TAR RNA forms a stable stem-loop structure. Mutagenesis studies indicate that the stem structure, the primary sequence of the loop, and three unpaired bases in the stem (bulge) are important for Tat activation. Using the in vitro-transcribed TAR RNA as a probe, we have cloned a gene (TARBP-b) that encodes a TAR-binding protein from a cDNA expression library derived from Hut-78 cells. Expression of the 1.4-kb TARBP-b mRNA was observed in all mammalian cell lines tested. TARBP-b binds specifically to the bulge region of TAR RNA and trans-activates the HIV-1 long terminal repeat in the presence of ptat and prev expression plasmids. These results suggest that TARBP-b contributes to tat-mediated trans-activation.
Transcriptional activation of minimal HIV-1 promoter by ORF-1 protein expressed from the SalI-L fragment of human herpesvirus 6.	The SalI-L fragment of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) strain U1102 transformed rodent cells and transactivated the HIV-1 LTR 10- to 15-fold in both monkey fibroblasts and human T-lymphocytes. In this report, the SalI-L transactivator of the HIV-1 LTR was localized to ORF-1 which codes for a protein of 357 amino acids. To determine if ORF-1 required functional Sp1 binding sites or the TATA box element of HIV-1 LTR for transactivation, 5'-deletion mutants of the HIV-1 LTR were employed. Plasmids pBS/SalI-L, pBS/SalI-L-SH, and pC6/ORF-1(S), a mammalian expression vector containing ORF-1, all transactivated a deletion mutant of HIV-1 LTR lacking functional Sp1 binding sites (CD-54). These studies demonstrate that transactivation occurred in the absence of Sp1 binding sites and required only a minimal HIV-1 promoter which contains the TATA box element. The specificity of the SalI-L transactivator for HIV-1 LTR was demonstrated by its inability to transactivate the human papillomavirus type 16 or 18 early promoters. The ORF-1 gene was cloned into and expressed from the pET17b bacterial expression vector. Purified ORF-1 protein was obtained by ammonium sulfate precipitation, Mono-S chromatography, and anti-T7. Tag immunoaffinity chromatography. Transactivation of the HIV-1 LTR by ORF-1 protein was demonstrated by electroporation studies in vivo and by transcription studies in vitro. To substantiate the putative biological role of ORF-1, pBS/SalI-L, pBS/SalI-L-SH, and pC6/ORF-1 all reactivated tat-defective HIV-1 provirus from latently infected cells expressing CD4. Thus, the data presented suggest that HHV-6 infection could have a cofactor role in the progression of AIDS.
Epigenetic regulation of the maize Spm transposable element: novel activation of a methylated promoter by TnpA.	Spm is epigenetically inactivated by C-methylation near its transcription start site. We have investigated the interaction between TnpA, an autoregulatory protein that can reactivate a silent Spm, and the promoter of the element. The promoter undergoes rapid de novo methylation and inactivation in stably transformed plants, but only if it includes a GC-rich sequence down-stream of the promoter. TnpA activates the inactive, methylated promoter and leads to reduced methylation. By contrast, TnpA represses the active, unmethylated Spm promoter. Only the internal DNA-binding and dimerization domains of the protein are required for repression, while activation requires an additional C-terminal sequence. TnpA is therefore a unique regulatory protein with a conventional transcriptional repressor activity and a novel ability to activate a methylated, inactive promoter.
Competition between chromatin and transcription complex assembly regulates gene expression during early development.	Xenopus early development is characterized by a generalized absence of transcription, which resumes at the midblastula transition (MBT). We analyzed this regulation using a plasmid containing the c-myc promoter that is under the same developmental control when injected into fertilized eggs. We find that the repression of transcription can be relieved simply by preincubating the reporter plasmid with TATA binding protein (TBP). However, the repression of gene activity normally occurring before the MBT soon becomes dominant over this activation independent of cell cycle phases. This inactivation correlates with chromatin assembly, and titration of chromatin components not only relieves repression of TBP-dependent transcription but also permits the establishment of stable transcription during early development. Our data suggest that the large excess of histones represses gene activity during early development through a dynamic competition between chromatin assembly and transcription complex assembly.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 tat gene enhances human papillomavirus early gene expression.	To investigate the possible direct/indirect role of Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as a cofactor in human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogenesis, cotransfection experiments were carried out in which a recombinant plasmid containing the HPV16 long control region (LCR) linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene was cotransfected into cultured cells with a plasmid expressing HIV-1 Tat protein. Tat expression efficiency and transactivation activity were evaluated in different cell lines by cotransfecting plasmids containing the HIV tat gene and HIV LTR-driven CAT-coding sequences. HeLa and CaSki cell lines represented the most appropriate recipient cells for Tat-directed transactivation of both the HIV LTR and the HPV LCR promoters. Furthermore, HIV tat was transfected into HeLa cells (containing 10-20 copies per cell of HPV18), and HPV18 E7 protein expression was evaluated by a radioimmunoprecipitation assay using polyclonal antibodies against the E7 protein. Our results show that the Tat protein can transactivate the HPV LCR and increase HPV18 E7 expression in HeLa cells.
c-Myc induces the expression and activity of ornithine decarboxylase.	The role of the product of the c-myc protooncogene in the regulation of cellular proliferation and differentiation is well established. Recent reports that c-Myc can serve as a sequence-specific transcriptional activator have begun to elucidate the mechanism by which c-Myc exerts such a profound effect on the mitotic status of a cell. To identify a potential target gene for Myc-mediated trans-activation, we examined the regulation of the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) gene by c-Myc. ODC is the first and rate-limiting enzyme involved in the synthesis of the polyamines and has been shown to be required for entry into and progression through the cell cycle. Using a conditionally active c-Myc-estrogen receptor chimeric protein, we found estrogen-dependent activation of ODC expression and enzymatic activity. The induction of ODC mRNA expression was not dependent upon de novo protein synthesis. These data suggest that one downstream pathway for Myc-directed cell cycle control is the induction of ODC expression.
Nuclear translocation of an exogenous fusion protein containing HIV Tat requires unfolding.	To characterize the transcellular transport of HIV-1 Tat. HIV-1 Tat contains a putative localization signal and no leader peptide; however, it can be released from virus-infected cells and taken up by uninfected cells.
Interaction of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pho2 with Pho4 increases the accessibility of the activation domain of Pho4.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, expression of acid phosphatase, encoded by the PHO5 gene, requires two positive regulatory factors, Pho4 and Pho2 (also called Bas2 or Grf10). Using GAL4-PHO4 fusions, we demonstrate that a functional interaction between these two proteins is necessary for transcriptional activation to occur. This functional interaction between Pho4 and Pho2 is independent of the presence of the negative regulatory factor, Pho80, which also interacts with Pho4. Interestingly, truncations of Pho4 missing amino acids 252-265, which encompass the basic region of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) DNA binding motif, exhibit high transcriptional activation that is independent of the Pho2 molecule. Single amino acid mutations of highly conserved residues within this area all display this Pho2-independent phenotype. A region near the C-terminus of Pho2 appears to be critical for this interaction with Pho4. A model to account for the requirement for Pho2 in Pho4-dependent transcriptional activation is proposed.
Transcription: basal factors and activation.	Much progress has been made in the past few years in understanding the mechanism and regulation of mRNA synthesis. This rapid progress has largely been due to the availability of cloned genes encoding components of the transcription machinery. Structural and biochemical studies are rapidly defining the architecture of components in the transcription complex. Highly purified biochemical systems are beginning to elucidate the role of the individual initiation factors. The identification of a large complex that contains a polymerase, termed holoenzyme, has provided a new way of thinking about how the transcription complex assembles at a promoter. The mechanism of transcription stimulation by activators is beginning to be unraveled but still appears to be a complex process. Finally, analyses of genes involved in DNA repair, cell cycle control and transcription have revealed similarities between transcription and other forms of cell regulation.
Identification of polymorphic mutant alleles of CaMDR1, a major facilitator of Candida albicans which confers multidrug resistance, and its in vitro transcriptional activation.	CaMDR1 (Candida albicans Multi Drug Resistance) encodes a major facilitator whose expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae confers resistance to several unrelated drugs. We describe here the identification and molecular characterization of seven mutant alleles of CaMDR1 (CaMDR1-1 to 1-7). The complete sequencing of CaMDR1 alleles revealed several in-frame point mutations leading to a change in amino-acid residues where insertion/replacement of an aspartate residue in a serine-asparagine-aspartate-rich domain was most noteworthy. Interestingly, these alleles showed a distinct drug resistance profile. The expression of CaMDR1, or of its alleles, in C. albicans cells was enhanced by benomyl, methotrexate and several other unrelated drugs, and was more pronounced in at least one of the azole-resistant clinical isolates.
Contributions of the domains of the Bacillus subtilis response regulator Spo0A to transcription stimulation of the spoIIG operon.	Spo0A is a response regulator that controls entry into sporulation by specifically stimulating or repressing transcription of critical developmental genes. Response regulators have at least two domains: an output transcription regulation domain and a receiver domain that inhibits the output domain. Phosphorylation of the receiver domain relieves the inhibition. We examined the in vitro transcription activation mechanism for Spo0A, phosphorylated Spo0A (Spo0A approximately P), and a deletion mutant that consists solely of the C-terminal output domain (Spo0ABD). Both Spo0A approximately P and Spo0ABD stimulated transcription from the spoIIG promoter 10-fold more efficiently than Spo0A. Spo0A approximately P and Spo0ABD induced DNA denaturation by RNA polymerase in the -10 recognition region, whereas Spo0A did not. DNase I footprint assays revealed that phosphorylation enhanced binding of intact Spo0A to the 0A boxes, while the binding of Spo0ABD was similar to that of Spo0A. Thus, activation of Spo0A by phosphorylation is not primarily due to enhanced DNA binding. The presence of a phosphorylated N terminus increased the stability of the ternary complex at the spoIIG promoter. We propose that the primary effect of phosphorylation is to expose an RNA polymerase interaction domain to promote transcription from PspoIIG.
The DNA replication-related element (DRE)/DRE-binding factor system is a transcriptional regulator of the Drosophila E2F gene.	Two mRNA species were observed for the Drosophila E2F (dE2F) gene, differing with regard to the first exons (exon 1-a and exon 1-b), which were expressed differently during development. A single transcription initiation site for mRNA containing exon 1-b was mapped by primer extension analysis and numbered +1. We found three tandemly aligned sequences, similar to the DNA replication-related element (DRE; 5'-TATCGATA), which is commonly required for transcription of genes related to DNA replication and cell proliferation, in the region upstream of this site. Band mobility shift analyses using oligonucleotides containing the DRE-related sequences with or without various base substitutions revealed that two out of three DRE-related sequences are especially important for binding to the DRE-binding factor (DREF). On footprinting analysis with Kc cell nuclear extracts and a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein with the N-terminal fragment (1-125 amino acid residues) of DREF, all three DRE-related sequences were found to be protected. Transient luciferase expression assays in Kc cells demonstrated that the region containing the three DRE-related sequences is required for high promoter activity. We have established transgenic lines of Drosophila in which ectopic expression of DREF was targeted to the eye imaginal disc cells. Overexpression of DREF in eye imaginal disc cells enhanced the promoter activity of dE2F. The obtained results indicate that the DRE/DREF system activates transcription of the dE2F gene.
Stimulation of p53-mediated transcriptional activation by the p53-binding proteins, 53BP1 and 53BP2.	p53 is a tumor suppressor protein that controls cell proliferation by regulating the expression of growth control genes. In a previous study, we identified two proteins, 53BP1 and 53BP2, that are able to bind to wild type but not to mutant p53 via the DNA-binding domain of p53. We isolated cDNAs expressing a full-length human 53BP1 clone, which predicts a protein of 1972 residues that can be detected in the H358 human lung carcinoma cell line. The 53BP1 and 53BP2 genes were mapped to chromosomes 15q15-21 and 1q41-42, respectively. Immunofluorescence studies showed three types of staining patterns for 53BP1 as follows: both cytoplasmic and nuclear, homogeneous nuclear, and a nuclear dot pattern. In contrast, 53BP2 localized exclusively to the cytoplasm, and this pattern did not change upon coexpression of wild type p53. Although our previous study revealed that p53 is not able to bind simultaneously to either 53BP1 or 53BP2 and to DNA carrying a consensus binding site, both 53BP1 and 53BP2 enhanced p53-mediated transcriptional activation and induced the expression of a p53-dependent protein, suggesting that these proteins might function in signal transduction pathways to promote p53 activity.
Transcriptional regulation of the generic promoter III of the rat prolactin receptor gene by C/EBPbeta and Sp1.	Three promoters are operative in the rat prolactin receptor gene as follows: promoter I (PI) and II (PII) are specific for the gonads and liver, respectively, and promoter III (PIII) is common to several tissues. To investigate the mechanisms controlling the activity of promoter III, its regulatory elements and transcription factors were characterized in gonadal and non-gonadal cells. The TATA-less PIII domain was localized to the region -437 to -179 (ATG +1) containing the 5'-flanking region and part of the non-coding first exon. Within the promoter domain, a functional CAAT-box/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) (-398) and an Sp1 element (-386), which bind C/EBPbeta and Sp1/Sp3, respectively, contribute individually to promoter activation in gonadal and non-gonadal cells. However, significant redundancy was demonstrated between these elements in non-gonadal cells. Additionally, an element within the non-coding exon 1 (-338) is also required for promoter activity. Activation of PIII by the widely expressed Sp1 and C/EBPbeta factors explains its common utilization in multiple tissues. Moreover, whereas the rat and mouse PIII share similar structure and function, the mouse PI lacks the functional SF-1 element and hence is inactive. These findings indicate that promoter III is of central importance in prolactin receptor gene transcription across species.
Mutation analysis of PobR and PcaU, closely related transcriptional activators in acinetobacter.	Acinetobacter PobR and PcaU are transcriptional activators that closely resemble each other in primary structure, DNA-binding sites, metabolic modulators, and physiological function. PobR responds to the inducer-metabolite p-hydroxybenzoate and activates transcription of pobA, the structural gene for the enzyme that converts p-hydroxybenzoate to protocatechuate. This compound, differing from p-hydroxybenzoate only in that it contains an additional oxygen atom, binds to PcaU and thereby specifically activates transcription of the full set of genes for protocatechuate catabolism. Particular experimental attention has been paid to PobR and PcaU from Acinetobacter strain ADP1, which exhibits exceptional competence for natural transformation. This trait allowed selection of mutant strains in which pobR function had been impaired by nucleotide substitutions introduced by PCR replication errors. Contrary to expectation, the spectrum of amino acids whose substitution led to loss of function in PobR shows no marked similarity to the spectrum of amino acids conserved by the demand for continued function during evolutionary divergence of PobR, PcaU, and related proteins. Surface plasmon resonance was used to determine the ability of mutant PobR proteins to bind to DNA in the pobA-pobR intergenic region. Deleterious mutations that strongly affect DNA binding all cluster in and around the PobR region that contains a helix-turn-helix motif, whereas mutations causing defects in the central portion of the PobR primary sequence do not seem to have a significant effect on operator binding. PCR-generated mutations allowing PobR to mimic PcaU function invariably caused a T57A amino acid substitution, making the helix-turn-helix sequence of PobR more like that of PcaU. The mutant PobR depended on p-hydroxybenzoate for its activity, but this dependence could be relieved by any of six amino acid substitutions in the center of the PobR primary sequence. Independent mutations allowing PcaU to mimic PobR activity were shown to be G222V amino acid substitutions in the C terminus of the 274-residue protein. Together, the analyses suggest that PobR and PcaU possess a linear domain structure similar to that of LysR transcriptional activators which largely differ in primary structure.
A complex control system for transcriptional activation from the sid promoter of bacteriophage P4.	The sid gene promoter (Psid), which controls expression of the late genes from satellite phage P4, is activated by a unique class of small DNA-binding proteins. The activators from both satellite and helper phages stimulate transcription from Psid. These activators bind to sites centered at position -55 in all the helper and satellite phage late promoters. P4 Psid is unique in that it has an additional activator binding site centered at position -18 (site II). We have constructed a mutant of site II that no longer binds activators. Transcription under the control of satellite phage activators is increased by the site II mutation. In contrast, helper phage activators do not show this increase in transcription from Psid mutated at site II. Competition gel shift analysis reveals that the P4 satellite phage activator, Delta, binds eightfold better to site II than to site I. The products of the sid transcription unit are needed only when a helper phage is present; thus, the satellite phage activators repress transcription until the helper is present to supply a nonrepressing activator.
Bradyrhizobium japonicum FixK2, a crucial distributor in the FixLJ-dependent regulatory cascade for control of genes inducible by low oxygen levels.	Bradyrhizobium japonicum possesses a second fixK-like gene, fixK2, in addition to the previously identified fixK1 gene. The expression of both genes depends in a hierarchical fashion on the low-oxygen-responsive two-component regulatory system FixLJ, whereby FixJ first activates fixK2, whose product then activates fixK1. While the target genes for control by FixK1 are unknown, there is evidence for activation of the fixNOQP, fixGHIS, and rpoN1 genes and some heme biosynthesis and nitrate respiration genes by FixK2. FixK2 also regulates its own structural gene, directly or indirectly, in a negative way.
Genetic analysis of adenovirus E1A: induction of genetic instability and altered cell morphologic and growth characteristics are segregatable functions.	Single multifunctional oncoproteins contribute to genomic instability development, but relationships between one or more oncoprotein-associated activities and genetic changes accompanying tumor cell progression are uncertain. Using NIH 3T3 derivative EN/NIH 2-20 containing transcriptionally silent neomycin phosphotransferase gene (neo) integrants with undetectable spontaneous reactivations, we studied wild-type (WT) and mutant adenovirus E1A-induced neo reactivation by neo-allelic rearrangement. WT E1A expression, yielding differential splice transcripts 12S and 13S and resulting in altered cell morphologic and growth characteristics, produced neo reactivations in 9 of 21 subclones (median rate per cell, 35 x 10(-6); range, 0.33 x 10(-6) to 936 x 10(-6)). Only 3 of 17 cell lines expressing CTdl976, a '12S' functional equivalent inducing altered cell morphologic and growth characteristics while lacking the 13S trans activation domain, yielded neo reactivations (range, 0.33 x 10(-6) to 0.67 x 10(-6)). One of 21 subclones expressing NTdl646, an E1A mutant retaining the trans domain but lacking p300 binding activity and the ability to alter cell morphologic and growth characteristics, produced neo reactivations (8.7 x 10(-6)). Other E1A mutants, all lacking the ability to alter cell morphologic and growth characteristics while binding pRb but variously lacking the trans domain and binding for p107 and/or p300, displayed undetectable neo-reactivations. 98 EN/NIH 2-20 derivatives coexpressing complementary mutant E1As exhibited altered morphologic and growth features, but only 10 of these produced neo reactivations, and maximum rates (14 x 10(-6)) were substantially lower than those in comparably derived, morphologically altered E1AWT-expressing counterparts (497 x 10(-6)). These findings suggest that maximum rates of gene reactivations by genomic rearrangement require the collective activities of functional domains assembled in single multifunctional proteins (or complexes) while altered cell morphologic and growth characteristics may arise through comparable sets of functional domains distributed across more than one protein (or complex).
Identification and characterization of potential cis-regulatory elements governing transcriptional activation of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine, which is the first and rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis. We have previously shown that the cyclic AMP response element (CRE), an essential promoter element for both basal and cyclic AMP-inducible TH transcription, activates the promoter activity in a distance-dependent manner. To identify further cis-regulatory elements controlling TH gene expression, we analyzed the potential regulatory sequences by several approaches. First, using transient transfection assays, we examined the cell-specific promoter activities of TH-reporter gene constructs and a dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH)-reporter construct containing the 5' upstream sequences of the rat TH and human DBH genes, respectively, that had been shown to direct tissue-specific reporter expression in transgenic mice experiments. Second, DNase I footprinting analysis of the 503-bp proximal area of the rat TH gene identified seven footprinted regions that encompass the putative cis-regulatory motifs, including the CRE (domain 1), Sp1 (domain III), Octamer (domain IV), AP1 (domain V), AP2 (domain VI), and two potentially novel sequence motifs (domains II and VII). Footprinting patterns at these sites by nuclear proteins from TH-positive and -negative cell lines appeared to be similar. Third, site-directed mutagenesis demonstrates that domain III, but not domain II, critically contributes to the TH promoter activity. Furthermore, electrophoretic mobility shift, competition, and supershift assays demonstrate that domain III is an authentic Sp1 site and that the transcription factor Sp1 interacts with it. This and previous results suggest that the CRE and Sp1 site may synergistically activate TH transcription in a promoter context-dependent manner.
Transcription factor CP2 is essential for lens-specific expression of the chicken alphaA-crystallin gene.	Lens-specific transcriptional activation of the chicken alphaA-crystallin gene is controlled by the distal and proximal enhancers, alphaCE1 and alphaCE2, respectively. Analysis using specific monoclonal antibodies against purified alphaCE1-binding factor alphaCEF1 revealed that alphaCEF1 is composed of two distinct subunits.
A novel alternative spliced variant of the transcription factor AP2alpha is expressed in the murine ocular lens.	The AP2alpha gene encodes a transcription factor containing a basic, helix-span-helix DNA-binding/dimerization domain, which is developmentally regulated and retinoic acid inducible. Recent reports about AP2alpha null mice indicate that AP2alpha plays an important role in embryogenesis, especially in craniofacial development and midline fusion. Ocular development is also affected in these null mice. As AP2alpha may be involved in transcriptional regulation in the lens, it was important to examine the expression of the AP2alpha gene in the lens. Four AP2alpha mRNA variants have been previously isolated from whole mouse embryos. Variants 1, 3, and 4 are transcriptional activators that are transcribed from different promoters and variant 2 is a repressor lacking the activation domain encoded by exon 2. Using in situ-PCR, we found that AP2alpha is expressed in the lens epithelia but not in the lens fibers. RT-PCR analysis of lens mRNA with amplimers specific for each variant revealed that AP2alpha variants 1, 2, and 3 are expressed in newborn mouse lenses. However, variant 4 is not expressed in the lens. In this report we characterized a novel isoform, which we named variant 5, expressed in the lens and kidney. Variant 5, which is generated by alternative splicing, may function as a repressor due to the partial deletion of the proline-rich transactivation domain encoded by exon 2. This is the first molecular characterization of AP2alpha gene expression in the lens. Our results indicate that two activator and two repressor AP2alpha isoforms may play a role in regulating gene expression in the lens.
Induction of the heat-shock response by antiviral prostaglandins in human cells infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1.	Cyclopentenone prostaglandins inhibit the replication of several DNA and RNA viruses, including retroviruses. The antiviral activity has been associated with the induction of a 70-kDa heat-shock protein (HSP70), via activation of the heat-shock transcription factor (HSF) in infected cells. In the present study we investigated the effect of prostaglandin A1 (PGA1) on the regulation of HSP70 gene expression as well as on viral RNA and protein synthesis in CEM-SS cells during acute infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). We report that HIV-1 infection does not alter HSF activation by PGA1, whereas it causes an increase in intracellular HSP70 mRNA levels, as a result of enhanced HSP70 mRNA stability. We also show that, as reported in studies of different virus/host cell models, PGA1 inhibits HIV-1 replication by acting at multiple levels during HIV-1 infection. In addition to the previously reported block of HIV-1 mRNA transcription, PGA1 was also found to inhibit viral protein synthesis. These results, together with the fact that prostaglandins are used clinically in the treatment of several diseases, open new perspectives in the search for novel antiretroviral drugs.
Regulation of gene expression by HTLV-I Tax protein.	The human T-cell leukemia virus type I or HTLV-I is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia. A protein encoded by HTLV-I, Tax, activates viral gene expression and is essential for transforming T-lymphocytes. Tax activates HTLV-I gene expression via interactions with the ATF/CREB proteins and the coactivators CBP/p300 which assemble as a multiprotein complex on regulatory elements known as 21-bp repeats in the HTLV-I LTR. Tax can also activate expression from cellular genes including the interleukin-2 (IL-2) and the IL-2 receptor genes via increases in nuclear levels of NF-kappaB. Tax modulation of gene expression via the ATF/CREB and NF-kappaB pathways is linked to its transforming properties. This review discusses the mechanisms by which Tax regulates viral and cellular gene expression.
Heat shock element architecture is an important determinant in the temperature and transactivation domain requirements for heat shock transcription factor.	The baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae possesses a single gene encoding heat shock transcription factor (HSF), which is required for the activation of genes that participate in stress protection as well as normal growth and viability. Yeast HSF (yHSF) contains two distinct transcriptional activation regions located at the amino and carboxyl termini. Activation of the yeast metallothionein gene, CUP1, depends on a nonconsensus heat shock element (HSE), occurs at higher temperatures than other heat shock-responsive genes, and is highly dependent on the carboxyl-terminal transactivation domain (CTA) of yHSF. The results described here show that the noncanonical (or gapped) spacing of GAA units in the CUP1 HSE (HSE1) functions to limit the magnitude of CUP1 transcriptional activation in response to heat and oxidative stress. The spacing in HSE1 modulates the dependence for transcriptional activation by both stresses on the yHSF CTA. Furthermore, a previously uncharacterized HSE in the CUP1 promoter, HSE2, modulates the magnitude of the transcriptional activation of CUP1, via HSE1, in response to stress. In vitro DNase I footprinting experiments suggest that the occupation of HSE2 by yHSF strongly influences the manner in which yHSF occupies HSE1. Limited proteolysis assays show that HSF adopts a distinct protease-sensitive conformation when bound to the CUP1 HSE1, providing evidence that the HSE influences DNA-bound HSF conformation. Together, these results suggest that CUP1 regulation is distinct from that of other classic heat shock genes through the interaction of yHSF with two nonconsensus HSEs. Consistent with this view, we have identified other gene targets of yHSF containing HSEs with sequence and spacing features similar to those of CUP1 HSE1 and show a correlation between the spacing of the GAA units and the relative dependence on the yHSF CTA.
Direct interaction of SRY-related protein SOX9 and steroidogenic factor 1 regulates transcription of the human anti-Mllerian hormone gene.	For proper male sexual differentiation, anti-Mllerian hormone (AMH) must be tightly regulated during embryonic development to promote regression of the Mllerian duct. However, the molecular mechanisms specifying the onset of AMH in male mammals are not yet clearly defined. A DNA-binding element for the steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1), a member of the orphan nuclear receptor family, located in the AMH proximal promoter has recently been characterized and demonstrated as being essential for AMH gene activation. However, the requirement for a specific promoter environment for SF-1 activation as well as the presence of conserved cis DNA-binding elements in the AMH promoter suggest that SF-1 is a member of a combinatorial protein-protein and protein-DNA complex. In this study, we demonstrate that the canonical SOX-binding site within the human AMH proximal promoter can bind the transcription factor SOX9, a Sertoli cell factor closely associated with Sertoli cell differentiation and AMH expression. Transfection studies with COS-7 cells revealed that SOX9 can cooperate with SF-1 in this activation process. In vitro and in vivo protein-binding studies indicate that SOX9 and SF-1 interact directly via the SOX9 DNA-binding domain and the SF-1 C-terminal region, respectively. We propose that the two transcription factors SOX9 and SF-1 could both be involved in the expression of the AMH gene, in part as a result of their respective binding to the AMH promoter and in part because of their ability to interact with each other. Our work thus identifies SOX9 as an interaction partner of SF-1 that could be involved in the Sertoli cell-specific expression of AMH during embryogenesis.
A Ras-dependent pathway regulates RNA polymerase II phosphorylation in cardiac myocytes: implications for cardiac hypertrophy.	Despite extensive evidence implicating Ras in cardiac muscle hypertrophy, the mechanisms involved are unclear. We previously reported that Ras, through an effector-like function of Ras GTPase-activating protein (GAP) in neonatal cardiac myocytes (M. Abdellatif et al., J. Biol. Chem. 269:15423-15426, 1994; M. Abdellatif and M. D. Schneider, J. Biol. Chem. 272:527-533, 1997), can up-regulate expression from a comprehensive set of promoters, including both cardiac cell-specific and constitutive ones. To investigate the mechanism(s) underlying these earlier findings, we have used recombinant adenoviruses harboring a dominant negative Ras (17N Ras) allele or the N-terminal domain of GAP (nGAP), responsible for the Ras-like effector function. Inhibition of endogenous Ras reduced basal levels of [3H]uridine and [3H]phenylalanine incorporation into total RNA, mRNA, and protein, with parallel changes in apparent cell size. In addition, 17N Ras markedly inhibited phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (pol II), known to regulate transcript elongation, accompanied by down-regulation of its principal kinase, cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (Cdk7). In contrast, nGAP elicited the opposite effects on each of these parameters. Furthermore, cotransfection of constitutively active Ras (12R Ras) with wild-type pol II, rather than a truncated mutant lacking the CTD, demonstrated that Ras activation of transcription was dependent on the pol II CTD. Consistent with a potential role for this pathway in the development of cardiac myocyte hypertrophy, alpha1-adrenergic stimulation similarly enhanced pol II phosphorylation and Cdk7 expression, where both effects were inhibited by dominant negative Ras, while pressure overload hypertrophy led to an increase in both hyperphosphorylated and hypophosphorylated pol II in addition to Cdk7.
Activation of human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) thymidine kinase (TK) TATAA-less promoter by HHV-8 ORF50 gene product is SP1 dependent.	Human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) is a newly discovered virus closely associated with Kaposi's sarcoma and primary effusion lymphomas. When they occur in patients with AIDS, these B-cell lymphomas frequently harbor another human herpesvirus, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). To determine the molecular mechanisms of the regulation of early gene expression by the immediate-early gene products of HHV-8 and to assess possible molecular interactions between HHV-8 and EBV, we studied the regulation of the HHV-8 thymidine kinase (TK) promoter in cell lines harboring either or both viruses. The constitutive chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) activity of the TK promoter was low in all six cell lines tested. A putative immediate-early gene product of HHV-8 ORF50, which is a homolog of EBV BRLF1, was cloned into an expression vector and tested for its transactivating capacity. In the presence of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA), the CAT activity of the TK promoter was increased 7- to 720-fold by cotransfection with the ORF50 clone in EBV-producing cell lines (Ramos/AW, P3HR-1, and BC-1) but not in EBV-negative cell lines (BCBL-1 and Ramos), nor in the latently EBV-infected cell line Raji. The TK promoter contains three consensus SP1- and two AP1-binding sites. In electrophoretic mobility shift assays, the cellular factor SP1, but not AP1, was found to bind specifically to the TK promoter. To determine whether the increased CAT activity resulted from the interaction of SP1 with the ORF50 gene product, we introduced mutations into two SP1-binding sites. Both mutated SP1 sites had reduced SP1-binding activity and greatly decreased TK promoter responsiveness to ORF50 transactivation, suggesting that upregulation of TK promoter by ORF50 is SP1 dependent.
Regulation of mouse colony-stimulating factor-1 gene promoter activity by AP1 and cellular nucleic acid-binding protein.	Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF; CSF-1) is a member of a complex network of cytokines that regulate monocytic cell development and activity. It is produced in nearly all organs by cell types commonly found in connective tissue, including fibroblasts and monocytes. Whether different cell types share common or have divergent mechanisms for regulating CSF-1 gene expression is not known. To address this question, the identity of cis-acting elements and cognate trans-acting factors was characterized in a region of the CSF-1 promoter known to be more active in monocytes than in fibroblasts. The results of DNase I protection assays performed with fibroblast- or monocyte-derived nuclear extracts revealed a difference in the pattern of DNA-binding proteins. One protected region, common to both fibroblasts and monocytes, spans a putative phorbol ester-responsive element (TRE), and binding to the TRE by AP1 was verified with antibodies directed against c-fos and c-jun family members. Mutational analysis revealed that the TRE is required for CSF-1 gene expression in proliferating fibroblasts and monocytes. Binding of a second putative trans-acting factor, preferentially expressed in fibroblasts, to the region immediately upstream of the TRE was also detected. Screening a mouse expression library with oligonucleotides spanning the putative cis-acting element identified cellular nucleic acid-binding protein (CNBP) as the cognate binding activity, and antiserum to CNBP disrupted the electromobility shift assay complex. Mutational analysis revealed that loss of CNBP binding leads to a decrease in CSF-1 promoter activity in fibroblasts but has no effect on CSF-1 promoter activity in monocytes. Our results demonstrate that control of CSF-1 gene expression in monocytes and fibroblasts is mediated by common and cell type-specific trans-acting factors.
Regulation of mouse Ah receptor (Ahr) gene basal expression by members of the Sp family of transcription factors.	The aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that regulates the expression of several drug-metabolizing enzymes and has been implicated in immunosuppression, teratogenesis, cell-specific hyperplasia, and certain types of malignancies and toxicities. The mouse Ahr gene 5' proximal promoter region, which contains four potential Sp1 motifs, is required for efficient basal expression. Using a fragment spanning the region from nt -174 to +70 of the Ahr promoter, we found that four regions corresponding to four Sp1 sites were protected from DNase I digestion using nuclear extracts from MLE-12 (lung), F9 (embryonal carcinoma), Hepa-1 (hepatoma), and 41-5a (epidermal) cells. The Hepa-1 and F9 cell lines were shown by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot to contain mRNA and protein for Sp1 and Sp3, but not Sp2 and Sp4. In electrophoretic mobility shift assays using oligonucleotide probes corresponding to the four Ahr Sp1 sites, nuclear extracts from Hepa-1 and F9 cells formed complexes that were determined immunologically to contain both Sp1 and Sp3 protein. The two Ahr proximal Sp1 sites (A and B) were shown to bind both Sp1 and Sp3 proteins, whereas the more distal sites (C and D) bound only Sp1. Competition gel shift experiments showed that sites A and B had 10-fold higher affinity for Sp factors than did sites C and D. To determine the transactivation potential of each of the four Ahr Sp1 sites, we fused the Ahr promoter to a luciferase (LUC) reporter gene and transfected the construct into the Drosophila cell line Schneider-2, which contains no Sp1 or Sp1-like factors. Cotransfection of this construct with expression plasmids for each of the Sp factors revealed that Sp3 was approximately 1.6-fold more efficient than Sp1 in Ahr transactivation. Mutation of the four Sp1 sites individually and in combination demonstrated that each site contributes to the overall level of expression of the reporter gene and that interactions between these sites play a minor role in regulation of the Ahr-LUC construct. These results suggest that basal Ahr expression may be regulated by the expression and distribution of Sp1-like factors.
Azoospermia associated with a mutation in the ligand-binding domain of an androgen receptor displaying normal ligand binding, but defective trans-activation.	Although male infertility affects a significant proportion of couples trying to conceive, the cause of defective spermatogenesis is not known in a large number of cases. Ligand binding studies indicate that a number of these subjects may have defects of the androgen receptor (AR). Genetic screening in subjects with defective spermatogenesis and in 110 fertile controls identified an azoospermic (no sperm in any ejaculates) patient with an amino acid substitution (Gln-->Glu) in residue 798 of the AR gene. This germline mutation was pathogenic because it was not observed in fertile controls, was associated with features of minimal androgen insensitivity in our patient, has been related to more severe grades of androgen insensitivity, and caused a subtle, but significant, decrease in receptor trans-activation function in vitro that is consistent with the phenotype. Despite being located in the middle of the ligand-binding domain of the receptor, the Q798E mutation did not cause any ligand binding defect, indicating that this highly conserved residue has a trans-activation function but does not directly form part of the ligand binding pocket of the receptor. The trans-activation defect of the mutant receptor can be rectified in vitro with the androgenic drug, fluoxymesterone, but not with mesterolone or nortestosterone. Further studies are required to determine the therapeutic relevance of this finding.
Activation of the osteopontin promoter by the orphan nuclear receptor estrogen receptor related alpha.	Estrogen receptor related alpha (ERRalpha) is an orphan nuclear receptor that is closely related to the estrogen receptor. It is expressed in a variety of adult and embryonic tissues (in particular, at the onset of ossification), as well as in several osteoblastic cell lines. ERRalpha acts as a site-specific, cell-specific transcriptional activator. Here, we show that ERRalpha transactivates the promoter of the mouse osteopontin (OPN) gene, the product of which is a marker of the late stages of osteoblastic differentiation. This effect is cell specific and is exerted through derivatives of the ERRalpha response element. Overexpression of ERRalpha in three different osteoblast-like cell lines results in an elevation of the amount of OPN-corresponding mRNA. Therefore, OPN is a target gene for ERRalpha, pointing to the role of the latter in osteoblast differentiation.
Redox regulation of wound healing? NF-kappaB activation in cultured human keratinocytes upon wounding and the effect of low energy HeNe irradiation.	The complex process of wound healing as well as the signaling systems orchestrating this intricate process remain incompletely defined. Using human keratinocytes in primary culture, we sought to characterize their NF-kappaB responses to wounding alone or in combination with other treatments. We initially characterized these cultured human keratinocytes responses to known NF-kappaB activators (PMA, TNF-alpha and IL-1) using two different assays, immunohistochemistry and electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA). After eliciting the expected NF-kappaB responses, we applied these same assays to assess responses to either wounding or HeNe irradiation alone. The results obtained indicated that only a modest/sporadic activation of NF-kappaB was elicited by these which was only detectable using immunohistochemistry. When the combination of wounding and HeNe irradiation on NF-kappaB status was assessed, a marked, localized activation of NF-kappaB in keratinocytes along the wound edge was found. Treatment induced NF-kappaB activation (e.g., wounding, HeNe irradiation and combined wounding and HeNe irradiation) was abrogated by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) which inhibits NF-kappaB activation through an as yet incompletely understood (antioxidant?) mechanism. These data therefore suggest that NF-kappaB and oxidation mediated changes in its activation state likely play important roles in normal cutaneous wound healing.
Both Ets-1 and GATA-1 are essential for positive regulation of platelet factor 4 gene expression.	In the rat platelet factor 4 (PF4) promoter, Ets motifs and GATA motifs are located at positions -880, -75 and -135, -30, respectively, and their motifs are found in the promoter region of most megakaryocyte protein genes. In order to investigate how the Ets and GATA motifs affect PF4 promoter activity, we constructed Ets and/or GATA motif mutant genes. A single disruption of either -75Ets, -135GATA, or -30GATA significantly reduced PF4 promoter activity, and double disruptions involving these motifs completely abolished it. Furthermore, gel-retardation assays revealed that Ets-1 and GATA-1 proteins from HEL and MEG-01 cells bound to the Ets motifs and GATA motifs, respectively. Co-transfection experiments showed that the overexpression of Ets-1 and/or GATA-1 enhanced the expression of the PF4 promoter reporter gene. These effects of Ets-1 and GATA-1 on PF4 promoter activity are additive. When HEL cells were treated with dimethylsulfoxide in order to induce differentiation into megakaryocytes, the mRNA level of ets-1 increased 10-fold, which might be directly correlated with the significant increase in PF4 mRNA level induced by dimethylsulfoxide. All these results strongly suggest that both Ets-1 and GATA-1 play key roles in the positive regulation of PF4 gene expression.
