Functional characterization of transient receptor potential channels in mouse urothelial cells.	The bladder urothelium is currently believed to be a sensory structure, contributing to mechano- and chemosensation in the bladder. Transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channels act as polymodal sensors and may underlie some of the receptive properties of urothelial cells. However, the exact TRP channel expression profile of urothelial cells is unclear. In this study, we have performed a systematic analysis of the molecular and functional expression of various TRP channels in mouse urothelium. Urothelial cells from control and trpv4-/- mice were isolated, cultured (12-48 h), and used for quantitative real-time PCR, immunocytochemistry, calcium imaging, and whole cell patch-clamp experiments. At the mRNA level, TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 were the most abundantly expressed TRP genes. Immunohistochemistry showed a clear expression of TRPV4 in the plasma membrane, whereas TRPV2 was more prominent in the cytoplasm. TRPM7 was detected in the plasma membrane as well as cytoplasmic vesicles. Calcium imaging and patch-clamp experiments using TRP channel agonists and antagonists provided evidence for the functional expression of TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 but not of TRPA1, TRPV1, and TRPM8. In conclusion, we have demonstrated functional expression of TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 in mouse urothelial cells. These channels may contribute to the (mechano)sensory function of the urothelial layer and represent potential targets for the treatment of bladder dysfunction.
TRPA1 is required for histamine-independent, Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor-mediated itch.	Itch, the unpleasant sensation that evokes a desire to scratch, accompanies numerous skin and nervous system disorders. In many cases, pathological itch is insensitive to antihistamine treatment. Recent studies have identified members of the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor (Mrgpr) family that are activated by mast cell mediators and promote histamine-independent itch. MrgprA3 and MrgprC11 act as receptors for the pruritogens chloroquine and BAM8-22, respectively. However, the signaling pathways and transduction channels activated downstream of these pruritogens are largely unknown. We found that TRPA1 is the downstream target of both MrgprA3 and MrgprC11 in cultured sensory neurons and heterologous cells. TRPA1 is required for Mrgpr-mediated signaling, as sensory neurons from TRPA1-deficient mice exhibited markedly diminished responses to chloroquine and BAM8-22. Similarly, TRPA1-deficient mice displayed little to no scratching in response to these pruritogens. Our findings indicate that TRPA1 is an essential component of the signaling pathways that promote histamine-independent itch.
TRPs: truly remarkable proteins.	The family of transient receptor potential cation channels has received in the last 10 years a tremendous interest because members of this family are involved in a plethora of cell functions and have been identified as causal for many hereditary and acquired diseases. We shortly introduce these channels, summarize nomenclature and chromosomal location of the 28 mammalian Trp genes, and list the available Trp-deficient mouse lines. 
