SUPREX (Stability of Unpurified Proteins from Rates of H/D Exchange) analysis of the thermodynamics of synergistic anion binding by ferric-binding protein (FbpA), a bacterial transferrin.	SUPREX (stability of unpurified proteins from rates of H/D exchange) is a H/D exchange- and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI)-based technique for characterizing the equilibrium unfolding/refolding properties of proteins and protein-ligand complexes. Here, we describe the application of SUPREX to the thermodynamic analysis of synergistic anion binding to iron-loaded ferric-binding protein (Fe(3+)FbpA-X, X = synergistic anion). The in vivo function of FbpA is to transport unchelated Fe(3+) across the periplasmic space of certain Gram-negative bacteria, a process that requires simultaneous binding of a synergistic anion. Our results indicate that Fe(3+)FbpA-X is not a so-called "ideal" protein system for SUPREX analyses because it does not exhibit two-state folding properties and it does not exhibit EX2 H/D exchange behavior. However, despite these nonideal properties of the Fe(3+)FbpA-X protein-folding/unfolding reaction, we demonstrate that the SUPREX technique is still amenable to the quantitative thermodynamic analysis of synergistic anion binding to Fe(3+)FbpA. As part of this work, the SUPREX technique was used to evaluate the DeltaDeltaG(f) values of four synergistic anion-containing complexes of Fe(3+)FbpA (i.e., Fe(3+)FbpA-PO(4), Fe(3+)FbpA-citrate, Fe(3+)FbpA-AsO(4), and Fe(3+)FbpA-SO(4)). The DeltaDeltaG(f) value obtained for Fe(3+)FbpA-citrate relative to Fe(3+)FbpA-PO(4) (1.45 +/- 0.44 kcal/mol), is in good agreement with that reported previously (1.98 kcal/mol). The value obtained for Fe(3+)FbpA-AsO(4) (0.58 +/- 0.45 kcal/mol) was also consistent with that reported previously (0.68 kcal/mol), but the measurement error is very close to the magnitude of the value. This work (i) demonstrates the utility of the SUPREX method for studying anion binding by FbpA, (ii) provides the first evaluation of a DeltaDeltaG(f) value for Fe(3+)FbpA-SO(4), -1.43 +/- 0.17 kcal/mol, and (iii) helps substantiate our hypothesis that the synergistic anion plays a role in controlling the lability of iron bound to FbpA in the transport process.
Homology modelling of transferrin-binding protein A from Neisseria meningitidis.	Neisseria meningitidis, a causative agent of bacterial meningitis, obtains transferrin-bound iron by expressing two outer membrane located transferrin-binding proteins, TbpA and TbpB. TbpA is thought to be an integral outer membrane pore that facilitates iron uptake. Evidence suggests that TbpA is a useful antigen for inclusion in a vaccine effective against meningococcal disease, hence the identification of regions involved in ligand binding is of paramount importance to design strategies to block uptake of iron. The protein shares sequence and functional similarities to the Escherichia coli siderophore receptors FepA and FhuA, whose structures have been determined. These receptors are composed of two domains, a 22-stranded beta-barrel and an N-terminal plug region that sits within the barrel and occludes the transmembrane pore. A three-dimensional TbpA model was constructed using FepA and FhuA structural templates, hydrophobicity analysis and homology modelling. TbpA was found to possess a similar architecture to the siderophore receptors. In addition to providing insights into the highly immunogenic nature of TbpA and allowing the prediction of potentially important ligand-binding epitopes, the model also reveals a narrow channel through its entire length. The relevance of this channel and the spatial arrangement of external loops, to the mechanism of iron translocation employed by TbpA is discussed.
Hijacking transferrin bound iron: protein-receptor interactions involved in iron transport in N. gonorrhoeae.	Neisseria gonorrhoeae has the capacity to acquire iron from its human host by removing this essential nutrient from serum transferrin. The transferrin binding proteins, TbpA and TbpB constitute the outer membrane receptor complex responsible for binding transferrin, extracting the tightly bound iron from the host-derived molecule, and transporting iron into the periplasmic space of this Gram-negative bacterium. Once iron is transported across the outer membrane, ferric binding protein A (FbpA) moves the iron across the periplasmic space and initiates the process of transport into the bacterial cytosol. The results of the studies reported here define the multiple steps in the iron transport process in which TbpA and TbpB participate. Using the SUPREX technique for assessing the thermodynamic stability of protein-ligand complexes, we report herein the first direct measurement of periplasmic FbpA binding to the outer membrane protein TbpA. We also show that TbpA discriminates between apo- and holo-FbpA; i.e. the TbpA interaction with apo-FbpA is higher affinity than the TbpA interaction with holo-FbpA. Further, we demonstrate that both TbpA and TbpB individually can deferrate transferrin and ferrate FbpA without energy supplied from TonB resulting in sequestration by apo-FbpA.
