Brazilian Army nurses and transportation of the wounded: a challenge faced during World War II]	This historic-sociologic study aims to analyse the challenges faced by the Brazilian Expeditionary Force's Air Transportation Nurses of the Army with the Theatre of Operations on the course of World War II. The primary source was comprised of a photograph from this time period and oral testimonies of those who participated in the conflict. Ideas by sociologist Pierre Bourdieu support the discussion. Results suggest that Brazilian nurses were challenged to transport the wounded without medical advice. We conclude that the challenge to fulfill the task imposed, which led to independent decision-making, gave confidence and autonomy to the ones already responsible for the transportation of the wounded.
The development of the nation's oldest operating civilian hospital-sponsored aeromedical helicopter service.	The Vietnam War heightened civilian awareness as to the use of helicopters for medical evacuations. This led to the initiation of federally funded projects aimed at determining whether helicopters were practical for civilian aeromedical transports. In 1972, a Department of Transportation (DOT) summary concluded that helicopters for civilian medical transports were largely economically prohibitive and provided limited medical benefits in limited locales. Despite this report, in 1972 St. Anthony Hospital initiated a hospital-based emergency medical helicopter service (HEMS). This paper provides a historical review of the individuals and events responsible for the early success of the nation's longest operating civilian hospital-sponsored helicopter service. The author concludes that the early success of this program was due in part to the selection of an affordable, high altitude, helicopter; rapid response times to the scene of injury; the development of excellent EMS communications systems; the use of specialty trained flight crewmembers; and integration of HEMS into the existing EMS system.
Operation Homecoming: 25 years later.	Following an end to U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War in early 1973, approximately 600 Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine personnel, the great majority aviators, were released from captivity in North and South Vietnam and Laos. Their initial medical evaluation was performed at USAF Hospital, Clark Air Base, Republic of the Philippines, between February and April 1973. The author describes the events of those memorable days.
