Involvement of cell cycle elements, cyclin-dependent kinases, pRb, and E2F x DP, in B-amyloid-induced neuronal death.	Previous evidence by others has indicated that a variety of cell cycle-related molecules are up-regulated in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The significance of this increase, however, is unclear. Accordingly, we examined the obligate nature of cyclin-dependent kinases and select downstream targets of these kinases in death of neurons evoked by B-amyloid (AB) protein. We present pharmacological and molecular biological evidence that cyclin-dependent kinases, in particular Cdk4/6, are required for such neuronal death. In addition, we demonstrate that the substrate of Cdk4/6, pRb/p107, is phosphorylated during AB treatment and that one target of pRb/p107, the E2F x DP complex, is required for AB-evoked neuronal death. These results provide evidence that cell cycle elements play a required role in death of neurons evoked by AB and suggest that these elements play an integral role in Alzheimer's disease-related neuronal death.
Bovine papillomavirus E2 protein activates a complex growth-inhibitory program in p53-negative HT-3 cervical carcinoma cells that includes repression of cyclin A and cdc25A phosphatase genes and accumulation of hypophosphorylated retinoblastoma protein.	The bovine papillomavirus E2 protein can inhibit the proliferation of HT-3 cells, a p53-negative cervical carcinoma cell line containing integrated human papillomavirus type 30 DNA. Here, we analyzed HT-3 cells to explore the mechanism of p53-independent E2-mediated growth inhibition. Expression of the E2 protein repressed expression of the endogenous human papillomavirus type 30 E6/E7 genes. This was accompanied by hypophosphorylation and increased accumulation of p105Rb and repression of E2F1 expression. The E2 protein also caused reduced cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 2 activity, but this did not appear to be due to increased expression of cdk inhibitors. Rather, expression of cyclin A, which regulates cdk2 activity, and the cdc25A and cdc25B phosphatases, which are thought to activate cdk2, was significantly reduced at both the RNA and protein levels in response to E2 expression. The E2 protein reduced expression of cdc25A and cdc25B in both HT-3 and HeLa cells, but not in cells that were not growth-inhibited by the E2 protein. E2 point mutants unable to inhibit cell growth did not repress cdc25A and cdc25B expression, nor did the cell cycle inhibitors hydroxyurea and mimosine. Based on these results and the known properties of cell cycle components, we propose a model to account for E2-induced growth inhibition of cervical carcinoma cell lines.
Characterization of CELO virus proteins that modulate the pRb/E2F pathway.	The avian adenovirus CELO can, like the human adenoviruses, transform several mammalian cell types, yet it lacks sequence homology with the transforming, early regions of human adenoviruses. In an attempt to identify how CELO virus activates the E2F-dependent gene expression important for S phase in the host cell, we have identified two CELO virus open reading frames that cooperate in activating an E2F-inducible reporter system. The encoded proteins, GAM-1 and Orf22, were both found to interact with the retinoblastoma protein (pRb), with Orf22 binding to the pocket domain of pRb, similar to other DNA tumor virus proteins, and GAM-1 interacting with pRb regions outside the pocket domain. The motif in Orf22 responsible for the pRb interaction is essential for Orf22-mediated E2F activation, yet it is remarkably unlike the E1A LxCxD and may represent a novel form of pRb-binding peptide.
The Epstein-Barr virus protein BRLF1 activates S phase entry through E2F1 induction.	The Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) immediate-early protein BRLF1 is one of two transactivators which mediate the switch from latent to lytic replication in EBV-infected cells. DNA viruses often modulate the function of critical cell cycle proteins to maximize the efficiency of virus replication. Here we have examined the effect of BRLF1 on cell cycle progression. A replication-deficient adenovirus expressing BRLF1 (AdBRLF1) was used to infect normal human fibroblasts and various epithelial cell lines. BRLF1 expression induced S phase entry in contact-inhibited fibroblasts and in the human osteosarcoma cell line U-2 OS. AdBRLF1 infection produced a dramatic increase in the level of E2F1 but not E2F4. In contrast, the levels of Rb, p107, and p130 were decreased in AdBRLF1-infected cells. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays confirmed an increased level of free E2F1 in the AdBRLF1-infected human fibroblasts. Consistent with the previously described effect of E2F1, AdBRLF1-infected fibroblasts had increased levels of p53 and p21 and died by apoptosis. BRLF1-induced activation of E2F1 may be required for efficient EBV lytic replication, since at least one critical viral replication gene (the viral DNA polymerase) is activated by E2F (C. Liu, N. D. Sista, and J. S. Pagano, J. Virol. 70:2545-2555, 1996).
Upregulation of E2F transcription factors in chemically induced mouse skin tumors.	E2F family of transcription factors plays an important role in cell cycle regulation, oncogenesis and differentiation. E2Fs are a family of heterodimeric transcription factors composed of E2F-like and DP-like subunits. They regulate expression of specific genes controlling cellular proliferation by binding to specific sequences within the promoter regions of these target genes and affecting their transcription in a cell cycle dependent manner. Recent studies have suggested an essential role of Rb/E2F pathway in the passage of cells through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. To better understand the role of these transcription factors in epithelial tumorigenesis, we compared the expression of various proteins involved in the Rb/E2F pathway in epidermis and 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) promoted papillomas on SENCAR mouse skin. Western blot analysis data showed 3.0- to 7.6-fold upregulation of E2F-1, E2F-2, E2F-3, E2F-4 and E2F-5 in tumors compared to normal epidermis. In tumors, the protein expression of DP-1 did not show significant change whereas that of DP-2 showed a 2.2-fold increase. Compared to normal epidermis, a significant upregulation of pRb (6.3-fold) and p107 (13-fold) was also observed in tumors. The protein expression of p130 was not detectable either in normal epidermis or in tumors. These data suggest that the overexpression of E2F proteins may be involved in the G1-S phase dysregulation that occurs during mouse skin tumorigenesis.
Histone deacetylase 1 can repress transcription by binding to Sp1.	The members of the Sp1 transcription factor family can act as both negative and positive regulators of gene expression. Here we show that Sp1 can be a target for histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1)-mediated transcriptional repression. The histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A activates the chromosomally integrated murine thymidine kinase promoter in an Sp1-dependent manner. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments with Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts and 293 cells demonstrate that Sp1 and HDAC1 can be part of the same complex. The interaction between Sp1 and HDAC1 is direct and requires the carboxy-terminal domain of Sp1. Previously we have shown that the C terminus of Sp1 is necessary for the interaction with the transcription factor E2F1 (J. Karlseder, H. Rotheneder, and E. Wintersberger, Mol. Cell. Biol. 16:1659-1667, 1996). Coexpression of E2F1 interferes with HDAC1 binding to Sp1 and abolishes Sp1-mediated transcriptional repression. Our results indicate that one component of Sp1-dependent gene regulation involves competition between the transcriptional repressor HDAC1 and the transactivating factor E2F1.
A proapoptotic peptide for the treatment of solid tumors.	We have designed a novel peptide, DP1, which is able to mediate significant induction of apoptosis in solid tumors by local injection. This peptide, comprised of a protein transduction domain (PTD), PTD-5, fused to an antimicrobial peptide, (KLAKLAK)2, was able to trigger rapid apoptosis in a variety of cell lines in vitro, including MCA205 murine fibrosarcomas and human head and neck tumors. Furthermore, direct injection of DP1 into day 7 established MCA205 tumors in C57BL/6 mice resulted in the induction of tumor apoptosis and subsequent reduction in tumor volume. These results suggest that DP1 may be used clinically to treat accessible solid tumors or as an adjuvant therapy in conjunction with radiotherapy, standard chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or surgical debulking.
Adenovirus E1A, simian virus 40 tumor antigen, and human papillomavirus E7 protein share the capacity to disrupt the interaction between transcription factor E2F and the retinoblastoma gene product.	The adenovirus E1A gene product, the simian virus 40 large tumor antigen, and the human papillomavirus E7 protein share a short amino acid sequence that constitutes a domain required for the transforming activity of these proteins. These sequences are also required for these proteins to bind to the retinoblastoma gene product (pRb). Recent experiments have shown that E1A can dissociate complexes containing the transcription factor E2F bound to pRb, dependent on this conserved sequence element. We now show that the E7 protein and the simian virus 40 large tumor antigen can dissociate the E2F-pRb complex, dependent on this conserved sequence element. We also find that the E2F-pRb complex is absent in various human cervical carcinoma cell lines that either express the E7 protein or harbor an RB1 mutation, suggesting that the loss of the E2F-pRb interaction may be an important aspect in human cervical carcinogenesis. We suggest that the ability of E1A, the simian virus 40 large tumor antigen, and E7 to dissociate the E2F-pRb complex may be a common activity of these viral proteins that has evolved to stimulate quiescent cells into a proliferating state so that viral replication can proceed efficiently. In circumstances in which a lytic infection does not proceed, the consequence of this action may be to initiate the oncogenic process in a manner analogous to the mutation of the RB1 gene.
Complexes containing the retinoblastoma gene product recognize different DNA motifs related to the E2F binding site.	The retinoblastoma tumor-suppressor gene encodes a 105-kDa nuclear phosphoprotein (RB) that can associate with DRTF-1 and E2F. These two transcription factors can recognize the same DNA motif in the adenovirus E2A promoter and can bind to it by themselves or in association with RB. In the present report, we describe the use of CASTing (cyclic amplification and selection of targets) to determine the consensus binding site of RB-containing complexes. An anti-human RB antibody was used to isolate RB-containing complexes formed after mixing nuclear extracts obtained from human diploid fibroblasts with a pool of random oligonucleotides flanked with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers. After the immunoselection, the DNA was isolated, amplified, mixed with fresh nuclear extract and reselected. After six CASTing cycles, the DNA was cloned and sequenced. We found that the highest affinity motifs recognized by RB-containing complexes are related to the E2F/DRTF-1 binding site and fall into three classes: TTTTCCCGCCAAAA, TTTTCCCGCCTTTTTT or TTTTCCCGCGCTTTTTT. Competition experiments revealed that these three classes are functionally equivalent to each other and to the E2F/DRTF-1 binding site in the adenovirus E2A promoter. Screening these sequences against a DNA database identified their presence in non-coding regions of many oncogenes, growth factor genes and in the RB gene itself.
The DP-1 transcription factor is required for keratinocyte growth and epidermal stratification.	The epidermis is a stratified epithelium constantly replenished through the ability of keratinocytes in its basal layer to proliferate and self-renew. The epidermis arises from a single-cell layer ectoderm during embryogenesis. Large proliferative capacity is central to ectodermal cell and basal keratinocyte function. DP-1, a heterodimeric partner of E2F transcription factors, is highly expressed in the ectoderm and all epidermal layers during embryogenesis. To investigate the role of DP-1 in epidermal morphogenesis, we inhibited DP-1 activity through exogenous expression of a dominant-negative mutant (dnDP-1). Expression of the dnDP-1 mutant interferes with binding of E2F/DP-1 heterodimers to DNA and inhibits DNA replication, as well as cyclin A mRNA and protein expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated that the cyclin A promoter is predominantly bound in proliferating keratinocytes by complexes containing E2F-3 and E2F-4. Thus, the mechanisms of decreased expression of cyclin A in the presence of dnDP-1 seem to involve inactivation of DP-1 complexes containing E2F-3 and E2F-4. To assess the consequences on epidermal morphogenesis of inhibiting DP-1 activity, we expressed dnDP-1 in rat epithelial keratinocytes in organotypic culture and observed that DP-1 inhibition negatively affected stratification of these cells. Likewise, expression of dnDP-1 in embryonic ectoderm explants produced extensive disorganization of subsequently formed epidermal basal and suprabasal layers, interfering with normal epidermal formation. We conclude that DP-1 activity is required for normal epidermal morphogenesis and ectoderm-to-epidermis transition.
A novel repressive E2F6 complex containing the polycomb group protein, EPC1, that interacts with EZH2 in a proliferation-specific manner.	The transcriptional repressor E2F6 has been identified as a component of two distinct polycomb group protein (PcG)-containing complexes, suggesting a mechanism for the recruitment of repressive complexes to target sequences in DNA. Whereas one complex is involved in the repression of classic E2F target genes in G0, a role for E2F6 within the cell cycle has yet to be defined. We searched for novel E2F6-binding proteins using a yeast two-hybrid screen and identified the PcG protein, EPC1. We showed that, both in vitro and in vivo, E2F6, DP1, and EPC1 form a stable core complex with repressive activity. Furthermore, we identified the proliferation-specific PcG, EZH2, as an EPC1-interacting protein. Using affinity purification, we showed that E2F6, DP1, EPC1, EZH2, and Sin3B co-elute, suggesting the identification of a novel E2F6 complex that exists in vivo in both normal and transformed human cell lines. EZH2 is required for cellular proliferation and consistent with this, EZH2 elutes with the E2F6-EPC1 complex only in proliferating cells. Thus we have identified a novel E2F6-PcG complex (E2F6-EPC1) that interacts with EZH2 and may regulate genes required for cell cycle progression.
Acquisition of essential somatic cell cycle regulatory protein expression and implied activity occurs at the second to third cell division in mouse preimplantation embryos.	It is clear that G1-S phase control is exerted after the mouse embryo implants into the uterus 4.5 days after fertilization (E4.5); null mutants of genes that control cell cycle commitment such as max, rb (retinoblastoma), and dp1 are embryonic lethal after implantation with proliferation phenotypes. But, a number of studies of genes mediating proliferation control in the embryo after fertilization-implantation have yielded confusing results. In order to understand when embryos might first exert G1-S phase regulatory control, we assayed preimplantation mouse embryos for the acquisition of expression of mRNA, protein, and phospho-protein for max, Rb, and DP-1, and for the proliferation-promoting phospho-protein forms of mycC (thr58/ser62) and Rb (ser795). The key findings are that: (1) DP-1 protein was present in the nucleus as early as the four-cell stage onwards, (2) max protein was in the nucleus, suggesting function from the four-cell stage onwards, (3) both mycC and Rb all form protein was present at increasing quantities in the cytoplasm from the 2 cell and 4/8 cell stage, respectively, (4) the phosphorylated form of mycC phospho was present in the nucleus at high levels from the two-cell stage through blastocyst-stage, and (5) the phosphorylated form of Rb was detected at low levels in the two-cell stage embryo and was highly expressed at the 4/8-cell stage through the blastocyst stage. Taken together, these data suggest that activation of mycC phospho/max dimer pairs, (E2F)/DP-1 dimer pairs, and repression of Rb inhibition of cell cycle progression via phosphorylation at ser795 occurs at the earliest stages of embryonic development. In addition, the presence of max, mycC phospho, DP-1, and Rb phospho in the nuclei of embryonic and placental lineage cells in the blastocyst and in trophoblast stem cells suggests that a similar type of cell cycle regulation is present throughout preimplantation development and in both embryonic and extra-embryonic cell lineages.
Reduction of total E2F/DP activity induces senescence-like cell cycle arrest in cancer cells lacking functional pRB and p53.	E2F/DP complexes were originally identified as potent transcriptional activators required for cell proliferation. However, recent studies revised this notion by showing that inactivation of total E2F/DP activity by dominant-negative forms of E2F or DP does not prevent cellular proliferation, but rather abolishes tumor suppression pathways, such as cellular senescence. These observations suggest that blockage of total E2F/DP activity may increase the risk of cancer. Here, we provide evidence that depletion of DP by RNA interference, but not overexpression of dominant-negative form of E2F, efficiently reduces endogenous E2F/DP activity in human primary cells. Reduction of total E2F/DP activity results in a dramatic decrease in expression of many E2F target genes and causes a senescence-like cell cycle arrest. Importantly, similar results were observed in human cancer cells lacking functional p53 and pRB family proteins. These findings reveal that E2F/DP activity is indeed essential for cell proliferation and its reduction immediately provokes a senescence-like cell cycle arrest.
Adenovirus E1a prevents the retinoblastoma gene product from complexing with a cellular transcription factor.	The transforming proteins of several DNA tumour viruses, including adenovirus E1a and simian virus 40 large T antigen, complex with the retinoblastoma (Rb) tumour-suppressor gene product. This requires regions in these viral proteins necessary for transformation and is thought to inactivate the growth-suppressing properties of the Rb protein by disrupting its interaction with cellular targets. Indeed, regions of Rb required to form a complex with E1a and large T antigen are often mutated in transformed cells. The level at which the Rb protein regulates proliferation is unknown, although one possibility is transcription. We have previously characterized a sequence-specific transcription factor, DRTF1, the activity of which is downregulated as embryonal carcinoma stem cells differentiate. DRTF1 is found in several discrete protein complexes (a, b and c) which are of different sizes but have the same DNA specificity. We now show that one of these also contains the Rb protein and, further, that the adenovirus E1a protein causes the dissociation of the Rb protein from this complex. This requires conserved regions 1 and 2 of E1a that are known to be required for efficient transformation. These results demonstrate that the Rb protein forms a complex with a DNA-bound transcription factor, and suggests that the Rb protein might act by regulating transcription.
The E2F transcription factor is a cellular target for the RB protein.	Although it is generally believed that the product of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (RB1) is an important regulator of cell proliferation, the biochemical mechanism for its action is unclear. We now show that the RB protein is found in a complex with the E2F transcription factor and that only the under phosphorylated form of RB is in the E2F complex. Moreover, the adenovirus E1A protein can dissociate the E2F-RB complex, dependent on E1A sequence also critical for E1A to bind to RB. These sequences are also critical for E1A to immortalize primary cell cultures and to transform in conjunction with other oncogenes. Taken together, these results suggest that the interaction of RB with E2F is an important event in the control of cellular proliferation and that the dissociation of the complex is part of the mechanism by which E1A inactivates RB function.
The retinoblastoma protein copurifies with E2F-I, an E1A-regulated inhibitor of the transcription factor E2F.	Recently, we identified an inhibitory protein, E2F-I, that blocks the DNA-binding activity of the transcription factor E2F. We also showed that the adenovirus E1A protein reverses this inhibitory activity of E2F-I, thereby restoring the DNA-binding activity of E2F. We have now further purified this inhibitory activity and show that the most purified preparation of E2F-I contains a 105 kd E1A-binding protein. This 105 kd E1A-binding protein cross-reacts with two different antibodies against the retinoblastoma (RB) gene product. Moreover, the RB gene product copurifies with E2F-I activity. Taken together, we conclude that the product of the RB gene is a part of E2F-I and is involved in the regulation of E2F activity.
The T/E1A-binding domain of the retinoblastoma product can interact selectively with a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein.	A DNA-binding site selection and enrichment procedure revealed a sequence-specific DNA-binding activity selectively associated with glutathione S-transferase-retinoblastoma protein chimeras (GST-RB) that had been incubated with a human cell extract. Appropriate mutant forms of GST-RB, incubated in equivalent extracts, did not associate with this specific DNA-binding activity, and a peptide replica of the HPV E7 RB-binding segment selectively inhibited the association of GST-RB with the sequence-specific DNA-binding protein(s). Sequence analysis of oligonucleotides with high affinity for GST-RB complexes, as well as the results of competition binding studies, strongly suggest that RB can associate specifically with the transcription factor E2F or with a protein having closely related DNA-binding properties.
Regulation of E2F-1 gene expression by p130 (Rb2) and D-type cyclin kinase activity.	Previous experiments have demonstrated that the regulation of E2F-1 transcription factor activity is critical for the maintenance of normal cell proliferation control. Regulation of E2F-1 is accomplished through at least two mechanisms: posttranslational regulation by binding proteins such as Rb and transcriptional regulation of the E2F-1 gene. The E2F-1 gene promoter has recently been isolated to examine this latter aspect of E2F-1 regulation. Preliminary studies demonstrate that the E2F-1 promoter is under E2F-dependent negative control during the cell growth response, being transcriptionally repressed through E2F sites in G0 and early G1. We now demonstrate that the presence of an E2F DNA-binding complex containing the Rb-related p130 protein (Rb2) correlates with E2F-1 gene repression and that overexpression of p130 inhibits transcription from the E2F-1 promoter. Moreover, D-type cyclin-dependent kinase activity specifically activates the E2F-1 promoter by relieving E2F-mediated repression but is inhibited by coexpression of the cdk4 and cdk6 inhibitor p16 (CDKN2, MTS1, INK4). Taken together, these findings suggest that E2F-1 gene expression is controlled during cell cycle progression by a regulatory network involving at least one oncogene (cyclin D1) and several potential tumor suppressor genes.
Cell cycle regulation of the cyclin A gene promoter is mediated by a variant E2F site.	Cyclin A is involved in the control of S phase and mitosis in mammalian cells. Expression of the cyclin A gene in nontransformed cells is characterized by repression of its promoter during the G1 phase of the cell cycle and its induction at S-phase entry. We show that this mode of regulation is mediated by the transcription factor E2F, which binds to a specific site in the cyclin A promoter. It differs from the prototype E2F site in nucleotide sequence and protein binding; it is bound by E2F complexes containing cyclin E and p107 but not pRB. Ectopic expression of cyclin D1 triggers premature activation of the cyclin A promoter by E2F, and this effect is blocked by the tumor suppressor protein p16INK4.
Induction by herpes simplex virus of free and heteromeric forms of E2F transcription factor.	We have determined that HSV causes rapid and large increases in cell-cycle-regulated free E2F and S-phase p107/E2F DNA binding activities in asynchronous cultures of C33A cells. Induction occurred by 4 hr postinfection and coincided with the appearance of viral encoded immediate-early and delayed-early proteins, i.e., when viral DNA replication normally commences. No increase in E2F activities occurred when cells were infected with viruses expressing mutant regulatory proteins ICP4 or ICP27, or mutant replication proteins ICP8, pol or helicase, or when cells were infected with wild-type virus in the presence of inhibitors of DNA synthesis. In contrast, ICP8 mutant-infected cells contained elevated amounts of NF kappa B activity equivalent to WT virus, no induction of Sp1 relative to WT virus, and reduced ATF/CREB activity relative to WT virus. Results of transient expression assays with E2F-responsive reporters indicated that the net effect of induction of both active (free E2F) and repressive (p107/E2F) complexes was a decrease in AdE2 promoter activity and an increase in c-myc promoter activity. Taken together these results suggest that HSV can cause unscheduled changes in the amount and functional status of a cell-cycle-regulated transcription factor. These results are discussed in light of possible roles for viral-induced alterations in E2F, especially as related to imposing or overriding cell-cycle checkpoints.
Interaction of the 72-kilodalton human cytomegalovirus IE1 gene product with E2F1 coincides with E2F-dependent activation of dihydrofolate reductase transcription.	Three polypeptides are produced from the major immediate-early (IE) region of human cytomegalovirus by alternative splicing. The IE gene products regulate subsequent viral and cellular gene expression. We previously reported that cotransfection of a genomic clone of the major IE region stimulated transient expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase driven by the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) promoter and that an intact E2F site was required for the trans activation (M. Wade, T. F. Kowalik, M. Mudryj, E.-S. Huang, and J. C. Azizkhan, Mol. Cell. Biol. 12:4364-4374, 1992). With the availability of cDNA clones for the individual major IE proteins, we sought to determine which of these proteins exerted this effect and whether the IE protein(s) interacted with E2F. In this study, we use cotransfection to demonstrate that the 55- and 86-kDa major IE proteins from the IE2 region can each moderately trans activate the DHFR promoter and that the 72-kDa IE1 protein stimulates DHFR transcription to a much higher level. Furthermore, trans activation through the 72-kDa IE1 protein is in part E2F dependent, while activation by the 55- and 86-kDa IE proteins is E2F independent. We also demonstrate by in vitro pull-down assays that the 72-kDa IE1 protein can specifically interact with the DNA binding domain of E2F1 (amino acids 88 to 191) in the presence of nuclear extract. Moreover, antibodies to either E2F1 or IE72 will immunoprecipitate both E2F and IE72 from cells that stably express IE72, and antibody to E2F1 will immunoprecipitate IE72 from normal human fibroblast cells infected with human cytomegalovirus.
Characterization of cis-regulatory elements of the c-myc promoter responding to human GM-CSF or mouse interleukin 3 in mouse proB cell line BA/F3 cells expressing the human GM-CSF receptor.	Interleukin 3 (IL-3) or granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) activates c-fos, c-jun, and c-myc genes and proliferation in both hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cells. Using a series of deletion mutants of the beta subunit of human GM-CSF receptor (hGMR) and inhibitors of tyrosine kinase, two distinct signaling pathways, one for activation of c-fos and c-jun genes, and the other for cell proliferation and activation of c-myc gene have been elucidated. In contrast to wealth of information on the pathway leading to activation of c-fos/c-jun genes, knowledge of the latter is scanty. To clarify the mechanisms of activation of c-myc gene by cytokines, we established a transient transfection assay in mouse proB cell line BA/F3 cells expressing hGMR. Analyses of hGMR beta subunit mutants revealed two cytoplasmic regions involved in activation of the c-myc promoter, one is essential and the other is dispensable but enhances the activity. These regions are located at the membrane proximal and the distal regions covering amino acid positions 455-544 and 544-589, respectively. Characterization of cis-acting regulatory elements of the c-myc gene showed that the region containing the P2 promoter initiation site is sufficient to mediate the response to mIL-3 or hGM-CSF. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay using an oligonucleotide corresponding to the distal putative E2F binding site revealed that p107/E2F complex, the negative regulator of E2F, decreased, and free E2F increased after mIL-3 stimulation. These results support the thesis that mIL-3 or hGM-CSF regulates the c-myc promoter by altering composition of the E2F complexes at E2F binding site.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and cyclin A interaction with E2F are targets for tyrosine induction of B16 melanoma terminal differentiation.	L-Tyrosine promotes a dramatic increase in melanogenesis and an apparent replicative senescence in B16 melanoma (M. Strasberg-Rieber and M. Rieber, Cancer Res., 53:2469-2471, 1993). Since cyclins are implicated in controlling cell proliferation and differentiation, we have now investigated their relationship to melanocytic growth arrest and pigmentation. In B16 melanoma cells enriched in G1 by serum starvation or synchronized in late G1/early S phase by exposure to hydroxyurea, L-tyrosine overrides mitogenic signals and induces terminal differentiation without cytotoxicity. This correlates with a decrease in cyclin A and cyclin E-dependent kinase 2 activity and with an altered interaction of cyclin A with the transcription factor E2F. This activity involves a lower level of the catalytic cdK2 kinase protein without a concomitant decrease in cyclin A or cyclin E. Upon addition of serum or removal of hydroxyurea, cells resume cell cycle progression and the ability to form tumors in vivo, but these properties are irreversibly inhibited in tyrosine-treated cells. Our data suggest that targeted inactivation of cdK2 with specific inducers of differentiation favors reacquisition of tumor growth control.
DP and E2F proteins: coordinating transcription with cell cycle progression.	Transcriptional control during the G1/S transition is important in regulating cell cycle progression. The transcription factor DRTF1/E2F is believed to play a crucial role in this process by integrating the activity of the machinery that drives the cell cycle with the transcription apparatus. Being the point of convergence for growth-promoting and growth-inhibitory signals, it is a pivotal cellular target for molecules which subvert normal cell cycle control, such as oncoviral proteins. Recent studies have indicated that members of two distinct families of proteins, DP and E2F, interact combinatorially as DP/E2F heterodimers in DRTF1/E2F. The activities of both DP and E2F proteins are under cell cycle control, being influenced by the level of phosphorylation imparted through the cell cycle regulated activity of cyclin-dependent kinases. Both DP and E2F proteins are endowed with proto-oncogenic activity and, conversely, have been implicated in regulating apoptosis. Current evidence suggests therefore that the activity of DRTF1/E2F is instrumental in regulating progression through the cell cycle.
pRB, p107 and the regulation of the E2F transcription factor.	Small DNA tumor viruses, such as adenovirus, encode proteins that deregulate the cell cycle. These proteins are potent transforming agents when tested in standard oncogenic assays. For adenovirus the best characterized viral oncoproteins are the early region 1A (E1A) products. Mutational studies have shown that E1A's oncogenic ability is determined primarily by its ability to bind to certain cellular proteins and interfere with their function. One of these cellular targets for E1A is the product of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene, pRB. pRB is a negative regulator of cell proliferation, and its inactivation has been shown to be an important oncogenic step in the development of many human cancers. In adenovirusmediated transformation, E1A binds to pRB and inactivates it, thus functionally mimicking the loss of pRB often seen in human tumors. There is now compelling evidence to suggest that pRB regulates transcription at specific phases of the cell cycle by physically associating with key transcription factors. The best characterized target of pRB is the transcription factor E2F. The interaction of pRB and E2F leads to the inhibition of E2F-mediated transactivation. Most of the genes that are known to be controlled by E2F have key roles in the regulation of cell proliferation. During cell cycle progression, phosphorylation of pRB appears to change its conformation and E2F is released. In pathogenic settings E2F transactivation is not regulated by pRB binding. In human tumors with mutations in the retinoblastoma gene, functional pRB is absent and hence can no longer inhibit E2F activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of adenovirus 12 E1A transcription: E2F and ATF motifs in the E1A promoter bind nuclear protein complexes including E2F1, DP-1, cyclin A and/or RB and mediate transcriptional (auto)activation.	Nuclear factors NFI and NFIII are involved in transcription of the E1A oncogene of adenovirus 12. In addition, the E-box binding transcription factor ESF-1 was found to activate basal transcription from the proximal transcription start site TS2. Deletion of a region upstream from the distal start site TS1 was reported to abolish E1A transcription completely. Two motifs for transcription factors, one for members of the E2F family and one that was related to ATF motifs in the HTLV-1 LTR, are localized in this region. We examined the binding of nuclear proteins to these motifs and studied their role in (auto)activation of Ad12 E1A transcription from TS1. We found several cell type specific DNA-protein complexes in Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays (EMSA). For HeLa, 293, U937, and A549 cells, participation of E2F-1, DP-1, cyclin A, and RB was involved in formation of some complexes only, assuming participation of factors different from E2F-1 or DP-1 in others. One main and 2-3 minor specific complexes appeared in EMSA when the ATF-motif was examined. Partial cross-competitions occurred in competition experiments between the neighbouring E2F and ATF-motifs, suggesting cofactors or bridging proteins in formation or stabilization of some complexes. Transcription from TS1 mediated by these motifs was analysed using a CAT-reporter system, where neither the ATF- nor the E2F-motif alone imparted striking activation of transcription. In contrast, considerable and synergistic activation was observed when both sites were present in the CAT-construct. E1A autoactivation mediated by these sites was about twofold compared with a ninefold activation described for the complete E1A promoter.
Interferon-alpha inhibits cyclin E- and cyclin D1-dependent CDK-2 kinase activity associated with RB protein and E2F in Daudi cells.	The state of phosphorylation of retinoblastoma (RB) protein is regulated by CDK2 and CDC2 kinases. In the studies presented here, we have investigated the effect of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) on cyclin-dependent kinases in Daudi cells which were synchronized at different points of the cell cycle progression. We observed that the IFN-alpha enhances the expression of underphosphorylated RB protein in Daudi cells released from the G1/S, and this was closely associated with the inhibition of CDK2 kinase and not CDC2 kinase activity. The observed IFN-alpha-sensitive CDK2 kinase activity was dependent on Cyclin E and cyclin D1 but not on cyclin A and was physically associated with transcriptional factors: RB and E2F. In addition, treatment of G1/S Daudi cells with IFN-alpha also inhibited the ability of CDK2 enzyme to phosphorylate the RB protein in vitro. These results suggest possible involvement of cell cycle kinases in IFN-alpha action.
p53 and E2F-1 cooperate to mediate apoptosis.	The tumor-suppressor protein p53 appears to function at the G1 phase of the cell cycle as a checkpoint in response to DNA damage. Mutations in the p53 gene lead to an increased rate of genomic instability and tumorigenesis. The E2F-1 transcription factor is a protein partner of the retinoblastoma-susceptibility gene product, RB. E2F-1 appears to function as a positive regulator or signal for entry into S phase. To explore possible interactions of p53 and E2F-1 in the cell cycle, a human E2F-1 expression plasmid was introduced into a murine cell line containing a temperature-sensitive p53 allele which produces a p53 protein in the wild-type conformation at 32 degrees C and the mutant form at 37.5 degrees C. Coexpression of the wild-type p53 protein and E2F-1 in these cells resulted in a rapid loss of cell viability through a process of apoptosis. Thus, the cell cycle utilizes an interacting or communicative pathway between RB-E2F-1 and p53.
Transcription from TATA-less promoters: dihydrofolate reductase as a model.	The promoters of many of the genes encoding the so-called "housekeeping" enzymes, oncogenes, growth factors and their receptors, and transcription factors, do not contain a canonical TATA box, which is known to direct transcription initiation. The mechanisms through which TATA-less promoters are regulated, and their transcription start sites selected, have begun to yield to investigation. Using the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene as a model, recent work on this group of genes has been reviewed. Control of transcription initiation and the role of "initiator" sequences, as well as their binding factors, in particular YY1 and E2F, are addressed. In the DHFR gene, neither the E2F site at the major initiation region nor the upstream Sp1 sites can alone produce wild-type initiation, despite the fact that each of these sites has certain properties of initiators. Many TATA-less genes are growth regulated, that is, transcription is increased in response to stimulation of cell proliferation. Although both Sp1 and E2F have been implicated in growth regulation, our recent studies suggest that Sp1 sites alone can confer a growth-dependent increase in transcription in the late G1 and early S phases of the cell cycle. The regulatory role of E2F, which binds to many TATA-less promoters and mediates viral stimulation of transcription, is also reviewed.
E2F-1:DP-1 induces p53 and overrides survival factors to trigger apoptosis.	The E2F DNA binding activity consists of a heterodimer between E2F and DP family proteins, and these interactions are required for association of E2F proteins with pRb and the pRb-related proteins p107 and p130, which modulate E2F transcriptional activities. E2F-1 expression is sufficient to release fibroblasts from G0 and induce entry into S phase, yet it also initiates apoptosis. To investigate the mechanisms of E2F-induced apoptosis, we utilized interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent 32D.3 myeloid cells, a model of hematopoietic progenitor programmed cell death. In the absence of IL-3, E2F-1 alone was sufficient to induce apoptosis, and p53 levels were diminished. DP-1 alone was not sufficient to induce cell cycle progression or alter rates of death following IL-3 withdrawal. However, overexpression of both E2F-1 and DP-1 led to the rapid death of cells even in the presence of survival factors. In the presence of IL-3, levels of endogenous wild-type p53 increased in response to E2F-1, and coexpression of DP-1 further augmented p53 levels. These results provide evidence that E2F is a functional link between the tumor suppressors p53 and pRb. However, induction of p53 alone was not sufficient to trigger apoptosis, suggesting that the ability of E2F to override survival factors involves additional effectors.
Regulation and activity of the retinoblastoma protein family in growth factor-deprived and TGF(beta)-treated keratinocytes.	The retinoblastoma protein (pRB) and the pRB-related pocket proteins p130 and p107, when bound to DNA via the E2F family of transcription factors, suppress transcription and through this may mediate growth arrest. We show here that in HaCat cells arrested by treatment with TGFbeta the only pocket protein associating with DNA-bound E2F is pRB. This contrasts the situation in HaCat cells arrested via growth factor withdrawal, where we find that both pRB and p130 can bind. The above implies that p130 participates in regulating E2F-dependent genes upon growth factor deprivation but not upon TGFbeta arrest. More importantly perhaps, in TGFbeta-arrested cells pRB alone in association with its partner E2Fs may be in charge and sufficient to control E2F-dependent gene transcription. Although p130 is not associated with a DNA-binding E2F complex in TGFbeta-treated cells, it is present in such cells in its underphosphorylated form. We provide evidence for a serum-induced process that may regulate p130 by a mechanism independent of p130 hyperphosphorylation.
Cell cycle regulation of the murine cyclin E gene depends on an E2F binding site in the promoter.	Cyclin E controls progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle in mammalian fibroblasts and potentially in many other cell types. Cyclin E is a rate-limiting activator of cdk2 kinase in late G1. The abundance of cyclin E is controlled by phase-specific fluctuations in the mRNA level; in mammalian fibroblasts, mRNA is not detected under conditions of serum starvation and is accumulated upon serum stimulation, with expression starting in mid-G1. Here, we report the cloning of the murine cyclin E promoter. We isolated a 3.8-kb genomic fragment that contains several transcriptional start sites and confers cell cycle regulation on a luciferase reporter gene. This fragment also supports transcriptional activation by adenovirus E1A, a known upstream regulator of cyclin E gene expression. An E2F binding site which is required for G1-specific activation of the cyclin E promoter in synchronized NIH 3T3 cells was identified in this fragment.
Expression of dominant-negative mutant DP-1 blocks cell cycle progression in G1.	Unregulated expression of the transcription factor E2F promotes the G1-to-S phase transition in cultured mammalian cells. However, there has been no direct evidence for an E2F requirement in this process. To demonstrate that E2F is obligatory for cell cycle progression, we attempted to inactivate E2F by overexpressing dominant-negative forms of one of its heterodimeric partners, DP-1. We dissected the functional domains of DP-1 and separated the region that facilitate heterodimer DNA binding from the E2F dimerization domain. Various DP-1 mutants were introduced into cells via transfection, and the cell cycle profile of the transfected cells was analyzed by flow cytometry. Expression of wild-type DP-1 or DP-1 mutants that bind to both DNA and E2F drove cells into S phase. In contrast, DP-1 mutants that retained E2F binding but lost DNA binding arrested cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The DP-1 mutants that were unable to bind DNA resulted in transcriptionally inactive E2F complexes, suggesting that the G1 arrest is caused by formation of defective E2F heterodimers. Furthermore, the G1 arrest instigated by these DP-1 mutants could be rescued by coexpression of wild-type E2F or DP protein. These experiments define functional domains of DP and demonstrate a requirement for active E2F complexes in cell cycle progression.
Cell cycle regulation by the retinoblastoma family of growth inhibitory proteins.	The retinoblastoma family of growth-inhibitory proteins act by binding and inhibiting several proteins with growth-stimulatory activity, the most prominent of which is the cellular transcription factor E2F. In higher organisms, progression through the cell division cycle is accompanied by the cyclical activation of a number of protein kinases, the cyclin-dependent kinases. Phosphorylation of retinoblastoma family proteins by these cyclin-dependent kinases leads to release of the associated growth-stimulatory proteins which in turn mediate progression through the cell division cycle.
Shared role of the pRB-related p130 and p107 proteins in limb development.	The p130 protein shares extensive sequence similarity with pRB, the product of the retinoblastoma gene, and is a major E2F-associated protein in quiescent cells. To investigate its biological function, we have mutated p130 via gene targeting in the mouse. Homozygous mutation of p130 had little discernible effect on development or on the growth of mouse embryo fibroblasts in culture. Much of the E2F activity that normally associates with p130 in serum-starved mouse embryo fibroblasts associated instead with the highly related p107 protein. To determine whether p130 and p107 have overlapping biological roles, we produced mice having simultaneous inactivation of the p130 and p107 genes. Such mice exhibited deregulated chondrocyte growth, defective endochondral bone development, shortened limbs, and neonatal lethality. These findings indicate that p130 and p107 play an important role in limb development through their abilities to control chondrocyte proliferation. Thus, in certain settings p107 and p130 perform growth-regulatory functions that are not fulfilled by pRB.
Epidermal growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor regulate the activity of the insulin-like growth factor I gene promoter.	The expression of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is regulated by hormones, oncogenes, and other growth factors, and is markedly decreased or even absent in senescent human diploid fibroblasts. In previous articles, we have reported that the SV40 large T antigen increases the production of IGF-I and that the expression of the IGF-I gene is negatively regulated by an E2F binding site in the IGF-I promoter. We have now investigated the activity of the IGF-I promoter, in response to stimulation of cells by either PDGF or EGF. Both growth factors stimulate the activity of the IGF-I promoter, indicating that they regulate the levels of expression of IGF-I. When the E2F binding sequence in the IGF-I promoter is mutated, the IGF-I promoter is constitutively active and no longer responds to the action of growth factors.
Constitutive expression of the E2F1 transcription factor in fibroblasts alters G0 and S phase transit following serum stimulation.	The E2F1 transcription factor was constitutively expressed in NIH3T3 fibroblasts to determine its effect on the cell cycle. These E2F1 cell lines were not tightly synchronized in G0 phase of the cell cycle following serum starvation, as are normal fibroblasts. Instead, the cells are spread throughout G0 and G1 phase with a portion of the population initiating DNA synthesis. Upon serum stimulation, the remaining cells in G0/G1 begin to enter S phase immediately but with a reduced rate. Constitutive expression of E2F1 appears to primarily affect the G0 phase, since transit of proliferating E2F1 cell lines through G1 phase is the same as control cells. Consistent with a shortened G0 phase, the E2F1 cell lines have a significantly reduced cellular volume. Additionally, the first S phase after serum stimulation, but not subsequent S phases, is nearly doubled in the E2F1 cell lines compared with control cells. Cell lines expressing a deletion mutant of E2F1 (termed E2F1d87), known to significantly affect cell shape, have cell cycle and volume characteristics similar to the E2F1 expressing cells. However, all S phase durations are considerably lengthened and the cells demonstrate delayed growth after plating.
Histone deacetylase and retinoblastoma protein]	The balance between cellular proliferation and differentiation is strictly controlled in the cell and the deregulation of this balance can lead to tumour formation. The tumour suppressor protein Rb plays a key role in this balance essentially by repressing progression through the cell cycle and thereby it blocks the cell in G1 phase. Rb represses S phase genes through the recruitment of an enzyme which modifies DNA structure, the histone deacetylase HDAC1. The Rb/HDAC1 complex is a key element in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation. Moreover, this complex is likely to be a target for transforming viral proteins.
Tra1p is a component of the yeast Ada.Spt transcriptional regulatory complexes.	The yeast Ada and TBP class of Spt proteins interact in multiple complexes that are required for transcriptional regulation. We have identified Tra1p as a component of these complexes through tandem mass spectrometry analysis of proteins that associate with Ngg1p/Ada3p. TRA1 is an essential gene and encodes a 3744-amino acid protein that is a member of a group of proteins including the catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase, ATM and TRRAP, with carboxyl-terminal regions related to phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases. The interaction between Tra1p and Ada/Spt components was verified by the reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation of Ada2p and Tra1p from whole cell extracts in one or more complexes containing Spt7p. Tra1p cofractionated with Ngg1p and Spt7p through consecutive chromatography on Mono Q, DNA-cellulose, and Superose 6 columns. Binding of Tra1p to DNA-cellulose required Ada components. The association of Tra1p with two Ada.Spt complexes was suggested by its cofractionation with Ngg1p and Spt7p in two peaks on the Mono Q column. In the absence of Ada2p, the elution profile of Tra1p shifted to a distinct peak. Despite the similarity of Tra1p to a group of putative protein kinases, we have not detected protein kinase activity within immunoprecipitates of Tra1p or the Ada.Spt complexes.
Atypical protein kinase Clambda binds and regulates p70 S6 kinase.	p70 S6 kinase (p70 S6K) has been implicated in the regulation of cell cycle progression. However, the mechanism of its activation is not fully understood. In the present work, evidence is provided that an atypical protein kinase C (PKC) isotype, PKClambda, is indispensable, but not sufficient, for the activation of p70 S6K. Both the regulatory and kinase domains of PKClambda associate directly with p70 S6K. Overexpression of the kinase domain without kinase activity or the regulatory domain of PKClambda results in the suppression of the serum-induced activation of p70 S6K. In addition, two types of dominant-negative mutants of PKClambda, as well as a kinase-deficient mutant of p70 S6K, suppress serum-induced DNA synthesis and E2F activation. The overexpresion of the active form of PKClambda, however, fails to activate p70 S6K. These results suggest that PKClambda is a mediator in the regulation of p70 S6K activity and plays an important role in cell cycle progression.
Gamma-irradiation-induced cell cycle arrest and cell death in a human submandibular gland cell line: effect of E2F1 expression.	This study examined the effect of gamma-irradiation (5 and 10 Gy) on the human submandibular cell line (HSG). Radiation treatment (5 Gy and 10 Gy) induced a dose-dependent decrease in cell proliferation, with a G2/M arrest of the cell cycle, and an increase in cell death (cells with <2n DNA increased from 7% in control cells to 34% and 40% in 5 and 10 Gy irradiated cells, respectively). [Ca2+]i measurements demonstrated that the status of internal Ca2+ stores, and muscarinic receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization, in irradiated cells was comparable to that in non-irradiated cells. These data suggest that 1) irradiated HSG cells maintain normal physiology and 2) internal Ca2+ store depletion does not account for the decreased cell proliferation. To manipulate the radiation-induced cell cycle arrest, we examined the effect of the transcription factor E2F1, which has been shown to induce cell cycle progression in HSG cells (Lillibridge and O'Connell, 1997, J. Cell. Physiol., 1 72:343-350). The ability of irradiated HSG cells to express and appropriately route proteins was demonstrated by using adenovirus-mediated expression of beta-galactosidase, alpha1-antitrypsin, and aquaporin-1. Infection of HSG cells with an adenoviral vector encoding E2F1, either 12 h before or immediately following irradiation, but not post-irradiation, induced maintenance of cells in the S phase of the cell cycle, reduced the number of cells arrested at G2/M, and decreased the rate of appearance of cells with <2n DNA. While the mechanism of irradiation-induced cell death has not yet been confirmed, these data suggest that expression of the E2F1 gene product in HSG cells can be a useful strategy to manipulate cell cycle events and reduce the initial loss of cells due to radiation.
Tumor suppressor proteins as regulators of cell differentiation.	The products of the tumor suppressor genes are considered to function as specific inhibitors of tumor cell growth. In this communication, we present evidence to show that these proteins inhibit tumor cell proliferation by participating in the activation of tumor cell differentiation. The ML-1 human myeloblastic leukemia cells used in this study proliferate when treated with insulin-like growth factor I and transferrin but differentiate to monocytes when exposed to tumor necrosis factor alpha or transforming growth factor beta1, or to macrophage-like cells when treated with both these cytokines. Initiation of proliferation but not of differentiation was followed by a 20- to 25-fold increase in the nuclear level of the DNA polymerase-associated processivity factor PCNA and of the proliferation-specific transcription factor E2F1. In contrast, induction of differentiation but not of proliferation was followed by a 25- to 30-fold increase in the nuclear level of the tumor suppressor proteins p53 (wild type), pRb, and p130/Rb2 and of the p53-dependent cyclin kinase inhibitor p21/Cip1. p53 and p21/Cip1, respectively, inhibit the expression and activation of PCNA, whereas p130 and pRb, respectively, inhibit the expression and activation of E2F1. As a result, G1-S-associated DNA and mRNA synthesis is inhibited, growth uncoupled from differentiation, and maturation enabled to proceed. Where this function of the tumor suppressor proteins is impaired, the capacity for differentiation is lost, which leads to the sustained proliferation that is characteristic of the cancer cell.
Role of E2F-1 in chemosensitivity.	The E2F family of transcription factors, in partnership with DP proteins, is thought to regulate transcription of genes that encode protein products that are required for DNA synthesis, which include important cancer chemotherapeutic targets such as thymidylate synthase and dihydrofolate reductase. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of overexpression of human E2F-1 cDNA on chemosensitivity in a human fibrosarcoma cell line, HT-1080. The E2F-1-overexpressing HT-1080 cells had a shorter doubling time both in vitro and in vivo. Associated with an up-regulation of TS, E2F-1-transfected cells were more resistant to 5-fluorouracil than were untransfected cells. These E2F-1 transfectants, although resistant to fluoropyrimidines and serum deprivation, were more sensitive to etoposide, doxorubicin, and SN38 (the active metabolite of irinotecan) but not to Taxol.
The transcription factor E2F-1 in SV40 T antigen-induced cerebellar Purkinje cell degeneration.	Transgenic targeting of SV40 large T antigen (Tag) expression to murine cerebellar Purkinje cells induces these normally postmitotic neurons to undergo DNA synthesis and apoptosis. It has been proposed that these effects of Tag are due to the binding of Tag to pRb, which leads to the release and activation of the transcription factor E2F. Here it is reported that E2F and CDC2, the protein product of a gene regulated by E2F, were detectable in the Purkinje cell nuclei of Tag expressing transgenic animals. To directly test whether E2F-1 is part of the mechanism of Tag-induced Purkinje cell degeneration, transgenic mice that overexpress E2F-1 specifically in cerebellar Purkinje cells were generated. Although E2F-1 itself did not affect Purkinje cells, it did accelerate Tag-induced ataxia and Purkinje cell loss, suggesting that E2F-1 can contribute to the mechanism of Tag-induced Purkinje cell degeneration.
Regulation of expression and activity of distinct pRB, E2F, D-type cyclin, and CKI family members during terminal differentiation of P19 cells.	The cell cycle regulatory proteins, which include cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks), cdk inhibitors (CKIs), cyclins, and the pRB, and E2F families of proteins, constitute a network of interacting factors which govern exit from or passage through the mammalian cell cycle. While the proteins within these families have similar structural characteristics, each family member exhibits distinct expression patterns during embryogenesis and distinct biological activities. In order to begin to understand the tissue-specific roles of these interacting factors, we determined the expression pattern and activity of the pRB, E2F, cyclin, cdk, and CKI families of cell cycle regulatory proteins during retinoic acid-induced (neuronal pathway) and DMSO-induced (cardiac muscle pathway) differentiation of the pluripotent murine embryonal carcinoma cell line, P19. We demonstrate here that P19 terminal differentiation causes lineage-specific changes in the expression and activity of distinct members of the E2F, pRB, cyclin, and CKI families. Furthermore, dynamic changes in the activities of these cell cycle regulatory proteins occur through several overlapping mechanisms, culminating in repression of DNA-binding activity by all of the E2F family members as cells terminally differentiate.
Human papillomavirus type 16 E7 protein sensitizes cervical keratinocytes to apoptosis and release of interleukin-1alpha.	Interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) is a multifunctional cytokine that promotes inflammation, tissue remodeling and epithelial hyperplasia. Keratinocytes produce and sequester large amounts of biologically active IL-1alpha which can be released after injury or infection. We show that high level expression of human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 E6 and E7 oncoproteins enhanced release of IL-1alpha from cultures of normal cervical keratinocytes (relative effectiveness E7 > E6/E7 >> E6 > control). The amount of IL-1alpha released was directly related to the ability of E7 or E6/E7 to stimulate apoptosis. E7 proteins that bound the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) strongly (HPV-16 and -18) induced more IL-1alpha release than those that bound poorly (HPV-6 and an HPV-16 E7 24gly mutant). Furthermore, overexpression of the E2F-1 transcription factor, a downstream target of Rb, induced extensive apoptosis and IL-1alpha release. Apoptosis and IL-1alpha release in response to growth factor removal occurred in part through a p53-independent pathway as coexpression of E6 and downregulation of p53 did not prevent either response. Immunohistochemical analyses showed that IL-1alpha was expressed by keratinocytes in normal cervical epithelia, low and high grade dysplasias, and cervical carcinomas. However, HPV-16 E6/E7 RNA expression and apoptosis increased in parallel in proliferating keratinocytes in severe dysplasias and carcinomas suggesting that IL-1alpha release is associated with progression to high grade disease. Thus, high level expression of the HPV-16 E7 protein sensitizes keratinocytes to apoptosis which results in release of IL-1alpha.
Cell cycle-regulated expression of mammalian CDC6 is dependent on E2F.	The E2F transcription factors are essential regulators of cell growth in multicellular organisms, controlling the expression of a number of genes whose products are involved in DNA replication and cell proliferation. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the MBF and SBF transcription complexes have functions similar to those of E2F proteins in higher eukaryotes, by regulating the timed expression of genes implicated in cell cycle progression and DNA synthesis. The CDC6 gene is a target for MBF and SBF-regulated transcription. S. cerevisiae Cdc6p induces the formation of the prereplication complex and is essential for initiation of DNA replication. Interestingly, the Cdc6p homolog in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Cdc18p, is regulated by DSC1, the S. pombe homolog of MBF. By cloning the promoter for the human homolog of Cdc6p and Cdc18p, we demonstrate here that the cell cycle-regulated transcription of this gene is dependent on E2F. In vivo footprinting data demonstrate that the identified E2F sites are occupied in resting cells and in exponentially growing cells, suggesting that E2F is responsible for downregulating the promoter in early phases of the cell cycle and the subsequent upregulation when cells enter S phase. Our data also demonstrate that the human CDC6 protein (hCDC6) is essential and limiting for DNA synthesis, since microinjection of an anti-CDC6 rabbit antiserum blocks DNA synthesis and CDC6 cooperates with cyclin E to induce entry into S phase in cotransfection experiments. Furthermore, E2F is sufficient to induce expression of the endogenous CDC6 gene even in the absence of de novo protein synthesis. In conclusion, our results provide a direct link between regulated progression through G1 controlled by the pRB pathway and the expression of proteins essential for the initiation of DNA replication.
Key roles for E2F1 in signaling p53-dependent apoptosis and in cell division within developing tumors.	Apoptosis induced by the p53 tumor suppressor can attenuate cancer growth in preclinical animal models. Inactivation of the pRb proteins in mouse brain epithelium by the T121 oncogene induces aberrant proliferation and p53-dependent apoptosis. p53 inactivation causes aggressive tumor growth due to an 85% reduction in apoptosis. Here, we show that E2F1 signals p53-dependent apoptosis since E2F1 deficiency causes an 80% apoptosis reduction. E2F1 acts upstream of p53 since transcriptional activation of p53 target genes is also impaired. Yet, E2F1 deficiency does not accelerate tumor growth. Unlike normal cells, tumor cell proliferation is impaired without E2F1, counterbalancing the effect of apoptosis reduction. These studies may explain the apparent paradox that E2F1 can act as both an oncogene and a tumor suppressor in experimental systems.
Mutation of E2f-1 suppresses apoptosis and inappropriate S phase entry and extends survival of Rb-deficient mouse embryos.	Mice mutant for the Rb tumor suppressor gene die in mid-gestation with defects in erythropoiesis, cell cycle control, and apoptosis. We show here that embryos mutant for both Rb and its downstream target E2f-1 demonstrate significant suppression of apoptosis and S phase entry in certain tissues compared to Rb mutants, implicating E2f-1 as a critical mediator of these effects. Up-regulation of the p53 pathway, required for cell death in these cells in Rb mutants, is also suppressed in the Rb/E2f-1 double mutants. However, double mutants have defects in cell cycle regulation and apoptosis in some tissues and die at approximately E17.0 with anemia and defective skeletal muscle and lung development, demonstrating that E2F-1 regulation is not the sole function of pRB in development.
Accumulated clonal genetic alterations in familial and sporadic colorectal carcinomas with widespread instability in microsatellite sequences.	A subset of hereditary and sporadic colorectal carcinomas is defined by microsatellite instability (MSI), but the spectra of gene mutations have not been characterized extensively. Thirty-nine hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome carcinomas (HNPCCa) and 57 sporadic right-sided colonic carcinomas (SRSCCa) were evaluated. Of HNPCCa, 95% (37/39) were MSI-positive as contrasted with 31% (18/57) of SRSCCa (P < 0.000001), but instability tended to be more widespread in SRSCCa (P = 0.08). Absence of nuclear hMSH2 mismatch repair gene product by immunohistochemistry was associated with germline hMSH2 mutation (P = 0.0007). The prevalence of K-ras proto-oncogene mutations was similar in HNPCCa and SRSCCa (30% (11/37) and 30% (16/54)), but no HNPCCa from patients with germline hMSH2 mutation had codon 13 mutation (P = 0.02), and two other HNPCCa had multiple K-ras mutations attributable to subclones. 18q allelic deletion and p53 gene product overexpression were inversely related to MSI (P = 0.0004 and P = 0.0001, respectively). Frameshift mutation of the transforming growth factor beta type II receptor gene was frequent in all MSI-positive cancers (85%, 46/54), but mutation of the E2F-4 transcription factor gene was more common in HNPCCa of patients with germline hMSH2 mutation than in those with germline bMLH1 mutation (100% (8/8) versus 40% (2/5), P = 0.04), and mutation of the Bax proapoptotic gene was more frequent in HNPCCa than in MSI-positive SRSCCa (55% (17/31) versus 13% (2/15), P = 0.01). The most common combination of mutations occurred in only 23% (8/35) of evaluable MSI-positive cancers. Our findings suggest that the accumulation of specific genetic alterations in MSI-positive colorectal cancers is markedly heterogeneous, because the occurrence of some mutations (eg, ras, E2F-4, and Bax genes), but not others (eg, transforming growth factor beta type II receptor gene), depends on the underlying basis of the mismatch repair deficiency. This genetic heterogeneity may contribute to the heterogeneous clinical and pathological features of MSI-positive cancers.
Regulation of cell growth-dependent expression of mammalian CDC6 gene by the cell cycle transcription factor E2F.	CDC6 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae regulates the DNA replication initiation through the origin recognition complex (ORC). Identification of a human homolog of the CDC6 gene (HsCdc6) suggests a universal role of the gene product in DNA replication. Expression of HsCdc6 is growth-regulated. We investigated the molecular basis of growth-regulated expression of mammalian Cdc6. The promoter activity of isolated HsCdc6 upstream region was activated at late G1 and G1/S boundary in the cell cycle of rat embryonic fibroblast REF52 cells by the addition of serum. The isolated promoter was activated by exogenous expression of E2F without serum stimulation. However a mutant promoter lacking the E2F recognition sites failed to respond to serum stimulation and exogenous expression of E2F. Expression of endogenous Cdc6 was induced by exogenous expression of E2F. Therefore, we concluded that the growth-regulated expression of mammalian Cdc6 was mediated by E2F. Moreover, we demonstrated that exogenous overexpression of either HsCdc6 or HsOrc1 failed to induce DNA synthesis unlike overexpression of E2F1, even though E2F1 induced both Cdc6 and Orc1, suggesting that E2F may regulate the expression of another gene(s), besides Cdc6 and Orc1, required for induction of cellular DNA synthesis in mammalian cells.
A novel E2F binding protein with Myc-type HLH motif stimulates E2F-dependent transcription by forming a heterodimer.	The human embryonal carcinoma cells NEC14 can be induced to differentiate morphologically by the addition of 10(-2) M N, N'-hexamethylene-bis-acetamide and cease to grow in several days. Transcription factors of the E2F/DP family have been shown to be closely related to the regulation of cell proliferation. To analyse cellular proteins which interact with E2F in NEC14 cells, cDNA clones encoding E2F binding proteins were isolated from a lambdaZAP II NEC14 cell library with the 32P-labeled GST (Glutathione S-transferase)-E2F-1 fusion protein as a probe. One of the clones encodes E2FBP1 which has the helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif, but lacks the basic domain and the zipper structure usually found at N- and C-terminal sides to the HLH motif, respectively. The arrangement of amino acids in the helix 1 and helix 2 regions is quite similar to those of Mxi and Mad, but different from those of E2F-1 and DP-1. Western blot analysis of the immunoprecipitates prepared with anti-E2FBP1 antibody showed that E2FBP1 associates with both E2F-1 and DP-1 in vivo. E2FBP1 alone has no DNA binding activity, but bind to the E2F site through heterodimerization with E2F-1 but not with DP-1. Although E2FBP1 lacks the transactivation domain, it stimulates E2F site-dependent transcription in cooperation with E2F-1.
The E2F-family proteins induce distinct cell cycle regulatory factors in p16-arrested, U343 astrocytoma cells.	We previously demonstrated that P16Ink4a (p16) expression in p16-deficient U343 astrocytoma cells causes a G1 cell cycle arrest, profound changes in cytoskeletal proteins and alterations in expression and activity of the pRB and E2F family proteins. We examine here the effects of expressing wild type or mutant versions of the downstream targets of p16 in U343 astrocytomas. We first attempted to block proliferation of U343 cells using the dominant mutant of pRB, deltap34. Expression of this mutant in the human osteosarcoma, SAOS-2, potently blocked proliferation but did not affect the cell cycle of U343 cells. We next showed that expression of E2F-1, E2F-2, E2F-3 and E2F-4 are each able to overcome this p16-dependent cell cycle arrest but exhibit distinct biological activities. Adenoviral-mediated expression of E2F-1, E2F-2, E2F-3, or E2F-4 overcame the p16-dependent cell cycle block and induced alterations in cell morphology. E2F-5, only in conjunction with DP1, promoted cell cycle progression. For both E2F-1 and E2F-2, but not E2F-3 or E2F-5/DP1, cell cycle re-entry was associated with almost quantitative cell death. Only small numbers of dying cells were observed in E2F-4-expressing cultures. Expression of the different E2F's altered the expression of distinct sets of cell cycle regulatory proteins. E2F-1 induced endogenous E2F-4 expression and also caused an increase in pRB, p107 and cyclin E levels. Expression of E2F-4 caused a weak increase in E2F-1 levels but also strongly induced pRB, p107, p130 and cyclin E. However, E2F-1 and E2F-4 clearly regulate expression of distinct genes, demonstrated when E2F-4 caused a threefold increase in the levels of cdk2 whereas E2F-1 failed to increase in this cyclin dependent kinase. Similarly, expression of E2F-1 or E2F-2 were shown to have distinct effects on the expression of cdk2, cyclin E and pRB despite both of these closely related E2F-family members potently inducing cell death. Thus, E2F-1, E2F-2, E2F-3 and E2F-4 are able to overcome the p16-dependent proliferative block in U343 astrocytoma cells. While overcoming this cell cycle block, each of the E2F's uniquely affect the expression of a number of cell cycle regulatory proteins and have distinct abilities to promote cell death.
NT-3-mediated TrkC receptor activation promotes proliferation and cell survival of rodent progenitor oligodendrocyte cells in vitro and in vivo.	We have previously described the expression of a functional full-length trkC transcript for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) receptor in oligodendroglia (OL) cells (Kumar and de Vellis, 1996). To date, the role of NT-3 and its signal transduction cascade in OL remains poorly defined. We report that the NT-3 responsive population of cells in the OL lineage are the progenitor cells and that the addition of NT-3 results in the autophosphorylation of p145TrkC. Furthermore, NT-3-mediated activation of p21ras and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase2 (ERK2), were also observed in the progenitor OL cells. These protein tyrosine kinase (PTK)-induced responses were sensitive to the presence of K252a, an inhibitor for tyrosine kinase. We have determined that NT-3 promotes progenitor OL cell commitment to enter into S-phase of cell cycle to initiate DNA synthesis, in a manner similar to platelet-derived growth factor-AA (PDGF-AA). NT-3 thus plays a role in cell proliferation when present alone, while augmenting the proliferation capacity of PDGF-AA as indicated by the nuclear binding activity of the transcription factor, E2F-1. Both the initiation and progression of mitotic events were confirmed by the expression of c-myc and cdc2 in the presence of NT-3, PDGF-AA or NT-3 plus PDGF-AA. A cell survival assay examining interleukin 1-beta-converting enzyme (ICE)-like protease-mediated cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) revealed an increase in OL progenitor cell death in the absence of NT-3 or PDGF-AA. In corroboration with our in vitro studies, in vivo results show an increased expression of the progenitor OL cell marker, glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) within 48 hr following an intracranial injection of NT-3, PDGF-AA, or NT-3 plus PDGF-AA in PN4-5 rats. These novel findings suggest that PDGF-AA potentiates the OL progenitor cell's ability to enter into the S-phase of the cell cycle and that NT-3 can augment this activity. Furthermore, PDGF-AA and NT-3 can block ICE-like protease-mediated PARP fragmentation in progenitor OL cells. These results provide important information which further delineates the signal transduction cascades and the role of NT-3 and PDGF-AA on OL progenitor cells.
p53-independent role of MDM2 in TGF-beta1 resistance.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) inhibits cell proliferation, and acquisition of TGF-beta resistance has been linked to tumorigenesis. A genetic screen was performed to identify complementary DNAs that abrogated TGF-beta sensitivity in mink lung epithelial cells. Ectopic expression of murine double minute 2 rescued TGF-beta-induced growth arrest in a p53-independent manner by interference with retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product (Rb)/E2F function. In human breast tumor cells, increased MDM2 expression levels correlated with TGF-beta resistance. Thus, MDM2 may confer TGF-beta resistance in a subset of tumors and may promote tumorigenesis by interference with two independent tumor suppressors, p53 and Rb.
Characterization of the 3' untranslated region of mouse E2F1 mRNA.	The E2F family of transcription factors has been implicated in the regulation of the G1 to S phase transition of the mammalian cell cycle. We have focused on characterizing the cell cycle stage-specific expression of one family member, E2F1. Previous studies indicated that there are two mouse E2F1 (mE2F1) mRNA species whose abundance peaks in early S phase. However, it was unknown as to what constituted the structural difference between the two mE2F1 mRNAs and whether or not they encoded identical proteins. We have now cloned sequences corresponding to the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the mE2F1 gene. Northern blot analyses using different probes demonstrated that the two E2F1 mRNAs were distinguished by differences in the length of their 3' UTRs. We found that the longer (2.7-kb) mE2F1 mRNA contained two consensus RNA instability elements that the shorter (2.2-kb) mE2F1 mRNA lacked. However, a comparison of the stability of the 2.7-kb and the 2.2-kb mE2F1 mRNAs suggests that both mE2F1 mRNAs are fairly stable, having a half-life of 6-9h in both asynchronously growing cells and in the S phase of synchronized cells. Thus, we have determined that both mE2F1 mRNAs contain the identical coding region of the E2F1 protein and that enforced expression of mE2F1 mRNA should not be hampered by problems with RNA stability.
Restoration of E2F expression rescues vascular endothelial cells from tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced apoptosis.	Normally, quiescent endothelial cells (EC) line the inner surface of arteries and protect against thrombosis and neointimal growth. A variety of noxious stimuli, including balloon angioplasty, may compromise EC integrity, thereby initiating proliferation and triggering the local release of cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha).
Endogenous E2F-1 promotes timely G0 exit of resting mouse embryo fibroblasts.	Much evidence strongly suggests a positive role for one or more E2F species in the control of exit from G0/G1. Results described here provide direct evidence that endogenous E2F-1, as predicted, contributes to progression from G0 to S. By contrast, cycling cells lacking an intact E2F-1 gene demonstrated normal cell cycle distribution. Therefore, E2F-1 exerts a unique function leading to timely G0 exit of resting cultured primary cells, while at the same time being unnecessary for normal G1 to S phase progression of cycling cells.
