Retinoic acid repressed the expression of c-fos and c-jun and induced apoptosis in regenerating rat liver after partial hepatectomy.	Retinoic acid (RA), which was injected within 4 h after partial hepatectomy (PH), inhibited DNA synthesis in regenerating liver. The inhibition was accompanied by apoptosis, evidenced by in situ end labeling and gel electrophoresis of DNA fragmentation. Characteristic DNA fragmentation was obvious at 4 h and reached a maximum at 8 h after injection. Northern blot analysis revealed that RA repressed the expression of c-fos and c-jun at 15 and 30 min with the up-regulation of retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARgamma) and RARbeta at 2 h after PH. The transglutaminase II mRNA level and activity were increased by RA injection at 4 h and 8 h after PH, respectively. The mRNA levels of thymidylate synthase and thymidine kinase, which are rate determining enzymes of DNA synthesis, decreased in RA injected rats. No change was seen in the expression of p53 and p21WAF1/CIP1 which have been suggested to participate in the apoptosis process. These results suggest that RA exerts the antiproliferative activity only on the early stage of liver regeneration accompanied by the repression of c-fos and c-jun expression and induction of apoptosis.
Distribution and activity of transglutaminase in rat brain carcinogenesis and in gliomas.	Tissue transglutaminase is a calcium-dependent enzyme which may influence cell morphology, cytoskeletal processes and membrane functions. During rat brain carcinogenesis induced by transplacental administration of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea to BD IX rats, cytosolic tissue transglutaminase activity was increased by about 140% at 30 days of extrauterine life and returned towards the control values at 3-5 months. In the particulate fraction, enzyme activity progressively increased, reaching values similar to those present in the developed gliomas. Tissue transglutaminase activity in gliomas had a behavior inverse to that observed in controls, with a decrease (about 50%) in the cytosol and a marked increase (380%) in the particulate fraction, indicating a redistribution of enzyme activity.
A novel function for transglutaminase 1: attachment of long-chain omega-hydroxyceramides to involucrin by ester bond formation.	Transglutaminases (TGases) are defined as enzymes capable of forming isopeptide bonds by transfer of an amine onto glutaminyl residues of a protein. Here we show that the membrane-bound form of the TGase 1 enzyme can also form ester bonds between specific glutaminyl residues of human involucrin and a synthetic analog of epidermal specific omega-hydroxyceramides. The formation of a approximately 5-nm-thick lipid envelope on the surface of epidermal keratinocytes is an important component of normal barrier function. The lipid envelope consists of omega-hydroxyceramides covalently linked by ester bonds to cornified envelope proteins, most abundantly to involucrin. We synthesized an analog of natural omega-hydroxyceramides N-[16-(16-hydroxyhexadecyl)oxypalmitoyl]sphingosine (lipid Z). When recombinant human TGase 1 and involucrin were reacted on the surface of synthetic lipid vesicles containing lipid Z, lipid Z was attached to involucrin and formed saponifiable protein-lipid adducts. By mass spectroscopy and sequencing of tryptic lipopeptides, the ester linkage formation used involucrin glutamine residues 107, 118, 122, 133, and 496 by converting the gamma-carboxamido groups to lipid esters. Several of these residues have been found previously to be attached to ceramides in vivo. Mass spectrometric analysis after acetonide derivatization also revealed that ester formation involved primarily the omega-hydroxyl group of lipid Z. Our data reveal a dual role for TGase 1 in epidermal barrier formation and provide insights into the pathophysiology of lamellar ichthyosis resulting from defects of TGase 1 enzyme.
Cell-surface transglutaminase promotes fibronectin assembly via interaction with the gelatin-binding domain of fibronectin: a role in TGFbeta-dependent matrix deposition.	Assembly of fibronectin into a fibrillar matrix is critical for regulation of cell growth and migration, embryogenesis and wound healing. We have previously shown that cell-surface tissue transglutaminase serves as an integrin-binding adhesion coreceptor for fibronectin. Here we report that transglutaminase strongly promotes fibronectin assembly mediated by alpha5beta1 integrin. This effect is independent from transglutaminase-mediated enzymatic crosslinking of fibronectin and separate from the ability of transglutaminase to stimulate cell spreading. Surface transglutaminase increases the binding of fibronectin to cells via interaction with its gelatin-binding domain that contains modules I6II1,2I7-9 and lacks integrin-binding motifs. The gelatin-binding fragment of fibronectin binds to surface transglutaminase on cells in suspension but does not interact with cell monolayers where surface transglutaminase is occupied by fibronectin. Surface transglutaminase colocalizes with growing fibronectin fibrils at early timepoints of matrix formation and remains codistributed with fibronectin matrices thereafter. The observed stimulation of matrix assembly by transglutaminase is blocked by the gelatin-binding fragment of fibronectin, but is not strongly perturbed by its N-terminal fragment consisting of modules I1-5. These results implicate an interaction between transglutaminase and the gelatin-binding domain of fibronectin in matrix assembly and suggest its role in initiation of fibrillogenesis. However, blocking antibodies against alpha5beta1 integrin or the cell-binding fragment of fibronectin that contains modules III2-11 most strongly suppress matrix formation and abolish the effects of transglutaminase. Hence, transglutaminase cooperates with but can not substitute for alpha5beta1 integrin in fibronectin assembly. Treatment of fibroblasts with transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) significantly increases surface expression of transglutaminase and its association with beta1 integrins, but not with alphaVbeta3 integrin. TGFbeta enhances the binding of fibronectin to the cell surface and elevates matrix formation, whereas antibody against transglutaminase or the gelatin-binding fragment of fibronectin suppresses these effects, indicating an involvement of transglutaminase in TGFbeta-dependent fibronectin assembly. Therefore, TGFbeta-induced fibronectin matrix deposition during normal wound healing or fibrotic disorders may depend on upregulation of integrin-associated surface transglutaminase.
Lysine and polyamines are substrates for transglutamination of Rho by the Bordetella dermonecrotic toxin.	Bordetella dermonecrotic toxin (DNT) catalyzes the transglutamination of glutamine-63/61 of Rho GTPases, thereby constitutively activating Rho proteins. Here we identified second substrates for transglutamination of RhoA by DNT. The enzymatically active fragment of DNT (residues 1136 to 1451, DeltaDNT) induced the incorporation of L-[(14)C]lysine in RhoA in a concentration-dependent manner. Also, Rac and Cdc42, but not Ras, were transglutaminated with lysine by DeltaDNT. Transglutamination of the GTPase with L-lysine inhibited intrinsic and Rho-GAP-stimulated GTP hydrolysis of RhoA. In contrast to lysine, treatment of RhoA with alanine, arginine, and glutamine were not able to substitute for lysine in the transglutamination reaction. DNT increased the incorporation of L-[(14)C]lysine into embryonic bovine lung cells. Microinjection of GST-RhoA together with the enzymatically active DNT fragment into Xenopus oocytes, subsequent affinity purification of modified GST-RhoA, and mass spectrometry identified attachment of putrescine or spermidine at glutamine-63 of RhoA. A comparison of putrescine, spermidine, and lysine as substrates for DNT-induced transglutamination of RhoA revealed that lysine is a preferred second substrate at least in vitro.
Pathogenesis of axonal dystrophy and demyelination in alphaA-crystallin-expressing transgenic mice.	We recently described a transgenic mouse strain overexpressing hamster alphaA-crystallin, a small heat shock protein, under direction of the hamster vimentin promoter. As a result myelin was degraded and axonal dystrophy in both central nervous system (especially spinal cord) and peripheral nervous system occurred. Homozygous transgenic mice developed hind limb paralysis after 8 weeks of age and displayed progressive loss of myelin and axonal dystrophy in both the central and peripheral nervous system with ongoing age. Pathologically the phenotype resembled, to a certain extent, neuroaxonal dystrophy. The biochemical findings presented in this paper (activity of the enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase and transglutamase, myelin protein zero expression levels and blood sugar levels) confirm this pathology and exclude other putative pathologies like Amyothrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy. Consequently, an excessive cytoplasmic accumulation of the transgenic protein or a disturbance of the normal metabolism are considered to cause the observed neuropathology. Therefore, extra-ocular alphaA-crystallin-expressing transgenic mice may serve as a useful animal model to study neuroaxonal dystrophy.
Thyroxine stimulates transglutaminase activity in articular chondrocytes.	Thyroid hormones induce features of the hypertrophic phenotype in mature articular chondrocytes as well as in growth plate chondrocytes. Hypertrophic chondrocytes are responsible for extracellular matrix mineralization, with formation of bone mineral in growth plate cartilage and pathologic calcium crystals in aging articular cartilage. Elevated activity levels of the two transglutaminase (Tgase) enzymes (type II Tgase and Factor XIIIA (FXIIIA)) have recently been described as additional features of hypertrophic growth plate chondrocytes. Because Tgases may participate in pathologic mineralization in aging cartilage, we explored the effects of thyroid hormones on Tgase activity in articular chondrocytes.
Transglutaminase potentiates ligand-dependent proteasome dysfunction induced by polyglutamine-expanded androgen receptor.	Expansion of the CAG trinucleotide repeat encoding glutamine in the androgen receptor gene leads to spinobulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), a neurodegenerative disorder in a family of polyglutamine diseases with enigmatic pathogenic mechanisms. One established property of glutamine residues is their ability to act as an amine accepter in a transglutaminase-catalyzed reaction, resulting in a proteolytically resistant glutamyl-lysine cross-link. To examine underlying disease mechanisms we investigated the relationship between polyglutamine-expanded androgen receptor and transglutaminase. We found androgen receptor N-terminal fragments are a substrate for transglutaminase. Western blots of the proteins following incubation with transglutaminase show that several different epitopes of the AR appear to be lost. We propose that this is due to the transglutaminase cross-linking of the AR, which interferes with antibody recognition. Furthermore, HEK GFP(u)-1 cells expressing polyglutamine-expanded androgen receptor and transglutaminase exhibit ligand-dependent proteasome dysfunction; this effect was not observed in the presence of cystamine, a transglutaminase inhibitor. In addition, transglutaminase-mediated isopeptide bonds were detected in brains of SBMA transgenic mice, but not in controls, suggesting involvement of transglutaminase-catalyzed reactions in polyglutamine disease pathogenesis. Our hypothesis is that cross-linked AR cannot to be degraded by the proteasome and obstructs the proteasome pore, preventing normal function. Because of the central role the ubiquitin-proteasome degradation system plays in fundamental cellular processes, any alteration in its function could cause cell death, ultimately contributing to SBMA pathogenesis.
Is Candida albicans a trigger in the onset of coeliac disease?	Coeliac disease is a T-cell-mediated autoimmune disease of the small intestine that is induced by ingestion of gluten proteins from wheat, barley, or rye. We postulate that Candida albicans is a trigger in the onset of coeliac disease. The virulence factor of C albicans-hyphal wall protein 1 (HWP1)-contains aminoacid sequences that are identical or highly homologous to known coeliac disease-related alpha-gliadin and gamma-gliadin T-cell epitopes. HWP1 is a transglutaminase substrate, and is used by C albicans to adhere to the intestinal epithelium. Furthermore, tissue transglutaminase and endomysium components could become covalently linked to the yeast. Subsequently, C albicans might function as an adjuvant that stimulates antibody formation against HWP1 and gluten, and formation of autoreactive antibodies against tissue transglutaminase and endomysium.
Analysis of epidermal-type transglutaminase (transglutaminase 3) in human stratified epithelia and cultured keratinocytes using monoclonal antibodies.	Epidermal-type transglutaminase (TGase 3) is involved in the cross-linking of structural proteins in the epidermis, which results in the formation of the cornified envelope. TGase 3 is activated by limited proteolysis of a 77 kDa zymogen during keratinocyte differentiation.
Activation of transglutaminase in mu-calpain null erythrocytes.	Intracellular transglutaminases (protein-glutamine: amine gamma-glutamyltransferase, EC 2.3.2.13) are calcium-dependent thiol enzymes that catalyze the covalent cross-linking of proteins, including those in the erythrocyte membrane. Several studies suggest that the activation of some transglutaminases is positively regulated by the calcium-dependent cysteine protease, mu-calpain. Using mu-calpain null (Capn1(-/-)) mouse erythrocytes, we demonstrate that the activation of soluble as well as membrane-bound forms of transglutaminase (TG2) in mouse erythrocytes was independent of mu-calpain. Also, the absence of mu-calpain or any detectable cysteine protease did not affect the transglutaminase activity in the erythrocyte lysate. Our studies also identify physiological substrates of mu-calpain in the erythrocyte membrane and show that their cleavage has no discernible effect on the transglutaminase mediated cross-linking of membrane proteins. Taken together, these data suggest the existence of a calpain-independent mechanism for the activation of transglutaminase 2 by calcium ions in the mouse erythrocytes and presumably also in non-erythroid cells.
Application of transglutaminase and fermizyme for sensory quality improvement of pastry.	The objective of the model experiment was to find out the improving effect of two selected enzymes, transglutaminase (i) and fermizyme (ii), added at different concentrations of 4.5 mg and 7.5 mg/300 g flour (i) and 15 mg and 60 mg/300 g flour (ii) to the pastry dough on the quality of end products. The investigation was aimed to observe some changes of the sensory parameters (sensory profile) of pastry produced from the freezer-stored dough (-18 +/- 2 degrees C/0, 1, 7 and 14 days), namely shape (camber), odour, taste, crust colour (thickness/hardness), crumb elasticity (porosity, colour, hardness), adhesiveness to palate, etc. It has been ascertained that the sensory quality is favourably affected by the addition of the lower concentration of both enzymes: transglutaminase, 4.5 mg/300 g flour and fermizyme, 15 mg/300 g flour in comparison to the control without enzymes. The cambering ratio values and other sensory profile parameters of pastry gradually decreased during the freezer storage of dough. The best sensory evaluation of both kinds of pastry was achieved after a one-day storage of doughs.
Characterisation and quantification of the reaction(s) catalysed by transglutaminase using the o-phthaldialdehyde reagent.	The potential application of the o-phthaldialdehyde (OPA) reagent for quantification of the type and extent of the reaction(s) catalysed by transglutaminase (TGase) during incubation with sodium caseinate (NaCN) was investigated. Initial studies were performed to ensure that NH3, a by-product of TGase activity, could be determined with the OPA reagent in trichloroacetic acid (TCA) supernatants of NaCN solutions. The detectable concentration of exogenously added NH3 (at NH3 concentrations > 10 mM) was found to decrease during extended incubation at 23, 37 and 50 degrees C and at either pH 7.0 or 8.0 in 4% w/v NaCN solutions, even when taking into account the evaporation of water from the sample. The recovery of NH3 from 12% w/v TCA supernatants of NaCN solutions spiked with 5 mm NH3 at 23 degrees C and pH 7.0 was found to be 88%. The release of NH3 and the decrease in epsilon-amino groups on incubating NaCN with TGase was subsequently quantified using the OPA reagent. Incubation of NaCN (4% w/v) with TGase at 23 degrees C resulted in progressive increases and decreases, respectively, in NH3 and -amino group concentration with increased incubation time. These changes were dependent on TGase:NaCN. It was estimated that approximately 20% of the available Lys residues in NaCN were involved in TGase-catalysed cross-links. However, the observed decrease in epsilon-amino group concentration was higher than expected. This may be due to concealment of noncross-linked amino groups in polymerised NaCN, making them unavailable for reaction with the OPA reagent.
Minoxidil sulfotransferase, a marker of human keratinocyte differentiation.	The sulfation of minoxidil is catalyzed by a sulfotransferase activity in a number of tissues including skin. To investigate further the nature of the minoxidil sulfotransferase activity in epithelial tissue and to compare this activity to that of cholesterol sulfotransferase, which has already been shown to be induced during the differentiation of epithelial cells, we cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes in a keratinocyte growth medium for 4 d, after which the media were replaced with either the same growth media or media with increasing Ca++ concentrations. Cholesterol sulfotransferase, minoxidil sulfotransferase, and transglutaminase were determined during the differentiation of the cells in the three media. Time-activity curves that suggested two different sulfotransferase activities were induced during the differentiation process. U-77581, a competitive inhibitor of minoxidil sulfotransferase activity, inhibited the sulfation of minoxidil sulfotransferase activity in the keratinocyte homogenates, but it did not inhibit the sulfation of cholesterol. These data indicate that at least two sulfotransferase activities are induced during the differentiation of epithelial keratinocytes and minoxidil sulfotransferase is an early marker of that differentiation.
The carboxy-terminal lysine of alpha B-crystallin is an amine-donor substrate for tissue transglutaminase.	A hexapeptide, corresponding to the sequence around the glutamine in beta A3-crystallin that functions as amine-acceptor for transglutaminase, was synthesized. This peptide was biotinylated and used as a probe to identify amine-donor substrates for transglutaminase among lens proteins. It was found that Ca(2+)-activated transglutaminase linked this peptide not only to several beta-crystallins but, unexpectedly, also to alpha B-crystallin. The C-terminal lysine residue of alpha B-crystalline could be identified as the site of linkage. This strengthens the notion that, at least in crystallins, all transglutaminase substrate residues are located in terminal extensions of the polypeptides. It was shown that in lens homogenate, alpha B-crystallin can be covalently crosslinked to beta-crystallins by transglutaminase. The transglutaminase-mediated crosslinking of alpha B-crystallin may have implications for its involvement in normal and pathological processes in lens and other tissues.
Effect of retinoic acid on liver transglutaminase activity and carbon tetrachloride-induced liver damage in mice.	Transglutaminase (TGase) activity in the cytosol fraction of the mouse liver increased following intraperitoneal injection of retinoic acid. Retinoic acid inhibited the carbon tetrachloride-induced increase in serum alanine transaminase activity. These findings suggest that TGase is involved in the effect of retinoic acid on carbon tetrachloride-induced liver damage.
Purification and properties of factor XIII from human placenta.	1. FXIII was isolated and purified over 4000 fold from human placenta to apparent electrophoretic homogeneity by a new procedure including ethanol precipitation. DEAE-Cellulose, molecular sieving on Sephacryl S-300 and Phenyl-Sepharose chromatography. 2. Its pI was about 5.1. Under appropriate conditions, the incubation of FXIII in the presence of thrombin did not lead to inactivation cut in the polypeptidic chain. 3. FXIII was also activated by CaCl2 and, in a lesser extent, by other divalent cations like SrCl2, BaCl2 or MgCl2. 4. The binding of calcium to FXIII exhibited a negative cooperativity. 5. The activity-pH curve of the calcium-activated enzyme did not appear very different from that of the thrombin-activated enzyme.
Transglutaminase activity in human brain tumors.	Transglutaminase (TG) activity was measured in tissue samples of 45 human brain tumors (pituitary adenomas, meningiomas and gliomas) obtained during neurosurgery. Biochemical analysis and histopathological classification were carried out in the same samples. Mean enzyme activity was highest in non-glial tumors, but due to a high variability of values no significant changes were found between the various histological groups. Thus, TG activity, although considered to play a role in neoplastic growth, does not represent a biochemical marker of malignancy in human brain tumors.
Role of transglutaminase and protein cross-linking in the repair of mucosal stress erosions.	We have recently demonstrated that polyamines are absolutely required for gastric and duodenal mucosal repair after stress. Polyamines act as substrates for transglutaminase and facilitate protein cross-linking. The current study tests whether transglutaminase and protein cross-linking are involved in the mechanism of mucosal healing. Rats were fasted 22 h, placed in restraint cages, and immersed in water to the xiphoid process for 6 h. Animals were killed immediately or 4, 12, or 24 h after stress. Gastric and duodenal mucosa were examined histologically and grossly, and transglutaminase activity was measured. Transglutaminase activity in gastric and duodenal mucosa was increased significantly from 0 to 8 h, peaking 4 h after the 6-h stress period. By 12 h, enzyme activity in duodenal mucosa had returned to control values while gastric mucosal transglutaminase did not decrease to control values until 24 h. Mucosal recovery from lesions produced by stress was evident 12 h after stress and was almost complete by 24 h. Dansylcadaverine (100 mg/kg, orally), a specific inhibitor of protein cross-linking, not only prevented the increases in transglutaminase but significantly decreased healing in both tissues. Oral administration of the polyamine spermidine (100 mg/kg) immediately after stress totally prevented inhibition of repair caused by blocking ornithine decarboxylase with difluoromethylornithine (DFMO, 500 mg/kg). Administration of dansylcadaverine, together with spermidine, significantly prevented the beneficial effect of spermidine on mucosal healing in the DFMO-treated animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transglutaminase catalyses the modification of glutamine side chains in the C-terminal region of bovine beta-lactoglobulin.	The transglutaminase-catalysed incorporation of primary amines (putrescine and monodansylcadaverine) into bovine beta-lactoglobulin has been studied. In the presence of 1 mM-dithiothreitol between 1 and 2 mol of amine can be incorporated per mol of beta-lactoglobulin subunit. There is very little incorporation of amines in the absence of reducing agent. By isolating and sequencing the modified peptides, the sites of modification have been identified as Gln-159 (preferred) and Gln-155. C.d. has been used to study the structure of beta-lactoglobulin over a range of pH values and in the presence or absence of dithiothreitol. The results are discussed in terms of the X-ray-crystallographically determined structure of beta-lactoglobulin.
Identification of Gln726 in nidogen as the amine acceptor in transglutaminase-catalyzed cross-linking of laminin-nidogen complexes.	The laminin-nidogen complex, the most abundant noncollagenous component of basement membranes, was recently shown to be a specific substrate for tissue transglutaminase (Aeschlimann, D., and Paulsson, M. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 15308-15317). Saturation experiments to determine the number of amine acceptor site(s) indicated a single reactive Gln residue in nidogen and none in laminin. Murine nidogen was labeled with [3H]putrescine in the tissue transglutaminase-catalyzed reaction, and two major radioactively labeled fragments, T70 and T40, were isolated after limited trypsin digestion. NH2-terminal sequencing showed that T40 is contained in T70 and corresponds to the rodlike structure of nidogen, made up of epidermal growth factor-like repeats. Three radioactively labeled peptides, obtained by extensive trypsin digestion of reduced and alkylated T40, were sequenced. In all a single residue, Gln726, was found to contain label. Sequencing of additional peptides, obtained after further treatment of the largest radioactively labeled peptide with endoproteinase Asp-N, gave the same result. Gln726 is located in an exposed loop between the second and the third EGF-like repeat in nidogen. This site is also conserved in the human sequence.
High amount of epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine cross-links in Mallory bodies.	Alcoholic hepatitis, the most severe form of alcoholic liver disease, is associated with inflammation, liver cell necrosis, and the appearance of Mallory bodies (MBs) in hepatocytes. Identical MBs can be experimentally induced in mouse livers by chronic griseofulvin or 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine treatment. MBs are filamentous cytoplasmic inclusions containing insoluble high molecular weight protein material. Covalent polymerization of intracellular proteins may occur through formation of epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine cross-links catalyzed by Ca(2+)-dependent transglutaminases. Therefore, isolated experimentally-induced MBs were analyzed for the presence of epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine bonds. Highly purified MBs contained 19.7 nmole (griseofulvin-induced) and 14.4 nmoles (3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine induced) of isodipeptide linkage, respectively, per mg of protein. These results suggest that transglutaminase-induced cross-linking of proteins plays a major role in MB formation.
Formation of salivary-mucosal pellicle: the role of transglutaminase.	The present investigation was carried out to identify salivary components of mucosal pellicles in vivo and explore further the mechanism of interaction between salivary molecules and buccal epithelial cells. By using specific antisera and immunoprotein blotting, high-(MG1) and low-(MG2) molecular-mass salivary mucins, amylase, salivary cystatins and proline-rich proteins were detected within mucosal pellicle in vivo. In addition, the data indicated that the mucins and proline-rich proteins could be cleaved into lower-molecular-mass products, whereas the proline-rich proteins could also be cross-linked into higher-molecular-mass complexes. The role of buccal epithelial cell transglutaminase in these interactions was further studied by utilizing purified iodinated amylase, neutral cystatin SN and acidic proline-rich proteins 1 and 3 (APRP1 and 3). After incubation with buccal epithelial cells in vitro 125I-labelled APRPs appeared to undergo a greater degree of cross-linking than 125I-labelled cystatin SN, as determined by SDS/PAGE/autoradiography. Amylase did not appear to be cross-linked at all. Recovery of 125I-labelled APRPs and 125I-labelled cystatin SN with epithelial cell envelopes after repeated extraction suggested that both molecules were cross-linked to envelope proteins, but that 125I-labelled APRPs were cross-linked to a greater degree than 125I-labelled cystatin SN. Cross-linking in buccal epithelial cell preparations was inhibited by an excess of methylamine hydrochloride, a transglutaminase substrate. In a further assessment of amylase, cystatin and APRPs as transglutaminase substrates, only APRP3 and a partially purified preparation of APRPs acted as an amine acceptor for the cross-linking of [14C]methylamine by purified transglutaminase, as determined by SDS/PAGE/fluorography. This reaction was completely inhibited by excess EDTA. The combined data from this study suggest that during mucosal pellicle formation multiple components of saliva adsorb to buccal epithelial cell surfaces, and that, within this group, selected components are enzymically cross-linked by an epithelial transglutaminase and/or proteolytically cleaved into smaller fragments.
The distribution of factor XIIIa-positive cells in the human fetus and placenta.	Immunohistochemical staining for factor XIIIa, a transglutaminase, revealed a variety of positively stained cells in human fetal tissues. Factor XIIIa-positive cells were most numerous in the dermis and connective tissues. Numerous large, stellate cells in placental villi, decidua, and chorionic membranes also expressed factor XIIIa at 7-9 weeks gestational age, before the onset of fetal hematopoiesis. There was heterogeneity in the staining for factor XIIIa in the early and late fetal tissues, in both rounded and in dendritic cells. In preparations of consecutive sections and in double-labelling experiments, some cells expressed both factor XIIIa and certain monocyte markers and were identified in close association with blood vessels and lymphoid organs in the late fetus and in the placental villi at the end of gestation. Other rounded and dendritic cells expressed factor XIIIa but not monocyte markers, and were found in adult and fetal connective tissues at all gestational ages. These results suggest that there are two factor XIIIa-positive cell populations. One population is present at all developmental stages, does not express monocyte markers, and probably differentiates in situ from primitive mesenchyme. The other population appears mainly after the onset of fetal hematopoiesis, coexpresses some monocyte markers, is HLA-DR positive and may be capable of antigen presentation.
Cell type-specific activation of intracellular transglutaminase 2 by oxidative stress or ultraviolet irradiation: implications of transglutaminase 2 in age-related cataractogenesis.	Transglutaminase (TGase) 2 is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme that modifies proteins by cross-linking or polyamination. An aberrant activity of TGase 2 has implicated its possible roles in a variety of diseases including age-related cataracts. However, the molecular mechanism by which TGase 2 is activated has not been elucidated. In this report, we showed that oxidative stress or UV irradiation elevates in situ TGase 2 activity. Neither the expression level nor the in vitro activity of TGase 2 appeared to correlate with the observed elevation of in situ TGase 2 activity. Screening a number of cell lines revealed that the level of TGase 2 activation depends on the cell type and also the environmental stress, suggesting that unrecognized cellular factor(s) may specifically regulate in situ TGase 2 activity. Concomitantly, we observed that human lens epithelial cells (HLE-B3) exhibited about 3-fold increase in in situ TGase 2 activity in response to the stresses. The activated TGase 2 catalyzed the formation of water-insoluble dimers or polymers of alphaB-crystallin, betaB(2)-crystallin, and vimentin in HLE-B3 cells, providing evidence that TGase 2 may play a role in cataractogenesis. Thus, our findings indicate that in situ TGase 2 activity must be evaluated instead of in vitro activity to study the regulation mechanism and function of TGase 2 in biological and pathological processes.
Susceptibility to transglutaminase of gliadin peptides predicted by a mass spectrometry-based assay.	A peptidomics approach was developed to identify transglutaminase-susceptible Q residues within a pepsin-trypsin gliadin digest. Based on tagging with a monodansylcadaverine fluorescent probe, six alpha/beta-, gamma-gliadin, and low molecular weight glutenin peptides were identified by nanospray tandem mass spectrometry. In functioning as an acyl acceptor, tissue transglutaminase was able to form complexes with the glutamine-rich gliadin peptides, whereas by lowering pH, the peptides were deamidated by transglutaminase at the same Q residues, which were previously transamidated. The main common feature shared by the peptides was the consensus sequence Q-X-P. Our findings offer relevant information for the understanding of how dietary peptides interact with the host organism in celiac disease.
Mediation of spontaneous knee osteoarthritis by progressive chondrocyte ATP depletion in Hartley guinea pigs.	Because articular chondrocytes reside in a hypoxic milieu, anaerobic glycolysis is central in generating ATP to support chondrocyte matrix synthesis and viability, with mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation possibly providing physiologic reserve ATP generation. Nitric oxide (NO) potently suppresses mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Because enhanced cartilage NO generation occurs in osteoarthritis (OA), we systematically tested for mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of OA.
Possible role of factor XIII subunit A in Fcgamma and complement receptor-mediated phagocytosis.	Besides its traditional role in hemostasis, factor XIII subunit A (FXIII-A) is supposed to function as a cellular transglutaminase and to be involved in certain intracellular processes, including cytoskeletal remodeling. To investigate its intracellular role, the aim of the present study was to follow changes in FXIII-A production in combination with the receptor-mediated phagocytic activities of monocytes/macrophages and to examine the phagocytic functions of monocytes in patients with FXIII-A deficiency. Human blood monocytes were isolated from the buffy coats of healthy volunteers and cultured for 4 days. The FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis of sensitized erythrocytes (EA) and the complement receptor (CR)-mediated phagocytosis of complement-coated yeast particles were studied during monocyte/macrophage differentiation. Changes in the gene expression of FXIII-A were detected by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. FXIII-A protein production was investigated with fluorescent image analysis at single cell level and Western immunoblot analysis. Both the FcgammaR and CR-mediated phagocytosis increased during culturing, which peaked on day 3. The phagocytic activity of the cells could be markedly inhibited with monodansylcadaverine, an inhibitor of the transglutaminase-induced crosslinking of proteins. The phagocytosis of EA, complement-coated and uncoated yeast particles was found to be strongly diminished in monocytes of FXIII-A deficient patients. The phagocytic functions of cultured cells showed a change in parallel with the alterations in FXIII-A mRNA expression, as well as with that in FXIII-A in protein synthesis detected by image and Western immunoblot analyses in concert. Our results suggest that FXIII-A plays a role in the Fcgamma and complement receptor-mediated phagocytic activities of monocytes/macrophages.
Polymerization and gelation of whey protein isolates at low pH using transglutaminase enzyme.	Dynamic and steady shear rheology is used to examine the synthesis of low-pH (approximately 4) whey protein gels obtained through a two-step process. The first step involves cross-linking of whey proteins at pH 8 and 50 degrees C using transglutaminase enzyme, while the second step entails cold-set acidification of the resulting solution using glucono-delta-lactone (GDL) acid. During the first step, the sample undergoes enzyme-catalyzed epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine bond formation with a substantial increase in viscosity. Acidification in the second step using GDL acid leads to a rapid decrease in pH with a concomitant increase in the elastic (G') and viscous (G' ') moduli and formation of a gelled network. We examine the large strain behavior of the gel samples using a relatively new approach that entails plotting the product of elastic modulus and strain (G'gamma) as a function of increasing dynamic strain and looking for a maximum, which corresponds to the yield or fracture point. We find the enzyme-catalyzed gels to have significantly higher yield/fracture stress and strain compared to cold-set gels prepared without enzyme or conventional heat-set gels. In addition, the elastic modulus of the enzyme-catalyzed gel is also higher than its non-enzyme-treated counterpart. These results are discussed in terms of the gel microstructure and the role played by the enzyme-induced cross-links.
Excitotoxic and post-ischemic neurodegeneration: Involvement of transglutaminases.	Neurodegeneration induced by excitotoxicity is a common feature in various neurological disorders. This pathological condition is caused by prolonged stimulation of glutamate receptor subtypes, followed by both intracellular Ca2+ overload and activation of specific genes, resulting in synthesis of enzymes involved in cell stress response. Using experimental in vitro models of excitotoxicity, we demonstrated that glutamate exposure up-regulated tissue transglutaminase in primary cultures of both cerebellar granule cells and astrocytes. These changes were consequent to receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx, as demonstrated by the inhibition with selective antagonists, MK-801 and GYKI 52466. Early increases in different transglutaminase isoforms were also observed in global cerebral ischemia, which closely resembles neuronal damage caused by NMDA receptor activation. These findings agree with a postulated role for transglutaminases in molecular mechanisms of several neurodegenerative diseases. Indeed, increased cross-linking reactions could be of pathologic relevance, as part of biochemical changes observed in neurological disorders.
Proteomic analysis of the Drosophila larval hemolymph clot.	Components of the insect clot, an extremely rapid forming and critical part of insect immunity, are just beginning to be identified (1). Here we present a proteomic comparison of larval hemolymph before and after clotting to learn more about this process. This approach was supplemented by the identification of substrates for the enzyme transglutaminase, which plays a role in both vertebrate blood clotting (as factor XIIIa) and hemolymph coagulation in arthropods. Hemolymph proteins present in lower amounts after clotting include CG8502 (a protein with a mucin-type domain and a domain with similarity to cuticular components), CG11313 (a protein with similarity to prophenoloxidase-activating proteases), and two phenoloxidases, lipophorin, a secreted gelsolin, and CG15825, which had previously been isolated from clots (2). Proteins whose levels increase after clotting include a ferritin-subunit and two members of the immunoglobulin family with a high similarity to the small immunoglobulin-like molecules involved in mammalian innate immunity. Our results correlate with findings from another study of coagulation (2) that involved a different experimental approach. Proteomics allows the isolation of novel candidate clotting factors, leading to a more complete picture of clotting. In addition, our two-dimensional protein map of cell-free Drosophila hemolymph includes many additional proteins that were not found in studies performed on whole hemolymph.
Transglutaminase 2 induces nuclear factor-kappaB activation via a novel pathway in BV-2 microglia.	Transglutaminase 2 (TGase 2) expression is increased in inflammatory diseases. We demonstrated previously that inhibitors of TGase 2 reduce nitric oxide (NO) generation in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated microglial cell line. However, the precise mechanism by which TGase 2 promotes inflammation remains unclear. We found that TGase 2 activates the transcriptional activator nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and thereby enhances LPS-induced expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase. TGase 2 activates NF-kappaB via a novel pathway. Rather than stimulating phosphorylation and degradation of the inhibitory subunit alpha of NF-kappaB (I-kappaBalpha), TGase2 induces its polymerization. This polymerization results in dissociation of NF-kappaB and its translocation to the nucleus, where it is capable of up-regulating a host of inflammatory genes, including inducible nitric-oxide synthase and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Indeed, TGase inhibitors prevent depletion of monomeric I-kappaBalpha in the cytosol of cells overexpressing TGase 2. In an LPS-induced rat brain injury model, TGase inhibitors significantly reduced TNF-alpha synthesis. The findings are consistent with a model in which LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation is the result of phosphorylation of I-kappaBalpha by I-kappaB kinase as well as I-kappaBalpha polymerization by TGase 2. Safe and stable TGase2 inhibitors may be effective agents in diseases associated with inflammation.
Enzymatic stabilization of gelatin-based scaffolds.	The definitive goal of this research is to develop protein-based scaffolds for use in soft tissue regeneration, particularly in the field of dermal healing. The premise of this investigation was to characterize the mechanical properties of gelatin cross-linked with microbial transglutaminase (mTGase) and to investigate the cytocompatibility of mTGase cross-linked gelatin. Dynamic rheological analysis revealed a significant increase in the storage modulus and thermal stability of gelatin after cross-linking with mTGase. Static, unconfined compression tests showed an increase in Young's modulus of gelatin gels after mTGase cross-linking. A comparable increase in gel strength was observed with 0.03% mTGase and 0.25% glutaraldehyde cross-linked gelatin gels. In vitro studies using 3T3 fibroblasts indicated cytotoxicity at a concentration of 0.05% mTGase after 72 h. However, no significant inhibition of cell proliferation was seen with cells grown on lower concentrations of mTGase cross-linked gelatin substrates. The mechanical improvement and cytocompatibility of mTGase cross-linked gelatin suggests mTGase has potential for use in stabilizing gelatin gels for tissue-engineering applications.
Glutamate-evoked redox state alterations are involved in tissue transglutaminase upregulation in primary astrocyte cultures.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the involvement of oxidative stress in glutamate-evoked transglutaminase (TGase) upregulation in astrocyte cultures (14 DIV). A 24 h exposure to glutamate caused a dose-dependent depletion of glutathione intracellular content and increased the ROS production in cell cultures. These effects were receptor-mediated, as demonstrated by inhibition with GYKI 52466. The pre-incubation with glutathione ethyl ester or cysteamine recovered oxidative status and was effective in significantly reducing glutamate-increased tissue TGase. These data suggest that tissue TGase upregulation may be part of a biochemical response to oxidative stress induced by a prolonged exposure of astrocyte cultures to glutamate.
Prognostic significance of tissue transglutaminase in drug resistant and metastatic breast cancer.	Drug resistance and metastasis pose major impediments in the successful treatment of cancer. We previously reported that multidrug-resistant breast cancer cells exhibit high levels of tissue transglutaminase (TG2; EC 2.3.2.13). Because the drug-resistant and metastatic phenotypes are thought to share some common pathways, we sought to determine whether metastatic breast cancer cells express high levels of TG2.
Chronic ultraviolet radiation modulates epidermal differentiation as it up-regulates transglutaminase 1 and its substrates.	Ultraviolet radiation (UVR) stimulates cellular mitosis, which leads to epidermal hyperplasia. On the basis of hypothesis that chronic UVR may modulate differentiation as well as epidermal hyperplasia, we evaluated the modulation of markers of epidermal differentiation, such as transglutaminase 1 (TGase 1), filaggrin and loricrin, by chronic UVR in vivo.
Temporal-spatial co-localisation of tissue transglutaminase (Tgase2) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) with SBA-positive micro-fibres in the embryonic kidney cortex.	Growth of the kidney is a complex process piloted by the collecting duct (CD) ampullae. The dichotomous arborisation and consecutive elongation of this tubular element determines the exact site and time for the induction of nephrons in the overlaying mesenchymal cap condensates. The mechanism by which the CD ampullae find the correct orientation is currently unknown. Recently, we have demonstrated micro-fibres that originate from the basal aspect of the CD ampullae and extend through the mesenchyme to the organ capsule. The micro-fibres are assumed to be involved in the growth and arborisation process of the CD ampulla. Therefore, we have investigated the specific distribution of the micro-fibres during branching morphogenesis. We have also analysed whether the micro-fibres co-localise with extracellular matrix (ECM)-modulating enzymes and whether the co-localisation pattern changes during CD ampulla arborisation. Micro-fibres were detected in all stages of CD ampulla arborisation. Tissue transglutaminase (Tgase2) co-localised with soybean agglutinin (SBA)-positive micro-fibres, whose presence depended upon the degree of CD branching. Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) also co-localised with micro-fibres, but its expression pattern was different from that for Tgase2. Western blotting experiments demonstrated that Tgase2 and MMP-9 co-migrated with SBA-labelled proteins. Thus, the micro-fibres are developmentally modulated by enzymes of the ECM in embryonic kidney cortex. These findings illustrate the importance of micro-fibres in directing CD ampulla growth.
Human epidermal keratinocytes undergo (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate-dependent differentiation but not apoptosis.	Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) is an important chemopreventive agent derived from green tea. We recently reported that EGCG treatment enhances keratinocyte differentiation as evidenced by increased human involucrin promoter activity [Balasubramanian,S., Efimova,T. and Eckert,R.L. (2002) J. Biol. Chem., 277, 1828-1836]. In the present paper, we extend these findings and show that EGCG also increases the expression of other differentiation markers-procaspase 14 and type I transglutaminase (TG1). Both TG1 mRNA and protein level, and activity are increased by treatment with EGCG. Increased TG1 activity is evidenced by a direct transglutaminase assay, and by the ability of EGCG to stimulate the covalent incorporation of fluorescein cadaverine substrate into crosslinked intracellular structures. In contrast, type II transglutaminase levels are not altered by EGCG treatment. We also assessed whether EGCG promotes keratinocyte apoptosis. We show that EGCG treatment does not promote the cleavage of procaspase-3, -8, -9 or poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Moreover, treatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK, does not reverse the EGCG-associated reduction in cell viability. In addition, there is no increase in cells having sub-G(1)/S DNA content, and no evidence for the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria. These findings confirm, using several endpoints, that EGCG treatment enhances normal keratinocyte differentiation but does not promote apoptosis.
Development of magnetic resonance imaging contrast material for in vivo mapping of tissue transglutaminase activity.	Transglutaminases are a family of enzymes that play an important role in tissue remodeling by catalyzing covalent cross-links between proteins of the extracellular matrix. Elevated activity of transglutaminase was shown at the boundaries of invading tumors, in association with angiogenesis, in stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques, and in generation of blood clots. The aim of this work was to develop a low molecular weight substrate of transglutaminase that could serve for noninvasive magnetic resonance and optical mapping of transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking activity. A 2 kDa contrast material was generated which showed cross-linking by either tissue transglutaminase or factor XIII in the context of multicellular tumor spheroids or fibrin clots, respectively. Successful detection by nuclear magnetic resonance microscopy of transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking of the contrast material to MCF7 multicellular spheroids provides hope that this approach could potentially be developed for clinical demarcation of sites of transglutaminase activity.
Identification, evolution, and regulation of expression of Guinea pig trappin with an unusually long transglutaminase substrate domain.	Trappins are found in human, bovine, hippopotamus, and members of the pig family, but not in rat and mouse. To clarify the evolution of the trappin genes and the functional significance of their products, we isolated the trappin gene in guinea pig, a species belonging to a rodent family distinct from rat and mouse. Guinea pig trappin was confirmed to encode the same domain structure as trappin, consisting of a signal sequence, an extra large transglutaminase substrate domain, and a whey acidic protein motif. Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry as well as immunohistochemistry demonstrated that guinea pig trappin is expressed solely in the secretory epithelium of the seminal vesicle and that its expression is androgen-dependent. We confirmed that guinea pig trappin is cross-linked by prostate transglutaminase and that the whey acidic protein motif derived from guinea pig trappin has an inhibitory activity against leukocyte elastase. Genome sequence analysis showed that guinea pig trappin belongs to the family of REST (rapidly evolving seminal vesicle transcribed) genes.
Enhancement of transglutaminase activity and polyamine depletion in B16-F10 melanoma cells by flavonoids naringenin and hesperitin correlate to reduction of the in vivo metastatic potential.	The in vitro and in vivo effects of two flavonons, naringenin (NG) and hesperitin (HP) on the proliferation rate of highly metastatic murine B16-F10 melanoma cell were investigated. NG or HP treatment of melanoma cells produced a remarkable reduction of cell proliferation, paralleled with both the lowering of the intracellular levels of polyamine, spermidine and spermine and the enhancement of transglutaminase (TGase, EC 2.3.2.13) activity. Orally administered NG or HP in C57BL6/N mice inoculated with B16-F10 cells affected the pulmonary invasion of melanoma cells in an in vivo metastatic assay. The number of lung metastases detected by a computerized image analyzer was reduced, compared to untreated animals, by about 69% in NG-treated mice and by about 36% in HP-treated mice. Survival studies showed that 50% of the NG-treated animals died 38 +/- 3.1 days after tumor cell injection (control group: 18 +/- 1.5 days) and HP-treated mice died 27 +/- 2.3 days after cell inoculation. Taken together, these findings provide further evidences for the potential anticancer properties of dietary flavonoids as chemopreventive agents against malignant melanoma.
Selective labelling of melittin with a fluorescent dansylcadaverine probe using guinea-pig liver transglutaminase.	Melittin, a C-terminal glutamine peptide, incorporated the fluorescent probe monodansylcadaverine (DNC) when catalysed by guinea-pig liver transglutaminase and Ca2+, as determined by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). A 1:1 adduct DNC-melittin was identified in which a single glutamine residue out of two, i.e. Gln25, acts as acyl donor. Incubation of melittin with transglutaminase in the absence of DNC originated high molecular mass complexes indicative that the peptide lysine residue can act as an acyl acceptor. The DNC-melittin was about 3 times more active in the lysis of red cell membranes than native melittin. Fluorescence study of the labelled melittin in the submicromolar range where it is active on cells showed that while totally exposed to solvent in methanol solution, both Trp and dansyl groups are buried in buffer solution. This strongly suggests that DNC-melittin is self-associated and indeed more active than the native melittin in the same conditions.
Rad4TopBP1, a scaffold protein, plays separate roles in DNA damage and replication checkpoints and DNA replication.	Rad4TopBP1, a BRCT domain protein, is required for both DNA replication and checkpoint responses. Little is known about how the multiple roles of Rad4TopBP1 are coordinated in maintaining genome integrity. We show here that Rad4TopBP1 of fission yeast physically interacts with the checkpoint sensor proteins, the replicative DNA polymerases, and a WD-repeat protein, Crb3. We identified four novel mutants to investigate how Rad4TopBP1 could have multiple roles in maintaining genomic integrity. A novel mutation in the third BRCT domain of rad4+TopBP1 abolishes DNA damage checkpoint response, but not DNA replication, replication checkpoint, and cell cycle progression. This mutant protein is able to associate with all three replicative polymerases and checkpoint proteins Rad3ATR-Rad26ATRIP, Hus1, Rad9, and Rad17 but has a compromised association with Crb3. Furthermore, the damaged-induced Rad9 phosphorylation is significantly reduced in this rad4TopBP1 mutant. Genetic and biochemical analyses suggest that Crb3 has a role in the maintenance of DNA damage checkpoint and influences the Rad4TopBP1 damage checkpoint function. Taken together, our data suggest that Rad4TopBP1 provides a scaffold to a large complex containing checkpoint and replication proteins thereby separately enforcing checkpoint responses to DNA damage and replication perturbations during the cell cycle.
Immunoelectrophoretic characterizations of the cross-linking of fibrinogen and fibrin by factor XIIIa and tissue transglutaminase. Identification of a rapid mode of hybrid alpha-/gamma-chain cross-linking that is promoted by the gamma-chain cross-linking.	Cross-linking of human fibrin by fibrin stabilizing factor (factor XIIIa) and tissue transglutaminase (ti-TG) was examined by immunoprobing electrophoregrams for positive identification of the cross-linked chains. The immunoprobing was carried out by a new, direct staining technique employing composite gels of a porous protein immobilizing matrix (glyoxyl agarose) blended with a removable polyacrylamide filler that eliminates need for Western blotting. We find that the known rapid cross-linking of gamma-chains into gamma 2-dyads by XIIIa is accompanied by co-cross-linking of the gamma 2-dyads with alpha-chains to form hybrid alpha gamma 2-triads. Little or no cross-linking of relatively abundant alpha- and gamma-chain monads into hybrid alpha gamma-dydads accompanies formation of the alpha gamma 2-triads. Thus, formation of the gamma 2-dyads accelerates the hybrid cross-linking. This acceleration is viewed as demonstrating a previously unknown mode of cooperative interaction between alpha- and gamma-chains arising from cross-linking of the D-domains of the molecules. This strengthened interaction is not critically dependent on fibrinopeptide-release, because alpha gamma 2-triads are similarly formed when fibrinogen is cross-linked by XIIIa. Also observed in the study with XIIIa was the formation of small amounts of homologous gamma 3 and gamma 4 oligomers which had been predicted by others to contribute to branching of fibrin strands. Unlike XIIIa, ti-TG acts preferentially on alpha-chains rather than gamma-chains as known. As alpha gamma-dyad, not seen in reactions with XIIIa, is produced concurrent with the homologous alpha-chain cross-linking. Also, three different species of alpha 2-dyads were produced by ti-TG, two of which were not seen in reactions with XIIIa. The differences in product formation revealed by the specific staining are viewed as providing criteria for distinguishing products of XIIIa and ti-TG in biologic specimens.
Epidermal transglutaminase in the ichthyoses.	Membrane-bound transglutaminase (TGm) is responsible for the cross-linking of proteins to form the cornified envelope. Since abnormalities have been reported in the envelope in certain ichthyoses, we have carried out a survey of TGm concentrations in scales from these disorders. Surprisingly, a striking and specific increase in enzyme activity was found in patients with non-erythrodermic autosomal recessive lamellar ichthyosis. It is not clear how this increase is related to the underlying recessive mutation.
An A alpha Ser-434 to N-glycosylated Asn substitution in a dysfibrinogen, fibrinogen Caracas II, characterized by impaired fibrin gel formation.	We have identified a unique N-glycosylated Asn substitution for a Ser at position 434 of the A alpha chain of an abnormal fibrinogen designated fibrinogen Caracas II. This dysfibrinogen was characterized by impaired fibrin monomer aggregation. Since there were 4 Thr residues immediately following the mutation, a new Asn-X-Thr/Ser-type consensus sequence, Asn-Thr-Thr arose for N-glycosylation of the Asn. The extra oligosaccharide was found to consist mainly of a disialylated biantennary structure comprising 81.9%, while a neutral and a monosialylated biantennary oligosaccharide represented only 3.6% and 14.5%, respectively. The mutation resides in the carboxyl-terminal region of the A alpha chain, which could fold back to form an extra small globular region located near the central region of the molecule (Erickson, H.P., and Fowler, W.E. (1983) Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 408, 146-163; Weisel, H.P., Stauffacher, C.V., Bullitt, E., and Cohen, C. (1985) Science 230, 3124-3133). Therefore, the participation of this region, referred to as an additional central domain or an alpha domain, in fibrin gel formation is strongly implicated.
Induction of two different modes of cell death, apoptosis and necrosis, in rat liver after a single dose of thioacetamide.	A sequential study of the appearance of liver cell death after thioacetamide (TH) administration was performed in male Wistar rats. Within 3 hours of a single dose of TH, occurrence of cell death by apoptosis was evident around the centrilobular area. Light as well as electron microscopic examination demonstrated the presence of eosinophilic globules, often containing nuclear remnants (apoptotic bodies); they frequently were found within the cytoplasm of intact hepatocytes. The number of apoptotic bodies (ABs) was further enhanced at 6 hours, resulting in a 70-fold increase over the control values. Although necrosis or inflammation could not be observed at this time, as monitored by microscopic analysis as well as by determination of serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase levels, centrilobular necrosis accompanied by massive inflammatory reaction was evident at 12 hours and even more pronounced at 24 to 36 hours. Evidence of liver regeneration was found to occur at 48 hours, and the liver regained its normal architecture between 72 and 96 hours. Studies performed to analyze the activity of 'tissue' transglutaminase (tTG), a presumptive marker of apoptosis, showed that, 1 hour after treatment, TH caused a drastic dose-dependent inhibition of the enzyme activity. This early inhibition was followed by a rapid recovery in tTG activity that paralleled the induction of apoptosis in the liver. Treatment with cycloheximide (CH) 2 hours after TH partially inhibited the incidence of ABs at 6 hours (approximately 30% inhibition). The present study indicates that two different modes of cell death, apoptosis and necrosis, may be induced in a sequential fashion by a single dose of TH.
Intramolecular crosslinking of monomeric fibrinogen by tissue transglutaminase.	In addition to generating polymeric products from human fibrinogen, human erythrocyte transglutaminase (protein-glutamine:amine gamma-glutamyltransferase, EC 2.3.2.13) was shown to catalyze the intramolecular reaction of crosslinking two of the constituent chains within monomeric fibrinogen itself. This internally fused protein derivative contains appreciable amounts of the N epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine bridge peptide and displays the A alpha.gamma hybrid chain pattern of crosslinking, characteristic for the actions of tissue transglutaminases on fibrinogen. Diagnostic analysis in pathological situations, where such enzymes might have escaped from cells into the plasma environment, should include a search for the internally crosslinked soluble fibrinogen monomer.
Localization of cellular transglutaminase on the extracellular matrix after wounding: characteristics of the matrix bound enzyme.	Extending our previous observation that tissue transglutaminase (TGase) binds to extracellular matrix (ECM) fibronectin, we report here that endogenous tissue TGase is localized on the adjacent ECM after puncture wounding embryonic human lung fibroblasts (WI-38). The bound TGase persisted at the wound site for many hours, demonstrated by immunofluorescence and by catalytic activity using an overlay assay. The binding characteristics of TGase with ECM were studied further by the addition of exogenous TGase to cell monolayers and monitoring by immunofluorescence or overlay catalytic activity assays. Binding occurred equally well at 4 degrees C or 37 degrees C. Prior incubation of exogenous TGase with guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP), guanosine 5'-diphosphate (GDP), or adenosine triphosphate (ATP) had little effect on the amount bound to matrix, but prior treatment with calcium, magnesium, strontium, or manganese ions enhanced binding 2- to 3-fold. The Ca(++)-dependent change was a concentration-dependent effect on soluble exogenous TGase, rather than an effect on ECM. Immunofluorescent techniques showed that binding of exogenous TGase to ECM was prevented by prior mixing with fibronectin or collagen, but not with several other ECM components, including laminin, elastin, chondroitin sulfate, heparan sulfate, and hyaluronic acid. ECM-bound TGase was released by 2 M potassium thiocyanate (KSCN) treatment but was not released by treatment with a variety of amino acids, salts, reducing agents, glycerol, or other chaotropic agents.
Phosphorylation of transglutaminase 2 by PKA at Ser216 creates 14-3-3 binding sites.	Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) is a multifunctional ubiquitous enzyme which is present in various cellular compartments and is subject to phosphorylation by PKA. To better understand the relevance of PKA induced phosphorylation of TG2, we performed pull-down assays using phosphorylated biotinylated-TG2(209-223) peptides spanning PKA induced phosphorylation sites as a bait. Subsequent analysis of pull-down protein by SDS-PAGE and LC/MS identified 14-3-3epsilon as the binding partner for TG2 which was further confirmed by immunoblotting with 14-3-3 specific antiserum. In contrast, non-phosphorylated and/or phosphorylation site substituted peptides fail to pull-down 14-3-3. Furthermore, we demonstrate that 14-3-3 co-immunoprecipitated with TG2 antiserum after activation of PKA from mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF)(TG2+/+) cells but not from MEF(TG2-/-) cells. In summary, we provide convincing evidence that phosphorylation of TG2 by PKA creates binding site(s) for 14-3-3 both in vitro and in vivo.
Fluorescence visualization of branchial collagen columns embraced by pillar cells.	A collagen column is a structure of the extracellular matrix that helps to maintain the flatness and width of gill lamella. Collagen columns are unique in that they are enfolded by plasma membrane of pillar cells that form two-dimensional vascular networks between parallel sheets of respiratory epithelia. Despite their unique structure and fundamental importance in the physiology of aquatic animals, little is known about their properties and molecular components, owing to the lack of detection methods. In this study we demonstrated that collagen columns can be visualized by staining with fluorescence-labeled concanavalin A (ConA), a lectin that specifically recognizes the trimannoside core of N-glycosylated proteins and histidine-tagged green fluorescent protein (His(6)-Xpress-GFP), a fluorescent substrate for transglutaminase. We constructed a three-dimensional image of a pillar cell and visualized the spatial relationship between collagen columns and contractile apparatuses within the pillar cell body. This manuscript contains online supplemental material at (www.jhc.org). Please visit this article online to view these materials.
Celiac sprue is primarily a disease of blocked cellular recognition.	A key initial event is proposed for the pathogenesis of celiac sprue. The indigestible fragments generated from gluten are actively transported to the vicinity of sites which are critical for recognition of intestinal basement membrane by enterocytes. The fragments are attached in the vicinity of those sites by transamidation and make the recognition sites unavailable. Enterocytes are lost because they do not recognize that they are in the right place. Proliferation in the crypts of Lieberkhn and immune reactions in the epithelium are normal and appropriate. This hypothesis is shown to be compatible with a variety of observations, some of which are difficult to explain otherwise. Absence of a good animal model is laid to the sensitive site being a human peculiarity. The pattern of damage and the fact of recovery on a gluten-free diet are explained since the immune reactions and tissue remodeling observed are normal responses to tissue damage.
Metabolic and secretory response of parotid cells to cationic amino acids. Uptake and catabolism of L-arginine and L-ornithine.	L-Arginine and L-ornithine, which stimulate amylase release, are taken up by rat parotid cells. L-Arginine is converted, in an NADPH-dependent manner and to a limited extent to L-citrulline in parotid cell homogenates, despite the absence of ornithine transcarbamylase activity. L-Arginine is largely converted to urea and L-ornithine. The generation of putrescine and polyamines from L-ornithine occurs at a very low rate, relative to the cell content in performed amines. The major fate of exogenous or arginine-derived ornithine consists in its conversion to L-glutamate, which is then further metabolized. These findings raise several hypotheses for the secretory response of the parotid cells to cationic amino acids, including their accumulation as positively charged molecules inside the cell and the generation of either NO, amines, substrates for a transglutaminase-catalyzed reaction, or ATP through oxidative catabolism. However, each of these hypotheses meets with objections, the modality for the stimulation of amylase release by cationic amino acids being eventually considered as an unsettled matter.
DNA fragmentation in chronic glomerulonephritis: an immunohistological analysis.	Experimental data suggest that apoptosis plays an important pathophysiological role in glomerulonephritis by restoring tissue structure after proliferation of intrinsic renal cells and infiltration of leukocytes. Relatively little is known of apoptosis in human glomerulonephritis, particularly in predicting renal function during follow-up.
Osteopontin upregulation and polymerization by transglutaminase 2 in calcified arteries of Matrix Gla protein-deficient mice.	Matrix Gla protein (MGP) is a potent inhibitor of soft tissue calcification, and Mgp gene deletion in mice results in arterial calcification. Our aim was to examine osteopontin (OPN) expression and localization, and posttranslational processing of OPN by the crosslinking enzyme transglutaminase 2 (TG2), in the calcified aorta of Mgp-deficient (Mgp(-/-)) mice. Using immunohistochemistry and light and electron microscopy, we report that following mineralization occurring in the arterial media of Mgp(-/-) aortas, OPN is upregulated and accumulates at the surface of the calcified elastic lamellae. Macrophages were observed in direct contact with this OPN-rich layer. Western blot analysis of extracted Mgp(-/-) aortas revealed that the majority of the OPN was in high molecular mass protein complexes, indicating modification by a crosslinking enzyme. Consistent with this observation, TG2 expression and gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysyl crosslink levels were also increased in Mgp(-/-) aortas. In addition to the mineral-inhibiting actions of OPN, and based on data linking OPN and TG2 with cell adhesion in various cell types including monocytes and macrophages, we propose that TG2 interactions with OPN lead to protein polymerization that facilitates macrophage adhesion to the calcified elastic lamellae to promote clearance of the ectopic mineral deposits.
Mapping the interaction of cofilin with subdomain 2 on actin.	Cofilin, a member of the actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin family of proteins, is a key regulator of actin dynamics. Cofilin binds to monomer (G-) and filamentous (F-) actin, severs the filaments, and increases their turnover rate. Electron microscopy studies suggested cofilin interactions with subdomains 2 and 1/3 on adjacent actin protomers in F-actin. To probe for the presence of a cryptic cofilin binding site in subdomain 2 in G-actin, we used transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking, which targets Gln41 in subdomain 2. The cross-linking proceeded with up to 85% efficiency with skeletal alpha-actin and WT yeast actin, yielding a single product corresponding to a 1:1 actin-cofilin complex but was strongly inhibited in Q41C yeast actin (in which Q41 was substituted with cysteine). LC-MS/MS analysis of the proteolytic fragments of this complex mapped the cross-linking to Gln41 on actin and Gly1 on recombinant yeast cofilin. The actin-cofilin (AC) heterodimer was purified on FPLC for analytical ultracentrifugation and electron microscopy analysis. Sedimentation equilibrium and velocity runs revealed oligomers of AC in G-actin buffer. In the presence of excess cofilin, the covalent AC heterodimer bound a second cofilin, forming a 2:1 cofilin/actin complex, as revealed by sedimentation results. Under polymerizing conditions the cross-linked AC formed mostly short filaments, which according to image reconstruction were similar to uncross-linked actin-cofilin filaments. Although a majority of the cross-linking occurs at Gln41, a small fraction of the AC cross-linked complex forms in the Q41C yeast actin mutant. This secondary cross-linking site was sequenced by MALDI-MS/MS as linking Gln360 in actin to Lys98 on cofilin. Overall, these results demonstrate that the region around Gln41 (subdomain 2) is involved in a weak binding of cofilin to G-actin.
Celiac-related properties of chemically and enzymatically modified gluten proteins.	The effects of chemical (acid-heating treatment) and enzymatic (microbial transglutaminase, TGase) modification (deamidation) of gluten proteins on their physicochemical and celiac disease-related properties were studied. Ammonia release, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and sample solubility analyses were employed to check the extent of gluten modification. Among different treatments achieved, the acid-heating treatment performed at 90 degrees C for 3 h induced gluten deamidation, paralleling an increase of gluten solubility without relevant proteolysis. Changes in the immunoreactivity of celiac IgA anti-gliadin antibodies (AGAs) to modified gluten proteins were detected by using a competitive indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method. Chemical deamidation by acid-heating treatment of gluten lowered IgA-AGA immunoreactivity. IgA-AGA immunoreactivity to gliadins was increased when they were submitted to TGase-catalyzed deamidation. The acid-heating treatment of gluten reduced its cytotoxic activity on human colon adenocarcinoma LoVo cell line. These results showed that chemical deamidation of gluten may be envisaged as a way to lower the potential risk for celiac people due to widespread use of gluten as a food additive.
Role of the FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase in the selective formation of N(1),N(8)-bis(gamma-glutamyl)spermidine protein cross-links(1).	Protein-bound gamma-glutamylpolyamines have highlighted a new pathway in polyamine metabolism. Human foreskin keratinocytes offer a suitable model for this study. Indeed, they develop polymerized envelopes, as they differentiate, rich in epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine and N(1),N(8)-bis(gamma-glutamyl)spermidine cross-links. We have found that the selective oxidation of N(1)-(gamma-glutamyl)spermidine and N-(gamma-glutamyl)spermine by FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase (PAO) may be one of the cellular mechanisms regulating the preferential formation of a sterically defined bis(gamma-glutamyl)spermidine cross-link. The significance of this finding is unknown, but it suggests that the target of this PAO-modulation is to achieve the biochemical prerequisite for production of a normal epidermal stratum corneum.
Transcriptional profiling of stress response in cultured porcine islets.	Cell-based diabetes therapy may be achieved through xenotransplantation of adult porcine islets, but tissue quality and immunoreactivity barriers need to be overcome. Early identification and exclusion of irreversibly stressed and dying islets may improve transplant outcomes. We used oligonucleotide microarray and quantitative RT-PCR to identify molecular markers of physiological and immunological stress in porcine islets cultured under stress conditions of elevated glucose (16.7 mM), inflammatory cytokine addition (IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma), or both, for 48 h. Hyperglycemic conditions were associated with increased thioredoxin interacting protein and metabolic process mRNAs, as observed in rodent and primate species. Cytokine treatment increased expression of JAK-STAT pathway components, oxidative stress (transglutaminase 2), and beta cell dysfunction genes. Transglutaminase 2 induction is unique to porcine islets. Biomarkers involved in hyperglycemia and islet inflammation may serve as novel targets for improving and monitoring isolated porcine islet function and viability.
Endothelin-2/vasoactive intestinal contractor via ROCK regulates transglutaminase 1 on differentiation of mouse keratinocytes.	We previously found that endothelin-2/vasoactive intestinal contractor (ET-2/VIC) greatly increased in mouse epidermis after birth. In the present study, we evaluated whether ET-2/VIC expression was associated with the calcium-induced differentiation of cultured mouse keratinocytes. The differentiation induction was revealed by morphological change, cornified envelope (CE) formation, and involucrin and transglutaminase 1 (TG 1) expressions. ET-2/VIC gene expression and peptide production subsequently increased in the induction of the differentiation. We also found that Y-27632, a Rho-associated coiled-coil forming protein serine/threonine kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, suppressed up-regulation of ET-2/VIC gene expression, the induction of morphological change, the CE formation, and TG 1 expression, but not involucrin expression. These results indicate new three findings, (1) ET-2/VIC expression increases and has potential as a differentiation marker, (2) ET-2/VIC expression is mediated by ROCK, and (3) the ROCK regulated TG 1 expression, on the calcium-induced differentiation of mouse keratinocytes.
Upregulation of TGF-beta-induced tissue transglutaminase expression by PI3K-Akt pathway activation in human subconjunctival fibroblasts.	Excessive scarring in subconjunctival tissues after filtering surgery seems to be characterized by aberrant extracellular matrix (ECM) production, and tissue transglutaminase (tTgase) plays an important role in this process. In the present study, the effects of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta2 on the expression of tTgase, its activity in subconjunctival fibroblasts and whether the effects of TGF-beta are mediated by prosurvival signaling pathways were examined.
Differential activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and a related complex in neuronal nuclei.	The extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERKs 1/2) are known to participate in regulating transcription in response to moderate depolarization, such as synaptic stimulation, but how the same active enzyme can differentially regulate distinct transcriptional programs induced with abnormal depolarization (high potassium) is unknown. We hypothesized that ERK1 or 2 accomplishes this differential nuclear response through close association with other proteins in stable complexes. In support of this hypothesis, we have found that immunoreactivity for an apparent high molecular weight complex containing phospho-ERK1 increased in response to synaptic stimulation, but decreased in response to high potassium; p-ERK immunoreactivity at 44/42 kDa increased in both cases. Evidence supporting the conclusion that the band of interest contained ERK1 in a complex, as opposed to it being an unrelated protein crossreacting with antibodies against p-ERK, is that ERK1 (p44 MAPK) and 14-3-3 protein were electroeluted from the 160-kDa band cut from a gel. We also found the nuclear complexes to be exceptionally durable, suggesting a role for the crosslinking enzyme, transglutaminase, in its stabilization. In addition, we found other components of the ERK pathway, including MEK, ERK2, p90RSK, and Elk-1, migrating at higher-than-expected weights in brain nuclei. These results describe a novel stable complex of ERK1 in neuronal nuclei that responds differentially to synaptic and depolarizing stimulation, and thus may be capable of mediating gene transcription in a way distinct from the monomeric protein.
The protective role of uteroglobin through the modulation of tissue transglutaminase in the experimental crescentic glomerulonephritis.	Tissue transglutaminase (tTG) may induce pro-inflammatory cytokines and produce irreversible end-products, thus promoting renal scarring. It has recently been confirmed that the crescent formation in murine experimental crescentic glomerulonephritis (ecGN) has been inhibited by the administration of recombinant uteroglobin (rUG). However, the ability of UG on tTG modulation has not been thoroughly assessed. In this study, we investigated the feasible protective role of UG in murine ecGN through the modulation of tTG and TGF-beta1 expressions. ecGN was induced by the administration of anti-GBM Ab into C57BL/6 mice.
Affinity of microbial transglutaminase to s1-, -, and acid casein under atmospheric and high pressure conditions.	Kinetics for the reaction of microbial transglutaminase (MTG) with individual caseins in a TRIS-acetate buffer at pH 6.0 was evaluated under atmospheric pressure (0.1 MPa) and high pressure (400 MPa) at 40 C. The reaction was monitored under the following limitations: The kinetics from the initial velocities was obtained from nonprogressive enzymatic reactions assuming that the individual catalytic constants of reactive glutamine residues are represented by the reaction between MTG and casein monomers. Enzyme reaction kinetics carried out at 0.1 MPa at 40 C showed Henri-Michaelis-Menten behavior with maximal velocities of 2.7  0.02  10(-3), 0.8  0.01  10(-3), and 1.3  0.30  10(-3) mmol/L  min and K(m) values of 59  2  10(-3), 64  3  10(-3), and 50  2  10(-3) mmol/L for -, (s1)-, and acid casein, respectively. Enzyme reaction kinetics of -casein carried out at 400 MPa and 40 C also showed a Henri-Michaelis-Menten behavior with a similar maximal velocity of 2.5  0.33  10(-3) mmol/L  min, but, comparable to a competitive inhibition, the K(m) value increased to 144  34  10(-3) mmol/L. The reaction of MTG with (s1)-casein under high pressure did not fit in to Henri-Michaelis-Menten kinetics, indicating the complex influence of pressure on protein-enzyme interactions.
Novel role of transglutaminase 1 in corpora amylacea formation?	Corpora amylacea (CA) are both age and neurodegeneration-related spherical bodies, consisting of polymerized proteins, often thought to be involved in sequestration of hazardous products of cellular metabolism in brain. Although CA formation is associated with cellular stress, the process underlying their formation remains obscure. Transglutaminases (TGs) are stress associated enzymes that induce molecular cross-links, leading to polymerization of substrate proteins. TG expression and activity are elevated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), and TG-catalyzed cross-links are present in their lesions. Considering the nature of CA, the aim of this study was to investigate the presence of TGs and TG cross-links in CA of healthy aging brain, AD and PD brain, using immunohistochemistry. We observed TG1 and TG cross-links in CA, together with typical cytoskeletal proteins. Furthermore, the presence of proteins associated with AD or PD pathogenesis was not altered in CA of disease brain compared to controls. We propose that TG1-catalyzed cross-linking and consequent polymerization of cytoskeletal and cytoskeleton-associated proteins may underlie CA formation.
Nonmuscle myosin IIA (myosin heavy polypeptide 9): a novel class of signal transducer mediating the activation of G alpha h/phospholipase C-delta 1 pathway.	The dimeric Gh protein is comprised of alpha (tissue transglutaminase) and beta (Calreticulin) subunits and known to be associated with FSH-, oxytocin-, or epinephrine-receptors/functions in their respective target cells. After establishing the FSH-induced activation of G alpha h/phospholipase C (PLC)-delta 1 pathway in rat Sertoli cells (SCs), we have attempted to identify a possible G alpha h-coupled novel FSH receptor (FSH-R). Remarkably, a protein with approximately 240-kDa molecular mass was coimmunoprecipitated with G alpha h in the fractionated membrane proteins of rat SCs. The protein was identified as myosin heavy polypeptide 9 (MyH9) by mass spectrometric analysis and immunoblotting. In addition, immunoprecipitation analysis reveals that MyH9 is constitutively associated with classical Gs-coupled FSH-R and inactive GDP-bound G alpha h at resting state of rat SCs, but did not interact with FSH directly as judged by Far-Western analysis. Upon the stimulation of higher levels of extracellular FSH (>1000 IU/liter), classical FSH-R induces the phosphorylation of MyH9, the dissociation of active GTP-bound G alpha h from FSH-R:MyH9 complexes, and the elicitation of G alpha h/PLC-delta 1 pathway-dependent Ca(2+)-influx in rat SCs. Furthermore, the specific inhibition of MyH9 ATPase activity with Blebbistatin dose-dependently suppressed FSH-induced G alpha h/PLC-delta 1 signaling and Ca(2+)-influx, but not intracellular cAMP accumulation in rat SCs, implying that MyH9 mediates FSH-induced activation of G alpha h/PLC-delta 1/IP(3)/Ca(2+)-influx pathway in rat SCs. This is the first to demonstrate that the filament protein MyH9 constitutively forms a ternary complex with FSH-R and inactive GDP-bound G alpha h. At higher FSH levels, this ternary complex executes an alternative signaling of classical Gs-coupled FSH-R through activating a Gs/cAMP-independent, G alpha h/PLC-delta 1 pathway in rat SCs.
Keratinocyte differentiation induced by calcium, phorbol ester or interferon-gamma elicits distinct changes in the retinoid signalling pathways.	Retinoids influence keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation via binding to nuclear retinoic acid receptors (RARalpha, -gamma) and retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRalpha). The effect of keratinocyte differentiation on expression of nuclear retinoid receptors and on the conversion of retinol into retinoic acid has not been examined earlier in depth.
Implication of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor induced neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis revealed by proteome analysis.	In rheumatoid arthritis (RA), synovial fluid (SF)contains a large number of neutrophils that contribute to the inflammation and destruction of the joints. The SF also contains granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF),which sustains viability of neutrophils and activates their functions. Using proteomic surveillance, we here tried to elucidate the effects of GM-CSF on neutrophils.
Phospholipase C, Ca2+, and calmodulin signaling are required for 5-HT2A receptor-mediated transamidation of Rac1 by transglutaminase.	Serotonin and especially serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor signaling are important in the etiology and treatment of schizophrenia and affective disorders. We previously reported a novel 5-HT(2A) receptor effector, increased transglutaminase (TGase)-catalyzed transamidation, and activation of the small G protein Rac1 in A1A1v cells, a rat embryonic cortical cell line.
Presence of tissue transglutaminase in granular endoplasmic reticulum is characteristic of melanized neurons in Parkinson's disease brain.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the accumulation of -synuclein aggregates and degeneration of melanized neurons. The tissue transglutaminase (tTG) enzyme catalyzes molecular protein cross-linking. In PD brain, tTG-induced cross-links have been identified in -synuclein monomers, oligomers and -synuclein aggregates. However, whether tTG and -synuclein occur together in PD affected neurons remains to be established. Interestingly, using immunohistochemistry, we observed a granular distribution pattern of tTG, characteristic of melanized neurons in PD brain. Apart from tTG, these granules were also positive for typical endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident chaperones, that is, protein disulphide isomerase, ERp57 and calreticulin, suggesting a direct link to the ER. Additionally, we observed the presence of phosphorylated pancreatic ER kinase (pPERK), a classical ER stress marker, in tTG granule positive neurons in PD brain, although no subcellular colocalization of tTG and pPERK was found. Our data therefore suggest that tTG localization to granular ER compartments is specific for stressed melanized neurons in PD brain. Moreover, as also -synuclein aggregates were observed in tTG granule positive neurons, these results provide a clue to the cellular site of interaction between -synuclein and tTG.
Transglutaminase-mediated oligomerization promotes osteoblast adhesive properties of osteopontin and bone sialoprotein.	Tissue transglutaminase (TG2) is a widely distributed, protein-crosslinking enzyme having a prominent role in cell adhesion as a 1 integrin co-receptor for fibronectin. In bone and teeth, its substrates include the matricellular proteins osteopontin (OPN) and bone sialoprotein (BSP). The aim of this study was to examine effects of TG2-mediated crosslinking and oligomerization of OPN and BSP on osteoblast cell adhesion. We show that surfaces coated with oligomerized OPN and BSP promote MC3T3-E1/C4 osteoblastic cell adhesion significantly better than surfaces coated with the monomeric form of the proteins. Both OPN and BSP oligomer-adherent cells showed more cytoplasmic extensions than those cells grown on the monomer-coated surfaces indicative of increased cell connectivity. Our study suggests a role for TG2 in promoting the cell adhesion function of two matricellular substrate proteins prominent in bone, tooth cementum and certain tumors.
Dietary glucosylceramide enhances cornified envelope formation via transglutaminase expression and involucrin production.	In this study, we investigated whether dietary glucosylceramide (GlcCer) and its metabolite sphingoid bases, sphingosine (SS), phytosphingosine (PS), sphingadienine (SD) and 4-hydroxysphingenine (4HS), influence cornified envelope (CE) formation. CE is formed during terminal differentiation of the epidermis through crosslinking of specific precursor proteins by transglutaminases (TGases), and is essential for the skin's barrier function. Oral administration of GlcCer (0.25 mg/day) for 14 consecutive days dramatically reduced transepidermal water loss, an indicator of the skin barrier condition, in hairless mice with barrier perturbation induced by single-dose ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation. The GlcCer treatment also increased the level of TGase-1 mRNA in UVB-irradiated murine epidermis approximately 1.6-fold compared with the control. Further, all four sphingoid bases at 1 M concentration enhanced CE formation of cultured normal human keratinocyte cells. Among them, SS, PS and SD, but not 4HS, stimulated production of involucrin, one of the CE major precursor proteins. SD increased the expression of TGase-1 mRNA, while SS increased the expression of TGase-3 mRNA. These results indicate that the skin barrier improvement induced by oral GlcCer treatment might be at least partly due to a reinforcement of CE formation in the epidermis mediated by sphingoid bases metabolically derived from GlcCer.
Transglutaminase-mediated synthesis of a DNA-(enzyme)n probe for highly sensitive DNA detection.	A new synthetic strategy for DNA-enzyme conjugates with a novel architecture was explored using a natural cross-linking catalyst, microbial transglutaminase (MTG). A glutamine-donor substrate peptide of MTG was introduced at the 5-position on the pyrimidine of deoxyuridine triphosphate to prepare a DNA strand with multiple glutamine-donor sites by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A substrate peptide that contained an MTG-reactive lysine residue was fused to the N terminus of a thermostable alkaline phoshatase from Pyrococcus furiosus (PfuAP) by genetic engineering. By combining enzymatically the substrate moieties of MTG introduced to the DNA template and the recombinant enzyme, a DNA-(enzyme)(n) conjugate with 1:n stoichiometry was successfully obtained. The enzyme/DNA ratio of the conjugate increased as the benzyloxycarbonyl-L-glutaminylglycine (Z-QG) moiety increased in the DNA template. The potential utility of the new conjugate decorated with signaling enzymes was validated in a dot blot hybridization assay. The DNA-(enzyme)(n) probe could clearly detect 10(4) copies of the target nucleic acid with the complementary sequence under harsh hybridization conditions, thereby enabling a simple detection procedure without cumbersome bound/free processes associated with a conventional hapten-antibody reaction-based DNA-detection system.
Effect of microbial transglutaminase on gel properties and film characteristics of gelatin from lizardfish (Saurida spp.) scales.	The addition of microbial transglutaminase (MTGase) generally increased the gel strength of lizardfish (Saurida spp.) scale gelatin gels (P0.05) with an increase in gel strength with the addition of MTGase up to 0.5% (w/v). The texture profile analysis compression tests of lizardfish scale gelatin gel with and without MTGase were studied to determine their effects on gel characteristics. MTGase added to the gels decreased the band intensity of the - and -components with increasing concentrations of enzyme. Gel microstructures with various concentration of MTGase showed denser strands in the gels with enzyme compared with the looser stands in non-enzyme-treated gel samples. Films cast from lizardfish scale gelatin with and without 0.5% MTGase and bovine gelatin films were transparent and flexible. The lizardfish gelatin films were all slightly yellowish while the bovine gelatin films were clearer. The L value of bovine gelatin films had the highest value (P0.05) whereas lizardfish scale gelatin films with and without enzyme were not significantly different (P>0.05) for L, a, and b values and E. The film's mechanical properties included tensile strength (TS) and elongation at break (E) were not significantly different (P > 0.05) for E and the films of lizardfish scale gelatin showed higher TS than the films without enzyme added (P  0.05). The water vapor permeability of films from lizardfish scale gelatin with and without 0.5% MTGase and bovine gelatin films were 21.0  0.17, 26.3  0.79, and 25.8  0.09 gmm/m(2)dkPa, respectively, while the oxygen transmission rate of all 3 types of films were less than 50 cc O(2)/m(2)d.
Adhesion-GPCRs in the CNS.	There are a total of 33 members of adhesion G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in humans and 30 members in mice and rats. More than half of these receptors are expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), indicating their possible roles in the development and function of the CNS. Indeed, it has been shown that adhesion-GPCRs are involved in the regulation of neurulation, cortical development and neurite growth. Among the few adhesion-GPCRs being studied, GPR56 is so far the only member associated with a human brain malformation called bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (BFPP). The histopathology of BFPP is a cobblestone-like brain malformation characterized by neuronal overmigration through a breached pial basement membrane (BM). Further studies in the Gpr56 knockout mouse model revealed that GPR56 is expressed in radial glial cells and regulates the integrity of the pial BM by binding a putative ligand in the extracellular matrix of the developing brain.
GPR56 interacts with extracellular matrix and regulates cancer progression.	GPR56 is a relatively recent addition to the adhesion-GPCR family. Genetic and biochemical studies uncovered its roles in cancer and development and established its function as an adhesion receptor to mediate the interactions between cells and extracellular matrix. Despite of much progress on understanding its biological implications, the mechanism of its function remains elusive. It has not been firmly established whether GPR56 signals directly through G proteins and what its upstream stimuli and downstream effectors are to execute its various biological effects. This chapter will give an overview of the primary structures of the Gpr56 gene and its encoded protein and attempt to point out open questions in this research area, with an emphasis on its roles in cancer and signal transduction.
Crosslinking food proteins for improved functionality.	Different possibilities for protein crosslinking are examined in this review, with special emphasis on enzymatic crosslinking and its impact on food structure. Among potential enzymes for protein crosslinking are transglutaminase (TG) and various oxidative enzymes. Crosslinking enzymes can be applied in cereal, dairy, meat, and fish processing to improve the texture of the product. Most of the current commercial applications are based on TG. The reaction mechanisms of the crosslinking enzymes differ, which in turn results in different technological properties.
Expression profile of cornified envelope structural proteins and keratinocyte differentiation-regulating proteins during skin barrier repair.	Recent studies have emphasized the importance of heritable and acquired skin barrier abnormalities in common inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis (AD). To date, no comprehensive studies on the effect of experimental barrier disruption on cornified envelope protein expression have been performed.
Expression TGM2 and BNIP3 have prognostic significance in laryngeal cancer patients receiving surgery and postoperative radiotherapy: a retrospective study.	This study was designed to determine the pattern and correlation between expression of the HIF-1 transcriptional targets TGM2 and BNIP3 in laryngeal cancer, and investigate the association of BNIP3 and TGM2 with clinical outcome in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy.
Ataxia-Telangiectasia, Mutated (ATM)/Nuclear Factor  light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NFB) signaling controls basal and DNA damage-induced transglutaminase 2 expression.	Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme that cross-links proteins and its overexpression, linked to a drug resistant phenotype, is commonly observed in cancer cells. Further, up-regulation of TG2 expression occurs during response to various forms of cell stress; however, the molecular mechanisms that drive inducible expression of the TG2 gene (TGM2) require elucidation. Here we show that genotoxic stress induces TG2 expression through the Ataxia-Telangiectasia, Mutated (ATM)/Nuclear Factor  light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NFB) signaling pathway. We further document that NFB is both necessary and sufficient to drive constitutive TG2 expression in cultured cell lines. Additionally, shRNA-mediated knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of the ATM kinase results in reduced constitutive TG2 expression and NFB transcriptional activity. We document that the NFB subunit p65 (RelA) interacts with two independent consensus NFB binding sites within the TGM2 promoter, that mutation of either site or pharmacological inhibition of NFB reduces TGM2 promoter activity, and genotoxic stress drives heightened association of p65 with the TGM2 promoter. Finally, we observed that knockdown of either p65 or ATM in MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells expressing recombinant TG2 partially reduces resistance to doxorubicin, indicating that the drug resistance linked to overexpression of TG2 functions, in part, through p65 and ATM. This work establishes a novel ATM-dependent signaling loop where TG2 and NFB activate each other resulting in sustained activation of NFB and acquisition of a drug-resistant phenotype.
Serotonylated fibronectin is elevated in pulmonary hypertension.	Serotonin (5-HT) and fibronectin (FN) have been associated with pulmonary hypertension (PH). We previously reported that FN is posttranslationally modified by tissue transglutaminase (TGase) to form serotonylated FN (s-FN) in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells and that serotonylation stimulates their proliferation and migration, hallmarks of PH. We hypothesized that s-FN and its binding to TGase are elevated in human and experimental PH. To assess this hypothesis, FN isolation and electrophoretic, immunoblotting, and densitometric techniques were used. Mean ratio of serum s-FN to total FN level (s-FN/FN) was elevated in 19 consecutive pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) patients compared with 25 controls (0.3  0.18 vs. 0.05  0.07, P < 0.001). s-FN/FN also was increased in lungs of mice and rats with hypoxia-induced PH and in rats with monocrotaline-induced PH. In mice, the increase was detected at 1 wk of hypoxia, preceding the development of PH. Hypoxic rats had elevated serum s-FN/FN. Enhanced binding of TGase to its substrate FN occurred in serum from patients with PAH (mean 0.50  0.51 vs. 0.063  0.11, P = 0.002) and s-FN/FN and TGase-bound FN were highly correlated (R(2) = 0.77). TGase-bound FN also was increased in experimental PH. We conclude that increased serotonylation of FN occurs in human and experimental PH and may provide a biomarker for the disease.
Detoxification of gluten by means of enzymatic treatment.	Celiac disease (CD) is an inflammatory disease of the upper small intestine in genetically predisposed individuals caused by glutamine- and proline-rich peptides from cereal storage proteins (gluten) with a minimal length of nine amino acids. Such peptides are insufficiently degraded by gastrointestinal enzymes; they permeate the lymphatic tissue, are bound to celiac-specific, antigen-presenting cells, and stimulate intestinal T-cells. The typical clinical pattern is a flat small intestinal mucosa and malabsorption. Currently, the only therapy is a strict, lifelong gluten-free diet. Recent research has shown that gluten and gluten peptides can be degraded by prolyl endopeptidases from different sources. These peptidases can either be used to produce gluten-free foods from gluten-containing raw materials, or they have been suggested as an oral therapy for CD, in which dietary gluten is hydrolyzed by coingested peptidases already in the stomach, thus preventing CD-specific immune reactions in the small intestine. This would be an alternative for CD patients to the gluten-free diet. Furthermore, microbial transglutaminase could be used to detoxify gluten either by selectively modifying glutamine residues of intact gluten by transamidation with lysine methyl ester or by crosslinking gluten peptides in beverages via isopeptide bonds so that they can be removed by filtration.
Site-specific protein propargylation using tissue transglutaminase.	Transglutaminases (TGases) catalyse the transamidation of glutamine residues with primary amines. Herein we report the first FRET-based activity assay for the direct detection of the ligation (transamidation) reaction mediated by tissue TGase (TG2). This novel assay was then used in a microtiter plate-based screen of a library of 18 potential amine substrates. From this screen it was discovered that propargyl amine serves as an excellent substrate for TG2. Subsequently, propargyl amine and 2-azidoethyl amine were validated independently as TG2 substrates with K(M) values of 44  4 M, and 0.99  0.06 mM, respectively. In a proof-of-principle protein labelling experiment, the protein casein was selectively functionalized with propargyl amine using TG2 and subsequently fluorescently labelled through a dipolar cycloaddition reaction with an azido-fluorescein conjugate. This application demonstrates the strong potential of using TG2 for site-specific protein modification through a combination of enzymatic and bioorthogonal chemistry.
Transglutaminase catalyzed cross-linking of sodium caseinate improves oxidative stability of flaxseed oil emulsion.	Sodium caseinate was modified by transglutaminase catalyzed cross-linking reaction prior to the emulsification process in order to study the effect of cross-linking on the oxidative stability of protein stabilized emulsions. The extent of the cross-linking catalyzed by different dosages of transglutaminase was investigated by following the ammonia production during the reaction and using SDS-PAGE gel. O/W emulsions prepared with the cross-linked and non-cross-linked sodium caseinates were stored for 30 days under the same conditions. Peroxide value measurement, oxygen consumption measurement, and headspace gas chromatography analysis were used to study the oxidative stability of the emulsions. The emulsion made of the cross-linked sodium caseinate showed an improved oxidative stability with reduced formation of fatty acid hydroperoxides and volatiles and a longer period of low rate oxygen consumption. The improving effect of transglutaminase catalyzed cross-linking could be most likely attributed to the enhanced physical stability of the interfacial protein layer against competitive adsorption by oil oxidation products.
Enzymatic characterization of transglutaminase from Streptomyces mobaraensis DSM 40587 in high salt and effect of enzymatic cross-linking of yak milk proteins on functional properties of stirred yogurt.	Streptomyces transglutaminase (TGase) purified from high-salt medium was characterized and applied into yak yogurts. The purified enzyme presented a Michaelis constant of 40.47 mmol and a maximum velocity of 44.44 U/mg of protein for N-carboxybenzoyl-l-glutaminyl-glycine in the hydroxamate procedure. The purified TGase exhibited optimum activity at 55C and pH 6.0. The enzyme was not stable above 50C and was stable within a pH range of 5.0 to 10.0 at 4C for 12h and pH 5.0 to 9.0 at 37C for 30 min. The TGase activity was not affected by Ca(2+), K(+), Ba(2+), or Na(+), but slightly inhibited by Fe(2+), Mg(2+), and Mn(2+), and strongly by Cu(2+) and Zn(2+). To explore yak milk products, it was used to produce yogurt and TGase was used. It was found that TGase-catalyzed cross-linking was effective in improving functional properties of stirred yak yogurt. Treated yogurt produced a strong acid gel, higher consistency, cohesiveness, index of viscosity, and creamier mouth feel than the untreated product. Furthermore, yak yogurt treated with TGase presented lower wet yak hair or sweat odor, or both. Therefore, TGase can be used to pave the way for exploration of novel yak products to overcome the issues of peculiar wet yak hair or sweat odor, or both.
Tissue transglutaminase constitutively activates HIF-1 promoter and nuclear factor-B via a non-canonical pathway.	Constitutive activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) has been linked with carcinogenesis and cancer progression, including metastasis, chemoresistance, and radiation resistance. However, the molecular mechanisms that result in constitutive activation of NF-B are poorly understood. Here we show that chronic expression of the pro-inflammatory protein tissue transglutaminase (TG2) reprograms the transcription regulatory network in epithelial cells via constitutive activation of NF-B. TG2-induced NF-B binds the functional NF-B binding site in hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) promoter and results in its increased expression at transcription and protein levels even under normoxic conditions. TG2/NF-B-induced HIF-1 was deemed essential for increased expression of some transcription repressors, like Zeb1, Zeb2, Snail, and Twist. Unlike tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), TG2 did not require IB kinase (IKK) for NF-B activation. Our data suggest that TG2 binds with IB and results in its rapid degradation via a non-proteasomal pathway. Importantly, the catalytically inactive (C277S) mutant form of TG2 was as effective as was wild-type TG2 in activating NF-B and inducing HIF-1 expression. We also found that TG2 interacted with p65/RelA protein, both in the cytosolic and the nuclear compartment. The TG2/p65(NF-B) complex binds to the HIF-1 promoter and induced its transcriptional regulation. Inhibition of TG2 or p65/RelA also inhibited the HIF-1 expression and attenuated Zeb1, Zeb2, and Twist expression. To our knowledge, these findings show for the first time a direct link between TG2, NF-B, and HIF-1, demonstrating TG2's important role in cancer progression.
Tailing DNA aptamers with a functional protein by two-step enzymatic reaction.	An efficient, quantitative synthetic strategy for aptamer-enzyme conjugates was developed by using a two-step enzymatic reaction. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) was used to first incorporate a Z-Gln-Gly (QG) modified nucleotide which can act as a glutamine donor for a subsequent enzymatic reaction, to the 3'-OH of a DNA aptamer. Microbial transglutaminase (MTG) then catalyzed the cross-linking between the Z-QG modified aptamers and an enzyme tagged with an MTG-reactive lysine containing peptide. The use of a Z-QG modified dideoxynucleotide (Z-QG-ddUTP) or a deoxyuridine triphosphate (Z-QG-dUTP) in the TdT reaction enables the controlled introduction of a single or multiple MTG reactive residues. This leads to the preparation of enzyme-aptamer and (enzyme)n-aptamer conjugates with different detection limits of thrombin, a model analyte, in a sandwich enzyme-linked aptamer assay (ELAA). Since the combination of two enzymatic reactions yields high site-specificity and requires only short peptide substrates, the methodology should be useful for the labeling of DNA/RNA aptamers with proteins. 
RDH10, RALDH2, and CRABP2 are required components of PPAR-directed ATRA synthesis and signaling in human dendritic cells.	All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) has a key role in dendritic cells (DCs) and affects T cell subtype specification and gut homing. However, the identity of the permissive cell types and the required steps of conversion of vitamin A to biologically active ATRA bringing about retinoic acid receptor-regulated signaling remains elusive. Here we present that only a subset of murine and human DCs express the necessary enzymes, including RDH10, RALDH2, and transporter cellular retinoic acid binding protein (CRABP)2, to produce ATRA and efficient signaling. These permissive cell types include CD103(+) DCs, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and interleukin-4-treated bone marrow-derived murine DCs and human monocyte-derived DCs (mo-DCs). Importantly, in addition to RDH10 and RALDH2, CRABP2 also appears to be regulated by the fatty acid-sensing nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) and colocalize in human gut-associated lymphoid tissue DCs. In our model of human mo-DCs, all three proteins (RDH10, RALDH2, and CRABP2) appeared to be required for ATRA production induced by activation of PPAR and therefore form a linear pathway. This now functionally validated PPAR-regulated ATRA producing and signaling axis equips the cells with the capacity to convert precursors to active retinoids in response to receptor-activating fatty acids and is potentially amenable to intervention in diseases involving or affecting mucosal immunity. 
Induction of chondrogenic differentiation in mesenchymal stem cells by TGF-beta cross-linked to collagen-PLLA [poly(L-lactic acid)] scaffold by transglutaminase 2.	Transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking has been employed to optimize the mechanical properties and stability of tissue scaffolds. We have characterized tissue transglutaminase (TG2)-mediated cross-linking as a useful tool to deliver biologically-active TGF to mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and direct their differentiation towards a chondrogenic lineage. TGF-3 is irreversibly cross-linked by TG2 to collagen type II-coated poly(L-lactic acid) nanofibrous scaffolds and activates Smad phosphorylation and Smad-dependent expression of a luciferase reporter. Human bone marrow-derived MSCs cultured on these scaffolds deposit cartilaginous matrix after 14 days of culture at 50 % efficiency compared to chondrogenesis in the presence of soluble TGF-3. These findings are significant because they suggest a novel approach for the programming of MSCs in a spatially controlled manner by immobilizing biologically active TGF-3 via cross-linking to a collagen-coated polymeric scaffold.
Enzymatic antibody modification by bacterial transglutaminase.	Enzymatic posttranslational modification of proteins permits more precise control over conjugation site than chemical modification of reactive amino acid side chains. Ideally, protein modification by an enzyme yields completely homogeneous conjugates with improved properties for research or therapeutic use. As an example, we here provide a protocol for bacterial transglutaminase (BTGase)-mediated conjugation of cadaverine-derivatized substrates to an IgG1, resulting in stable bond formation between glutamine 295 of the antibody heavy chain and the substrate. This procedure requires enzymatic removal of N-linked glycans from the antibody and yields a defined substrate/antibody ratio of 2:1. Alternatively, a mutant aglycosylated IgG1 variant may be generated by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutation introduces an additional glutamine and yields a substrate/antibody ratio of 4:1 after coupling. Finally, we describe an ESI-TOF mass spectrometry-based method to analyze the uniformity of the resulting conjugates. The presented approach allows the facile generation of homogeneous antibody conjugates and can be applied to any IgG1 and a wide range of cadaverine-derivatized substrates. 
Overexpression of transglutaminase 4 and prostate cancer progression: a potential predictor of less favourable outcomes.	Transglutaminase 4 has been shown to enhance various biological properties of prostate cancer cells, e.g., cell-matrix adhesion, invasiveness and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition. The objectives of this study were to investigate the associations between transglutaminase 4 expression and the established features and biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer. Transglutaminase 4 immunostaining was performed on a tissue microarray. The expression of transglutaminase 4 was evaluated by a scoring method based on the intensity and extent of staining. The clinical and pathological information was obtained through a review of medical records. Follow-up data were obtained by consulting the hospital medical records and the prostate cancer database of our department and by contacting patients or family members. We then compared the transglutaminase 4 expression levels between the prostate cancer tissues and the paracarcinoma tissues and evaluated the correlation of transglutaminase 4 expression with the clinical parameters and biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer. Our results indicated that the transglutaminase 4 staining was significantly higher in tumour tissue than in paracarcinoma tissue (P<0.001) and was positively associated with higher Gleason score (P<0.001) and higher prostate-specific antigen level (P=0.005). Patients with transglutaminase 4 overexpression experienced shorter biochemical recurrence-free survival after surgery (P=0.042) in the univariate analysis but not in the multivariate analysis (P=0.139), which indicated that transglutaminase 4 may serve as a potential predictor of biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer.
Chromogranin A is a T cell antigen in human type 1 diabetes.	Chromogranin A (ChgA) is a beta cell secretory granule protein and a peptide of ChgA, WE14, was recently identified as a ligand for diabetogenic CD4 T cell clones derived from the NOD mouse. In this study we compared responses of human CD4 T cells from recent onset type 1 diabetic (T1D) and control subjects to WE14 and to an enzymatically modified version of this peptide. T cell responders to antigens were detected in PBMCs from study subjects by an indirect CD4 ELISPOT assay for IFN-. T1D patients (n=27) were recent onset patients within one year of diagnosis, typed for HLA-DQ8. Controls (n=31) were either 1st degree relatives with no antibodies or from the HLA-matched general population cohort of DAISY/TEDDY. A second cohort of patients (n=11) and control subjects (n=11) was tested at lower peptide concentrations. We found that WE14 is recognized by T cells from diabetic subjects vs. controls in a dose dependent manner. Treatment of WE14 with transglutaminase increased reactivity to the peptide in some patients. This work suggests that ChgA is an important target antigen in human T1D subjects and that post-translational modification may play a role in its reactivity and relationship to disease. 
Inhibition by epidermal growth factor of glucocorticoid-induced epidermal alpha-type keratinization of chick embryonic skin cultured in the presence of delipidized fetal calf serum.	When a 13-day-old chick embryonic tarsometatarsal skin was cultured for 4 days in medium containing hydrocortisone (20 nM) and 5% delipidized fetal calf serum (FCS), epidermal growth factor (EGF, 100 ng/ml) decreased epidermal DNA content 42% and inhibited epidermal DNA synthesis 87%. Tonofilament bundles within the basal and intermediate cells of the EGF-treated epidermis were not as conspicuous as those in the glucocorticoid-induced keratinized epidermis, and the upper region of the EGF-treated epidermis did not form either the filament bundles or the electron-dense amorphous masses seen in the cytoplasm of the glucocorticoid-induced keratinized layer. EGF stimulated degradation of glucocorticoid-induced alpha-keratin. Furthermore, EGF caused a twofold increase in glucocorticoid-induced epidermal transglutaminase activity and in the amount of epidermal glucocorticoid receptor. In the absence of FCS, however, EGF did not inhibit steroid-induced alpha-type keratinization and did not affect either steroid-induced epidermal transglutaminase activity or amount of epidermal glucocorticoid receptor. Hence, the effect of EGF on glucocorticoid-induced epidermal transglutaminase activity was observed only in the presence of delipidized FCS and might be supported by an increase in the amount of glucocorticoid receptor.
Cigarette smoke impairment of human lymphocyte function by inhibition of transglutaminase.	The in-vitro and in-vivo effects of cigarette smoke were studied in human peripheral blood lymphocytes by applying a method for the capping of beta 2-microglobulin- or phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated lymphocyte transformation (measured as (3H)thymidine incorporation) involving the transglutaminase pseudosubstrate monodansylthiacadaverine (MDTC), whose presence resulted in significantly reduced capping and (3H)thymidine incorporation in a concentration-dependent manner. The addition of dimethyl sulphoxide-soluble particles from cigarette smoke to lymphocytes in vitro significantly reduced the capping ability and the PHA-induced (3H)thymidine incorporation. Whereas no significant change in MDTC-dependent capping inhibition was seen in lymphocytes from smokers after 10 d abstinence from smoking. there was a marked decrease in (3H)thymidine incorporation in lymphocytes from smokers after smoking three cigarettes following 10 h abstinence. The tentative conclusion is that exposure to cigarette smoke, or smoke extract, impairs MDTC-dependent capping inhibition and PHA-stimulated lymphocyte transformation by transglutaminase inhibition.
Transglutaminase modification of rhodopsin in retinal rod outer segment disk membranes.	Rhodopsin in rod outer segment disk membranes was enzymatically modified by erythrocyte transglutaminase, which linked small primary amines to glutamine residues. In order to avoid formation of protein crosslinks, rhodopsin was first reductively methylated to modify its lysines. From 1.9 to 2.5 mol of putrescine, ethanolamine, or dinitrophenylcadaverine were incorporated into rhodopsin by transglutaminase during 16 h reaction time. A maximum of 3.5 mol of [14C]putrescine was incorporated per mole of rhodopsin during 48 h. Essentially all of the rhodopsin sequence containing the putrescine could be removed by limited proteolysis of the membranes by thermolysin. Glutamine residues in positions 236, 237, 238, and 344 were modified to approximately equal extents, as determined by isolation of the cyanogen bromide peptides of modified rhodopsin followed by further subdigestion of the peptides. The modified glutamine residues are located in the helix V-VI (or F1-F2) connecting loop and in the carboxyl-terminal region of rhodopsin.
Transglutaminase (TG) involvement in early embryogenesis.	Transglutaminase (TG) has been examined in different stages of preimplantation mouse embryogenesis. The specific activity of this enzyme in the soluble cellular fraction increases 2-fold from 2-cell embryos to 8-cell morulae and 4-fold from 2-cell embryos to blastocyst. The same developmental profile was seen when either N,N'-dimethylcasein or endogenous substrates were used in the TG assay. Using high-speed supernatants from different stage embryos as a source of enzyme and [3H]putrescine as acyl acceptor, the major acyl donor components were tubulin and a high molecular weight (HMW) cross-linkage product, as assessed by electrophoresis and immunoblotting. When either assembled or monomeric cytoskeleton proteins were compared as substrates, microtubules were the best acyl donors. These studies indicate that TG activity is modulated during the changing demands of blastomeres for microtubule cytoskeleton in early embryogenesis.
Generation of drug metabolite antigenicity in the intestinal mucosa.	Both nitroreductase and transglutaminase activities have been assayed in the 10,000 X g supernatant fluids of rat intestine homogenates after Triton X-100 treatment. Incubation of 14C-nitrofurantoin in the intestine extract yielded protein-bound 14C-labeled products. Injection into rabbits of the conjugated protein similarly prepared with unlabeled nitrofurantoin elicited formation of antibodies against nitrofurantoin. These results suggest that intestinal metabolism and conjugation to protein of orally administered drugs may serve as a probable mechanism of drug allergy, and this may be accomplished by enzymatic coupling of relatively stable drug metabolites to protein carriers.
New benzoic acid derivatives with retinoid activity: lack of direct correlation between biological activity and binding to cellular retinoic acid binding protein.	In this paper the biological activity of several newly synthesized benzoic acid derivatives of the Am- and Ch- series, which are structurally different from retinoic acid and arotinoids, was examined. These compounds inhibit squamous cell differentiation of rabbit tracheal epithelial cells in vitro as indicated by the inhibition of transglutaminase Type I and cholesterol 3-sulfate levels. In contrast to the inhibition of differentiation in rabbit tracheal cells, these compounds induce differentiation of mouse embryonal carcinoma F9 and human promyelocytic leukemia HL60 cells. The Am- and Ch- series of compounds also affect several parameters of cell proliferation. These agents are very potent inhibitors of growth of melanoma S91 cells and inhibit the induction of ornithine decarboxylase activity by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in 3T6 fibroblasts. These results show that the Am- and Ch- derivatives elicit in several cell systems the same cellular responses as retinoic acid. We propose, therefore, that they exhibit mechanism(s) of action similar to those of retinoids. Comparison of the biological response with the binding capacity to the cellular retinoic acid-binding protein shows a lack of a direct correlation.
Acceptor-donor relationships in the transglutaminase-mediated cross-linking of lens beta-crystallin subunits.	Following the isolation of the N epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine-containing polymers from human cataracts, our efforts were directed to induce such cross-links experimentally in rabbit lens, and evidence was obtained for the selective reactivities of certain beta-crystallin subunits in this transglutaminase-catalyzed event. In the present work, we examined the enzymatic cross-linking of purified crystallins individually (alpha, beta H, beta L, and gamma) and in combinations, with particular emphasis on forming the approximately 55K dimer. This species was the primary product in the cross-linking of beta H-crystallins; beta L also reacted with transglutaminase. Neither alpha- nor gamma-crystallins formed appreciable amounts of cross-linked structures with transglutaminase. Dansylcadaverine, known to compete against the reactive lysines of proteins in forming N epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine cross-bridges, was shown to inhibit the generation of dimeric and higher ordered oligomers from beta H and beta L. The fluorescent amine specifically labeled only two subunits in beta H (approximately 29-30K and approximately 26K) and one in beta L (approximately 26K), identifying these substrates as possessing transglutaminase-reactive endo-gamma-glutaminyl residues. An antiserum to bovine beta Bp recognized the approximately 23K subunit of rabbit beta-crystallins and also the approximately 55K dimer, suggesting that the approximately 23K protein participates as a lysine donor in generating the cross-linked dimer with transglutaminase. Inasmuch as the same antiserum reacts with an approximately 50K material reported to appear in increasing amounts with age in human lens, the results lend added support to the physiological significance of transglutaminase in the aging of lens.
Formation of rat copulatory plug: purified seminal vesicle secretory proteins serve as transglutaminase substrates.	An in vitro system has been used to study the role of purified rat seminal vesicle proteins in the formation of the copulatory vaginal plug. Proteins II, IV (or S) and V (or F) were each separately coagulated using the transglutaminase in coagulating gland extracts. In each case the coagulum required Ca2+ ions for its formation and was insoluble in denaturing solvents. In experiments with [3H]lysine, proteins II and S incorporated [3H]lysine into glu-lys dipeptide with similar kinetics. Both the N-terminal and C-terminal glutamine residues of protein S participated in the reaction.
Induction and activation of tissue transglutaminase during programmed cell death.	During the involution of lead nitrate-induced hyperplasia in rat liver a significant increase of transglutaminase activity, enzyme concentration, transglutaminase messenger RNA and protein-bound epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine (product of transglutaminase action) coincided with programmed death (apoptosis) of hepatocytes. Immunohistochemical examination showed the appearance of transglutaminase in apoptotic hepatocytes. An increased transglutaminase level was also detected during glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of rat thymocytes.
Cellular transglutaminase has affinity for extracellular matrix.	Cellular transglutaminase (TGase) was demonstrated as an intracellular enzyme by immunofluorescence in WI-38 cells. Following cell membrane perturbation by Triton X-100 treatment, TGase was bound to the extracellular matrix and was found to coexist with fibronectin as visualized by immunofluorescence microscopy. The binding of TGase to the cell matrix was blocked by anti-fibronectin antibody. Exogenous sources of soluble TGase were transferred to the extracellular matrix of an untreated or methanol fixed cell. The experimental data indicated that "particulate bound" TGase is a consequence of soluble TGase binding to the extracellular matrix following cell rupture.
Expression of the cytosolic and particulate forms of transglutaminase during chemically induced rat liver carcinogenesis.	Transglutaminase (EC 2.3.2.13) activity in chemically induced rat hepatocellular carcinomas was reduced by some 65% when compared to normal rat livers. The majority of the remaining activity (approx. 85%) was found in the particulate fraction. The use of non-ionic detergent to extract the transglutaminase activity present in both normal and tumour tissue followed by its separation on a Mono-Q column revealed two distinct peaks of activity. These peaks of activity were equivalent to those previously identified as a membrane-bound transglutaminase and the more characteristic cytosolic or tissue transglutaminase. The ratio of the activity of the cytosolic enzyme to that of the membrane-bound enzyme in normal liver was calculated as 5:1. In hepatocellular carcinomas, this ratio was reduced to 0.4:1. No significant change in the activity of the membrane-bound enzyme was detectable in tumour tissue. Comparison of the cytosolic enzyme found in hepatocellular carcinomas with that found in normal liver indicated no change in its molecular weight, Km,app for putrescine incorporation into N,N'-dimethylcasein and sensitivity to activation by Ca2+. These observations suggest that the reduction in transglutaminase activity observed in the hepatocellular carcinoma is due to a selective reduction in the expression of the cytosolic transglutaminase.
High-resolution structural studies of the factor XIIIa crosslinking site and the first type 1 module of fibronectin.	The N-terminal domain of fibronectin undergoes factor XIIIa-catalysed crosslinking to fibrin, bacteria and collagen. The reactive glutamine residue is in an extended, random coil 'tail' of about 18 residues that would be accessible for crosslinking.
Biochemical, structural, and transglutaminase substrate properties of human loricrin, the major epidermal cornified cell envelope protein.	Loricrin is the major protein of the cornified cell envelope of terminally differentiated epidermal keratinocytes which functions as a physical barrier. In order to understand its properties and role in cornified cell envelope, we have expressed human loricrin from a full-length cDNA clone in bacteria and purified it to homogeneity. We have also isolated loricrin from newborn mouse epidermis. By circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy, the in vivo mouse and bacterially expressed human loricrins possess no alpha or beta structure but have some organized structure in solution associated with their multiple tyrosines and can be reversibly denatured by either guanidine hydrochloride or temperature. The transglutaminase (TGase) 1, 2, and 3 enzymes expressed during epidermal differentiation utilized loricrin in vitro as a complete substrate, but the types of cross-linking were different. The TGase 3 reaction favored certain lysines and glutamines by forming mostly intrachain cross-links, whereas TGase 1 formed mostly large oligomeric complexes by interchain cross-links involving different lysines and glutamines. Together, the glutamines and lysines used in vitro are almost identical to those seen in vivo. The data support a hypothesis for the essential and complementary roles of both TGase 1 and TGase 3 in cross-linking of loricrin in vivo. Failure to cross-link loricrin by TGase 1 may explain the phenotype of lamellar ichthyosis, a disease caused by mutations in the TGase 1 gene.
Biological activities of CNBr fragments of a major protein secreted from the rat seminal vesicle epithelium.	Two fragments of SV-IV, one of the major proteins secreted from the rat seminal vesicle epithelium, were produced in vitro by protein cleavage with CNBr at level of the single methionine residue (Met-70) occurring in its polypeptide chain. After their purification by reversed-phase chromatography, SV-IV/A (1-70 fragment) and SV-IV/B (71-90 fragment) were assayed as transglutaminase substrates, and their anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic and immunosuppressive properties were evaluated in comparison with native SV-IV. Both fragments retained the SV-IV ability to act as transglutaminase substrates in vitro; fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry analyses of the reaction products pointed to Gln-9 and Gln-86 as acyl donor sites, and to Lys-59, -79 and -80 as acyl acceptor sites. In contrast, only SV-IV/A was shown to possess, like SV-IV, the property of inhibiting both the intensity of the carrageenin-induced rat foot edema and the platelet aggregation induced in vivo by different agents. Finally, the two protein fragments were found to be completely unable to inhibit both the mitogen-induced proliferation of human T cells and the mixed lymphocyte reaction.
Epithelioid cell histiocytoma. A report of 10 cases including a new cellular variant.	Epithelioid cell histiocytoma is a recently recognized lesion that is considered to be a variant of cutaneous fibrous histiocytoma (dermatofibroma). Ten cases are presented, including their light microscopic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features. Eight of the cases are similar to those previously reported, presenting as elevated nodules arising on the extremities and composed of epithelioid histiocytes with overlying epidermal effacement. Two of the cases were composed of cells with the same morphologic and immunohistochemical characteristics as typical epithelioid cell histiocytoma, including factor XIIIa positivity, but these arose in the reticular dermis and exhibited prominent cellularity.
Evidence that phospholipase delta1 is the effector in the Gh (transglutaminase II)-mediated signaling.	A new class of GTP-binding protein transglutaminase II (Gh) couples to a 69-kDa phospholipase C (PLC). An 8-amino acid region (Leu665-Lys672) of the alpha-subunit of Gh (Galphah) is involved in interaction and activation of PLC, an observation that has now been used to characterize the 69-kDa PLC further. A 20-amino acid peptide corresponding to Leu654-Leu673 of Galphah was used to prepare an affinity resin. On incubation with a partially purified PLC preparation from rat liver membranes, the affinity resin-bound approximately69- and 85-kDa proteins were recognized by an antibody to the 69-kDa PLC. Both purified 69-kDa PLC and PLC-delta1 bound to the affinity resin; moreover, antibodies to PLC-delta1 recognized the 69-kDa PLC, and antibodies to the 69-kDa PLC recognized PLC-delta1. A synthetic peptide corresponding to Leu661-Lys672 of Galphah inhibited the binding of PLC-delta1 to the affinity resin and also stimulated PLC-delta1. Reconstitution of PLC-delta1 with GTPgammaS (guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate)-activated Gh resulted in activation of PLC-delta1. Antibodies to Galphah also coimmunoprecipitated PLC-delta1 upon activation of Gh. These findings indicate that PLC-delta1 is the effector of Gh-mediated signaling.
Type II transglutaminase expression in rabbit articular chondrocytes in culture: relation with cell differentiation, cell growth, cell adhesion and cell apoptosis.	Depending on the cell type studied, the involvement of type II transglutaminase (TGase) has been proposed in almost any event of the cell life such as differentiation, apoptosis, growth, aging, cell morphology and adhesion, metastatic capacity or extracellular matrix stabilization. In order to define the field(s) where this enzyme may be implicated in chondrocytes, type II TGase expression was studied in chondrocytes at different passages which differentiated state was modulated by retinoic acid, dihydrocytochalasin B or staurosporin. Results showed that (i) type II TGase expression is not incompatible with type II collagen expression, a main marker of chondrocyte differentiation (ii) type II TGase expression is higher when cells are in the exponential phase of growth than when growth arrested (iii) a high type II TGase expression does not imply that cells are apoptotic although cell apoptosis correlates with increased type II TGase expression (iv) non-adherent cells do not express type II TGase whereas adherent cells do whatever their differentiation state as assessed by type II collagen synthesis. These results suggest that, in articular chondrocytes, type II TGase is specifically implicated in the cell adhesion capacity.
Evidence that filaggrin is a component of cornified cell envelopes in human plantar epidermis.	Cornified cell envelope (CE) is generated during the late stages of epidermal differentiation and is made up of proteins covalently linked together by transglutaminases. To determine whether filaggrin is a component of this structure in humans, we analysed highly purified CE from plantar stratum corneum. An immunoelectron microscopy analysis showed specific binding of four different anti-(pro)filaggrin monoclonal antibodies to the surface of the CE, proved previously to be free of non-covalently linked proteins. Moreover, the anti-filaggrin activity of one of the antibodies was absorbed by preincubation with the plantar CE, as determined by ELISA. Convincingly, fragments of CE produced by proteolytic digestion of the structures were stained by this antibody on immunoblots. These data provide direct evidence that filaggrin is a component of CE purified from human plantar stratum corneum. Cross-linking between CE and the filaggrin-containing fibrous matrix may enhance the structural cohesion of the corneocytes and thus the resistance of the stratum corneum.
Monoclonal antibody directed to a fibrinogen A alpha #529-539 epitope inhibits alpha-chain crosslinking by transglutaminases.	A monoclonal antibody (5A2) recognizing a segment near the C-terminus of the fibrin(ogen) A alpha-chain (A alpha #529-539) was found to inhibit alpha-chain crosslinking catalyzed by coagulation factor XIIIa and by tissue-transglutaminase. The rapid gamma-chain cross-linking by factor XIIIa was not affected by the antibody. Results obtained from direct binding and competitive immunoassay established that the antigenic determinant recognized by 5A2 was included within the CNBr fragment referred to as CNBr X (A alpha #518-584), and that it survived trypsin digestion but was destroyed by treatment with Staph V-8 protease or chymotrypsin. Reverse-phase (C-18) high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was employed to obtain a CNBr X tryptic fingerprint, which was subsequently characterized by compositional and NH2-terminal analysis. Assay of the HPLC column effluent revealed a single peak of 5A2 immunoreactivity that coincided with elution of the eleven-residue tryptic peptide, A alpha #529-539. When this isolated peptide and its parent CNBr fragment were employed as solution phase competitors in the 5A2 immunoassay, the relative cross-reactivities (18.3%, peptide: fragment) indicated that a significant proportion of the 5A2 epitope was preserved within the small peptide. This is a region that is released from fibrinogen early in its degradation by plasmin. Thus, the antibody can be used as a probe for intact fibrin(ogen) and C-terminal (A) alpha-chain fragments, in addition to assessing roles of the A alpha-chain C-terminus in cross-linking.
Two distinct classes of rat intestinal mucosal enzymes incorporating putrescine into protein.	Tissue-transglutaminase (t-TGase) is a family of calcium-dependent enzymes. A Ca2+-independent soluble enzyme, in addition to t-TGase, capable of incorporating polyamines into proteins was demonstrated in rat intestinal mucosa. The Ca2+-independent enzyme was stimulated 2- to 5-fold by Fe2+ and Co2+ ions but inhibited by Cu2+ and Zn2+ ions. The Ca2+-stimulated t-TGase activity was inhibited by divalent ions in the following order: Zn2+, Fe2+ >Co2+ > Cu2+. The opposite effects of EGTA, Fe2+ and Co2+ on these two enzyme activities indicate that they are two distinct classes of enzymes. Competition studies demonstrated differential preferences of the two enzymes for substrates. The Ca2+-dependent enzyme preferred putrescine, monodansylcadaverine > cadaverine, spermidine, spermine > 1,10-diaminodecane > triethylbutylamine. On the other hand, the Ca2+-independent enzyme preferred putrescine > cadaverine > spermine, I,10-diaminodecane > spermidine > monodansylcadaverine > triethylbutylamine. Further studies with divalent ions excluded the possible association of this novel Ca2+-independent enzyme with diamine oxidase. Finally, the Ca2+-independent enzyme had a higher affinity for putrescine (Km = 0.02 mM) than did Ca2+-dependent t-TGase (0.2 mM). As judged by gel filtration on HiPrep Sephacryl 200 column, the Ca2+-independent enzyme had a molecular weight of approximately 48 kDa, the intestinal Ca2+-dependent t-TGase was about 188 kDa while that of testicular t-TGase was about 96 kDa. In conclusion, the Ca2+-independent enzyme is stimulated by cobalt or ferric ions, and selectively incorporates aliphatic diamines or polyamines with symmetric amino groups. The observed Ca2+-independent enzyme activity is not related to diamine oxidase or its products. With a 10 times greater affinity for putrescine, the calcium-independent, 48-kDa intestinal enzyme may mediate polyamine function better than calcium dependent, 188-kDa intestinal tissue transglutaminase in the intestinal mucosa.
The Val34Leu polymorphism in the A subunit of coagulation factor XIII contributes to the large normal range in activity and demonstrates that the activation peptide plays a role in catalytic activity.	There is a wide normal range of coagulation factor XIII activity that has never been adequately explained. A polymorphism substituting leucine for valine at position 34 in the activation peptide of the A subunit of factor XIII has recently been discovered in nondeficient individuals, and the present studies indicate that the leucine substitution results in a significant increase in transglutaminase activity. The frequency of the Leu34 allele in the Australian Caucasian population is 0.27, which is high enough to suggest that the inheritance of either the Val34 or Leu34 alleles may contribute to the wide normal range of activity. Although there has been structural evidence indicating that the activation peptide does not dissociate from the enzyme after thrombin cleavage, the discovery of elevated activity resulting from the Leu34 substitution is the first direct evidence that the activation peptide plays a continuing role in the function of factor XIII.
Cholecalciferol induces prostaglandin E2 biosynthesis and transglutaminase activity in human keratinocytes.	In this study, we examined the effects of cholecalciferol, a primary keratinocyte metabolite and precursor of the hydroxylated form of vitamin D3, 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1alpha,25(OH)2D3], on prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in human keratinocytes by examining its respective effects on cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) expression, the rate-limiting enzymes regulating PGE2 biosynthesis and differentiation of keratinocytes. Cholecalciferol induced PGE2 production, whereas 1alpha,25(OH)2D3 had no effect on PGE2 production both in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and in the immortalized human keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT. In HaCaT cells, neither COX-1 mRNA nor protein was detectable without stimulation and COX-1 expression did not increase in response to cholecalciferol treatment. Although cPLA2 mRNA and protein were constitutively expressed in untreated HaCaT cells, expression levels did not increase in response to cholecalciferol treatment; however, unlike COX-1 and cPLA2 expression, COX-2 mRNA and COX-2 protein expression increased in response to cholecalciferol treatment. Calphostin C, a potent protein kinase C inhibitor, significantly reduced cholecalciferol-induced PGE2 production by inhibiting cholecalciferol-enhanced COX-2 mRNA and protein expression. These results indicate that (i) 1alpha,25(OH)2D3 does not induce PGE2 biosynthesis in keratinocytes, (ii) cholecalciferol-induced PGE2 production is primarily COX-2 dependent, and (iii) cholecalciferol enhances both COX-2 mRNA and protein expression, via a protein kinase C-dependent mechanism in human keratinocytes. Furthermore, cholecalciferol increased total cellular transglutaminase activity dose dependently, suggesting a potential role for cholecalciferol in regulating the differentiation of human keratinocytes.
Human procarboxypeptidase U, or thrombin-activable fibrinolysis inhibitor, is a substrate for transglutaminases. Evidence for transglutaminase-catalyzed cross-linking to fibrin.	Procarboxypeptidase U (EC 3.4.17.20) (pro-CpU), also known as plasma procarboxypeptidase B and thrombin-activable fibrinolysis inhibitor, is a human plasma protein that has been implicated in the regulation of fibrinolysis. In this study, we show that pro-CpU serves as a substrate for transglutaminases. Both factor XIIIa and tissue transglutaminase catalyzed the polymerization of pro-CpU and the cross-linking to fibrin as well as the incorporation of 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulfonyl cadaverine (dansylcadaverine), [14C]putrescine, and dansyl-PGGQQIV. These findings show that pro-CpU contains both amine acceptor (Gln) and amine donor (Lys) residues. The amine acceptor residues were identified as Gln2, Gln5, and Gln292, suggesting that both the activation peptide and the mature enzyme participate in the cross-linking reaction. These observations imply that transglutaminases may mediate covalent binding of pro-CpU to other proteins and cell surfaces in vivo. In particular, factor XIIIa may cross-link pro-CpU to fibrin during the latter part of the coagulation cascade, thereby helping protect the newly formed fibrin clot from premature plasmin degradation. Moreover, the cross-linking may facilitate the activation of pro-CpU, stabilize the enzymatic activity, and protect the active enzyme from further degradation.
Assembly in vitro of vitelline envelope components induced by a cortical alveolus sialoglycoprotein of eggs of the fish Tribolodon hakonensis.	Assembly in vitro of vitelline envelope (VE) components, which were precipitated by 50-70% saturated ammonium sulphate from VE extracts, was induced by the action of a sialoglycoprotein that is immunohistochemically localised in cortical alveoli of fish eggs and has serine proteinase activity. The VE components consisted of major bands of molecular mass about 150-120, 110-100, 70 and 27 kDa in addition to about 20 minor bands and contained a chorionic transglutaminase, visualised as two fluorescent bands by monodansylcadaverine staining. The VE component assembly in vitro was Ca(2+)-dependent, not induced if the sialoglycoprotein was pretreated with a serine proteinase inhibitor, and inhibited by the presence of p-chloromercuribenzoate, iodoacetamide or L-cysteine in the reaction medium system. Electron microscopy revealed that assembly in vitro of the VE components consisted of aggregates of network sheets, consisting of branching and anastomosing thin (approximately 27-52 nm) and thick (approximately 137-376 nm) filamentous substances. Separation by SDS-PAGE showed that a considerable number of VE components participated in the assembly in vitro in various amounts. These results suggest at least partial reproduction of the phenomena that occur in the process of fertilisation envelope (FE) formation, and provide a new approach to investigation of the process of FE assembly in vitro.
Alterations in cholesterol sulfate and its biosynthetic enzyme during multistage carcinogenesis in mouse skin.	Recent evidence suggests that cholesterol sulfate may be an important second messenger involved in signaling epidermal differentiation in skin. The activity of cholesterol sulfotransferase (Ch-ST) is increased during squamous differentiation of keratinocytes and is believed to be a marker enzyme for terminal differentiation. The primary objective of this study was to examine changes in levels of cholesterol sulfate (CS) and activity of its biosynthetic enzyme, Ch-ST, during multistage carcinogenesis in mouse skin. Using SENCAR mice, we determined the activity of Ch-ST in normal epidermis, in tumor promoter-treated epidermis, in epidermis during wound healing, and in mouse skin tumors generated by initiation-promotion regimens. A single topical application of tumor promoters led to significantly elevated levels of Ch-ST activity and of CS. Epidermal Ch-ST activity was also elevated during wound healing. Dramatic increases in CS levels and in the activity of Ch-ST were found in nearly all of the papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas examined. The increased levels of CS and activity of Ch-ST in tumor promoter-treated epidermis were accompanied by increased transglutaminase-I activity. In contrast, transglutaminase I activity was not elevated in primary papillomas or squamous cell carcinomas. Finally, Ch-ST activity was significantly elevated in the epidermis of newborn HK1.ras transgenic mice, whereas transglutaminase I activity did not correlate with Ch-ST activity in these mice. These results demonstrate that diverse tumor-promoting stimuli all produce elevated CS levels and Ch-ST activity and that CS levels and Ch-ST activity were constitutively elevated in both papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas. The data also suggest a mechanism for upregulation of Ch-ST in skin tumors involving activation/upregulation of Ha-ras.
A new member of alpha 1-adrenoceptor-coupled G alpha h (transglutaminase II) family in pig heart: purification and characterization.	We previously reported an identification of a 77-kDa GTP-binding protein that co-purified with the alpha 1-adrenoceptor following ternary complex formation. In the present paper, we report on the purification and characterization of this GTP-binding protein (termed G alpha h5) isolated from pig heart membranes. After solubilization of pig heart membranes with NaCl, G alpha h5 was purified by sequential chromatographies using DEAE-Cellulose, Q-Sepharose, and GTP-agarose columns. The protein displayed high-affinity GTP gamma S binding which is Mg(2+)-dependent and saturable. The relative order of affinity of nucleotide binding by G alpha h5 was GTP > GDP > ITP >> ATP > or = adenyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate, which was similar to that observed for other heterotrimeric G-proteins involved in receptor signaling. Moreover, the G alpha h5 demonstrated transglutaminase (TGase) activity that was blocked either by EGTA or GTP gamma S. In support of these observations, the G alpha h5 was recognized by a specific antibody to G alpha h7 or TGase II, indicating a homology with G alpha h (TGase II) family. These results demonstrate that 77-kDa G alpha h5 from pig heart is an alpha 1-adrenoceptor-coupled G alpha h (TGase II) family which has species-specificity in molecular mass.
