Thoracic trauma]	Approximately 30% of trauma cases include significant chest trauma as a component. The vast majority of chest trauma is related to motor vehicle accidents. A key of management of patients with blunt thoracic trauma is a high index of suspicion for thoracic injury, in particular aortic injury. This is based on history, including knowledge of the type and force of injury, and clinical examination. The majority of such injuries may be diagnosed with relatively simple tests such as chest radiographs. Transesophageal echocardiography and CT scan are becoming the corner-stone of evaluation of severe chest trauma patients.
Damage control laparotomy for haemorragic abdominal trauma. A retrospective multicentric study about 109 cases]	Damage control laparotomy is a new approach to the more severe abdominal traumas. It stems from a better understanding of the physiopathology of the haemorragic shock.
Priority-oriented shock trauma room management with the integration of multiple-view spiral computed tomography]	In major trauma it is essential to immediately recognize and treat life-threatening problems and conditions. Most trauma protocols reserve the use of computed tomography for the secondary survey, as patients cannot be attended to during the examination and must be transferred from the emergency room to the CT suite. The relevant reduction in the scanning time of multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) or multislice computed tomography (MSCT) justifies its use as the major diagnostic adjunct for primary trauma survey and initial resuscitation. According to our ATLS((R))-based trauma algorithm, the multidetector scanner situated in the emergency department is utilized immediately after the correction of respiratory problems to detect causes of bleeding or intracranial hematomas. In a prospective series a total of 125 consecutive major trauma patients were evaluated. After focused sonography in trauma (FAST) and plain chest films in intubated patients, whole body MDCT was performed. By retrieving data from our trauma registry and a picture archiving and communication system (PACS), time from trauma room admission to the end of head CT scan for the entire MDCT study and calculation of multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) was analyzed. Additionally, relevant complications such as untreated tension pneumothorax or circulatory arrest during MDCT examination were recorded. The time from admission to the trauma room until completion of head CT scan without contrast was 21:12 min (median, IQR 18:13-27:52). The entire contrast-enhanced MDCT study, including pilot scan and contrast application, required 6:08 min (median, IQR 4:33-8:14) with a total scanning time of 0:59 min (median, IQR 0:55-1:03). MPR calculation of the spine and bony pelvis was performed in 11:37 min (median, IQR 8:03-16:41). A relevant life-threatening complication due to CT scanning during primary trauma survey was not observed in the 125 cases (0/125 CI 95% 0%-3%). Complete diagnostic imaging can be performed within 30 min after trauma room admission by using MDCT. During the primary survey, treatment of the patient is interrupted just for the few minutes of the CT scan and contrast application. An adequate survey of injuries can be achieved earlier and a targeted therapy can be initiated ahead of time. Integration of MDCT scanners in the primary trauma survey provides a high standard of imaging in a very short time without endangering the patient. When dealing with multiple casualties, MDCT could be used also as an accurate and time-efficient means of hospital triage to diagnose and prioritize patients and to plan further surgical interventions and intensive care.
Computed tomography in traumatology with special regard to the advances of three-dimensional display.	There is a variety of methods to aid in the diagnosis of fractures requiring operative treatment. A computer program that produces pseudo-three-dimensional (3D) images from sets of axial computed tomograms is used for examining fractures in areas of complex skeletal anatomy. The resulting reconstructions, representing the surface in a form similar to that of anatomic preparations, can facilitate the process of diagnosis. They are also valuable for planning operations. The 3D information can be used to define the size, shape, and location of the various fracture types. We have used the technique in more than 500 patients with injuries to the skull, spine, acetabulum, sternoclavicular joint, shoulder, knee, and calcaneus and are able to demonstrate the benefit of special investigation protocols.
The U.S. Navy's forward resuscitative surgery system during Operation Iraqi Freedom.	The forward resuscitative surgery system (FRSS) is the Navy's most forward-deployed echelon II medical unit. Between March and August 2003, six FRSS teams were deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF). During the combat phase of OIF (March 21 to May 1, 2003), a total of 34 Marine Corps and 62 Iraqi patients underwent treatment at a FRSS. FRSS teams were assigned two distinct missions; "forward" FRSS teams operated with combat service support elements in direct support of regimental combat teams, and "jump" FRSS teams served as a forward element of a surgical company. This article presents the experiences of the FRSS teams in OIF, including a discussion of time to presentation from wounding, time to operation, time to evacuation, and lessons learned from the deployment of the FRSS.
From the trauma surgeon's viewpoint: multiple injuries--which cavity to open first?	Trauma patients with multiple complex problems pose critical management challenges. Clinical decisions are rarely straightforward. One of the biggest challenges in the care of the severely injured patient is how to deal with the issue of competing injuries; the process involved in the decision of what the trauma team should do first and then the next step. The ultimate goal is to transform a very complex situation into a simple problem by following straightforward algorithms to achieve a good outcome. The dilemma is that common algorithms used for "single body area" injury are usually not applicable for multisystem or multi-cavitary injuries. The first 5 or 10 minutes of trauma resuscitation are critical for the patient's outcome. The goal of nursing and the trauma surgical team during that short time frame is to address injuries and clinical situations that are life threatening. We routinely use the "ABCs" resuscitation strategy to achieve that goal; whenever that sequence is changed, a bad outcome ensues. It is proposed that the trauma team addressing complex problems in patients with multiple injuries can follow the same principles. Several challenging scenarios are common in clinical practice. For discussion purposes these will be divided according to the mechanism of injury either penetrating or blunt.
Cervical spine clearance in the blunt trauma patient: a review of current management strategies.	The risks of overlooking a cervical spine injury in a polytrauma patient still remain substantial even with the development of recent advanced radiologic imaging and practice management guidelines. Cervical spine clearance continues to pose a diagnostic dilemma to the trauma team providing care for these patients. There are several issues with legal, medical, and economic implications: which patient populations require cervical spine radiographs; which views should be obtained; is there efficacy in flexion/extension radiographs, CT scan, or MRI scans; in the obtunded patient can the absence of significant ligamentous injury be demonstrated; who should perform clearance methods and be ultimately responsible for valid clearance. The purpose of this article is to revisit current management strategies for clearance of the cervical spine and explore new findings if any, which have been accepted as standard of care by providers, faced with this challenging responsibility.
A survey of orthopaedic traumatologists concerning the use of bone growth stimulators.	The purpose of the study was to determine the attitudes of members of the Orthopaedic Trauma Association (OTA) concerning the use and efficacy of bone growth stimulators. A questionnaire regarding bone growth stimulators was sent to the active members of the OTA. Descriptive statistics was performed using frequencies and percentages. All analyses were performed using Stata for Linux, version 8.0 (Intercooled Stata, Stata Corporation; College Station, TX). A response rate of 43% was obtained. Respondents indicated that they only occasionally used bone stimulators for the treatment of acute fractures and stress fractures. A majority of respondents have utilized stimulators for the treatment of delayed unions and nonunions. It was concluded that many members of the OTA utilize bone stimulators for delayed unions and nonunions, but not routinely for the treatment of acute fractures or stress fractures.
