Bradykinin and neuronal injury.	Bradykinin, a nine-amino-acid peptide formed from a large precursor polypeptide (kininogen) by the action of the enzyme kallikrein (kininogenase), is the initial mediator of inflammation, and, in particular, bradykinin induces pain and alters vascular permeability. Bradykinin is one of the first compounds produced at the site of tissue injury and subsequently initiates a cascade of reactions that produce the cardinal features of inflammation. We will explore the role that bradykinin plays in various types of neuronal injury. In particular, we will focus on the role that bradykinin and other kinins play in brain and spinal cord trauma, in the pathophysiology of subarachnoid and intraparenchymal hemorrhage and ischemia, and in the initiation of nociceptive pain. This role suggests that bradykinin antagonists may be clinically useful in the therapeutic management of neurosurgical patients.
Nervous system sports-related injuries.	With the evolution of sports medicine as a subspecialty comes a redirection of attention to the medical and athletic communities to the prompt recognition and timely treatment of many potentially serious conditions. Nervous system complications of sports injuries have gone largely unaddressed in the literature. It is the goal of this communication to review the wide range of nervous system injuries due to sports activities, discuss the mechanisms of such injuries, and focus attention on their prevention and management. The role of the neurologist and neurosurgeon as a sports medicine team member will be discussed, as will their roles in planning and development of programs and equipment at the secondary school, collegiate, and professional levels.
Computer-assisted localization of nervous system injuries.	Expert systems to assist in neurological diagnosis require a representation of anatomical relationships. In order to test one representational method, a prototype expert system was developed. It accepts patient signs of neurological dysfunction and identifies the site of nervous system injury. The system's knowledge base is contained in a semantic network which represents nervous system anatomy and the physical signs of injuries. When provided with an individual's physical signs, the network is searched by a simple algorithm; the anatomical locations which best explain the physical signs are the system's output. Medical expert systems which require anatomical reasoning can use a direct representation of spatial relationships to avoid the difficulties of encoding clinical associations in the form of If-Then rules.
Occupational neurology.	The nervous system is vulnerable to the effects of certain chemicals and physical conditions found in the work environment. The activities of an occupational neurologist focus on the evaluation of patients with neurological disorders caused by occupational or environmental conditions. When one is making a differential diagnosis in patients with neurological disorders, the possibility of toxic exposure or encounters with physical factors in the workplace must not be overlooked. Central to an accurate clinical diagnosis is the patient's history. A diagnosis of an occupational or environmental neurological problem requires a careful assessment of the clinical abnormalities and confirmation of these disabilities by objective tests such as nerve conduction velocity, evoked potentials, electroencephalogram, neuropsychological batteries, or nerve biopsy. On the basis of information about hazards in the workplace, safety standards and environmental and biological monitoring can be implemented in the workplace to reduce the risks of undue injury. Clinical manifestations of headache, memory disturbance, and peripheral neuropathy are commonly encountered presentations of the effects of occupational hazards. Physicians in everyday clinical practice must be aware of the signs and symptoms associated with exposure to possible neurotoxins and work methods. Occupational and environmental circumstances must be explored when evaluating patients with neurologic disorders.
Neurotrauma care and the neurosurgeon: a statement from the Joint Section on Trauma of the AANS and CNS.	The AANS and CNS support the concept of organized neurosurgical trauma care consisting of the appropriate combination of prepared communities and institutions and of adequate numbers of committed neurosurgeons. Furthermore, we support the guidelines of the ACS regarding institutions designated to receive trauma patients, and support the concept of prehospital triage of trauma victims based upon well-trained EMS personnel guided by criteria selected by the local neurosurgical community. We support audit systems that include neurosurgeons to assess and improve the quality of neurotrauma care. By using the principles outlined above, neurosurgeons can plan, support, and evaluate whatever system their community or region requires for the optimal care of the neurotrauma patient.
California Association of Neurological Surgeons' Emergency Services Committee report: guidelines for establishment of trauma centers.	The CANS supports the concept of organized neurological trauma care consisting of an appropriate amalgamation of prepared communities, institutions, and adequate numbers of committed neurosurgeons. It further supports the guidelines of the ACS regarding institutions designated to receive trauma cases. It opposes mandatory uncompensated limitations on practice imposed by trauma institutions. It supports the concept of prehospital triage of trauma victims as conducted by well-trained field personnel and reasonable triage criteria agreed upon by the local neurosurgical community. It further supports audit systems that include neurosurgeons to assess and improve the quality of neurosurgical care.
Electromyographic biofeedback: behavioral treatment of neuromuscular disorders.	Electromyographic biofeedback is becoming widely used to help patients regain voluntary control of specific muscles affected by neuromuscular disorders. Electromyographic feedback training has been employed in the rehabilitation of patients affected by poliomyelitis, cerebrovascular accident, torticollis, nerve injury, temporomandibular joint syndrome, bruxism, and other disorders. While EMG biofeedback appears to be a promising treatment technique, the research literature on its effectiveness consists mainly of uncontrolled case reports and clinical trials. It is concluded that new studies with more sophisticated design and more careful control are needed to demonstrate that EMG biofeedback makes a unique contribution to the treatment of neuromuscular disorders. Research is needed to identify relevant patients characteristics predictive of success, specify appropriate muscle groups for the treatment of particular disorders, determine how feedback can be most efficiently combined with more conventional techniques in achieving a therapeutic effect, and establish meaningful criteria of success in the treatment of neuromuscular disorders.
Causes of morbidity and mortality in severe pediatric trauma.	In a two-year period, we studied 160 patients with multiple trauma (injury to at least two body areas) and graded severity of neurologic injury according to the Glasgow Coma Scale. Injuries to other body areas were categorized by the Modified Injury Severity Scale. Neurologic injury was present in nearly 80% and constituted the most severe injury in 60%. Chest (40%) and extremity (30%) injuries were next most frequently encountered. Overall mortality was 13.8%, with 11.3% disability and 74.3% of patients achieving good recovery. There was some degree of neurologic injury in all patients who died or were disabled. Among all patients with head injuries (126), mortality was 16%, vs 6% in those without head injury (34). Other deaths were caused by chest (9%) or abdominal (14.5%) injuries.
Treatment of soft tissue injuries of the child's hand]	There are three major facts which differentiate injuries in children and adults: 1. The size of the hand and its anatomical structures which require finer instruments and a meticulous -- almost microsurgical -- operative technique. 2. The better healing and better regeneration following injuries which lead usually to a better functional result. 3. The relationship between scars and growth: a scar will not grow in the same way as normal skin, so that contractures may occur some years after the injury even in areas of the hand where in adults scar contractures may never occur. In this lecture, presented at the 17th Annual Meeting of The German Speaking Society for Surgery of the Hand in Tübingen, several cases demonstrate the general principles and special details in the operative treatment of soft tissue injuries in children. For the skin the correct placement of incisions in reconstructive surgery and the conversion of wounds into suture lines which will not lead to scar contractures are mentioned. Some cases with correction of existing scar contractures and prevention of new ones are shown (fig. 1 to 12). For flexor tendon injuries some of the satisfactory results after primary repair and secondary reconstruction are demonstrated. Also in nerve injuries the better regeneration in children will lead to good functional results following nerve grafting. In irreversible nerve damage tendon transfers are employed by the same technique as in adults (fig. 13 to 15). For the operative treatment of ischemic contractures of the forearm and the hand the different procedures are mentioned. The importance of the intrinsic test (PARKES) for the diagnosis of the contracture of the interossei is stressed (fig. 16 and 17). A case of thumb reconstruction in a four year old girl by transposition of the index finger on a neurovascular pedicle shows that in smaller children complicated reconstructive procedures can give excellent results (fig. 18).
Experiences with 2-stage flexor tendon transplantation]	Flexor tendon grafting in two stages, using silastic rods to prepare a new bed, is well known. In our opinion four indications are important: first -- loss of tendon and gliding surface due to infection or complex injuries; second -- lesions of the digital nerves; third -- defects of the skin and fourth -- replantation of amputated digits. We are convinced that two stage tendon grafting is a helpful concept for achieving reasonable functional results in special cases and complex injuries.
Pediatric seatbelt injuries: diagnosis and treatment of lumbar flexion-distraction injuries.	Motor vehicle accidents are the major cause of flexion-distraction injuries of the thoracolumbar spine. In a retrospective review, we present the results of operative treatment for six pediatric patients who sustained such injuries while wearing seatbelts. There were three purely ligamentous injuries, two bony injuries (Chance fractures), and one combination injury. There were also concomitant neurological and intra-abdominal injuries. Of note is that two patients had either their spinal or abdominal injury missed on initial evaluation. All patients were treated surgically with open reduction and internal fixation. At average follow up of 2 years, all patients had a full range of motion with no back pain. Five had returned to their preinjury activity levels, while the sixth patient was paraplegic from his injury but was able to ambulate at home with crutches and knee-ankle-foot orthoses. We recommend operative reduction and two-level fusion of these injuries when (1) instability is apparent in either a purely ligamentous injury or an overtly unstable fracture-pattern, (2) significant kyphosis is present which cannot be reduced or maintained in a cast, or (3) there is associated neurological or intra-abdominal injury.
Does squatting reduce pelvic floor descent during defaecation?	Neurogenic faecal and urinary incontinence result from a stretch-induced injury to the pelvic nerves, from difficult childbirth or from chronic straining at stool. It has been suggested that the condition occurs less frequently in societies where the squatting position is used during defaecation, and that squatting may minimize pelvic floor descent. This is a prospective study which evaluates the position of the pelvic floor during defaecation straining in 52 patients. The position of the perineum was measured at rest and during maximal defaecation straining using a perineometer, with the patient in the left lateral, sitting and squatting positions. There was a significant difference in the position of the perineum at rest and on straining between the left lateral position and both the sitting and squatting positions. However, there was no significant difference at rest or on straining between the sitting and squatting positions. These results show that squatting does not reduce pelvic floor descent during defaecation straining, and imply that squatting would not help reverse stretch-induced pudendal nerve damage.
Factors limiting extremity function following vascular injury.	The clinical management of 47 patients with vascular injuries of the extremities is presented with emphasis on functional results. The method of restoration of vascular continuity or the presence of associated fractures or venous injury had little bearing on either the success of arterial repair or functional result. The most significant factor adversely affecting restoration of extremity function was the presence of associated major proximal nerve injury.
Injury-induced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase by glial and microglial cells in the leech central nervous system within minutes after injury.	It is known that nitric oxide (NO) is produced by injured tissues of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) within days of injury. The aim of the present experiments was to determine the cellular synthesis of NO in the CNS immediately after injury, using the CNS of the leech which is capable of synapse regeneration, as a step towards understanding the role of NO in nerve repair. We report that within minutes after crushing the nerve cord of the leech, the region of damage stained histochemically for NADPH diaphorase, which is indicative of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, and was immunoreactive for endothelial NOS (eNOS). On immunoblots of leech CNS extract, the same antibody detected a band with a relative molecular mass of 140,000, which is approximately the size of vertebrate eNOS. Cells expressing eNOS immunoreactivity as a result of injury were identified after freezing nerve cords, a procedure that produced less tissue distortion than mechanical crushing. Immunoreactive cells included connective glia and some microglia. Calmodulin was necessary for the eNOS immunoreactivity: it was blocked by calmodulin antagonist W7 (25 microM), but not by similar concentrations of the less potent calmodulin antagonist W12. Thus in the leech CNS, in which axon and synapse regeneration is successful, an increase in NOS activity at lesions appears to be among the earliest responses to injury and may be important for repair of axons.
