Ecological approach to the problem of monophyly of Neodermata (Platyhelminthes)]	The ecological scenario of the evolution of main branches of Neodermata is described. The first neodermateans (= promonogeneans) were parasites of the gill lamellae of Paleozoic jawless vertebrates, which were microphagous suspension-feeding animals. The main apomorphic characters of the primary neodermateans are neodermis, cercomer (posterior hooked attachment organ) and swimming infective larva. All subsequent evolution of Neodermata was related with their acquisition new niches in hosts, which were intensively diverging in that time adapting to new food types and conquering new ecological niches. The acquisition of new microhabitats was accompanied by the development of morphological diversity in Neodermata especially in a structure of attachment and genital organs. Trematoda, Cestoda and Polyopisthocotylea comprise specialized evolutionary lineages and Monopisthocotylea is a basal taxon. Polyopisthocotylea is specialized to the blood feeding on fish gills. The common ancestors of the Trematoda and Cestoda inhabited walls of gills and pharyngeal cavities, from where they penetrated the digestive tract. The aspidogastridean multiloculate hold fast appears to be a highly specialized attachment organ of the monogenean ancestor, which inhabited muscular pharyngeal walls of Paleozoic vertebrates. The loss of cercomer hooks probably took place when mollusk-hosts have been involved in the aspidogastridean life cycle. The extinction of many chondrichthiean groups and progress of small plankton fishes (Teleostei) has led to the appearance Digenea. New vertebrate hosts needed a new infestation type and the cercaria appeared. Parthenogenesis has been developed in stages living in mollusks to counterbalance the loss of individuals at two transmission stages in the digenean cycle; this was resulted in a strong specificity to mollusk-host. Evolutionary tendencies of Trematoda and Cestoda show noticeable similarities.
Swimmers' dermatitis in an excavation pool--an incentive for the status analysis of the water and for the preparation of an ecology-friendly utilization concept]	In recent years, swimmer's itch occurred in several ground water lakes dud excavation pools in sporadic or epidemic outbreaks in the upper Rhine valley. They were caused by Trichobilharzia szidati. The Public Health Offices in Offenburg and Freiburg have been dealing extensively with this problem. They were also requested to comment on the use of lakes within a framework for regional development (Landschaftsrahmenplan) by the Southern Upper Rhine Regional Authority. An ecological study of water quality was prepared in summer 1989 in Offenburg. Hydrological and biological criteria were applied. Eutrophication due to excessive nutrient input proved to be the main problem. Measures for reduction were proposed that also included determining water use. Thus, specific use should either be prescribed from the beginning for each lake and made possible via ecologically oriented long-term maintenance measures, or use should be adapted to the natural succession process. Thus, after gravel quarrying, water sports including bathing would be possible, followed by fish farming and finally reservation as protected area.
Metabolic depression and spleen and liver enlargement in juvenile Arctic charr Salvelinus alpinus exposed to chronic parasite infection.	The present study on the connection between standard metabolic rate (R(S)) and chronic Diplostomum spp. infection resulted in a decrease in R(S), and an enlargement in spleen and liver sizes in the infected juvenile Arctic charr Salvelinus alpinus compared to control fish. As splenic enlargement observed in infected fish was not due to condition-related changes in the spleen, it could most probably be explained by increased leucocyte synthesis. The higher liver masses in infected S. alpinus may have been related to disorders in energetic function, which could have had major effects on biochemical regulation by the liver. The proposed metabolic syndrome with a possible reduction in insulin sensitivity in tissues results in ineffective glucose and lipid metabolism and thus it is suggested that chronic Diplostomum infection in S. alpinus might not impose direct energetic costs, but it may weaken the efficiency of energy metabolism and thus lead to lowered R(S).
Variation in anti-parasite behaviour and infection among larval amphibian species.	Along with immune defences, many animals exhibit effective anti-parasite behaviours such as parasite avoidance and removal that influence their susceptibility to infection. Host ecology and life history influence investment into comparatively fixed defences such as innate immunity but may affect the strength of anti-parasite behaviours as well. We investigated activity levels in five different species of larval amphibian with varying life histories and ecology in control, novel food stimulus, and trematode parasite (Echinoparyphium sp.) threat conditions. There was a significant interaction of species and treatment given that American toad (Bufo americanus), wood frog (Lithobates sylvaticus), and bullfrog (Lithobates catesbeianus) tadpoles generally increased their activity when parasite infectious stages were present while grey tree frogs (Hyla versicolor) and northern leopard frogs (Lithobates pipiens) did not, even though activity was negatively related to infection. In addition, there was considerable variation among species in their susceptibility to parasitism, with infection prevalence ranging from 17% in bullfrog tadpoles to 70% in wood frogs. However, amphibian life history (larval and adult traits) was not related to parasitism or level of anti-parasite behaviour at the species level. Consequently, we suggest that future investigations include more species with a range of life history traits and also consider host ecology, particularly if conspicuous anti-parasite behaviours are more likely in amphibian species that experience a relatively low risk of predation.
Recurrent pyogenic cholangitis: a study by endoscopic retrograde cholangiography.	Endoscopic retrograde cholangiograms were studied in 52 patients with recurrent pyogenic cholangitis, a condition which is prevalent in Asia and in which there is a primary bacterial cholangitis. The earlier changes of recurrent pyogenic cholangitis were identified and found to be confined to the intrahepatic biliary tree. The left hepatic duct was more severely affected than the right hepatic duct and had a higher infestation by clonorchis. The severity of radiological changes correlated well with the duration of illness and the need for surgery. Gallstones were present in 34.2% of the patients and pancreatic ductal abnormality in 7.7%. The decision for surgery could be made early and accurately, and the type of surgery and the assignment of surgeons could be planned in advance--situations which conventional intravenous cholangiograms could not achieve. Cholangitis complicated endoscopic retrograde cholangiograms in 23.1% of the initial 26 patients without antibiotic cover but none of the subsequent 26 in whom this was used.
Distribution of Azygia mirabilis (Trematoda, Azygiidae)]	The occurrence of the species has been analysed on the basis of the authors' own data, collection material of some parasitological laboratories and literary sources. It has been established that Azygia mirabilis is a rare species with a low number of populations. Only in Lakes Kujto (northern Karelia) and Pechozero (the Kola peninsular) the species is abundant.
Geographical distribution of the cercariae parasites of the molluscs belonging to the genus Hydrobia in France (author's transl)]	The author lists forty eight different species of larval digenean trematodes, observed in 20,000 molluscs belonging to the genus Hydrobia (H. ulvae, H. acuta and H. ventrosa). These hosts were examined from twelve different salt marshes and estuaries around the coasts of France (seven on the Channel, three on the Atlantic Ocean and two on the Mediterranean sea). The collections were made in fifteen sites from 1973 to 1977. The list of the species of larval trematodes found in each site is shown in fifteen tables. These one sum up the prevalence of parasitism in each population of molluscs collected and at times its incidence over a period of two years or more.
Life history and habitat analysis of the eye fluke Diplostomum spathaceum (trematoda: diplostomatidae) in Utah.	Diplostomum spathaceum which is widespread throughout Utah in desert, mountain valley, and high alpine lakes, causes a disease known as diplostomatosis or eye fluke disease. Snails (756) were examined and two species, Lymnaea stagnalis and L. palustris were positive for D. spathaceum. Examination of 838 fish, which included 19 species, revealed 10 species (Salmo trutta, Catostomus discobulus, Salmo clarki, Micropterus salmoides, Catostomus platyrhynchus, Salmo gairdneri, Gila atraria, Catostomus ardens, Salvelinus fontinalis, and Richardsonius balteatus) positive for metacercariae of D. spathaceum. The only avian hosts positive for adult Diplostomum were Larvus californicus and L. delawarensis.
