Comparison of cyclic AMP production in response to LH by granulosa and theca cells from Meishan and Large-White hybrid gilts.	Previous experiments have demonstrated differences in various follicular characteristics between the prolific Chinese Meishan (MS) pig and European Large-White (LW) hybrids and the present experiment was designed to compare the cAMP response to LH by granulosa and theca cells in vitro between the two breeds. Ovaries were recovered from MS (n = 7) and LW hybrid (n = 8) gilts on the day before predicted oestrus and the 12 largest follicles dissected. Quadruplicate aliquots of granulosa cells or minced theca tissue were incubated for 1 h in the presence of 0, 0.1, 1.0, 10, 100 or 1000 ng/ml LH and cAMP production measured. Follicles from MS gilts were smaller (5.9 vs. 7.7 mm; P < 0.001), contained less fluid (81.5 vs. 177.4 microl; P < 0.001), had fewer granulosa cells (3.8 vs. 5.3 x 10(6); P < 0.01) and less theca tissue (30.3 vs. 50.5 mg; P < 0.05) than those from LW hybrid animals. Mean follicular fluid oestradiol concentration was > or = 149 ng/ml in all animals and tended to be higher in the MS follicles (P = 0.07). LH stimulated cAMP production by granulosa and theca cells from both breeds (P < 0.001). Although there was no overall breed effect for the granulosa cells, there was a significant (P < 0.001) interaction between LH dose and breed in the granulosa cells, whether cAMP production was expressed per 10(6) cells or per follicle. In the theca incubations, cAMP production by MS tissue was higher (P < 0.01) when results were expressed per mg tissue and again there was an interaction (P < 0.001) between LH dose and breed whether cAMP production was expressed per mg tissue or per follicle. For both tissue types, MS follicles produced more cAMP at the higher LH doses. In conclusion, this study has shown that MS granulosa and theca tissue respond differently to increasing doses of LH in terms of cAMP production in vitro compared to LW hybrid tissue and this supports previous suggestions of enhanced maturity of MS follicles in the late follicular phase.
Protein turnover and sensory traits of longissimus muscle from implanted and nonimplanted heifers.	Primary bovine muscle cell culture studies were conducted to determine whether implanting heifers had a direct effect on in vitro protein synthesis and degradation and to determine the effect of implanting heifers on longissimus muscle palatability. Feedlot heifers (n = 96) were administered one of six implant regimens to characterize their effect on in vitro amino acid uptake and protein degradation. Treatments consisted of: 1) a nonimplanted control (NI/NI); 2) no implant on d 1 and Revalor-H administered on d 84 of the experiment (NI/Rev); 3) Revalor-H on d 1, but no implant given at d 84 (Rev/NI); 4) Revalor-H administered on d 1 and d 84 (Rev/Rev); 5) Revalor-IH administered on d 1 and Revalor-H at d 84 (RIH/Rev); and 6) Synovex-H given at d 1 and Revalor-H administered at d 84 (Syn/Rev). Blood and longissimus lumborum muscle were collected 20 min postmortem, and serum and muscle extracts were incubated with primary bovine muscle cells. Implant treatments had minimal effects on shear force and sensory traits; however, steaks from Rev/Rev heifers were 0.31 kg more tender (P < 0.05) than steaks from NI/NI heifers. Serum protein synthesis and degradation were not affected (P > 0.10) by any implant treatment. When primary bovine muscle cells were treated with muscle extract, amino acid uptake was greater for heifers implanted with Rev/ Rev than for the average of all other treatments (P < 0.01). The Rev/Rev implant regimen also increased (P < 0.05) amino acid uptake compared with heifers treated with RIH/Rev, Syn/Rev, NI/NI, NI/Rev, or Rev/NI. Cellular protein degradation of the muscle cell culture treated with muscle extract tended (P < 0.10) to be higher in NI/NI-treated cells compared with the average of all implant treatments. In addition, cells treated with muscle extract from heifers implanted with Rev/Rev had lower (P < 0.05) protein degradation than the NI/NI control heifers. These results indicate that anabolic implant strategies can directly affect both muscle protein synthesis and degradation via effects that seem to be more autocrine than paracrine in nature.
Synchronization of estrus and ovulation in sows not conceiving in a scheduled fixed-time insemination program.	A field study was conducted to investigate the effectiveness of a treatment with altrenogest, eCG and hCG or the GnRH-analogue D-Phe(6)-LHRH to synchronize estrus and ovulation of sows diagnosed as non-pregnant in order to reintegrate them back into a scheduled fixed-time insemination program. Sows (n=531) diagnosed as non-pregnant by ultrasonography on days 21-35 after insemination were subjected to one of three treatments: (1) 16 mg altrenogest/day/animal orally for 15 days to block follicular growth, followed by injection of 1000 IU eCG intramuscularly (i.m.) 24h after withdrawal of altrenogest to stimulate follicular growth and 500 IU hCG i.m. 78-80 h after eCG to induce ovulation; (2) similar to (1) except that 20mg altrenogest and 800 IU eCG were used and (3) similar to (2) except that 50 microg D-Phe(6)-LHRH was used to induce ovulation. Females were artificially inseminated (AI) twice at 24 and 40 h, respectively, after hCG/D-Phe(6)-LHRH. Success of treatments was checked by ultrasonography of the ovaries. Rates of conception and farrowing (CR, FR), and number of total and live born piglets (TB, LB) were recorded and compared to those of synchronized first served sows. Females had differing ovarian structures prior to treatment. Altrenogest effectively blocked follicular growth in >80% of the females irrespective of dosage, but 16 mg increased the development of polycystic ovarian degeneration. Four to 18% of the females still had corpora lutea after altrenogest. Most females ovulated either between both inseminations or thereafter (P<0.05). Females treated with D-Phe(6)-LHRH tended to ovulate earlier than those injected with hCG. The CR and FR were up to 25% lower for sows diagnosed as non-pregnant than for sows after first service (P<0.05). Among sows diagnosed as non-pregnant the CR was higher in females treated with D-Phe(6)-LHRH (P<0.05). No differences were found in regard to numbers of TB and LB. In conclusion, a treatment with 20mg altrenogest per day per animal, followed by 800 IU eCG and 50 microg the GnRH-analogue D-Phe(6)-LHRH is appropriate to synchronize estrus and ovulation of sows diagnosed as non-pregnant. Whether there might be a need to feed altrenogest for a longer interval of 18 days has to be investigated.
Comparison of alternative beef production systems based on forage finishing or grain-forage diets with or without growth promotants: 1. Feedlot performance, carcass quality, and production costs.	Forty Angus-cross steers were used to evaluate 5 beef cattle management regimens for their effect on growth performance, carcass characteristics, and cost of production. A 98-d growing phase was incorporated using grass silage with or without growth promotants (trenbolone acetate + estradiol implants, and monensin in the feed) or soybean meal. Dietary treatments in the finishing phase were developed, with or without addition of the same growth promotants, based on exclusive feeding of forages with minimal supplementation or the feeding of barley-based diets. Overall, ADG for animals treated with growth promotants or fed supplemented diets (soybean meal and barley) was increased (P < 0.01) by 25 and 21%, respectively, compared with steers reared on grass silage alone and not treated with growth promotants. Except for HCW (P < 0.01), the use of growth promotants did not affect carcass measurements. Increasing the proportion of barley in the diet of steers finished on forage produced a heavier HCW (P < 0.01) and a greater (P < 0.01) quality grade. Because of their lower HCW and quality grade, cattle targeted to a forage-fed, nonimplanted beef market would need to garner a 16% premium to be economically competitive with cattle finished conventionally.
Reproductive toxicity of trenbolone acetate in embryonically exposed Japanese quail.	This study was conducted to assess the effects of a one time embryonic exposure to trenbolone acetate on reproductive development and function in Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica). Embryos were exposed to either 0.05, 0.5, 5, or 50microg trenbolone or a sesame oil vehicle control at embryonic day 4. Onset of puberty, gonadal histopathology, sperm motility, cloacal gland size, and male copulatory behavior were assessed in adults. Trenbolone delayed onset of puberty in males, inhibited cloacal gland development, and reduced male reproductive behaviors. Industry laboratories have shown trenbolone acetate to be non-teratogenic in mammalian studies. Our study, however, shows that this one time in ovo exposure delayed onset of puberty in and suppressed adult copulatory behavior in quail males. These results suggest that this one time embryonic exposure to trenbolone may have disrupted development of either the central nervous system or the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. This is the first study to demonstrate a demasculinizing effect on copulatory behavior in Japanese quail from embryonic exposure to a non-aromatizable androgenic chemical. More studies are needed to determine the mechanisms behind the observed effects.
Immunotoxicity of trenbolone acetate in Japanese quail.	Trenbolone acetate is a synthetic androgen that is currently used as a growth promoter in many meat-exporting countries. Despite industry laboratories classifying trenbolone as nonteratogenic, data showed that embryonic exposure to this androgenic chemical altered development of the immune system in Japanese quail. Trenbolone is lipophilic, persistent, and released into the environment in manure used as soil fertilizer. This is the first study to date to assess this chemical's immunotoxic effects in an avian species. A one-time injection of trenbolone into yolks was administered to mimic maternal deposition, and subsequent effects on the development and function of the immune system were determined in chicks and adults. Development of the bursa of Fabricius, an organ responsible for development of the humoral arm of the immune system, was disrupted, as indicated by lower masse, and smaller and fewer follicles at day 1 of hatch. Morphological differences in the bursas persisted in adults, although no differences in either two measures of immune function were observed. Total numbers of circulating leukocytes were reduced and heterophil-lymphocyte ratios were elevated in chicks but not adults. This study shows that trenbolone acetate is teratogenic and immunotoxic in Japanese quail, and provides evidence that the quail immune system may be fairly resilient to embryonic endocrine-disrupting chemical-induced alterations following no further exposure posthatch.
Luteinizing hormone release after administration of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist Fertilan (goserelin) for synchronization of ovulation in pigs.	The generic GnRH agonist, Fertilan (goserelin), was tested for the ability to induce an LH surge and ovulation in estrus-synchronized gilts. Three experiments were performed to 1) examine the effect of various doses of Fertilan on secretion of LH in barrows, to select doses to investigate in gilts (Exp. 1); 2) determine doses of Fertilan that would induce a preovulatory-like rise of LH in gilts (Exp. 2); and 3) determine the time of ovulation after Fertilan treatment (Exp. 3). In Exp. 1, 10 barrows were injected on d 1, 4, 7, 10, and 13 with 10, 20, or 40 microg of Fertilan; 50 microg of Gonavet (depherelin; GnRH control) or saline (negative control); and sequential blood samples were collected for 480 min. There was a dose-dependent stimulation (P < 0.05) of LH release. Maximal plasma concentrations of LH (LH(MAX)) were 2.1 +/- 0.2, 4.1 +/- 0.3, 2.6 +/- 0.4, and 3.4 +/- 0.3 ng/mL after 10, 20, and 40 microg of Fertilan and 50 microg of Gonavet, respectively, and duration of release was 78 +/- 9, 177 +/- 12, 138 +/- 7, and 180 +/- 11 min, respectively. Fertilan doses of 10 and 20 microg were deemed to be the most suitable for testing in gilts. In Exp. 2, 12 gilts received (after estrus synchronization with Regumate and eCG) injections of 10 or 20 microg of Fertilan or 50 microg of Gonavet 80 h after eCG to stimulate a preovulatory-like LH surge and ovulation. An LH surge was induced in 3 of the 4 gilts in both of the Fertilan groups and in all of the Gonavet-treated gilts. Characteristics of induced release of LH did not differ among groups: LH(MAX), 5.0 +/- 0.9 vs. 4.6 +/- 1.8 vs. 6.6 +/- 1.1 ng/mL; duration, 11.7 +/- 2.0 vs. 12.3 +/- 2.2 vs. 14.3 +/- 0.5 h; interval from GnRH injection to LH(MAX), 4.0 +/- 2.0 vs. 6.7 +/- 1.3 vs. 5.8 +/- 1.6 h. In Exp. 3, estrus-synchronized gilts were injected with 20 microg of Fertilan (n = 8) or 50 microg of Gonavet (n = 4), and the time of ovulation was determined by repeated endoscopic examination. Time of ovulation ranged from 34 to 42 h postGnRH; however, ovulation occurred earlier in the Gonavet compared with the other groups (P < 0.05). Results of these experiments indicate that 1) barrows are an appropriate model for determining GnRH doses that can be effective in inducing a preovulatory-like LH surge in females; 2) the generic GnRH agonist Fertilan, at doses of 10 to 20 microg, can stimulate an LH surge in gilts, with subsequent ovulation; and 3) Fertilan at doses of 10 and 20 microg should be examined further for use in fixed-time insemination protocols.
An environmental androgen, 17beta-trenbolone, affects delayed-type hypersensitivity and reproductive tissues in male mice.	Recently, a growth promoter for farm animals, trenbolone acetate, was identified as an environmental androgen that potentially affects reproduction. Because androgens also suppress immunity, it was hypothesized that an active metabolite of trenbolone acetate, 17beta-trenbolone (TB), might impair immune responses. Castrated adult CD-1 mice were injected daily with either one of two different doses of 17beta-trenbolone (TB), testosterone propionate (TP), or corn oil (vehicle). The antigen-specific immune response was assessed by measuring delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses. Reproductive response was assessed by measuring reproductive tissue mass and determining testosterone concentrations. Mice treated with TB or TP displayed larger reproductive tissue mass than males treated with corn oil. Furthermore, males exposed to the highest dose of TB displayed a reduced DTH response compared to vehicle-treated animals. In comparison, TP, at a similar dose, only minimally reduced the DTH response. These data support the reproductive and potentially immunosuppressive effects of this environmental androgen, and raise the possibility of health concerns for individuals or populations in contact with high concentrations of TB.
The approach taken and conclusions reached by the Joint FAO-WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives.	The synthetic anabolic steroid trenbolone acetate (TBA) was evaluated by the Joint FAO-WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) in 1981, 1982, 1987 and 1989. Effects on reproductive function in rats were observed, with no-effect level of 0.5 mg TBA/kg diet. No evidence was found for a teratogenic potential of TBA in rats. From the results of in vitro as well as in vivo mutagenicity assays it was concluded that TBA was probably not genotoxic and that the increased tumour incidence observed in long-term studies in mice and rats arose as a consequence of the hormonal activity of TBA. The concentration of sex hormones in the circulation was significantly reduced and histopathological abnormalities (particularly in testes, ovaries and uteri) were observed in male and female pigs fed with high doses of TBA. The marginal no-effect level for these effects was 0.1 mg/kg diet, equal to approximately 2 micrograms/kg bw. The 34th JECFA meeting established an acceptable daily intake of 0-0.02 micrograms/kg bw of TBA.
Trenbolone: application of the Ames test. Recent data.	The mutagenicity of trenbolone, a synthetic androgen, was studied in a number of genotoxicity tests using in vitro and in vivo systems for gene mutations, chromosomal mutations and primary DNA damage demonstration. Only 2 tests were found to be positive or dubious: the in vitro micronucleus test in SHE cells (however, this test was negative in 2 other cell lines: C3H and CHO cells) and the Ames test for 1 of the 5 studies which found a positive result in TA 100 strain without metabolic activation. Repetition of this study with pure trenbolone showed no genotoxic activity; trenbolone was therefore considered to be devoid of genotoxic activity.
Covalent fixation in vivo of trenbolone acetate and estradiol to hepatic DNA of the rat: comparative study of the fixation of tritiated molecules and post labeling with radiophosphorus]	In vivo covalent binding of trenbolone and estradiol was assayed using either radiolabeled compounds or 32P-post labeling. The covalent binding index, as measured with tritiated molecules, was 2.4 for the alpha isomer of trenbolone, 5.4 for its beta isomer and 5.4 for 17-beta estradiol. Using 32P-post labeling at repeated medium doses or a single high dose did not allow any of the 3 compounds to reveal specific adducts in the background of adducts spontaneously formed in control animals. It can therefore be concluded that these steroids most probably do not have a direct genotoxic action.
Flushing and altrenogest affect litter traits in gilts.	Gilts (n = 267) were allotted to flushing (1.55 kg/d additional grain sorghum), altrenogest (15 mg.gilt-1.d-1) and control treatments in a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement. Altrenogest was fed for 14 d. Flushing began on d 9 of the altrenogest treatment and continued until first observed estrus; 209 gilts (78%) were detected in estrus. The interval from the last day of altrenogest feeding to estrus was shorter (P less than .05) with the altrenogest + flushing treatment (6.6 +/- .2 d) than with flushing alone (7.6 + .3 d). Ovulation rates (no. of corpora lutea) were higher (P less than .05) in all flushed gilts (14.5 +/- .4 vs 13.4 +/- .4), whether or not they received altrenogest. Flushing also increased the total number of pigs farrowed (.9 pigs/litter; P = .06) and total litter weight (1.43 kg/litter; P = .01), independent of altrenogest treatment. Number of pigs born alive and weight of live pigs were higher for gilts treated with altrenogest + flushing and inseminated at their pubertal estrus than for gilts in all other treatment combinations. In contrast, gilts receiving only altrenogest had greater live litter weight and more live pigs born when inseminated at a postpubertal estrus than when inseminated at pubertal estrus. We conclude that flushing increased litter size and litter weight, particularly for gilts that were inseminated at their pubertal estrus. Increased litter size resulted from increased ovulation rates, which, in nonflushed gilts, limited litter size at first farrowing.
The effect of different postweaning altrenogest treatments of primiparous sows on follicular development, pregnancy rates, and litter sizes.	This study investigated follicular development during and after postweaning altrenogest treatment of primiparous sows in relation to subsequent reproductive performance. Primiparous sows (n = 259) were randomly assigned at weaning (d 0) to 1 of 4 groups: control (no altrenogest, n = 71), RU4 (20 mg of altrenogest from d -1 to 2, n = 62), RU8 (20 mg of altrenogest from d -1 to 6, n = 65), or RU15 (20 mg of altrenogest from d -1 to 13, n = 61). Average follicular size (measured by ultrasound) increased during altrenogest treatment and resulted in larger follicles at the start of the follicular phase for RU4, RU8, and RU15 compared with controls (5.3 ± 0.9, 5.5 ± 1.3, 5.1 ± 1.2, and 3.4 ± 0.6 mm, respectively; P < 0.0001). Farrowing rate was greater in RU15 (95%) than in RU8 (76%; P = 0.04). The RU15 group also had more piglets (2 to 3 more piglets total born and born alive; P < 0.05) than the other treatment groups. Follicular development at weaning clearly affected reproductive performance. At weaning, average follicular size: small (<3.5 mm), medium (3.5 to 4.5 mm), or large (≥ 4.5 mm), was associated with farrowing rates of 86, 78, and 48%, respectively (P < 0.001). Sows with large follicles at weaning had low farrowing rates (71%) in RU4, very low farrowing rates (22%) in RU8, but normal farrowing rates in RU15 (83%). In conclusion, this study showed that 15 d of postweaning altrenogest treatment of primiparous sows may allow follicle turnover in sows that had large follicles at weaning and that this was associated with an improved reproductive performance. It also showed that shorter treatment with altrenogest (4 or 8 d) is beneficial for sows with small follicles at weaning, but is not recommendable for sows with large follicles at weaning.
Induction of ovulation in anoestrous mares with a slow-release implant of a GnRH analogue (ICI 118 630).	A total of 18 experimental pony and 136 commercial maiden, barren and foaling Thoroughbred mares in seasonal or lactation-related anoestrus were injected subcutaneously with 1 or 2 slow-release D,L-lactide-glycolide co-polymer implants impregnated with 0.9 or 1.8 mg of the potent GnRH analogue, ICI 118 630, to give a daily release of, respectively, 30 or 60 micrograms analogue for 28 days; 32 of the Thoroughbred mares were also given a daily oral dose of 27.5 mg allyl trenbolone for 5 days after injection of the implant. Thirteen pony (76%) and 120 Thoroughbred (88%) mares ovulated 3-18 days after treatment with ICI 118 630 and the additional treatment with allyl trenbolone did not significantly reduce the considerable variation in the interval between treatment with GnRH analogue and ovulation. Of 100 Thoroughbred mares mated during the GnRH analogue-induced oestrus, (70%) conceived. The results of this trial demonstrated that low-dose, slow-release formulations of GnRH agonists have considerable potential as a practical method of hastening renewed ovarian cyclicity in anoestrous mares.
Exogenous hormone regimens to utilize successfully mares in dioestrus (days 2-14 after ovulation) as embryo transfer recipients.	Two hormone regimens were utilized for recipient mares which were 2-14 days after ovulation at the time of non-surgical embryo transfer. In Exp. I, 20 embryos were transferred non-surgically into recipient mares which had been given 22 mg altrenogest daily starting the day of recipient ovulation. Higher (P less than 0.05) pregnancy rates (50% vs 0%) were obtained in mares which were 2-6 days after ovulation at the time of transfer compared with mares which were 7-12 days after ovulation. In Exp. II, on the day the donor mare ovulated (Day 0), 10 mg PGF-2 alpha were given to the recipient mare at 0 h, 20 mg oestradiol cypionate at 12, 24 and 36 h, 500 mg progesterone in oil at 48 h and then 22 mg altrenogest at 60, 72 and 96 h. Altrenogest (22 mg/day) was continued until Day 28 (fetal heart beat). The pregnancy rate (58% vs 10%) was higher (P less than 0.05) for the 12 recipient mares which were 10-14 days after ovulation than for the 10 mares that were 5-8 days after ovulation when treatment began. Early embryonic loss was detected in 4/8 pregnant recipient mares between Days 21 and 28 of gestation. We suggest that mares which are 2-14 days after ovulation and not in ovulation synchrony with the donor may be used as embryo transfer recipients; mares which are in early dioestrus can be given altrenogest while those in mid- to late dioestrus can be placed on the more complex hormone regimen.
Effect of altrenogest on pregnancy maintenance in unsynchronized equine embryo recipients.	Non-surgical embryo recovery attempts were done on Day 7 after ovulation. Embryo recovery rate from mares of varied reproductive histories was 57% (38/67). Non-surgical transfer of these embryos into altrenogest-treated recipient mares that ovulated between 3 days before and 3 days after the donor resulted in a 30-day pregnancy rate of 77% (10/13). Transfer of embryos into altrenogest-treated recipients that ovulated between 4 days before and 6 days after the donor resulted in an overall pregnancy rate of 64% (16/25) at Day 30 of gestation. No recipients that were in oestrus at the start of treatment, nor recipients that ovulated 5 or more days before the donor, maintained pregnancy. Mean plasma progesterone concentrations of pregnant, altrenogest-treated, embryo-recipient mares; pregnant, altrenogest-treated, untransferred mares; and pregnant, untreated, untransferred mares were comparable (P greater than 0.05). Treatment of embryo-recipient mares with altrenogest appears to be beneficial in extending the degree of donor-recipient synchrony required for successful embryo transfer. Altrenogest treatment also seems to be conductive to pregnancy maintenance in recipients experiencing luteal dysfunction.
Effect of repeated implantation with anabolic agents on growth rate, carcase weight, testicular size and behaviour of bulls.	The effects of implantation with different anabolic agents on growth rate, behaviour, carcase parameters and testicular size of bulls were evaluated in an experiment with 361 Friesian bulls about three months old on three farms. Animals were allocated to one of the following treatments: (a) Control; (b) repeated implantation with 36 mg zeranol at intervals of 95 to 124 days; (c) repeated implantation with 20 mg oestradiol benzoate plus 140 mg trenbolone acetate as in (b); (d) repeated implantation with 20 mg oestradiol benzoate plus 200 mg progesterone as in (b); (e) implanted once with 45 mg oestradiol-17 beta. Daily liveweight gain, carcase weight, testicular size and behaviour of the animals were the parameters measured. Repeated implantation of young bulls with hormones, beginning at eight to 10 weeks old, increases liveweight gain and carcase weight from 0 to 15 per cent, reduces aggressive behaviour and testicular size and, in some instances, improves conformation and increases fat cover of the carcase.
