PCR-based identification of Treponema maltophilum, T amylovorum, T medium, and T lecithinolyticum in primary root canal infections.	Molecular genetic methods have significantly contributed to the knowledge about the microbiota associated with infected root canals. Albeit spirochetes have been commonly observed in primary root canal infections, only recently they have been identified. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of four treponemes-Treponema maltophilum, Treponema lecithinolyticum, Treponema amylovorum, and Treponema medium-in cases of primary endodontic infections associated with different forms of periradicular diseases through a 16S rDNA-based nested PCR assay.
Frequent and preferential infection of Treponema denticola, Streptococcus mitis, and Streptococcus anginosus in esophageal cancers.	Multiple cancers frequently occur in the upper digestive tract. One possible explanation is that specific bacterial infection stimulates the normal epithelium to initiate inflammation and/or promotes carcinogenesis. This study was undertaken to determine which bacterial species is predominantly associated with esophageal cancer. We examined the bacterial diversity in this type of cancer and in the saliva from healthy people by using a culture-independent molecular method. Here we report the preferential and frequent infection of the oral periodontopathic spirochete Treponema denticola (T. denticola), Streptococcus mitis (S. mitis), and Streptococus anginosus (S. anginosus) in esophageal cancer from different regions of the world, and we also describe the induction of inflammatory cytokines by infection of S. anginosus and S. mitis. Our present data suggest that these three bacteria could have significant roles in the carcinogenic process of many cases of esophageal cancer by causing inflammation and by promoting the carcinogenic process, and that eradication of these three bacteria may decrease the risk of recurrence.
Treponemal infection coexisting with systemic lupus erythematosus.	A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)/erosive arthritis overlap is described who was also shown to have late latent treponemal infection. The possibility of serological reactivation is discussed. Since antiphospholipid antibodies are the basis of the reagin tests for syphilis as well as being present in patients with SLE, difficulties with diagnosis may ensue.
Ocular manifestations of endemic syphilis (bejel).	Bejel or nonvenereal syphilis is a treponemal infection that is still endemic in many parts of the world including Saudi Arabia. The authors have examined 17 patients with clinical findings consistent with bejel. All patients had positive serologic tests for bejel. There were 11 male and six female patients, with a mean age of 54 years (range, 37-73 years). Results of clinical examination showed uveitis in nine patients, optic atrophy in six, and chorioretinitis scars in six. In four patients who needed intraocular surgery, two aqueous specimens showed positive antibodies for Treponema pallidum.
