The variability of syphilitic chancres.	Sixty-four patients who had darkfield microscopic evidence of primary syphilis underwent a standardized interview and physical examination. Two or more lesions were observed in 47% of patients, 7.8% of patients had non-indurated ulcers, and the borders of the ulcers of 7.8% were irregular and slightly undermined, suggesting lesions of chancroid. Only 27 patients (42.7%) had single, indurated chancres with regional lymphadenopathy. It is suggested that the "classic" chancre may be the "atypical" lesion.
Analysis of Treponema pallidum recombinant antigens for diagnosis of syphilis by western blotting technique.	Three GST fusion recombinant antigen of Treponema pallidum, described as GST-rTp47, GST-rTp17 and GST-rTp15 were analyzed by Western blotting techniques. We have tested 53 serum samples: 25 from patients at different clinical stages of syphilis, all of them presenting anti-treponemal antibody, 25 from healthy blood donors and three from patients with sexually transmitted disease (STD) other than syphilis. Almost all samples from patients with syphilis presented a strong reactivity with GST-rTp17 antigen. Some samples were non-reactive or showed a weak reaction with GST-rTp47 and/or GST-rTp15, and apparently there was no correlation with the stage of disease. There was no seropositivity among blood donors. No sample reacted with purified GST. We concluded that due to their specificity these recombinant antigens can be used as GST fusion protein for development of syphilis diagnostic assays.
The epidemiology of gonorrhoea, chlamydial infection and syphilis in four African cities.	To compare the epidemiology of gonorrhoea, chlamydial infection and syphilis in four cities in sub-Saharan Africa; two with a high prevalence of HIV infection (Kisumu, Kenya and Ndola, Zambia), and two with a relatively low HIV prevalence (Cotonou, Benin and Yaoundé, Cameroon).
Depressed CD4/CD8 ratio in TPHA-negative patients with syphilis.	The Treponema pallidum hemagglutination assay (TPHA) is a widely used method for screening syphilis. We report our experience with six elderly (age 72.4 +/- 8.3 years) patients with syphilis, whose TPHA was negative. Their cardiolipin (RPR) and absorbed fluorescence treponemal tests (FTA-ABS) were positive. TPHA-negative patients with syphilis were compared with TPHA-positive syphilitics by immunological analysis. We found that both the numbers and the percentage of CD4 cells in TPHA-negative syphilitics were significantly lower than those in TPHA-positive syphilitics (722 +/- 142 vs. 1,064 +/- 141/mm3, P less than 0.01: 35.1 +/- 6.9 vs. 48.4 +/- 6.4%, P less than 0.01) and that the ratio of CD4 to CD8 was also lower in TPHA-negative syphilitics compared with TPHA-positive syphilitics (1.08 +/- 0.46 vs. 2.24 +/- 1.07, P less than 0.05). These data suggest that the TPHA is insufficient for excluding elderly syphilitics because of immunological impairment seen in aged patients.
Specific immunofluorescent staining of pathogenic treponemes with a monoclonal antibody.	Two hybrid cell lines which produced mouse monoclonal antibody to the DAL-1 street strain of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum were established. These monoclonal antibodies strongly reacted with T. pallidum subsp. pallidum (Nichols strain, DAL-1, and two other street strains, strains MN-1 and MN-3) and T. pallidum subsp. pertenue by indirect microimmunofluorescent antibody and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay techniques, but they did not react with normal rabbit testicular tissue. These monoclonal antibodies did not react with nonpathogenic treponemes, such as T. phagedenis Reiter, T. denticola MRB, T. refringens Noguchi, or other spirochetes, such as Borrelia burgdorferi and Leptospira interrogans serovar pomona in microimmunofluorescent antibody smear slides or in Western blots (immunoblots). While unlabeled antibodies are useful for investigating the antigenic structures of T. pallidum, we labeled these monoclonal antibodies with fluorescein isothiocyanate and used them for diagnosing syphilis by direct staining of lesion exudate or T. pallidum subsp. pallidum in formalin-fixed tissues from patients suspected of having syphilis. Both monoclonal antibodies were directed against antigens of T. pallidum subsp. pallidum with a molecular weight of 37,000 as determined by the Western blotting technique.
The effects of Treponema pallidum on human dendritic cells.	Cell mediated immune responses play a prominent role in syphilis, which is caused by Treponema pallidum. The role of dendritic cells (DC) in the syphilitic infection is not well understood in human. In the present study, we studied interaction of T. pallidum with DC, generated from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells with GM-CSF and IL-4. After adding T. pallidum for 16 hours to immature DC at culture day 7, the change of surface antigens on DC was monitored by flow cytometry, the amount of IL-12 in culture supernatant of DC was measured by ELISA and T cell stimulatory capacity of DC was checked in mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). We have observed an efficient phagocytosis of T. pallidum by electron microscopy as early as 2 hours after addition of T. pallidum to DC. Interaction of DC with T. pallidum resulted in increased surface expression of CD83 which was proportionally increased according to the number of T. pallidum. Expressions of CD80, CD86 and HLA-DR on DC were slightly increased. The amount of IL-12 in the culture supernatant of DC was increased (1,099 pg/ml) after the addition of T. pallidum. T. pallidum-infected DC also displayed enhanced T cell stimulatory capacity in MLR. As seen from the above, we observed phagocytosis of T. pallidum by DC as early as 2 hours after addition of T. pallidum to DC and found that T. pallidum can stimulate DC maturation which mean that DC modulate an protective immune response during T. pallidum infection.
Alternative cerebrospinal fluid tests to diagnose neurosyphilis in HIV-infected individuals.	To identify alternatives to the CSF-Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test for the diagnosis of neurosyphilis in HIV-infected individuals.
Application of quantitative immunofluorescence to clinical serology: antibody levels of Treponema pallidum.	A previously reported method of quantitative immunofluorescence, employing a calibrated photometric system and chemically stabilized fluorescence intensity, was used to replace the subjective, visual method of endpoint determination with a quantitative, calibrated measurement of antibodies to Treponema pallidum in serum. The results of the quantitative immunofluorescence method showed a 90% correlation with the subjective determinations of the visual method.
Alterations in the course of experimental syphilis associated with concurrent simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	Case reports suggest that the course of syphilis is altered in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). To investigate this issue, a model of syphilis in rhesus macaques with and without simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) was developed. After intradermal inoculation with Treponema pallidum, 2 SIV-infected monkeys had persistent ulcerative primary lesions and 1 developed secondary syphilis. Two SIV-uninfected controls developed transient nonulcerative primary lesions. Only the controls showed consistent VDRL antibody responses. In contrast, reciprocal antibody titers to T. pallidum detected by microhemagglutination were higher in SIV-infected animals (greater than or equal to 20,480) than controls (greater than or equal to 1280). All 4 animals developed a full range of T. pallidum antigen-specific antibodies shown by immunoblot and had similar peak lymphocyte proliferative responses to T. pallidum antigens. These results support the contention that retrovirus-induced immunodeficiency delays clearance of T. pallidum from sites of infection and may impair the humoral immune response to syphilis.
Immunological evaluation and cellular location analysis of the TprI antigen of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum.	The TprI antigen of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum is a putative virulence factor predicted to be located in the outer membrane of the syphilis spirochete. In this study, we analyzed the immune response against TprI and its subunits in sera collected both from rabbits experimentally infected with the Nichols strain and from patients with syphilis, showing a different pattern of reactivity toward the antigen in these two groups of samples. The protective ability of recombinant TprI and its hypothetical outer membrane location were also investigated. Although no rabbit was protected after challenge, immunoelectron microscopy results, to be further investigated, were compatible with the outer membrane location of the antigen.
Specific immunofluorescence staining of Treponema pallidum in smears and tissues.	To date, tissue sections prepared from Formalin-fixed tissues have not been successfully stained with Treponema pallidum subspecies-specific antibody in a direct fluorescent-antibody assay. While current methods stain T. pallidum, they do not distinguish T. pallidum from other spirochetes such as Borrelia burgdorferi (E. F. Hunter, P. W. Greer, B. L. Swisher, A. R. Simons, C. E. Farshy, J. A. Crawford, and K. R. Sulzer, Arch. Pathol. Lab. Med. 108:878-880, 1984). Because trypsin pretreatment of tissue sections has enhanced other immunofluorescent-antibody (IFA) applications, we compared the use of the trypsin digestion method with the current 1% ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH) method as a means to obtain specific staining of T. pallidum in tissues by both direct and indirect IFA techniques. Pretreated T. pallidum-infected tissues sections from rabbits, hamsters, and humans were quantitatively examined with the direct fluorescent-antibody-T. pallidum test conjugate absorbed with Treponema phagedenis, the Reiter treponeme. For indirect staining, a serum specimen from a patients with syphilis absorbed by affinity chromatography with T. phagedenis was used as the primary reagent, and a fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled rabbit anti-human globulin was used as the secondary reagent. Serum specificity was established first by examining antigen smears of T. pallidum subsp. pallidum, T. pallidum subsp. pertenue, B. burgdorferi, T. phagedenis, and Treponema denticola MRB and then by examining tissues infected with these pathogens plus those infected with four Leptospira serovars. When we stained tissue using the direct IFA method that is currently a standard method for the examination of chancre smears, we found it to be unsuitable for use with tissue. Trypsin digestion did not offer an improvement over the NH4OH pretreatment method in the specific identification of T. pallidum by direct IFA. However, specific identification of T. pallidum in tissue sections was obtained by the indirect IFA technique after either trypsin or NH4OH pretreatment.
Phagocytosis of Borrelia burgdorferi and Treponema pallidum potentiates innate immune activation and induces gamma interferon production.	We examined the interactions of live and lysed spirochetes with innate immune cells. THP-1 monocytoid cells were activated to comparable extents by live Borrelia burgdorferi and by B. burgdorferi and Treponema pallidum lysates but were poorly activated by live T. pallidum. Because THP-1 cells poorly internalized live spirochetes, we turned to an ex vivo peripheral blood mononuclear cell system that would more closely reflect spirochete-mononuclear phagocyte interactions that occur during actual infection. In this system, B. burgdorferi induced significantly greater monocyte activation and inflammatory cytokine production than did borrelial lysates or T. pallidum, and only B. burgdorferi elicited gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) from NK cells. B. burgdorferi was phagocytosed avidly by monocytes, while T. pallidum was not, suggesting that the enhanced response to live B. burgdorferi was due to phagocytosis of the organism. When cytochalasin D was used to block phagocytosis of live B. burgdorferi, cytokine production decreased to levels comparable to those induced by B. burgdorferi lysates, while the IFN-gamma response was abrogated altogether. In the presence of human syphilitic serum, T. pallidum was efficiently internalized and initiated responses resembling those observed with live B. burgdorferi, including the production of IFN-gamma by NK cells. Depletion of monocytes revealed that they were the primary source of inflammatory cytokines, while dendritic cells (DCs) directed IFN-gamma production from innate lymphocytes. Thus, phagocytosis of live spirochetes initiates cell activation programs in monocytes and DCs that differ qualitatively and quantitatively from those induced at the cell surface by lipoprotein-enriched lysates. The greater stimulatory capacity of B. burgdorferi versus T. pallidum appears to be explained by the successful recognition and phagocytosis of B. burgdorferi by host cells and the ability of T. pallidum to avoid detection and uptake by virtue of its denuded outer membrane rather than by differences in surface lipoprotein expression.
Seropositivity of HIV, HBV, HCV and Treponema pallidum in blood donors in southeast Mexico]	To determine the prevalence of serological markers for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B (HVB) and C (HCV) viruses, and Treponema pallidum in blood donors.
Is congenital syphilis really congenital syphilis?	Detroit has recently been distinguished as having the highest congenital syphilis rate in the United States (250.3 cases per 100 000 live births in Detroit versus 10.3 in the US). However, depending on each health department's followup and CDC reporting, these data may not accurately reflect the true congenital syphilis rate. This study examines the reported cases over a three-year time period with focus on the criteria used for diagnosis. All local health department congenital syphilis CDC collection forms (form 73.126) were reviewed for the years in question. The reported congenital syphilis cases in the year 2002-2004 in Detroit were reviewed. No cases met confirmed case criteria and few probable cases were based on neonatal evaluations. The majority of "congenital syphilis" cases were established based on incomplete maternal data such as missing followup serologic titers in the absence of complete neonatal information. In conclusion, although the reported congenital syphilis rate in Detroit is alarmingly high, the true occurrence of congenital syphilis is likely to have been overstated. A health department reporting program that includes more diligent neonatal followup would allow for a more accurate representation of this public health concern.
The direct diagnosis of syphilis--modern standards and directions of development]	The methods of direct diagnosis of syphilis developed slowly, in contrast to dynamic development of serological diagnosis of the disease. The authors present modern modes of identification of Treponema pallidum and directions of their modifications. The cultivation of Treponema pallidum in vitro, the different methods of nucleic acids amplifications and their practical application are discussed.
The significance of Karl Landsteiner's works for syphilis research]	On January 7th 1905, more than five months before the detection of T. pallidum, Karl Landsteiner began his work on syphilis research together with notable members of the Viennese School of Medicine, namely Ernest Finger, Rudolf Müller, Viktor Mucha, Otto Pötzl and others. Extensive animal experiments led to the formulation of the Finger-Landsteiner Law and provided the basic facts for the Jadasson-Lewandowsky Law. Attempts of active or passive immunization were unsuccessful and, indeed, were still a failure in 1990 after implementation of the latest tools of modern research, including gene technology. Dark-field microscopy was introduced for the detection of T. pallidum by Landsteiner and Mucha. These authors noted that serum of syphilitic patients inhibited the movements of T. pallidum and, thus, observed the basic principle underlying the T. pallidum immobilization test (= TPI = Nelson-Mayer test). Finally, Landsteiner, Müller and Pötzl discovered that it was not an antibody specific to T. pallidum that reacted in the Wassermann reaction, but "autotoxic" substances, which they called reagines. During the 1970's and 1980's it was discovered that these reagines are autoantibodies directed against parts of the inner envelope of the mitochondria.
Evaluation of a colloidal gold immunochromatography assay in the detection of Treponema pallidum specific IgM antibody in syphilis serofast reaction patients: a serologic marker for the relapse and infection of syphilis.	Syphilis remains as a worldwide public health problem; hence, it is necessary to develop a new diagnostic approach that is easier and faster than conventional tests. A new testing method to detect Treponema pallidum IgM (TP-IgM), named colloidal gold immunochromatography assay (GICA), is presented in place of fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-Abs). TP-IgM was detected using GICA developed on syphilis-specific recombinant proteins TPN17 and TPN47. The FTA-Abs IgM test was set as the gold standard. A GICA TP-IgM test was performed to detect syphilis in 1208 patients who received recommended therapy for syphilis for more than 1 year at the Xiamen Center of Clinical Laboratory in China from June 2005 to May 2009. One hundred blood donors were set up as control. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, positive likelihood ratio, and negative likelihood ratio were 98.21%, 99.04%, 93.75%, 99.73%, 102.3, and 0.018, respectively. Detection on 500 interference specimens indicated that the biological false-positive rate of the GICA test was extremely low and was free from other biological and chemical factors. The patients were divided into the following experimental groups based on the results of toluidine red unheated serum test (TRUST) and treponemal pallidum particle agglutination (TPPA): (1) the syphilis serofast reaction (SSR) group consisted of 411 cases with (+) TRUST and (+) TPPA, which exhibited no clinical manifestations of syphilis after 1 year of recommended syphilis treatment; (2) the serum cure group, which was further subdivided into group A, a group that consisted of 251 cases with (-) TRUST and (+) TPPA, and (3) group B, a group that consisted of 546 cases with (-) TRUST and (-) TPPA; and (4) the blood donor control group, which consisted of 100 healthy persons with (-) ELISA-TP and (-) TPPA. We used the FTA-Abs method and the GICA method to detect TP-IgM; the positive rate of TP-IgM in 411 SSR patients was 34.55% and 36.01%, respectively. However, in serum cure group A, the positive rate of TP-IgM was 10.36% and 11.16%, respectively. The χ(2) test revealed that there is a significant difference in the positive rate between these 2 groups (P < 0.01). The TP-IgM positive rate in the same group, as detected by the GICA method and the FTA-Abs method, had no significant difference in statistics. However, as detected by the GICA method and the FTA-Abs method, all the samples in serum cure group B and the control group were negative for TP-IgM. The TP-IgM-positive result demonstrated that active T. pallidum remained in the bodies of SSR patients. In summary, the characteristics of GICA TP-IgM correspond to that of FTA-Abs TP-IgM; this can be used as a serologic marker for the relapse and infection of syphilis in place of the conventional FTA-Abs IgM test.
Association of the HLA-DRB1 locus with syphilis in a Chinese population.	Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by the Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum spirochete bacterium. The association of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) with syphilis has been reported in several populations, but not in the Chinese population. Furthermore, serology methods have mostly been used in previous studies investigating the association between STIs and HLA alleles. The objective of this study was to analyze the association of the HLA-DRB1 alleles and susceptibility to syphilis in the Chinese population.
Meningovascular neurosyphilis as the cause of ischemic cerebrovascular disease in a young man]	Authors report a case of a 35-year-old male with right-sided mild paresis, incontinence, dysexecutive syndrome, short-term memory loss and behavioral changes. Bilateral cerebral infarcts in the region of the caudate nuclei and the adjacent white matter were proved by brain MRI and multiple stenoses of the branches of Willis-circle were confirmed by MR angiography. Elevated protein level and pleocytosis were found in the cerebrospinal fluid with intrathecal IgG synthesis. Serum rapid plasma reagin, Treponema pallidum Particle Agglutination test, Treponema pallidum ELISA, liquor Venereal Disease Research Laboratory tests were positive. Meningovascular neurosyphilis was diagnosed. 24M U/day intravenous penicillin-G treatment was given for 14 days. The patient has vascular dementia due to the bilateral strategic infarcts disconnecting the prefrontal circuits; his symptoms are similar to general paresis. Laboratory and radiologic improvement was observed. Still, the patient have severe residual cognitive decline.
Current methods for serological diagnosis of syphilis]	The paper gives information on novel diagnostic tests based on immunoblotting and immunochromatographic methods used to detect antibodies against Treponema pallidum. Whether these tests should be incorporated into an algorithm of the current serological diagnosis of syphilis is discussed.
Serum and cerebrospinal fluid profiles for syphilis in Thai patients with acute ischaemic stroke.	The diagnosis of neurosyphilis is complicated in elderly patients who have cerebrovascular risk factors and present with ischaemic stroke. We performed an analysis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) profiles for neurosyphilis in acute stroke patients, particularly in those with atherosclerotic risk factors. In sera, the rapid plasma reagin (RPR) test and Treponema pallidum haemagglutination assay (TPHA) were used. In CSF, the RPR and fluorescent treponemal antibody-absorption tests were used together with CSF white blood cell (WBC) count and protein level. Baseline characteristics, including atherosclerotic risk factors, severity of stroke and computed tomography brain scan images were collected. Of the total 284 patients, 24 (8.4%) had TPHA-positive sera, from which 29.2% had a positive CSF for syphilis. Seven stroke patients (2.5%), with a mean age of 65.7 years, were diagnosed with symptomatic neurosyphilis, and 71% of them had atherosclerotic risk factors. Most symptomatic patients (85.7%) had CSF WBCs>20 cells/mm(3), with a mean of 98.6 ± 136.0 versus 3.2 ± 7.3 in non-neurosyphilitic patients (P = 0.0009). Less than 50% of the symptomatic patients had CSF protein levels >50 mg/dL, and the protein levels of neurosyphilitic and non-neurosyphilitic groups were not significantly different, with means of 52.0 ± 12.9 and 51.8 ± 15.9 mg/dL, respectively. There were no significant differences in age and stroke severity. Interpretation of CSF findings, particularly of CSF WBC counts and protein levels, must be appropriate to ascertain true symptomatic neurosyphilis cases and to reduce false-positive diagnoses, particularly in countries with a high prevalence of T. pallidum infection.
Advances in syphilis detection]	Syphilis, a chronic bacterial infection caused by the spirochete Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum, remains a public health concern worldwide. Syphilis control is largely dependent upon early identification and prompt treatment. The diagnosis of syphilis is mainly based on laboratory tests, especially serology and dark-field microscopy. In recent years, recombinant Treponema pallidum antigen-based rapid tests, polymerase chain reaction, and immunoglobulin M antibody detection have also shown certain sensitivities and specificities for syphilitic patients at different stages.
Monoclonal antibodies directed against major histocompatibility complex antigens bind to the surface of Treponema pallidum isolated from infected rabbits or humans.	Evidence is presented for the association of class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens with the surface of Treponema pallidum during infection. A monoclonal antibody (IgG2a) directed against a murine H-2Kb epitope of public specificity reacted with the cell surface of T. pallidum, as assayed by the binding of protein A-colloidal gold in immunoelectron microscopy. Monoclonal antibodies directed against class I rabbit MHC antigens also reacted in immunofluorescence assays with material on the surface of rabbit-cultivated T. pallidum. In addition, impression smears of human syphilitic genital ulcers that were darkfield-positive for the presence of spirochetes were tested in immunofluorescence assays with monoclonal antibodies directed against human MHC antigens; antibody directed against HLA-ABC (class I) was reactive whereas antibody directed against HLA-DR (class II) was nonreactive. Results of the study suggest that the association of host-derived class I MHC antigens or molecular mimicry may play a role in T. pallidum evasion of host immune defenses.
Monoclonal antibodies directed against surface-associated polypeptides of Treponema pallidum define a biologically active antigen.	Murine monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) were raised against two outer-membrane-associated polypeptides of Treponema pallidum (47 and 44 kDa). Three Mabs against each polypeptide were investigated further and only those directed against the 44 kDa polypeptide were demonstrated to have immobilizing activity. The specificity of the Mabs for T. pallidum was determined by Western blotting procedures and the surface association of the antigens was inferred by immunogold electron microscopy. The clear distinction between these two polypeptides in their biological activity could help to explain the pathobiology of syphilis infections as the 47 kDa antigen has been shown to be associated with the outer membrane of this organism. Inactivity of such a surface-located protein in antibody-mediated anti-treponemal mechanisms could account for the observed ability of this organism to survive in the face of strong antibody responses in infection.
Plasmonic ELISA for the ultrasensitive detection of Treponema pallidum.	In this report, we have developed a plasmonic ELISA strategy for the detection of syphilis. Plasmonic ELISA is an enzyme-linked immunoassay combined with enzyme-mediated surface plasmon resonance (SPR) of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs). Immune response of the Treponema pallidum (T. pallidum) antibodies triggers the acetylcholinesterase-catalyzed hydrolysis of acetylthiocholine to produce abundant thiocholine. The positive charged thiol, in turn, alters the surface charge distribution the AuNPs and leads to the agglomeration of the AuNPs. The induced strong localized SPR effect of the agglomerate AuNPs can, thus, allow the quantitative assay of T. pallidum antibodies due to the remarkable color and absorption spectral response changes of the reaction system. The plasmonic ELISA exhibited a quasilinear response to the logarithmic T. pallidum antibody concentrations in the range of 1pg/mL-10ng/mL with a detection limit of 0.98pg/mL. Such a low detection limit was 1000-fold improvements in sensitivity over a conventional ELISA. The results of plasmonic ELISA in syphilis assays of serum specimens from 60 patients agreed with those obtained using a conventional ELISA method. The plasmonic ELISA has characteristics (analyte specific, cost-effective, ease of automatic, low limit of detection) that provide potential for diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of syphilis. 
Line immunoassay and enzyme-linked line immunofiltration assay for simultaneous detection of antibody to two treponemal antigens.	Two enzyme immunoassays, the line immunoassay (LIA) and the enzyme-linked line immunofiltration assay (ELLIFA), were studied for suitability in the serodiagnosis of syphilis. In both assays, antibody to treponemes was detected using the recombinant DNA derived treponemal protein TmpA and the purified axial filament derived from the Reiter treponeme. The antigens were applied in parallel lines onto nitrocellulose membranes. The sensitivity and specificity of both assays were compared with that of the Treponema pallidum hemagglutination assay (TPHA), the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test, and the axial filament and TmpA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The sensitivity and specificity of the LIA and the ELLIFA were found to be comparable to that of the TPHA using serum samples from 65 untreated syphilitic patients, 95 patients treated for syphilis and 60 blood donors, except in the case of the LIA using axial filament. This latter test was slightly less sensitive in primary and early latent syphilis than the TPHA. In the LIA procedure, serum antibodies to two antigens could be detected simultaneously within two hours. This assay may be useful for fieldwork. In the ELLIFA procedure, antibodies to the two antigens could be detected simultaneously within 15 minutes. The ELLIFA procedure may provide a multiple antigen test with a very short assay operation time.
Kinetics of pathogen-specific humoral response in Treponema pallidum-infected young and old inbred strain 2 guinea pigs.	The kinetics of the humoral response to pathogen-specific polypeptides was examined in Treponema pallidum-infected young (3-5 months old) and old (10-20 months old) inbred strain-2 guinea pigs. Sera collected before and at various times after infection were pooled and examined by immunoblotting and two serologic tests (ELISA and FTA) before and after sequential adsorption with CNBr-activated sepharose coupled to normal rabbit proteins and antigens from five nonpathogenic treponemal species. Prior to adsorption the kinetics of the humoral response to T. pallidum antigens did not seem to differ significantly between the two groups. After adsorption, however, a delay in the appearance of detectable antibodies and a milder response to various pathogen-specific polypeptides was observed in the older group. After adsorption, a sharp drop in ELISA-TP, ELISA-TR and FTA titres occurred in both groups. Six months post-infection, between 9 and 10 pathogen-specific polypeptides (97, 57, 47, 45, 43, 39, 37, 33, 17 and 15 kD) were recognized by both groups. The effect of age and levels of natural treponemal antibodies on the clinical symptoms of primary lesions and humoral response to pathogen-specific polypeptides is discussed.
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for detection of immunoglobulin M to nontreponemal and treponemal antigens for the diagnosis of congenital syphilis.	Sera from newborn infants born of mothers with a high risk of syphilis were examined for immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies in two different enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), using either purified flagella from Treponema phagedenis biotype Reiter or the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) antigen as the antigen. All sera were also examined by the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS) test for IgM. Three different groups of patients were studied. Group 1 consisted of 84 women and their newborn infants from a high-risk population for syphilis. Congenital syphilis was diagnosed in one child who had an IgM-positive cord blood specimen in both the ELISA and the FTA-ABS test. Group 2 consisted of 10 mothers and their newborn children. All mothers had positive syphilis-screening tests, and all children had signs of congenital syphilis. All but one child had positive IgM tests. Group 3 consisted of 15 mothers and their newborn children. These mothers had been treated for syphilis late in pregnancy, and all had a positive screening test at delivery. Two of the children had positive IgM tests, probably caused by reactivity after late intrauterine treatment of congenital syphilis. The specificities of the IgM tests were high when evaluated with sera from newborn children without signs of congenital syphilis. Even though IgM rheumatoid factor was found in all of the children tested with definite congenital syphilis, the rheumatoid factor did not cause false-positive results in either the VDRL ELISA or the flagellum ELISA. No significant IgG-IgM competition was noticed in the ELISAs. This study also confirmed that IgA antibodies do not cross the placenta; most newborn children with congenital syphilis were positive in the VDRL ELISA for IgA. Both the VDRL ELISA and the flagellum ELISA are very useful in the diagnosis of congenital syphilis and may be substitute for the FTA-ABS test. The VDRL ELISA for IgM will be especially useful in developing countries with a high incidence of congenital syphilis.
Analysis of the humoral immune response to Treponema pallidum in the different stages of untreated human syphilis.	It has been shown that using treponema-specific and lipoidal assays for the demonstration of antibodies to Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum in pooled sera of syphilitic patients, each stage of the untreated infection can be characterized by a typical immune response as far as specific immunoglobulin M (IgM) and G (IgG) antibody reactivity is concerned. In primary syphilis, IgM antibodies predominate over those of the IgG class. Moreover, IgM antibody reactivity with decreased titres can be detected in the later stages of untreated treponemal infection. Furthermore, it has been shown by using the double antibody radioimmunoprecipitation assay with detergent-solubilized [35S] methionine-labelled Treponema pallidum as antigen followed by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography, that IgM and IgG antibodies in all stages of infection are directed against eight major antigenic proteins of Treponema pallidum with a Mr of 15,500, 33,000, 34,500, 37,000, 41,000, 44,500, 47,000 and 71,000.
Cerebrospinal fluid serology--is its routine use justifiable?	Although neurospyhilis has become a rare disease, requests for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) syphilis serology tests at the Colorado Department of Health have increased in recent years. Because of the low rate of positive results, questionnaires were sent to the physicians who requested these tests to determine the criteria for their use. Neurosyphilis was neither suspected nor an important consideration to rule out in 63 percent of the 337 patients sampled. Of the patients whose ages were specified, more than half were under age 40. No concomitant reports of blood serology were available for 63 percent of the study patients, and only 13 percent of the available blood serology reports indicated reactivity. One of the two patients with positive test results was appropriately treated, but the other patient for whom the test was ordered 'routinely' to rule out neurosyphilis was lost to followup. One-half of the tests were requested by neurologists, neurosurgeons, and orthopedists. The survey findings indicated that most of the CSF serologic tests for syphilis were done without appropriate preliminary testing for patients who had no evidence of syphilis by physicians who perform lumbar punctures as a consequence of their specialties. The authors recommend that use of the test be reviewed in light of the changing epidemiology of the disease. They further suggest that directors of laboratories performing CSF serologic tests are in a unique position to initiate an educational exchange and a consequent change in physicians' behavior.
Serologic study of specimens with borderline FTA-ABS test reactivity.	The treponemal group-specific absorbed fluorescent antibody test (FTA-ABS) does not yield clearly positive or negative results in all instances. This study was designed to analyze those sera showing borderline reactivity, in order to determine whether additional tests may help to resolve serodiagnostic problem cases. FTA-ABS tests on 23,807 sera submitted to the Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene yielded borderline results with 479 specimens (2%). Patients showing inconclusive FTA-ABS test reactivity were equally distributed among older and younger age groups, and 6% of borderline cases were women. Of all the 479 specimens, only five sera (1%) gave a non-specific hemagglutination with the Treponema pallidum microhemagglutination (MHA-TP) test, with 82.5% of the FTA-ABS test borderline sera yielding negative results with the MHA-TP test. Because recent findings had shown atypical false fluorescence with the FTA-ABS test on sera from patients with antinuclear antibody, the fluorescent antinuclear antibody test (FANA) was also performed on specimens inconclusive with the FTA-ABS test. Only seven sera (1.5%) were reactive by the FANA test, suggesting that antinuclear antibody was not a significant cause of borderline FTA-ABS reactions. The implications of these findings to venereal disease serology laboratory practice are discussed.
Competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for Treponema pallidum antibodies.	A competitive enzyme-linked Treponema pallidum immunosorbent assay (CETPIA) was compared with the standard serological tests for syphilis. Of 3081 serum samples submitted, 2883 gave negative results in the CETPIA and the routine screening tests. Positive results were obtained in the CETPIA and in one or more of the specific treponemal tests with 115 samples. Discrepancies in the results of the CETPIA and standard serological tests were found with 83 serum samples, most of these were attributed to biological false positive reactions in the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test. CETPIA may have a role in the serological diagnosis of syphilis.
Statistical relations between blood and cerebrospinal fluid serology in patients with syphilis]	In any case of latent syphilis without conclusive history, an examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is generally recommended. The present paper deals with the question whether particular findings obtained by serologic tests on the blood can supply sufficient proof to rule out any specific involvement of the central nervous system in an individual patient. Serologic investigation on 148 blood-CSF sample pairs revealed striking correlations between several blood and CSF parameters on a high level of statistical significance. Based on blood serology data alone, a multi-dimensional, non-parametric statistical test (the k-nearest-neighbor method) was able to rule out specific involvement of the CSF in more than one third of the patients. We consider our approach useful in certain cases where CSF examination should rather be avoided, especially in patients with impaired general condition due to other diseases. Yet, in any case of neurological irregularity, CSF examination should generally be carried out regardless of the results of blood serology.
Effect of early and late syphilis on central nervous system: cerebrospinal fluid changes and neurological deficit.	Neurological examination and investigation of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was performed on 24 patients with early and 180 patients with late syphilis. In 21 (12%) patients with late syphilis positive CSF treponemal test results and neurological deficits suggestive of symptomatic neurosyphilis were found. Concomitantly all but three patients with neurosyphilis showed one or more of the following abnormal CSF variables: CSF concentration of albumin X 10(3)/serum concentration (albumin ratio) greater than or equal to 7.9; mononuclear cells greater than 5 microliters: ratio of CSF to serum IgG concentrations/ratio of CSF to serum albumin concentrations (IgG index) greater than or equal to 0.7 or of IgM/albumin (IgM index) greater than or equal to 0.1; or oligoclonal CSF immunoglobulins. In 20 (95%) patients with neurosyphilis evidence of the production of treponemal antibodies within the central nervous system (CNS) was shown. Ten (48%) patients with neurosyphilis had been treated previously for late syphilis. These observations emphasise the need to screen for neurosyphilis in patients with late syphilis. Intrathecal production of treponemal antibodies was detected in six (25%) patients with early and 44 (28%) with late syphilis who did not show any neurological deficit. Intrathecal production of treponemal antibodies indicating that the CNS was affected led us to suspect asymptomatic neurosyphilis in these patients. Seventeen (11%) patients with late syphilis but no neurosyphilis and only one (4%) with early syphilis showed additional abnormal CSF variables. Surprisingly, six out of 22 patients with treated early and 20 out of 68 patients with treated late syphilis showed evidence of treponema antibody production within the CNS. We do not know whether these findings indicate that the CNS was affected because of inadequate treatment or merely reflect persistent synthesis of treponemal antibodies associated with cured infection. In one (4%) patient with early and in 21 (13%) with late syphilis but no neurosyphilis abnormal CSF variables in the absence of positive CSF treponemal test results were observed, which excluded syphilitic inflammation of the CNS.
Evaluation of the syphilis Bio-EnzaBead assay for detection of treponemal antibody.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for Treponema pallidum antibody (Syphilis Bio-EnzaBead Kit; Organon Teknika Corp., formerly Litton Bionetics, Kensington, Md.) was compared with the standard fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test for syphilis (indirect fluorescent-antibody confirmatory test; Zeus Scientific Inc., Raritan, N.J.). Six hundred specimens tested in the rapid plasma Reagin card test (Hynson, Westcott and Dunning, Inc., Baltimore, Md.) and microhemagglutination assay for antibodies to T. pallidum (Ames Division, Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind.) were used for comparison testing. One hundred and sixty-two specimens were from either persons with syphilis or persons whose history was unknown but who showed reactive serology, whereas 438 were from persons without syphilis. The reactivity of each serum by the Bio-EnzaBead test was determined visually and from optical density readings. Excellent reproducibility of visual readings was obtained; all results were within +/- 1 gradation of the expected readings in all 60 coded sera tested. Overall agreement between the Bio-EnzaBead and fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test results was 96.3% when read visually and greater than or equal to 95.7% when using optical density readings. Our data indicate that Bio-EnzaBead results read at 405 nm and determined by using the mean antigen optical density reading of the nonreactive control plus 0.025 as the cutoff value provide an overall sensitivity and specificity of 93.0 and 98.6%, respectively, along with the best agreement with the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption assay. Ease of performance and objectivity also contribute toward the acceptability of this assay as an alternative confirmatory test for syphilis.
Humoral response in Treponema pallidum-infected guinea pigs. II. Circulating immune complexes and autoimmune responses.	Guinea pigs of inbred strain 2 and of a strain deficient in complement component 4 (C4D) responded to intradermal infection with Treponema pallidum by production of antibodies to treponemal antigens, normal rabbit serum proteins, fibronectin, and creatine kinase and with formation of circulating immune complexes (IC). IC started to appear at low concentrations 1 mo after infection and increased between 3 and 5 mo post-infection. Antibodies to fibronectin appeared after the second month but were not detectable 30 days later. Antibody activity to creatine kinase was detectable at the fourth month and became significantly higher at 5 mo post-infection. Reinoculation with a dose similar to that used for primary infection caused a significant increase in all antibodies and IC. Dissociation products of IC formed after primary infection consisted predominantly of treponemal antibodies and antigens, whereas IC detected after reinfection consisted predominantly of antibodies and normal rabbit serum proteins. Antibodies to fibronectin and creatine kinase are considered autoantibodies, and the underlying mechanism responsible for their production in syphilis is discussed.
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of antibodies to the venereal disease research laboratory (VDRL) antigen in syphilis.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for detection of immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM to cardiolipin, lecithin, and cholesterol (VDRL [Venereal Disease Research Laboratory] ELISA) is described. The specificity of the VDRL ELISA for IgG and IgM was 99.6 and 99.5%, respectively, with sera from 1,008 persons without syphilis. For a group of patients with false-positive results in traditional nontreponemal tests and for patients with autoimmune diseases, the VDRL ELISA for IgG had a higher specificity than the VDRL ELISA for IgM. The sensitivity for IgG and IgM with 118 sera from patients with untreated syphilis was 96.6 and 94.9%, respectively, which was equivalent to the sensitivities of the traditional nontreponemal tests. The performance of the VDRL ELISA was compared with that of an ELISA that uses cardiolipin as the antigen (cardiolipin ELISA). The VDRL ELISA was significantly more sensitive (P less than or equal to 0.01) than the cardiolipin ELISA with 25 sera from syphilis patients but was less sensitive (P less than or equal to 0.01) with 53 sera from patients with autoimmune diseases. The antibody reactivity in the VDRL ELISA could not be absorbed out by lecithin and cholesterol, and the sera from patients with syphilis did not react in an ELISA that uses cholesterol and lecithin as the antigen. This indicates that cholesterol and lecithin, although not antigenic by themselves, may change the structural form of the epitope on cardiolipin so that it becomes more recognizable for antibodies in syphilis and less recognizable for antibodies in autoimmune diseases. The results of the VDRL ELISA were expressed in percentages of the absorbance value of a positive control. The VDRL ELISA gave, without titration of sera, quantitative results that correlated with the quantitative results of the traditional nontreponemal tests obtained by titration. The VDRL ELISA will be well suited for large-scale testing for syphilis and may replace other nontreponemal tests.
Analysis of sheath and core structures of the axial filament of Treponema pallidum.	Electron microscopy and SDS-PAGE have been used to analyse the polypeptide and antigenic composition of the sheath and core components of the axial filament of Treponema pallidum. The sheath contains a major 37 kDa polypeptide which was solubilized by a combination of trypsin and urea treatments with concurrent loss of binding of anti-37 kDa monoclonal antibody. These studies also indicated some antigenic heterogeneity within the axial filament population. Trypsin treatment alone removed a number of antigenic determinants from the axial filament but left others intact, suggesting differences in their location within the sheath structure. A second 31.5 kDa polypeptide may also be associated with the sheath. The axial filament core comprises at least two components, an antigenically dominant 33.5 kDa polypeptide and a second of 34 kDa. The structure of the axial filament in T. pallidum and Treponema phagedenis biotype Reiterii was similar, but antigenic cross-reactivity of sheath and core components was incomplete.
Production of murine monoclonal antibodies to the major axial filament polypeptide of Treponema pallidum.	A suitable immunization protocol for the stimulation of a murine antibody response to the axial filament polypeptides of Treponema pallidum was established. A range of monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) specific for different epitopes of the major axial filament polypeptide (37 kDa) was generated which demonstrated diversity in their ability to react with other treponemal species. Immunogold electron microscopy located the 37 kDa antigen on the surface of the axial filament structure. The early appearance of specific antibody to this polypeptide in infected man and rabbit indicates that such Mabs are potentially useful for the diagnosis of early syphilis.
Immunoglobulin G subclasses of fluorescent anti-Treponema pallidum antibodies: evidence for sequential development of specific anti-T. pallidum immunoglobulin G responses in patients with early syphilis.	The development of immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclass-specific anti-Treponema pallidum antibodies during the course of syphilis in humans was studied with sera from 50 untreated male patients. The patients were divided into five diagnosis groups. In the fluorescent treponemal antibody test, which delineates the presence of cross-reacting antibodies, as well as specific antitreponema antibodies, IgG1, IgG2, and IgG3 subclass antibodies were already present during the seronegative primary stage. Specific antibodies, which were detected by the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test, were first present during the serotype-variable primary stage. These antibodies were almost exclusively of the IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses. In later stages, antibodies of other subclasses were detectable. Titration of IgG1 antitreponema antibodies in three electrophoretically different IgG fractions revealed an asymmetric distribution in these fractions during primary syphilis. The antibodies were largely confined to the most basic fraction during primary syphilis. A sudden change in the distribution was noted between the end of the primary stage and the secondary stage; an even distribution of IgG1 antitreponema antibodies existed in the late latent stage. These findings confirm and extend previous results from our laboratory. The development of antibodies detected by both tests is discussed in terms of a sequential stimulation of the immune system due to the presence of an extracellular layer covering the treponemas or, alternatively, in terms of a suppression of the immune response during early syphilis.
The antigenic interrelationship between the endoflagella of Treponema phagedenis biotype Reiter and Treponema pallidum Nichols strain. I. Treponemicidal activity of cross-reactive endoflagellar antibodies against T. pallidum.	Treponemicidal activity against Treponema pallidum, Nichols strain, by anti-endoflagellar antibodies and the presence of antigenic interrelationships between the endoflagella of Treponema phagedenis biotype Reiter (TPR) and T. pallidum have been demonstrated. SDS-PAGE profiles of purified endoflagella from both organisms were similar, identifying five polypeptide bands for TPR (37,000, 33,000 doublet, 30,000, and 27,000 daltons) and five polypeptide bands for T. pallidum (35,000, 33,000 doublet, 30,000, and 27,000 daltons). Antiserum against TPR endoflagella identified identical bands on Western blots of TPR, T. pallidum, and the respective endoflagellar preparations. Western blots confirmed the presence of antibodies in normal human serum (NHS) against the 33,000 dalton treponemal endoflagellar proteins. The complement-dependent treponemicidal activity of NHS against T. pallidum was completely removed by absorption with purified TPR endoflagella. Furthermore, rabbit antisera against TPR endoflagella were reactive in the Treponema pallidum immobilization (TPI) test. These findings demonstrate that anti-endoflagellar antibodies are treponemicidal against T. pallidum. A possible mechanism for this activity is discussed in relation to the subsurface location of endoflagella.
Seroepidemiological study on sexually transmitted diseases and hepatitis B in African promiscuous heterosexuals in relation to HTLV-III infection.	A seroepidemiological study was performed on HTLV-III, T. pallidum, C. trachomatis and Hepatitis B virus (HBV), in Butare, Rwanda, among 33 female prostitutes, 25 male customers of prostitutes, and 60 male and female controls. As compared with female controls the prostitutes had a higher prevalence of antibodies to HTLV-III (29/33 versus 4/33, p less than 0.001), T. pallidum (TPHA: 27/33 versus 6/33, p less than 0.001; RPR: 19/33 versus 2/33, p less than 0.001; FTA-Abs: 27/33 versus 5/33, p less than 0.001) and C. trachomatis (IgG IF: 31/33 versus 13/33, p less than 0.001). HBV serological markers were more often detected in the prostitutes than in the female controls (31/33 versus 18/33, p less than 0.001) although HBs antigen carriage rate was similar in both groups. As compared with male controls, the male customers of prostitutes had more frequently detectable antibodies to HTLV-III (7/25 versus 2/27, p = 0.05), and a positive RPR (10/25 versus 1/27, p less than 0.01). Among the 118 individuals studied, odds ratios and trend analysis disclosed a significant association between HTLV-III seropositivity and a positive TPHA, RPR, FTA-Abs, Chlamydia IgG IF test and serological markers to HBV. No association was found between HTLV-III seropositivity and HBs Ag carriage. This study suggests that HTLV-III has to be considered as an infectious agent transmitted among promiscuous Central African heterosexuals by sexual contact and/or parenteral contact with unsterile needles used for STD treatments.
Identification of Treponema pallidum antigens: comparison with a nonpathogenic treponeme.	The major antigens of Treponema pallidum, Nichols strain were examined by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blotting techniques. Organisms were extracted from rabbit testes, purified by differential centrifugation, washed, and disrupted by sonication before solubilization in SDS buffer, SDS-PAGE analysis on 12.5% gels revealed at least 35 distinguishable polypeptides with molecular weights between 14,000 and 100,000. Proteins were electrophoretically transferred from gels to nitrocellulose paper and were stained with pooled rabbit anti-T. pallidum serum (IRS) and 125I-protein A. At least eight distinct antigenic molecules were revealed, with the major component residing at 48,000 daltons. Extensive washing of T. pallidum before solubilization did not alter the antigenic profile. Five molecules with common treponemal antigenic determinants were identified both by staining blots of T. phagedenis, biotype Reiter with IRS and by staining blots of T. pallidum with rabbit anti-Reiter antiserum. Three putative T. pallidum-specific antigens were identified by staining T. pallidum with IRS that had been extensively adsorbed with Reiter treponemes.
Relationship between neurological features and intrathecal synthesis of IgG antibodies to Treponema pallidum in untreated and treated human neurosyphilis.	In syphilitic patients with or without CNS involvement the correlation of Treponema-specific IgG titre per milligram total IgG in CSF and serum (ITPA index) is a dependable source of information on the synthesis of treponemal IgG antibodies in the CNS. This index also provides a more reliable definition of asymptomatic neurosyphilis. Further, a discrimination between Treponema-specific and Treponema-non-specific IgG synthesis in the CNS is possible. Of 261 patients with clinical symptoms of neurosyphilis, 82% had a local production of treponemal IgG antibodies as shown by an elevated ITPA index. In patients with neurosyphilis and intrathecal synthesis of Treponema-specific IgG antibodies, 94% had oligoclonal IgG in the CSF. Comparison of different CSF protein alteration groups in untreated and treated neurosyphilitic patients showed that early diagnosis (and early treatment) led to improvement of the impairment of the blood-CSF barrier and reduction of the immune reaction in the CNS. However, synthesis of treponemal IgG antibodies in the CNS could persist as a 'scar syndrome' even after adequately cured infection.
Asymptomatic neurosyphilis.	Lumbar puncture was performed in 18 patients with latent syphilis to rule out asymptomatic neurosyphilis. In seven patients the CSF findings were abnormal. The parameters used in CSF were cell count, total protein, immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, IgM), IgG index, and serologic tests for syphilis (VDRL, Kolmer, RPCF and FTA-ABS, including monospecific IgG and IgM conjugates). In three patients, the CSF findings 7-10 months after treatment are also given. Penicillin levels in serum and CSF were determined in two patients after aqueous procaine penicillin G im with and without oral probenecid. The effect of blood contamination on the differentiation between normal and abnormal CSF may not be significant.
Treponema pallidium IgM enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (TP-IgM-ELISA). Determination of organism-specific Treponema IgM antibodies in the serum of syphilis patients with and without central nervous system involvement of the infection]	For demonstration of treponemal IgM antibodies in sera and CSF taken from 56 syphilitic patients with or without involvement of the CNS in the infection, comparative studies have been performed making use of the 19S(IgM)-FTA-ABS test and a TP-IgM-ELISA. Compared with the 19S(IgM)-FTA-ABS, the TP-IgM-ELISA has a specificity of 97% and a sensitivity of 93%. With regard to qualitative investigation of serum samples, both tests showed nearly equivalent results. In 10 out of 16 CSF samples taken from patients with untreated neurosyphilis, a treponemal IgM antibody could be proved by TP-IgM-ELISA. According to these findings, this assay seems to be a reliable test system for demonstration of treponemal IgM antibodies not only in serum but also in CSF.
The FTA-abs test in the diagnosis of congenital syphilis]	Present survey has analysed the results obtained from 13 children whose FTA-abs (IgG) test proved to be positive. For assessing their anti-Treponemal and reaginic antibodies, the RPR, passive hemagglutination (MHA-TP) and FTA-abs trials were carried out, the existence of specific IgG and IgM being noticed from the latter. Out of the 13 samples subject to our analyses, 7 showed some specific IgM antibodies, with the existence of a congenital syphilis being clinically assessed from three of them, whereas the remaining 6 samples only showed some IgG antibodies. The need for an early diagnosis during the first and third quarters of pregnancy is indicated, through a reaginic (RPR o VDRL) trial or a treponemic (MHA-TP) one, as well as the assessing of anti-Treponema pallidum antibodies in the umbilical cord blood, where a positive luetic serology appears to be the case during the period of pregnancy.
IgM diagnosis in syphilis serology]	The methods in use for the detection of T pallidum-specific antibodies in human sera are the 19S-(IgM-)FTA-ABS and the IgM-SPHA test. Encouraging results have been obtained with the IgM-ELISA-TP technique using new antigens. The development of the different methods up to the present time are described. The margin of error is low, 3.4% of the 19S-(IgM-)-FTA-ABS results are false-positive and 3.6% false-negative, the respective figures for the IgM-SPAH test are 1% (false-positive) and 8% (false-negative). The agreement with the clinical diagnosis is excellent in the secondary stage (94 to 95% reactivity), the reasons for lower rates in the primary and late phases are discussed. The half-life period of reactivity after adequate treatment amounts to 2 to 6 months in all stages except for the IgM-SPHA test in neurosyphilis, where reactivity remains for 24 months (mean value) due to the production of autoantibodies.
Recent observations on the serology of syphilis.	Routine screening of 404 742 sera by the automated micro-haemagglutination assay (AMHA-TP) and the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test showed that 9848 specimens gave a reactive result to one of the three assays. Reactive results were confirmed by the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS) test. The possibility of false-positive results varied from 0.04-0.38% of all specimens or from 1.7-15.7% of reactive sera. The VDRL test failed to detect reactivity in 56.54% of sera from patients who had previously been infected with Treponema pallidum. The importance of routine testing by the AMHA-TP is illustrated by the detection of four patients with mesaortitis and two with active neurosyphilis among a selected group of 54 patients who had non-reactive results to the VDRL test. Testing of cerebrospinal fluid specimens by the AMHA-TP test produced more specific results than by the other two tests.
Non-specific positive test results to syphilis in dermatological diseases.	Sera from 3028 patients attending a dermatological clinic were examined by the fluorescent treponemal antibody (FTA) test, the fluorescent antibody-absorbed (FTA-ABS) test, the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test, and Kolmer's test. Eleven cases of late syphilis were found. Sera from 63 (2.08%) of the remaining 3017 patients showed non-specific results; these were found more frequently in patients with pyodermas, neoplasms, acne, mycoses, crural ulceration, and psoriasis than in those with other diseases. No non-specific results were observed in patients with bullous skin diseases and only a few in patients with viral skin diseases and chronic lupus erythematosus. The test producing the most non-specific results was the FTA test, followed by the FTA-ABS test, the VDRL test, and Kolmer's test.
Antitreponemal IgE in early syphilis.	Using a solid-phase radioimmunoassay technique, mean serum IgE concentrations were found to be raised in patients with early syphilis. Antitreponemal specificity of the IgE response was investigated by the fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test using a fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labelled antiserum against the Fc-fragment of human IgE. Validity of this test procedure was assessed by blocking experiments. The results provide evidence of the antitreponemal specificity of the IgE response in syphilis and indicate a possible role for antitreponemal IgE in the pathogenesis of the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction and in the immune-complex origin of some of the lesions of secondary syphilis.
Treponema-specific and antilipoidal 19S(IgM) antibodies in penicillin-treated and untreated rabbits after infection with Treponema pallidum.	The titres of treponema-specific and antilipoidal 19S(IgG) antibodies were determined in rabbits infected intratesticularly with Treponema pallidum. One group of rabbits was treated with penicillin the other served as control. Using different serological tests it was shown that 19S(IgM) antibodies were still detectable eight months after infection at about the same titres in both groups. In contrast, 19S(IgM) antibody titres in patients with syphilis became undetectable within three to six months after penicillin treatment. It is suggested therefore that the rabbit is not a reliable model for studying the effect of penicillin in human T pallidum infections.
The SPHA technic (solid phase hemadsorption) in syphilis serology. A year's experience in routine laboratory procedure]	The first results in routine syphilis serology with the new solid-phase hemadsorption assay (SPHA) are presented. Sera (63019) were screened by the VDRL test and by the automated hemagglutination assay with Treponema pallidum antigen (AMHA-TP). Samples reactive to one or both of these tests were further examined by the FTA-ABS test, the IgM-FTA-ABS test, the 19S IgM-FTA-ABS test (IgM-FTA-ABS test performed with the 19S fraction of the serum after gelfiltration) and the IgM-SPHA test. IgM-SPHA reactive sera derived from patients who were in the early stage or in the phase of latency (of undefinable duration), further from patients with active neurosyphilis and from 26 patients after reinfection. Erroneous results in the IgM-FTA-ABS test caused by a competitive inhibition of IgM by IgG can be eliminated by the IgM-SPHA method. The agreement between 19S IgM-FTA-ABS test and IgM-SPHA test is above 96.3%. As compared to the fluorescence test, the IgM-SPHA test is simpler to perform and can be easily automated.
Murine monoclonal antibodies specific for virulent Treponema pallidum (Nichols).	Murine anti-Treponema pallidum (Nichols) lymphocyte hybridoma cell lines secreting monoclonal antibodies against a variety of treponemal antigens have been generated. Hybridomas isolated were of three major types: those that were directed specifically against T. pallidum antigens, those that were directed against treponemal group antigens (as evidenced by their cross-reactivity with T. phagedenis biotype Reiter antigens), and those that cross-reacted with both treponemal as well as rabbit host testicular tissue antigens. The majority (31 of 39 clones) of these anti-T. pallidum hybridomas, which produced monoclonal antibodies of mouse isotypes immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1), IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3 or IgM, were directed specifically against T. pallidum and not other treponemal or rabbit antigens tested by radioimmunoassay. Four of these T. pallidum-specific hybridomas secreted monoclonal antibodies with greater binding affinity for "aged" rather than freshly isolated intact T. pallidum cells, suggesting a possible specificity for "unmasked" surface antigens of T. pallidum. Six anti-T. pallidum hybridomas produced complement-fixing monoclonal antibodies (IgG2a, IgG2b, or IgM) that were capable of immobilizing virulent treponemes in the T. pallidum immobilization (TPI) test; these may represent biologically active monoclonal antibodies against treponemal surface antigens. Three other hybridomas secreted monoclonal antibodies which bound to both T. pallidum and T. phagedenis biotype Reiter antigens, thus demonstrating a possible specificity for treponemal group antigens. Five hybridoma cell lines were also isolated which produced IgM monoclonal antibodies that cross-reacted with all treponemal and rabbit host testicular tissue antigens employed in the radioimmunoassays. This report describes the construction and characteristics of these hybridoma cell lines. The potential applications of the anti-T. pallidum monoclonal antibodies are discussed.
Expression of Treponema pallidum antigens in Escherichia coli K-12.	A colony bank of recombinant plasmids harboring Treponema pallidum DNA inserts has been established in Escherichia coli K-12. By using an in situ immunoassay, we identified four E. coli clones that expressed T. pallidum antigens. Thus, recombinant DNA technology may provide powerful new tools for studying the pathogenesis of T. pallidum infection.
Cognitive change after treatment for neurosyphilis. Correlation with CSF laboratory measures.	The decision to re-treat a patient with neurosyphilis is usually based on the clinical response, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), cell count, and CSF protein concentration. The value of the CSF Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test on its own as a marker for treatment response in neurosyphilis has not been established. To assess the usefulness of CSF markers for continuing infection, 12 patients with neurosyphilis were reevaluated 1 year after treatment. Change in cognitive functioning, as assessed by the Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE), was correlated with the CSF cell count, protein content, IgG index, and VDRL test titer at follow-up. A significant negative correlation was obtained between 1 year improvement in MMSE score and CSF VDRL titers at both the 6- and the 12-month follow-up examinations, and with the 6-month CSF protein concentration. These findings suggest that the CSF VDRL titer may be an indicator of continued Treponema pallidum activity in patients without obvious clinical deterioration.
Prevalence of antitreponemal antibodies in 3,098 female prostitutes in Mexico City]	This paper describes a serological survey applied to 3098 female commercial sex workers, in order to determine the prevalence of syphilis. The women attend regularly an AIDS orientation center sponsored by CONASIDA in Mexico City. The laboratory tests included the rapid plasma reagin assay (presumptive analysis) and the fluorescent treponemal antibody-absorption technique (confirmatory test). No primary syphilis cases were detected and the prevalence of latent asymptomatic syphilis was 8.2% (255/3098). The sensitivity and specificity of the presumptive test compared to the confirmatory test were 74% and 98% respectively, and the positive predictive value was 77% and the negative predictive value 98%. All seropositive women received the standard penicillin treatment for syphilis. Considerations of importance are offered regarding interpretation and usefulness of this kind of research.
Scintigraphic diagnosis of syphilitic lesions in rabbits by radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies specific for Treponema pallidum.	Immunoscintigraphy with radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies has been widely used to detect solid tumours. The purpose of this study was to investigate its potential for the specific localization of syphilitic lesions. F(ab')2 fragments were prepared from murine monoclonal antibodies against Treponema pallidum produced in our laboratory and labelled with 131I. Bilateral testicular infections were created in rabbits by inoculation with T. pallidum or Staphylococcus aureus. Seven to 10 days after inoculation, radiolabelled antibodies were injected intravenously. Serial gamma images were then taken 2 h after the injection and at 24 h intervals thereafter. Beginning as early as 2 h post-injection, the testicles could be visualized with either specific or non-specific antibodies. Gamma images in the monoclonal antibody-treated, T. pallidum-infected group persisted up to 48 h post-injection. Lesions were not discernible from background in the S. aureus-infected group injected with the monoclonal antibody and the S. aureus-infected and T. pallidum-infected groups injected with the polyclonal antibody at 24 h post-injection or later. Therefore, due to its ability to differentiate between specific and non-specific antibody-generated images from 24 h post-injection, immunoscintigraphy using monoclonal antibodies specific for T. pallidum may be employed as one of the methods to diagnose difficult cases of syphilitic internal organ involvement as well as syphilis infection in seronegative HIV-infected patients.
Seroprevalences of Toxoplasma, malaria, rubella, cytomegalovirus, HIV and treponemal infections among pregnant women in Cotonou, Republic of Benin.	Seroprevalences for toxoplasmosis, malaria, rubella, cytomegalovirus, HIV and treponemal infections were evaluated among 211 pregnant women residing in the Cotonou area, Republic of Benin. One hundred and thirteen women (53.6%) had toxoplasma antibodies, 185 (87.7%) malaria antibodies and 181 (85.8%) rubella antibodies. Among the 205 (97.2%) women with cytomegalovirus antibodies, 6 presented recent or current infection. No HIV seropositivity was detected. Five (2.4%) of these women had a positive treponematosis serology corresponding to previous infection or reinfection. These results were compared with previous studies conducted in Africa. Routine serological screening should be recommended in young age and in pregnancy for rubella, only in pregnant women for HIV and toxoplasma infections, in order to control their possible consequences on women and newborns.
Failure of penicillin treatment of yaws on Karkar Island, Papua New Guinea.	The endemic treponematosis yaws remains a significant cause of morbidity in many tropical countries, despite mass treatment campaigns to eradicate it. An outbreak of yaws in Marup village on Karkar Island, Papua New Guinea in 1988 provided an opportunity to monitor the outcome of treatment with penicillin over an extended period. Thirty-nine children with clinical yaws (6% of 632 examined) were monitored clinically and serologically, for nearly two years after mass treatment of all villagers with the World Health Organization recommended dosages of benzathine penicillin. Lesions resolved within one month of treatment in all but four (10%) children, three of whom were initially successfully retreated. Before treatment, the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test result was reactive in 67% of the children and treponema-specific IgM antibody test results were reactive in 41%. Within six months of treatment, of those reactive, the VDRL titer decreased significantly in 25 (96%) of 26 and IgM antibody test results became negative in 13 (81%) of 16 children. However, by the end of follow-up, 11 (28%) of the 39 children had developed clinical and/or serologic evidence of relapse. In these children, response to further treatment was slow and, in three, evidence of active infection persisted or recurred, despite repeated courses. Exogenous reinfection was unlikely in this isolated community, in which the occurrence of yaws was closely monitored after universal treatment. Treatment failure was most likely to have been due to reduced susceptibility to penicillin of Treponema pallidum subsp. pertenue.
Treponemal specific tests for the serodiagnosis of syphilis. Syphilis and HIV Study Group.	To determine the rate of concordance of the Microhemagglutination Assay for Antibodies to T. pallidum (MHA-TP) and the Fluorescent Treponemal Antibody-Absorption test (FTA-ABS) prior to therapy in patients with early stage syphilis and to assess the incidence of and associated risk factors for seroreversion of these treponemal specific tests during the first year after therapy for early syphilis.
Passive particle agglutination test for screening of Treponema Pallidum antibodies in blood bank routine.	In most laboratories and blood banks, the TP.PA test has replaced the TPHA test for the screening of Treponema pallidum antibodies. In this study we show that the 1:20 serum dilution should be used to discriminate between negative and positive samples instead of the recommended 1:40 dilution, thus increasing sensitivity without a significant loss of specificity.
