Triatoma bassolsae sp. n. from Mexico, with a key to species of phyllosoma complex (Hemiptera, Reduviidae)]	According to the descriptions of five closely related species of the genus Triatoma Laporte, 1832: T. phyllosoma (Burmeister, 1835), T. pallidipennis (Stal, 1872), T. picturata Usinger, 1939, T. longipennis Usinger, 1939 and T. mazzottii Usinger, 1941 and further published studies, these species could be included in a "specific complex" named as the species formerly described. All these species are typical from Mexico and another species was found in the same country, in the State of Puebla: Triatoma bassolsae sp. n. This species was morphologically compared with the other five of the "phyllosoma" complex, including the external male genitalia. The most important characters used to separate T. bassolsae from T. phyllosoma (which is the most similar to the other species) are the morphometric relationships on the head, with a longer anteocular region and a significant longer second rostral segment, a long and conspicuous pilosity in different areas of the body and specially on the head, and the characters of the anterolateral, lateral and discal tubercles of the pronotum, very long and sharp in the new species. The male genitalia has several differences between T. bassolsae and T. phyllosoma specially significant on the surface of the endosome process and on the branches of the phallosome support, separated at the apex in the new species. Types and paratypes are incorporated in the respective institutions in Mexico DF and Rio de Janeiro.
Isolation and characterization of a cDNA encoding for a lysozyme from the gut of the reduviid bug Triatoma infestans.	We have isolated and characterised a Triatoma infestans cDNA encoding a lysozyme. A 174-bp fragment was amplified by PCR using degenerate oligodeoxyribonucleotide primers derived from the known amino acid sequences of lysozyme from other insects. This PCR fragment was used to screen a cDNA gut library of T. infestans. A clone containing the 3'-end of the lysozyme cDNA (219 bp) was isolated and sequenced. RACE was used to amplify the 5'-end of the lysozyme cDNA. After sequencing the complete lysozyme cDNA, the deduced 417 amino acid sequence showed high identity (40-50%) with other chicken-type lysozymes. The amino acid residues responsible for the catalytic activity and the binding of the substrate were essentially conserved. The expression pattern of the lysozyme gene in bugs at different molting and feeding states showed that this gene was upregulated in the digestive tract directly after the molt and after feeding. Additionally, this lysozyme gene was expressed differently in the different regions of the digestive tract, strongly in the cardia and stomach, the anterior regions of the midgut, and only traces of lysozyme mRNA could be detected in the small intestine, the posterior region of the midgut.
Distribution of serotonin in the central nervous system of the blood-feeding heteropteran, Triatoma infestans (Heteroptera: Reduviidae).	The distribution of serotonin was studied in the Triatoma infestans central nervous system by using immunocytochemistry. Serotonin immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were observed in the brain, subesophageal ganglion, and thoracic ganglia. In the brain, serotonin-like immunoreactivity was detected in a limited number of somata, which gave rise to an extensive network of labeled neurites in patterned as well as in nonglomerular neuropils. Immunolabeled perikarya were observed in the optic lobe and in the anteromedial and caudolateral soma rinds of the protocerebrum. Deutocerebral immunoreactive somata were mainly found in the medial layer surrounding the antennal lobe glomeruli, as well as in relationship to the antennal mechanosensory and motor center. The subesophageal ganglion contained serotonin immunoreactive perikarya of variable sizes and moderate to low density of positive fibers. In the prothoracic ganglion, immunoreactive somata were detected near the cephalic connectives as well as in its caudal end. Serotonin immunoreactive somata and fibers were observed in the posterior ganglion of the thorax, with the abdominal neuromeres harboring the highest number of immunolabeled perikarya. These results show that there is a widespread unique serotonergic system in the CNS of Triatoma infestans and suggest that the indolamine could act as a neuromodulator or as a neurohormone.
Changes associated with laboratory rearing in antennal sensilla patterns of Triatoma infestans, Rhodnius prolixus, and Rhodnius pallescens (Hemiptera, Reduviidae, Triatominae).	We examined changes in the array of antennal sensilla of three species of Triatominae (Triatoma infestans, Rhodnius prolixus, and R. pallescens) following their establishment for different periods in laboratory culture. In each case, the laboratory colonies were compared with conspecific samples taken directly from the field, by quantitative analysis of the sensilla arrays on the three distal segments of the antenna in terms of the densities of three types of chemoreceptors (basiconics and thick and thin walled trichoids) and one type of mechanoreceptor (bristles). Sensilla densities were compared by ANOVA or non-parametric tests, and by multivariate discriminant analysis. Strains of the same species reared in different laboratories showed significant differences in their sensilla arrays, especially when compared to field-collected material from the same geographic origin. A Bolivian strain of T. infestans reared in the laboratory for 15 years and fed at monthly intervals, showed greatest differences from its conspecific wild forms, especially in terms of reductions in the number of chemoreceptors. By contrast, an Argentine strain of T. infestans reared for 25 years in the laboratory and fed weekly, showed a relative increase in the density of mechanoreceptors. A Colombian strain of R. prolixus reared for 20 years and fed weekly or fortnightly, showed only modest differences in the sensilla array when compared to its wild populations from the same area. However, a Colombian strain of R. pallescens reared for 12 years and fed fortnightly, did show highly significant reductions in one form of chemoreceptor compared to its conspecific wild populations. For all populations, multivariate analysis clearly discriminated between laboratory and field collected specimens, suggesting that artificial rearing can lead to modifications in the sensory array. This not only supports the idea of morphological plasticity in these species, but also suggests caution in the use of long-established laboratory material for experimental studies designed to extrapolate the natural behaviour and physiology of these species.
Dispersive flight by Triatoma infestans under natural climatic conditions in Argentina.	Male and female T. infestans were released on two consecutive nights in the salinas of Cordoba Province, Argentina, when air temperatures during the flying period averaged 28.5 degrees C. 136 males (43% of the total released) and 170 females (57%) flew on the first night, and 6 males (18%) and 7 females (27%) on the second. Of these, we recovered 23 males and 14 females within 100 m, and a further female within 200 m, all from the first night's release. The remainder appear to have flown more than 100 m and possibly more than 200 m. In support of this conclusion 4 male and 5 female bugs were recovered in an abandoned brick house 550 m from the release point. Since the proportion of bugs apparently flying more than 200 m is considerably greater than that deduced from previous experiments at lower temperatures (Lehane & Schofield, 1981) it is possible that temperature influences not only the proportion of bugs flying but also the distance flown. Flight appears to be affected by wind speed. On the first night, when there was negligible wind, 43% of male and 57% of female bugs flew. On the second night, with winds gusting at 4-5 m/s, only 18% of the male and 27% of the female bugs flew.
Assessment of Triatoma dimidiata dispersal in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico by morphometry and microsatellite markers.	In the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico, the main vector of Chagas disease is Triatoma dimidiata. Field studies suggest that natural transmission occurs through transient and seasonal invasion of houses by sylvatic/peridomestic triatomines, rather than through persistent domiciliated bug populations. We investigated the genetic structure of T. dimidiata populations, using morphometry and microsatellite markers, to assess dispersal of individuals in this triatomine species and to understand the dynamics of domestic infestation. We observed low phenotypic and genetic differentiation among populations from different villages, with an FST of only 0.0553, which suggested a weak but significant population structure at this level. Similarly low but significant differences were observed among populations from the same village but different biotopes (sylvatic, peridomestic, and domestic), with FST values ranging from 0.0096 to 0.0455. These data suggested elevated dispersal of bugs between biotopes (Nm = 5-25), which was confirmed by likelihood and Bayesian assignment tests. A proportion of bugs collected within domiciles were significantly assigned to peridomestic and sylvatic areas. This study showed that T. dimidiata has important dispersal capabilities that can explain the seasonal pattern of domicile infestation by peridomestic and sylvatic bugs. Therefore, dispersal should be taken into account in the design of effective vector control strategies.
Phylogenetic and phenotypic relationships among Triatoma carcavalloi (Hemiptera: Reduviidae: Triatominae) and related species collected in domiciles in Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil.	Triatoma carcavalloi is considered a rare Chagas disease vector often collected inside domiciles in Rio Grande do Sul State. In this Brazilian state, T. carcavalloi has been collected in the same ecotope (rock piles) with two other species (T. rubrovaria and T. circummaculata), with which it also shares morphological characteristics. Previous morphological studies placed T. carcavalloi in the same species complex ("infestans complex") and subcomplex ("rubrovaria subcomplex") as T. rubrovaria, whereas T. circummaculata was placed in the "circummaculata complex." The phylogeny of a group composed of 16 species of triatomines was reevaluated with the inclusion of T. carcavalloi by Bayesian analysis using mtDNA sequences of subunits 12S and 16S of the ribosomal RNA, and the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) genes. The phenotypic relationship among T. carcavalloi and related triatomines was also inferred from morphometrics. Phylogenetic results indicate that T. carcavalloi is a sister species of T. rubrovaria, and both were recovered as closely related to T. circummaculata. Morphometric studies confirmed the closeness among T. carcavalloi, T. rubrovaria, and T. circummaculata, prompting the placement of the latter species in the "infestans complex" and "rubrovaria subcomplex."
Oxidative stress, photodamage and the role of screening pigments in insect eyes.	Using red-eyed mutant triatomine bugs (Hemiptera: Reduvidae), we tested the hypothesis of an alternative function of insect screening pigments against oxidative stress. To test our hypothesis, we studied the morphological and physiological changes associated with the mutation. We found that wild-type eyes possess a great amount of brown and red screening pigment inside the primary and secondary pigment cells as well as in the retinular cells. Red-eyed mutants, however, have only scarce red granules inside the pigmentary cells. We then compared the visual sensitivity of red-eyed mutants and wild types by measuring the photonegative responses of insects reared in light:dark cycles [12 h:12 h light:dark (LD)] or constant darkness (DD). Finally, we analyzed both the impact of oxidative stress associated with blood ingestion and photodamage of UV light on the eye retina. We found that red-eyed mutants reared in DD conditions were the most sensitive to the light intensities tested. Retinae of LD-reared mutants were gradually damaged over the life cycle, while for DD-reared insects retinae were conserved intact. No retinal damage was observed in non-fed mutants exposed to UV light for 2 weeks, whereas insects fed on blood prior to UV exposure showed clear signs of retinal damage. Wild-type insects exposed to UV light showed a marked increase in the amount and density of screening pigments. 
