Randomized trial of adjuvant therapy for "high risk" primary malignant melanoma.	Retrospective pathological classification of 213 patients with malignant melanoma identified a group at high risk of recurrence (25% developed recurrence in 12 months, 50% by 5 years) after resection for apparent cure. Using these criteria, 70 patients were identified after resection of all apparent disease as being at high risk for recurrent melanoma. They were randomly assigned to one of the three adjuvant treatment arms: chemotherapy with dimethyl triazeno imidazole carboxamide (DTIC), immunotherapy with bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), or combined chemoimmunotherapy. Six of 20 patients receiving DTIC developed recurrence (30%) and four died (20%). Five of 28 patients receiving BCG developed recurrence (18%) and two died (7.5%). There have been no recurrences or deaths in 22 patients receiving combined chemoimmunotherapy. In the prevention of early recurrence, the combined therapy arm was significantly superior to both the immunotherapy arm (p less than 0.05) and the chemotherapy arm (p less than 0.01). In terms of survival, combined therapy also was superior to chemotherapy alone (p less than 0.05).
Effect of cobalt-60 gamma rays and DTIC (5-(3,3 dimethyl-1-triazeno)-imidazole-r-carboxamide) on human malignant melanomas grown in athymic nude mice.	The effects of 60Co gamma rays and DTIC on two human malignant melanomas, inoculated and passed serially in athymic mutant nude mice, were studied in vivo. Dose-response curves determined after single exposures to 60Co gamma radiation indicate that human malignant melanomas remain radioresistant after transplantation in mutant nude mice. A fractionated irradiation régime, used in the treatment of patients suffering from malignant melanomas, had a considerable effect but did not cure. A corresponding treatment régime with DTIC inhibited the tumour growth, but less effectively than 60Co gamma rays. These two treatments combined were more effective than either alone. The results obtained show no disagreement with results from clinical practice regarding treatment of disseminated malignant melanomas. This suggests that human malignant tissue, transplanted to mutant nude mice, retains its properties with respect to response to therapy. The mutant nude mouse may therefore be valuable in developing new treatment régimes for cancer.
Effect of chemotherapy and immunotherapy on tumor-specific immunity in melanoma.	The effects of chemotherapy, with nitrosoureas or dimethyl-triazeno-imidazole-carboxamide (DTIC), or immunotherapy with Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), on cell-mediated immunity (CMI), and serum blocking factor (BF) to melanoma cells were studied in 23 patients. Studies were performed with autologous or allogenic melanoma target cells obtained from recent biopsy, in 16 mm diameter plastic wells. Assays for lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity and BF were performed at weekly intervals over the course of 3-4 mo, with some studies extending beyond 3 yr. The specificity of cytotoxicity was good with these methods. Nine patients given nitrosoureas, predominantly methyl-chloroethyl-cyclohexyl-nitrosourea, showed a transient decline in CMI from 42.2 to 14% 3 wk after administration of a single dose of the agent, with a rapid recovery within 1 week. 10 patients given 5-day courses of DTIC at 3-wk intervals showed no decline in CMI after two courses, and 7 of the 10 had no decline even after three courses. Three of the four patients who achieved a remission lost BF previously present: BF reappeared in both patients studied during a subsequent relapse. BCG intradermally or intralesionally elevated CMI within 2 mo after initiation of therapy, but despite continuation of the injections CMI returned to base line in all but two of the nine patients studied. These results indicate that chemotherapy for melanoma with nitrosoureas or DTIC at these schedules is not profoundly immunosuppressive towards tumor-specific immunity, as measured by our procedures. Putative immunotherapy with BCG at these schedules was likewise only transiently stimulatory.
