Orientation behaviour of the blood-sucking bug triatoma infestans to short-chain fatty acids: synergistic effect of L-lactic acid and carbon dioxide.	The role of short-chain fatty acids in the host-seeking behaviour of Triatoma infestans larvae was investigated using a locomotion compensator. Several short-chain fatty acids were tested alone over a wide range of doses, or in combination with L-lactic acid (L-LA; 100 microg). Bugs showed no attractive response to single carboxylic acids, but when L-LA was added to airstreams carrying specific intensities of either propionic (C3; 100 microg), butyric (C4; 1 microg) or valeric acid (C5; 1 microg), these mixtures elicited an attractive response, evincing a synergistic effect. No orientation response was observed when caproic acid (C6) was offered with L-LA at the doses tested. Two blends were created: (1) C3, C4 and C5 combined at the effective doses when added with L-LA [C3C4C5 (1)], and (2) C3, C4 and C5 combined at a third of those intensities [C3C4C5 (2)]. Both blends were tested alone, with L-LA (100 microg), with a sub-threshold concentration of CO(2) (300 p.p.m. above the ambient level), and combined with both compounds together. Oriented responses of bugs were only observed with the blend (2) added with L-LA and with the combination of this lure with CO(2). This last combination evoked a behavioural response similar in intensity to that induced by a live mouse.
Feeding patterns of Triatoma pseudomaculata in the state of Ceara, Brazil]	T. pseudomaculata, a peridomicilar species, has low rates of T. cruzi infection. The occurrence of this triatomine in the domicile and its feeding patterns was investigated to identify potential T. cruzi reservoirs.
Observations on the feeding and defecation patterns of three triatomine species (Hemiptera: Reduviidae).	A comparative laboratory study of feeding and defecation behavior of three species of tritomines (Rhodnius prolixus, Triatoma infestans and T. dimidiata) indicated evident differences among the species and among the different stages of same species. Time required for a full blood meal was related to the size of the specimen. Insects required an average of 11-28 min for engorgement although some finished within 10 min. T. dimidata frequently interrupted the act of feeding, a probable explanation of the higher number of defecations before finishing a blood meal observed in the species. R. prolixus was superior to the other two species in number of defecating insects and in rapidity and frequency of defecations within a given time. T. dimidiata was inferior in all three parameters and T. infestans was intermediate. Males of all species tended to be less effective. A "defecation index" is proposed for comparing this different behavior in triatomine specimens under standard conditions. Effectivity of the insects according to the measured parameters is discussed in relation to the prevalence of Chagas' disease in those areas where they are principal vectors.
Orientation response of haematophagous bugs to CO2: the effect of the temporal structure of the stimulus.	Carbon dioxide is generally recognized as an important cue used by haematophagous insects to locate a food source. When the mammalian hosts of these insects breathe, they normally emanate considerable amounts of CO2 at discrete intervals, i.e. with each exhalation. In this work, we analysed the effect of temporally pulsing CO2 on the host-seeking behaviour of Triatoma infestans. We investigated the ability of T. infestans to follow continuous and intermittent air pulses of 0.25, 0.5 and 1 Hz that included different concentrations of CO2. We found that insects were attracted to pulsed airstreams of 0.25 and 0.5 Hz transporting 400 ppm of CO2 above the ambient levels and to continuous streams added with the same amount of CO2. On the other hand, insects walked away from streams pulsed at rates of 1 Hz regardless of the amount of CO2 they bear. The walking trajectories displayed by bugs to attractive CO2-pulsed streams were as rectilinear and accurate as those to CO2-continuous streams. Our results are discussed in the frame of the interaction between olfactory and mechanoreceptive inputs as affecting the behavioural response of bugs.
Flight muscle dimorphism and heterogeneity in flight initiation of field-collected Triatoma infestans (Hemiptera: Reduviidae).	Recent experiments demonstrated that most field-collected Triatoma infestans (Klug) (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) adults from northern Argentina either never initiated flight or did so repeatedly in both sexes. This pattern could not be explained by sex, adult age, weight, weight-to-length ratio (W/L), or chance. We examined whether bugs that never initiated flight possessed developed flight muscles, and whether flight muscle mass relative to total body mass (FMR) was related to the probability of flight initiation. Approximately half of the adults that never initiated flight had no flight muscles. The absence of flight muscles was 2.4 times more frequent in males than females. Females had significantly larger flight muscle mass than males. For both sexes, the frequency of bugs with no flight muscles was spatially heterogeneous among individual collection sites. A logistic regression model of flight initiation that included both FMR and W/L provided abetter fit than models including either one of these predictors. FMR is a novel predictor of flight initiation in Triatominae, with a stronger effect than W/L. The higher frequency of females initiating flight in our experiments may be explained by females having flight muscles more frequently than males, and having FMR and W/L values more suitable for flying. These findings demonstrate that individuals and natural populations of T. infestans can differ dramatically with regard to flight initiation.
Population parameters for Triatoma sordida Stal, 1859: the most frequent vector for Chagas disease in the Triângulo Mineiro (Heteroptera, Triatominae)]	Triatoma sordida is the most frequent vector for Trypanosoma cruzi, Chagas, 1909, in Uberaba, State of Minas Gerais. The objective of this study was to construct a dynamic life table for Triatoma sordida with the aim of supplying support data for controlling its populations.
Comparison of feeding and defecation patterns between fifth-instar nymphs of Triatoma patagonica (Del Ponte, 1929) and Triatoma infestans (Klug, 1934) under laboratory conditions.	Among the vectors of Chagas disease, Triatoma patagonica is a species in the process of adaptation to the human environment. However, its vector competence is not well known. This study had the aim of evaluating and comparing feeding and defecation patterns among fifth-instar nymphs of Triatoma patagonica and Triatoma infestans that were fed ad libitum. The results showed that nymphs of Triatoma patagonica had a feeding pattern similar to that of Triatoma infestans. Sixty nine percent and 58% of nymphs of Triatoma patagonica and Triatoma infestans, respectively, produced their first defecation within five minutes after being fed. Triatoma patagonica defecated during feeding, with an average time until first defecation that was shorter than that of Triatoma infestans (3.4 and 6.2 min, respectively). The nymphs of Triatoma patagonica were capable of defecating during or immediately after feeding.
Influence of the quality and quantity of blood ingested on reproductive parameters and life-span in Triatoma infestans (Klug).	In Triatominae, female fecundity and fertility may be affected by age, adult nutritional status (i.e., blood meal source and amount of blood ingested) and number of matings. Triatoma infestans (Klug) is the main vector of Chagas disease in southern South America and considering that reproductive success is intimately associated with the potential for colonizing or re-colonizing new ecotopes in endemic areas, we studied whether the blood meal source and the amount of blood ingested have influence on reproductive parameters. We constitute two groups: couples feeding regularly on guinea pigs and couples feeding regularly on pigeons. We registered quantity of blood ingested, fecundity, fertility, number of matings, days between the first feeding and mating, copula initiation, oviposition initiation and adult life-span. Results showed that females that fed on guinea pigs exhibited high fecundity and fertility, higher number of matings and they needed a lower amount of blood to form an egg. The number of matings and fecundity increased linearly and significantly with the quantity of blood ingested for both meal sources. Results from lineal regression between life-span and fecundity showed a positive and significant relation for both meal sources. The number of matings showed a positive relation with fecundity for both meal sources but significant only for guinea pigs. In T. infestans, the quantity of blood ingested could be a determinant of their reproductive efficiency. This species is mainly adapted to human dwelling and peridomestic structures where there is low host diversity. Considering that this species is in contact with mammals over other food sources, a greater reproductive success may result from an adaptation to this environment.
Feeding and defecation dynamics of Triatoma sordida]	Today, Triatoma sordida is the most frequently captured triatomine in Brazil. For a better understanding of its vectorial potential, its feeding dynamics and dejections behaviour were studied in comparison with Triatoma infestans and P. megistus. The proportion of T. sordida and T. infestans that blood fed on anaesthetized rats did not differ significantly. There was no significant difference in the time elapse between release of the bugs and the initiation of blood feeding. The mean time between completion of a blood meal and the first dejection was significantly lower in T. infestans than in T. sordida. The numbers of insects that defecated during the blood meal or immediately afterwards was similar for both species. Approximately 80 specimens of each of T. sordida, T. infestans and Panstrongylus megistus were offered daily blood meals for 30 minutes, over a period of 30 days. T. sordida bit more frequently than did P. megistus and T. infestans. These data could indicate that T. sordida may not be completely adapted to its host and might have difficulty in complete its blood meal.
Inhibition of cuticular lipid synthesis and its effect on insect survival.	A new approach to insect control--using sodium trichloroacetate (NaTCA) to inhibit synthesis of the hydrophobic cuticular lipids that protect insects from dehydration--was tested on Triatoma infestans. In vivo and in vitro studies of incorporation of radioactive precursors showed diminished cuticular hydrocarbon synthesis after NaTCA treatment. Thin layer chromatography and scanning electron microscopy showed disruption of the cuticular lipid layer of NaTCA-treated insects, which also have increased mortality and altered molting cycles. NaTCA treatment enhanced the penetration and increased the lethality of a contact insecticide.
Urban ecology of Triatoma infestans in Argentina. Association between Triatoma infestans and pigeon cotes]	A study was undertaken in an urban area of the capital city of the province of San Juan, Argentina, in a housing complex of 768 flats distributed in buildings of 3 and 7 floors each surrounding an abandoned central winery. A total of 329 Triatoma infestans were captured, 293 on 4 terraces of seven-floor-towers and 36 inside the winery, associated with the greater number of pigeons which nest in those places. The bugs were sheltered in the dung accumulated between the cement blocks used to floor the terraces and inside the unused tuns in the winery. Two main bug foci were identified associated with the dense pigeon colonies: 81.5% of the T. infestans collected were found in one of the towers (4B) and 11% in the central winery. After six months of insecticidal spraying of the infested areas, those terraces in which T. infestans has not been previously found resulted gave positive results. The feeding profile of triatomines shows a predominance of simple bird blood meals; in the buildings and the winery 95% of the T. infestans analyzed were identified for bird blood meals; the rest had fed on one or more sources: human, dogs or cats. None of the T. infestans was infected by T. cruzi.
Triatoma infestans can be captured under natural climatic conditions using yeast-baited traps.	The effectiveness of a trap for triatomines baited with yeast cultures has been previously demonstrated in laboratory assays. We report results from assays testing yeast-traps for Triatoma infestans performed under natural climatic conditions. All assays were conducted at experimental chicken-coops colonised by bugs, situated at an endemic area for Chagas disease in Argentina. Two different models of traps were tested, for use either on the floor, or attached to walls. The results obtained clearly demonstrate that yeast-baited traps are effective for capturing triatomine bugs. Floor traps, when baited, captured significantly more bugs than their controls (t-test, P = 0.0008, k = 10). In addition, wall traps were also more effective, when compared to their controls (t-test, P = 0.011, k = 10). The maximum capture by a single yeast-trap was 39 bugs in one night, while for the same period the maximum capture by a control-trap was two bugs. Traps captured significantly more bugs at nights when maximum temperature was above 18 degrees C (t-test, P = 0.0002). Results indicate that yeast traps are capable of capturing significant numbers of free insects in one night. The potential use of yeast- traps for the detection of triatomine bugs is discussed.
