Partial rupture of the tricuspid valve after extraction of permanent pacemaker leads: detection by transesophageal echocardiography.	Traumatic lesions of the tricuspid valve complicating pacemaker lead extractions appear to be rare. We report two cases of partial rupture of the tricuspid valve, following apparently uneventful extraction of permanent ventricular leads, resulting in severe regurgitation and, in one case, chronic heart failure. TEE was useful to identify the traumatic mechanism of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) and the extent of valvular lesions in these patients. Such etiology should be suspected, and TEE performed, in patients developing TR or heart failure late after lead extraction.
Rupture of the chordae of the tricuspid valve after knotting of the pulmonary artery catheter.	A case is presented in which the insertion of a pulmonary artery catheter was complicated by the formation of a knot around the chordae tendineae of the tricuspid valve. The catheter was pulled out under fluoroscopic guidance using a guidewire inserted through the femoral vein.
Traumatic ventricular septal defects. Report of 3 cases with tricuspid valve rupture in 2 cases.	Traumatic ventricular septal defects (TVSD) are rare complications of cardiac trauma. This report describes 3 cases of TVSD secondary to penetrating trauma in 2 patients and to blunt trauma in one case. Echocardiography confirmed the diagnosis in all cases. Surgical correction was performed in the 3 cases. In 2 patients associated tricuspid trauma was present requiring tricuspid valve repair.
Pacemaker-lead puncture of the tricuspid valve. Successful diagnosis and treatment.	During insertion, a transvenous pacing lead pierced the tricuspid valve in a 66-year-old man, causing progressive tricuspid insufficiency and congestive heart failure. The defect remained undiagnosed for ten years and was then repaired. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which this problem has been successfully treated rather than being diagnosed at autopsy.
Massive acute aortic regurgitation after infected pacemaker lead removal: a word of caution.	We report a case of massive acute aortic valve regurgitation in a 54-year-old man secondary to a percutaneous extraction of infected permanent pacemaker leads. This case emphasizes how carefully patients should be monitored during and after the procedure, regardless of their hemodynamic status. The patient successfully underwent urgent surgical intervention.
Traumatic tricuspid valve rupture presenting as third-degree atrioventricular block.	Cardiac valve injury after blunt chest trauma is extremely rare, and the tricuspid valve is most commonly affected because of the anterior location of the right ventricle. Tricuspid valve insufficiency can range from a subclinical presentation to acute cardiac failure.
Two-dimensional echocardiography in post traumatic tricuspid incompetence.	Four patients with post traumatic tricuspid incompetence underwent complete two-dimensional echocardiographic study. Systolic intra-atrial protrusion of the anterior tricuspid leaflet beyond the valvular ring, with total loss of coaptation with the other leaflets, was documented in all patients. These abnormalities were not evident in all transducer locations suggesting the possibility of false negative echocardiograms. An echocardiogram showing a marked systolic excursion of a tricuspid leaflet into the right atrium beyond the level of the tricuspid ring together with the total loss of coaptation does not necessarily mean the rupture of the subvalvular apparatus.
Post-traumatic tricuspid insufficiency. Hemodynamic and echocardiographic study of one case (author's transl)]	The case of a patient, aged 63, with isolated post-traumatic tricuspid insufficiency is described. In this patient the correct diagnosis was made immediately after a non penetrating chest trauma. Physical examination, electrocardiogram, phonocardiogram, chest roentgenogram, hemodynamic and angiocardiographic investigations are reported. The usefulness of echocardiographic examination is emphasized and a comparison with the fail valve syndrome of the mitral valve is made. According to previous reports no immediate surgery was considered and the patient is still under follow up.
Biopsy-induced flail tricuspid leaflet and tricuspid regurgitation following orthotopic cardiac transplantation.	Damage to the tricuspid valve apparatus has been described after endomyocardial biopsy and may be associated with hemodynamically significant tricuspid regurgitation (TR). This study was performed to determine the prevalence of TR and flail tricuspid leaflet in cardiac transplant recipients and to evaluate the use of a 45 cm sheath placed directly in the right ventricle during endomyocardial biopsy to reduce the incidence of these complications. Echocardiograms and right heart catheterization data of 72 orthotopic cardiac transplant recipients were assessed for the presence of flail tricuspid leaflet, TR, and right-sided cardiac dysfunction 29 +/- 20 months (mean +/- SD) after transplantation. Moderate or severe TR was present in 23 patients (32%). Ten patients (14%) had flail tricuspid leaflet, with 7 of these having severe TR. Right atrial pressure (10 +/- 5 vs 6 +/- 5 mm Hg, p < 0.05) was higher, cardiac index (2.0 +/- 0.2 vs 2.5 +/- 0.7 L/min/m2, p < 0.05) was lower, and right-sided cardiac dimensions were greater in patients with flail leaflets than in those without flail leaflets. Both the prevalence of flail tricuspid leaflet (41% to 6%, p < 0.0001) and mean grade of TR (2 to 1, p < 0.0001) were reduced after the use of a 45 cm sheath. We conclude that TR secondary to biopsy-induced damage to the valve apparatus occurs in cardiac transplant recipients and is associated with signs of early right-sided heart failure. Use of a 45 cm sheath during endomyocardial biopsy reduces the prevalence of flail tricuspid leaflet and the severity of TR.
Blunt injury rupture of tricuspid valve and right coronary artery.	Successful surgical repair of an unusual case of blunt trauma to the chest and abdomen is presented. The injury resulted in rupture of the pericardium, avulsion and rupture of the right coronary artery into the right atrium, complete disruption of the tricuspid valve, and acute right heart failure with complete heart block.
