Proteomic analysis of mouse jejunal epithelium and its response to infection with the intestinal nematode, Trichinella spiralis.	Infection with the intestinal nematode Trichinella spiralis induces profound, but stereotypic pathological changes to the epithelium, which are common to many nematode infections. This study describes changes in jejunal epithelial protein expression that reflect these stereotypic responses. Adult male BALB/c mice were infected with T. spiralis, and groups (n = 4) examined on day 14/15 (time of worm rejection) were compared with uninfected controls (n = 4). Jejunal epithelium was harvested and extracted for two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Tryptic peptide mass fingerprinting was used to create a reference map consisting of a total of 52 landmark spots. Of these, 16 were observed to change in intensity during infection. The changes observed at day 14/15 were of relevance to such mechanisms as lipid utilization and transport (increase in triacylglycerol lipase, and reduction in intestinal fatty acid binding protein) and innate immunity (appearance of intelectin-2). As a result, candidate molecules have been identified for further focused studies on their role in the host response to intestinal nematode infection.
Cyclic AMP signaling contributes to neural plasticity and hyperexcitability in AH sensory neurons following intestinal Trichinella spiralis-induced inflammation.	Trichinella spiralis infection causes hyperexcitability in enteric after-hyperpolarising (AH) sensory neurons that is mimicked by neural, immune or inflammatory mediators known to stimulate adenylyl cyclase (AC)/cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling. The hypothesis was tested that ongoing modulation and sustained amplification in the AC/cAMP/phosphorylated cAMP related element binding protrein (pCREB) signaling pathway contributes to hyperexcitability and neuronal plasticity in gut sensory neurons after nematode infection. Electrophysiological, immunological, molecular biological or immunochemical studies were done in T. spiralis-infected guinea-pigs (8000 larvae or saline) after acute-inflammation (7 days) or 35 days p.i., after intestinal clearance. Acute-inflammation caused AH-cell hyperexcitability and elevated mucosal and neural tissue levels of myeloperoxidase, mast cell tryptase, prostaglandin E2, leukotrine B4, lipid peroxidation, nitric oxide and gelatinase; lower level inflammation persisted 35 days p.i. Acute exposure to blockers of AC, histamine, cyclooxygenase or leukotriene pathways suppressed AH-cell hyperexcitability in a reversible manner. Basal cAMP responses or those evoked by forskolin (FSK), Ro-20-1724, histamine or substance P in isolated myenteric ganglia were augmented after T. spiralis infection; up-regulation also occurred in AC expression and AC-immunoreactivity in calbindin (AH) neurons. The cAMP-dependent slow excitatory synaptic transmission-like responses to histamine (mast cell mediator) or substance P (neurotransmitter) acting via G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) in AH neurons were augmented by up to 2.5-fold after T. spiralis infection. FSK, histamine, substance P or T. spiralis acute infection caused a 5- to 30-fold increase in cAMP-dependent nuclear CREB phosphorylation in isolated ganglia or calbindin (AH) neurons. AC and CREB phosphorylation remained elevated 35 days p.i.. Ongoing immune activation, AC up-regulation, enhanced phosphodiesterase IV activity and facilitation of the GPCR-AC/cAMP/pCREB signaling pathway contributes to T. spiralis-induced neuronal plasticity and AH-cell hyperexcitability. This may be relevant in gut nematode infections and inflammatory bowel diseases, and is a potential therapeutic target.
Studies on the rate of selective uptake of amino acids by Trichinella larvae in vivo.	Groups of C57BL/6J mice, orally infected with 300 larvae each of Trichinella spiralis or T. pseudospiralis were injected with [3H]-alanine, tyrosine, tryptophan or glycine. The incorporation of isotope labelled amino acids into larval proteins was measured at 2, 6, and 12 months post-infection. It was shown that there is a significant increase in the in vivo uptake of isotope labelled amino acids with time by the larvae of T. spiralis and T. pseudospiralis. The level of uptake was highest for tyrosine followed by tryptophan, alanine and then glycine, for both species. The in vivo uptake of amino acids by T. pseudospiralis larvae was always higher than T. spiralis or the host at 6 and 12 months post-infection. At 2 months post-infection, T. spiralis uptake of these amino acids was higher, except for tyrosine. This may be related to the special needs of these larvae during the process of encystation. The higher metabolic requirements of T. pseudospiralis may be related to the higher energy needs of these non encapsulated, highly motile and mobile muscle larvae.
Characterization of levamisole binding sites in Trichinella spiralis.	Characterization of the levamisole receptor was performed with total extracts of Trichinella spiralis muscle larvae using binding assays with tritiated levamisole ([3H]LEV, 291 GBq/mmol). We detected a specific [3H]LEV binding activity with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 4.76 microM and a receptor density (Bmax) of 2.14 pmol/mg of protein. In inhibition studies, only dimethylphenylpiperazinium iodide (DMPP) and hexamethonium were found to be competitive inhibitors of the [3H]LEV binding with an inhibition constant (Ki) of 31.04 and 4.43 microM, respectively, whereas d-tubocurarine and alpha-bungarotoxine had no effect on [3H]LEV binding activity, and procaine and atropine potentiated the [3H]LEV-receptor binding. All these data support the idea that levamisole acts as a cholinergic agonist in T. spiralis.
