Improvement of megakaryocytic progenitor culture for toxicological investigations.	The aim of this work was to obtain an in vitro test for the evaluation of xenobiotic toxicity on the proliferation and on the differentiation of megakaryocyte progenitors. The rapid rate of blood cell renewal makes the hematopoietic system a susceptible target for xenobiotic toxicity. Hematotoxic molecules can affect one or more hematopoietic lineages leading to blood disorders. Megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro models applied to toxicological investigations needs to be accurate, precise, reproducible, sensitive and specific. Human hematopoietic progenitors from umbilical cord blood were seeded in a collagen medium. Three solvents have been selected (ethanol, methanol, acetone), and one (dimethyl sulfoxide; DMSO) has been eliminated due to its cytotoxicity at tested concentrations. Cryopreservation did not affect the sensitivity of CFU-MK to xenobiotics. An overnight incubation of cell suspensions as cell suspension enrichment before plating gave better cloning efficiency than CD34(+) cells negative selection. Comparison between different parameters allowed us to propose a protocol suitable for an in vitro megakaryocytopoiesis model in toxicological investigations. The effects of three toxins were studied on CFU-MK development in order to verify the efficiency of this clonogenic assays for toxicity testing. The CFU-MK culture conditions defined revealed their usefulness for investigating drug cytoxicity towards megakaryocytic progenitors and disturbance of their proliferation.
Role of IL-1(beta) in endotoxin potentiation of deoxynivalenol-induced corticosterone response and leukocyte apoptosis in mice.	Endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) and the trichothecenes are microbial toxins that are frequently encountered in food and the environment. Coexposure to LPS and the trichothecene deoxynivalenol (DON, vomitoxin) induces corticosterone-dependent apoptosis in thymus, Peyer's patches, and bone marrow in mice. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) plays a central role in corticosterone induction and subsequent leukocyte apoptosis in this model. Coexposure to LPS (0.1 mg/kg, ip) plus DON (12.5 mg/kg, po) was found to significantly upregulate splenic IL-1beta mRNA and IL-1beta protein expression in B6C3F1 mice, as compared to treatments with vehicle or either of the toxins alone. B6.129S7-IL1r1tm1Imx mice, which are functionally deficient for the IL-1 receptor 1, produced significantly less corticosterone upon coexposure to LPS plus DON than did corresponding wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice. Consistent with these findings, IL-1 receptor 1-deficient mice were recalcitrant to apoptosis induction in leukocytes as determined by assessment of DNA fragmentation assay and flow cytometry. Furthermore, intraperitoneal injection of IL-1 receptor antagonist (100 microgram/mouse, twice at 3 h intervals) in B6C3F1 mice significantly inhibited LPS plus DON-induced increases in plasma corticosterone, as well as apoptosis in thymus, Peyer's patches, and bone marrow. To confirm IL-1beta's capacity to induce apoptosis, B6C3F1 mice were injected with the cytokine (500 ng/mouse, ip) three times at 2 h intervals, and then corticosterone and apoptosis were monitored. Plasma corticosterone levels and thymus and Peyer's patch apoptosis in IL-1beta-injected mice were significantly higher at 12 h than in control mice. Plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels in LPS plus DON-treated B6C3F1 mice did not correlate with the induction of plasma corticosterone or leukocyte apoptosis. Taken together, the results indicate that IL-1beta is an important mediator of LPS plus DON-induced corticosterone and subsequent leukocyte apoptosis and, furthermore, this cytokine possibly acts through an ACTH-independent mechanism.
Mycotoxins.	Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by microfungi that are capable of causing disease and death in humans and other animals. Because of their pharmacological activity, some mycotoxins or mycotoxin derivatives have found use as antibiotics, growth promotants, and other kinds of drugs; still others have been implicated as chemical warfare agents. This review focuses on the most important ones associated with human and veterinary diseases, including aflatoxin, citrinin, ergot akaloids, fumonisins, ochratoxin A, patulin, trichothecenes, and zearalenone.
Docosahexaenoic acid attenuates mycotoxin-induced immunoglobulin a nephropathy, interleukin-6 transcription, and mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation in mice.	The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the dose-dependent effects of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) on deoxynivalenol (DON)-induced IgA nephropathy in mice and their relation to proinflammatory gene expression and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. Consumption of a modified AIN-93G diet containing 1, 5, and 30 g/kg DHA resulted in dose-dependent increases of DHA in liver phospholipids with concomitant decreases in arachidonic acid compared with control diets. DHA dose dependently inhibited increases in serum IgA and IgA immune complexes (IC) as well as IgA deposition in the kidney in DON-fed mice; the 30 g/kg DHA diet had the earliest detectable effects and maximal efficacy. Both splenic interleukin-6 (IL-6) mRNA and heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA), an indicator of IL-6 transcription, were significantly reduced in DON-fed mice that consumed 5 and 30 g/kg DHA; a similar reduction was observed for cyclooxygenase (COX-2) mRNA. In a subsequent study, acute DON exposure (25 mg/kg body weight) induced splenic IL-6 mRNA and hnRNA as well as COX-2 mRNA in mice fed the control diet, whereas induction of both RNA species was significantly inhibited in mice fed 30 g/kg DHA. These latter inhibitory effects corresponded to a reduction in DON-induced phosphorylation of p38, extracellular-signal related kinase 1/2, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 MAPKs in the spleen. Taken together, the results indicate that DHA dose-dependently inhibited DON-induced IgA dysregulation and nephropathy, and that impairment of MAPK activation and expression of COX-2 and IL-6 are potential critical upstream mechanisms.
The effect of increasing concentrations of Fusarium toxins in piglet diets on histological parameters of the uterus and vagina.	The effects of feeding diets containing 0.01, 0.06, 0.15, 0.22 and 0.42 mg zearalenone and 0.2, 0.8, 1.0, 1.9 and 3.9 mg deoxynivalenol per kg, originating from Fusarium toxin contaminated maize, on the uterus of 50 prepubertal piglets (10 pigs per treatment; BW 32.6+/-5.4 kg; approximately 70 days of age) were investigated. The mean weight of the uteri of animals receiving the most highly contaminated diet was significantly increased at the time of slaughtering. The histological investigation showed no marked differences between the feeding groups. Histometrical parameters of the surface epithelium of the uterus, of the uterine glands and the vaginal epithelium were not altered by the treatment.
Characterization of the effect of deoxynivalenol on selected male reproductive endpoints.	The effect of deoxynivalenol (DON) exposure on male reproductive function was assessed in the rat. Male rats were divided into a control group (n=15 rats) and four treatment groups (0.5 mg/kg, n=15; 1.0 mg/kg, n=15; 2.5 mg/kg, n=15; and 5.0 mg/kg DON, n=16) and exposed to DON daily for 28 days via gastric intubation. Both body weight gain and the final body weight of animals in the 5.0 mg/kg dose group and feed consumption in animals in the 2.5 mg/kg and 5.0 mg/kg dose groups were significantly reduced compared to controls. Fluid consumption was not affected in any of the treated groups. Epididymal and seminal vesicle weights expressed per gram of body weight and brain weight were significantly reduced, compared to control weights, in animals from the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg dose groups while prostate weight expressed per gram of brain weight and body weight was significantly lower than controls only in the 5.0 mg/kg dose group. A statistically significant, dose-related decrease in homogenization resistant testicular spermatid counts, spermatid numbers, absolute cauda epididymal sperm numbers and cauda epididymal sperm numbers per gram of cauda epididymis was observed in the 5.0 mg/kg DON treatment group. Sperm tail abnormalities (broken tails) in the 5.0 mg/kg dose group were significantly higher than in the control group. Sperm swimming speed (VSL and VCL) was significantly increased only in the 2.5 mg/kg dose group. Serum FSH and LH concentrations were increased in a dose dependent manner across all treated groups while serum testosterone concentrations were decreased in a dose-related manner across all dose groups. An increase in germ cell degeneration, sperm retention and abnormal nuclear morphology was observed in the 2.5 mg/kg and 5.0 mg/kg dose groups. Treatment related effects included lesions in the non-glandular stomach, thymic lymphoid depletion and splenic hematopoiesis in the 5.0 mg/kg treatment group.
Cloning and characterization of the ribosomal protein L3 (RPL3) gene family from Triticum aestivum.	Plant pathogenic fungi of the genus Fusarium can cause severe diseases on small grain cereals and maize. The contamination of harvested grain with Fusarium mycotoxins is a threat to human and animal health. In wheat production of the toxin deoxynivalenol (DON), which inhibits eukaryotic protein biosynthesis, is a virulence factor of Fusarium, and resistance against DON is considered to be part of Fusarium resistance. Previously, single amino acid changes in RPL3 (ribosomal protein L3) conferring DON resistance have been described in yeast. The goal of this work was to characterize the RPL3 gene family from wheat and to investigate the potential role of naturally existing RPL3 alleles in DON resistance by comparing Fusarium-resistant and susceptible cultivars. The gene family consists of three homoeologous alleles of both RPL3A and RPL3B, which are located on chromosomes 4A (RPL3-B2), 4B (RPL3-B1), 4D (RPL3-B3), 5A (RPL3-A3), 5B (RPL3-A2) and 5D (RPL3-A1). Alternative splicing was detected in the TaRPL3-A2 gene. Sequence comparison revealed no amino acid differences between cultivars differing in Fusarium resistance. While using developed SNP markers we nevertheless found that one of the genes, namely, TaRPL3-A3 mapped close to a Fusarium resistance QTL (Qfhs.ifa-5A). The potential role of the RPL3 gene family in DON resistance of wheat is discussed.
In vivo and in vitro effects of the mycotoxins zearalenone and deoxynivalenol on different non-reproductive and reproductive organs in female pigs: a review.	This review summarizes the toxicological data on the effects of the mycotoxins zearalenone (ZON), its metabolites, and deoxynivalenol (DON) on different parameters relating to reproductive and non-reproductive organs in female pigs. In vivo, 22 mg ZON kg(-1) in the diet cause alterations in the reproductive tract of swine such as in the uterus, and affects follicular and embryo development. ZON and its metabolites have been shown to bind competitively to oestrogen receptors in an in vitro system. The feeding of pigs with a 9 mg DON kg(-1)-contaminated diet can act on protein synthesis, humoral and cellular immune response depending on dose, exposure and timing of functional immune assay, and affect liver and spleen cell structures. Beside these effects, reproductive alterations were observed in pigs, too. Both in vivo and in vitro exposure to DON decreased oocyte and embryo development. In vitro application of DON to uterine cells inhibits their proliferation rate and modulates the process of translation at a different molecular level when compared with the in vivo application. The histopathological results provide evidence of spleen and liver dysfunction in the absence of clinical signs, especially in pigs fed higher concentrations of Fusarium toxin-contaminated wheat. Prepuberal gilts react more sensitively to DON > ZON feeding compared with pregnant sows. In the liver, histopathological changes such as glycogen decrease and interlobular collagen uptake were only observed in prepuberal gilts, whereas enhancement of haemosiderin was found in both perpuberal gilts and pregnant sows. This review presents some of the current knowledge on the biological activities of ZON and DON in pig. Altogether, ZON affects reproduction of pigs most seriously because it possesses oestrogenic activity. However, DON affects reproduction in pigs via indirect effects such as reduced feed intake, resulting in reduced growth or impairment of function in vital organs such as liver and spleen.
Effects of excessive selenium supplementation to diet  contaminated with deoxynivalenol on blood phagocytic  activity and antioxidative status of broilers.	This study examined the effects of excessive dietary supplementation with organic selenium on phagocytic activity and antioxidative status of chickens for fattening fed diet contaminated with deoxynivalenol (DON). Sixty chickens of Ross 308 hybrids were at day of hatching divided into four groups with 15 birds in each. The background DON dietary levels in both negative and positive control groups were 0.2 mg/kg. The complete feed for positive control group was supplemented with Se dose 1 mg/kg in the form of Se-yeast. Group 3 was fed diet with DON level 3 mg/kg while diet for group 4 combined DON level 3 mg/kg with a excessive supplement of Se-yeast (Se dose 1 mg/kg). After 6 weeks of dietary intake, six randomly-chosen chickens from each group were sampled. Feeding of contaminated diet resulted in significantly reduced blood phagocytic activity (19.5 ± 1.1% in the negative control vs. 12.8 ± 0.8% in the DON-treated group, p < 0.05). Se-yeast supplemented to the DON contaminated diet prevented suppression of phagocytic activity. Dietary intake of DON at levels 3 mg/kg did not influence the plasma α-tocopherol level while excessive dietary Se dose reduced it in both Se supplemented groups. Neither the birds of DON-treated group nor the birds from group 4 with DON and Se-yeast showed any response in plasma γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT) activity. Subtoxic dietary level of DON significantly increased the activity of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in the duodenal mucosa, while additional Se supplementation prevented such a response to mycotoxin. On the other hand, both Se supplemented groups showed significantly elevated GPx activities in blood, liver and kidney, (p < 0.05). The results suggest a potential ability of excessive supplementation of organic selenium to prevent the blood phagocytic activity suppression and changes in GPx activity in duodenal tissue induced in broilers by subtoxic dietary levels of DON.
Effects of growth temperature on toxicity of T-2 toxin and roridin A to yeast.	In yeasts, growth temperature is known to affect the membrane phospholipid content. The effect of temperature on the growth inhibition of Kluyveromyces marxianus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the trichothecene mycotoxins, T-2 toxin and roridin A, was investigated. Examination of EC50 values for T-2 toxin and roridin A showed that these toxins were least inhibitory to both yeasts at 30 and 25 degrees C, respectively. Increasing or decreasing growth temperature from these temperatures gradually increased the inhibitory effect of the trichothecene mycotoxins. Temperature may affect the toxicity of the trichothecenes to the yeasts by regulating the composition of yeast cell membranes.
Arrhythmias and alterations in autonomic nervous function induced by deoxynivalenol (DON) in unrestrained rats.	This study aimed to determine the cardiac and autonomic nervous effects of deoxynivalenol (DON), a representative mycotoxin which frequently contaminates cereal grains, in conscious rats that had been implanted with telemetric transmitters. Four groups of rats given subcutaneous injections of 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg of DON or propylene glycol (vehicle solution) were used in the experiments. Telemetric electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings were performed for 2 weeks or longer during the pre- and post-DON injection period. The present study demonstrated that DON caused marked arrhythmias, such as second-degree atrioventricular block, atrial bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystole, and ventricular extrasystole, at 3 hr or later (mostly at 10-20 hr) after the DON-injection, which were accompanied by a significant increase in heart rate (HR) and a significant decrease in total power and low- and high-frequency power during the period from 90 to 180 min after the injection. In conclusion, it was elucidated that DON produces significant cardiac dysfunction and transient inhibition of the autonomic nervous function in conscious rats at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg s.c. or more.
Deoxynivalenol-induced proinflammatory gene expression: mechanisms and pathological sequelae.	The trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) is commonly encountered in human cereal foods throughout the world as a result of infestation of grains in the field and in storage by the fungus Fusarium. Significant questions remain regarding the risks posed to humans from acute and chronic DON ingestion, and how to manage these risks without imperiling access to nutritionally important food commodities. Modulation of the innate immune system appears particularly critical to DON's toxic effects. Specifically, DON induces activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in macrophages and monocytes, which mediate robust induction of proinflammatory gene expression-effects that can be recapitulated in intact animals. The initiating mechanisms for DON-induced ribotoxic stress response appear to involve the (1) activation of constitutive protein kinases on the damaged ribosome and (2) autophagy of the chaperone GRP78 with consequent activation of the ER stress response. Pathological sequelae resulting from chronic low dose exposure include anorexia, impaired weight gain, growth hormone dysregulation and aberrant IgA production whereas acute high dose exposure evokes gastroenteritis, emesis and a shock-like syndrome. Taken together, the capacity of DON to evoke ribotoxic stress in mononuclear phagocytes contributes significantly to its acute and chronic toxic effects in vivo. It is anticipated that these investigations will enable the identification of robust biomarkers of effect that will be applicable to epidemiological studies of the human health effects of this common mycotoxin.
Opposite effects of two trichothecene mycotoxins, deoxynivalenol and nivalenol, on the levels of macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1α and MIP-1β in HL60 cells.	To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the toxicities of the trichothecene mycotoxins deoxynivalenol and nivalenol, their effects on the secretion of anti-hematopoietic chemokines, macrophage inflammatory protein-1α (MIP-1α) and MIP-1β in human promyelocytic leukemia cell line HL60 were investigated. Exposure to deoxynivalenol for 24h significantly induced the secretion of chemokines. The induction of these chemokines may account for the leukopenia after exposure to trichothecene mycotoxins. Treatment with nivalenol decreased the secretion of these chemokines. Our finding that deoxynivalenol induces the secretion of these chemokines, whereas nivalenol has the opposite effect, clearly indicates that the toxicity mechanisms of deoxynivalenol and nivalenol differ.
A chronic oral exposure of pigs with deoxynivalenol partially prevents the acute effects of lipopolysaccharides on hepatic histopathology and blood clinical chemistry.	Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), a cell wall component of gram-negative bacteria, and deoxynivalenol (DON), a prevalent Fusarium-derived contaminant of cereal grains, are each reported to have detrimental effects on the liver. A potentiating toxic effect of the combined exposure was reported previously in a mouse model and hepatocytes in vitro, but not in swine as the most DON-susceptible species. Thus, pigs were fed either a control diet (CON) or a Fusarium contaminated diet (DON, 3.1mg DON/kg diet) for 37 days. At day 37 control pigs were infused for 1h either with physiological saline (CON_CON), 100μg/kg BW DON (CON_DON), 7.5μg/kg BW LPS (CON_LPS), or both toxins (CON_DON/LPS) and Fusarium-pigs with saline (DON_CON) or 7.5μg/kg BW LPS (DON_LPS). Blood samples were taken before and after infusion (-30, +30, +60, +120, and +180min) for clinical blood chemistry. Pigs were sacrificed at +195min and liver histopathology was performed. LPS resulted in higher relative liver weight (p<0.05), portal, periportal and acinar inflammation (p<0.05), haemorrhage (p<0.01) and pathological bilirubin levels (CON_CON 1.0μmol/L vs. CON_LPS 5.4μmol/L, CON_DON/LPS 8.3μmol/L; p<0.001). DON feeding alleviated effects of LPS infusion on histopathology and blood chemistry to control levels, whereas DON infusion alone had no impact.
Advances in deoxynivalenol toxicity mechanisms: the brain as a target.	Deoxynivalenol (DON), mainly produced by Fusarium fungi, and also commonly called vomitoxin, is a trichothecene mycotoxin. It is one of the most abundant trichothecenes which contaminate cereals consumed by farm animals and humans. The extent of cereal contamination is strongly associated with rainfall and moisture at the time of flowering and with grain storage conditions. DON consumption may result in intoxication, the severity of which is dose-dependent and may lead to different symptoms including anorexia, vomiting, reduced weight gain, neuroendocrine changes, immunological effects, diarrhea, leukocytosis, hemorrhage or circulatory shock. During the last two decades, many studies have described DON toxicity using diverse animal species as a model. While the action of the toxin on peripheral organs and tissues is well documented, data illustrating its effect on the brain are significantly less abundant. Yet, DON is known to affect the central nervous system. Recent studies have provided new evidence and detail regarding the action of the toxin on the brain. The purpose of the present review is to summarize critical studies illustrating this central action of the toxin and to suggest research perspectives in this field.
Deoxynivalenol impairs hepatic and intestinal gene expression of selected oxidative stress, tight junction and inflammation proteins in broiler chickens, but addition of an adsorbing agent shifts the effects to the distal parts of the small intestine.	Broiler chickens are rather resistant to deoxynivalenol and thus, clinical signs are rarely seen. However, effects of subclinical concentrations of deoxynivalenol on both the intestine and the liver are less frequently studied at the molecular level. During our study, we investigated the effects of three weeks of feeding deoxynivalenol on the gut wall morphology, intestinal barrier function and inflammation in broiler chickens. In addition, oxidative stress was evaluated in both the liver and intestine. Besides, the effect of a clay-based mycotoxin adsorbing agent on these different aspects was also studied. Our results show that feeding deoxynivalenol affects the gut wall morphology both in duodenum and jejenum of broiler chickens. A qRT-PCR analysis revealed that deoxynivalenol acts in a very specific way on the intestinal barrier, since only an up-regulation in mRNA expression of claudin 5 in jejunum was observed, while no effects were seen on claudin 1, zona occludens 1 and 2. Addition of an adsorbing agent resulted in an up-regulation of all the investigated genes coding for the intestinal barrier in the ileum. Up-regulation of Toll-like receptor 4 and two markers of oxidative stress (heme-oxigenase or HMOX and xanthine oxidoreductase or XOR) were mainly seen in the jejunum and to a lesser extent in the ileum in response to deoxynivalenol, while in combination with an adsorbing agent main effect was seen in the ileum. These results suggest that an adsorbing agent may lead to higher concentrations of deoxynivalenol in the more distal parts of the small intestine. In the liver, XOR was up-regulated due to DON exposure. HMOX and HIF-1α (hypoxia-inducible factor 1α) were down-regulated due to feeding DON but also due to feeding the adsorbing agent alone or in combination with DON. 
The fusarium mycotoxin deoxynivalenol can inhibit plant apoptosis-like programmed cell death.	The Fusarium genus of fungi is responsible for commercially devastating crop diseases and the contamination of cereals with harmful mycotoxins. Fusarium mycotoxins aid infection, establishment, and spread of the fungus within the host plant. We investigated the effects of the Fusarium mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) on the viability of Arabidopsis cells. Although it is known to trigger apoptosis in animal cells, DON treatment at low concentrations surprisingly did not kill these cells. On the contrary, we found that DON inhibited apoptosis-like programmed cell death (PCD) in Arabidopsis cells subjected to abiotic stress treatment in a manner independent of mitochondrial cytochrome c release. This suggested that Fusarium may utilise mycotoxins to suppress plant apoptosis-like PCD. To test this, we infected Arabidopsis cells with a wild type and a DON-minus mutant strain of F. graminearum and found that only the DON producing strain could inhibit death induced by heat treatment. These results indicate that mycotoxins may be capable of disarming plant apoptosis-like PCD and thereby suggest a novel way that some fungi can influence plant cell fate. 
Role of cholecystokinin in anorexia induction following oral exposure to the 8-ketotrichothecenes deoxynivalenol, 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol, 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, fusarenon X, and nivalenol.	Cereal grain contamination by trichothecene mycotoxins is known to negatively impact human and animal health with adverse effects on food intake and growth being of particular concern. The head blight fungus Fusarium graminearum elaborates five closely related 8-ketotrichothecene congeners: (1) deoxynivalenol (DON), (2) 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-ADON), (3) 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol (15-ADON), (4) fusarenon X (FX), and (5) nivalenol (NIV). While anorexia induction in mice exposed intraperitoneally to DON has been linked to plasma elevation of the satiety hormones cholecystokinin (CCK) and peptide YY₃₋₃₆ (PYY₃₋₃₆), the effects of oral gavage of DON or of other 8-keotrichothecenes on release of these gut peptides have not been established. The purpose of this study was to (1) compare the anorectic responses to the aforementioned 8-ketotrichothecenes following oral gavage at a common dose (2.5 mg/kg bw) and (2) relate these effects to changes plasma CCK and PYY₃₋₃₆ concentrations. Elevation of plasma CCK markedly corresponded to anorexia induction by DON and all other 8-ketotrichothecenes tested. Furthermore, the CCK1 receptor antagonist SR 27897 and the CCK2 receptor antagonist L-365,260 dose-dependently attenuated both CCK- and DON-induced anorexia, which was consistent with this gut satiety hormone being an important mediator of 8-ketotrichothecene-induced food refusal. In contrast to CCK, PYY₃₋₃₆ was moderately elevated by oral gavage with DON and NIV but not by 3-ADON, 15-ADON, or FX. Taken together, the results suggest that CCK plays a major role in anorexia induction following oral exposure to 8-ketotrichothecenes, whereas PYY₃₋₃₆ might play a lesser, congener-dependent role in this response.
Suppression of immune response in the B6C3F1 mouse after dietary exposure to the Fusarium mycotoxins deoxynivalenol (vomitoxin) and zearalenone.	The effect that dietary exposure to the naturally-occurring Fusarium graminearum toxins deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEA) may have on immune function was assessed in the B6C3F1 mouse. Dietary DON depressed the plaque-forming response to sheep red blood cells, the delayed hypersensitivity response to keyhole limpet haemocyanin and the ability to resist Listeria monocytogenes. Listerial resistance was similarly decreased in control mice fed restricted diets comparable to the dietary restriction caused by DON-induced feed refusal, whereas equivalent food restriction did not decrease the plaque or delayed hypersensitivity responses. ZEA ingestion decreased resistance to L. monocytogenes but did not affect splenic plaque-forming or delayed hypersensitivity responses. Resistance to Listeria was reduced to a greater extent by co-administration of DON and ZEA than by DON alone, whereas the ability of DON to inhibit the delayed hypersensitivity response was significantly lessened in the presence of ZEA. While effects on resistance to Listeria and delayed hypersensitivity were detectable in mice ingesting the mycotoxins for 2-3 wk, these effects disappeared upon extension of the feeding period to 8 wk. In contrast, some effect on the plaque-forming response was detectable with both the 2- and the 8-wk period of mycotoxin ingestion. Immunosuppression can thus result from ingestion of F. graminearum-infected agricultural staples, the suppression being attributable to interactions between direct immunotoxic effects of DON and ZEA and nutritional effects associated with DON-induced food refusal.
Effect of the trichothecene deoxynivalenol on brain biogenic monoamines concentrations in rats and chickens.	Male Sprague-Dawley rats (180 g) and 28-day-old Single Comb White Leghorn Cockerels (300 g) were orally dosed with deoxynivalenol (DON) at 2.5 mg kg-1 body weight. In the first experiment, whole brains were collected at 2, 6, 12, 24 and 48 hours after the toxin treatment and analyzed for brain biogenic monoamines by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Although several interesting trends were observed, DON did not influence whole brain concentrations of monoamine neurotransmitters or their metabolites in either species, at any time. In a second experiment, brains were collected 24 hours postdosing, dissected into 5 brain regions (pons and medulla oblongata, cerebellum, hypothalamus, hippocampus and cerebral cortex), and analyzed. DON treatment resulted in significantly elevated concentrations of serotonin (HT) and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (HIAA) in all brain regions of the rat. However, this was not seen in poultry, where DON treatment resulted in a decrease in norepinephrine (NE) in the hypothalamus and hippocampus, and a decrease in dopamine (DA) in the pons and medulla oblongata region. These results suggest that DON influences brain biogenic amine metabolism, and that there may be intraspecies differences in the central effects of this mycotoxin.
Effects of feeding mature White Leghorn hens diets that contain deoxynivalenol (vomitoxin).	Mature White Leghorn hens that had been fed a commercial laying diet were changed to a wheat-based diet over a period of 42 days. Two groups were formed based on equivalent egg production and body weights and randomly assigned to either a control (noncontaminated) wheat diet or a naturally contaminated deoxynivalenol (DON, vomitoxin) wheat diet (18 mg DON/kg). Hens were provided their respective diets and water ad libitum for 112 days along with 16 hr of light. The DON-contaminated diet did not significantly influence hen body weights, hen day egg production, egg weights, or efficiency of feed utilization. Internal egg quality, as measured by albumin height, was slightly, although significantly, improved by feeding the DON-contaminated wheat diet. Egg shell weight and percent egg shell were slightly, although significantly, decreased by feeding the DON-contaminated diet, whereas shell thickness was not altered. No deleterious effects were observed in fertility, hatchability, or chick weights at hatch. The results indicate that laying hens are affected only slightly when fed naturally contaminated wheat diets containing approximately 18 mg DON/kg for 112 days.
Direct and reflex cardiovascular effects of trichothecene mycotoxins.	Intravenous injection of T-2 toxin or roridin-A (2 mg/kg) into pentobarbital-anesthetized (30 mg/kg) dogs produced, respectively, decreased systolic pressure within 30 min and atrio-ventricular block within 60 min. Within 45 +/- 15 min after injection of each toxin heart rate increased and remained elevated for at least 4 hr. The increase in sinus rate was reduced by 50% when dogs were pretreated with i.v. propranolol--HCl (5 mg/kg); pretreatment with atropine sulphate (5 mg/kg) did not alter the effect of the trichothecenes. Upon administration of T-2 toxin or roridin-A (30 mg/l) to isolated arterially perfused canine right atria, sinus rate decreased by 12% and 28%, respectively, and sinus node cell diastolic potentials became more negative by 7% and 10%, respectively. Sino-atrial block observed in 50% of the isolated atrial preparations perfused with roridin-A disappeared when toxin perfusion was discontinued. Perfusion with T-2 toxin or roridin-A produced no significant effects on atrial muscle cell action potentials. The cardiovascular response to systemic trichothecenes was hypotension followed by propranolol-sensitive tachycardia. The direct effects on conduction system cells may contribute to the overall deleterious action on the cardiovascular system.
Impact of high dietary vomitoxin on yolk yield and embryonic mortality.	Single Comb White Leghorn hens at 58 weeks of age were given control (C) and vomitoxin (V)-contaminated feed for 4 weeks; then the V treatment was changed to C for 2 subsequent weeks. Fusarium graminearum-infected corn was substituted for sound corn to attain a practical extreme of 38 ppm V. Hen-day production, feed consumption, body weight, and gross pathology were the same between treatments. Egg weight, internal quality, and shell strength were not adversely affected; however, dietary V led to a small reduction in the percentage of yolk while albumen increased. Solids content of both egg components remained unchanged, and no V as such could be detected (less than .2 ppm). Presence of toxic V metabolites in the egg were indicated by increased (although still low) embryonic mortality upon incubation. Improvement in yolk yield and relief from germ losses occurred 1 week after the change from V to C feed. Overall responses to present extreme circumstances were no greater than variation occurring between weeks, and problems in practice seem remote.
Short-term effects of two fusarium toxins, diacetoxyscirpenol and neosolaniol monoacetate, in male Wistar rats.	This study compared the pathological and haematological effects of neosolaniol monoacetate in male Wistar rats with those of diacetoxyscirpenol, a highly toxic trichothecene mycotoxin. Both toxins caused statistically significant decreases in erythrocyte counts and increased the proportion of larger platelets compared to controls when dosed at 1 mg/kg body weight three times/wk for up to 5 wk. Lesions caused by treatment with either toxin at this dosage level were mild and were seen--mainly after 2-4 wk--in the actively dividing cells of the thymus, spleen, lymph nodes and bone marrow. Reduced severity or disappearance of the lesions was noted towards the end of the treatment period. The type and severity of the toxic effects of neosolaniol monoacetate appeared to be similar to those of diacetoxyscirpenol.
Acute toxicity of 12,13-epoxytrichothecenes in one-day-old broiler chicks.	Acute toxic effects of several 12,13-epoxytrichothecenes were investigated in 1-day-old broiler chicks by single oral doses. The 7-day median lethal dose values of purified 8-acetylneosolaniol, diacetoxyscirpenol, T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin, neosolaniol, deacetyl-HT-2 toxin, and T-2 tetraol were 3.22 +/- 0.26, 3.82 +/- 0.40, 4.97 +/- 0.44, 7.22 +/- 0.39, 24.87 +/- 2.64, 30.18 +/- 7.53 (incomplete value), and 33.79 +/- 5.39 mg/kg of body weight, respectively. Deaths occurred during the 8- to 60-h period after dosing with the tested trichothecenes. Within 4 to 10 h after dosing, inappetence, asthenia, diarrhea, and coma generally developed. Sublethal doses of each toxin decreased feed consumption and weight gain proportionally with the amounts of toxins administered. These results demonstrate that the toxic potency of 12,13-epoxytrichothecenes varies depending on the modification of side chains in the molecule.
Effects of tamoxifen, melatonin, coenzyme Q10, and L-carnitine supplementation on bacterial growth in the presence of mycotoxins.	The involvement of toxic oxygen intermediates in the bacteriostatic effects of mycotoxins (T-2 toxin, deoxynivalenol, ochratoxin A, aflatoxin B1, and fumonisin B1) was investigated by producing bacterial growth curves using turbidimetry assays in the presence and absence of oxygen radical-scavenging substances. The strains used in this study included Escherichia coli (FT 101), Streptococcus agalactiae (FT 311, FT 313, FT 315), Staphylococcus aureus (FT 192), Yersinia enterocolitica (FT 430), Salmonella infantis (FT 431), Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae (FT 432), Lactobacillus plantarum (FT234) and Lactobacillus casei (FT 232). Tamoxifen, melatonin, l-carnitine and coenzyme Q10 were used as radical scavengers against oxygen toxicity to the strains studied. Tamoxifen was the most effective in inhibiting bacterial growth when used at a high concentration, whereas melatonin and l-carnitine were less effective. A combination of l-carnitine and coenzyme Q10 provided better protection against oxygen toxicity caused by the mycotoxins growth than they did individually. It was concluded that oxygen radicals are involved in the killing of bacteria and that there is endogenous formation of toxic oxygen products by mycotoxins. The objective of this study was to determine whether the antioxidants were able to counteract the toxic effects of the mycotoxins. The data obtained indicate that bacterial growth can be inhibited especially by T-2 toxin, aflatoxin B1 and ochratoxin A and that this effect can be partially counteracted by antioxidants such as coenzyme Q10 plus l-carnitine.
