The inhibitory effects of heavy metals and organic compounds on the net maximum specific growth rate of the autotrophic biomass in activated sludge.	A respirometry technique can be applied as an effective method to determine the net maximum specific growth rate of autotrophic biomass under both normal conditions and when inhibition occurs. The net maximum specific growth rate of uninhibited autotrophic biomass, expressed as (mu(A)-b(A)), is approximately 0.8 per day [Proceeding of the International Congress on CHISA, Prague, 2002, p. 1]. Several heavy metals and organic compounds have inhibitory effects. Copper (Cu(2+)) has stronger inhibitory effects than zinc (Zn(2+)), and inhibits the nitrification process by 50% at 0.08 mg/l [(mu(A)-b(A)) = 0.4 per day], while the same concentration of Zn(2+) establishes 12% inhibition only [(mu(A)-b(A)) = 0.75 per day]. Inhibition with Cu(2+) starts at concentrations above 0.05 mg/l, while this is above 0.3mg/l for Zn(2+). The inhibition of the nitrification process is complete at 1.2mg/l for both Cu(2+) and Zn(2+). Among the selected organic compounds tested n the experiments, the degree of inhibition decreases as follow: chlorobenzene>trichloroethylene (TCE)>phenol>ethylbenzene. Chlorobenzene already inhibits the autotrophic biomass at 0.25 mg/l. The nitrification process is totally inhibited by adding 0.75 mg/l of chlorobenzene. TCE has a less inhibitory effect on the nitrification process and 50% inhibition is noticed at 0.75 mg/l TCE. The nitrification process is totally inhibited at 1mg/l TCE. Phenol inhibits the nitrification for 50% at 3 mg/l. The inhibitory effect of phenol is almost constant in the range 4-10 mg/l and complete inhibition is reached at 50 mg/l. The inhibitory effect of ethylbenzene is 50% at 8 mg/l and the autotrophic biomass is totally inhibited at 50 mg/l. Experimental findings are compared with literature data, which generally and significantly overestimate the inhibition threshold concentrations.
In vivo and in vitro interaction of trichloroethylene with macromolecules from various organs of rat and mouse.	Trichloroethylene was covalently bound in vivo to DNA, RNA and proteins of rat and mouse organs 22 hr after ip injection. The covalent binding index values of rat and mouse liver DNA classify trichloroethylene as a weak initiator. Labeling of RNA and proteins from various organs of both species was higher than that of DNA. In vitro, trichloroethylene was bioactivated by microsomal fractions dependent on cytochrome P450, mainly from liver of both species, to intermediate(s) capable of binding to exogenous DNA. No particular species-specific difference was evident except for mouse lung microsomes which were more efficient than rat lung microsomes. GSH-transferases capable of bioactivating P450-dependent were present in mouse lung microsomes and in liver microsomes of both species. These data, along those previously reported, provide sufficient evidence for a weak ability of TCY to interact covalently with DNA.
Trichloroethylene and halothane inhibit uptake and metabolism of 5-hydroxytryptamine in rat lung slices.	The effect of exposure to organic solvents on uptake and metabolism of 5-HT was studied in rat lung slices. It was found that under control conditions 5-HT was both taken up and metabolized to 5-HIAA. When halothane (35,000 ppm) or trichloroethylene (18,000 ppm) were equilibrated with the incubation medium the uptake of 5-HT decreased by approximately 50% after 30 min of incubation, and the production of 5-HIAA was inhibited by approximately 70% and 80%, respectively. The results are consistent with earlier studies using a much more elaborate technique, in which halothane and trichloroethylene were found to depress 5-HT uptake in isolated perfused rat lungs. Our results demonstrate that the simpler technique employing lung slices can also be used, to investigate factors affecting pulmonary uptake of endogenous amines, and, potentially, the uptake of other compounds as well.
Labilization of brain lysosomes by trichloroethylene metabolites and peroxide anion in vitro.	Lysosomes were isolated from adult male Wistar rat brain and incubated in vitro with 10 micron trichloroethylene and microsomes or postmicrosomal supernatant with added NADPH. Freezing and incubation with the solvent alone served as controls. The results were compared with the effect of peroxide anion from the xanthine-xanthine oxidase reaction. Mere solvent did not cause an appearance of acid proteinase activity in the incubation medium whereas other treatments induced lysosomal labilization.
Trichloroethylene inhibits uptake of 3H-5-hydroxytryptamine but not uptake of 3H-zimeldine or 3H-propranolol in isolated perfused rat lungs.	Pulmonary uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), zimeldine and propranolol were studied using the isolated perfused rat lung model. The 5-HT uptake was found to be attenuated by approximately 50 per cent in comparison to the control, when the lungs were ventilated with air containing 5,000 p.p.m. trichloroethylene. In experiments in which the active uptake of 5-HT was blocked with the selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor zimeldine (5 X 10(-6) M), the uptake of 5-HT decreased by 70 +/- 1.7 per cent (mean +/- S.E.M.). When trichloroethylene (5,000 p.p.m. and 18,000 p.p.m.) was added, no further decrease in uptake was noted. The uptake of 3H-zimeldine (10(-6) M) and 3H-propranolol (10(-6) M) was unaffected by ventilating the lungs with trichloroethylene. It is concluded that trichloroethylene inhibits the active uptake of 5-HT from the pulmonary circulation, but that it has no effect on the uptake of zimeldine or propranolol, which are taken up predominantly by passive diffusion.
Comparative effect of pethidine, trichloroethylene, and Entonox on fetal and neonatal acid-base and PO2.	The second stage of labour is associated with relative fetal hypoxia and progressive metabolic acidosis. Maternal analgesia can increase the danger, especially for the high-risk fetus.In 152 patients the effect on the fetus of pethidine alone, pethidine + trichloroethylene, or pethidine + Entonox was assessed by fetal scalp blood sampling. Fetal pH, Pco(2), and Po(2) were measured and base excess was calculated. Capillary samples were also taken 45 to 60 minutes after birth in 88 of the babies to estimate the rate of neonatal recovery.Entonox proved safer than trichloroethylene, and babies treated with it maintained their Po(2) before birth, had better Apgar scores at birth, and one hour later were significantly less acidotic and much better oxygenated.
Chronic exposure to trichloroethylene: lipid and acyl group composition in gerbil cerebral cortex and hippocampus.	Inhalation exposure of Mongolian gerbils to trichloroethylene (50 and 150 ppm) for 12 months caused only small changes in the lipid composition of their cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Total protein content and lipid class distribution were almost unaffected. However, the cholesterol to phospholipid ratio decreased in the cortex of animals exposed to trichloroethylene. This might be due to changes in the relative proportions of different membranes or cellular types. The finding of most interest was among the long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids where changed ratios were found between long-chain derivatives of the linoleic and the linolenic acid series and a decrease in two minor fatty acids, 20:5 (n-3) and 22:5 (n-3). We think it is likely that such changes occur as a result of peroxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids or in order to withstand the fluidizing properties of trichloroethylene.
Shivering and rigor during the awakening period]	Muscular hyperactivity presenting as shivering and rigor during the awakening period after 116 surgeries with the use of microsurgical technique under balanced NLA-based anesthesia was studied. In some cases ketamine (0.5 to 0.75 mg/kg) and trilene (0.3 to 0.5 vol.%) were used at the stage of tissue revascularization under conditions of controlled and uncontrolled thermal loss. The efficacy of special drug (ketamine, trilene) and nondrug (warming measures) components of anesthesia preventing shivering and rigor was demonstrated. A correlation between the intensity of muscular hyperactivity and the degree of recovery of pain sensitivity (r from -0.73 to -0.98) and the level of consciousness recovery (r from 0.69 to 0.92) was revealed. The policy of treatment of shivering and chill was selected with due consideration for these data. Efficacies of tramal (96%) and ketamine (80%) were demonstrated. Nubain was found absolutely unfit for the purpose.
Kinetic characterization of CYP2E1 inhibition in vivo and in vitro by the chloroethylenes.	Trans- and cis-1,2-dichloroethylene (DCE) isomers inhibit their own metabolism in vivo by inactivation of the metabolizing enzyme, presumably the cytochrome P450 isoform, CYP2E1. In this study, we examined cytochrome P450 isoform-specific inhibition by three chloroethylenes, cis-DCE, trans-DCE, and trichloroethylene (TCE), and evaluated several kinetic mechanisms of enzyme inhibition with physiological models of inhibition. Trans-DCE was more potent than cis-DCE, and both were much more effective than TCE in inhibiting CYP2E1. The kinetics of in vitro loss of p-nitrophenol hydroxylase (pNP-OH) activity (a marker of CYP2E1) in microsomal incubations and of the in vivo gas uptake results were most consistent with a mechanism in which inhibition of the metabolizing enzyme (CYP2E1) was presumed to be related to interaction of a reactive DCE metabolite with remaining substrate-bound, active CYP2E1. The kinetics of inhibition by TCE, a weak inhibitor in vitro, were very different from that of the dichloroethylenes. With TCE, parent compound concentrations influenced enzyme loss. Trans-DCE was a more potent inhibitor of CYP2E1 than cis-DCE based on both in vivo and in vitro studies. Quantitative differences in the inhibitory properties of the 1,2-DCE isomers may be due to the different stability of epoxides formed from bioactivation by CYP2E1. Epoxide intermediates of DCE metabolism, reacting by water addition, would yield dialdehyde, a potent cross-linking reagent.
