Protein synthesis requirements for nuclear division, cytokinesis, and cell separation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Protein synthesis inhibitors have often been used to identify regulatory steps in cell division. We used cell division cycle mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and two chemical inhibitors of translation to investigate the requirements for protein synthesis for completing landmark events after the G1 phase of the cell cycle. We show, using cdc2, cdc6, cdc7, cdc8, cdc17 (38 degrees C), and cdc21 (also named tmp1) mutants, that cells arrested in S phase complete DNA synthesis but cannot complete nuclear division if protein synthesis is inhibited. In contrast, we show, using cdc16, cdc17 (36 degrees C), cdc20, cdc23, and nocodazole treatment, that cells that arrest in the G2 stage complete nuclear division in the absence of protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is required late in the cell cycle to complete cytokinesis and cell separation. These studies show that there are requirements for protein synthesis in the cell cycle, after G1, that are restricted to two discrete intervals.
The effect of aeration and metabolic inhibitors on resistance to amphotericin in starved cultures of Candida albicans.	The development of resistance to amphotericin methyl ester, measured in terms of the amount of drug required to induce a standard rate of release of K+ from suspensions of washed organisms, has been followed in Candida albicans in starved cultures under controlled conditions of aeration, stirring and temperature. Resistance develops at a rate which increases with the rate of aeration, limited by the onset of damage due to turbulence. Resistance decreases rapidly if gassing with N2 is substituted for aeration, but sensitivity does not reach that of exponentially growing cells. Resumption of aeration is followed by a slow recovery of resistance. The addition of inhibitors of protein synthesis (trichodermin, verrucarin) or uncoupling agents (2,4-dinitrophenol, sodium azide) at the beginning of starvation results in an increased rate of development of resistance. Adding inhibitors at a later stage, when resistance has developed after 72 h aeration, does not affect the decrease in resistance produced by gassing with N2 but the presence of trichodermin or verrucarin delays the recovery of resistance o
Molecular events associated with induction of arginase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Arginase, the enzyme responsible for arginine degradation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is an inducible protein whose inhibition of ornithine carbamoyl-transferase has been studied extensively. Mutant strains defective in the normal regulation of arginase production have also been isolated. However, in spite of these studies, the macromolecular biosynthetic events involved in production of arginase remain obscure. We have, therefore, studied the requirements of arginase induction. We observed that: (i) 4 min elapsed between the addition of inducer (homoarginine) and the appearance of arginase activity at 30 degrees C; (ii) induction required ribonucleic acid synthesis and a functional rna1 gene product; and (iii) production of arginase-specific synthetic capacity occurred in the absence of protein synthesis but could be expressed only when protein synthesis was not inhibited. Termination of induction by inducer removal, addition of the ribonucleic acid synthesis inhibitor lomofungin, or resuspension of a culture of organisms containing temperature-sensitive rna1 gene products in a medium at 35 degrees C resulted in loss of ability for continued arginase synthesis with half-lives of 5.5, 3.8, and 4.5 min, respectively. These and other recently published data suggest that a variety of inducible or repressible proteins responding rapidly to the environment may be derived from labile synthetic capacities, whereas constitutively produced proteins needed continuously throughout the cell cycle may be derived from synthetic capacities that are significantly more stable.
Inhibitors of protein synthesis inhibit both La Crosse virus S-mRNA and S genome syntheses in vivo.	The effect of drugs such as puromycin and cycloheximide, which inhibit protein synthesis, on the accumulation of La Crosse virus S genome RNAs in vivo has been examined. We have found that if these drugs are added to the cultures before infection, minuscule amounts of S-mRNA can be detected late in infection. Genome replication, on the other hand, cannot be detected at any time. When these drugs are added later in infection when RNA synthesis is well established, S-mRNA accumulation decreases in a dose-dependent manner proportional to the effect of these drugs on protein synthesis. This decrease cannot be accounted for by increased turnover of the mRNA in the presence of the drug. S genome replication, curiously, was found to be hypersensitive to the effects of these drugs. Our results confirm those of Abraham and Pattnaik (1983) that ongoing protein synthesis is required for the accumulation of complete bunyavirus S-mRNA.
Regulation of ornithine decarboxylase during morphogenesis of Mucor racemosus.	During the yeast-to-hyphae transition of the dimorphic phycomycete Mucor racemosus, there was a 30- to 50-fold increase in the activity of ornithine decarboxylase. Increased enzyme activity preceded the emergence of germ tubes and reached a maximum before conversion was completed. Subsequently, enzyme levels rapidly declined, despite the continuation of mycelial growth. Both putrescine and spermidine blocked the enzyme activity response. Protein synthesis was required for the increase in enzyme activity during morphogenesis. A combination of actinomycin D and netropsin inhibited ribonucleic acid synthesis but failed to inhibit the increase in ornithine decarboxylase activity. There was a twofold increase in the enzyme half-life during morphogenesis with either trichodermin or verrucarin to inhibit protein synthesis.
Cycloheximide-dependent mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae]	Selection of sup1 and sup2 mutants in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on cycloheximide containing media revealed classes of mutants that either are completely unable to grow on YAPD without cycloheximide or need this drug under high temperature incubation (30 or 36 degrees C). Some of these mutants also exhibit the growth dependence on another antibiotic--trichodermin, and, at the same time, the osmotic dependence. A hypothesis claiming that sup1 and sup2 mutations cause conformational lability fo yeast cytoplasmic ribosomes has been put forward. It is also proposed that binding of cycloheximide and trichodermin to the mutant ribosomes cause their conformational shift, which compensates the functional defects.
