Developmental regulation of cmp1, a gene encoding a multidomain conidiospore surface protein of Trichoderma.	A gene encoding a developmentally regulated polypeptide of Trichoderma (strain ATCC 32173) was isolated, with the help of an antibody against a 62-kDa protein whose abundance strongly increases during photoinduced sporulation. The amino acid sequence deduced from this gene, cmp1 (conidial multidomain protein), is a 135-kDa polypeptide consisting of several domains. Although reminiscent of known structural modules, two of the domains may define novel families. The protein is apparently processed to give the 62-kDa species. Immunogold labeling electron microscopy localized the antigen to the membrane or inner wall layers. The mRNA is strongly up-regulated during sporulation. At least part of this regulation is likely to be conferred by several elements identified in the upstream region, with homology to elements recognized by fungal transcription factors for regulation by conidiation, light, and nitrogen stress. The developmental regulation, cell surface location, and modular structure suggest a function in cell-cell interactions, detection of the wall by the cell, or anchoring of the plasma membrane to the wall.
Effect of pH on cellulase production of Trichoderma reesei RUT C30.	Currently, the high market price of cellulases prohibits commercialization of the lignocellulosics-to-fuel ethanol process, which utilizes enzymes for saccharification of cellulose. For this reason research aimed at understanding and improving cellulase production is still a hot topic in cellulase research. Trichoderma reesei RUT C30 is known to be one of the best hyper producing cellulolytic fungi, which makes it an ideal test organism for research. New findings could be adopted for industrial strains in the hope of improving enzyme yields, which in turn may result in lower market price of cellulases, thus making fuel ethanol more cost competitive with fossil fuels. Being one of the factors affecting the growth and cellulase production of T. reesei, the pH of cultivation is of major interest. In the present work, numerous pH-controlling strategies were compared both in shake-flask cultures and in a fermentor. Application of various buffer systems in shake-flask experiments was also tested. Although application of buffers resulted in slightly lower cellulase activity than that obtained in non-buffered medium, beta-glucosidase production was increased greatly.
beta-Glucosidase production by Trichoderma reesei.	The hydrolysis of cellulose to the water-soluble products cellobiose and glucose is achieved via synergistic action of cellulolytic proteins. The three types of enzymes involved in this process are endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and beta-glucosidases. One of the best fungal cellulase producers is Trichoderma reesei RUT C30. However, the amount of beta-glucosidases secreted by this fungus is insufficient for effective cellulose conversion. We investigated the production of cellulases and beta-glucosidases in shake-flask cultures by applying three pH-controlling strategies: the pH of the production medium was adjusted to 5.8 after the addition of seed culture with no additional pH adjustment performed, the pH was adjusted to 6.0 daily, and the pH was maintained at 6.0 by the addition of Tris-maleate buffer to the growth medium. Different carbon sources Solka Floc 200, glucose, lactose, and sorbitol were added to standard Mandels nutrients. The lowest beta-glucosidase activities were obtained when no pH adjustment was done regardless of the carbon source employed. Somewhat higher levels of beta- glucosidase were measured in the culture filtrates when daily pH adjustment was carried out. The effect of buffering the culture medium on beta-glucosidase liberation was most prominent when a carbon source inducing the production of other cellulases was applied.
Major secondary metabolites produced by two commercial Trichoderma strains active against different phytopathogens.	Trichoderma harzianum strains T22 and T39 are two micro-organisms used as active agents in a variety of commercial biopesticides and biofertilizers and widely applied amongst field and greenhouse crops. The production, isolation, biological and chemical characterization of the main secondary metabolites produced by these strains are investigated.
Efficient isolation of anthraquinone-derivatives from Trichoderma harzianum ETS 323.	Anthraquinone-derivatives, chrysophanol and pachybasin, were purified by a silica column chromatography with two different solvent systems from Trichoderma harzianum ETS 323. The fungus was incubated in sugarcane bagasse solid medium at room temperature without rotation. Structure of chrysophanol was solved by X-ray diffraction and pachybasin by NMR spectra. About 233+/-13 mg of pure chrysophanol and 773+/-40 mg of pure pachybasin were recovered per kg of solid cultural medium, with yields 1.7+/-0.2% and 5.6+/-0.5%, respectively.
In vitro biocontrol analysis of Alternaria alternata (Fr.) Keissler under different environmental conditions.	The species Trichoderma harzianum was analyzed as possible biocontrol agent of Alternaria alternata under different environmental conditions (water activity and temperature). The strains were analyzed macroscopically to obtain the Index of Dominance. The analysis was completed using two microscopic techniques. T. harzianum showed dominance on contact over A. alternata at all testing temperatures and water activities tested except at 0.95 a(w) and 15 degrees C, at which T. harzianum inhibited A. alternata at a distance. Biocontrol was governed by different mechanisms such as competition for space and nutrients, mycoparasitism, and possible antibiosis. Temperature and water activity significantly influenced fungal growth rate.
9-epi-Viridiol, a novel cytotoxic furanosteroid from soil fungus Trichoderma virens.	A novel furanosteroid named 9-epi-viridiol (1), along with viridiol (2) and mevalonic acid (3), was isolated from Trichoderma virens. The structure of 1 was verified by combined spectroscopic data (COSY, HSQC, HMBC and NOESY) to be a C-9 epimer of viridiol. 9-epi-Viridiol exhibited cytotoxicity towards HeLa and KB cells with IC50 values of 19 and 50 microg mL(-1), respectively.
The fungal secondary metabolite trichodimerol inhibits TGF-β dependent cellular effects and tube formation of MDA-MB-231 cells.	The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family of ligands has a pivotal role as regulators of cell growth, differentiation and migration. Overexpression of TGF-beta has been associated with breast, colon, hepatocellular, lung and pancreatic cancer. Importantly, overexpression of TGF-beta correlates with tumor progression, metastasis, angiogenesis and poor prognostic outcome. Therefore, TGF-beta signaling has emerged as an attractive target for the development of new cancer therapeutics. In a search for metabolites from fungi inhibiting the TGF-beta dependent expression of a reporter gene in HepG2 cells, we found that trichodimerol, a previously isolated bisorbicillinoid, inhibited serine phosphorylation of the TGF-beta activated Smad2/3 transcription factors and antagonized the cellular effects of TGF-beta including reporter gene activation and expression of TGF-beta inducible genes in HepG2 and MDA-MB-231 cells. In addition, trichodimerol blocked IFN-gamma, IL-6 and IL-4 induced activation of Stat1, Stat3 and Stat6 transcription factors by inhibiting serine and tyrosine phosphorylation. In an in vitro angiogenesis assay, 20 muM trichodimerol completely abrogated the capillary-like tube formation of MDA-MB-231 cells on Matrigel.
Trichoderone, a novel cytotoxic cyclopentenone and cholesta-7, 22-diene-3 beta, 5 alpha, 6 beta-triol, with new activities from the marine-derived fungus Trichoderma sp.	The historical paradigm of the deep ocean as a biological 'desert' has shifted to one of a 'rainforest' owing to the isolation of many novel microbes and their associated bioactive compounds. To explore the potential of the bioactive compounds in our marine microbial natural product library, we screened it for the selective cytotoxicity of six different cancer cell lines to human normal lung fibroblast cell line HLF. The crude extract from a marine-derived fungal strain showed notable selectivity against cancer cell lines. For a bioactivity-guided fractionation and purification, a novel cyclopentenone, (-)-(4R *, 5S *)-3-ethyl-4,5-dihydroxycyclopent-2-enone (1, trichoderone), and a known compound with new activity, cholesta-7,22- diene-3 beta,5 alpha,6 beta-triol (2), were identified from a marine Trichoderma sp. that was isolated from the deep sea sediment of the South China Sea. Their structures were determined by NMR and MS data analyses. Trichoderone (1) displayed potent cytotoxicity against a panel of six cancer cell lines, whereas it did not show much cytotoxicity against normal human lung fibroblast cell line HLF even at a concentration of 7.02 mM. The selectivity index (SI) value for 1 was greater than 100. To the best of our knowledge, both compounds were isolated from marine fungi for the first time. They also exhibited bioactivities against HIV protease and Taq DNA polymerase. Optimization of the compounds would shed new light on treating cancer and infectious diseases.
Enhancement of domoic acid neurotoxicity on Diptera larvae bioassay by marine fungal metabolites.	Peptaibols are small linear fungal peptides which are produced in the marine environment. They exhibit neurotoxicity by forming pores in neuronal membranes. This work describes their combine effect with domoic acid, a neurotoxic phycotoxin, on Diptera larvae. The Acute toxicity bioassay on this biological model was tested with a panel of different toxins (microbial, algal or fungal). It allowed the discrimination of neurotoxins and non-neurotoxic toxins, and an evaluation of the toxicity level (MED and ED(50)) which were correlated with published LD(50) in mice for neurotoxins tested. The highest activities on this test were found for Na(+) channel blockers tetrodotoxin (ED(50) = 0.026 mg/kg) and saxitoxin (ED(50) = 0.18 mg/kg). Domoic acid was less active with an ED(50) = 7.6 mg/kg. For synergism study, longibrachin-A-I, a 20-mer peptaibol isolated from cultures of a marine-derived strain of Trichoderma longibrachiatum Rifai was chosen. Bioassay results confirmed its neuroactivity. Its level of toxicity (ED(50) = 270 mg/kg) was lower than those of phycotoxins tested but higher than mycotoxin ones. Injected together, longibrachin-A-I and domoic acid exhibited an increase of their activities. With doses of longibrachin-A-I below its Minimal Effective Dose (MED), the synergism factor which expresses the enhancement of domoic acid toxicity could reach 34.5. Both domoic acid and longibrachin-A-I are acting on ion channels and pores in neuronal membranes which contribute to the intake of Ca(2+) into cells.
Overexpression of the trichodiene synthase gene tri5 increases trichodermin production and antimicrobial activity in Trichoderma brevicompactum.	Trichoderma brevicompactum produces trichodermin, a simple trichothecene-type toxin that shares the first steps of the sesquiterpene biosynthetic pathway with other phytotoxic trichothecenes from Fusarium spp. Trichodiene synthase catalyses the conversion of farnesyl pyrophosphate to trichodiene and it is encoded by the tri5 gene that was cloned and analysed functionally by homologous overexpression in T. brevicompactum. tri5 expression was up-regulated in media with glucose, H(2)O(2) or glycerol. tri5 repression was observed in cultures supplemented with the antioxidants ferulic acid and tyrosol. Acetone extracts of tri5-overexpressing transformants displayed higher antifungal activity than those from the wild-type. Chromatographic and spectroscopic analyses revealed that tri5 overexpression led to an increased production of trichodermin and tyrosol. Agar diffusion assays with these two purified metabolites from the tri5-overexpressing transformant T. brevicompactum Tb41tri5 showed that only trichodermin had antifungal activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Kluyveromyces marxianus, Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida tropicalis and Aspergillus fumigatus, in most cases such activity being higher than that observed for amphotericin B and hygromycin. Our results point to the significant role of tri5 in the production of trichodermin and in the antifungal activity of T. brevicompactum.
Heterologous expression of surface-active proteins from barley and filamentous fungi in Pichia pastoris and characterization of their contribution to beer gushing.	The spontaneous over-foaming of beer upon opening, i.e. beer gushing, is an unwanted phenomenon for the brewing industry. Currently, surface-active proteins from filamentous fungi and non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTP1) from barley are discussed as gushing inducers. In our study the class I hydrophobin FcHyd3p from Fusarium culmorum, the class II hydrophobin Hfb2 from Trichoderma reesei, the alkaline foam protein A (AfpA) from F. graminearum and nsLTP1 from Hordeum vulgare cv. Marnie (barley) were heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris and used in gushing tests. The class I hydrophobin FcHyd3p was unable to induce gushing in beer. The class II hydrophobin Hfb2 was able to induce gushing in beer, but proved to be inhibited by heat treatment as well as by the presence of enriched hop compounds. Both resulted in a reduced gushing potential. AfpA and nsLTP1 exhibited no gushing-inducing potential at the amounts added to beer. Addition of these proteins to beer or carbonated water previously treated with class II hydrophobins revealed a gushing reducing character.
Restructuring the crystalline cellulose hydrogen bond network enhances its depolymerization rate.	Conversion of lignocellulose to biofuels is partly inefficient due to the deleterious impact of cellulose crystallinity on enzymatic saccharification. We demonstrate how the synergistic activity of cellulases was enhanced by altering the hydrogen bond network within crystalline cellulose fibrils. We provide a molecular-scale explanation of these phenomena through molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and enzymatic assays. Ammonia transformed the naturally occurring crystalline allomorph I(β) to III(I), which led to a decrease in the number of cellulose intrasheet hydrogen bonds and an increase in the number of intersheet hydrogen bonds. This rearrangement of the hydrogen bond network within cellulose III(I), which increased the number of solvent-exposed glucan chain hydrogen bonds with water by ~50%, was accompanied by enhanced saccharification rates by up to 5-fold (closest to amorphous cellulose) and 60-70% lower maximum surface-bound cellulase capacity. The enhancement in apparent cellulase activity was attributed to the "amorphous-like" nature of the cellulose III(I) fibril surface that facilitated easier glucan chain extraction. Unrestricted substrate accessibility to active-site clefts of certain endocellulase families further accelerated deconstruction of cellulose III(I). Structural and dynamical features of cellulose III(I), revealed by MD simulations, gave additional insights into the role of cellulose crystal structure on fibril surface hydration that influences interfacial enzyme binding. Subtle alterations within the cellulose hydrogen bond network provide an attractive way to enhance its deconstruction and offer unique insight into the nature of cellulose recalcitrance. This approach can lead to unconventional pathways for development of novel pretreatments and engineered cellulases for cost-effective biofuels production.
Creation of a heterologous gene expression system on the basis of Aspergillus awamori recombinant strain]	A heterologous gene expression system was created in a domestic Aspergillus awamori Co-6804 strain, which is a producer of the glucoamylase gene. Vector pGa was prepared using promoter and terminator areas of the glucoamylase gene, and A. niger phytase, Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase, and Penicillium canescens xylanase genes were then cloned into pGa vector. Separation of enzyme samples using FPLC showed the amount of the recombinant proteins to be within the 0.6-14% range of total protein.
Antimicrobial peptides peptaibols from trichoderma--a review]	Peptaibols are a family of antimicrobial peptides, which are synthesized by non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) and contain high proportions of alpha-aminoisobytyric acid (Aib). Up to now, 317 peptaibols have been identified, and the majority of them are produced by Trichoderma strains. In this review, we described the diversity, fermation, purification, identification and biosynthesis of peptaibols from Trichoderma.
Action-mechanism of trichoderin A, an anti-dormant mycobacterial aminolipopeptide from marine sponge-derived Trichoderma sp.	In the course of our search for anti-dormant mycobacterial substances from marine organisms, we previously isolated three new aminolipopeptides, named trichoderins A, A1 and B, from the culture of the marine sponge-derived fungus of Trichoderma sp. and determined their chemical structures. To identify the gene that could confer a resistance to trichoderin A, we prepared transformants of Mycobacterium (M.) smegmatis, which were transformed with the genomic DNA library of M. bovis BCG constructed in the multi-copy shuttle cosmid pYUB145. Then, the transformant of M. smegmatis, which over-expressed a part of genes that coded mycobacterial ATP synthase, was found to exhibit a resistance to trichoderin A. In addition, trichoderin A reduced ATP contents in M. bovis BCG. These findings elucidated that the anti-mycobacterial activity of trichoderins comes from the inhibition of ATP synthesis.
A cellulolytic Hypocrea strain isolated from South American brave straw produces a modular xylanase.	Cellulase-producing fungi from the Andean regions in Bolivia, an ecosystem characterized as an extreme arid highland, were studied. Thirty-two isolates were screened for presence of cellulase activity using carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) as carbon source, and activity was confirmed using a filter paper assay. One isolate, denoted as BLT1C was selected from this screening, and sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) classified the strain as Hypocrea lixii. The secretome of BLT1C showed high xylanase activity (compared to that of two reference Trichoderma reesei strains) when cultivated using brave straw, an abundant native grass from the area, as carbon source. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed three main protein-bands (18, 32 and 65 kDa) and in-gel digestion and mass spectrometry combined with activity analysis showed that these proteins were active xylanases with molecular masses corresponding to (I) a single glycoside hydrolase family 11 catalytic module (18 kDa), and (II, III) modular enzymes, with the GH11 catalytic domain connected to a module of unknown function (32 kDa) or putatively connected to a GH7 catalytic module (65 kDa). The N-terminal sequence of the 65 kDa xylanase did not show significant sequence similarities to deposited sequences. The collected data on xylanase activity, molecular mass, GH11-sequence conservation, combined with lack of sequence similarities in the N-terminus show that the 65 kDa band corresponds to a novel modular xylanase.
Characterization and production optimization of a chitinase (Tachil) from Trichoderma asperellum in recombinant Pichia pastoris expression system]	We characterized a chitinase (Tachi1) from Trichoderma asperellum and optimized its production conditions, by methanol induction of the recombinant strain Pichia pastoris GS-tachi1-K transformed with the gene tachi1 (GenBank accession: GU457411).
Trichocyalides A and B, new inhibitors of alkaline phosphatase activity in bone morphogenetic protein-stimulated myoblasts, produced by Trichoderma sp. FKI-5513.	Two new butenolides, designated trichocyalides A and B, were isolated along with the known compound harzianolide, from the culture broth of Trichoderma sp. FKI-5513 by solvent extraction, ODS column chromatography and HPLC. Their structures were elucidated by several spectral analyses, showing that they have the common skeleton of butenofuranone. Trichocyalides A and B inhibited alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, a typical marker enzyme of osteoblastic differentiation (IC(50): 83.0 and 187 μM, respectively), in bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-stimulated C2C12 myoblasts mutant cells, which stably express BMP receptor activity, whereas harzianolide showed no inhibitory activity against ALP even at 500 μM.
Two new antibiotic pyridones produced by a marine fungus, Trichoderma sp. strain MF106.	Two unusual pyridones, trichodin A (1) and trichodin B (2), together with the known compound, pyridoxatin (3), were extracted from mycelia and culture broth of the marine fungus, Trichoderma sp. strain MF106 isolated from the Greenland Seas. The structures of the new compounds were characterized as an intramolecular cyclization of a pyridine basic backbone with a phenyl group. The structure and relative configuration of the new compounds were established by spectroscopic means. The new compound 1 and the known compound 3 showed antibiotic activities against the clinically relevant microorganism, Staphylococcus epidermidis, with IC₅₀ values of 24 μM and 4 μM, respectively.
Antifungal metabolites from Trichoderma harzianum.	A detailed examination of the metabolites produced in liquid cultures by a strain of Trichoderma harzianum, isolated from wheat roots, has resulted in the identification of a further five metabolites. Two of these, cyclonerodiol [5] and the octaketide keto diol 6, have previously been isolated from a strain of Trichoderma koningii. The structures of the three new octaketide-derived compounds 7, 8, and 10 have been deduced from spectroscopic and chemical studies. All newly isolated compounds show antibiotic activity towards the take-all fungus, Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici.
Pathway for Ca2+ influx into cells by trichosporin-B-VIa, an alpha-aminoisobutyric acid-containing peptide, from the fungus Trichoderma polysporum.	Trichosporin (TS) -B-VIa, a fungal alpha-aminoisobutyric acid (Aib) -containing peptide consisting of 19 amino acid residues and a phenylalaninol, produced both 45Ca2+ influx into bovine adrenal chromaffin cells and catecholamine secretion from the cells. The secretion induced by TS-B-VIa at lower concentrations (2-5 microM) was completely dependent on the external Ca2+, while that induced by TS-B-VIa at higher concentrations (10-30 microM) was partly independent of the Ca2+. The concentration-response curves (2-5 microM) for the TS-B-VIa-induced Ca2+ influx and secretion correlated well. The TS-B-VIa (at 5 microM) -induced secretion was not antagonized by diltiazem, a blocker of L-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. The treatment of fura-2-loaded C6 glioma cells with TS-B-VIa (2-5 microM) led to an increase in the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in a concentration-dependent manner but the stimulatory effects of TS-B-VIa on [Ca2+]i were only slightly observed in Ca(2+)-free medium, indicating that TS-B-VIa causes Ca2+ influx from the external medium into the C6 cells. The TS-B-VIa-induced increase in [Ca2+]i in the C6 cells was not antagonized by diltiazem and by SK&F 96365, a novel blocker of receptor-mediated Ca2+ entry. High K+ increased neither [Ca2+]1 in the C6 cells nor Mn2+ influx into the cells, while TS-B-VIa increased Mn2+ influx. Also in other non-excitable cells, bovine platelets, similar results were obtained. These results strongly suggest that the mechanism of Ca2+ influx by TS-B-VIa at the lower concentrations is distinct from the event of Ca2+ influx through receptor-operated or L-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels in both excitable cells (the chrornaffin cells) and non-excitable cells (the C6 cells and the platelets) and that TS-B-VIa per se may form Ca(2+)-permeable ion channels in biological membranes. On the other hand, the peptide at the higher concentrations seems to damage cell membranes.
