Effects of trichlorfon on progesterone production in cultured human granulosa-lutein cells.	Trichlorfon, a widely used organophophorus pesticide, has been reported to disrupt reproductive function in human and animal. However, the mechanisms have not been clearly elucidated. In the present study, the effects of trichlorfon on the biosynthesis of progesterone in the primary human granulosa-lutein cells (hGLCs) and the related pathway were investigated. Results showed that progesterone production in hGLCs treated with trichlorfon decreased significantly while cell viability was not affected. Trichlorfon also inhibited FSH-stimulated progesterone production, and this inhibition could not be reversed by 8-bromo-cAMP. However, trichlorfon did not affect the intracellular cAMP contents in the basal and FSH-stimulated conditions. These results suggested that the site in the steroid biosynthesis pathway affected by trichlorfon occurred downstream of PKA activation in hGLCs. Furthermore, our results found that 22(R)-hydroxycholesterol (22R-HC) could remove the inhibitory action of trichlorfon on progesterone biosynthesis, indicating that trichlorfon caused a disruption of cholesterol transport across mitochondrial membranes, which was further confirmed by the observation that trichlorfon dose-dependently inhibited the mRNA level of the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR). These results suggested that trichlorfon inhibited steroidogenesis in hGLCs by reducing StAR gene expression, which may further contribute to the pathogenesis of trichlorfon-induced reproductive dysfunction.
Antibacterial effect of some combinations of pesticides of pure cultures of microorganisms.	The investigations conducted showed that the antibacterial effect of dinitro-o-cresol, cuprozane, and trichlorfon is due to their chemical structure and to the species of microorganisms on which they act. Dinitro-o-cresol and Cuprozane possess selective toxicity with respect to B. anthracis and Rh. gracilis and cuprozane with respect to Ch. perfringens. The method of evaluating the effect of combinations of chemical compounds consisting of two or more components which have been developed made it possible to detect the antibacterial effect of mixtures consisting of the indicated pesticides. It was established that the combinations studied possess synergic and additive effects, which also depend on the chemical structure of the pesticides and the species of microorganisms.
Relative fitness of three organophosphate-resistant strains of Culex pipiens pallens (Diptera: Culicidae).	Effects of dipterex, temephos, and chlorpyrifos resistance on the relative fitness of Culex pipiens pallens (L.) were evaluated by examining developmental and reproductive characteristics. Age-specific life tables of Dip-R- (dipterex), Tmo-R- (temephos), and Chl-R- (chlorpyrifos) resistant strains were compared with the susceptible strain to determine relative fitness based on population trend indices (I). The 3 organophosphate-resistant strains possessed reproductive and developmental disadvantages involving fecundity and survival relative compared with the susceptible strain, with relative fitness values of 0.465, 0.520, and 0.501, respectively. These results are discussed in relation to the reversal from resistance to susceptibility in natural populations of mosquitoes.
