Doppler echocardiographic evaluation of right ventricular diastolic function in isolated valvular aortic stenosis.	Left ventricular diastolic function (LVDF) in patients with aortic stenosis (AS) has been adequately studied, in contrast to right ventricular diastolic function (RVDF). In this study, RVDF in patients with AS was evaluated using pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiography.
Echocardiographic changes in a defect of the interatrial septum]	The echocardiographic changes in 43 patients with defects of the interrauricular septum, confirmed by catherization were studied. In 42 out of 43 (98%) cases considerably enlarged dimensions of the right ventricle and right auricle were found. Paradoxical movement of the interventricular septum was found in 39 out of 43 (91%) cases. The paradoxical movement of the interventricular septum is characterized by a considerable amplitude towards the right venticle. The tricupid valve shows an increased amplitude of opening (CE), enlarged A wave, accelerated speed of opening (OE segment), accelerated speed of backward movement in early diastole (EG segment) and decelerated closing (AC segment). The enlarged dimensions of the right ventricle, the paradoxical movements of interventricular septum and the changes of the tricupid valve are a characteristic EchoC-triad, never absent in the hemodynamically significant volume loading of right ventricle, originating from the left-right shunt at an auricle level.
Effects of the reduction of preload on left and right ventricular myocardial velocities analyzed by Doppler tissue echocardiography in healthy subjects.	Previous studies using Doppler Tissue Echocardiography (DTE) have suggested that the early-diastolic myocardial velocity behaves as a relatively load-independent index of left ventricular relaxation in patients with cardiac diseases; it is not ascertained if this holds true also in normal human hearts.
Echocardiographic diagnosis of pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum.	The echocardiographic features of pulmonary valvar atresia with intact ventricular septum are described. The pulmonary valve fails to open during systole: there is a large pre-systolic 'a' wave dip, but the pulmonary valve membrane then returns to its closed diastolic position where it remains for the remainder of the cardiac cycle. The echocardiogram also provides valuable information about right ventricular size, the tricuspid valve, and aorta-mitral and aorta-septal relations.
Screening for pulmonary hypertension in systemic sclerosis: the longitudinal development of tricuspid gradient in 227 consecutive patients, 1992-2001.	To evaluate the longitudinal development of the tricuspid gradient (TG) for screening for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in systemic sclerosis (SSc).
Quantification of tricuspid insufficiency--comparison of Doppler echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography]	In 40 patients (pts) (ages 34-83 years) the severity of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) was graded by pulsed Doppler echocardiographic determination of regurgitant jet extension. Mild TR was assessed in seven pts (group I), mode-rate TR in 20 pts (group II), and severe TR in 13 pts (group III). The enddiastolic diameter of the left ventricle as measured by M-mode-echocardiography was 55 +/- 16 mm in group I, 48 +/- 6 mm in group II, and 50 +/- 10 mm in group III. The regurgitant index (RI), i.e., the ratio of left-to-right-ventricular stroke counts (normal range 0.89-1.97) and the time-activity curve over the liver area were measured by equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography (RNV). The RI differed significantly between group I (1.6 +/- 0.5), II (1.0 +/- 0.3), and III (0.8 +/- 0.3) (p less than 0.01). An RI-value below 0.89 as an index of right-ventricular volume overload was found in 14% (group I), 45%, (group II) and 77% (group III). The time-activity curve over the liver area, as graded by count variation in phase with the right atrium from 1 (no count variation) to 4 (typical count variation) showed all grades in groups I and II, but only grade 2 to 4 in group III. The RI resp. the time-activity curve over the liver is a sensitive parameter for the detection of moderate to severe TR. If TR is ascertained, severe regurgitation can be differentiated from mild regurgitation by RNV-derived RI as an index of right-ventricular volume overload.
Tricuspid valve tethering predicts residual tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid annuloplasty.	Tricuspid valve (TV) annuloplasty is recommended for functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR), which is caused by TV annulus dilatation and tethering of the leaflets. However, the impact of TV deformations on the outcome of TV annuloplasty remains unknown. The goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between preoperative TV deformation and residual TR after TV annuloplasty.
Functional analysis of bioprosthetic heart valves.	Glutaraldehyde-treated bovine pericardium is used successfully as bioprosthetic material in the manufacturing of heart valves leaflets. The mechanical properties of bovine pericardial aortic valve leaflets seem to influence its mechanical behaviour and the failure mechanisms. In this study the effect of orthotropy on tricuspid bioprosthetic aortic valve was analysed, using a three-dimensional finite element model, during the entire cardiac cycle. Multiaxial tensile tests were also performed to determine the anisotropy of pericardium. Seven different models of the same valve were analysed using different values of mechanical characteristics from one leaflet to another, considering pericardium as an orthotropic material. The results showed that even a small difference between values along the two axes of orthotropy can negatively influence leaflets performance as regard both displacement and stress distribution. Leaflets of bovine pericardium bioprostheses could be manufactured to be similar to natural human heart valves reproducing their well-known anisotropy. In this way it could be possible to improve the manufacturing process, durability and function of pericardial bioprosthetic valves.
The importance of tricuspid valve structure and function in the surgical treatment of rheumatic mitral and aortic disease.	A significant proportion of individuals with rheumatic disease have tricuspid valve involvement which may be clinically important and alter the medical or surgical approach to treatment. Therefore 50 patients with rheumatic left-sided valvular lesions who were referred for operative treatment were studied. Thirty patients had angiographically significant tricuspid regurgitation (group I) and 20 had a competent tricuspid valve (group II). Pre-operative cardiac assessment included Doppler echocardiography and contrast ventriculography. Patients with tricuspid regurgitation more commonly had mitral valve disease or combined mitral and aortic valve lesions, (P less than 0.001) and were more likely to have atrial fibrillation than those without tricuspid regurgitation (P less than 0.001). Pulmonary arterial systolic and mean right atrial pressures were higher in group I (both P less than 0.01). A close relationship was found between the angiographic and Doppler assessment of the degree of tricuspid regurgitation (P less than 0.01). Doppler-derived measurement of the right ventricular-right atrial systolic pressure difference correlated well with the systolic trans-tricuspid pressure difference measured at cardiac catheterization (y = 0.7x + 22, r = 0.67, P less than 0.001) and the pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (y = 0.8x + 27, r = 0.71, P less than 0.001). Rheumatic involvement of the tricuspid valve identified by pre-operative echocardiography was confirmed in five patients at surgery. Of the 13 patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation at operation, only two had been diagnosed as having organic disease by echocardiography. Furthermore, in all 18 cases where Doppler suggested grade 3 or 4+ tricuspid regurgitation, surgical repair or replacement of the valve was performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Relation of tricuspid inflow E-wave peak velocity to severity of tricuspid regurgitation.	E-wave velocity in mitral flow has previously been shown to discriminate between severe and nonsevere mitral regurgitation. In this study, we sought to explore this association in the tricuspid position. The peak velocity of the tricuspid inflow E wave was measured in 118 patients (mean age 62 +/- 16.6 years; 48% women). Patients with tricuspid stenosis, transvenous pacemakers, and tricuspid prostheses were excluded. E-wave measurements were taken during shallow breathing. Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) was quantified as none or mild (group 1), moderate (group 2), or severe (group 3), according to American Society of Echocardiography guidelines. Forty-three patients had mild TR, 43 had moderate TR, and 33 had severe TR. Peak E-wave velocity was 48.6 +/- 13.8, 48.6 +/- 11.7, and 78.3 +/- 26.1 cm/s in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (p > 0.0001). Mean E-wave velocity was similar in groups 1 and 2 but greater in group 3 (p < 0.0001). A peak E-wave velocity of > or = 65 cm/s had a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 88% for the detection of severe TR. In conclusion, increased peak tricuspid E-wave velocity is associated with severe TR and thus can be used as a simple measure of TR grade.
The cone reconstruction of the tricuspid valve in Ebstein's anomaly. The operation: early and midterm results.	We sought to describe a new technique for tricuspid valve repair in Ebstein's anomaly and to report early echocardiographic results, as well as early and midterm clinical outcomes.
Pulmonary hypertension and left heart function: insights from tissue Doppler imaging and myocardial performance index.	As a consequence of a leftward shift of the interventricular septum and of pericardial restraint, related to the degree RV dilatation, left heart function would be influenced after pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure.
The impact of hypertension and hypertension-related left ventricle hypertrophy on right ventricle function.	The aim of our study is to determine the effect of hypertension and hypertension-related left ventricle hypertrophy on right ventricle (RV) morphology and function by using RV standard Doppler echocardiographic indices, myocardial Doppler imaging, and strain/strain rate imaging indices.
Two-dimensional assessment of right ventricular function: an echocardiographic-MRI correlative study.	While echocardiography is used most frequently to assess right ventricular (RV) function in clinical practice, echocardiography is limited in its ability to provide an accurate measure of RV ejection fraction (RVEF). Hence, quantitative estimation of RV function has proven difficult in clinical practice.
Tissue Doppler imaging in the evaluation of the left and right ventricular diastolic functions in rheumatoid arthritis.	Previous studies have reported that cardiovascular involvement in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) occurs frequently. Although ventricular functions of RA have been investigated through the standard Doppler in RA, they have yet to be investigated thoroughly by means of the relatively new and advantageous tissue Doppler imaging (TDI). The present study aims to investigate left and right ventricular functions in RA patients by means of TDI and standard Doppler echocardiography.
A very narrow preexisting isthmus in a case with typical atrial flutter.	A 61-year-old woman with typical atrial flutter underwent an electrophysiologic study and radiofrequency catheter ablation. The electroanatomic mapping revealed two contiguous lines of distinct double potentials (DPs) extending anteriorly/posteriorly from the coronary sinus ostium to the inferior vena cava (IVC) border. A large part of the anterior line of the DPs was close and parallel to the tricuspid annulus (TA). An initial discrete radiofrequency application at the very narrow preexisting isthmus between the TA and anterior line of the DPs completed the IVC-TA isthmus conduction block.
Catheter motion during atrial ablation due to the beating heart and respiration: impact on accuracy and spatial referencing in three-dimensional mapping.	The accuracy of three-dimensional mapping systems is affected by cardiac contraction and respiration.
Right ventricular myocardial isovolumic relaxation time as novel method for evaluation of pulmonary hypertension: correlation with endothelin-1 levels.	Noninvasive assessment of pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) has several limitations. Right ventricular (RV) isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) is sensitive to changes in PASP. Blood pool-derived RV IVRT correlates well with PASP. However, because of complex parameter derivation, the method is rarely used. Endothelin (ET)-1 levels are elevated in congestive heart failure in relation with the severity of pulmonary hypertension.
Geometric changes of tricuspid valve tenting in tricuspid regurgitation secondary to pulmonary hypertension quantified by novel system with transthoracic real-time 3-dimensional echocardiography.	Geometric changes of tricuspid valve, particularly leaflets configuration, in functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR) remain to be defined. We sought to investigate geometric changes of tricuspid valve tenting in functional TR secondary to pulmonary hypertension by transthoracic real-time 3-dimensional echocardiography (3DE). Real-time 3DE was performed in 30 individuals (17 patients with TR and 13 control subjects). We used a novel software system with 3DE to reconstruct tricuspid geometry at midsystole. In patients with TR, tricuspid leaflets were tethered into right ventricle with apparent tenting showing a mountain-like bulging. Maximum tenting site was mostly located at the center of the tenting. Tenting volume was larger (4.2 +/- 2.4 vs 1.1 +/- 0.6 cm(3), P < .001), and the maximum and mean tenting lengths were longer, than in control subjects. Annular area was also larger (11.3 +/- 2.3 vs 8.7 +/- 1.8 cm(2), P = .003) than in control subjects. Geometric changes in functional TR secondary to pulmonary hypertension were characterized by enlargement of tricuspid tenting volume and dilatation of annulus. This study suggested usefulness of the novel system with 3DE in evaluation of tricuspid valve geometry.
Tricuspid annular motion as a predictor of severe right ventricular failure after left ventricular assist device implantation.	Right ventricular (RV) failure after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation is associated with a high rate of morbidity and mortality. We sought to determine pre-operative right heart echocardiographic predictors of post-LVAD severe RV failure.
Superior vena cava flow and tricuspid anular motion after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, and role of right atrial relaxation on systolic venous return.	To determine whether atrial relaxation or systolic descent of the tricuspid anulus is the predominant factor determining systolic venous return, 22 patients with atrial fibrillation were studied. Venous return (i.e., superior vena cava (SVC) flow) was measured using pulsed Doppler echocardiography. Systolic descent of the tricuspid anulus (i.e., total excursion of tricuspid anulus during systole) was also measured using echocardiography. Serial examinations were performed before and after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation in 15 patients. In 11 patients, both the total excursion of the tricuspid anulus and SVC flow were examined in relation to the ratio of the preceding to the pre-preceding RR interval (R2/R1). Systolic forward flow of SVC increased as the ratio of late diastolic to total excursion of the tricuspid anulus (i.e., right atrial systolic function) increased. It correlated significantly with the ratio of late diastolic to total excursion of the tricuspid anulus but not with total excursion. Total excursion of the tricuspid anulus correlated significantly with R2/R1, but systolic forward flow of SVC did not. These results indicate that atrial relaxation rather than systolic descent of the tricuspid anulus was the predominant factor determining systolic forward flow in the SVC.
Doppler echocardiographic evaluation of pulmonary artery pressure in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A European multicentre study. Working Group on Noninvasive Evaluation of Pulmonary Artery Pressure. European Office of the World Health Organization, Copenhagen.	The feasibility, reproducibility and reliability of Doppler echocardiography in evaluation of pulmonary artery pressure in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were determined in a multicentre study. In 100 COPD patients with mean pulmonary artery pressure ranging from 10 to 62 mmHg at cardiac catheterization, pulmonary pressure estimation was attempted by four Doppler echocardiographic methods. These methods comprised the calculation of transtricuspid and transpulmonary pressure gradients from Doppler-detected tricuspid or pulmonary regurgitation, the evaluation of right ventricular outflow tract velocity profiles with the measurement of right ventricular systolic time intervals and the measurement of the right ventricular isovolumic relaxation time. In 98 (98%) patients at least one of the methods could be employed. A tricuspid regurgitation jet was detected in 47 (47%) patients but its quality was adequate for measurement in 30 (30%). Pulmonary regurgitation jet velocity was measured only in five cases. The standard error of estimate in testing intra- and interobserver reproducibility of Doppler systolic time intervals was less than 5%. The predictive value of right ventricular outflow tract acceleration time less than 90 ms in the identification of patients with mean pulmonary artery pressure greater than 20 mmHg was 80%. Of Doppler echocardiographic data, best correlations with mean pulmonary artery pressure were found for the transtricupid gradient (r = 0.73, SEE = 7.4 mmHg), for the right ventricular acceleration time (r = 0.65, SEE = 8 mmHg) and right ventricular isovolumic relaxation time (r = 0.61, SEE = 8.5 mmHg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of chronic pulmonary hypertension on diastolic annular tissue velocities: a pilot study.	Tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) of mitral (MA) and tricuspid annular (TA) events has been shown to describe systolic and diastolic properties of each respective ventricle. However, the effect of chronic elevations in pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) on individual diastolic annular velocities has not been well characterized.
Pulmonary hypertension in children with sickle cell disease.	Pulmonary hypertension and cor pulmonale have long been known to be complications of sickle cell disease, thought mostly to affect the adult population. Recently, pediatric studies in sickle cell patients have uncovered a similar prevalence of elevated tricuspid regurgitation jet velocities, a finding consistent with increased right-sided pressures, when compared with adult counterparts. Implications on mortality to date, while significant in the adult sickle cell population, appear to be unsubstantiated in children and adolescents. We review the recent literature in an attempt to discuss the prevalence, etiology and implications of an elevated tricuspid regurgitation jet velocity in pediatric sickle cell patients. We also suggest screening, diagnostics, treatment and follow-up plans that may improve the disease burden of pulmonary hypertension in both pediatric and adult sickle cell populations.
Cryoablation of ventricular arrhythmias originating from septal aspects of mitral and tricuspid annulus]	Two cases of frequent ventricular ectopy are described. Case one: a 49 year-old woman with post myocarditis extrasytoles (34 000/24 h). The ectopic focus was located on the tricuspid annulus - directly in the area of largest and sharpest His bundle potential and where direct His bundle capture was observed during all pace mapping attempts. Case two: a 15 year- -old men with idiopathic, very frequent premature ventricular beats from septal aspect of the mitral annulus. The area of earliest activation during the spontaneous ectopy with 12/12 pace map match showed obvious His bundle potential, moreover, the radiofrequency ablation catheter was unstable in that position (inferoseptal from retrograde aortic approach). In both cases treatment with cryoablation was successfully and uneventful. In conclusion, cryoablation instead of radiofrequency current ablation should be used for ventricular ectopy from septal part of the tricuspid or mitral annuli especially in cases of parahisian localisation and/or catheter instability.
B-type natriuretic peptide and amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide in pediatric patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.	B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and the amino-terminal fragment (NTproBNP) correlate with clinical variables, but have not been simultaneously studied in a large number of pediatric patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The purpose of our investigation was to compare BNP and NTproBNP with clinical indicators of disease in a pediatric PAH population for which biomarkers are much needed.
Tricuspid regurgitation after successful mitral valve surgery.	The tricuspid valve (TV) is inseparably connected with the mitral valve (MV) in terms of function. Any pathophysiological condition concerning the MV is potentially a threat for the normal function of the TV as well. One of the most challenging cases is functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR) after surgical MV correction. In the past, TR was considered to progressively revert with time after left-sided valve restoration. Nevertheless, more recent studies showed that TR could develop and evolve postoperatively over time, as well as being closely associated with a poorer prognosis in terms of morbidity and mortality. Pressure and volume overload are usually the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms; structural alterations, like tricuspid annulus dilatation, increased leaflet tethering and right ventricular remodelling are almost always present when regurgitation develops. The most important risk factors associated with a higher probability of late TR development involve the elderly, female gender, larger left atrial size, atrial fibrillation, right chamber dilatation, higher pulmonary artery systolic pressures, longer times from the onset of MV disease to surgery, history of rheumatic heart disease, ischaemic heart disease and prosthetic valve malfunction. The time of TR manifestation can be up to 10 years or more after an MV surgery. Echocardiography, including the novel 3D Echo techniques, is crucial in the early diagnosis and prognosis of future TV disease development. Appropriate surgical technique and timing still need to be clarified.
Systolic right ventricular function in children and young adults with pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease and tetralogy of Fallot: tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and magnetic resonance imaging data.	  The tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE), as echocardiographic index to assess right ventricular (RV) systolic function, has not been investigated thoroughly in children and young adults with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) and pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease (PAH-CHD).
The Medtronic Melody® transcatheter pulmonary valve implanted at 24-mm diameter--it works.	We report the Melody valve implanted and/or expanded to 24-mm diameter.
Role of tricuspid valve repair for moderate tricuspid regurgitation during minimally invasive mitral valve surgery.	The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of short- and mid-term survival of tricuspid valve (TV) repair versus conservative therapy in patients with preoperative moderate functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR) undergoing minimally invasive mitral valve (MV) surgery.
Lead dependent tricuspid dysfunction: Analysis of the mechanism and management in patients referred for transvenous lead extraction.	Lead-dependent tricuspid dysfunction (LDTD) is one of important complications in patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices. However, this phenomenon is probably underestimated because of an improper interpretation of its clinical symptoms. The aim of this study was to identify LDTD mechanisms and management in patients referred for transvenous lead extraction (TLE) due to lead-dependent complications.
Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure relationship in heart failure: an index of right ventricular contractile function and prognosis.	Echo-derived pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PASP) and right ventricular (RV) tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE; from the end of diastole to end-systole) are of basic relevance in the clinical follow-up of heart failure (HF) patients, carrying two- to threefold increase in cardiac risk when increased and reduced, respectively. We hypothesized that the relationship between TAPSE (longitudinal RV fiber shortening) and PASP (force generated by the RV) provides an index of in vivo RV length-force relationship, with their ratio better disclosing prognosis. Two hundred ninety-three HF patients with reduced (HFrEF, n = 247) or with preserved left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (HFpEF, n = 46) underwent echo-Doppler studies and N-terminal pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide assessment and were tracked for adverse events. The median follow-up duration was 20.8 mo. TAPSE vs. PASP relationship showed a downward regression line shift in nonsurvivors who were more frequently presenting with higher PASP and lower TAPSE. HFrEF and HFpEF patients exhibited a similar distribution along the regression line. Given the TAPSE, PASP, and TAPSE-to-PASP ratio (TAPSE/PASP) collinearity, separate Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed: one with TAPSE and PASP as individual measures, and the other combining them in ratio form. Hazard ratios for variables retained in the multivariate regression were as follows: TAPSE/PASP </≥ 0.36 mm/mmHg [hazard ratio (HR): 10.4, P < 0.001]; TAPSE </≥ 16 mm (HR: 5.1, P < 0.01); New York Heart Association functional class </≥ 3 (HR: 4.4, P < 0.001); E/e' (HR: 4.1, P < 0.001). This study shows that the TAPSE vs. PASP relationship is shifted downward in nonsurvivors with a similar distribution in HFrEF and HFpEF, and their ratio improves prognostic resolution. The TAPSE vs. PASP relationship as a possible index of the length-force relationship may be a step forward for a more efficient RV function evaluation and is not affected by the quality of LV dysfunction.
Transcatheter Sapien valve implantation in a native tricuspid valve after failed surgical repair.	We describe the first report of a transcatheter Sapien implantation in a native tricuspid valve after multiple failed surgical repairs with a lack of prosthetic material and radiographic landmarks.
Evaluation of pulse pressure variation validity criteria in critically ill patients: a prospective observational multicentre point-prevalence study.	Respiratory variation in pulse pressure (ΔPP) is commonly used to predict the fluid responsiveness of critically ill patients. However, some researchers have demonstrated that this measurement has several limitations. The present study was designed to evaluate the proportion of patients satisfying criteria for valid application of ΔPP at a given time-point.
Non-invasive assessment of cardiac function and pulmonary vascular resistance in an canine model of acute thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension using 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance.	The purpose of this study was to quantify right (RV) and left (LV) ventricular function, pulmonary artery flow (QP), tricuspid valve regurgitation velocity (TRV), and aorta flow (QS) from a single 4D flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) (time-resolved three-directionally motion encoded CMR) sequence in a canine model of acute thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (PH).
3D echocardiographic location of implantable device leads and mechanism of associated tricuspid regurgitation.	This study sought to: 1) determine the feasibility of using 3-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography (3D TTE) in patients with implantable cardiac resynchronization devices, pacemakers, and defibrillators to visualize the device leads in the right heart and their position relative to the tricuspid valve leaflets; 2) determine the prevalence of different lead positions; and 3) study the relationship between lead location and tricuspid regurgitation (TR) severity.
Is combined myocardial performance index and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion a better predictive estimator than each of them alone in patients with inferior ST-elevation myocardial infarction?	We aimed to assess the combined estimator of left ventricular (LV) myocardial performance index (MPI) and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) as a pooled independent predictive factor for hospital mortality and one-year mortality and re-hospitalization in patients with primary LV inferior ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
Echocardiography and color-flow mapping evaluation of a new reconstructive surgical technique for Ebstein's anomaly.	Eight patients with Ebstein's anomaly, corrected by the Carpentier technique between 1984 and 1987, were evaluated by echocardiography and by conventional Doppler and color-flow Doppler mapping. Because this technique aims at restoring not only tricuspid valve function but also right ventricular size and geometry, the following parameters were studied: 1) right ventricular size, by measuring the apex-annulus distance compared with that of a group of 30 normal volunteers; and 2) tricuspid valve motion and function. The apex-annulus distance ranged from 5.8 to 8 cm (mean, 6.4 cm) in the Ebstein group and 3.8 to 5.1 cm (mean, 4.3 cm) in the control group. There was no tricuspid stenosis. Right ventricular filling was normal as documented by color-flow mapping. Tricuspid regurgitation was trivial in three patients, mild in four, and severe in only one, in whom a significantly restricted motion of the leaflets was demonstrated.
Non-invasive assessment of elevated ventricular diastolic pressures in patients with ischaemic heart disease.	For non-invasive assessment of the diastolic pressures of both ventricles, 50 patients with ischaemic heart disease were studied by combined mechano- and echocardiography. Twenty one patients had pulmonary congestion, eleven had acute mitral regurgitation and 18 had signs of left and right heart failure. All patients had undergone cardiac catheterization. The diastolic parts of apexcardiograms (left and right ACG) and the morphological alterations of mitral and tricuspid valve echograms were analysed. Using the invasive and non-invasive data of three groups a non-invasive diastolic pressure scale for both ventricles could be construed.
Ultrasonic diagnosis of the function of heart valve prostheses]	Ninety-six patients with mitral, aortic and tricuspid valvular prostheses were investigated echocardiographically, with a total of 116 assessments of prosthetic function between 8 days and 20 years after surgery, using one-dimensional, two-dimensional and dopplerographic techniques. Possibilities of prosthetic dysfunction diagnosis by these techniques are discussed.
Echocardiographic evaluation of the tricuspid valve in rheumatic mitral valvulopathy]	The recognition of tricuspid valve involvement in presence of rheumatic mitral valve disease is important when surgery is contemplated. At the National Institute of Cardiology in Mexico City, we studied 57 patients with preoperative echocardiogram and catheterisation on whom the tricuspid valve (TV) was explored during surgical repair of mitral valve disease. TV was normal in 17 patients (group I), 28 had functional tricuspid insufficiency (group II) and 12 had rheumatic involvement (group III). Surgical treatment over TV was required in 22 (20 annuloplasty, 1 comissurotomy and 1 homograft valve replacement). We found pure mitral stenosis in 15, mitral stenosis and regurgitation in 36 and 6 with pure mitral insufficiency; the surgical repair over the mitral valve consisted in: 4 comissurotomies and 53 prosthetic valve replacement. At catheterisation, no significant pressure differences were found among the groups (right atrium, end diastolic of right ventricle, systolic pulmonary artery and capillary wedge). Echocardiogram showed E-F slope velocity diminished in group III (P less than 0.01), a diastolic anterior motion of septal leaflet of TV was found in 22 patients. No significant differences in the right ventricle measurements were found. In 7 patients a systolic anterior motion of interventricular septum was observed, all had mitral stenosis, 6 from group II and 1 from group III. We conclude that: echocardiogram study is a useful tool for the evaluation of TV involvement in patients with rheumatic mitral valve disease.
Tricuspid valve prolapse diagnosed by cross-sectional echocardiography.	Cross-sectional echocardiography utilizing the apical and longitudinal right ventricular inflow tract views was used to investigate the tricuspid valve in 64 patients with mitral valve prolapse and 16 controls who had no angiographic or echocardiographic evidence of mitral valve prolapse. The tricuspid valve leaflets and their coaptation point in systole were found to be below (towards the right ventricular apex) the level of the tricuspid valve ring in systole in all controls. Tricuspid valve prolapse, defined as the leaflet(s) of the tricuspid valve lying above the tricuspid valve ring level within the right atrium, was seen in 31/64(48 percent) of patients with mitral valve prolapse. The right ventricular inflow tract view demonstrated tricuspid valve prolapse most readily compared to the apical view, and 29 of the 31 patients with tricuspid valve prolapse had prolapse of at least two leaflets of the tricuspid valve. The 31 patients with both mitral and tricuspid valve prolapse, when compared to the 33 patients with mitral valve prolapse alone, had more symptomatology and abnormal physical findings.
Intermediate-term outcome after intracardiac repair of associated cardiac defects in patients with atrioventricular and ventriculoarterial discordance.	Limited information is available concerning long-term results, especially systemic right ventricular (RV) or tricuspid valvular function, after intracardiac repair of anomalies associated with discordant atrioventricular (AV) and ventriculoarterial (VA) connections ("congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries").
A new technique of tricuspid valve replacement for Ebstein's anomaly.	For surgical management of Ebstein's anomaly, a new technique of tricuspid valve replacement on the true annulus, avoiding injury to the conduction system, has been developed. At operation, the valve fixation sutures are placed around the true annulus except for a part of Koch's triangle. A 3 x 3 cm xenograft patch is sutured to cover the atrioventricular node and bundle of His. The remainder of the valve fixation sutures in Koch's triangle are placed only on the patch to prevent conduction injury, and the valve fixation annulus is completed. This new technique has been applied to three patients and has preserved atrioventricular conductivity well in all cases. It is concluded that this procedure of tricuspid replacement on the true annulus can be safely applied and is remarkably effective in preventing atrioventricular conduction disturbance.
Central and peripheral haemodynamic changes in post-term fetuses: correlation with oligohydramnios and abnormal fetal heart rate pattern.	To assess the hypothesis that the occurrence of oligohydramnios and abnormal fetal heart rate (FHR) pattern in post-term fetuses is associated with impaired fetal cardiac function.
Catheter ablation of atrial flutter. Electrophysiological characterization of posterior and septal isthmus block]	Evaluate the different types of conduction blocks obtained between inferior vena cava-tricuspid annulus (posterior isthmus) and between tricuspid annulus-coronary sinus ostium (septal isthmus) after radiofrequency (RF) catheter ablation of atrial flutter (AFL).
Inferior vena cava-tricuspid annulus isthmus is a critical site of unidirectional block during the induction of common atrial flutter.	Until recently no clinical studies had reported precise right atrium (RA) mapping when performing induction of atrial flutter (AFl). We studied the mode of tachycardia initiation in 16 patients (pts) referred for radiofrequency (RF) AFl ablation. AFl induction was performed at the beginning of the procedure (n = 10), or after previous AFl termination during RF delivery (n = 6). Detailed analysis of AFl initiation was provided by duodecapolar (Halo) and multipolar catheters positioned in the peritricuspidian region at the lateral right atrial wall (LRA), the inferior vena cavatricuspid annulus (IVC-TA) isthmus and the interatrial septum. Induction was obtained during incremental pacing (IAP) (15 pts) or programmed stimulation (1 pt) from the proximal coronary sinus (PCS).
Single radiofrequency application to cure atrioventricular nodal reentry: arguments for the slow pathway origin of the high-low frequency slow potentials.	High-low frequency slow potentials are thought to be related to the slow AV pathway conduction. Their use was proposed to guide radiofrequency (RF) ablation of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT). The present study was designed to determine the prospective value of these high-low frequency slow potentials to guide AVNRT ablation using a single RF application. Single RF application could indeed reduce the size of the lesion created in the viciny of the specialized AV conduction system and shorten the radiation exposure and the overall duration of the procedure.
