Weathering of hair in trichoteiromania.	A 74-year-old woman presented with an 18-month history of broken vertex scalp hairs as a consequence of chronic rubbing. Light microscopy of the 1-2 cm hairs demonstrated distal brush-like splitting. Education and behavioural therapy were instituted. After 4 months of reduced rubbing of the vertex scalp hairs, the hairs re-grew with no evidence of persistent hair shaft abnormality.
Clinical profile of trichotillomania.	Twenty-four cases of trichotillomania attending psychiatry outpatient department and child guidance clinic at Kalawati Saran Children's and Smt Sucheta Kriplani Hospitals over a period of 2 years from July, 1985 to November 1987 were studied. Females (66.7%) outnumbered the males (33.3%). Majority of cases belonged to age group 6-10 years (54.2%) and nuclear family (68.5%). Nail-biting (25.0%) was the commonest associated neurotic trait, followed by enuresis (20.9%), temper-tantrum (12.5%), etc. A past history of hysterical fits and neurotic depression was found in 3 cases (12.5%) and 2 cases (8.3%) respectively. Family history of neurosis was seen in mothers and fathers of 20.9% and 12.5% cases respectively. Trichobezoars and trichophytobezoars were found in 6 cases (25.0%) and 3 cases (12.5%) respectively. Majority of patients of trichobezoars presented with vague complaints like heaviness in the stomach (55.6%), inability to gain weight (44.4%), etc, while 22.2% cases were asymptomatic and detected only on screening.
Trichotillomania associated with the "Friar Tuck sign" and nail-biting.	Trichotillomania is a form of traction alopecia resulting from compulsive repetitive removal of one's own hair. This entity can mimic the clinical appearance of many other forms of hair loss including alopecia areata, androgenetic alopecia, and tinea capitis. It is important to differentiate trichotillomania from other forms of alopecia because its treatment is quite different. We present three cases of trichotillomania demonstrating the "tonsure pattern" or "Friar Tuck sign" and onychophagia (nail-biting), which we describe as clinical identifying features of this syndrome.
Concomitant trichotillomania cessation and thumb-sucking elimination: of course, they're related...aren't they?	This article presents an overview of the current research literature that reveals some controversy, discussion of the need for more research, and report of some definitive success. In addition, four case studies of hair pulling and thumb-sucking are highlighted.
The Rapunzel syndrome: a hard-to-swallow tale.	Rapunzel syndrome is a rare entity comprising of a large gastroduodenal trichobezoar due to trichotillomania. Its treatment is often surgical.
Adult men and women with trichotillomania. A comparison of male and female characteristics.	Trichotillomania (hair pulling) has been considered a disorder that primarily affects women. It is rarely reported in men. Such rarity may reflect distinct clinical features in men that call for different treatment strategies. To investigate potential gender differences in trichotillomania, the authors systematically assessed the descriptive and phenomenological characteristics as well as psychiatric comorbidity of 14 male hair pullers and compared them to 128 female hair pullers who had been similarly assessed. Although a few gender differences existed, male trichotillomania was very similar to that seen in women. These results suggest that gender-specific treatment is not justified at this time; however, a more thorough psychiatric screening should be done with men because they may have additional psychiatric comorbidity.
Childhood trichotillomania: clinical phenomenology, comorbidity, and family genetics.	DSM-IV defines trichotillomania as an impulse disorder with rising tension followed by relief or gratification. Alternative formulations view trichotillomania as an internalizing disorder or variant of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This study addresses this controversy by examining the phenomenology, comorbidity, and family genetics of childhood trichotillomania.
