Novel oxindole derivatives and their biological activity.	The antifungal activity of fourteen novel derivatives of oxindole with side chain was studied using representatives of toxinogenic, phytopathogenic and dermatophytic filamentous fungi. Derivatives with exocyclic C=C bond in position C-3 exhibited a higher antifungal activity compared with derivatives with an exocyclic C-C bond in the same position. The strongest antifungal effects were shown by 3-(-2-thienoylmethylidene)-indol-2(3H)-ones.
Sialic acids are absent from the dermatophytes Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum.	Experiments were performed to determine whether sialic acids are expressed in two dermatophytes: Trichophyton rubrum and T. mentagrophytes, similarly to other fungal pathogens. Chemical extraction of mycelia and microconidia followed by high-performance thin-layer chromatography and colorimetric assays were all negative for sialic acid. Incubation of dermatophytes in the presence of Limax flavus agglutinin, specific for sialic acid, was negative in a fluorescence staining test. We have also used other lectins that bind to sialic acid and/or other sugar residues, and these ligands coupled to fluorescein strongly stained these fungi. Such fluorescence staining was not abolished or reduced when fungi were pretreated with sialidase. Different strains of influenza virus which recognize sialic acid residues were also used, but no agglutination of the dermatophytes was observed. Based on these methods, which successfully revealed the presence of sialic acids in other fungal pathogens, we show that these monosaccharides do not occur in both dermatophyte species. Thus, sialic acids do not seem to play a role in the pathogenicity of these fungi.
Absolute configuration of keisslone, a new antimicrobial metabolite from Keissleriella sp. YS4108, a marine filamentous fungus.	In order to purify enough material for establishing the absolute stereochemistry of the new antifungal metabolite 3,6,8-trihydroxy-3-[3,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-3(E)-heptenyl]-2,3-dihydronaphthalen-1(4H)-one produced by Keissleriella sp., a marine filamentous fungus (strain number: YS 4108), a repeated growth and fractionation of the fungal culture was performed to give instead a new antimicrobial metabolite, keisslone (1), the structure of which was elucidated on the basis of spectral analyses including homo- and hetero-nuclear correlation NMR experiments (HMQC, COSY, NOESY and HMBC). The absolute configuration of metabolite 1 was determined mainly by its CD data and NOESY spectrum. The compound 1 was shown to be inhibitory against the human pathogenic fungi Candida albicans, Trichophyton rubrum and Aspergillus niger with MICs of 50, 70, 40 microg/mL, respectively. In order to purify enough material for establishing the absolute stereochemistry of the new antifungal metabolite 3,6,8-trihydroxy-3-[3,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-3(E)-heptenyl]-2,3-dihydronaphthalen-1(4 H)-one produced by Keissleriella sp., a marine filamentous fungus (strain number: YS 4108), a repeated growth and fractionation of the fungal culture was performed to give instead a new antimicrobial metabolite, keisslone (1), the structure of which was elucidated on the basis of spectral analyses including homo- and hetero-nuclear correlation NMR experiments (HMQC, COSY, NOESY and HMBC). The absolute configuration of metabolite 1 was determined mainly by its CD data and NOESY spectrum. The compound 1 was shown to be inhibitory against the human pathogenic fungi Candida albicans, Trichophyton rubrum and Aspergillus niger with MICs of 50, 70, 40 microg/mL, respectively.
Antifungal compounds from Zanthoxylum chiloperone var. angustifolium.	An alkaloidal extract of the stem barks of Zanthoxylum chiloperone var. angustifolium exhibited antifungal activity against Candida albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus and Trichophyton mentagrophytes var. interdigitale using a TLC bioautographic method. Bioassay-guided fractionation of this extract resulted in the isolation of two active compounds identi fi ed as canthin-6-one and 5-methoxycanthin-6-one. Canthin-6-one exhibited a broad spectrum of activities against Aspergillus fumigatus, A. niger, A. terreus, Candida albicans, C. tropicalis, C. glabrata, Cryptococcus neoformans, Geotrichum candidum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Trichosporon beigelii, Trichosporon cutaneum and Trichophyton mentagrophytes var. interdigitale with MICs values between 5.3 and 46 micro mol/L. 5-methoxy-canthin-6-one was active against only Trichophyton mentagrophytes var. interdigitale with a MIC value of 12.3 micro mol/L.
Flurbiprofen, a unique non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with antimicrobial activity against Trichophyton, Microsporum and Epidermophyton species.	The objective of this study was to determine the antifungal activity of flurbiprofen against dermatophytes like Trichophyton, Microsporum and Epidermophyton species.
Morphological evidences for onion-induced growth inhibition of Trichophyton rubrum and Trichophyton mentagrophytes.	The antifungal activity of onion (Allium cepa L.) on two important dermatophytes, Trichophyton rubrum and Trichophyton mentagrophytes, with special reference to morphological aspects was studied. Growth of both fungi was found to be strongly inhibited by aqueous onion extract (AOE) as a dose-dependent manner. The extract showed fungicidal effect for both fungi at concentrations >3.12% (v/v). The fungus T. mentagrophytes was more affected by the onion as compared to T. rubrum at all concentrations used. Morphological effects of onion exposure were examined in correlation with fungal growth. Corresponding to the growth inhibition, light and electron microscopy observations revealed morphological anomalies in hyphal compartments. The results demonstrated that AOE targets the cell membrane of the fungi as breaking down of both inner and outer membranes with consequent extrution of materials into the surrounding medium. Cytoplasmic membranes and other membranous structures of organelles, such as nuclei and mitochondria, were also disrupted. In correlation to the fungal growth, morphological alterations occurred to a less content for T. rubrum compared with T. mentagrophytes. The hyphae of T. rubrum were found to be mainly affected by converting to resistant forms, i.e., chlamidospores as a consequence of phenotype switching response to AOE. Plasmolysis accompanied by an almost complete depletion and disorganization of cytoplasmic structures were found to be the final event which led to cell death. Ultrastructural evidences obtained from this study strongly support that morphological changes of T. rubrum and T. mentagrophytes caused by AOE are associated with its fungistatic and fungicidal activities. With respect to the morphological results and the preliminary data on fungal biochemistry, a mechanism of action by interacting of AOE with thiol (-SH) groups present in essential compartments of the fungal cells was postulated.
Phytochemical and antimicrobial activities of the Daniellia oliveri leaves.	The n-butanol soluble part and four chromatographic fractions of the aqueous ethanolic extract of the leaves of Daniellia oliveri were investigated for antimicrobial properties. All fractions showed activity against Staphylococcus aureus. A chromatographic fraction showed significant activity against the fungus Tricophyton rubrum.
Antimicrobial and free radical scavenging activity of Gentianella nitida.	The antimicrobial and free radical scavenging activity of the ethanol extract and fractions of Gentianella nitida have been assessed. The most susceptible microorganisms were Candida albicans, Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Microsporum gypseum. The antifungal activity was concentrated in the 90% methanol and nonsoluble fractions, while the radical scavenging activity was stronger in the ethyl acetate and nonsoluble fractions.
Screening of antifungal agents using ethanol precipitation and bioautography of medicinal and food plants.	In the search for bioactive compounds, bioautography and ethanol precipitation of macromolecules (proteins, polysaccharides, etc.) of plant aqueous extracts were associated in an antifungal screening. Thus, the supernatants, precipitates (obtained by ethanol precipitation) and aqueous extracts were investigated of medicinal and fruit bearing plants used against skin diseases by the Brazilian population. The agar diffusion and broth dilution methods were used to assess the activity against three fungi: Candida albicans, Trichophyton rubrum and Cryptococcus neoformans. The results, evaluated by the diameter of the inhibition zone of fungal growth, indicate that six plant species, among the 16 investigated, showed significant antifungal activity. The minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) was determined on plant extracts that showed high efficacy against the tested microorganisms. The most susceptible yeast was Trichophyton rubrum and the best antifungal activity was shown by Xanthosoma sagittifolium supernatant. The bioautography was performed only for the aqueous extracts and supernatants of those plants that showed antifungal activity against Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans, using n-butanol/acetic acid/water (BAW) 8:1:1 to develop silica gel TLC plates. Clear inhibition zones were observed for aqueous extracts of Schinus molle (R(f) 0.89) and Schinus terebinthifolius (R(f) 0.80) against Candida albicans, as for supernatant of Anacardium occidentale (R(f) 0.31) against Cryptococcus neoformans. The separation of macromolecules from metabolites, as in the case of Anacardium occidentale, Solanum sp. and Xanthosoma sagittifolium, enhances antifungal activity. In other cases, the antifungal activity is destroyed, as observed for Momordica charantia, Schinus molle and Schinus terebinthifolius.
Antifungal effect of 5-aminolevulinic acid PDT in Trichophyton rubrum.	In the present investigation, we have shown for the first time that the onychomycosis-inducing dermatophyte Trichophyton rubrum was able to metabolize 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) to protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) in liquid culture medium. We have established and optimized the culture conditions and could show the typical PpIX-induced red fluorescence which was evaluated qualitatively by Wood's light examination and fluorescent microscopic analysis. The optimum concentration of ALA was in the range of 1-10 mmol l(-1). If used in higher concentrations, ALA leads to a significantly reduced growth rate and absence of PpIX formation due to highly acidic conditions. The first observation of red fluorescence was detected between 10 and 14 days poststimulation with ALA, increasing thereafter. Fluorescent microscopic examinations demonstrated that formation of PpIX was restricted to selected parts of the fungal mycelium. Repeated application of ALA in order to achieve the highest formation of PpIX in T. rubrum failed, probably due to the sustained low pH values. ALA treatment and irradiation of T. rubrum clearly demonstrated the growth-inhibiting effect of ALA PDT, either leading to reduced numbers of colonies or reduced diameters of single fungal colonies. Summarizing our results, ALA PDT might be a promising approach in the reduction of T. rubrum colonization in onychomycosis.
A novel mycological analysis valuable for evaluating therapeutic efficacy of antimycotics against experimental dermatophytosis in guinea pigs.	Although antimycotic effects are mainly evaluated with regard to whether or not the fungi grow from a specimen obtained from the drug-treated skin, the potential for discrepancies in skin specimens in which the fungi are grown has not been evaluated, in the experimental tinea model. In this study, to evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of antimycotic agents against fungal skin infection, a novel form of mycological assessment, which focuses on the size of colonies grown from skin specimens was examined and developed. When microconidia of Trichophyton mentagrophytes were inoculated onto a Sabouraud dextrose agar (SDA) plate and incubated at 27 degrees C for 5 days, a linear relationship was observed between the growth area of mycelia and the logarithm of the quantity of microconidia. This relationship between the growth area and the logarithm of the number of T. mentagrophytes microconidia did not change with the addition of skin homogenate and/or keratin powder. Next, the number of fungi in skin blocks attendant upon experimental, cutaneous infection in guinea pigs was evaluated and analyzed via a calibration curve, determined based on a microconidium suspension of T. mentagrophytes. Estimates of severity of dermatophytic infection in experimental animals were parallel to, but more reliable than, results obtained via the conventional mycological method (fungus-positive skin ratio of treated skin) in culture studies of infected dermal tissues. This new analytical method may also be applicable to the in vivo assessment of the therapeutic effect against dermatophytosis experimentally produced in guinea pigs.
Paecilosetin, a new bioactive fungal metabolite from a New Zealand isolate of Paecilomyces farinosus.	A new tetramic acid derivative, paecilosetin (1), along with a recently characterized N-hydroxypyridone, farinosone B (2), was isolated from the fungus Paecilomyces farinosus. Each compound showed activity against the P388 cell line with IC50 values of 3.1 and 1.1 microg/mL, respectively. Paecilosetin was also active against the microorganisms Bacillus subtilis, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Cladosporium resinae.
Sch 42137, a novel antifungal antibiotic from an Actinoplanes sp. Fermentation, isolation, structure and biological properties.	A novel polycyclic xanthone, Sch 42137, related to the albofungin family of compounds was isolated from culture broth. Its structure was determined by detailed spectroscopic studies and comparison of circular dichroic studies to related compounds albofungin and simaomicin. Sch 42137 exhibited MIC values less than 0.125 micrograms/ml against yeasts and dermatophytes. Details are presented herein.
New antifungal flavonoid glycoside from Vitex negundo.	Flavonoids are ubiquitous in photosynthesizing cells and are common part of human diet. For centuries, preparations containing these compounds as the principal physiologically active constituents have been used to treat human diseases. Increasingly, this class of natural products is becoming the subject of anti-infective research. Our bioactivity guided fractionation of ethanolic extract of leaves of Vitex negundo resulted in the isolation of new flavone glycoside (4) along with five known compounds 1-3, 5 and 6. All the isolated compounds were evaluated for their antimicrobial activities. The new flavone glycoside 4 and compound 5 were found to have significant antifungal activity against Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Cryptococcus neoformans at MIC 6.25 microg/ml.
Transcriptional profiles of the response to ketoconazole and amphotericin B in Trichophyton rubrum.	Trichophyton rubrum is a pathogenic filamentous fungus of increasing medical concern. Two antifungal agents, ketoconazole (KTC) and amphotericin B (AMB), have specific activity against dermatophytes. To identify the mechanisms of action of KTC and AMB against T. rubrum, a cDNA microarray was constructed from the expressed sequence tags of the cDNA library from different developmental stages, and transcriptional profiles of the responses to KTC and AMB were determined. T. rubrum was exposed to subinhibitory concentrations of KTC and AMB for 12 h, and microarray analysis was used to examine gene transcription. KTC exposure induced transcription of genes involved in lipid, fatty acid, and sterol metabolism, including ERG11, ERG3, ERG25, ERG6, ERG26, ERG24, ERG4, CPO, INO1, DW700960, CPR, DW696584, DW406350, and ATG15. KTC also increased transcription of the multidrug resistance gene ABC1. AMB exposure increased transcription of genes involved in lipid, fatty acid, and sterol metabolism (DW696584, EB801458, IVD, DW694010, DW688343, DW684992), membrane transport (Git1, DW706156, DW684040, DMT, DW406136, CCH1, DW710650), and stress-related responses (HSP70, HSP104, GSS, AOX, EB801455, EB801702, TDH1, UBI4) but reduced transcription of genes involved in maintenance of cell wall integrity and signal transduction pathways (FKS1, SUN4, DW699324, GAS1, DW681613, SPS1, DW703091, STE7, DW703091, DW695308) and some ribosomal proteins. This is the first report of the use of microarray analysis to determine the effects of drug action in T. rubrum.
In Vitro antimycotic activity of xanthorrhizol isolated from Curcuma xanthorrhiza Roxb. against opportunistic filamentous fungi.	Xanthorrhizol was isolated from the rhizome of Curcuma xanthorrhiza (Zingiberaceae) and its in vitro activity against opportunistic filamentous fungi was evaluated using the NCCLS (M38-A) standard method. Xanthorrhizol was found to be active against all the species tested, namely Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus niger, Fusarium oxysporum, Rhizopus oryzae and Trichophyton mentagrophytes: the MICs being 2.0, 2.0, 2.0, 4.0, 1.0 and 1.0 microg/mL, while the MFCs were 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 8.0, 2.0 and 2.0 microg/mL, respectively. The susceptibility of six species of filamentous fungi to xanthorrhizol was comparable to that of the commercial antifungal, amphotericin B. Xanthorrhizol also has activity to inhibit the conidial germination of all tested species. The results strongly suggest that xanthorrhizol can be developed as a natural antifungal agent.
Antifungal susceptibility testing of Trichophyton rubrum by E-test.	Trichophyton rubrum isolates were used in susceptibility testing for azoles by E-test. Voriconazole was the most and fluconazole was the less-active drug. Our results are in agreement with susceptibility data observed by researchers that used others' methodologies. E-test seems to be a reliable methodology to susceptibility-testing for T. rubrum.
Evaluation of susceptibility of Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum clinical isolates to antifungal drugs using a modified CLSI microdilution method (M38-A).	Onychomycosis is a common adult human mycosis, and dermatophytes of the Trichophyton genera are the most common causative agent. Many antimycotic agents are safe and highly effective for the treatment of dermatophytosis, and are available for clinical practice. Successful treatment depends on the ability of antifungal drugs to eradicate the fungal isolates. The aim of this work was to determine the MICs of four antifungal drugs (fluconazole, itraconazole, terbinafine and griseofulvin) recognized for ungual dermatophytosis treatment caused by Trichophyton species, especially Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum. MICs were determined using a broth microdilution method in accordance with Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute approved standard M38-A with some modifications, such as an incubation temperature of 28 degrees C, an incubation time of 7 days and inocula constituted of only microconidia. The results showed that the activities of terbinafine and itraconazole were significantly higher (MICs of <0.007-0.031 and 0.015-0.25 microg ml(-1), respectively) than other tested agents. All isolates had reduced susceptibility to fluconazole (1-64 microg ml(-1)). The MIC of griseofulvin varied among strains (MICs of 0.062-1 microg ml(-1)). The parameters adopted to perform susceptibility testing of T. rubrum and T. mentagrophytes to antifungal agents appeared to be suitable and reliable, and could contribute to the possible development of a standard protocol.
In vitro hypoglycemic and antimicrobial activities of Senecio leucanthemifolius Poiret.	This study reports on the alpha-amylase inhibitory and antimicrobial activities of Senecio leucanthemifolius Poiret. Extracts of S. leucanthemifolius were tested for their antimicrobial and antifungal activities against seven different pathogenic microorganisms using the microdilution technique. The ethyl acetate extract exhibited a strong antibiotic activity against Staphylococcus aureus with a MIC value of 31.25 microg mL(-1), while the n-hexane extract showed a significant activity against dermatophytic fungi. S. leucanthemifolius extracts were tested also for their potential hypoglycemic activity through the in vitro inhibition of alpha-amylase. The dichloromethane extract inhibited alpha-amylase with a value of 56.6% at 0.05 mg mL(-1) and the n-butanol extract showed a value of 89.2% at 1 mg mL(-1).
Susceptibility of dermatophyte isolates obtained from a large worldwide terbinafine tinea capitis clinical trial.	Our group, in collaboration with seven other laboratories, has recently developed a method to determine the susceptibility of dermatophytes.
Preliminary study of activity of the thioredoxin inhibitor pleurotin against Trichophyton mentagrophytes: a novel anti-dermatophyte possibility.	Dermatophyte infections, while not life-threatening, are very common, and there is great interest in developing new antifungal agents. Transcriptional profiling of Trichophyton on keratin has identified some antioxidant genes as induced on this host substrate, including a thioredoxin gene TmTRX1. If thioredoxin is a virulence factor, or necessary for the growth on keratin, thioredoxin inhibitors should act as antifungals. As a first evaluation of this hypothesis, we have tested the activity of a thioredoxin-inhibitory natural product, pleurotin, against a clinical isolate of each of two fungal pathogens: the dermatophyte T. mentagrophytes and Candida albicans. Pleurotin inhibited the growth of the dermatophyte in vitro and in an ex vivo skin model, but had no effect on Candida. It may be possible to develop and optimise thioredoxin inhibitors, some of which are already under study in cancer chemotherapy, as antifungals.
In vitro pharmacodynamic characteristics of griseofulvin against dermatophyte isolates of Trichophyton tonsurans from tinea capitis patients.	Tinea capitis is the most commonly observed fungal infection in childhood and is primarily caused by the dermatophyte species Trichophyton tonsurans, Microsporum canis, and Trichophyton violaceum. In North America and the United Kingdom T. tonsurans is responsible for more than 90% of cases. Griseofulvin has been the treatment of choice for tinea capitis for more than 40 years and is the sole oral antifungal agent approved by the FDA for the management of tinea capitis. Some researchers have expressed concern about the possibility of emerging resistance in tinea capitis isolates, especially when there is clinical failure to treatment. A total of 151 isolates of T. tonsurans (142), M. canis (7), and T. violaceum (2) collected from tinea capitis patients were evaluated for their susceptibility to griseofulvin using the CLSI M38-A method. MIC ranges and geometric means in parenthesis were observed for T. tonsurans 0.125-16 microg/ml (1.1 microg/ml), M. canis 0.25-2 microg/ml (0.61 microg/ml), and T. violaceum 2-4 microg/ml (2.82 microg/ml), respectively. In a time kill assay with T. tonsurans UAMH 9334, 50% and 90% reduction was observed in the number of colony forming units with >2x MIC after 6 h and 12 h of exposure to the griseofulvin, respectively. Of 142 T. tonsurans isolates studied, only three could grow on SDA containing 4 times to their griseofulvin MIC, representing resistance frequencies of 1.3 x 10(-6), 6.9 x 10(-7), and 9.7 x 10(-7). Furthermore a two-fold increase in MIC was observed in isolates collected at two time intervals in only one of eight patients. Interestingly, these isolates did not show the same increase in their in vitro resistance as exhibited by the three isolated mentioned above. In light of this data, we could not confirm any correlation between increased MIC and therapy failure.
Tinea capitis: predictive value of symptoms and time to cure with griseofulvin treatment.	To describe (a) the predictive value of symptoms for diagnosis of tinea capitis and (b) the rate and timing of cure with high-dose griseofulvin treatment.
The effects of saperconazole on the morphology of Candida albicans, Pityrosporum ovale and Trichophyton rubrum in vitro.	Fungal cultures were incubated for various periods of time with saperconazole at concentrations ranging from 10(-10) to 10(-5) M: Candida albicans (4 and 24 h), Pityrosporum ovale (2 and 7 days), and Trichophyton rubrum (1, 2, 3, 7 and 14 days). At the end of the incubation period, fungal morphology was compared with that of control cultures by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. In all three species, major ultrastructural changes were seen from concentrations of 10(-8) to 10(-7) M saperconazole onwards, depending on the species and time of incubation. The main changes were inhibition of hyphal outgrowth (C. albicans), abortive hyphal outgrowth (T. rubrum) and deposition of electron-dense vesicles in a thickened cell wall (C. albicans, T. rubrum). In P. ovale, a direct, necrotizing action was seen without concomitant wall changes.
Therapeutic effect of amorolfine on experimental dermatophytosis]	Therapeutic effects of cream and solution of amorolfine (MT-861), a new morpholine antifungal agent, were investigated using 1% cream and solution of bifonazole (BFZ) as the reference drug in Trichophyton mentagrophytes-infected guinea pig to evaluate the usefulness of MT-861. The results obtained are summarized as follows. 1. Once-a-day topical applications of 0.125, 0.5, and 1% MT-861 cream preparations starting day-5 postinfection were therapeutically effective. The effectiveness increased with increasing concentrations of active preparations, reaching nearly the maximum level at 0.5%. The treatment with 0.5% or 1% MT-861 cream preparation produced significantly greater improvement of clinical symptoms and culture results than did the treatment with the 1% BFZ cream preparation. 2. Treatment of 7 days or longer with 0.5 or 1% cream of MT-861 was required to produce therapeutic effect. Close relationships were observed between chitin contents of skin lesions and the presence of the pathogen in the lesions after 1, 2 and 3 weeks of treatment. 3. When MT-861 solutions were applied once daily for 2 weeks, the effectiveness increased as drug concentrations increased similarly to the cream treatment. A significant difference was observed (P less than 0.05 approximately 0.001) in degrees of lesions and culture results between the treatment with MT-861 and with BFZ control solutions. Thus, excellent therapeutic effectiveness in the Trichophyton infection model of guinea pigs was obtained by treatment with both the cream and the solution of MT-861. Once a day dosage of 0.5% drug concentration produced adequate effectiveness. A high clinical usefulness is expected in the treatment of fungal infections of the skin using MT-861.
Retention of amorolfine in the skin tissue as measured by prevention of the development of experimental dermatophytosis in guinea pigs]	In order to assess the extent of dermal retention of amorolfine (MT-861), a new morpholine antifungal agent, cream preparations of MT-861 were applied to the skin on the back of guinea pigs and the protective effect was determined regarding the topical treatment on the development of infection induced by subsequent inoculation with conidia of Trichophyton mentagrophytes. One per cent bifonazole (BFZ) cream was used as the reference drug. The results are summarized as follows. 1. Pretreatment with 0.125, 0.25 or 0.5% MT-861 preparation 1 to 3 days before infection significantly reduced the extent of lesion developed compared to the untreated control at postinfection day-12 and day-19 measurements. 2. Cultures of specimens taken from the skin lesion performed on postinfection day-19 showed that pretreatment with 0.125, 0.25 or 0.5% MT-861 cream 1 day before infection significantly lowered the number of culture-positive skin lesions compared to that of untreated control. 3. No significant difference was observed among the 3 experimental groups of animals pretreated with MT-861 preparations 1 to 3 days before infection in extent of lesions developed, though the mycological protective effect of the drug appeared to decrease with increasing time intervals between drug-pretreatment and fungal challenge. 4. A 0.5% MT-861 preparation had an equal or superior infection-preventive effect to 1% BFZ preparation as far as severity of lesion and recovery of fungi were concerned. 5. The potent and prolonged protective action by MT-861 preparations against the development of fungal infection strongly suggests that MT-861 retains in the skin tissue in an active from for substantially long periods of time.
Steroidal glycosides from the underground parts of Allium ursinum L. and their cytostatic and antimicrobial activity.	The aim of this study was the isolation and structural elucidation of steroidal glycosides from the underground parts of ramson Allium ursinum L. The structures of the isolated compounds were established based upon chromatographic methods and 1D- and 2D-NMR, MS and IR analyses. The mixture of two steroidal saponins: (25R)-spirost-5-en-3b-ol tetrasaccharide and (25R)-spirost-5, 25(27)-dien-3b-ol tetrasaccharide, along with a 3-hydroxypregna-5,16-dien-20-one glycoside were identified. The results of in vitro cytotoxic activity of the mixture of spirostanol saponins against cell lines melanoma B16 and sarcoma XC and human fibroblasts HSF are also reported. The spirostanol saponins mixture was investigated to determine its in vitro antimicrobal activity against Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Microsporum canis.
Ciclopirox nail lacquer for the treatment of onychomycosis: an open non-comparative study.	Onychomycosis is a relatively common disease accounting for up to 50% of all nail disorders. Topical treatment, although less effective than systemic, is usually preferred by patients. Topical antifungal nail lacquers have been formulated to provide better delivery of the antifungal agent to the nail unit. The purpose of this research is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ciclopirox nail lacquer in the treatment of onychomycosis. Patients suffering from distal and lateral subungual toenail onychomycosis (DLSO) and lateral subungual onychomycosis (LSO) were treated by ciclopirox nail lacquer once daily for 9 months. Every week the nail lacquer was removed using acetone. Clinical nail status, KOH examination and mycological culture were recorded by the same investigator at 0, 3, 6 and 9 months. Thirty-six patients completed the 9-month regimen. Trichophyton rubrum was the most common pathogen. At the end of the study, good improvement to complete cure was observed in 13 patients (36%), 12 patients showed only mild to moderate improvement and 11 patients (31%) had no clinical improvement. No adverse effects were noted throughout the treatment period. Ciclopirox nail lacquer seems to be slightly more effective than other topical modalities and could be used in patients who cannot or do not want systemic treatment.
Activity of TDT 067 (terbinafine in Transfersome) against agents of onychomycosis, as determined by minimum inhibitory and fungicidal concentrations.	TDT 067 is a novel carrier-based dosage form (liquid spray) of 15 mg/ml of terbinafine in Transfersome that has been developed to deliver terbinafine to the nail bed to treat onychomycosis. In this study, we report the in vitro activities of TDT 067 against dermatophytes, compared with those of the Transfersome vehicle, naked terbinafine, and commercially available terbinafine (1%) spray. The MICs of TDT 067 and comparators against 25 clinical strains each of Trichophyton rubrum, T. mentagrophytes, and Epidermophyton floccosum were determined according to the CLSI M38-A2 susceptibility method (2008). Minimum fungicidal concentrations (MFCs) were determined by subculturing visibly clear wells from the MIC microtiter plates. TDT 067 demonstrated potent activity against the dermatophyte strains tested, with an MIC range of 0.00003 to 0.015 μg/ml. Overall, TDT 067 MIC(50) values (defined as the lowest concentrations to inhibit 50% of the strains tested) were 8-fold and 60-fold lower than those of naked terbinafine and terbinafine spray, respectively. The Transfersome vehicle showed minimal inhibitory activity. TDT 067 demonstrated lower MFC values for T. rubrum and E. floccosum than naked terbinafine and terbinafine spray. TDT 067 has more potent antifungal activity against dermatophytes that cause nail infection than conventional terbinafine preparations. The Transfersome vehicle appears to potentiate the antifungal activity of terbinafine. Clinical investigation of TDT 067 for the topical treatment of onychomycosis is warranted.
A study on the decontamination of insoles colonized by Trichophyton rubrum: effect of terbinafine spray powder 1% and terbinafine spray solution 1%.	Shoes worn with bare feet function as a fungal reservoir and lead to persistent dermatophytosis.
Prenylated flavonoids from the roots of Desmodium caudatum and evaluation of their antifungal activity.	Two new prenylated flavonoids (1, 4) and two new prenylated C-methyl-flavonoids (6, 7), together with four known flavonoids (2, 3, 5, 8), were isolated from the roots of Desmodium caudatum. The structures of the new compounds were elucidated by extensive spectroscopic analyses including 1D-, 2D-NMR and MS. The antifungal activities of five compounds (1, 2, 4, 6, 8) as well as nine flavonoids (9-17) previously isolated from this plant against Aspergillus niger, Penicillium sp., Rhizopus sp., and Trichophyton sp. were evaluated. Compound 6 showed potent antifungal activity against Trichophyton sp. with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) value of 1.95 µg/mL.
Synthesis of 1H-1,2,3-triazoles and study of their antifungal and cytotoxicity activities.	We report herein the results of antifungal activity of fifteen 1,2,3-triazoles against Candida albicans, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida kefyr, Candida tropicalis, Candida dubliniensis, Tricophyton rubrum, Microporum canis and Aspergillus niger. All of the 1,2,3-triazoles were prepared from 1,3-dipolar cyclizations between aryl azides and alkynes catalyzed by Cu(I), and several of the compounds exhibited antifungal activity with low cytotoxicity. The results demonstrated the potential and importance of developing new 1,2,3-triazoles compounds with antifungal activity. 
Increase in resistance to fluconazole and itraconazole in Trichophyton rubrum clinical isolates by sequential passages in vitro under drug pressure.	Trichophyton rubrum, an anthropophilic dermatophyte fungus, is the predominant causative agent of superficial skin infections in human population. There are only scanty reports on drug susceptibility profiling of T. rubrum. Neither mechanisms for drug resistance development nor correlation between in vitro drug susceptibility and in vivo response to treatment is known for that species. In this study, changes in the in vitro susceptibilities to fluconazole (FLZ) and itraconazole (ITZ) among thirty T. rubrum clinical strains subjected to sequential passages in the presence or absence of the azoles were investigated. Each strain was passaged 12 times at 4-week intervals as three parallel cultures, maintained on a drug-free medium (1), and a medium containing FLZ (2) or ITZ (3) at subinhibitory concentrations. Susceptibility to FLZ and ITZ of the original strain and its 3 subcultures was determined by microdilution method. The MIC values of the two azoles remained unaltered for all T. rubrum strains tested, after 12 passages on a drug-free medium. Among the strains grown with FLZ, an increase in the MICs of FLZ and ITZ was noted in 17 (56.7 %) and 19 (63.3 %) strains, respectively. Increased MICs of ITZ and FLZ were demonstrated for 24 (80 %) and 20 (66.7 %) strains that were propagated with ITZ. The results indicate the capacity of T. rubrum to develop resistance toward the azoles after prolonged exposure to these drugs. Resistance of T. rubrum to azoles plays an important role in therapy failures and consequently contributes to persistence and chronicity of the infections.
Amphotericin B topical microemulsion: formulation, characterization and evaluation.	The present studies were designed to develop a microemulsion (ME) formulation of Amphotericin B (Amp B) for the treatment of invasive fungal infections. The oil phase was selected on the basis of drug solubility whereas the surfactant and co-surfactant were screened and selected on the basis of their oil solubilizing capacity as well as their efficiency to form ME. Pseudo-ternary phase diagrams were constructed and on the basis of ME existence ranges various formulations of Amp B were developed. The influence of surfactant and co-surfactant mass ratio (Smix) on the ME formation and permeation of ME through excised rat skin was studied. The optimized formulation (ME 7) consisting of 0.1% (w/w) Amp B, 5% (w/w) Isopropyl Myristate and 35% (w/w) Smix (3:1, Tween 80 and Propylene glycol), has shown a globule size of 84.20 ± 2.13 nm, a polydispersity index of 0.164 ± 0.031, pH 7.36 ± 0.02 and conductance of 229.3 ± 1.95 μS. ME 7 exhibited 2-fold higher drug permeation as compared to plain drug solution. Besides this, the formulation was also evaluated for drug content, stability, skin retention, skin sensitivity and anti-fungal activity. In vitro anti-fungal activity in Trichophyton rubrum fungal species have shown that ME7 has higher zone of inhibition and the formulation was found stable at 2-8°C and at room temperature (25 ± 2°C) for the period of three months. The results indicate that, the investigated ME may be used as a promising alternative for Amp B therapy.
Studies on aculeacin. I. Isolation and characterization of aculeacin A.	Aculeacin A, a new antifungal antibiotic was isolated from the mycelial cake of Aspergillus aculeatus M-4214. The antibiotic is a white amorphous powder soluble in lower alcohols and hardly soluble in other organic solvents or water. Aculeacin A gave palmitic acid and five ninhydrin-positive products including theonine, hydroxyproline upon acid hydrolysis. The antibiotic showed a potent activity against molds and yeasts, but exhibited no antibacterial activity. Aculeacin A has relatively low toxicity in mice.
Newer antimycotics. III. Halogen- and nitro-substituted anilines and phenols (author's transl)]	The author produced a number of halogeno- and nitro-derivatives of anilines and phenols, investigated their antimicrobial efficiency in vitro, further the toxicity on mice of their most effective representatives. From the author's results it can be concluded that trihalogenoanilines and tetrachloroaniline exerted a relatively strong fungistatic activity with a broad spectrum of efficiency (Tab. 2) likewise to the polyhalogenophenols and halogenonitrophenols (Tab. 3). The acute toxicity of the most effective halogenoanilines was relatively small; they were found to be significantly less toxic than halogenophenols and tetramethyl-thiuramdisulfide (Tab. 5). On the basis of the intensive fungistatic activity and small toxicity of the tri- and tetrahalogenoanilines, it seems that a number of representatives of these types of chemical compounds could be given a role in the chemotherapy of superficial human and animal dermatomycoses, and also in the chemoprophylaxis of certain phytomycoses.
Comparison of gentamicin with other antibacterials and variation of incubation temperature on growth of trichophyton mentagrophytes from skin scales.	Neutral (Emmons modification) Sabouraud medium, Dermatophyte Test Medium and Littman oxgall agar, with substitutions in type of antibacterial antibiotic, were quantitatively evaluated by colony counts for ability to support growth when suspensions of trypsintreated guinea pig skin scales, infected with Trichophyton mentagrophytes, were used as inocula. Both liquid and powder form of gentamicin sulfate were used separately in place of other routinely used antibacterial antibiotics. Also evaluated were three isolation temperatures. No differences in ability to support growth were noted among media. No difference was noted between the two forms of gentamicin. No data were available on the antibacterial activities of the antibiotics because no bacterial growth was produced on any of the media. Room temperature (24 degrees-26 degrees C), 30 degrees C and 37 degrees C were found to support growth similarly as primary isolation temperatures for this fungus.
Griseofulvin-resistant dermatophytosis correlates with in vitro resistance.	The unsuccessful treatment of dermatophytosis with griseofulvin is common. The mechanism is not known but may involve infection with a griseofulvin-resistant dermatophyte. The mean minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) value of griseofulvin for Trichophyton rubrum isolates obtained from griseofulvin unresponsive patients was substantially larger than the mean MIC value for responsive control isolates. This difference indicates that therapeutic failure does correlate with the relative in vitro resistance. An MIC of 3.0 microgram/mL or greater was determined to indicate relative griseofulvin resistance. We conclude that the MIC determination for griseofulvin can be used to determine the appropriateness of griseofulvin therapy.
Effect of catechin on the ultrastructure of Trichophyton mentagrophytes]	The effects of (-) epigallocatechin gallate (EGCg) on the morphology of hyphae and conidia of Trichophyton mentagrophytes were examined using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. EGCg inhibited the germination of conidia and subsequent hyphal growth. After being treated with EGCg for 3 days, conidia showed morphological changes such as deformation, swelling, wrinkles, exfoliation of the surface layer and accumulation of granular, amorphous materials on the conidia and short hyphae surfaces. These morphological changes became apparent day by day. After 5 days, most of the ungerminating conidia were broken down. The hyphal cell walls were also exfoliated and the cytoplasm in most of the cells disappeared completely. Inner organellas were variable in size and shape. Many high electron dense particles, greatly enlarged vacuoles appeared in the cytoplasm. The degradation of cells occurred. These observations indicates that EGCg causes lysis of the conidia and hyphae. These findings suggest that EGCg may be used as an antidermatophytic agent against T. mentagrophytes infection.
Evaluation of antifungal effects of terbinafine and itraconazole using neutral red staining.	Neutral red staining is a newly described method for evaluating the viability of fungal cells. Using this method, the antifungal effects of terbinafine and itraconazole were evaluated in vitro. When the number of neutral red-positive Trichophyton mentagrophytes conidia treated with these two oral antifungals was compared with the number of culture-proved viable T. mentagrophytes conidia, a strong positive correlation was found. This result confirms that neutral red staining is a useful method for evaluating the viability of T. mentagrophytes in vitro, and that it can be used for the evaluation of antifungal activity. We conclude that the effectiveness of an antifungal drug should not be evaluated by direct microscopic examination alone, but with the additional aid of mycological culture or neutral red staining.
Evaluation of the in vitro antifungal activity of allicin.	Allicin was effective in vitro against Candida, Cryptococcus, Trichophyton, Epidermophyton, and Microsporum. The minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of allicin against these organisms were 3.13 to 6.25 mug/ml by the agar dilution method and 1.57 to 6.25 mug/ml by the broth dilution method, using Sabouraud glucose (SG) medium. However decreased activity was demonstrated against Aspergillus. The MIC of allicin against various pathogenic fungi was affected considerably by differences in the experimental conditions, e.g., incubation time, inoculum size, type of medium, and medium pH. The MIC of allicin against Candida, Cryptococcus, and Aspergillus remained constant after more than 3 days of incubation, and that against Dermatophytes remained constant after more than 10 days of incubation. Decreasing the inoculum size increased the susceptibility to allicin. The antifungal activity of allicin was stronger on SG agar medium with a pH of 5.6 than on the same medium with a pH of 6.0 or higher. By microscopical observation, allicin induced morphological abnormalities in hyphae of Trichophyton mentagrophytes Morita. Percent germination of spores of the Morita strain at 24 h in SG agar medium was greatly decreased with an allicin concentration of 3.13 mug/ml, and the lethal dose for the spores was about four times higher than the fungistatic concentration. These results suggest that allicin inhibits both germination of spores and growth of hyphae.
Effect of 8-methoxypsoralen and blacklight on microorganisms in vitro and in experimental trichophytosis in guinea pigs]	The lack of experimental test models causes problems in comparative evaluation of photodynamic effects of 8-MOP and its possible derivatives after irradiation with blacklight or other irradiation sources. In our experiments in vitro, tests with various microorganisms and the in vivo model of experimental dermatophytosis in guinea pigs by Trichophyton mentagrophytes appeared to be suitable. In vivo, 8-MOP was applicated orally and topically in two formulations.
Evaluation of mycobacillin and versicolin as agricultural fungicides. III. Growth pattern and antibiotic production in soil by Aspergillus versicolor.	Soil supports the growth of a jute pathogen Colletotrichum gloeosporioides but only to a limited extent that of its antagonist Aspergillus versicolor. The growth of the sensitive pathogen is considerably checked by the antagonist in mixed soil culture although versicolin production could not be demonstrated within the limits of assay. Both the sensitive and the antagonistic organisms grow well in soil-compost medium and versicolin production by the latter is also enhanced. The antagonistic effect of Aspergillus versicolor on Colletotrichum gloeosporioides is expectedly more marked in soil-compost medium than in soil medium.
In vitro susceptibility of fungi to acyclic inhibitors of 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclases.	In the present study we determine the antifungal properties of two acyclic inhibitors of 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclases: 22,23-epoxy-2-aza-2,3-dihydrosqualene (EAS) and azasqualene alcohol (ASA). Fungistatic and fungicidal activity towards dermatophytes and other fungi involved in cutaneous and systemic infections was tested (48 isolates from 10 species). The tests were carried out by inoculating 10 microliters of mycelial homogenate in 1 ml of Sabouraud glucose liquid medium containing serial dilutions of 100 to 0.25 micrograms ml-1 of the substance. For each isolate, the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and the minimum fungicidal concentration (MFC) of both compounds were determined. EAS was more active (MIC range 1.5-25 micrograms ml-1) than ASA (MIC range 3-50 micrograms ml-1). At the highest concentration tested, EAS also showed fungicidal action towards some isolates of Trichophyton mentagrophytes, T. terrestre, Epidermophyton floccosum, Microsporum canis and Scopulariopsis brumptii. The most sensitive species was T. mentagrophytes, the most resistant T. rubrum.
Effect of glucose and thiamine concentrations on the formation of macroconidia in dermatophytes. Occurrence of dysgonic Microsporum canis strains in Athens, Greece.	Data collected from multiple trials with 110 fresh and preserved clinical isolates of Trichophyton mentagrophytes var. mentagrophytes, T. violaceum, T. rubrum, T. verrucosum, Microsporum canis and Epidermophyton floccosum revealed that production of macroconidia depends on glucose and thiamine concentrations in the medium. Optimal macroconidia production was obtained at the critical concentrations of 5 g l-1 glucose and 0.6 g l-1 thiamine when the two compounds were used in combination. The same conditions also encouraged macroconidia production in aconidial strains of T. verrucosum. Cutaneous inoculation in immunocompetent laboratory rabbits further enhanced the macroconidia producing capacity of the tested strains. Emphasis was placed on the occurrence of dysgonic/atypical strains of M. canis, which readily reverted to their typical phenotypes after growth on medium supplemented with 0.6 g l-1 thiamine, a process greatly augmented after cutaneous animal inoculation. It was verified that selective exogenous factors affect macroconidial production and that the dysgonic group of M. canis constitutes an epidemiologically significant group in the Greater Athens area. This is the first report of the occurrence of such M. canis strains from Greece.
Deep dermatophytosis caused by Trichophyton rubrum--a case report.	A case of deep dermatophytosis in the gluteal region in a male patient successfully treated with terbinafine is described with its clinical, mycological and histopathological features.
