Fluconazole prophylaxis against fungal colonization and infection in preterm infants.	Invasive fungal infection is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality in preterm infants. We evaluated the efficacy of prophylactic fluconazole in preventing fungal colonization and invasive infection in extremely-low-birth-weight infants.
Invasive infection with Trichosporon inkin in 2 siblings with chronic granulomatous disease.	A 9-year-old girl with autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) presented with asymptomatic bilateral pulmonary infiltrates on routine computed tomography. Fine-needle aspirate of the infiltrates was obtained and showed fungal cells resembling Trichosporon inkin . The specimen grew in culture, and testing by means of both API 20C and PCR amplification confirmed the diagnosis of T inkin . The infiltrates increased in size, despite sequential therapy with voriconazole, liposomal amphotericin B, caspofungin, and posaconazole. The patient required resection of the infected lung tissue, after which she recovered completely. While she was undergoing therapy, her 13-year-old brother, also with CGD, was given a diagnosis of bilateral T inkin -induced pulmonary infection. He also required bilateral pulmonary resection for cure. These cases demonstrate the predisposition of patients with CGD to have invasive infections with unusual fungal organisms, such as T inkin . They also illustrate the difficulty of treating invasive T inkin infections with antifungal agents alone. There are 9 previously reported cases of invasive infections caused by T inkin , 3 of which are in patients with CGD. All patients required removal of infected prosthetic devices or surgical resection of infected tissue for cure.
Invasive trichosporonosis due to Trichosporon asahii in a non-immunocompromised host: a rare case report.	A case of invasive Trichosporonosis due to Trichosporon asahii in an otherwise healthy young adult male presenting as meningoencephalitis and pneumonia is reported here. T. asahii was isolated from cerebrospinal fluid and sputum of the patient and morphologic forms of organism was also demonstrated on direct Gram stain of sputum. The isolate was identified as T. asahii. The patient partially responded to fluconazole therapy. Our case suggests that T. asahii can no longer be linked with Trichospronosis in immunocompromised patient alone and any case of meningitis needs thorough mycological workup for its correct etiological identification and appropriate management.
Contamination of an endoscope due to Trichosporon beigelli.	Trichosporon beigelli was isolated from the gastric aspirates of ten patients who had undergone endoscopy. Suspecting fungal contamination of the endoscopic equipment, samples from the biopsy channel, the water bottle, aspiration catheter and the tip of the endoscope were examined. Only the sample from the biopsy channel showed fungal elements on direct examination and grew Trichosporon beigelli. The original source for the fungus was an immunocompromised patient who had undergone endoscopy earlier. This episode occurred despite adherence to apparently adequate disinfection procedures for endoscopes. Because of the risk of cross-infection, especially in immunocompromised patients, it is imperative to take special steps to prevent fungal contamination of endoscopes.
Cavitating pneumonia due to Trichosporon beigelii in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia.	A 21-year-old man with acute myeloid leukaemia developed cavitating pneumonia while neutropenic and on broad spectrum antibiotics following induction chemotherapy. Trichosporon beigelii was isolated from several samples of sputum. He was successfully treated with amphotericin B. Previous reports of lung infection with this organism are reviewed.
Clinical and mycological study of 11 cases of genitopubic trichosporosis nodosa (white piedra)]	Piedra (stone in Spanish) is the name given to a trichomycosis characterized by the formation of nodules resembling small stones. There are two varieties of the disease, depending on the colour of the nodules: white piedra and black piedra. Black piedra sharply differs from white piedra on three main scores: a) the causative agent is a black filamentous and sexed dematicious fungus, Piedraia hortai; b) the disease exclusively affects the scalp, and c) the geographical distribution of human black piedra is limited to tropical and subtropical areas (South America, South-East Asia). White piedra has a different aetiology, being caused by an asexual fungus, Trichosporon beigeli. The genus Trichosporon (Behrend, 1890) and the species T. beigeli (Vuillemin, 1902) were created from a case of piedra of the moustache. White piedra may involve hairy regions other than the scalp, such as the beard and moustache, less frequently the armpits, eyebrows, eyelashes and pubic hair. The disease has been observed in all continents, except Africa, and under all climates, although it is exceptionally found in cold areas (two indigenous cases in Finland). The observatio princeps of white piedra (on a false chignon) was published in 1865 by Beigel, in London. In France, only three cases, all concerning the moustache, were reported at the very beginning of this century No other case has been published in that country in the east 80 years. T. beigeli is a common saprophyte in nature. It has been found in soil, water, fruit, rotten vegetables, sawdust, as well as in man (skin, skin appendages, mucosae) and in animals (mammals, insects, mussels).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Microbiological and clinical study of fungemia between 1981 and 1992]	Fungi were isolated from 113 (14.2%) of 789 patients with positive blood cultures at Oita Medical University Hospital between 1981 and 1992. The rates of fungemia increased in recent years, 13.9% (1981-1985), 12.1% (1986-1988) and 16.9% (1989-1992). The isolated fungi were Candida parapsilosis (25.7%), C. albicans (24.8%), C. tropicalis (14.2%), Trichosporon beigelii (10.6%), C. glabrata (8.0%) and so on. The major fungi were T. beigelii and C. glabrata in patients with hematologic malignancies, whereas they were C. albicans and C. parapsilosis in patients with non-hematologic diseases and C. glabrata increased in both groups. Prophylactic or emiric administration of antifungal agents probably influenced the difference of the causative organisms in the two groups.
Fontana-Masson--stained tissue from culture-proven mycoses.	The Fontana-Masson stain can be used to detect melanin of dematiaceous fungi such as Curvularia lunata and Bipolaris hawaiiensis in tissue. This stain is often used to identify fungi that may not have an evident brown color in hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections. However, it is not clear whether hyphae of nondematiaceous fungi can be stained with the Fontana-Masson procedure.
