Effect of temperature on the fracture toughness of compact bone.	Bone is a composite composed mainly of organics, minerals, and water. Many researchers have studied effects such as crack velocity, density, orientation, storage media, porosity, and age on the fracture toughness (K(C), also called critical stress intensity factor) of compact bone. Most of these studies were conducted at room temperature. Considering that the body temperature of animals is greater than room temperature, and that bone has a large volumetric percentage of organics and water (generally, 55-65%), it is hypothesized that temperature has a significant effect on the fracture toughness of compact bone. Single-edge V-notched (SEVN) specimens were prepared to measure the fracture toughness of bovine femur and manatee rib in water at 0, 10, 23, 37, and 50 degrees C in four-point flexure. The fracture toughness values of bovine femur and manatee rib were found to decrease from 7.0 to 4.3MPam(1/2) and from 5.5 to 4.0MPam(1/2), respectively, as temperature increased over a temperature range of 50 degrees C. The results support the hypothesis that temperature has a significant effect on the fracture toughness of compact bone. Therefore, we suggest that study on fracture toughness of bone should be done at physiologically relevant temperatures.
Manatee position estimation by passive acoustic localization.	Passive sound source localization with sensor arrays is based on the estimation of the time difference of arrival (TDOA), and precise TDOA is required to achieve accurate position estimation. For a majority of practical localization systems (based on TDOA estimation with four sensors in two dimensions), only three time delays are computed to determine the location of interest. This paper presents an approach to determine the position of a manatee by using four hydrophones and all the combinations of the TDOAs available. With four hydrophones, six TDOAs are computed and then combined three by three to get 20 possible points for each position to estimate. Experimental results using the Hilbert envelope peak technique to estimate the TDOAs and the least square method to estimate the position are presented. For the tests conducted it is shown that for a manatee call having a high signal-to-noise ratio, the individual position estimated for each of the 20 combinations of TDOAs lies on a straight line, providing a good estimation of the direction of arrival approximately 85% of the time. However, a good estimation of the position is obtained for a manatee near the hydrophone array approximately 55% of the time.
Latitudinal gradients in greenhouse seawater δ(18) O: evidence from Eocene sirenian tooth enamel.	The Eocene greenhouse climate state has been linked to a more vigorous hydrologic cycle at mid- and high latitudes; similar information on precipitation levels at low latitudes is, however, limited. Oxygen isotopic fluxes track moisture fluxes and, thus, the δ(18)O values of ocean surface waters can provide insight into hydrologic cycle changes. The offset between tropical δ(18)O values from sampled Eocene sirenian tooth enamel and modern surface waters is greater than the expected 1.0 per mil increase due to increased continental ice volume. This increased offset could result from suppression of surface-water δ(18)O values by a tropical, annual moisture balance substantially wetter than that of today. Results from an atmospheric general circulation model support this interpretation and suggest that Eocene low latitudes were extremely wet.
A single glycine-alanine exchange directs ligand specificity of the elephant progestin receptor.	The primary gestagen of elephants is 5α-dihydroprogesterone (DHP), which is unlike all other mammals studied until now. The level of DHP in elephants equals that of progesterone in other mammals, and elephants are able to bind DHP with similar affinity to progesterone indicating a unique ligand-binding specificity of the elephant progestin receptor (PR). Using site-directed mutagenesis in combination with in vitro binding studies we here report that this change in specificity is due to a single glycine to alanine exchange at position 722 (G722A) of PR, which specifically increases DHP affinity while not affecting binding of progesterone. By conducting molecular dynamics simulations comparing human and elephant PR ligand-binding domains (LBD), we observed that the alanine methyl group at position 722 is able to push the DHP A-ring into a position similar to progesterone. In the human PR, the DHP A-ring position is twisted towards helix 3 of PR thereby disturbing the hydrogen bond pattern around the C3-keto group, resulting in a lower binding affinity. Furthermore, we observed that the elephant PR ligand-binding pocket is more rigid than the human analogue, which probably explains the higher affinity towards both progesterone and DHP. Interestingly, the G722A substitution is not elephant-specific, rather it is also present in five independent lineages of mammalian evolution, suggesting a special role of the substitution for the development of distinct mammalian gestagen systems.
