Color Doppler velocity accuracy proximal to regurgitant orifices: influence of orifice aspect ratio.	Many noninvasive methodologies used for the accurate evaluation of valvular regurgitation require precise velocity measurements from ultrasound instruments. Previous studies have indicated that velocity measurements from color Doppler (CD) instruments are susceptible to errors due to the interaction of the ultrasound beam and the proximal orifice flow field. This study examined the influence of high aspect ratio (AR) orifices on the CD velocity error. Center line velocity error distributions for orifices ranging from 7.07 to 78.5 mm2, varying in shape from circular to an AR = 8 ellipse, were evaluated using a numerical model of the ultrasound beam and the simulated regurgitant flow field. An in vitro study was also performed and confirmed the findings of the numerical model. The study showed that increasing AR does not significantly change the error characteristics. The study confirmed that orifice size is the dominant factor in the error distribution, and that corrections speculated for circular orifices can be extended to elliptical orifices without significant errors.
The Coapsys device to treat functional mitral regurgitation: in vivo long-term canine study.	We evaluated the capability of the Myocor Coapsys device (Myocor, Inc, Maple Grove, Minn) to reduce functional mitral regurgitation in a canine model of dilated cardiomyopathy.
Load dependence of cardiac output in biventricular pacing: right ventricular volume overload in pigs.	Previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that optimization of biventricular pacing is load dependent. During acute pulmonary stenosis and right ventricular pressure overload in swine, cardiac output was maximized by pacing the right ventricle 40 ms before the left ventricle. To extend those studies, this experiment examined biventricular pacing optimization during right ventricular volume overload.
Tricuspid valve tethering predicts residual tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid annuloplasty.	Tricuspid valve (TV) annuloplasty is recommended for functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR), which is caused by TV annulus dilatation and tethering of the leaflets. However, the impact of TV deformations on the outcome of TV annuloplasty remains unknown. The goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between preoperative TV deformation and residual TR after TV annuloplasty.
Anesthesia for severe mitral and tricuspid regurgitation.	Anesthesia for mitral or tricuspid regurgitation should be designed to maintain cardiac output by decreasing systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance to aortic and pulmonary outflow, respectively, and by carefully preserving venous return. A moderate increase in heart rate may be helpful with mitral regurgitation; bradycardia should be avoided. Isoflurane, halothane, or opioid anesthesia is preferred.
The importance of tricuspid valve structure and function in the surgical treatment of rheumatic mitral and aortic disease.	A significant proportion of individuals with rheumatic disease have tricuspid valve involvement which may be clinically important and alter the medical or surgical approach to treatment. Therefore 50 patients with rheumatic left-sided valvular lesions who were referred for operative treatment were studied. Thirty patients had angiographically significant tricuspid regurgitation (group I) and 20 had a competent tricuspid valve (group II). Pre-operative cardiac assessment included Doppler echocardiography and contrast ventriculography. Patients with tricuspid regurgitation more commonly had mitral valve disease or combined mitral and aortic valve lesions, (P less than 0.001) and were more likely to have atrial fibrillation than those without tricuspid regurgitation (P less than 0.001). Pulmonary arterial systolic and mean right atrial pressures were higher in group I (both P less than 0.01). A close relationship was found between the angiographic and Doppler assessment of the degree of tricuspid regurgitation (P less than 0.01). Doppler-derived measurement of the right ventricular-right atrial systolic pressure difference correlated well with the systolic trans-tricuspid pressure difference measured at cardiac catheterization (y = 0.7x + 22, r = 0.67, P less than 0.001) and the pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (y = 0.8x + 27, r = 0.71, P less than 0.001). Rheumatic involvement of the tricuspid valve identified by pre-operative echocardiography was confirmed in five patients at surgery. Of the 13 patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation at operation, only two had been diagnosed as having organic disease by echocardiography. Furthermore, in all 18 cases where Doppler suggested grade 3 or 4+ tricuspid regurgitation, surgical repair or replacement of the valve was performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of atrio-ventricular delay programming in patients with DDDR pacemakers.	Modern DDDR (dual chamber universal, rate responsive) pacemakers are complex, hugely capable devices incorporating new features that theoretically should enhance haemodynamics and therefore quality of life. Ten patients (mean age 48 years) with chronotropic incompetence and high grade A-V block had activity sensing DDDR devices implanted and underwent a randomized double-blind crossover assessment of rate responsive and different fixed atrio-ventricular delay (AVD) settings during 2 weeks of out-of-hospital activity in DDDR mode. Subjective assessment showed improved 'general wellbeing' and preference for 175 ms rate responsive AVD (P less than 0.01) or 125 ms fixed AVD (P less than 0.05). The longest fixed AVD setting (250 ms) was least acceptable and had increased symptom prevalence (P less than 0.02). Perceived exercise capacity and exercise treadmill tolerance was not significantly different at any setting in DDDR mode but was less in DDD mode. Echocardiographically derived stroke distance was greater at 125 ms AVD than 250 ms at 100 b.min-1 (P less than 0.05) but did not differ at slower heart rates at any AVD. Colour Doppler assessed mitral and tricuspid regurgitation was greatest at 250 ms AVD at all heart rates but did not correlate with increased symptomatology. Stroke distance evaluated from the mitral inflow velocity profile allows improved AVD programming during DDDR pacing. Rate adaptive A-V delay is a useful feature during DDDR pacing.
Relation of tricuspid inflow E-wave peak velocity to severity of tricuspid regurgitation.	E-wave velocity in mitral flow has previously been shown to discriminate between severe and nonsevere mitral regurgitation. In this study, we sought to explore this association in the tricuspid position. The peak velocity of the tricuspid inflow E wave was measured in 118 patients (mean age 62 +/- 16.6 years; 48% women). Patients with tricuspid stenosis, transvenous pacemakers, and tricuspid prostheses were excluded. E-wave measurements were taken during shallow breathing. Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) was quantified as none or mild (group 1), moderate (group 2), or severe (group 3), according to American Society of Echocardiography guidelines. Forty-three patients had mild TR, 43 had moderate TR, and 33 had severe TR. Peak E-wave velocity was 48.6 +/- 13.8, 48.6 +/- 11.7, and 78.3 +/- 26.1 cm/s in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (p > 0.0001). Mean E-wave velocity was similar in groups 1 and 2 but greater in group 3 (p < 0.0001). A peak E-wave velocity of > or = 65 cm/s had a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 88% for the detection of severe TR. In conclusion, increased peak tricuspid E-wave velocity is associated with severe TR and thus can be used as a simple measure of TR grade.
Elevated pulmonary artery pressure by Doppler echocardiography predicts hospitalization for heart failure and mortality in ambulatory stable coronary artery disease: the Heart and Soul Study.	We compared the predictive ability of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) and end-diastolic pulmonary regurgitation (EDPR) gradients in outpatients with coronary artery disease.
Reduced ventricular volumes and improved systolic function with cardiac resynchronization therapy: a randomized trial comparing simultaneous biventricular pacing, sequential biventricular pacing, and left ventricular pacing.	Cardiac resynchronization therapy has emerged as an important therapy for advanced systolic heart failure. Among available cardiac resynchronization therapy pacing modes that restore ventricular synchrony, it is uncertain whether simultaneous biventricular (BiV), sequential BiV, or left ventricular (LV) pacing is superior. The Device Evaluation of CONTAK RENEWAL 2 and EASYTRAK 2: Assessment of Safety and Effectiveness in Heart Failure (DECREASE-HF) trial is the first randomized trial comparing these 3 cardiac resynchronization therapy modalities.
Reduced exercise capacity in patients with tricuspid regurgitation after successful mitral valve replacement for rheumatic mitral valve disease.	To determine how severe tricuspid regurgitation influences exercise capacity and functional state in patients who have undergone successful mitral valve replacement for rheumatic mitral valve disease.
Tricuspid annular motion as a predictor of severe right ventricular failure after left ventricular assist device implantation.	Right ventricular (RV) failure after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation is associated with a high rate of morbidity and mortality. We sought to determine pre-operative right heart echocardiographic predictors of post-LVAD severe RV failure.
Idiopathic occlusion of the fetal ductus arteriosus without lumen narrowing.	Constriction of the fetal ductus arteriosus in utero can be caused by pharmacological agents or can occur spontaneously. The spontaneous constriction and closure of the ductus arteriosus have been reported sporadically in the previous literature, either completely obliterated or constricted ductus arteriosus causing narrowing. This cardiac defect was characterized by no blood flow through the ductus arteriosus without lumen narrowing. The fetal echocardiography revealed the features of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. We report a case of occlusion of the ductus arteriosus at 38 weeks of gestation that had a favorable postnatal outcome after immediate cesarean section.
Incremental prognostic value of early postoperative right ventricular systolic function in patients undergoing surgery for isolated severe tricuspid regurgitation.	Preoperative right ventricular end-systolic area (RV-ESA) and haemoglobin level have been suggested to be independent predictors of long-term prognosis in patients undergoing corrective surgery for isolated severe tricuspid regurgitation (TR).
Right ventricular papillary muscle approximation as a novel technique of valve repair for functional tricuspid regurgitation in an ex vivo porcine model.	Annuloplasty for functional tricuspid regurgitation may sometimes be ineffective because of chamber dilation and valve tethering. This study compared a novel technique, right ventricle (RV)-papillary muscle approximation, with annuloplasty in experimentally-produced tricuspid regurgitation.
Effects of respiration on the velocity of tricuspid regurgitation and estimation of systolic pulmonary artery pressure in patients with right ventricle systolic dysfunction.	We investigated the effects of quiet respiration on the peak velocity of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) and estimation of systolic pulmonary artery pressure (SPAP) in patients with right ventricle (RV) systolic dysfunction using Doppler echocardiography.
Assessment of perfusion pattern and extent of perfusion defect on dual-energy CT angiography: correlations between the causes of pulmonary hypertension and vascular parameters.	To assess perfusion patterns on a dual-energy pulmonary CT angiography (DECTA) of pulmonary hypertension (PHT) with variable causes and to assess whether the extent of perfusion defect can be used in the severity assessment of PHT.
Adjustable annuloplasty for tricuspid insufficiency.	De Vega described a technique for tricuspid annuloplasty using synthetic suture to reduce the size of the dilated annulus. We present our experience with an adjustable modification of de Vega's suture annuloplasty technique. The records of 12 patients followed for 15 to 30 months were reviewed. All 10 survivors had a significant drop in right-sided filling pressure (average, 39% decrease) and an associated improvement in clinical status. The 2 deaths in the series were not related to persistent tricuspid insufficiency. This technique represents a reliable, rapid, and readily teachable method for the surgical management of tricuspid insufficiency.
Effects of tricuspid regurgitation on thermodilution cardiac output: studies in an animal model.	The thermal dilution technique (TD) of measuring cardiac output (Q) has been assumed to be inaccurate when the tricuspid valve is regurgitant (TR). The indicator transit time from the right atrium to pulmonary artery (PA) is prolonged and may increase indicator loss to the heart and adjacent tissue. We surgically created TR in four anaesthetized dogs and compared simultaneous cardiac output measurement made with an implanted PA flow probe with intermittent TD cardiac output measurements. We found an excellent correlation (r = 0.98) between the techniques in the normal heart when Q was increased by 100-150 per cent of control values using an intravenous dobutamine infusion. After TR was produced by incorporating the tricuspid valve leaflet within a suture, Q decreased. Dextran 40 was then infused and Q increased significantly. The rate at which Q increased was greater with the TD technique than with the PA flow probe; however, a significant (r = 0.85) linear relationship was still present with TR. The altered thermal waveform detected by the PA thermistor in TR was characterized by a lower peak amplitude and a slower return to baseline. Within the limitations of an animal model, our data suggest that TD cardiac output may be more accurate than previously assumed, particularly in low output states.
Technical and biologic sources of variability in the mapping of aortic, mitral and tricuspid color flow jets.	The quantification of valvular regurgitation by 2-dimensional Doppler imaging depends on identifying and minimizing variability. Aortic, mitral and tricuspid regurgitant jet areas were measured in 50 patients with sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation to analyze the variables of reading error, valve site, jet size, rhythm and frame rate. One technician recorded jet velocities at 1 frame/cycle at a triggered interval after the electrocardiographic R wave and at frame rates of 7.5 and 15 frames/s. Jet areas from 5 consecutive beats were measured by planimetry by 1 observer. Coefficients of variation between and among groups were compared by analysis of variance; mean values were 14 to 22%. Jets grouped less than 2.5, 2.5 to 5 and greater than 5 cm2 showed the variance of small jets exceeding that of medium and large jets. Aortic regurgitant jets were largest and had smaller variance than mitral tricuspid jets. Variability due to atrial fibrillation and the slower frame rate was marginal. Intraobserver error was 4.3% and interobserver 15.4%. Thus, reproducing jet areas carries a minimum variability of 15% or higher, depending on jet size. Valve site could not be excluded as a separate variable. Comparative quantification is best limited to 1 observer.
Failure of porcine aortic and bovine pericardial prosthetic valves: an experimental investigation in young sheep.	Seventeen porcine aortic and 10 bovine pericardial bioprosthetic valves were implanted in the tricuspid position in 27 young sheep. Clinical, hemodynamic and morphologic evaluations were performed after a mean of 4.7 +/- 0.3 months (range 3-7 months) after implantation. Eight sheep developed ascites (five with porcine aortic and three with bovine pericardial bioprosthetic valves); all 27 sheep had microscopic evidence of hepatic congestion. Three porcine and three bovine valves became infected. Hemodynamic studies (n = 15) performed immediately after implantation and at the time of terminal elective studies showed that tricuspid valve end-diastolic gradients increased from 0.7 +/- 0.4 mm Hg to 4.5 +/- 0.5 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). All 27 valves had calcific deposits. By quantitative analyses, unimplanted cuspal tissue (n = 9) had 0.6 +/- 0.1 mg/g of calcium/g tissue dry weight; explanted porcine aortic valves (n = 16) had 182 +/- 74 and bovine pericardial valves (n = 6) 421 +/- 115 mg/g of calcium/g of tissue dry weight (NS for porcine aortic vs bovine pericardial valves). Morphologic findings were similar in both porcine aortic and bovine pericardial valves, and consisted of calcific deposits, collagen degeneration, microthrombi and fibrous sheaths. These findings are almost identical to those associated with bioprosthetic valvular failure in humans. In our experimental study, we found no significant differences in the development of calcification in porcine aortic and bovine pericardial bioprosthetic valves.
Dynamic three-dimensional echocardiographic assessment of intracardiac blood flow jets.	Transthoracic dynamic 3-dimensional reconstruction of the heart with tissue depiction has been proved to be feasible when using various methods of data acquisition. The same method can theoretically be applied to color Doppler flows to generate dynamic 3-dimensional images of intracardiac blood flow jets. To explore the feasibility of this approach, we studied 41 patients with various valvular disorders or intracardiac shunts. We acquired sequential 2-dimensional images along with color Doppler information using rotational scanning from a transthoracic or a subcostal window. Images were digitized and processed for 3-dimensional reconstruction using dedicated software. After adequate segmentation, the flow jets were displayed in 3 dimensions in a gray scale format. With use of this approach, 3-dimensional reconstruction of color Doppler flows was possible in all but 1 patient. Still frames allowed immediate appreciation of the shape of the jets, their location in the cardiac chambers, and their size related to that cavity. Dynamic display was even more striking by showing the flow in real time. Dynamic 3-dimensional images enabled visualization of flow jets in projections not available in conventional color flow Doppler, looking directly at the views of shunt and regurgitant flows, and also permitted 3-dimensional delineation of flow convergence zones. We conclude that dynamic visualization of various intracardiac flows in 3 dimensions using transthoracic echocardiography is possible. It provides a better understanding of the shape and size of the jets, and can potentially aid in flow quantification by displaying the actual shape of flow convergence regions.
Current status and indications for contrast echocardiography]	Due to newly developed techniques contrast echocardiography (CE) is less often applied today. As to reevaluate the usefulness and the indications for CE 7823 consecutive echocardiographic studies were analysed. In 638 (8%) of these studies CE was used. 379 patients showed signs of right ventricular overload, 58 due to a left-to-right shunt. Pressure overload due to pulmonary hypertension was found in 321 cases. CE enhanced doppler flow signals in tricuspid regurgitation and facilitated quantification of right heart dimensions. 259 patients were screened for patent foramen ovale (PFO), 94 after embolic events, and 165 because neurosurgical intervention in a sitting position was planned. So CE proved to be still indicated in the era of color flow doppler, especially for the detection of PFO.
Simultaneous measurement of systolic pulmonary artery pressure by catheterization and contrast enhancement doppler echocardiography]	The aim of this study was to assess the value of echocardiographic contrast in measuring systolic pulmonary artery pressures. Thirty-four patients with an average age of 61 +/- 15 years undergoing right heart catheterisation had a simultaneous measurement of systolic pulmonary artery pressures by catheter and colour-coded Doppler echocardiography under basal conditions and after injection of 5% dextrose agitated with 1 cm3 of air to form microcavitations. The Doppler echocardiographic measurements were performed after withdrawal of the catheter into the inferior vena cava before and after injection of contrast. Patients were divided into two groups according to the pulmonary artery pressures at catheterisation: Group I, comprising 11 patients with systolic pulmonary artery pressures of less than 35 mmHg; Group II, comprising 23 patients with systolic pulmonary artery pressures of over 35 mmHg; The injection of contrast significantly increased the number of patients in whom systolic pulmonary artery pressures could be calculated from the Doppler signal of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) in Group I (control: 18%; contrast: 100%, p < 0.01) and Group II (control: 65%; contrast: 96%, p < 0.05). There was a close correlation between the catheter and Doppler measurements of the trans-tricuspid valve pressure gradients before and after injection of contrast in Group I (n = 11, r = 0.85, p = 0.001, with an estimated standard error (ESE) = 3.8 mmHg) and in Group II (control: n = 15, r = 0.89, p = 0.001, ESE = 10.5 mmHg, and after contrast: n = 22, .r = 0.90, p = 0.001, ESE = 7.95 mmHg) with the catheter in the right ventricle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Doppler-derived systolic pulmonary artery pressure in acute neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.	To determine the course of systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) in association with ductal shunting and cardiac output (CO) in preterm neonates.
