A preliminary study on vaginal trichomonal antigens using CIEP and modified ELISA.	The enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and counter-immunoelectrophoresis (CIEP) were used to detect T. vaginalis antigens in vaginal discharge of 47 infected women and 35 controls. Rabbit antisera raised against T. vaginalis were used as antitrichomonal antibodies. The sensitivity of ELISA was 95.7% and specificity was 91.4 in contrast to 68.1 and 77.1% for CIEP. So ELISA could be applied for epidemiological study and immunodiagnosis of vaginal trichomoniasis.
Molecular basis of host epithelial cell recognition by Trichomonas vaginalis.	Parasitism of host epithelial cells by Trichomonas vaginalis is a highly specific event. Four trichomonad surface proteins (adhesins) with molecular masses of 65,000 daltons (65 kDa; AP65), 51 kDa (AP51), 33 kDa (AP33), and 23 kDa (AP23) mediate the interaction of T. vaginalis with epithelial cells. Fresh isolates, when compared with long-term-grown isolates, had greater amounts of adhesins, which corresponded with increased levels of cytoadherence. Anti-adhesin antibodies reacted by immunoblot only with the respective protein and detected, by indirect immunofluorescence, each adhesion on the parasite surface. These antibodies inhibited the binding of live parasites to epithelial cells and protected epithelial cells from contact-dependent cytotoxicity. The pretreatment of epithelial cells with a preparation of purified adhesions also blocked trichomonal cytoadherence. Moreover, HeLa cells possessed molecules which recognized and bound to adhesins on nitrocellulose blots.
The use of polyclonal activators in the production of murine monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies.	We propose a new immunization method to stimulate a strong immune response against weak or diluted antigens. This technique is based on stimulation with polyclonal activators before exposure to the antigens. We also discuss the efficiency of various types of mitogen with particular regard to their capacity to produce monoclonal antibodies and serum antibodies. A specific immune response against soluble antigens is increased by pretreating mice with PPD. This preactivation permitted us to obtain monoclonal antibodies against weak antigens in a few days. No monoclonal antibodies were obtained by inoculating weak antigens or the activators by themselves.
Trichomonas vaginalis antigens in vaginal and urine specimens by immunochromatography, compared to culture and microscopy.	This study evaluated the immunochromatographic (IC) capillary flow technology for detection of T. vaginalis antigens in vaginal and urine specimens. The IC antigen-detection test and microscopy wet smears were assessed against the InPouch TV culture. Vaginal-swabs and first-voided urine specimens were obtained from 348 sexually active symptomatic or asymptomatic, > or =16 years old women. Nineteen samples (5%) were positive by culture (95%, CI 0.3-0.8). The IC test (vaginal-specimens) was more sensitive than the wet smears. IC sensitivity was 84% (95%CI, 0.68-1.01), specificity 98% (95%CI, 0.96-0.99), positive predictive value (PPV) 70% (95%CI, 0.51-0.88), negative predictive value (NPV) 99% (95%CI, 0.98-1), (positive likelihood ratio (+LR): 39.6, and negative likelihood ratio (-LR) 0.2. The IC test using urine as a substrate had less performance than both microscopy and IC test of vaginal specimens. Urine-IC sensitivity was 53% (95%CI, 0.30-0.75), specificity 99% (95% CI, 0.98-1.00), PPV 77% (95%CI, 0.54-1), NPV 97% (95%CI, 0.96-0.99), +LR: 57.7, and -LR: 0.5. Sensitivity of vaginal smear was 68% (95%CI, 0.48-0.89), specificity 100%, PPV 100% (95% CI, 1), NPV 98% (95% CI, 0.97-1), +LR>225, & -LR: 0.3. T. vaginalis was diagnosed in two wet urine samples, but not in smears. The IC antigen improved T. vaginalis diagnosis, especially in screening, rapid, or point-of-care test, but in urine was less reliable than with vaginal smear.
Immunoproteomics of the active degradome to identify biomarkers for Trichomonas vaginalis.	Trichomonas vaginalis, a sexually transmitted parasite, has many cysteine proteinases (CPs); some are involved in trichomonal pathogenesis, express during infection, and antibodies against CPs have been detected in patient sera. The goal of this study was to identify the antigenic proteinases of T. vaginalis as potential biomarkers for trichomonosis. The proteases detected when T. vaginalis protein extracts are incubated without protease inhibitors, the trichomonad-active degradome, and the immunoproteome were obtained by using 2-DE, 2-D-zymograms, 2-D-Western blot (WB) assays with trichomonosis patient sera, and MS analysis. Forty-nine silver-stained spots were detected in the region of 200-21 kDa of parasite protease-resistant extracts. A similar proteolytic pattern was observed in the 2-D zymograms. Nine CPs were identified in the 30 kDa region (TvCP1, TvCP2, TvCP3, TvCP4, TvCP4-like, TvCP12, TvCPT, TvLEGU-1, and another legumain-like CP). The major reactive spots to T. vaginalis-positive patient sera by 2-D-WB corresponded to four papain-like (TvCP2, TvCP4, TvCP4-like, TvCPT), and one legumain-like (TvLEGU-1) CPs. The genes of TvCP4, TvCPT, and TvLEGU-1 were cloned, sequenced, and expressed in Escherichia coli. Purified recombinant CPs were recognized by culture-positive patient sera in 1-D-WB assays. These data show that some CPs could be potential biomarkers for serodiagnosis of trichomonosis.
Does lactobacillus vaccine for trichomoniasis, Solco Trichovac, induce antibody reactive with Trichomonas vaginalis?	Solco Trichovac is a vaccine of Lactobacillus acidophilus developed for treating trichomoniasis. The efficacy of the vaccine is reportedly due to cross reacting antibody being produced in people immunised with the lactobacillus bacteria. Several techniques, including enzyme linked immunosorbent, indirect immunofluorescence, immunoblot, and radioimmunoprecipitation assays were used to assess the extent of antigenic cross reactivity between Lactobacillus acidophilus and Trichomonas vaginalis. Data show a lack of antigenic relatedness between the Solco Trichovac lactobacilli and several strains of T vaginalis. Furthermore, antiserum to L acidophilus failed to inhibit trichomonad cytadherence or host cell killing, as is suggested by the producers of the Solco Trichovac vaccine.
Detection of Trichomonas vaginalis antigen in women by enzyme immunoassay.	An enzyme immunoassay (EIA) was developed for the detection of Trichomonas vaginalis antigen in vaginal swabs. Four hundred and eighty two women attending a sexually transmitted disease (STD) clinic were tested; 44 (9.1%) were positive by culture, 32 (6.6%) were positive by wet film examination, and 54 (11.2%) were considered to be positive for trichomonal antigen by EIA. Taking culture as the reference method, the EIA had a sensitivity of 93.2% and a specificity of 97.5%. The predictive value of a positive test was 82% and that of a negative test was 99.3%.
Immunocytochemical identification of trichomonads.	Trichomonas vaginalis is one of the more common pathogens of the genitourinary tract. Morphologic studies of trichomonal infections, however, have been hampered by the fragile nature of these thin-walled flagellates and the lack of specific histochemical procedures to identify the fragmented organisms found in tissue sections. These limitations have usually restricted positive identification to smears of freshly obtained specimens. In an attempt to overcome these limitations, a rabbit antiserum specific for Trichomonas organisms was produced by repeated subcutaneous injections of a documented strain of T vaginalis maintained in vitro. Using this antiserum, immunoperoxidase techniques have been modified so that trichomonads have been clearly identified both in smears and in paraffin-embedded tissue sections. This method seems to be useful in establishing the presence of these organisms in tissue and may subsequently contribute to the histopathologic definition of trichomoniasis in man.
