Effect of calcium on the uptake of glutamate by synaptosomes: possible involvement of two different mechanisms.	The effects of Ca2+ on glutamate uptake by synaptosomes were investigated. Glutamate uptake was decreased in the absence of Ca2+ with 2 mM EGTA added to the medium. After a 8-min preincubation, the uptake reduced to the greatest extent (about 64% of the uptake measured in Ca2+ medium). According to the kinetic analysis, lack of Ca2+ resulted in a reduction of the Vmax for glutamate uptake. These results suggested external Ca2+ was necessary for the optimal uptake of glutamate. TTX, an inhibitor of the voltage-dependent Na+ channel, almost reversed the reduction of glutamate uptake, indicating that the uptake might be impaired via the partial activation of the voltage-dependent tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channel. On the other hand, glutamate uptake was decreased by trifluoperazine, a calmodulin antagonist, and KN-62, an inhibitor of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, implying that intrasynaptosomal Ca2+ might also have a role in the uptake of glutamate, and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent processes, such as Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, might be involved in the modulation of glutamate transporter activity.
The effect of quinine on outer hair cell shape, compliance and force.	Quinine intoxication causes a well-described syndrome that includes tinnitus, sensorineural hearing loss and vertigo. The pathophysiology of quinine's effects on hearing is unknown, but may include a peripheral component. The cochlear outer hair cell is known to be motile and to contribute force to amplify the vibration pattern of the organ of Corti. The outer hair cell is also a target of diseases involving tinnitus and sensorineural hearing loss, including salicylate intoxication. These effects may be mediated through changes either in motile force or in mechanical properties. Quinine's effects on outer hair cell motility and mechanical properties have therefore been examined in vitro. Quinine at 5.0 mM substantially decreased active force generation in isolated guinea pig cochlear outer hair cells. Isolated cells also elongated and dilated in diameter when exposed to 5.0 mM quinine. No consistent changes in mechanical properties were observed. 1.0 mM quinine was ineffective in either force reduction or elongation. Trifluoperazine, a calmodulin inhibitor, and ML-9, a blocker of myosin light chain kinases, were ineffective in blocking quinine-induced force reduction or elongation. Deferoxamine, a hydroxyl free radical scavenger, also failed to block either the force decrease or the elongation.
Apoptosis and tumorigenesis in human cholangiocarcinoma cells. Involvement of Fas/APO-1 (CD95) and calmodulin.	We have previously demonstrated that tamoxifen inhibits the growth of human cholangiocarcinoma cells in culture and inhibits tumor growth when cells are injected into nude mice. However, the mechanism of action of tamoxifen remains unknown. Here we demonstrate that tamoxifen and trifluoperazine, both potent calmodulin antagonists, induce apoptosis in vitro, probably acting via the Fas system, in human cholangiocarcinoma cells. Human cholangiocarcinoma cell lines heterogeneously express Fas antigen on their surface. Fas-negative and Fas-positive surface-expressing cells were isolated, cloned, and cultured. Fas antibody, tamoxifen, and trifluoperazine induced dose-dependent apoptosis only in Fas-positive cells; Fas-negative cells were unaffected. Furthermore, apoptosis induced by tamoxifen in Fas-positive cells was blocked by an inhibitory Fas antibody. Tamoxifen was not acting through an anti-estrogenic mechanism, because neither Fas-negative nor Fas-positive cells expressed estrogen receptors and the pure anti-estrogen compound, ICI 182780, did not induce apoptosis in either cell line. Fas-negative cells, but not Fas-positive cells, were able to produce tumors when subcutaneously injected into nude mice. These findings suggest Fas may be a candidate oncogene involved in the pathogenesis of cholangiocarcinoma. Furthermore, the similarity between the pro-apoptotic effects of tamoxifen and trifluoperazine support an underlying molecular mechanism for Fas-mediated apoptosis that involves calmodulin.
Glyoxalase I from Brassica juncea is a calmodulin stimulated protein.	Brassica juncea glyoxalase I (S-lactoylglutathione-lyase, EC 4.4.1. 5) is a 56 kDa, heterodimeric protein. It requires magnesium (Mg2+) for its optimal activity. In this report we provide biochemical evidence for modulation of glyoxalase I activity by calcium/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM). In the presence of Ca2+ glyoxalase I showed a significant (2.6-fold) increase in its activity. It also showed a Ca2+ dependent mobility shift on denaturing gels. Its Ca2+ binding was confirmed by Chelex-100 assay and gel overlays using 45CaCl2. Glyoxalase I was activated by over 7-fold in the presence of Ca2+ (25 microM) and CaM (145 nM) and this stimulation was blocked by the CaM antibodies and a CaM inhibitor, trifluroperazine (150 microM). Glyoxalase I binds to a CaM-Sepharose column and was eluted by EGTA. The eluted protein fractions also showed stimulation by CaM. The stimulation of glyoxalase I activity by CaM was maximum in the presence of Mg2+ and Ca2+; however, magnesium alone also showed glyoxalase I activation by CaM.
Ca2+ and calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase from Leishmania donovani.	A protein phosphatase exclusively dependent upon micromolar amounts of Ca2+ and calmodulin has been identified and partially purified from Leishmania spp. Complete obliteration of its activity is observed in the presence of calmodulin antagonists such as trifluoperazine, fluphenazine and calmidazolium. Relative insensitivity to okadaic acid and lack of activation in the absence of Ca2+ and calmodulin distinguishes this enzyme from PP1, PP2A and PP2C-type protein phosphatases. Cross-reactivity of the enzyme was observed with antibodies that recognize both the A and B chains of calcineurin, a PP2B type Ca2+ and calmodulin-dependent phosphatase from brain. FK506, an immunosuppresive drug that inhibits the enzyme from other sources inhibited the enzyme only in the presence of exogenous FK binding protein, whereas Cyclosporin A inhibited the enzyme in crude preparations. Taken together these results reveal the presence of a Ca2+ and calmodulin-dependent phosphatase from Leishmania. This is the first report of the presence of a PP2B-type protein phosphatase from a pathogenic protozoa.
Trifluoperazine: a broad spectrum bactericide especially active on staphylococci and vibrios.	Trifluoperazine showed some significant antimicrobial activity when tested against 293 strains from two Gram-positive and eight Gram-negative genera. Minimum inhibitory concentrations of the drug were measured using an agar dilution technique. Forty six of 55 strains of Staphylococcus aureus were inhibited by 10-50 microg/ml of trifluoperazine. This drug also inhibited strains of Shigella spp., Vibrio cholerae and V. parahaemolyticus at a concentration of 10-100 microg/ml. Other bacteria including Pseudomonas spp. were moderately sensitive to trifluoperazine. In the in vivo studies this compound offered significant protection to Swiss albino mice at a concentration of 30 microg/mouse (P<0.001) when challenged with 50 median lethal dose of Salmonella typhimurium NCTC 74.
Induction of apoptosis by Phenothiazine derivatives in V79 cells.	Phenothiazine derivatives chlorpromazine (cpz) and trifluoperazine (tfp) were found to induce apoptosis, abnormal cell cycle and expression of p53 in Chinese hamster lung fibroblast V79 cells. Both the drugs can induce apoptosis when cells are treated with drug at a concentration of 10 microg/ml within 4 h, as detected by propidium iodide staining and DNA fragmentation analysis. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that the apoptotic response is mediated by a loss of G(1) population of cells. In Western blot analysis, p21 is induced and p53 is accompanied by additional bands. Also indirect immunolabeling of single cells revealed that p21 is accumulated from cytoplasm into nucleus after the drug treatment and the intensities of p53 increased. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that phenothiazine derivatives, in addition to their cytotoxic effects, could induce apoptosis, an observation that has important clinical implications.
Gliotoxin-mediated apoptosis of activated human hepatic stellate cells.	Activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) play a central role in liver fibrogenesis, and apoptosis of activated HSCs might be essential to clear HSCs from injured liver. Gliotoxin induces apoptosis of activated human and rat HSCs by an unknown mechanism.
Regulatory effect of regucalcin on nitric oxide synthase activity in rat kidney cortex cytosol: Role of endogenous regucalcin in transgenic rats.	The effect of regucalcin, a regulatory protein in Ca2+ signaling, on nitric oxid (NO) synthase activity in the cytosol of kidney cortex of rats was investigated. The presence of calcium chloride (10 micro M) in the enzyme reaction mixture caused a significant increase in NO synthase activity. This increase was significantly prevented by the addition of trifluoperazine (TFP; 20 or 50 micro M), an antagonist of calmodulin, supporting the existence of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent NO synthase in rat kidney cortex cytosol. NO synthase activity was significantly decreased by the addition of regucalcin (10(-10)-10(-8) M) in the reaction mixture in the absence or presence of calcium chloride (10 micro M). The regucalcin (10(-8) M) effect was not seen in the presence of Nw-nitro-L-argine metylester (NAME; 10(-6) or 10(-5) M), an inhibitor of NO synthase. Regucalcin significantly reduced NO synthase activity in the presence of TFP (50 micro micro M) or EGTA (1 mM) which has a significant inhibitory effect on the enzyme activity. The presence of anti-regucalcin monoclonal antibody (25 or 50 ng/ml) in the reaction mixture caused a significant increase in NO synthase activity. This increase was completely abolished by the addition of regucalcin (10(-7) M). NO synthase activity was not significantly changed in the kidney cortex cytosol of regucalcin transgenic rats overexpressing endogenous regucalcin as compared with that of wild-type rats. However, the effect of calcium chloride (10 micro M) in increasing NO synthase activity in the kidney cortex cytosol of wild-type rats was significantly weakened in regucalcin transgenic rats. The present study demonstrates that endogenous regucalcin has a suppressive effect on NO synthase activity in the kidney cortex cytosol of rats.
Suppressive effect of endogenous regucalcin on nitric oxide synthase activity in cloned rat hepatoma H4-II-E cells overexpressing regucalcin.	The role of endogenous regucalcin, which is a regulatory protein in calcium signaling, in the regulation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase activity in the cloned rat hepatoma H4-II-E cells was investigated. Hepatoma cells were cultured for 24-72 h in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS; 10%). NO synthase activity in the 5,500 g supernatant of cell homogenate was significantly increased by the addition of calcium chloride (10 microM) and calmodulin (2.5 microg/ml) in the enzyme reaction mixture. The presence of trifluoperazine (TFP; 50 microM), an antagonist of calmodulin, inhibited the effect of calcium (10 microM) addition in increasing NO synthase activity, indicating the existence of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent NO synthase in hepatoma cells. NO synthase activity was significantly decreased by the addition of regucalcin (10(-8) or 10(-7) M) in the reaction mixture without or with Ca(2+)/calmodulin addition. The effect of regucalcin (10(-7) M) in decreasing NO synthase activity was also seen in the presence of TFP (50 microM) or EGTA (1 mM). The presence of anti-regucalcin monoclonal antibody (10-50 ng/ml) in the reaction mixture caused a significant elevation of NO synthase activity. NO synthase activity was significantly suppressed in the hepatoma cells (transfectants) overexpressing regucalcin. This decrease was completely abolished in the presence of anti-regucalcin monoclonal antibody (50 ng/ml) in the reaction mixture. Moreover, the effect of Ca(2+)/calmodulin addition in increasing NO synthase activity in the hepatoma cells (wild-type) was completely prevented in transfectants. The present study demonstrates that endogenous regucalcin has a suppressive effect on NO synthase activity in the cloned rat hepatoma H4-II-E cells.
Calmodulin content and activity in normal and coeliac duodenum.	Calmodulin is an important modulator of intracellular calcium processes and may be implicated in the calcium malabsorption of coeliac disease. The calmodulin content in extracts of duodenal biopsy specimens from 48 normal control subjects and 28 patients with coeliac disease was determined. Radioimmunoassay was used to measure immunoreactive calmodulin while a cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity assay was used to measure biologically active calmodulin. Calmodulin values measured by both assays were similar for control and disease groups. Mean (SEM) immunoreactive calmodulin values were 1.68 (0.09) micrograms/mg protein for controls and 1.67 (0.15) and 1.45 (0.15) micrograms/mg protein for partial and total villous atrophy respectively. These values were not significantly different. Biologically active calmodulin values were 2.77 (0.21), 1.82 (0.34), and 3.24 (0.33) micrograms/mg protein for control, partial, and total villous atrophy subjects respectively. The biologically active calmodulin values in the partial villous atrophy group were significantly lower than in controls and total villous atrophy subjects. In the phosphodiesterase assay, the calmodulin antagonist trifluoperazine inhibited the activity stimulated by purified calmodulin and by the extracts to the same extent. These results show that calmodulin values are normal in coeliac disease and provide no evidence that changes in calmodulin account for the abnormal calcium absorption in these patients.
Biphasic effect of calcium on luteinizing hormone-stimulated cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate production in granulosa cells of the fowl (Gallus domesticus).	Both cAMP and Ca2+ play important roles in the steroidogenic action of LH in hen granulosa cells. However, the interaction of these intracellular messengers is not fully understood. In the present study we used two calcium ionophores (ionomycin and A23187), as well as trifluoperazine (TFP), an inhibitor of calmodulin, to investigate LH- and forskolin-induced cAMP production in granulosa cells isolated from the largest (F1) preovulatory follicle of White Leghorn laying hens. Between 0.1 and 1.0 microM, both ionophores significantly potentiated cAMP responses to LH in the presence of 0.1 mM extracellular Ca2+. When calcium was omitted from the medium, ionophores had no effect. When either calcium was raised above 1 mM, or the concentration of ionophores was increased above 1 microM, LH-induced cAMP production was drastically inhibited. In the presence of 0.5-2.0 mM calcium, A23187 inhibited forskolin-promoted cAMP synthesis. TFP, while having no effect on basal cAMP, suppressed LH-induced responses and the potentiating effect of ionomycin. It is concluded that for full activation of the adenylate cyclase/cAMP system by LH, Ca-calmodulin is required at a site upstream from the catalytic component of the enzyme. However, high intracellular Ca2+ and/or other effects of ionophores (such as uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation) inhibit LH-induced cAMP production.
Oxidative stress underlies the mechanism for Ca(2+)-induced permeability transition of mitochondria.	Recent studies demonstrated that the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) was enhanced prior to the onset of mitochondrial membrane permeability transition (MPT), a critical step for the induction of DNA fragmentation and apoptosis. Although Ca2+ induces typical MPT that involves depolarization and swelling of mitochondria and finally releases cytochrome c into cytosol, the mechanism by which ROS induce MPT remains unclear. In the presence of inorganic phosphate, Ca2+ increased the oxygen consumption and ROS production by isolated mitochondria as determined by a chemiluminescence (CHL) method using L-012. Ca2+ increased the generation of H2O2 by some mechanism that was inhibited by cyclosporin A but not by superoxide dismutase (SOD) and trifluoperazine. Ca2+ decreased the content of free thiols in adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) in mitochondrial membranes with concomitant increase in ROS generation. The presence of cyclosporin A, trifluoperazine, or SOD inhibited the Ca(2+)-induced increase of L-012 CHL and decrease in the free thiols of ANT. These results indicate that Ca2+ increases the generation of ROS which oxidize the free thiol groups in mitochondrial ANT, thereby inducing MPT to release cytochrome c.
Atypical protein-kinase Czeta, but neither conventional Ca2+ -dependent protein-kinase C isoenzymes nor Ca2+ -calmodulin, participates in regulation of telomerase activity in Burkitt's lymphoma cells.	To clarify the role of the pathways dependent on protein-kinase C (PK-C) and Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM) in the regulation of telomerase activity in Burkitt's lymphoma cells.
Role of zinc in regulation of protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells: zinc modulation of insulin-like growth factor-I's effect.	Zinc, an essential trace element, has been demonstrated to stimulate bone growth in animal and human. The cellular mechanism by which zinc stimulates bone growth has not been fully clarified. The effect of hormone and zinc on protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells was investigated. Cells were cultured for 72 h in medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) to obtain subconfluent monolayers, and then exchanged to culture medium containing either vehicle, zinc sulfate or various hormones in the absence of 10% FBS. After medium change, cells were cultured for 48 h. Protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in the lysate of cells was significantly increased by culture with zinc (10(-6) - 10(-4) M). The effect of zinc in increasing the enzyme activity was completely blocked by culture with cycloheximide (10(-7 )M), an inhibitor of protein synthesis, or 5, 6-dichloro-l-beta-D- riboifuranosylbenzimidarzole (DRB) (10(-6) M), an inhibitor of translational activity. Addition of calcium chloride (10 microM) into the reaction mixture caused a significant increase in protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; this increase was completely blocked in the presence of trifluoperazine (50 microM), an antagonist of calmodulin. Culture with zinc caused a significant increase in Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in osteoblastic cells. Protein tyrosine phosphatase activity was significantly raised by culture with parathyroid hormone (human PTH [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]; 10(-7) M), 17beta-estradiol (10(-7) M), insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I; 10(-8) M) or insulin (10(-8) M). The enzyme activity was not significantly enhanced by the addition of calcium (10 microM) into the reaction mixture. The effect of PTH or IGF-I in increasing protein tyrosine phosphatase activity was completely blocked by culture with DRB. The IGF-I-induced increase in enzyme activity was significantly enhanced by culture with zinc. Such an effect was not seen in the case of PTH. Moreover, the effect of IGF-I in increasing proliferation of osteoblastic cells was significantly enhanced by culture with zinc. The effect of PTH was not enhanced by zinc. This study demonstrates that protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in osteoblastic cells is enhanced by various bone anabolic factors, and that zinc modulates the effect of IGF-I on protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and cell proliferation.
Allosteric modulation of GABA(B) receptor function in human frontal cortex.	In the present study, the effects of different allosteric modulators on the functional activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B receptors in membranes of post-mortem human frontal cortex were examined. Western blot analysis indicated that the tissue preparations expressed both GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits of the GABA(B) receptor heterodimer. In [35S]-GTPgammaS binding assays, Ca2+ ion (1 mM) enhanced the potency of the agonists GABA and 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid (3-APA) and that of the antagonist CGP55845, but not that of the GABA(B) receptor agonist (-)-baclofen. CGP7930 (2,6-di-t-Bu-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol), a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(B) receptors, potentiated both GABA(B) receptor-mediated stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding and inhibition of forskolin (FSK)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. Chelation of Ca2+ ion by EGTA reduced the CGP7930 enhancement of GABA potency in stimulating [35S]-GTPgammaS binding by two-fold. Fendiline, also reported to act as a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(B) receptors, failed to enhance GABA stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding but inhibited the potentiating effect of CGP7930. The inhibitory effect was mimicked by the phenothiazine antipsychotic trifluoperazine (TFP), but not by other compounds, such as verapamil or diphenydramine (DPN). These data demonstrate that the function of GABA(B) receptors of human frontal cortex is positively modulated by Ca2+ ion and CGP7930, which interact synergistically. Conversely, fendiline and trifluoperazine negatively affect the allosteric regulation by CGP7930.
Inhibition of MPP+-induced mitochondrial damage and cell death by trifluoperazine and W-7 in PC12 cells.	Opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore has been recognized to be involved in cell death. The present study investigated the effect of trifluoperazine and W-7 on the MPP+-induced mitochondrial damage and cell death in undifferentiated PC12 cells. Calmodulin antagonists (trifluoperazine, W-7 and calmidazolium) at 0.5-1 microM significantly reduced the loss of cell viability in PC12 cells treated with 500 microM MPP+. Trifluoperazine and W-7 (0.5-1 microM) inhibited the nuclear damage, the loss of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential followed by cytochrome c release, and the elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels due to MPP+ in PC12 cells and attenuated the formation of reactive oxygen species and the depletion of GSH. Calmodulin antagonists at 5-10 microM exhibited a cytotoxic effect on PC12 cells, and compounds at 10 microM did not attenuate cytotoxicity of MPP+. Calmodulin antagonists (0.5-1 microM) significantly reduced rotenone-induced mitochondrial damage and cell death, whereas they did not attenuate cell death and elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels due to H2O2 or ionomycin. The results show that trifluoperazine and W-7 exhibit a differential inhibitory effect against cytotoxicity of MPP+ depending on concentration. Both compounds at the concentrations less than 5 microM may attenuate the MPP+-induced viability loss in PC12 cells by suppressing change in the mitochondrial membrane permeability and by lowering the intracellular Ca2+ levels.
Calcium antagonists in sodium lactobionate sucrose solution for rat liver preservation.	The effects of the calcium antagonists, chlorpromazine (CPZ), nisoldipine (NIS), trifluoperazine (TFP), and nicardipine (NIC) were compared in rat livers following either 20- or 30-hr ice storage in sodium lactobionate sucrose solution (SLS). Survivals beyond 7 days after orthotopic liver transplantation following 20-hr cold storage were 1/14 in the University of Wisconsin solution, 4/14 in SLS, 4/8 in UW+CPZ, 7/8 in SLS+CPZ. Survivals beyond 7 days after OLT following 30-hr cold storage were 3/8 in SLS+CPZ, 3/8 in SLS+NIS, 2/8 in SLS+TFP, 0/8 in SLS+NIC, and 0/8 in SLS alone. Survival rates were significantly (P less than 0.05) better in both SLS+CPZ and SLS+NIS than in UW and SLS alone. The effluent lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels and pH changes were measured at the time of OLT. After 20 hr, LDH levels were 525 +/- 78 IU/L (mean +/- SEM) in UW, 492 +/- 44 in SLS, 322 +/- 35 in UW+CPZ, and 290 +/- 39 in SLS+CPZ. After 30 hr, LDH values were 416 +/- 40 in SLS+CPZ, 450 +/- 25 in SLS+NIS, 448 +/- 21 in SLS+TFP, 573 +/- 18 in SLS+NIC, and 614 +/- 68 in SLS. The LDH levels for SLS+CPZ and SLS+NIS were significantly lower than those of SLS and UW (P less than 0.01). The pH changes in the effluent were significantly less in both the CPZ and NIS groups (P less than 0.01). This study demonstrated improved liver preservation by the use of a simplified colloid-free lactobionate solution containing sodium as the principal cation. The addition of CPZ or NIS to the solution demonstrated the same potency for significant improvement in efficacy of this solution, while NIC was ineffective.
Effects of calmodulin antagonists on calcium transport by chorioallantoic membranes of developing chicken embryos.	Sections of chorioallantoic membranes (CAM) from developing chicken embryos were incubated in the presence of calmidazolium (CMZ) or trifluoperazine (TFP). Both the forward (ectodermal to endodermal) and backward flux rates of calcium were higher in the presence of drug. However, the effect was greater in the forward direction and the agents produced a statistically significant increase in ectodermal to endodermal calcium transport. The initial rate of uptake of calcium into CAM sections was increased by TFP, and the efflux of calcium from preloaded sections was increased in the presence of TFP and CMZ.
Thrombin-stimulated phosphorylation of myosin light chain and its possible involvement in endothelin-1 secretion from porcine aortic endothelial cells.	Thrombin-stimulated secretion of endothelin-1 (ET-1) from porcine aortic endothelial cells was inhibited in the presence of 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid 8-(diethylamino)octyl ester (TMB-8), trifluoperazine and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7). 1-(5-Chloronaphthalene-1-sulfonyl)-1H-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine (ML-9) also prevented the thrombin-stimulated secretion of ET-1 but it enhanced the accumulation of ET-1 in the endothelial cells. When the endothelial cells were treated with thrombin, the phosphorylation of a 20-kDa protein which was identified as myosin light chain (MLC) was detected. Phosphorylation was augmented in a time-dependent manner. As in the case of ET-1 secretion, MLC phosphorylation was prevented by TMB-8, trifluoperazine, W-7 and ML-9 at the same concentrations which were effective in inhibiting the ET-1 secretion. The site of phosphorylation of MLC was identified as a serine residue. Parallel to the phosphorylation of MLC, thrombin increased the amounts of the 43- and 200-kDa proteins in the Triton-insoluble fraction; these proteins were identified as actin and myosin heavy chain, respectively. These results suggest that the MLC phosphorylation elicited by MLC kinase may facilitate the formation of filamentous myosin and actin which are probably involved in ET-1 secretion, possibly in the transport of ET-1-containing vesicles in thrombin-stimulated endothelial cells.
Involvement of Ras/extracellular signal-regulated kinase, but not Akt pathway in risedronate-induced apoptosis of U937 cells and its suppression by cytochalasin B.	Although risedronate, a nitrogen containing bisphosphonate (BPs), strongly inhibits bone resorption by enhanced apoptosis of osteoclasts, its mechanism remained unclear. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanism of risedronate-induced apoptosis of U937 cells, with a focus on extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2) and protein kinase B (Akt) pathways, mitochondria-mediated apoptosis, and the effect of disruption of the actin cytoskeleton. Risedronate facilitated the relocation of Ras from membrane to cytosol through inhibited isoprenylation. Accordingly, risedronate suppressed the phosphorylation of ERK 1/2, a downstream survival signaling kinase of Ras, affected the intracellular distribution of Bcl-xL, and induced the mitochondrial membrane depolarization, cytochrome c release, activated caspase cascade and DNA fragmentation. The risedronate-induced apoptosis was effectively suppressed with cyclosporine A plus trifluoperazine, potent inhibitors of mitochondrial membrane permeability transition (MPT). The risedronate-induced apoptosis was independent of Akt, another cAMP-dependent survival signaling kinase. Risedronate facilitated dephosphorylation of Bad at Ser112, an ERK phosphorylation site, but not at Ser136, an Akt phosphorylation site. All of these apoptosis-related changes induced by risedronate were strongly suppressed by cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin filament polymerization. These results indicate that risedronate-induced apoptosis in U937 cells involves Ras/ERK, but not Akt signaling pathway, and is dependent on MPT, and that disruption of the actin cytoskeleton inhibits the risedronate-induced apoptosis at its early step.
Calmodulin regulates DNA polymerase alpha activity during proliferative activation of NRK cells.	When Normal Rat Kidney cells are allowed to reenter the cell cycle after quiescence they start to replicate DNA around 12 h, reaching a maximum at 20 h. Activation of DNA polymerase alpha parallels the increase in DNA synthesis. The addition of two different anti-calmodulin drugs, trifluoroperazine (7.5 microM) or W13 (10 micrograms/ml), to the media at 4 h after proliferative activation, inhibits DNA synthesis by 55% and 80%, respectively. The blockade of calmodulin produced by trifluoroperazine allows the cells to progress through G1 phase but stops progression through S phase as determined by 5-Bromo deoxyuridine labeling. Both anti-calmodulin drugs also inhibit by more than 50% the increase in DNA polymerase alpha activity observed at 20 h. These results indicate that a calmodulin-dependent event, essential for the activation of DNA polymerase alpha and subsequently for DNA replication, is produced during G1. Therefore, the control of DNA polymerase alpha activation is one of the ways by which calmodulin is regulating the progression of NRK cells through S phase.
Involvement of calmodulin- and protein kinase C-related mechanism in an induction process of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation-related enzymes by hypolipidemic peroxisome proliferators.	Trifluoperazine, a calmodulin antagonist, suppressed the clofibric acid-evoked induction of the peroxisomal cyanide-insensitive fatty acyl-CoA oxidizing system and carnitine acetyltransferase in rat liver and also in cultured rat hepatocytes. H-7, a potent inhibitor of protein kinase C, also suppressed the induction of these enzymes by clofibric acid, bezafibrate, Wyl4,643 or mono(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate in cultured rat hepatocytes. This suppressive effect was also confirmed by the protein composition of hepatocytes treated with clofibric acid and these antagonists, where the increase in the amount of peroxisomal bifunctional enzyme by peroxisome proliferator was markedly suppressed by above two antagonists. Profile of the time-dependent changes in the activities of the two enzymes after clofibric acid treatment showed that there might be two phases in the induction process. The initial phase (0-3 days after the treatment) showed a relative low inducing rate and subsequent phase (3-5 days after the treatment) showed an abrupt induction. The suppressive effect of the above two antagonists was significant in the later phase. In a time course study of the induction process of peroxisomal catalase, bifunctional enzyme or 69 kDa integral membrane protein using immunochemical detection, the induction of the membrane protein by clofibric acid was delayed compared with that of the bifunctional enzyme, where the induction was inhibited almost completely by nicardipine. These experimental results suggest that calmodulin- and protein kinase C-dependent processes play an important role in the process of marked induction of peroxisomal enzymes and membrane protein by drugs in rat liver.
Effects of methylflavonolamine hydrochloride on contractility of isolated rabbit ileum]	Methylflavonolamine hydrochloride (MFA), verapamil (Ver), and trifluoperazine (Tri) inhibited the contractions induced by submaximal concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) and serotonin (5-HT). IC50 values (mumol.L-1) were 33.2 +/- 0.7, 0.276 +/- 0.018, 3.83 +/- 0.23, and 15.31 +/- 0.10, 0.233 +/- 0.017, 2.33 +/- 0.20, respectively. MFA, Ver, and Tri inhibited the contractions induced by CaCl2 and pD'2 values were 4.3 +/- 0.3, 6.23 +/- 0.22, 4.99 +/- 0.24, respectively. MFA 3 mumol.L-1, Ver 0.03 mumol.L-1, and Tri 3 mumol.L-1 inhibited the contractions induced by ACh in Ca(2+)-free medium, while MFA 60 mumol.L-1, Tri 30 mumol.L-1, but not Ver 0.6 mumol.L-1, had pronounced inhibitions on extracellular calcium-dependent contractions induced by ACh. These results suggest that MFA has a calcium antagonistic effect and that MFA is similar to Tri, but not Ver, in mechanism.
Penetration of cells by herpes simplex virus does not require a low pH-dependent endocytic pathway.	Agents that perturb endocytosis or that alter the pH of endosomes were shown to have little or no effect on plaque formation by herpes simplex virus (HSV), whereas plaque formation by vesicular stomatitis virus was inhibited as expected. A number of agents were tested for their ability to inhibit early events in HSV infection. Amantadine, chloroquine and trifluoperazine, whose actions are known to alter the endocytic pathway, showed no selective inhibitory effects on early events in HSV infection. Wheat germ agglutinin and heparin, known inhibitors of HSV infection, blocked the adsorption of virus to cells, as expected. Succinylated concanavalin A blocked plaque formation without inhibiting virus adsorption but could enhance the elution of bound virus. To a greater or lesser extent, succinylated concanavalin A, dithiothreitol, colchicine, monensin and cytochalasin B all inhibited or reduced the rate of events subsequent to adsorption and prior to early viral protein synthesis. Evidence is presented to suggest that each of these agents has a different mode of action. On the basis of these results and others, we conclude that endocytosis is probably not required for infection by HSV (at least not the low pH-dependent endocytic pathway) and that events occurring at the cell surface trigger virion-cell fusion leading to infection.
Effects of phosphatase inhibitors and a protein phosphatase on norepinephrine secretion by permeabilized bovine chromaffin cells.	A protein phosphatase and phosphatase inhibitors were used to examine the role of protein phosphorylation in the regulation of norepinephrine secretion in digitonin-permeabilized bovine chromaffin cells. Addition of okadaic acid, a potent inhibitor of type 1 and type 2A protein phosphatases, or 1-naphthylphosphate, a more general phosphatase inhibitor, to digitonin-permeabilized chromaffin cells caused about a 100% increase in the amount of norepinephrine secreted in the absence of Ca2+ (in 5 mM EGTA) without affecting the amount of norepinephrine secreted in the presence of 10 microM free Ca2+. This stimulation of norepinephrine secretion by protein phosphatase inhibitors suggests that in the absence of Ca2+ there is a slow rate phosphorylation and that this phosphorylation triggers secretion. Addition of an exogenous type 2A protein phosphatase caused almost a 50% decrease in Ca(2+)-dependent norepinephrine secretion. Thus, the amounts of norepinephrine released both in the absence of Ca2+ and in the presence of Ca2+ appear to depend upon the level of protein phosphorylation.
Activation of bovine rod outer segment phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate phospholipase C by calmodulin antagonists does not depend on calmodulin.	Calmodulin antagonists stimulated phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate phospholipase C in soluble and particulate fractions of bovine rod outer segments. Antagonists tested include trifluoperazine, melittin, calmidazolium, compound 48/80, W-13 [N-(4-aminobutyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide], and W-7 [N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide]. All were effective, but W-7 was chosen for further characterization of the effect, which was most pronounced in the soluble fraction. Phospholipase C activity in the soluble fraction did not increase linearly with the quality of enzyme assayed, suggesting the presence of an endogenous inhibitor or an inhibitory self-association of the enzyme. W-7 appeared to counteract this inhibition, resulting in a linear activity-quantity relationship. Stimulation by W-7 was therefore largest when large amounts of crude enzyme were assayed and small or nil when small amounts were assayed. The effect of W-7 was also dependent on [Ca2+], with half-maximal stimulation occurring between 0.1 and 1 microM. W-7 and W-13 were much more effective than their nonchlorinated analogues W-5 and W-12 at increasing phospholipase C activity. While this pattern of effectiveness is typical of calmodulin-mediated processes, the absence of any effect by added calmodulin and the retention of W-7 sensitivity by purified CaM-free enzyme argue against regulation by CaM. Octyl glucoside, a nonionic detergent, mimicked some of the effects of CaM antagonists, suggesting that the antagonists act by interfering with protein-protein interactions. It appears likely that CaM antagonists prevent an inhibitory multimerization or aggregation of at least one form of ROS phospholipase C.
Agents which reverse multidrug-resistance are inhibitors of [3H]vinblastine transport by isolated vesicles.	Resistance of human cancer cells to multiple cytotoxic hydrophobic agents (multidrug resistance) is due to overexpression of the MDR1 gene whose product is the ATP-dependent multidrug transporter, P-glycoprotein. We have previously reported that plasma membrane vesicles partially purified from multidrug-resistant human KB carcinoma cells, but not from drug-sensitive cells, accumulated [3H]vinblastine in an ATP-dependent manner (Horio, M., Gottesman, M.M. and Pastan, I. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85, 3580-3584). Certain calcium-channel blockers, quinidine, and phenothiazines are able to overcome multidrug resistance in cultured cells. In this work, the effect of these reversing agents on ATP-dependent vinblastine (VBL) transport by vesicles from drug-resistant KB cells has been characterized. Azidopine was the most potent inhibitor of ATP-dependent VBL uptake tested (ID50: concentration of inhibitor such that the transport of vinblastine is inhibited by 50%, less than 1 microM). Verapamil, quinidine, and the tiapamil analogue RO-11-2933 were potent but less effective inhibitors (ID50 less than 5 microM). Diltiazem, nifedipine and trifluoperazine were even less effective. These agents had no effect on Na(+)-dependent and Na(+)-independent L-leucine uptake by the vesicles, indicating that the inhibition of ATP dependent VBL transport by these agents is not a non-specific effect, as might result from leaks in the vesicle membrane. Verapamil, quinidine, azidopine and trifluoperazine increased the apparent Km value of vinblastine transport, suggesting that these agents may be competitive inhibitors of vinblastine transport.
Effect of the calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine on phosphorylation of P-glycoprotein and topoisomerase II: relationship to modulation of subcellular distribution, DNA damage and cytotoxicity of doxorubicin in multidrug resistant L1210 mouse leukemia cells.	The results from the present study using the sensitive and progressively DOX resistant L1210 model system demonstrated that the effects of TFP are not due to redistribution of DOX to the nucleus, and modulation of cytotoxicity is related to effects on DOX-induced DNA strand breaks. Although TFP affects phosphorylation of PGP and TOPO II (R2 greater than R1), the comparable DNA strand breaks at lower DOX levels with TFP in the resistant sublines suggest that modulation of TOPO II function related to drug-induced DNA damage by calmodulin-mediated events may be an important mode of action.
Tyrosine hydroxylase activity in two-dimensional monomolecular films]	The activity of a neurospecific enzyme of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in monomolecular films formed onto solid surface was studied. The data obtained show that the formation of two-dimensional films onto negative-charge surfaces by the Langmuir-Schafer technology does not lead to the inactivation of the enzyme. Neuroleptic trifluoperazine increased the activity of TH. Monomolecular films of TH may be used as a sensitive element of biosensors for primary monitoring of neuroleptic-like compounds.
Muscarinic cholinoceptor activation modulates DNA synthesis and CD40 expression in fibroblast cells.	1 The aim of the present work was to examine the role of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) on DNA synthesis and CD40 expression in human fibroblast cells. Neonatal human skin fibroblast cultures were stimulated with carbachol in presence or absence of specific antagonists and the following parameters were measured: identification of mAChR subtypes, DNA synthesis, inositol phosphates (InsP) production and CD40 expression. 2 Human fibroblasts express mAChR with Kd 0.47 +/- 0.11 nm and Bmax 236 +/- 22 fmol mg protein(-1). Carbachol stimulates DNA synthesis, InsP and the expression of CD40. All these effects were inhibited by atropine, mustard hydrochloride (4-DAMP) and pirenzepine but not by AF-DX 116 and tropicamide, indicating that M3 and M1 mAChR are implicated in carbachol action. The relative Ki of the antagonists obtained by competition binding assay was in parallel to the relative potency for blocking both carbachol-stimulated InsP accumulation and DNA synthesis. 3 The intracellular pathway leading to carbachol-induced biological effects involved phospholipase C and calcium/calmodulin, as U-73122 and trifluoroperazine blocked carbachol effects, respectively. Calphostin C, a protein kinase C inhibitor, had no effect, indicating that this enzyme does not participate in the system. 4 These results may contribute to a better understanding of the modulatory role of the parasympathetic muscarinic system on normal human fibroblast function.
Morphometric and biochemical changes in lungs of growing rats treated with a calmodulin antagonist.	To determine the role of calmodulin in postnatal lung growth and development, 4-week-old rats were injected intraperitoneally on consecutive days with trifluoperazine (TFP), a potent and specific calmodulin antagonist, for a period fo 3 weeks and studied in comparison with normal controls and undernourished weight-matched animals. TFP treatment resulted in stunting of lung growth such that observed normal increments in morphometrically determined total number of alveoli and alveolar surface area and in biochemically determined DNA, elastin, and collagen contents of the lungs were diminished in comparison with age-matched normal controls. However, the TFP treatment also resulted in reduced daily food intake and body weight gain. In the TFP group, lung weight and lung volume were also reduced compared with the weight-matched control group. This resulted in reduced alveolar surface area, total number of alveoli, DNA, collagen, and elastin in the TFP group compared with values in the weight-matched controls. Thus the TFP-induced lung changes were not due to inanition and/or reduced somatic growth. The TFP treatment resulted in reduced activities of calmodulin and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-phosphodiesterase in the lungs of the animals, independent of their nutritional status. Based on these findings, we suggest that calmodulin may be an important regulatory component of postnatal lung growth and development.
Fast efflux of Ca2+ mediated by the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2(+)-ATPase.	The Ca2(+)-ATPase found in the light fraction of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles can be phosphorylated by Pi, forming an acylphosphate residue at the catalytic site of the enzyme. This reaction was inhibited by the phenothiazines trifluoperazine, chlorpromazine, imipramine, and fluphenazine and by the beta-adrenergic blocking agents propranolol and alprenolol. The inhibition was reversed by raising either the Pi or the Mg2+ concentration in the medium and was not affected by the presence of K+. Phosphorylation of the Ca2(+)-ATPase by Pi was also inhibited by ruthenium red and spermidine. These compounds compete with Mg2+, but, unlike the phenothiazines, they did not compete with Pi at the catalytic site, and the inhibition was abolished when K+ was included in the assay medium. The efflux of Ca2+ from loaded vesicles was greatly increased by the phenothiazines and by propranolol and alprenolol. In the presence of 200 microM trifluoperazine, the rate of Ca2+ efflux was higher than 3 mumol of Ca2+/mg of protein/10 s. The activation of efflux by these drugs was antagonized by Pi, Mg2+, K+, Ca2+, ADP, dimethyl sulfoxide, ruthenium red, and spermidine. The increase of Ca2+ efflux caused by trifluoperazine was not correlated with binding of the drug to the membrane lipids. It is concluded that the Ca2+ pump can be uncoupled by different drugs, thereby greatly increasing the efflux of Ca2+ through the ATPase. Displacement of these drugs by the natural ligands of the ATPase blocks the efflux through the uncoupled pathway and limits it to a much smaller rate. Thus, the Ca2(+)-ATPase can operate either as a pump (coupled) or as a Ca2+ channel (uncoupled).
The stimulatory effect of estradiol 17-beta on prolactin mRNA is inhibited by anti-calmodulin drugs.	The stimulatory action of estrogens on prolactin (PRL) secretion and synthesis is well known; on the other hand, anti-calmodulin drugs have recently been shown to inhibit prolactin in vitro release induced by estrogens. Based on these data, we decided to evaluate the in vivo effect of anti-calmodulin drugs (trifluoperazine and W7) on basal and estradiol-17 beta stimulated levels of PRL mRNA in anterior pituitary lobes obtained from adult male rats. Total RNA was isolated from pooled pituitaries recovered from animals under the same treatment and, from it, hybridizable PRL mRNA was detected. Estradiol-17 beta consistently stimulated PRL mRNA levels by 3-4 fold. The utilization of either trifluoperazine or W7, invariably inhibited estradiol-17 beta stimulated PRL mRNA. Metoclopramide, a drug with antidopaminergic activity, potentiated the stimulatory effect of estradiol-17 beta on PRL mRNA levels. These results suggest that anti-calmodulin drugs have an in vivo antiestrogenic effect on PRL mRNA levels confirming previous in vitro studies. Although, it is difficult to be conclusive about the mechanism through which these drugs act, one possibility is that the calcium-calmodulin system may be involved.
Okadaic acid and trifluoperazine enhance Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in eastern white pine.	Mature zygotic embryos of recalcitrant Christmas tree species eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) were used as explants for Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101-mediated transformation using the uidA (beta-Glucuronidase) gene as a reporter. Influence of the time of sonication and the concentrations of protein phosphatase inhibitor (okadaic acid) and kinase inhibitor (trifluoperazine) on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation have been evaluated. A high transformation frequency was obtained after embryos were sonicated for 45-50 s, or treated with 1.5-2.0 microM okadaic acid or treated with 100-200 microM trifluoperazine, respectively. Protein phosphatase and kinase inhibitors enhance Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in eastern white pine. A 2-3.5-fold higher rate of hygromycin-resistant callus was obtained with an addition of 2 microM okadaic acid or 150 microM trifluoperazine or sonicated embryos for 45 s. Stable integration of the uidA gene in the plant genome of eastern white pine was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern and northern blot analyses. These results demonstrated that a stable and enhanced transformation system has been established in eastern white pine and this system would provide an opportunity to transfer economically important genes into this Christmas tree species.
Effects of the myotoxic Lys49 phospholipase A2 from Agkistrodon contortrix laticinctus snake venom on water transport in the toad bladder epithelium: evidence for a role of microtubules and calmodulin.	ACLMT is a myotoxic Lys49 phospholipase A2 isolated from the venom of the snake Agkistrodon contortrix laticinctus. We have previously demonstrated that ACLMT affects the water transport in toad bladders through a mechanism partially mediated by an increase in the cytosolic calcium. This study aims to further investigate the sites and mechanisms involved in the effects of ACLMT on water transport in toad bladders by examining the role of microtubules and calmodulin. Water flow across the membrane was gravimetrically measured in bladder sac preparations. ACLMT increased basal water transport and inhibited water transport stimulated by vasopressin. Colchicine and trifluoperazine reduced the effect of the toxin on basal water transport and enhanced it on vasopressin-stimulated water transport. The results suggest that both microtubules and calmodulin may be involved in the effect of ACLMT on basal water transport. On the other hand, the effect of the toxin on vasopressin-stimulated water transport appears to be neither dependent on the microtubules integrity nor directly mediated by calmodulin. This study provides a deeper understanding of the effects of the Lys49 PLA2 myotoxins on membrane permeability, thus contributing to elucidate the toxicity mechanism of these myotoxins on biological tissues.
Mechanisms involved in the regulation of mRNA for M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and endothelial and neuronal NO synthases in rat atria.	Agonists of the M(2) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) increase mRNA for this receptor and mRNA for endothelial and neuronal isoforms of NO synthase (eNOS or nNOS). Here we examine the different signalling pathways involved in such events in rat cardiac atria.
Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport is stimulated by a Ca(++)-calmodulin-mediated pathway in BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts.	In the present study, we investigated the role of intracellular Ca++ in the stimulation of the Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport in synchronized BALB/c 3T3 cells. The Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport was stimulated by the growth factors EGF, TGF-alpha, IGF-1, and IGF-2, which do not activate protein kinase C, but do induce a transient increase in free cytoplasmic Ca++. In addition, direct activation of protein kinase C by the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) did not affect the Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport activity of quiescent cells. The Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport was also stimulated by the above mitogens in cells pretreated with the phorbol ester TPA. This treatment led to a progressive decline in the activity of cellular protein kinase C. This result implies that cells deficient in protein kinase C may still support stimulation of the Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport. Taken as a whole, these findings suggest that the Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport is stimulated predominantly by a protein kinase C-independent mechanism in BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts. Both the intracellular Ca++ antagonist 8-(N,N-diethylamino)octyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate (TMB-8) and two potent calmodulin antagonists, trifluoperazine (TFP) and chloropromazine (CP), blocked serum- and mitogen-stimulated Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport. These results suggest that the Na+/K+/Cl- cotransport is stimulated by an increase of intracellular Ca++ and subsequently by a Ca(++)-calmodulin-mediated pathway in the synchronized BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts.
Effect of tacrine on cytosolic Ca2+ level and calmodulin in gastric muscle tissues of rat.	Tacrine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. It has an indirect cholinomimetic effect inducing contractions of the gastric smooth muscles. The contractions are related to the effect of the accumulated acetylcholine in tissues on the respective choline receptors. There is a well defined direct correlation between tacrine concentrations and the inhibition of cholinesterase activity. That suggest simultaneous increase of the strength of tacrine-induced contractions. Instead, at concentrations above 1 x 10(-5) mol/l, tacrine causes permanent relaxation with yet unknown causing mechanism.
Regulation of IgE receptor-mediated secretion from RBL-2H3 mast cells by GTP binding-proteins and calcium.	In RBL-2H3 rat basophilic leukemia cells, cholera toxin does not per se stimulate secretion but it enhances secretion stimulated by antigens that crosslink IgE receptors, by the Ca2+ ionophore, ionomycin, and by thapsigargin, a tumor promoter that releases cytoplasmic Ca2+ stores. Calmodulin inhibitors reduce both the basal and cholera toxin-enhanced secretory responses to antigen and Ca2(+)-mobilizing agents. These synergistic effects suggest that the activation of a Gs-like GTP-binding protein, together with a (probably calmodulin-dependent) event activated by an increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels, may jointly provide a sufficient signal for secretion. Antigen-stimulated secretion is inhibited by depleting cells of GTP with mycophenolic acid but is maximal in cells treated with mycophenolic acid plus cholera toxin. The simplest explanation is that cholera toxin selectively reactivates the Gs-coupled pathway leading to secretion in GTP-depleted cells without restoring the activity of a separate GTP-binding protein(s) that constrains antigen-stimulated secretion.
Calmodulin-dependent collagenase and proteoglycanase activities in chondrocytes from human osteoarthritic cartilage.	Chondrocyte metalloproteinases appear to play a major role in the development of osteoarthritis. The intracellular post-traductional mechanisms regulating collagenase and proteoglycanase are not known. Calmodulin antagonists including phenothiazine and sulfonamide derivatives significantly increased proteoglycanase activity and decreased collagenase activity. H-7, a specific inhibitor of protein kinase C, had no effect on the two metalloproteinase activities, and calmodulin was ineffective in in vitro assays upon metalloproteinase activities. We postulate that collagenase and proteoglycanase activities are controlled by calmodulin-dependent regulation.
Evidence for a role of calmodulin in regulation of pinealocyte cyclic nucleotides.	In rat pinealocytes, norepinephrine (NE) increases cAMP and cGMP accumulation through a synergistic dual receptor mechanism involving alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptors. The available evidence indicates that both increases in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i, and activation of protein kinase C are involved in the alpha 1-adrenergic potentiation of beta-adrenergically stimulated cAMP and cGMP responses. In this study, the role of Ca2+ was further investigated using three agents with known anti-calmodulin activities: trifluoperazine, pimozide and W7. It was found that none of these inhibitors had any effects on the isoproterenol (ISO)-stimulated cAMP and cGMP responses. By contrast, all three Ca2+/calmodulin inhibitors reduced the NE-stimulated cAMP and cGMP responses. These results suggested that an alpha 1-adrenergic mediated mechanism was likely sensitive to the inhibitory action of the Ca2+/calmodulin inhibitors. To determine the possible site of action of the inhibitors, an activator of protein kinase C, 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), was used to potentiate the ISO-stimulated cAMP response. The PMA potentiation of ISO-stimulated cAMP response was only inhibited by a high concentration of pimozide, and not by trifluoperazine or W7, suggesting that pimozide may have other actions distinct from those of trifluoperazine or W7. Full potentiation of the cGMP response can be achieved by adding both PMA and a depolarizing concentration of K+. All three calmodulin antagonists were effective in inhibiting the PMA and K+ potentiation of cGMP responses in ISO-stimulated cells. These three compounds were also effective in inhibiting the potentiating effects of [Ca2+]i elevating agents on the beta-adrenergically stimulated cAMP and cGMP responses. The three inhibitors, at the concentrations used in the present study, were found to have no effect on the protein kinase C activity determined in vitro. These results indicated that apart from the protein kinase C pathway, the Ca2+/calmodulin pathway of signal transduction may be of importance in the regulation of pinealocyte cGMP and, to a lesser degree, cAMP responses.
A novel calmodulin antagonist, CGS 9343B, modulates calcium-dependent changes in neurite outgrowth and growth cone movements.	The neurotransmitter 5-HT alters growth cone motility and neurite elongation in neuron B19, isolated from the buccal ganglion of Helisoma trivolvis (Haydon et al., 1984). The effects of 5-HT are mediated by increases in intracellular calcium levels within the growth cones (Cohan et al., 1987). 5-HT causes a receptor-mediated depolarization of the membrane, which results in the opening of voltage-sensitive calcium channels. The resulting calcium influx decreases both the elongation rate and the total outgrowth of neurites. However, the mechanism(s) mediating these calcium-dependent changes is unclear. As many of the intracellular effects of calcium in eukaryotic cells are mediated by the calcium-binding protein calmodulin, we tested the involvement of such an interaction in the regulation of neurite outgrowth. In these experiments, a new, potent calmodulin antagonist with increased selectivity, CGS 9343B (CGS; Norman et al., 1987), was used to inhibit calmodulin activity during the application of 5-HT to neuron B19. The addition of 100 microM 5-HT to the culture medium resulted in a significant decrease in the rate of neurite elongation and total neurite outgrowth. Administration of CGS to the culture medium at a concentration (1.8 microM) equivalent to its IC50 for calmodulin inhibition completely blocked the inhibitory effects of 100 microM 5-HT, on both neurite elongation and total neurite outgrowth. CGS alone caused a slight decrease in elongation rate but had no significant effect on total outgrowth. CGS did not block 5-HT-induced electrical activity, indicating that it was not acting as a 5-HT receptor antagonist.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Angiotensin II stimulates ammoniagenesis in canine renal proximal tubule segments.	To determine whether angiotensin II (ANG II) affects ammoniagenesis in renal proximal tubule, ammonia production was measured in suspensions of canine renal proximal tubule segments (PCT) incubated with L-glutamine and varying concentrations of ANG II. Ammonia production from PCT was significantly increased by 15.5 +/- 1.1% in the presence of ANG II (10(-6) M) at 2 h. Similarly, glucose production significantly increased by 10.0 +/- 0.9%. Half-maximal stimulation occurred at approximately 10(-9) M ANG II. Stimulation of ammonia production by ANG II was blocked in the presence of the ANG II antagonist, [Sar1-Ile8]ANG II (10(-6) M). Enhancement of ammonia production in PCT by ANG II occurred in acidotic and neutral media but not in alkalotic medium. When extracellular [Na+] = intracellular [Na+] ANG II significantly increased ammonia production in PCT. Absence of extracellular Ca2+ or addition of trifluoperazine or N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene sulfonamide (W-7) (Ca2(+)-calmodulin-dependent pathway inhibitors) blocked the action of ANG II to enhance ammonia production. We conclude that ANG II stimulates ammonia and glucose production in canine renal PCT via a receptor-mediated signal. The action of ANG II on ammoniagenesis may be mediated by a calcium-calmodulin-dependent pathway. Stimulation of ammoniagenesis in vitro under normal and acidotic conditions may reflect a role in vivo for ANG II in the regulation of renal acid-base metabolism.
Trifluoperazine modulation of resistance to the topoisomerase II inhibitor etoposide in doxorubicin resistant L1210 murine leukemia cells.	Murine leukemia L1210 cells selected for progressive resistance to doxorubicin (DOX) display both the multidrug resistant (MDR) phenotype and reductions in drug induced topoisomerase II-mediated DNA cleavage in nuclear extracts (Ganapathi, R.; Grabowski, D.; Ford, J.; Heiss, C.; Kerrigan, D.; Pommier, Y., Cancer Commun. 1:217-224; 1989). The present study was performed to characterize the results of exposure of the sensitive (S) and progressively DOX-resistant (10-fold, R1, and 40-fold, R2) L1210 cells to the topoisomerase II inhibitor, etoposide, and to investigate the modulating effects of the calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine (TFP). Immunoblotting experiments indicated no apparent decrease in the p170 or p180 isoforms of topoisomerase II in the resistant sublines versus parental sensitive cells. Cross-resistance to etoposide (VP-16) was similar to that of DOX (10- and 40-fold). A non-cytotoxic concentration of 5 microM TFP enhanced cell kill 1.5- fold in the sensitive and 3- to 5-fold in the progressively DOX-resistant cells. Accumulation of VP-16 was 30% to 50% lower in the resistant sublines versus similarly treated sensitive cells, and a marked enhancement of drug uptake in the presence of TFP was observed in the sensitive but not in the resistant cells exposed to equivalent extracellular levels of VP-16. Although equimolar concentrations of VP-16 produced fewer DNA single strand breaks (SSB) and DNA protein crosslinks (DPC) in the resistant versus sensitive cells, similar DNA damage was apparent when S and R1, but not R2, cells were treated at VP-16 concentrations that produced equivalent cell death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Inhibition of protein synthesis by antagonists of calmodulin in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.	Several recent publications indicate that Ca2+ is required for protein synthesis in mammalian cells, including the Ehrlich ascites tumor cell. The present communication examines whether the effects of Ca2+ might be mediated through calmodulin or a related protein. Four calmodulin antagonists belonging to different chemical categories were used to provide evidence of calmodulin involvement. Three of the antagonists inhibited protein synthesis in intact cells; 50% inhibitory concentrations were 10 microM calmidazolium, 12 microM N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W7) and 17.5 microM trifluoperazine (TFP). Initiation was preferentially inhibited as indicated by an increase in the 80S monomers accompanied by a significant disaggregation of polyribosomes. All the antagonists also inhibited protein synthesis initiation in the cell-free protein-synthesizing system; 50% inhibitory concentrations for compound 48/80, calmidazolium, TFP, and W7 were 10 microM, 125 microM, 300 microM and 500 microM, respectively. A weak analogue of W7 inhibited only 20% at 1000 microM. Inhibition in the cell-free system was reversed by the addition of exogenous calmodulin in all four cases. The levels of 43S complexes were significantly elevated with all four antagonists, indicating a block in the utilization of 43S complexes. The similarity of the effects of four distinct classes of antagonists and their ready reversal by exogenous calmodulin leads us to suggest that there may be a role for calmodulin or a very similar calcium-binding protein in protein synthesis.
Calcium transport by plasma membranes from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma.	Inside-out plasma membrane vesicles from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma showed an ATP- and Mg2(+)-dependent uptake of Ca2+. The Km (concentration giving half-maximal activity) for Ca2+ was 60 nM. In the presence of 0.4 microM free Ca2+, the Km for ATP was 15 microM, and the Km for Mg2+ was 4 microM. Glucose (30 mM) decreased Ca2+ uptake by 50%, while other insulin secretagogues had no effect, except for glyceraldehyde, which stimulated Ca2+ uptake. Calmodulin increased the uptake of Ca2+, while trifluoperazine and vanadate inhibited the uptake. The Ca2(+)- and Mg2(+)-dependent ATPase from this tumor has a 10- to 20-fold higher requirement for Ca2+, which suggests that this enzyme is not responsible for Ca2+ transport, rather, Ca2+ transport activity represents only a small fraction of the total Ca2(+)-ATPase activity. The physiological importance of Ca2+ transport in insulin secretion is evident from the inhibition of Ca2+ uptake by glucose, which leads to a decrease in Ca2+ efflux from the cell. This inhibition would lead to an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ and insulin release.
Cytochrome P-450 may link intracellular Ca2+ stores with plasma membrane Ca2+ influx.	We have studied the mechanism of the regulation of plasma membrane Ca2+ permeability by the degree of filling of the intracellular Ca2+ stores. Using Mn2+ as a Ca2+ surrogate for plasma membrane Ca2+ channels, we found that Mn2+ uptake by rat thymocytes is inversely related to the degree of filling of the intracellular Ca2+ stores. This store-dependent plasma membrane permeability is inhibited by oxygen scavenging, CO, imidazole antimycotics and other cytochrome P-450 inhibitors. The pattern of inhibition is similar to that reported previously for the inhibition of microsomal cytochrome P-450-mediated aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity of lymphocytes. Several calmodulin antagonists, both phenothiazinic (trifluoperazine, fluphenazine and chlorpromazine) and dibenzodiazepinic (clozapine), accelerate Mn2+ uptake by cells with Ca2(+)-filled stores, and this effect is prevented by imidazole antimycotics. Our results suggest that cytochrome P-450 may be the link between the stores and the plasma membrane Ca2+ pathway. We propose a model in which this cytochrome, sited at the stores, stimulates plasma membrane Ca2+ influx. This stimulatory effect is, in turn, prevented by the presence of Ca2+ inside the stores, possibly via a calmodulin-dependent mechanism.
Phosphorylation of coagulation factor II by phospholipid/Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C).	Prothrombin is a major constituent of the blood coagulation cascade and requires phospholipid and Ca2+ for its activation. We have found that phospholipid/Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase (Protein kinase C) phosphorylates prothrombin and the associated apparent Km value for prothrombin (0.86 microM) is comparable to the Km value reported for most known substrates of protein kinase C. A 2-dimension separation analysis revealed that serine residue was apparently phosphorylated by PKC. The phosphorylation was inhibited by such phosphatidylserine- and/or Ca2+ competitive protein kinase C inhibitors as trifluoperazine, palmitoylcarnitine and gossypol. These results suggest that protein kinase C phosphorylation was involved in the regulation of blood coagulation.
Direct visualization of phase separation induced by phenothiazine-type antipsychotic drugs in model lipid membranes.	Lipid rafts constitute dynamic assemblies within a bilayer, engaged in, e.g., signal transduction, membrane trafficking and cell polarization. Despite wide interest in the process of domain formation in binary or ternary lipid model systems, only a limited number of papers are devoted to the influence of different additives on this process. In particular, works devoted to the role of drugs in raft formation are missing. In the present study, the influence of trifluoperazine, thioridazine and chlorpromazine on domain organization in raft-mimicking model membranes was investigated. Using giant unilamellar vesicles formed from an equimolar DOPC:sphingomyelin:cholesterol mixture, we found that phenothiazines elevated the number of domains, decreased their area and markedly increased the total length of the domain border. The impact of studied drugs on phase separation in the raft lipid mixture was also confirmed by Laurdan generalized polarization measurements. Alteration of domain organization induced by antipsychotic drugs was very likely to arise from selective accumulation of phenothiazines in interfacial regions between liquid ordered and liquid disordered domains. Interpretation of the results allowed us to demonstrate new aspects underlaying mechanisms of action of phenothiazine-type antipsychotic drugs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating the influence of drugs on domain morphology directly visualized in giant unilamellar vesicles.
Calmodulin protects androgen receptor from calpain-mediated breakdown in prostate cancer cells.	Although inactivation of the androgen receptor (AR) by androgen-ablation or anti-androgen treatment has been frontline therapy for disseminated prostate cancer for over 60 years, it is not curative because castration-resistant prostate cancer cells retain AR activity. Therefore, curative strategy should include targeted elimination of AR protein. Since AR binds to calmodulin (CaM), and since CaM-binding proteins are targets of calpain (Cpn)-mediated proteolysis, we studied the role of CaM and Cpn in AR breakdown in prostate cancer cells. Whereas the treatment of prostate cancer cells individually with anti-CaM drug or calcimycin, which increases intracellular Ca(++) and activates Cpn, led to minimal AR breakdown, combined treatment led to a precipitous decrease in AR protein levels. This decrease in AR protein occurred without noticeable changes in AR mRNA levels, suggesting an increase in AR protein turnover rather than inhibition of AR mRNA expression. Thus, CaM inactivation seems to sensitize AR to Cpn-mediated breakdown in prostate cancer cells. Consistent with this possibility, purified recombinant human AR (rhAR) underwent proteolysis in the presence of purified Cpn, and the addition of purified CaM to the incubation blocked rhAR proteolysis. Together, these observations demonstrate that AR is a Cpn target and AR-bound CaM plays an important role in protecting AR from Cpn-mediated breakdown in prostate cancer cells. These observations raise an intriguing possibility that anti-CaM drugs in combination with Cpn-activating agents may offer a curative strategy for the treatment of prostate cancer, which relies on AR for growth and survival.
Effects of medium calcium, and agents affecting cytoskeletal function, on cellular volume and morphology in liver tissue in vitro.	The possible role of an exocytotic, vesicular mechanism in cellular volume regulation under iso-osmotic conditions has been studied in slices of rat liver. The effects of incubation conditions and agents affecting the actin cytoskeleton were examined for changes of water, ionic composition, and ultrastructure. Slices were pre-incubated at 1C in an iso-osmotic buffered medium to induce swelling. Upon restoration to 37C in the same medium, tissue lost water. The Na+-K+ adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) inhibitor ouabain inhibited water extrusion of about 50%, an effect that was accompanied by the formation of characteristic vesicles in the cytoplasmic region between the Golgi apparatus and the bile canaliculi. Water extrusion in the presence of ouabain was partially inhibited by trifluoroperazine and completely inhibited when the medium was free of Ca2+. In the presence of ouabain, brefeldin A caused a small reduction of water extrusion, whereas phalloidin and cytochalasins A, D, or E caused a marked inhibition. In these conditions there was a marked increase in size and number of cytoplasmic vesicles and a more widespread distribution of them within the cells, lacking the more specific orientation to the Golgi and canalicular regions that was seen in the presence of ouabain alone. Water extrusion was inhibited by phalloidin and cytochalasins in the absence of ouabain. In conclusion, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that iso-osmotic expulsion of water from hepatocytes can proceed partly through an accumulation of water in cytoplasmic vesicles, followed by exocytosis. This mechanism does not depend on Na+-K+ ATPase activity.
Interrelationship between calmodulin (CaM) and H2O2 in abscisic acid-induced antioxidant defense in the seedlings of Panax ginseng.	Calmodulin (CaM), the predominant Ca(2+) receptors, is one of the best-characterized Ca(2+) sensors in all eukaryotes. In this study the role of CaM and the possible interrelationship between CaM and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in abscisic acid (ABA) induced antioxidant defense were investigated in the seedling of Panax ginseng. Treatment of ABA (100 M) and H(2)O(2) (10 mM) increased the expression of Panax ginseng calmodulin gene (PgCaM) and significantly enhanced the expression of the antioxidant marker genes such as superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase and the activities of chloroplastic and cytosolic antioxidant enzymes. Pretreatments with two CaM antagonists, trifluoperazine (TFP), N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene sulfonamide hydrochloride (W7) and inhibitor or scavenger, diphenyleneiodonium chloride, and dimethylthiourea of reactive oxygen species almost completely suppressed the up-regulation of antioxidant and PgCaM gene. Moreover, H(2)O(2) production and CaM content was almost completely inhibited by pretreatments with two CaM antagonists. In addition, the expressions of PgCaM gene under different biotic stress were analyzed at different time intervals. Thus it may suggests that CaM are involved in ABA-induced increased expression of PgCaM which triggers H(2)O(2) production through activating trans-plasma membrane NADPH oxidase, resulting in up-regulation of defense related antioxidant gene and also plays a pivotal role in defense response against pathogens.
Antipsychotic drugs activate the C. elegans akt pathway via the DAF-2 insulin/IGF-1 receptor.	The molecular modes of action of antipsychotic drugs are poorly understood beyond their effects at the dopamine D2 receptor. Previous studies have placed Akt signaling downstream of D2 dopamine receptors, and recent data have suggested an association between psychotic illnesses and defective Akt signaling. To characterize the effect of antipsychotic drugs on the Akt pathway, we used the model organism C. elegans, a simple system where the Akt/forkhead box O transcription factor (FOXO) pathway has been well characterized. All major classes of antipsychotic drugs increased signaling through the insulin/Akt/FOXO pathway, whereas four other drugs that are known to affect the central nervous system did not. The antipsychotic drugs inhibited dauer formation, dauer recovery, and shortened lifespan, three biological processes affected by Akt signaling. Genetic analysis showed that AKT-1 and the insulin and insulin-like growth factor receptor, DAF-2, were required for the antipsychotic drugs to increase signaling. Serotonin synthesis was partially involved, whereas the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK), SEK-1 is a MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK), and calcineurin were not involved. This is the first example of a common but specific molecular effect produced by all presently known antipsychotic drugs in any biological system. Because untreated schizophrenics have been reported to have low levels of Akt signaling, increased Akt signaling might contribute to the therapeutic actions of antipsychotic drugs.
Trifluoperazine, an antipsychotic agent, inhibits cancer stem cell growth and overcomes drug resistance of lung cancer.	Cancer stem cell (CSC) theory has drawn much attention, with evidence supporting the contribution of stem cells to tumor initiation, relapse, and therapy resistance.
Calmodulin antagonists inhibit dihydropyridine calcium channel activator (BAY-K-8644) induced cGMP synthesis in pituitary tumor cells.	The dihydropyridine calcium channel activator, BAY-K-8644, stimulates cGMP formation in ACTH-secreting mouse AtT-20 clonal corticotrophs. The recent report that calmodulin antagonists could inhibit dihydropyridine binding in several tissues suggested that these agents might also affect the cyclic nucleotide response to BAY-K-8644. In fact, TMB-8, trifluoperazine, and melittin, described as in vitro antagonists of calmodulin-dependent enzyme activities, all inhibited BAY-K-8644 induced cGMP synthesis in a concentration-dependent manner. The antagonists had no effect on cGMP formation stimulated by sodium nitroprusside or sodium azide. The calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine, did not stimulate cGMP formation nor did it alter the effect of BAY-K-8644 on accumulation of the nucleotide; one explanation thus is that the cyclase involved in cGMP formation is coupled to a low affinity binding site for BAY-K-8644, which is less accessible to other dihydropyridines. The relation of cyclic GMP formation to the function of the calcium channel in AtT-20 cells remains unknown.
Interaction of bleomycin, hyperthermia and a calmodulin inhibitor (trifluoperazine) in mouse tumor cells.	To improve the efficacy of thermochemotherapy we have investigated the individual and combined effects of hyperthermia (44 degrees C) and the calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine (30 micrograms/ml) on early plateau phase cultures of mouse EMT6 cells for simultaneous exposures to bleomycin. We found that a non-toxic combination of hyperthermia and trifluoperazine: enhanced the cytotoxicity of bleomycin, increased the frequency of long-lived attachment sites of cellular DNA at the nuclear matrix, and resulted in an accumulation of DNA damage (strand-breaks and alkali-labile lesions) caused by the inhibition of strand-break rejoining and the impaired processing of DNA sites involving base loss. Our findings implicate a role for calmodulin in the control of chromatin structural changes during DNA repair and the study provides a rational basis for the use of calmodulin inhibitors in thermochemotherapy.
Chemical modulation of bleomycin induced toxicity.	Both lidocaine (LIDO) and the calmodulin (CaM) antagonists, pimozide (PIM) and trifluoperazine (TFP), enhanced bleomycin (BLM) induced cytotoxicity and DNA damage. The toxicity with the combination of BLM and CaM antagonists represented true pharmacological synergism and was observed with the addition of the CaM antagonist either during or after BLM exposure. Additionally, the DNA damage of BLM and the BLM-like drugs, talisomycin S10b (TAL) or peplomycin (PEPLO), was also enhanced by CaM antagonists. LIDO, which similarly increased the lethal effects and DNA damage of BLM in L1210 cells, was also effective only during or after BLM exposure. The data presented here indicate that the modulation of toxicity seen with these drug combinations is reflected by changes in DNA integrity. Furthermore, these data suggest that the inhibition of DNA repair processes may be at least partially responsible for the enhanced toxicity and DNA damage when CaM antagonists or LIDO are added to BLM.
Inhibitory effects of trifluoperazine and chlorpromazine, calmodulin inhibitor, on autoregulation of renal blood flow.	An intra-arterial infusion of a calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine (3 mg/min) or chlorpromazine (5 mg/min) caused obvious inhibition of autoregulation of renal blood flow in dogs. Simultaneous infusion of CaCl2 (30 mg/min) or Ca channel activator BAY K 8644 (5 micrograms/min) with these calmodulin inhibitors reduced renal blood flow, but could not block the inhibitory activity of calmodulin inhibitors on the autoregulation. The present experiment shows the contribution of the Ca-calmodulin system to the mechanism of autoregulation of renal blood flow.
Calcium-binding proteins and insulin release. Differential effects of phenothiazines on first- and second-phase secretion and on islet cAMP response to glucose.	Calcium and cAMP are interdependent regulators of glucose-induced insulin release. In the present study we investigated the importance of cAMP and calcium-binding proteins for biphasic insulin secretion by assessing the effects of two phenothiazines known to block such proteins, trifluoroperazine (TFP) and promethazine (PMZ). In isolated rat islets, during 60-min incubations with 16.7 mmol/l glucose both agents inhibited the insulin response with ID50 values of 15 mumol/l for TFP and 5 mumol/l for PMZ. Both agents decreased the maximal insulin response without gross changes in the islet sensitivity to glucose. TFP (15 mumol/l), whereas inducing 50% inhibition of second-phase insulin release, totally suppressed the cAMP response to glucose and the accompanying first-phase insulin secretion (5-min incubations); these effects of TFP could be partially reversed by isobutyl methylxanthine (IBMX). In contrast, 5 mumol/l PMZ, which produced 60% inhibition of second-phase insulin release, had no effect on first-phase insulin and cAMP responses to glucose. Furthermore, IBMX did not modify the inhibitory effect of PMZ on second-phase insulin secretion. The following is concluded: 1. TFP acts preferentially on first-phase insulin release and inhibits cAMP formation; this suggests that calmodulin plays a major role in mediating the initial glucose effect on secretion via stimulation of cAMP. 2. The islet probably contains calcium-sensitive proteins other than calmodulin, since the low concentrations of PMZ shown to inhibit second-phase insulin release lack effects on calmodulin. Synexin could be such a protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lack of a central role for calcium in the induction and release of human interleukin-1.	This study examines the potential role of calcium in the activation of human monocytes by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to produce interleukin-1 (IL-1). Monocytes cannot be triggered to produce IL-1 through addition of calcium ionophores. Triggering of IL-1 production by LPS cannot be blocked by depletion of extracellular calcium, blockade of calcium channels, or addition of agents which antagonize the effects of intracellular calcium. Finally, the addition of LPS does not induce the mobilization of intracellular free calcium as measured by quin-2 fluorescence.
Effects of nonsteroidal phospholipase inhibitors and glucocorticoids on endothelium-dependent relaxations of rabbit aorta induced by different agents.	The present study investigates the effect of described nonsteroidal phospholipase inhibitors [mepacrine, papaverine, trifluoperazine (TFP), p-bromophenacyl bromide (pBPB), compound CB 874] and of glucocorticoids on endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations of rabbit aorta. Endothelium-dependent relaxations were elicited by acetylcholine, Ca2+ ionophore A23187, melittin, and thimerosal. These four agents also stimulated vascular prostacyclin formation. Prostacyclin does not relax rabbit aorta; it was measured as an indicator of phospholipid hydrolysis. All putative nonsteroidal phospholipase inhibitors blocked acetylcholine-induced relaxations. Since papaverine did not inhibit prostacyclin production, it cannot be considered a phospholipase inhibitor in this tissue. Relaxations in response to A23187 were blocked only by pBPB and CB 874, which can interact with phospholipases directly. Melittin-induced relaxations were suppressed by mepacrine, TFP, pBPB, and CB 874. Relaxations elicited by thimerosal were not affected by mepacrine, but were abolished by the other three inhibitors. All inhibitors were ineffective against endothelium-independent relaxations induced by glyceryl trinitrate. Effective blockade of endothelial relaxations correlated with inhibition of prostacyclin formation. In the presence of glucocorticoids, no inhibition of endothelium-mediated relaxations and no inhibition of prostacyclin formation occurred, indicating unimpaired phospholipase activity. These findings suggest that cleavage of phospholipids may be important in the triggering of the production of endothelium-derived relaxing factor.
The role of calmodulin in rat parotid amylase secretion: effects of calmodulin antagonists on secretion and acinar cell structure.	Using dispersed rat parotid cells, the effects of three calmodulin antagonists, trifluoperazine (TFP), N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalensulfonamide (W-7), and N-(6-aminohexyl)-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-5), on amylase release and acinar cell structure were examined. TFP and W-7 strongly inhibited both isoproterenol (ISO)- and dibutyryl cyclic AMP-stimulated amylase release at a concentration of 50 or 100 microM, while W-5, a weak calmodulin antagonist, had only little effect. Cyclic AMP level was markedly elevated by ISO even in the presence of TFP or W-7. These results indicate that the calmodulin antagonists affect amylase release at steps distal to cyclic AMP metabolism. Electron micrographs demonstrated that treatment of parotid cells with either TFP or W-7 caused a loss of luminal microvilli and surface folds. When cells were stimulated by ISO in the presence of TFP or W-7, the enlarged lumina did not recover to their original size and the discharged secretory material was retained in the lumina. Numerous secretory granules remained in the acinar cytoplasm. W-5 affected the acinar cell structure only a little. These observations lead to the assumption that TFP and W-7 interfered with the normal functions of the cytoskeletal system. It is proposed that calmodulin may be involved in the exocytosis of parotid amylase through the regulation of the cytoskeletal system.
ATP regulation of calcium transport in back-inhibited sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.	At high concentrations of ATP, ATP hydrolysis and Ca2+ transport by the (Ca2+ + MG2+)-ATPase of intact sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles exhibit a secondary activation that varies with the extent of back-inhibition by Ca2+ accumulated within the vesicles. When the internal ionized Ca2+ is clamped at low and intermediate levels by the use of Ca-precipitating anions, the apparent Km values for activation by ATP are lower than in fully back-inhibited vesicles (high internal Ca2+). In leaky vesicles unable to accumulate Ca2+, raising Ca2+ in the assay medium from 20-30 microM to 5 mM abolishes the activation of hydrolysis by high concentrations of ATP. The level of [32P]phosphoenzyme formed during ATP hydrolysis from [32P]phosphate added to the medium also varies with the extent of back-inhibition; it is highest when Ca2+ is raised to a level that saturates the internal, low-affinity Ca2+ binding sites. In intact vesicles, increasing the ATP concentration from 10 to 400 microM competitively inhibits the reaction of inorganic phosphate with the enzyme but does not change the rate of hydrolysis. In a previous report (De Meis, L., Gomez-Puyou, M.T. and Gomez-Puyou, A. (1988) Eur. J. Biochem. 171, 343-349), it has been shown that the hydrophobic molecules trifluoperazine and iron bathophenanthroline compete for the catalytic site of the Pi-reactive form of the enzyme. Here it is shown that inhibition of ATP hydrolysis by these compounds is reduced or abolished when Ca2+ binds to the low-affinity Ca2+ binding sites of the enzyme. Since inhibition by these agents is indifferent to activation of hydrolysis by high concentrations of ATP, it is suggested that the second Km for ATP and the inhibition by hydrophobic molecules involve two different Ca-free forms of the enzyme.
Treatment of A431 cells with epidermal growth factor (EGF) induces desensitization of EGF-stimulated phosphatidylinositol turnover.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulates the turnover of phosphoinositides in A431 cells. In cells that were pretreated with EGF for 30 min at 37 degrees C and then washed to remove surface-bound hormone, a 70-100% decrease in the EGF-stimulated production of inositol monophosphate, inositol bisphosphate, and inositol triphosphate was noted when the cells were exposed to the agonist a second time. Since only a 15% decrease in receptor number was observed in these pretreated cells, the loss of responsiveness to EGF for the production of inositol phosphates could not be attributed to a down-regulation of the EGF receptors. These data suggest that pretreatment of A431 cells with high concentrations of EGF leads to a desensitization of the EGF receptor. This desensitization of the receptor by EGF is apparent within 10-15 min of the addition of EGF and is maximal by 30 min. The desensitization appears to be homologous in nature since pretreatment of cells with EGF did not diminish their responsiveness to bradykinin; and conversely, pretreatment with bradykinin did not diminish the subsequent responsiveness of the cells to EGF. Desensitization to EGF was observed in cells in which protein kinase C had been down-regulated by prolonged treatment with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, implying that EGF receptor desensitization is independent of protein kinase C. The desensitizing effects of EGF on growth factor-induced phosphatidylinositol turnover could be prevented by pretreatment of the cells with the calmodulin antagonist trifluoperazine, suggesting that calmodulin may be involved in the regulation of EGF receptor sensitivity.
The action of calcitonin on the TM4 Sertoli cell line and on rat Sertoli cell-enriched cultures.	The effects of synthetic salmon calcitonin on primary Sertoli cell-enriched cultures and on an established cell line (TM4 cells, derived from immature mouse Sertoli cells) were studied. Synthetic salmon calcitonin stimulated the conversion of [3H]adenine to [3H]cyclic AMP in both cell systems. In addition, this peptide stimulated the secretion of rABP in primary Sertoli cell-enriched cultures prepared from rat testis. Calcitonin also increased the total concentration of both androgen and estrogen receptors in TM4 cells. Because cAMP analogs decreased androgen and estrogen receptor concentrations, the effect of calcitonin on sex steroid receptors may not be mediated by its effect on cyclic AMP in these cells. The possibility that the action of synthetic salmon calcitonin on the receptors might be mediated by a change in cellular Ca2+ was investigated. Lowering extracellular Ca2+ concentrations from 1.5 mM to less than 0.01 mM markedly reduced the concentration of androgen and estrogen receptors; restoration of Ca2+ to 1.5 mM returned receptor levels to normal. When the receptor concentrations were decreased by lowering extracellular Ca2+ concentrations to 0.5 mM, treatment with the calcium ionophore, A23187, restored receptor levels to normal. Although the calcium channel blocker, verapamil, decreased receptor levels, calcitonin partially counteracted its effect. Trifluoperazine, an inhibitor of calmodulin, also diminished androgen and estrogen receptor, levels in the cytosol of TM4 cells. It was concluded that calcitonin stimulates the formation of cyclic AMP and the secretion of rABP by Sertoli cells. This peptide also increases the concentration of androgen and estrogen receptors, possibly by a mechanism that is, in part, Ca2+ -mediated. These results, along with those on Leydig cells, suggest that calcitonin could be a regulator of testicular function.
Biosynthesis, processing and half-life of P-glycoprotein in a human multidrug-resistant KB cell.	The biosynthesis, processing, and half-life of the drug efflux pump, P-glycoprotein, were studied in human multidrug-resistant KB (KB-C2) cells selected for resistance to colchicine. An antibody directed against a synthetic oligopeptide corresponding to the amino-acid sequence (Glu-393-Lys-408) of P-glycoprotein from human mdr1 cDNA was prepared in rabbits. With immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation, we detected a 140-170 kDa protein in KB-C2 cells but not in parental sensitive KB cells. KB-C2 cells made a 125 kDa precursor that was slowly processed (t1/2 = 45 min) to the mature form of 140-150 kDa. The processing rate of P-glycoprotein was slower than that of low-density lipoprotein receptor. We detected another 160-180 kDa smear band, which might be a completely denatured form of P-glycoprotein. With immunoblotting, a minor band of high molecular mass (greater than 500 kDa) was also detected and this form increased after the cells were treated with chemical cross-linker, 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The half-life of P-glycoprotein was long; no significant loss of P-glycoprotein was observed within 24 h after synthesis. Cells treated with tunicamycin produced a 120 kDa form of P-glycoprotein which was no longer processed but showed stability similar to that of the mature 140-150 kDa form. Agents that reverse multidrug resistance, phorbol ester and transport substrate did not affect the stability of P-glycoprotein.
The effect of Ca deprivation and of Ca-blocking drugs on oxytocin-induced contractions of the male mouse anococcygeus.	Oxytocin (4 nM)-induced contractions of the male mouse anococcygeus were rapidly and completely lost in EGTA (2 mM)-containing, Ca-free Krebs solution. Contractions were also lost, although more slowly, in Ca-free Krebs solution without EGTA; under such conditions, readdition of Ca did not by itself cause contraction, but readdition of Ca (0.1-2.5 mM) in the presence of 4 nM oxytocin resulted in a rapid contractile response. These Ca-induced responses, in the presence of oxytocin, and those to oxytocin in normal Ca-containing Krebs solution, were unaffected by nitrendipine (0.01-1 microM). Contractions to oxytocin were completely blocked by the calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine (50 microM) and W-7 (75 microM). It is concluded that oxytocin-induced contraction of the mouse anococcygeus does not require opening of nitrendipine-sensitive Ca channels, and there is no Ca-independent component of the contractile response; the cellular mechanisms linked to the oxytocin receptor in the anococcygeus are therefore different from those in the uterus.
Preventive effect of trifluoperazine on atherosclerosis induced by cholesterol & adrenaline in rabbits.	Studies on the preventive role of trifluoperazine on cholesterol and adrenaline-induced experimental atherosclerosis in rabbits, revealed that trifluoperazine completely prevented the development of atherosclerotic lesions in both the aorta and coronary arteries of animals administered atherogenic diet and adrenaline (im) despite the fact that this drug had no significant effect on the elevated serum lipid profile induced by atherogenic diet. These findings confirm earlier observations of the authors that trifluoperazine has an inherent capacity to prevent atherogenesis.
Cyclosporin A-sensitive and insensitive mechanisms produce the permeability transition in mitochondria.	Cyclosporin A is a potent inhibitor of the mitochondrial permeability transition, possibly by blocking an inner membrane pore through which solute movements occur [Broekemeier et al. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 7826-7830]. The inhibitory effect of cyclosporin, however, is transient. Trifluoperazine, at concentrations which inhibit the mitochondrial phospholipase A2, also produces a transient inhibition. When both inhibitors are used together, the inhibitory effect is long lasting. These findings suggest that the transition can be caused by two overlapping and/or interactive mechanisms, one dependent on an inner membrane pore and the other on phospholipase A2.
Effects of trifluoperazine on prolactin release and cyclic AMP formation and degradation in GH4C1 pituitary cells.	In GH4C1 cells, the calmodulin antagonist trifluoperazine (TFP) showed a dose-dependent, biphasic effect on the basal release of PRL. An inhibition of PRL release was observed with 15-50 mumol/l TFP, whereas a concentration of 100 mumol/l and above had a stimulatory effect. The increase in basal hormone release evoked by TRH (1 mumol/l) and high extracellular concentration of K+ (50 mmol/l) was eliminated by 30 mumol/l TFP. The stimulatory effect of 100 mumol/l TFP on basal hormone release was not affected by addition of TRH (1 mumol/l) or K+ (50 mmol/l). The Ca2+ antagonists Co2+ (5 mmol/l) and verapamil (100 mumol/l), and the Ca2+ chelator EgTA (4 mmol/l) abolished the stimulatory effect of TRH (1 mumol/l) and of K+ (50 mmol/l) on PRL release, whereas only Co2+ inhibited the stimulation caused by 100 mumol/l TFP. TFP (75 mumol/l) caused a transient increase in the concentration of cellular cAMP. Incubation of intact GH4C1 cells with TFP (75 mumol/l), had an inhibitory effect on both the low and the high affinity form of cAMP phosphodiesterase. Basal as well as TRH-stimulated adenyl cyclase activity were inhibited by TFP, and this effect was counteracted by addition of calmodulin.
Influence of trifluoperazine on ACTH- or angiotensin-stimulated mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid secretion in man.	During stimulation of adrenocortical secretion the calcium--calmodulin system is activated to a different extent, depending on the secretagogue substance. In the submitted paper the influence of therapeutic doses of the calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine, on aldosterone and cortisol secretion stimulated by ACTH or by activation of endogenous angiotensin by furosemide was investigated in healthy subjects. Trifluoperazine already in amounts of 6 mg/day administered for one week inhibited the "basal" aldosterone secretion assessed in a vertical position (p less than 0.01) and ACTH stimulated secretion (during the 30th minute p less than 0.05). The basal aldosterone secretion assessed in a horizontal position was not affected by trifluoperazine, similarly as it did not affect the secretory response to endogenous angiotensin activated by furosemide, regardless whether a dose of 6 mg or 12 mg/day was used. ACTH stimulated cortisol blood levels were after trifluoperazine insignificantly but constantly lower throughout the test, while they were not altered by trifluoperazine in the furosemide test. The plasma calcium level was not significantly affected by trifluoperazine. It may be concluded that trifluoperazine alters ACTH stimulated mineralocorticoid secretion, while it does not influence angiotensin stimulated secretion. The revealed differences in adrenocortical response to trifluoperazine in vivo cannot be explained merely by a different sensitivity of the calcium-calmodulin system to stimulation by two different secretagogues, but by interaction of some regulatory mechanisms influenced by trifluoperazine with adrenocortical secretion.
Interaction of calmodulin with iodothyronines: effect of iodothyronines on the calmodulin activation of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase.	The interaction between calmodulin and iodothyronines and the effect of iodothyronines on the calmodulin activation of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase were investigated. Binding of [L-125I]triiodothyronine to calmodulin from pig brain, studied by equilibrium dialysis, was dependent on Ca2+, was saturable and reversible, with an apparent Kd of 2.79 microM and binding capacity of 0.5 nmol/20 micrograms of calmodulin L- and D-thyroxine, D-triiodothyronine and tetrac displaced [L-125I]triiodothyronine at concentrations of 8-10 microM; triac, 3,3'-diiodothyronine and reverse-triiodothyronine were weak displacers. In the presence of the antipsychotic drug trifluoperazine, binding decreased in a dose-related manner. Ultraviolet irradiation of calmodulin in the presence of trifluoperazine reduced the binding of [L-125I]triiodothyronine to calmodulin irreversibly. Calmodulin activation of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase decreased when iodothyronines were bound to calmodulin; the calmodulin-L-triiodothyronine complex was the most active among the stereoisomers of thyroxine and triiodothyronine. These results suggest that, when triiodothyronine was bound to Ca2+-calmodulin, the activation of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase by the latter is suppressed.
Calmodulin inhibitors, W-7 and TFP, block the calmodulin-independent activation of NADPH-oxidase by arachidonate in a cell-free system.	The calmodulin inhibitor, N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene sulfonamide (W-7), or trifluoperazine inhibited not only Fc gamma-receptor mediated cytosolic free Ca2+ increase and O2- generation in macrophages, but also an arachidonate-induced activation of NADPH-oxidase in a cell-free system. Although these results suggested the involvement of Ca2+-calmodulin system, the cell-free activation of NADPH-oxidase occurred in the presence of EGTA and addition of calmodulin had no effect. Furthermore W-7 shifted the optimal concentration of arachidonate required for the activation to a higher level, suggesting that W-7 may block the interaction between arachidonate and NADPH-oxidase system rather than inhibiting a Ca2+-calmodulin system.
Neuroleptics decrease calcium-activated potassium conductance in hippocampal pyramidal cells.	Intracellular recordings were made from pyramidal CA1-neurones of the hippocampal slice preparation. Bath application of a wide variety of neuroleptics was found to depress the slow afterhyperpolarization, which is mediated in these neurons by a calcium-dependent potassium conductance occurring following a burst of spikes. The depression of this conductance took place in the presence of calcium spikes of normal amplitude and duration, and except in the case of trifluoperazine, without alteration in resting membrane potential or input resistance.
Differentiation of calcium antagonists with respect to their effects in normal and skinned taenia caeci preparations.	In taenia preparations, depolarized by a K+-rich medium, Ca2+ caused contraction and cinnarizine (0.4-100 microM), trifluoperazine (2-100 microM) and verapamil (0.02-10 microM) caused concentration-dependent antagonism of Ca2+, displacing the Ca2+ log concentration-effect curve to the right and depressing the maximal response. Equieffective (IC75) antispasmogenic concentrations were selected. The antispasmogenic effects of verapamil were readily offset by removing the drug from the bathing fluid but those of the other drugs were not. The calcium antagonists (antispasmogenic IC75) were then tested for spasmolytic activity in tissues generating tension in response to the EC80 of Ca2+. Verapamil was more effective in producing spasmolysis than cinnarazine or trifluoperazine. In skinned taenia preparations, verapamil (100 microM) did not inhibit Ca2+-induced contractions. High concentrations of cinnarizine (100 microM) and trifluoperazine (100 microM) inhibited Ca2+-induced activation of the contractile proteins. However, antispasmogenic IC75s from intact taenia were not able to produce this effect on skinned preparations. It is concluded that there are differences between calcium antagonists. The action of verapamil on intact taenia is mainly exerted on the plasma membrane. Cinnarizine and trifluoperazine act both on the plasma membrane and upon the intracellular contractile machinery.
Comparison of the acute actions of amine-depleting drugs and dopamine receptor antagonists on dopamine function in the brain in rats.	The effects of the monoamine depleting drugs oxypertine, tetrabenazine and reserpine were compared with those of the dopamine receptor antagonists, chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine, on behavioural and biochemical indices of dopamine function in the brain. Oxypertine (0.625-20 mg/kg, i.p.), chlorpromazine (0.625-20 mg/kg i.p.) and trifluoperazine (0.0625-2.0 mg/kg i.p.), administered to rats 1 hr previously, inhibited stereotyped behaviour induced by both amphetamine (5.0 mg/kg i.p.) and apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) in a dose-dependent manner. Tetrabenazine (0.625-20 mg/kg i.p., 1 hr previously) inhibited stereotypy induced by amphetamine but not that induced by apomorphine. Reserpine (0.1 10 mg/kg i.p., 6 hr previously) did not inhibit, but in larger doses, tended to enhance the stereotyped responses to both amphetamine and apomorphine. Oxypertine (10 mg/kg, i.p., 1 hr previously), tetrabenazine (5 mg/kg i.p., 1 hr previously) and reserpine (2.5 mg/kg i.p., 6 hr previously) reduced the content of dopamine in the striatum but increased the concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). Chlorpromazine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and trifluoperazine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), given 1 hr previously, did not alter concentrations of dopamine in the striatum but increased those of HVA and DOPAC. Oxypertine, chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine weakly inhibited dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase in homogenates of the striatum in the rat. Tetrabenazine and reserpine had no effect. Similarly, trifluoperazine and chlorpromazine displaced the specific binding of [3H]piflutixol to membranes from the striatum. Oxypertine also was weakly effective, but tetrabenazine and reserpine were without effect. Trifluoperazine, chlorpromazine and oxypertine displaced specific binding of [3H]spiperone and [3H]N,n-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) to preparations of the striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chronic pharmacological manipulation of dopamine receptors in brain.	Dopamine receptors in the brain play an important role in the treatment of schizophrenia and in the development of tardive dyskinesia. In Parkinson's disease the loss of dopamine innervation and the use of chronic administration of L-DOPA or therapy with dopamine agonists also affects the function of dopamine receptors in brain. Subacute administration of neuroleptic drugs to rodents for a few weeks followed by the withdrawal of the drug induces supersensitivity of dopamine receptors in the striatum. However, the long-term administration of neuroleptic drugs to rodents shows that typical neuroleptic drugs can induce functional supersensitivity of dopamine receptors despite continued administration of drug. In contrast, atypical neuroleptics such as sulpiride, do not appear to induce the same changes in the activity of dopamine receptors. The functional supersensitivity of dopamine receptors produced by repeated administration of neuroleptic is reflected in changes in cholinergic, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and peptide neuronal systems. Chronic treatment of parkinsonian patients with drugs may obscure the changes in the function of dopamine receptors caused by the disease process. However, chronic administration of L-DOPA to normal rats and to rats with a unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway induced with 6-hydroxydopamine does not produce a down-regulation of the number of dopamine receptors. Rather, these experiments indicate the development of a functional supersensitivity of dopamine receptors in the absence of any obvious change in the nature of dopamine receptor populations in brain. In conclusion, while pharmacological manipulation, using neuroleptic drugs, produces the expected development of receptor supersensitivity, studies involving chronic treatment with agonists suggests that dopamine receptors do not always respond as would be predicted. It appears that there are aspects of the regulation of dopamine receptors in brain following pharmacological manipulation which remain to be resolved.
Trifluoperazine-sensitive activation of the spontaneous transmitter release at the frog motor endplates by low doses of procaine.	Low concentrations of procaine (10(-6)-5 X 10(-5) mol/l) induced a significant increase of the spontaneous quantal transmitter release in the neuromuscular junctions of the frog cutaneous pectoris nerve-muscle preparation. The frequency of miniature endplate potentials (mepps) was increased although their size slightly decreased probably on the account of a partial block of Na+-channels at the postsynaptic membrane. The activatory effect of pre-caine was not altered under experimental conditions known to change the Ca2+ fluxes across the nerve terminal membrane such as using a Ca2+-free Ringer, or a Ca2+-channel blocker (D600), a high K+ Ringer or, finally, a low Na+ Ringer. In the presence of caffeine no change of procaine-induced activation appeared. Trifluoperazine (TFP), in a concentration known to specifically block calmodulin, completely blocked the procaine-induced increase of mepp frequency. These data suggest that procaine presumably by way of a calmodulin-dependent mechanism is related to the free cytosolic Ca2+ equilibrium. It is possible that procaine increases the free cytosolic Ca2+ concentration by blocking an active calmodulin-dependent Ca2+ extrusion mechanism.
Calmodulin dependence of somatostatin release stimulated by growth hormone-releasing factor.	Experiments were performed in vitro to examine the possible role of calcium and calmodulin in GRF-induced somatostatin (SRIF) release from the median eminence. Adult male rats were used as tissue donors. The median eminences were first prestimulated in 0.4 ml Krebs Ringer bicarbonate glucose buffer (pH 7.4) containing bacitracin at 37C in an atmosphere of 95% O2, 5% CO2 with constant shaking for 30 min. When calcium was omitted, this medium was used during the prestimulation and stimulation periods. After prestimulation, the medium was discarded and replaced by medium containing the different substances to be tested (GRF, EGTA, calcium channel blockers, and calmodulin inhibitors). The stimulation of SRIF release induced by 10(-10) M GRF was not inhibited by omission of extracellular calcium or when the remaining CA+2 was chelated with 10(-4) M EGTA. The calcium channel blockers, nifendipine and verapamil (10(-6) M), failed to alter the increase of SRIF release induced by rGRF. Three calmodulin inhibitors were employed to examine the possible influence of calmodulin on GRF-induced SRIF release. Trifluoperazine (10(-6) M), triflupromazine (10(-6) M) and penfluridol (10(-7) M) had an inhibitory effect on the stimulation of SRIF release induced by GRF and failed to alter resting release. Thus, GRF can evoke SRIF release independently of extraterminal Ca+2 concentration and Ca+2 influx into the nerve terminals, but the releasing process involves translocation of Ca+2 from intracellular stores. The inhibitory effect of the calmodulin inhibitors on GRF-induced SRIF release, suggests that the translocated Ca+2 must bind to calmodulin in order to release SRIF.
Selective abolition of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles' calcium releasing mechanisms.	The ability of calcium loaded heavy sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles to specifically respond to the addition of various agents such as caffeine, calcium ions and calmodulin antagonists to rapidly released calcium can largely be diminished by passing the vesicular suspension it 0.3 M sucrose, 0.6 M KCl, 4 mM CaCl2, pH 7.0 through a Sepharose 6B column or by centrifuging it through a sucrose gradient prepared with the same salt medium. Inactivation of calcium release does neither interfere with calcium uptake nor with the unspecific releasing effect caused by the application of high concentrations of calmodulin antagonists.
Subcellular distribution of calmodulin and its binding proteins within the rat submandibular gland.	The involvement of calmodulin (CaM) in rat submandibular gland mucin secretion was investigated in vitro using a dispersed cell preparation. The CaM antagonist trifluoperazine (TFP) inhibited mucin secretion in response to both isoproterenol and dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate. The inhibitory concentrations of TFP were between 10 and 100 microM. One millimolar TFP was toxic to submandibular cells and resulted in decreased levels of cellular ATP and a significant release of lactate dehydrogenase. Determination of CaM levels via radioimmunoassay within various subcellular fractions indicated that the majority of the CaM within the rat submandibular cell was located within the cytoplasm. CaM binding proteins were also identified within these subcellular fractions utilizing a gel overlay procedure. The two major, specific CaM binding proteins present within rat submandibular cells were a 59-kDa cytosolic protein and a 47-kDa membrane-associated protein.
Further studies on the mechanism of action of leukotrienes and histamine on guinea pig lung parenchyma. Role of calcium, phospholipase and methyltransferase.	The contractile activity of leukotriene B4 (LTB4), leukotriene D4 (LTD4) and histamine on strips of guinea pig lung parenchyma was shown to be dependent on the calcium concentrations of the Krebs solution. The calcium channel blocker verapamil (2.0 to 15 microM) had an additive effect on the inhibitory activity of low calcium (0.1 mM) on contractions of guinea pig parenchyma to leukotrienes and histamine. Cobalt chloride, a divalent cation, also produced dose-dependent reductions of the myotropic activities of LTB4, LTD4 and histamine. An antagonist of calmodulin, trifluoperazine (1-200 microM), dose-dependently inhibited the contractile activity of the three agonists on the parenchyma strip. The IC50 of this compound for inhibition of histamine was much lower (2-3 microM) than the IC50 for inhibition of leukotrienes (75 microM). Valinomycin, a potassium ionophore, also interfere with the contractile activities of leukotrienes and histamine whereas a blocker of sodium channel, tetrodotoxin, had no effect on the activity of these agonists. Furthermore, an inhibitor of methyltransferase, 3-deazaadenosine, significantly diminished the responses of the parenchyma to leukotrienes and histamine. These results confirmed the important role of extracellular and intracellular calcium in the myotropic activity of leukotrienes and histamine in guinea pig lungs and showed that compounds which interfere either directly or indirectly with calcium mobilization into the lung smooth muscles, decreased the tissue responsiveness.
CGS 9343B, a novel, potent, and selective inhibitor of calmodulin activity.	1,3-Dihydro-1-[1-[(4-methyl-4H,6H-pyrrolo[1,2-a][4,1]- benzoxazepin-4-yl)methyl]-4-piperidinyl]-2H-benzimidazol-2-o ne (1:1) maleate was synthesized in six steps from methyl anthranilate and designated CGS 9343B. CGS 9343B inhibited calmodulin-stimulated cAMP phosphodiesterase activity with an IC50 value of 3.3 microM. CGS 9343B was 3.8 times more potent than trifluoperazine (IC50 = 12.7 microM) as an inhibitor of calmodulin activity. CGS 9343B did not inhibit protein kinase C activity at concentrations up to 100 microM, whereas trifluoperazine inhibited protein kinase C activity with an IC50 value of 43.9 microM. CGS 9343B weakly displaced [3H]spiperone from postsynaptic dopamine receptors with an IC50 value of 4.8 microM while the value for trifluoperazine, a potent antipsychotic agent, was 0.018 microM. It is concluded that CGS 9343B is a novel, potent, and selective inhibitor of calmodulin activity. Unlike trifluoperazine, CGS 9343B does not inhibit protein kinase C activity and does not possess potential antidopaminergic activity.
Detection of aspartate kinase in rat liver and its activation by Ca++ and calmodulin.	The enzyme aspartate kinase (EC 2.7.2.4) has been detected in rat liver (animal tissue) for the first time. This enzyme, like the aspartate kinase from bacteria and plants is inhibited by lysine and threonine. Further, the activity of the enzyme is stimulated over two fold by Ca++ and calmodulin and inhibited by EGTA, a Ca++ chelator and trifluoperazine, an anti-calmodulin compound.
Role of second messengers in the regulation of glucagon secretion from isolated rat islets of Langerhans.	The roles of diacylglycerol (DAG), cAMP and Ca2+ in mediating the stimulatory action of arginine on pancreatic A cells have been investigated using phorbol esters, forskolin, a Ca2+ ionophore and trifluoroperazine (TFP). 0.5 microM 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) which stimulated glucagon secretion by approximately 3-fold in the absence of arginine, was unable to enhance arginine-stimulated glucagon secretion. Higher concentrations (1 and 10 microM) of PMA were able to enhance glucagon secretion in the presence of 1.25, 2.5, 5 but not 10 mM arginine. Insulin secretion was enhanced by PMA under all the conditions tested. Arginine (10 and 20 mM)-stimulated secretion of glucagon and insulin were synergistically augmented by 20 microM forskolin. While the effects of forskolin plus PMA on the A cells were additive, the effects of the two agents on the B cells were synergistic. The responses of the A and B cells to arginine required extracellular Ca2+. Secretion of the two hormones was dose-dependently stimulated by A23187. Arginine-stimulated glucagon secretion but not insulin secretion, was dose-dependently inhibited by TFP. These results suggest that proposed cellular second messengers interact differently in the A and B cells, and DAG and Ca2+ may play pivotal roles in mediating the actions of arginine on the A but not B cells; cAMP may play a modulatory role in the A cell response to arginine.
The roles of Ca2+ and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in the regulation of progesterone production by human placental tissue.	The effects of Ca2+ and cAMP on progesterone production by placental tissue were studied. Term placentas obtained from normal pregnant women were perfused with sterile saline to remove blood, and the minced trophoblastic tissue was incubated in vitro. The rate of progesterone secretion by the trophoblastic tissue was 47.5 +/- 5.0 (+/- SE) ng/mg cell protein X h (control) at 450 micrograms low density lipoprotein/mL. The rates of progesterone production and cAMP accumulation were accelerated 3.0- and 1.7-fold, respectively, by 10(-5) M terbutaline, and the terbutaline effect was blocked by the addition of 50 microM N-(6-aminohexyl)5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7) or 50 microM trifluoperazine. Whereas progesterone secretion by placental explants cultured in medium containing low density lipoprotein with 1 microM A23187 (calcium ionophore) reached a rate of 128.5 +/- 8.5 ng/mg cell protein X h, incubation of placental explants with A23187 caused a highly significant, dose-related decrease in terbutaline-stimulated cAMP accumulation in the presence of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Inhibition by A23187 was Ca2+ dependent, since incubation in a Ca2+-free medium with EGTA blocked its effect. Intracellular Ca2+ is apparently necessary for placental progesterone production; enhancement of progesterone production by beta2-stimulation is mediated by intracellular Ca2+ and cAMP.
Evidence for direct effect of tolbutamide on hepatic glycogenolysis induced by Ca2+-dependent hormones.	The effects of tolbutamide and glibenclamide on hepatic glycogenolysis in perfused rat liver were investigated. Tolbutamide per se did not influence glucose output from the liver, but at therapeutic concentrations (about 350 microM) it significantly inhibited the glycogenolysis induced by phenylephrine, vasopressin and angiotensin II, while glibenclamide did not. Neither tolbutamide nor glibenclamide inhibited the glycogenolysis induced by glucagon. Tolbutamide potentiated the inhibitory effect of submaximal concentrations of insulin on glycogenolysis induced by phenylephrine. This effect of tolbutamide was elicitable even in the absence of calcium in the perfusate, and was additive to that of trifluoperazine. However, tolbutamide did not potentiate the inhibitory effect of insulin on glucagon-induced glycogenolysis. Tolbutamide inhibited the glycogenolysis induced by A23187, a calcium ionophore. These results indicate that, in addition to its known effect on insulin secretion, tolbutamide has a direct effect on the liver to inhibit glycogenolysis induced by Ca2+-dependent hormones (catecholamines, vasopressin and angiotensin II) and A23187. Thus, it is likely that tolbutamide inhibits the effect of Ca2+ mobilized by Ca2+-dependent hormones to stimulate glycogenolysis.
Binding of microtubule-associated protein 2 and tau to the intermediate filament reassembled from neurofilament 70-kDa subunit protein. Its regulation by calmodulin.	Two major brain microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs), MAP2 and tau, were found to bind to the intermediate filaments reassembled from neurofilament 70-kDa subunit protein (= 70-kDa filaments). The binding was saturable. The apparent dissociation constant (KD) for the binding of MAP2 to the 70-kDa filaments was estimated to be 4.8 X 10(-7) M, and the maximum binding reached 1 mol of MAP2/approximately 30 mol of 70-kDa protein. The apparent KD for the tau binding was 1.6 X 10(-6) M, and the maximum binding was 1 mol of tau/approximately 3 mol of 70-kDa protein. It was also found that MAP2 and tau did not compete with each other for binding to the 70-kDa filaments. Most interestingly, calmodulin, a ubiquitous Ca2+-binding protein in eukaryotic cells, was found to inhibit the binding of MAP2 and tau to the 70-kDa filaments. The inhibition by calmodulin was regulated by changes in Ca2+ concentration around 10(-6) M, and was canceled by trifluoperazine, a calmodulin inhibitor.
Role of protein kinase C and intracellular calcium mobilization in the induction of macrophage tumoricidal activity by interferon-gamma.	These studies were designed to test the hypothesis that changes in intracellular Ca2+ levels and activation of the calcium ion- and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C were required for the induction of macrophage tumoricidal activity by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Phenothiazines and R24571, known antagonists of calcium-binding proteins and therefore nonspecific inhibitors of protein kinase C, blocked in a dose-dependent manner the induction of macrophage cytocidal activity by either natural or recombinant IFN-gamma. Macrophages depleted of intracellular Ca2+ by chelation with Quin 2, were also unresponsive to IFN-gamma. These treatments effected neither the binding of IFN-gamma to its cell surface receptor nor the normal intracellular processing of IFN-gamma. Activators of protein kinase C (such as phorbol esters) and Ca2+ ionophores when added alone did not effect the activation state of the macrophage population. However, macrophages exposed to both drugs in combination were elevated into the primed activation state such that in the presence of a second signal (lipopolysaccharide or heat killed Listeria monocytogenes), the cells were triggered to express full levels of tumoricidal activity. The capacity of phorbol esters to induce cellular activation correlated with their ability to bind and to activate protein kinase C. No synergistic effect was observed between IFN-gamma and protein kinase C activators and/or Ca2+ ionophores, indicating that the drugs could only prime and could not trigger macrophages for tumor cell killing. These results thus support the concept that protein kinase C activation and mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ are essential steps in the pathway of IFN-gamma-dependent induction of non-specific tumoricidal activity in macrophages.
Phenothiazines increase active sodium transport across the isolated toad skin.	Fluphenazine (FPZ) and trifluoperazine (TFP) are phenothiazine derivatives commonly used as antipsychotic tranquilizers. Their mechanism of action is incompletely understood. Epidermal addition of each drug promoted biphasic short-circuit current (SCC) changes across isolated pelvic skin of Bufo arenarum toads. By means of radiotracers fluxes, SCC was found to be given by the algebraic sum of net sodium and chloride transport. A readily stimulant effect was detected a low concentrations (from 1 X 10(-6) mol/l up to 1 X 10(-4) mol/l for FPZ, from 1 X 10(-5) mol/l up to 3.2 X 10(-4) mol/l for TFP) above which inhibition prevailed. Dermal FPZ also stimulated SCC. A higher concentration and time threshold were required. Epidermal 1 X 10(-5) mol/l FPZ stimulation was partially reversible, with a diminished membrane resistance and enhancement of sodium influx, without alteration of sodium efflux or net chloride transport. It could be prevented by amiloride pretreatment, or diminished by dermal sodium removal. Variation of epidermal bulk pH from 5.8 to 8.7 demonstrated that ionized and nonionized molecules contribute to FPZ's effect. Our results suggest that SCC stimulation elicited by FPZ and TFP may be a consequence of direct or indirect modifications on apical sodium conductance.
Thrombin-induced transfer of arachidonic acid in human platelets is not inhibited by trifluoperazine.	Human platelets have been shown to contain a Ca++- and CoA-independent transacylase enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of arachidonic acid from phosphatidylcholine (PC) to lysoplasmenylethanolamine. It has been suggested that this route may represent a major source for released arachidonic acid in stimulated platelets. In this study, we have shown using arachidonic-labelled human platelets that the thrombin-induced activation of a transacylase reaction was not affected by concentrations of trifluoperazine (TFP) (15 micrograms/2 X 10(9) cells) which abolished the accumulation of free [3H]arachidonic acid in the presence of the cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase inhibitor BW755C. TFP, at this concentration failed to block the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine (PC) completely and had no effect on the increased radioactivity seen in total phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) (160% of control after 4 min of incubation). These results suggest that the transacylase pathway activated in response to thrombin is not likely dependent on calcium. As TFP blocks effectively both the accumulation of free [3H]arachidonic acid and the mass of arachidonic acid without affecting the transfer of this fatty acid from PC to PE in thrombin-stimulated human platelets, it is very unlikely that the transacylation pathway represents a major source of release arachidonic acid. Based on these findings, we conclude that the above pathway may be primarily involved in the turnover of plasmenylethanolamine lipids in stimulated human platelets.
Calcium-calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase in developing pancreas.	To implicate the Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) in the secretory response of pancreatic acinar cells to postnatal neurohumoral stimulation, we examined enzymatic protein kinase activity during pancreatic development. CDPK was investigated by measuring the phosphorylation of endogenous proteins and an exogenous substrate, synapsin I. Ca2+-calmodulin (CaM)-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins as well as synapsin I progressively increased in pancreatic supernatants from rats of increasing age. When compared with embryonic pancreas (1 day before birth), Ca2+-CaM-stimulated protein kinase activity increased two- and sixfold in neonatal (1 day after birth) and adult pancreas (60 days after birth), respectively, when normalized to protein content. To further characterize CDPK activity, soluble fractions prepared from embryonic, neonatal, and adult pancreas were separated by gel filtration chromatography. CDPK activities from embryonic and neonatal pancreas were contained in fractions of relative molecular weights (Mr) less than 200,000. In contrast, kinase activity from adult pancreas was predominantly comprised of a Mr approximately 550,000 species that coeluted with a type II CDPK. Increasing amounts of a Mr = 51,000 CaM-binding protein as a function of increasing age were consistent with the developmental appearance of the CaM-binding subunit of type II Ca2+-CaM-stimulated protein kinase. CaM levels increased in parallel with total Ca2+-CaM-stimulated protein kinase activity. Coordinate enhancement of type II CDPK activity and secretagogue responsiveness during pancreatic maturation may suggest a role for this enzyme in the secretory process.
Effects of calmodulin inhibitors on rabbit synoviocyte phospholipase A2.	The effect of calmodulin inhibitors on synoviocyte phospholipase A2 activity was evaluated. Cells were incubated with [3H]arachidonic acid after 24 hours to label phospholipids. [3H]prostaglandin E2 synthesis was stimulated by Salmonella minnesota lipopolysaccharide (100 micrograms/ml). Trifluoperazine, 35 microM, reduced lipopolysaccharide-stimulated [3H]prostaglandin E2 synthesis by 50%. In sonicated suspensions of cells, calcium-dependent phospholipase A2 activity was inhibited by trifluoperazine 3-100 microM and by compound 48/80 (3 micrograms/ml). These agents inhibit calmodulin-dependent enzyme activity. The addition of calmodulin, 1 or 2.5 microM, to compound 48/80-treated suspensions reversed this inhibition in a dose-dependent manner. Agents which inhibit calmodulin-dependent enzymes can reversibly inhibit synoviocyte phospholipase A2 and thus prostaglandin E2 production.
Inhibition of calcium and calmodulin-dependent phosphodiesterase activity in rats by capsaicin.	Capsaicin, reported to elevate hormone sensitive lipase (HSL), is also found to inhibit the Ca++ and calmodulin-dependent cAMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity in adipose tissue of rats, fed high fat diet. The dependence of the enzyme activity on Ca++ and calmodulin in vitro, in control rats, is shown by its substantial lowering in the presence of EGTA and inhibition by trifluoperazine (TFP) (IC50 between 10-20 microM). This enzyme activity is also inhibited by both red pepper extract (80% inhibition with 50 microliter) and capsaicin (IC50 between 0.3-1 microM) in a dose dependent manner. Capsaicin has been found to inhibit Ca++-dependent PDE activity by 60% in the test rats. Enzyme inhibition in vivo, due to capsaicin, was overcome by addition of calmodulin to the assay system. Inclusion of fluphenazine or capsaicin in assay inhibited not only the calmodulin-restored enzyme activity from test rats but also that of control rats. These results suggest a possible mechanism for the stimulation of lipolytic activity by capsaicin in vivo.
Effects of the anti-calmodulin drugs calmidazolium and trifluoperazine on 45Ca transport in plasmalemmal vesicles from gastric smooth muscle.	The anti-calmodulin drugs calmidazolium (CMZ) and trifluoperazine (TFP) were shown to have a number of effects on 45Ca transport by plasmalemmal vesicles from gastric smooth muscle. Although these compounds produced the expected dose-dependent inhibition of the plasmalemmal ATP-dependent Ca2+ transport system, they also evoked a Ca2+ release comparable to that observed in the presence of the Ca2+ ionophore, ionomycin. This increased transmembrane Ca2+ flux was so large that it accounted for much of the apparent decrease in 45Ca uptake produced by these agents. Thus, direct effects of CMZ and TFP on ATP-dependent 45Ca uptake could only be reliably assessed for brief (less than or equal to 30 seconds) drug exposures. The explanation for the observed effects of CMZ and TFP on membrane Ca2+ permeability is unclear. The increased transmembrane Ca2+ flux may reflect nonspecific effects on membrane permeability or it may reflect a specific interaction of the anticalmodulin drugs with a Ca2+ release channel or with the Ca2+ transport ATPase. In any case, these results suggest the need for caution in the design and interpretation of studies using both CMZ and TFP as anticalmodulin agents.
Calmodulin antagonist effects on GnRH and secretogogue-induced release of bovine LH.	A study was performed to determine the possible role of calmodulin (CaM) in regulating gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-induced luteinizing hormone (LH) release from the bovine pituitary using three structurally unrelated calmodulin antagonists. Primary calf anterior pituitary cell cultures (3 X 10(5)/well) were treated with either LH secretogogue (GnRH, 100 ng/ml; A23187, 2.5 microM; theophylline, 1 mM; prostaglandin E2, 1 microM; estradiol, 25 ng/ml; or KCl, 25 mM; final concentrations) or secretogogue plus CaM inhibitor in 1 ml Hanks' balanced salt solution plus 10 mM N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid for 6 h. Significant (P less than 0.01) inhibition of GnRH- and A23187-stimulated LH release was obtained with calmidazolium (CMZ; 1-10 nM) and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7; 1-10 microM). Both CMZ (10 nM) and W-7 (10 microM) significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) LH release by all of the other agents tested as well. In contrast, trifluoperazine (TFP; 0.1-100 microM) had no effect against most of the secretogogues tested. These results suggest that GnRH-stimulated LH release is in part a Ca2+-CaM-dependent process and may implicate a common CaM-dependent mechanism for LH release in general. The data also demonstrate a marked dichotomy in response between the phenothiazine, TFP, and other CaM antagonists in the calf pituitary.
Enhancement of the activity of immunotoxins made with either ricin A chain or Pseudomonas exotoxin in human ovarian and epidermoid carcinoma cell lines.	The present study evaluates whether the in vitro activity of immunotoxins can be enhanced by verapamil or by various antagonists of calmodulin (dansylcadaverine, trifluoperazine, chlorpromazine). The following immunotoxins made with either Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE), recombinant ricin A chain (rRTA), or ricin A chain (RTA) were used: HB21-PE and 454A12-rRTA that both recognize the human transferrin receptor; and 260F9-rRTA and 454C11-RTA that both react with human ovarian and breast cancer cells. The cytotoxicity of these immunotoxins was determined in human ovarian carcinoma cell lines and KB cells. Verapamil, that was demonstrated previously to enhance the cell-killing activity of PE immunotoxins, enhanced the activity of several ricin A chain immunotoxins, including 454A12-rRTA, 260F9-rRTA, and 454C11-RTA. Comparing 50% inhibitory dose values for inhibition of protein synthesis by 454A12-rRTA, enhancement ranged from 2- to greater than 25-fold, was dependent on the concentration of verapamil, and was greatest at short incubation times. In addition, the cytotoxicity of HB21-PE and of selected RTA immunotoxins was increased up to 30-fold by the addition of various calmodulin antagonists. The enhancing drugs did not decrease the specificity of the immunotoxins.
Uptake of Ca2+ driven by the membrane potential in energy-depleted yeast cells.	The time-course of 45Ca2+ influx into yeast cells was measured under non-steady-state conditions obtained by preincubating the cells in a Ca2+-free medium containing glucose and buffer. Two components were distinguished: a saturable component which reached a steady-state after about 40 s of 45Ca2+ uptake and a linear increase in cellular 45Ca2+ starting after 60-90 s. Using differential extraction methods it was determined that after 20 s of uptake, 45Ca2+ was localized in the cytoplasmic pool and in bound form with no 45Ca2+ in the vacuole. After 3 min most of the cellular 45Ca2+ was concentrated in the vacuole and in bound form. The initial rate of 45Ca2+ uptake under non-steady-state conditions thus measured 45Ca2+ transport across the plasma membrane without interference by vacuolar uptake. The effect of membrane potential (delta psi) on this transport was investigated in cells depleted of ATP. A high delta psi was produced by preincubating the cells with trifluoperazine (TFP) and subsequently washing the cells free from TFP. Substantial 45Ca2+ influx was measured in the absence of metabolic energy in cells with a high delta psi. Below a threshold value of -69.5 mV the logarithms of the initial rate of 45Ca2+ influx and of the steady-state level of the first component were linear with respect to delta psi. It is suggested that 45Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane is mediated by channels which open when delta psi is below a threshold value. The results indicated that Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane was driven electrophoretically by delta psi.
External ATP-induced passive permeability change and cell lysis of cultured transformed cells: action in serum-containing growth media.	External ATP causes a marked increase in the passive permeability to phosphorylated metabolites in several types of transformed cells in alkaline medium containing low concentrations of Ca2+, but not in untransformed cells. Such increased membrane permeability with external ATP was also observed in B16 melanoma cells at pH 7.4-7.5 in both Tris-buffered saline and a growth medium containing 10% calf serum and divalent ions at normal concentrations, although a higher concentration of ATP was required. The permeability change in the growth medium was significantly enhanced by calmodulin-interacting drugs, such as trifluoperazine (TFP), N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W7) and chlorpromazine (CPZ). As expected, prolonged exposure of the cells to ATP in the serum-containing medium led to cell lysis. This ATP-dependent cell lysis was observed only in several transformed cell lines, and not in untransformed mouse fibroblasts. These results indicate that the effect of ATP on the membrane permeability in transformed cells is elicited under the physiological conditions and this would be useful in some limited way for cancer chemotherapy management.
In vitro effects of calmodulin antagonists on macrophage function in the posterior necrotic zone of the chick wing.	Excised tissues from the prospective posterior necrotic zone (pPNZ) of the stage 21 chick wing were cultured in the presence of the calmodulin antagonists/protein kinase C inhibitors trifluoperazine (TFP) or chlorpromazine (CPZ). The appearance of cell death in vitro was not affected by the drugs. Macrophages differentiated normally and were competent to engulf debris. Lysosomal fusion with phagosomes and the digestion of most debris also occurred in the presence of the drugs. However, the macrophages were unable to process internalized cell membranes properly and continued accumulating membrane until they were grossly distended. The effect was reversible upon removal of the drugs. The results suggest a role for calmodulin and/or protein kinase C in the proper recycling of internalized membrane in embryonic macrophages.
In vitro synergistic activity of ketoconazole with trifluoperazine and with chlorpromazine against medically important yeasts.	Combination of ketoconazole and trifluoperazine or chlorpromazine yielded an in vitro synergistic effect on growth inhibition of Candida albicans, Torulopsis glabrata, Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida parapsilosis and Candida tropicalis. The optimal pH range for the synergistic effects was 7.0-7.6. At pH 5.0 the drug combination was antagonistic. (Application for patent protection has been filed).
Effects of phenothiazines and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide on rat colonic absorption of cefmetazole.	Rat colonic absorption of cefmetazole was increased significantly by calmodulin inhibitors such as phenothiazines and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7) when they were coadministered at a concentration between 1 and 100 microM. The bioavailability of cefmetazole, determined by area under the blood concentration curve method, increased 20 to 30% by the coadministration of calmodulin inhibitors. It is speculated that the enhancing action of agents on rat colonic absorption of cefmetazole takes place by a paracellular route and coadministration of sodium ion increases their actions.
Inhibition of protein synthesis prolongs Ca2+-mediated reduction of K+ currents in molluscan neurons.	Elevated intracellular Ca2+ concentration within the Hermissenda type B cell has previously been shown to cause transient reduction of both the early K+ current IA and the delayed, Ca2+-dependent K+ current ICa2+-K+, a reduction that is more permanent with classical conditioning. Other earlier experiments suggested that Ca2+-mediated reduction of K+ currents initially involves the dual activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent and Ca2+/lipid-dependent protein kinases. In the present study, voltage-clamp conditions that cause substantial increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration (i.e., a Ca2+ "load") were used to produce IA and ICa2+-K+ reduction with and without the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin or cycloheximide or the control substance deacetylanisomycin in the bathing medium. Anisomycin (100 microM) and cycloheximide (100 microM) caused no significant change of resting membrane potential, holding current, or the non-voltage-dependent "leak" current. However, inhibition of protein synthesis prevented recovery from Ca2+-mediated K+-current reduction. This effect resembled the effect of injecting purified Ca2+-dependent kinases and was blocked by the presence of trifluoperazine in the bathing medium. Activation of protein kinase C with a water-soluble phorbol ester caused marked reduction of protein synthesis in Hermissenda neurons as monitored by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Synthesis of new proteins therefore may be important for reversal of initial steps during memory storage, and Ca2+-activated phosphorylation pathways may initiate long-term changes by turning off (as well as by turning on) the synthesis of particular proteins.
Inhibition of T3 mediated T-cell proliferation by Ca2+-channel blockers and inhibitors of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent kinase.	The potential roles of Ca2+ ions in the response of T lymphocytes to stimulation with monoclonal antisera to the T3 antigen were investigated by means of pharmacological agents that predominantly inhibit the flux of Ca2+ ions into cells (verapamil, nifedipine) or the activity of Ca2+-dependent kinases (trifluoperazine, polymyxin B). As assessed by uptake of [3H]thymidine, proliferation induced with anti-T3 +/- recombinant IL-2 at 72 h was inhibited by greater than 80% in the presence of nifedipine at 50 microM, and almost completely arrested (greater than 95% inhibition) with the other agents at the same concentration. Further quantitative assays of the effects of polymyxin B and trifluoperazine on C-kinase labelling of exogenous substrate showed a major reduction with both agents, but inhibition was substantially greater with polymyxin B that with trifluoperazine (IC50 = 14 and 70 microM respectively). These results were confirmed by qualitative assessment of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent phosphorylation of endogenous substrates, which demonstrated major phosphoproteins of MW 56,000, 52,000, 43,000, and 20,000, and dose-dependent reduction in labelling in the presence of polymyxin B. Similar results were obtained under more physiological conditions in intact cells labelled with 32P orthophosphate. These findings indicate several possible roles for Ca2+ in T-cell activation, and several possible levels of activity, including modulation of calmodulin-dependent kinases and effects on Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent kinases and Ca2+ channels.
Calmodulin antagonists inhibit latch bridges in detergent skinned swine carotid media.	Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of the 20,000 apparent molecular weight (Mr) myosin light chain (MLC) is widely believed to be the primary regulator of smooth muscle stress development. Stress maintenance, however, has been hypothesized to be the result of a Ca2+-dependent state called latch, defined as stress maintenance by slowly cycling, dephosphorylated latch bridges. This study was designed to examine the role of calmodulin in the Ca2+ dependence of latch. Swine carotid medial fibers were detergent skinned with Triton X-100 and MLC phosphorylation levels were measured by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Experiments were performed in which calmodulin antagonists, W-7 or trifluoperazine (TFP), were used to prevent Ca2+-dependent contractions or to relax previously contracted muscle strips. Both protocols resulted in similar decreases in stress with MLC phosphorylation levels correlating to the level of stress under all conditions. In another series of experiments, the skinned fibers were first contracted with Ca2+ and ATP and then exposed to Ca2+ and cytidine 5'-triphosphate (CTP). This resulted in stress maintenance with basal levels of MLC phosphorylation. W-7 relaxed Ca2+ and CTP maintained stress in a concentration-dependent manner. The potency of W-7 for relaxation of the CTP maintained stress was similar to that for inhibition of the ATP developed stress determined in the first set of experiments. The results demonstrate that calmodulin antagonists inhibit stress associated with MLC phosphorylation and also stress independent of MLC phosphorylation. This suggests that a calmodulin-like, Ca2+-binding protein may be important for latch bridge attachment.
Effect of anticalmodulin drugs on the action of yeast alpha factor pheromone.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha factor pheromone arrest growth of cells of the a mating type (MAT a) at the G1 phase of the cell cycle. When treatment of MAT a cells with alpha factor was carried out in the presence of anticalmodulin drugs, trifluoperazine or chlorpromazine, the extent of cell growth arrest induced by alpha factor was reduced or even became undetectable. These results lend support to the hypothesis that calmodulin plays a role as mediator in the action of alpha factor on MAT a cells.
Intestinal brush border calmodulin: key role in the regulation of NaCl transport in Giardia lamblia infected mice.	Activity of calmodulin and uptake of Ca2+, Na+ and Cl- was studied in control and Giardia lamblia infected mice. The activity of calmodulin was found to be significantly increased (p less than 0.001) in the experimental group as compared to control group. The uptake of Ca2+ increased significantly (p less than 0.001) while that of Na+ and Cl- decreased (p less than 0.001) in brush border membrane (BBM) vesicles from experimental group as compared to control group. In the presence of calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine (TFP), the transport of Na+ and Cl- increased significantly (p less than 0.05) as compared to in the absence of inhibitor while transport of Ca2+ remained unaltered.
Alterations of the FMLP-induced Ca2+ efflux from human monocytes with aging.	The Ca2+ with the calmodulin system plays a major role in the receptor-induced intracellular biochemical events. Thus, as in our previous studies, we found an altered postreceptorial coupling in the case of elderly, we were interested to elucidate the Ca2+ transport in the case of healthy young (less than 25 years) and aged (greater than 65 years) subjects. The chemotactic peptide FMLP was used for receptor stimulation. Our data show that both spontaneous and FMLP-triggered Ca2+ extrusion measured on monocyte monolayers is decreased with aging. The FMLP-triggered Ca2+ extrusion nevertheless did not occur through the TFP-sensitive pathway. These alterations of Ca2+ transport seem to indicate an impaired Ca2+-calmodulin function in monocytes with aging.
Characteristics of calmodulin binding to purified human lymphocyte plasma membranes.	We have explored the role of calmodulin in plasma membrane-related phenomena in lymphocyte activation by measurement of [125I]calmodulin binding to highly purified plasma membrane of human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Calcium-dependent calmodulin binding to lymphocyte membrane was found to reach equilibrium within 5 min of incubation at 37 degrees C and to be saturable and specific. A single class of high affinity-binding sites was identified, with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 1 to 3 X 10(-8) M and a total binding capacity (Bt) of 1 to 2 pmol/mg membrane protein. The free calcium concentration necessary for half-maximal binding was 100 to 300 nM. This was strikingly similar to the cytoplasmic-free calcium activity [Ca2+]i measured by the Quin-2 fluorescence technique, particularly after stimulation with phytomitogens. Calmodulin binding was inhibitable by trifluoperazine (TFP), W-7, and chloropramazine, all of which are calmodulin antagonists. The concentration of TFP that caused 50% inhibition of lymphocyte proliferative responses to phytomitogens was found to be identical to the concentration of TFP which causes 50% inhibition of calmodulin binding to lymphocyte plasma membrane. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by gel overlay and autoradiography with iodinated calmodulin revealed five calcium-dependent, TFP-inhibitable, calmodulin-binding polypeptides.
Trifluoperazine activates and releases latent ATP-generating enzymes associated with the synaptic plasma membrane.	Neurone-specific enolase (NSE) and the brain form of creatine phosphokinase (CPK-BB) were previously found to be present in rat synaptosomal plasma membranes (SPM) using two-dimensional gel (2-D gel) and peptide analysis; enzymatic activities of these and of pyruvate kinase (PK), all involved in ATP generation, were shown to be "cryptic" unless the SPM were treated with Triton X-100. We now show that enzymatic activation also occurs when the SPM are treated with trifluoperazine (TFP). TFP activation occurred even when the enzymes were membrane associated, showing that solubilization was not responsible for "unmasking" the enzyme activities. When TFP treatment was performed at alkaline instead of neutral pH, NSE and CPK-BB were released as well as PK, nonneuronal enolase, and aldolase which were identified by 2-D gel and tryptic peptide analysis. Other proteins released included calmodulin, actin, and the 70-kilodalton heat-shock cognate protein. Tubulin, synapsin I, and a 35-kilodalton basic protein were largely unaffected. The latter was identified as the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase on the basis of 2-D gel and peptide analyses and subsequent partial sequencing of a rat brain cDNA coding for the same protein. TFP treatment is thus useful for activating latent enzymes as well as for distinguishing enzymes that have a different disposition on the membrane.
Ca2+-calmodulin regulates the induction and expression of macrophage cytotoxicity.	Ca2+-activated calmodulin (CAM) is known to regulate cellular responses of diverse cell types to external stimuli. To examine the effects of Ca2+ influx and CAM on macrophage (MP) cytotoxicity, we used 51Cr-labeled cells as targets and in vivo or in vitro activated MPs from C57 BL/6 or BALB/c mice as effectors in a 16-h cytotoxicity assay. MPs activated in vivo by administration of vaccinia virus or in vitro with lymphokine (LK) were cytotoxic for a variety of tumor cell lines, including SV3T3, but not for normal 3T3 cells. Addition of verapamil (0.1 mM), a Ca2+ channel blocker, to MPs activated in vivo by vaccinia virus markedly reduced their cytotoxicity for SV3T3 cells. This correlated with an inhibition of Ca2+ uptake by MPs, as measured by 45Ca influx. Chlorpromazine (20 microM), trifluoperazine (20 microM), and W13 (75 microM), inhibitors of CAM activity, also suppressed MP cytotoxicity for SV3T3 cells when added to the assay, suggesting that Ca2+-activated CAM is an integral component in expression of MP cytotoxicity. To further explore the mechanism of MP cytotoxicity, supernatants from activated MPs treated with various pharmacological agents were examined for cytotoxicity. Vaccinia-activated MPs released a soluble factor(s) that was cytotoxic for SV3T3 cells. Resident MPs cultured under the same condition produced no significant cytotoxic activity. As observed with direct MP cytotoxicity, addition of a Ca2+ channel blocker or CAM inhibitors to cultured activated MPs markedly reduced the cytotoxic activity of the supernatants, suggesting an active secretory process. The requirement for Ca2+ and CAM in the expression of MP cytotoxicity was confirmed in an in vitro MP activation system. Resident cultured MPs activated by an LK preparation were reduced in their tumoricidal capability when verapamil or CAM inhibitors were added to the cytotoxicity assay. This correlated with a reduction in lytic activity of the MP culture supernatants. Further, addition of verapamil or CAM inhibitors to resident MP cultures markedly reduced the induction of tumoricidal MPs by LK, suggesting that Ca2+ and CAM are necessary for both the induction and the expression of MP cytotoxicity. Suppression of cytotoxicity of in vitro activated MP cell line B6MP102 with verapamil and CAM inhibitors confirmed that the MP was the cytotoxic cell being modulated by Ca2+-activated CAM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Chronic trifluoperazine treatment does not induce lipid peroxidation in the rat cortex.	Rats received continuous chronic trifluoperazine hydrochloride (4.4-4.9 mg/kg/day) treatment for 15 months via their drinking water. Drug treatment did not alter the content of polyunsaturated fatty acids in the cerebral cortex when compared to age-matched control animals. Similarly, there was no change in basal levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) when measured by a fluorimetric or spectrophotometric technique. Incubation of cortical homogenates in air, or with FeSO4 plus ascorbic acid or H2O2 plus FeSO4, stimulated MDA production to the same extent in tissue from drug-treated and control animals. The chronic administration of trifluoperazine to rats does not appear to promote lipid peroxidation as has been suggested for haloperidol.
Effect of chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine on cytoskeletal components and mitochondria in cultured mammalian cells.	Antipsychotic drugs such as chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine have been implicated to mediate their action by inhibiting calmodulin, the general calcium regulatory protein in eukaryotic cells. We observed that both these drugs were cytotoxic to different mammalian cell types at concentrations two- to three-fold lower than those required to inhibit calmodulin-dependent phosphodiesterase activity. These drugs also caused shrinkage and rounding of chicken embryo fibroblast cells without affecting any of the cytoskeletal components, viz. microtubules, microfilaments and intermediate filaments. However, at physiological concentrations of these drugs, a major change was observed in mitochondria which assumed rounded and swollen shapes and concentrated towards the perinuclear region of cells. These studies provide evidence that in contrast to earlier reports, cytoskeletal components are not the primary targets of these drugs. It is suggested that mitochondria may be one of the first structures to be affected by these drugs and the consequent energy depletion may lead to the other observed effects.
Trifluoperazine inhibits ovarian mitochondrial side-chain cleavage enzyme activity in the absence of calcium.	In a previous report we described the inhibitory effect of trifluoperazine (TFP) on steroidogenesis in avian granulosa cells. To clarify the possible site of action of TFP we measured the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (CSCC) activity in a mitochondrial preparation of granulosa cells isolated from mature and developing ovarian follicles. Using a calcium free medium, TFP inhibited CSCC in a dose related manner with an IC50 of 50 microM. Kinetic parameters (apparent Km and Vmax) obtained in the presence of TFP are indicative of uncompetitive inhibition of CSCC. Moreover, enzyme activity increased during follicular maturation while the efficacy of TFP was similar in both young and mature follicles. Because the inhibitory effects of TFP were manifest in medium from which calcium was omitted, it is suggested that the drug acts independently of the calcium-calmodulin system to suppress CSCC activity.
Stimulation by trifluoperazine of p-aminohippurate accumulation in rat kidney cortical slices.	The effects of trifluoperazine and another phenothiazine, chlorpromazine, on p-aminohippurate (PAH) transport in rat kidney cortical slices were examined. Increasing concentrations of trifluoperazine up to 0.1 mM progressively stimulated PAH accumulation in the slices, but a higher concentration of trifluoperazine (0.3 mM) did not cause stimulation. Chlorpromazine also had biphasic effects on PAH accumulation. Both drugs had biphasic effects on hypotonic hemolysis as well, i.e., they protected the erythrocytes at low concentrations, and lysed them at high ones. The effect of trifluoperazine and chlorpromazine on the kinetics of PAH accumulation was to increase Vmax, while the apparent Km remained constant. The efflux of PAH from the slices was significantly decreased by these antipsychotic drugs. The stimulation by trifluoperazine of PAH accumulation was blocked by tetraethylammonium. These results suggest that the antipsychotic drug, when taken up or adsorbed by the slices, stimulates PAH accumulation and that such stimulation may arise at least in part because of membrane stabilization.
Does the binding of cyclosporine to calmodulin result in immunosuppression?	The cyclosporines are a family of cyclic endecapeptides that cause a profound suppression of primary immune stimulation both in vitro and in vivo. Recently, the regulatory protein calmodulin (CaM) has been implicated as a target for cyclosporin A (CsA) binding. This study utilized two less-active isomers of CsA to evaluate the specificity and biological significance of CaM binding. The three cyclosporines exhibited equivalent in vitro binding to CaM, regardless of immunosuppressive activity. Furthermore, CaM-dependent enzyme systems were inhibited equally by active and inactive cyclosporines, but only at concentrations 100 times those necessary to block lymphocyte activation. Thus the exquisite immunosuppressive stereospecificity displayed by cyclosporine isomers is not reflected in the binding to and inhibition of CaM, suggesting that inhibition of CaM-dependent processes is not sufficient to explain the immunosuppressive activity of CsA.
Effect of calmodulin antagonists on hypoxia and reoxygenation damage in isolated rabbit hearts.	The effect of calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine (2.5 X 10(-7) M and 2.5 X 10(-6) M) and R 24571 (10(-8) M and 10(-7) M) on Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts subjected to 180 min hypoxia and 30 min reoxygenation was studied. Coronary flow, force of contraction, oxygen consumption and release of lactate, noradrenaline and LDH were measured. Both drugs were found to reduce some of the deleterious consequences of hypoxia, i.e., they caused: marked reduction in the hypoxic LDH release; reduction in hypoxic contracture; increased recovery of active tension, oxygen consumption and coronary flow upon reoxygenation as compared to those in the untreated controls. The drugs prevented reoxygenation-induced LDH release in the drug-pretreated hearts and had no effect when given only during reoxygenation. This suggests that the drugs do not prevent reoxygenation damage as such, but only some changes developing during hypoxia, which make myocardium vulnerable to the reoxygenation damage. Although other interpretations are possible (e.g., the effects are related to the membrane stabilizing action of the drugs), our data are consistent with the hypothesis that a calmodulin-sensitive process is involved in the hypoxia damage of the myocardium.
Identification of calmodulin in new-born rat calvaria.	The extract of new-born rat calvaria was chromatographed on DEAE-cellulose. Calmodulin activity was eluted at 0.3 and 0.4 M NaCl and markedly inhibited by trifluoperazine and W-7, calmodulin antagonists. The fractions with calmodulin activity contained a protein the electrophoretic migration of which on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel was accelerated by Ca2+. Its apparent molecular weight was about 18 or 20K in the presence or absence of Ca2+, respectively. With 45Ca-autoradiography, the protein was shown to have a high affinity for Ca2+. Thus calmodulin could be readily identified in new-born rat calvaria.
Localization of vitamin D-dependent active Ca2+ transport in rat duodenum and relation to CaBP.	Vitamin D-replete (+D) and vitamin D-deficient (-D) rats received by intraperitoneal injection varying amounts of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, and 4 h (+D) or 9 h (-D) later everted duodenal sacs were prepared to evaluate active calcium transport, i.e., the amount of calcium found in the serosal fluid. At the same time, duodenal calcium-binding protein (CaBP) content was measured. Calcium transport was a close positive function of CaBP content. It was not detectable when CaBP content was zero and increased linearly without plateauing as CaBP content increased to 100 nmol calcium bound/g mucosa. Trifluoperazine (TFP) inhibited active calcium transport in a concentration-dependent manner. Experiments using vesicles prepared from brush-border or basolateral membranes indicated that TFP inhibited the calcium-extrusion process, with virtually no effect on calcium entry. It is concluded that vitamin D exerts its major regulation of active calcium transport in the rat duodenum via CaBP on transport steps beyond brush-border entry.
Biochemical signal transmitted by Fc receptor for immunoglobulin G2a of a murine macrophage-like cell line, P388D1: mode of activation of adenylate cyclase mediated by immunoglobulin G2a binding proteins.	The effects of immunoglobulin G2a binding proteins isolated from P388D1 cells on adenylate cyclase of cyc- cells were investigated to explore a potential role of Fc gamma 2a receptor in the activation of the adenylate cyclase system. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) binding proteins obtained from the detergent lysate of P388D1 cells by affinity chromatography on IgG-Sepharose were separated into two fractions (denoted as IgG-B1 and IgG-B2) by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration in the presence of 6 M urea. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate revealed that the major component in the IgG-B1 fraction was a protein of molecular weight near 50 000, whereas the IgG-B2 fraction contained two major components of molecular weight near 25 000 and 17 000. Both IgG-B1 and -B2 proteins can be inserted into liposome consisting of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine. Liposomes containing IgG-B1 proteins effectively inhibited EA2a, but not EA2b, rosetting by either S49 or P388D1 cells, suggesting their proper orientation within liposome, whereas IgG-B2-containing liposome failed to do so. Simultaneous fusion of the liposomes containing IgG-B1 and -B2 proteins with guanine nucleotide binding stimulatory (G/F) protein/Fc gamma 2aR-deficient cyc- cells resulted in the formation of the hybrid membrane whose adenylate cyclase responds to immune complex formed with IgG2a-subclass antibody (IC2a) by about a 2.7-fold increase in the activity over the control (hybrid membrane between cyc- cells and liposome containing no protein). The response appeared to be specific, since IC2b failed to stimulate the enzymatic activity of this hybrid membrane. Furthermore, IgG-B1 and -B2 proteins were able to confer their activating effects on the enzyme only in concert, since the fusion of liposomes containing either type of protein alone with cyc- cells did not result in the activation of adenylate cyclase of cyc- membrane. IgG-B1 and -B2 proteins could also confer their activating effects in concert to the enzyme in cholate-solubilized forms. Such activation was dependent on the concentration of IC2a, suppressed by the chelating agent ethylene glycol bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, and significantly inhibited by trifluoperazine, suggesting potential involvement of Ca2+ and calmodulin in the activating process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Modulation of adriamycin and N-trifluoroacetyladriamycin-14-valerate induced effects on cell cycle traverse and cytotoxicity in P388 mouse leukemia cells by caffeine and the calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine.	1,3,7-Trimethylxanthine "caffeine" (CAF) is reported to induce a differential effect on the cytotoxicity of the DNA intercalators actinomycin-D versus Adriamycin (ADR). In the present study the effect of caffeine and/or trifluoperazine in modulating cell cycle traverse, drug accumulation, and cytotoxicity of anthracyclines was evaluated. The survival in soft agar of P388 mouse leukemia cells treated with ADR (0.05-0.25 micrograms/ml) alone for 1 h was 1.2- to 3-fold lower when the cells were incubated for 24 h in drug-free medium versus medium supplemented with 2 mM CAF. In contrast, for P388 cells treated with ADR in the presence of 2 mM CAF for 1 h and subsequently incubated for 24 h in the absence or presence of 2 mM CAF, cell killed based on colony formation in soft agar was 2- to 20-fold lower than in ADR-treated cells never exposed to 2 mM CAF. In cells treated continuously for 24 h with ADR (0.01-0.05 micrograms/ml) or the DNA nonbinding ADR analogue N-trifluoro-acetyladriamycin-14-valerate (AD32) (0.05 and 0.1 micrograms/ml) the survival in soft agar was 3- to 20-fold higher in the presence versus the absence of 2 mM CAF. The decreased cytotoxicity in cells treated with ADR or AD32 in the presence of CAF was accompanied by a significant reduction in the accumulation of cells in G2. However, in cells treated with ADR or AD32 in the presence of 2 mM CAF plus 5 microM trifluoperazine the decreased G2 accumulation was not accompanied by a reduction in anthracycline cytotoxicity. The modulation by CAF of ADR and AD32 cytotoxicity did not correlate with decreased cellular ADR and AD32 accumulation. Results from this study indicate that CAF markedly reduces the cytotoxicity of ADR or AD32 and trifluoperazine circumvents the effects of CAF.
Calmodulin and acetylcholine receptor clustering in embryonic chick myotubes.	We have used the calmodulin antagonists, trifluoperazine (TFP) and calmidazolium, to study the potential role of this protein in the movement of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) to and from the myotube membrane, as well as in the formation of clusters of AChRs within the plasma membrane. Neither calmidazolium (up to 10(-6) M) nor TFP (10(-5) M) inhibited receptor degradation or the incorporation of new receptors (12 to 24 h). In addition, neither drug blocked the increased synthesis of receptors induced by chick brain extract, nor significantly affected AChR clusters already in the plane of the membrane at the time of drug addition. However, both drugs blocked new receptor clusters (induced by a basement membrane extract from Torpedo electric organ) from forming. These results indicate that receptors can move to and from the cell membrane in a calmodulin-independent fashion, but movement in the plane of the membrane to form a cluster requires the participation of calmodulin.
The effect of pre- or post-treatment with a calmodulin inhibitor (trifluoperazine) on the response to cytotoxic agents of cells within small EMT6/Ca/VJAC spheroids.	Treatment of small EMT6 spheroids (approximately 250 microns in diameter) with trifluoperazine (TFP), a calmodulin inhibitor, before drug exposure did not alter cellular response to adriamycin (ADM) (5 micrograms/ml), CCNU (5 micrograms/ml) or vincristine (VCR) (1 micrograms/ml). The cell killing effect of nitrogen mustard (HN2) was, however, suppressed by TFP pre-treatment even when the TFP was removed before HN2 exposure. Treatment of small spheroids with TFP for 24 hr after drug exposure was found to have no effect on recovery from potentially lethal damage (PLDR) following bleomycin (BLM) (40 micrograms/ml), CCNU (5 micrograms/ml), HN2 (1 micrograms/ml), or X rays (9 Gy). The surviving fraction measured immediately after drug exposure (SF-0) and the surviving fraction with 24 hr delayed assay (SF-24) for cells within small spheroids were similar following 1 hr exposure to ADM. Following 3 hr ADM exposure, however, the SF-24 was less than the SF-0. If TFP was present during the 24 hr period after drug exposure, a considerable decrease in SF-24 compared to SF-0 was seen in both cases.
Ca2+/diacylglycerol-activated, phospholipid-dependent protein kinase in the Hermissenda CNS.	In mammalian systems, Ca2+/diacylglycerol-activated phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (C-kinase) appears to play an important role in regulating physiological responses that outlast the transient rise in cytosolic Ca2+. Electrophysiological experiments in neurons of the nudibranch mollusc, Hermissenda crassicornis, have suggested a role for C-kinase in the long-lasting reductions in early and late K+ currents that have been observed following associative learning. Accordingly, we have investigated the catalytic properties of C-kinase in Hermissenda CNS. Following homogenization in Ca2+-free buffer, C-kinase can be separated from Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase by centrifugation; C-kinase activity is found in the supernatant whereas essentially all of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase is found in the membrane fraction. Addition of Ca2+, phosphatidylserine, and diacylglycerol to the cytosol results in phosphorylation of at least eight endogenous proteins. The Hermissenda CNS C-kinase can also phosphorylate lysine-rich histone, a substrate for mammalian C-kinase. The molluscan enzyme exhibits phospholipid specificity in that phosphatidylserine is much more effective than phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidic acid. Addition of diacylglycerol, in the presence of Ca2+ and phosphatidylserine, increases the activity of the C-kinase. The percentage of activation by diacylglycerol is larger at lower Ca2+ concentrations. Enzyme activity is inhibited by trifluoperazine and polymixin B sulfate. These studies indicate that the Hermissenda C-kinase is catalytically similar to mammalian C-kinase.
Endogenous dopamine release from tuberoinfundibular neurons: does calmodulin play any role?	The possible involvement of calmodulin in the process of endogenous dopamine (DA) release from arcuate-periventricular nuclei-median eminence fragments, containing tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons, has been investigated in an in vitro incubation system. For this purpose the basal and K+-stimulated DA release was examined in the presence and in the absence of the different putative calmodulin antagonists, pimozide, trifluoperazine, penfluridol and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7). Trifluoperazine and pimozide in concentrations up to 100 microM were both uneffective in blocking K+-evoked DA release. Penfluridol in doses of 5 and 10 microM, did not prevent 35 mM K+-induced endogenous DA release. It was able to reduce K+-stimulated DA release only at the very large concentration of 100 microM. W-7 added in vitro to the hypothalamic fragments, prevented endogenous DA release evoked by 35 mM K+ in a dose-dependent manner. W-5, a chlorine deficient analogue of W-7, that interacts only weakly with calmodulin, failed to modify K+-stimulated endogenous DA release in doses up to 200 microM. All the putative calmodulin antagonists used in the present study did not induce any change of basal DA release. In conclusion the fact that most of the agents, except W-7, known to antagonize calmodulin-dependent processes in many biological systems failed to interfere with the release of endogenous DA from TIDA neurons seems to suggest that calmodulin does not play a crucial role in the process of DA release and that the inhibitory effect of W-7 on endogenous DA release may be better attributed to other mechanisms different from its anticalmodulin action.
Effect of neuroleptics and tricyclic antidepressants upon d-amphetamine discrimination.	After rats were trained to differentiate between the effects of intraperitqoneal administration of 0.6 mg/kg d-amphetamine and saline, pretreatment with various neuroleptic drugs was observed to significantly inhibit d-amphetamine discrimination. Thus, trifluoperazine, haloperidol, fluphenazine, chlorpromazine and thioridazine, but not clozapine, decreased d-amphetamine-induced control of discriminative performance. The ED50s of the effective neuroleptics for this inhibition were similar to those reported for antagonism of amphetamine-induced stereotypic behavior in the rat and the slopes of the dose-response curves were parallel indicating a common site and mechanism of action, presumably blockade of postsynaptic dopaminergic receptors. In contrast, pretreatment with the tricyclic antidepressant agents, imipramine, nortryptiline and desipramine had no significant effect on the discrimination of a dose of d-amphetamine which produced a low degree of discriminative control. The results are viewed in relation to the "dopamine hypothesis" of schizophrenia and affective disorders and the use of this animal behavioral method for determining brain dopamine interactions is discussed.
In vitro antisecretory effects of trifluoperazine and other neuroleptics in rabbit and human small intestine.	The inhibitory effects of several neuroleptic agents on intestinal secretion were examined in vitro by measuring short-circuit current, net Cl flux, and cyclic nucleotide concentration, In rabbit ileal mu cosa, trifluoperazine (0.2-0.5 mM) did not significantly alter basal transport rates, but partially inhibited responses to the following secretagogues: theophylline, 8-Br-cAMP, VIP, dimethyl-PGE2 and heat-stable Escherichia coli enterotoxin (a cGMP agonist). Trifluoperazine completely inhibited the response to Ca ionophore A23187. In human small intestinal mucosa, trifluoperazine (0.1-0.5 mM) inhibited electrical responses to VIP and theophylline almost completely. The inhibitory action of trifluoperazine was manifest only on serosal addition. Trifluoperazine did not significantly alter cAMP or cGMP concentrations either under basal conditions or in the presence of secretagogues. It also did not diminish the electrical response to luminally added D-glucose. Three other neuroleptics were tested and found to have antisecretory action; the order of potencies were trifluoperazine greater than chlorpromazine greater than haloperidol greater chlorprothixene. Since all four agents are potent inhibitors of calcium-dependent regulator in bovine brain, this ubiquitous protein may also be the target for their antisecretory action in intestine.
Selective inhibition of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP phosphodiesterases of cardiac nuclear fraction.	Approximately 60% of the total particulate phosphodiesterase activity occurring in cardiac tissue was associated with the nuclear fraction. Cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activity of the purified cardiac nuclear fraction was selectively inhibited by trifluoperazine (I50 = 19 microM) with negligible inhibition (less than 15%) of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase activity. Inhibition of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase by trifluoperazine was calcium-dependent and suppressed by ethylene glycol bis (beta-aminoethyl ether)N, N, N', N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA). The inhibitory response of both phosphodiesterases to papaverine was similar in the presence of calcium. However, in the presence of EGTA, papaverine inhibition of cyclic GMP but not cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase was reduced significantly. Calmodulin (1-5 micrograms/ml) readily reversed the inhibition by 25 microM trifluoperazine of membraneous cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase, but had no effect on inhibition by papaverine. With imidazolidinone analogues (Ro 7-2956 and Ro 20-1724), EGTA enhanced the inhibition of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase without significantly altering the inhibition of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase. Inhibition of cyclic AMP of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activity by 1-methyl-3-isobutylxanthine, quinidine, or compound SQ 20,009 was not affected appreciably by calcium or EGTA. The selective inhibitory action of certain pharmacological agents on phosphodiesterases of cardiac nuclear fraction and the modulation of the inhibitory response by calcium suggest an intrinsic and predominant association of calmodulin with cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activity of these membranes.
Effects of trifluoperazine and mitogenic lectins on calcium ATPase activity and calcium transport by human lymphocyte plasma membrane vesicles.	The phenothiazine, trifluoperazine, and the mitogenic lectins, phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and Concanavalin A (Con A), were tested for their effects on human lymphocyte plasma membrane Ca-activated Mg-ATPase and ATP-dependent calcium uptake. Trifluoperazine completely inhibited Ca-uptake when present from the start of the assay at concentrations of 100 microM or more. When added during measurement of calcium uptake, trifluoperazine reduced the rate of vesicular calcium accumulation but was unlike the calcium ionophore, A23187, which caused a rapid release of accumulated calcium from the vesicles. Trifluoperazine also inhibited membrane vesicle Ca-ATPase activity, but this inhibition was non-specific since the Mg-ATPase and Na,K-ATPase activities were inhibited to similar extents at the same concentration of the phenothiazine. In contrast, concentrations of PHA and Con A, which are mitogenic for lymphocytes, did not cause any change in Ca-uptake when added to suspensions of membrane vesicles. Con A had no effect and PHA had a weak inhibitory effect on Ca-ATPase activity.
Modulating effects of phenothiazines on mast cells deformities induced by colchicine. Importance of calcium]	The shape changes of peritoneal rat mast cells induced by colchicine are completely inhibited by trifluoperazine (10(-4) M), known to inhibit calmodulin, and by EDTA (2 X 10(-3) M). Promethazine and chlorpromazine increase these modifications up to 10(-4) M and inhibit them at higher concentrations.
Calmodulin stimulates both adenosine 5'-triphosphate hydrolysis and synthesis catalyzed by a cardiac calcium ion dependent adenosinetriphosphatase.	A Ca2+-dependent ATPase purified from a rabbit heart membrane preparation was compared to the Ca2+-dependent ATPase purified from skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. The two ATPases display an identical electrophoretic pattern and an identical Ca2+-concentration dependence. However, only the cardiac preparation exhibits a 2-3-fold activation by calmodulin. This effect is best observed when the molar concentrations of calmodulin and ATPase are equivalent and in the presence of high Ca2+ (approximately 10(-5) M) and ATP (approximately 10(-3) M) concentrations. It is demonstrated for the first time that calmodulin stimulates the rate of ATP synthesis, as revealed by an increased production of Pi and a faster ATP in equilibrium Pi exchange, as well as the rate of ATP hydrolysis. It is also demonstrated that calmodulin activation is expressed with purified and detergent-solubilized enzyme in addition to membrane-bound systems. These findings indicate that the effect of calmodulin is an acceleration of the enzyme turnover, due to direct interaction of calmodulin with the enzyme.
Stimulation of cholesterol side-chain cleavage by a luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone (luliberin) agonist (ICI 118630) in rat Leydig cells.	The action of a luliberin (luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone) agonist (ICI 118630) and lutropin (luteinizing hormone) on the activity of the cytochrome P-450 cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme in rat Leydig cells has been investigated. This has been carried out by studying the metabolism of exogenous (22R)-22- and 25-hydroxycholesterol to testosterone. It was found that both hydroxycholesterols increased testosterone production to higher levels than achieved by lutropin alone. Addition of luliberin agonist but not lutropin was found to increase further the metabolism of the hydroxycholesterol to testosterone; this occurred in the presence of saturating and subsaturating levels of the hydroxycholesterols. This effect of luliberin agonist was potentiated in the presence of lutropin. The protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, inhibited the luliberin agonist-induced stimulation of the hydroxycholesterol metabolism. At low calcium levels (1.1 microM), testosterone production was increased by addition of (22R)-22-hydroxycholesterol but the luliberin agonist effect was negated. The calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine inhibited (22R)-22-hydroxycholesterol-stimulated steroidogenesis and negated the luliberin agonist effect. These results indicate that luliberin agonist specifically increases the synthesis of the cytochrome P-450 cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme in rat testis Leydig cells.
The effect of various stimuli and calcium antagonists on the fluorescence response of chlorotetracycline-loaded human neutrophils.	Chlorotetracycline has been used in neutrophils and other cells as probe of the state of membrane-bound calcium. We report here that human neutrophils treated with chlorotetracycline response to soluble secretagogues by a prompt decrease in chlorotetracycline fluorescence. This response was observed within 2-5 s, making it one of the most immediate reactions in neutrophils to stimulation, and was obtained with three secretagogues studied: a chemotactic peptide N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine, a tumor promotor (phorbol myristate acetate) and a lectin (concanavalin A). The responses of neutrophils to the three stimuli differed both quantitatively and qualitatively. The calcium EGTA, did not effect the onset of the decrease in chlorotetracycline fluorescence, suggesting that the probe was measuring changes in intracellular calcium pools. The intracellular calcium antagonists, TMb-8, W-7 and trifluoperazine, did not block, but actually augmented, the fluorescence response. All four of these calcium antagonists blocked the recovery of chlorotetracycline fluorescence which was usually observed several minutes after stimulation with N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine. This suggests that recovery was dependent upon both extracellular calcium and active calmodulin. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that changes in chlorotetracycline fluorescence reflect changes in a pool of membrane-bound 'trigger calcium', the release of which is an essential first step in stimulus-response coupling in human neutrophils.
Alterations of glial tumor cell Ca2+ metabolism and Ca2+-dependent cAMP accumulation by phorbol myristate acetate.	C6 glial tumor cells exposed to phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) possessed lowered cAMP content, reduced ability to accumulate cAMP in response to norepinephrine or cholera toxin, and a 3-fold increase in the concentration of norepinephrine producing 50% of the maximal rate of cAMP accumulation. Detectable effects on cAMP accumulation occurred within 10 min of exposure to PMA, and prominent effects by 2 h. PMA similarly affected cells pretreated with cycloheximide. In contrast, Ca2+-depleted preparations of control and PMA-treated cells accumulated cAMP identically in response to norepinephrine or cholera toxin. Ca2+ restoration, which increased the rate of cAMP accumulation in control cells severalfold, did not enhance cAMP accumulation in PMA-treated cells. Neither high catecholamine nor high extracellular Ca2+ concentrations reversed the suppression of cAMP accumulation by PMA. Trifluoperazine, which inhibited the Ca2+-dependent component of norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP accumulation in control cells, did not significantly reduce norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP accumulation in PMA-treated cells. Cell free preparations of control and PMA-treated cultures did not differ significantly in calmodulin content or in Ca2+-stimulated adenylate cyclase, Ca2+-dependent cAMP phosphodiesterase, and (Ca2+-Mg2+)-ATPase activities. The Ca2+ content, however, of intact cells decreased with time of PMA treatment. Within minutes after exposure to PMA, the ability of Ca2+-depleted cells to take up 45Ca was significantly reduced. Both 45Ca uptake and Ca2+-dependent cAMP accumulation were reduced over the same PMA concentration range.
Calcium ions modulate hormonally stimulated progesterone production in isolated ovarian cells.	Swine granulosa-luteal cells incubated in Ca2+-deficient medium (5 muM final Ca2+ concentration) for short time periods produced diminished quantities of progesterone in response to lutropin. Maximally stimulating effects of prostaglandin E2 and L-adrenaline were also impaired significantly. Diminished progesterone production could not be attributed to alterations in protein synthesis or cell viability. Under Ca2+-deprived conditions, the stimulatory actions of cholera toxin, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and 8-bromo cyclic AMP were also significantly impeded. Administration of a presumptive antagonist of transmembrane Ca2+ influx (verapamil) or of EGTA to chelate extracellular Ca2+, significantly decreased the total cellular content of Ca2+, and antagonized the actions of lutropin. Micromolar concentrations of trifluoperazine mimicked the suppressive effects of Ca2+ deprivation. Conversely, the bivalent-cation ionophore, ionophore A23187, significantly augmented the stimulation of progesterone produced by lutropin. Thus the present observations implicate Ca2+ in the modulation of hormonally stimulated progesterone production in isolated ovarian cells, and suggest that Ca2+ may influence one or more processes distal to, or independent of, cyclic AMP generation. In addition, the susceptibility of progesterone biosynthesis to inhibition by trifluoperazine suggests a possible role for calmodulin in the ovary.
Possible role of calcium uptake and calmodulin in adrenal glomerulosa cells: effects of verapamil and trifluoperazine.	The effects of verapamil and trifluoperazine were examined on isolated rat adrenal glomerulosa cells so as to assess the role of calcium ion influx and calmodulin in the function of this cell population. Verapamil (10(-5) and 10(-4) moles/1) slightly reduced the basal production rate of aldosterone and strongly inhibited the response to angiotensin II, potassium ions, corticotrophin (ACTH) and dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db-cAMP). The concentration of verapamil required to reduce the response to these agonists by 50% varied between 2 and 6 mumoles/1. Trifluoperazine (30 mumoles/1) slightly increased the basal production rate of aldosterone. The response to angiotensin and potassium was variably antagonized by 3 mumoles/1 trifluoperazine and completely inhibited by the drug at 30 mumoles/1. The antagonist at a concentration of 3 mumoles/1 exerted either a facilitatory or inhibitory effect on the response to ACTH and db-cAMP, depending on the concentration of the agonist. Trifluoperazine at a concentration of 30 mumoles/1 reduced the response to both agonists to a level which was 2-3 fold higher than that observed in appropriate control samples. The present results indicate that (1) calcium influx is an essential event in the aldosterone stimulating action of angiotensin II, potassium ions, ACTH and cyclic AMP; (2) stimulation by angiotensin II and potassium ions are completely dependent on calmodulin; (3) stimulation by ACTH and cyclic AMP is mediated by calmodulin-dependent and independent mechanisms.
Trifluoperazine inhibits hippocampal long-term potentiation and the phosphorylation of a 40,000 dalton protein.	Brief high frequency stimulation induces long-term potentiation (LTP) and changes in the endogenous phosphorylation of a 40,000 dalton protein in the hippocampus in a calcium-dependent manner. In the present paper we report that 40 microM trifluoperazine (TFP), a phenothiazine that binds calmodulin and blocks its activity, inhibits LTP in the hippocampal slice. In addition, calmodulin stimulates and TFP inhibits the phosphorylation of the 40,000 dalton protein (as well as that of several other proteins) in a dose-dependent fashion.
Dansylcadaverine eliminates calmodulin stimulation of phosphodiesterase.	Dansylcadaverine, which structurally resembles the calmodulin antagonists W-7 and W-5, prevented the calmodulin dependent stimulation of 3':5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase in vitro. Dansylcadaverine and trifluoperazine sensitized cells to Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A in apparently the same way, exept that 40 times higher concentrations of dansylcadaverine than of trifluoperazine was required.
Alterations of the cytoplasmic organization of WIRL cells induced by trifluoperazine.	The antipsychotic drug trifluoperazine (TFP) causes a reversible rounding of cells of the rat liver epithelial cell line, WIRL. We have investigated the cytoplasmic organization of these cells after TFP treatment using SEM, TEM and immunofluorescence and have observed significant differences between the control and treated cells. Mitochondria are converted to the condensed configuration with distended cristae and the endoplasmic reticulum becomes tubular with distended cisternae. Intermediate filaments, visualized with a monoclonal antibody, are aggregated to a cap on the nucleus in an arrangement different from that induced by colcemid.
Role of Ca2+ in the secretion of milk caseins in lactating rabbit mammary epithelial cells]	Prolactin and arachidonic acid increase milk casein secretion in mammary gland slices. These effects do not necessitate Ca2+ in the incubation medium. Prolactin does not modify the influx or the efflux of 45Ca2+. The Ca2+ channel blocking agent D600 (6 micrograms/ml) decreases the stimulatory effect of prolactin on casein secretion, but does not interfere in the stimulatory effect of arachidonic acid. The calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine (100 microM) inhibits stimulation of casein secretion by both prolactin and arachidonic acid. From these data, it is concluded that a flow of Ca2+ from the outside into the cell is not a requisite for the stimulation of casein secretion. However, stimulation by prolactin, but not stimulation by arachidonic acid, requires Ca2+ movement through calcium pathways. Intracellular transport of Ca2+ seems necessary for the stimulation of secretion.
Effects of trifluoperazine on smooth muscle actomyosin. Short communication.	Trifluoperazine (TFP) inhibits superprecipitation and ATPase activity of smooth muscle actomyosin. This effect appears not to be due to the inhibitory effect of TFP on the Ca++-dependent modulator and the myosin light chain kinase, which are known to be cofactors required for activation of smooth muscle actomyosin.
Possible role for calmodulin in calcium paradox-induced heart failure.	Several phenothiazines were found to provide significant protection against loss of tissue creatine phosphokinase caused by the calcium paradox. The concentration of phenothiazine required for protection lies within the range generally attributable to their calmodulin inhibition properties. Moreover, the order of effectiveness in protecting the calcium overloaded myocardium is consistent with their potency as calmodulin inhibitors (trifluoperazine greater than chloropromazine greater than promethazine). The most potent calmodulin inhibitor was shown to dramatically reduce the amount of creatine phosphokinase loss from calcium depleted hearts exposed to buffer containing calcium under anoxic conditions. On the other hand, the drug failed to alter the oxygen-dependent component of the calcium paradox. It also failed to prevent the proteolytic conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase to xanthine oxidase. The possibility that calmodulin activation promotes cellular damage by activating either directly or indirectly specific membrane cellular phospholipases is discussed. Also discussed is the hypothesis that oxygen-dependent damage may be linked to the generation of superoxide anion by the enzyme xanthine oxidase.
Entry of the toxic proteins abrin, modeccin, ricin, and diphtheria toxin into cells. I. Requirement for calcium.	In the absence of Ca2+ cells were not sensitive to the toxic proteins abrin and modeccin and the sensitivity to ricin and diphtheria toxin was reduced. Calcium deprivation had little effect on the binding and endocytosis of abrin, modeccin, and ricin. The binding of diphtheria toxin to cells was, however, reduced, Verapamil and Co2+ inhibited 45Ca2+ uptake and protected cells against abrin and modeccin at low concentrations of Ca2+. At higher Ca2+ concentrations the protection was overcome. La3+ inhibited strongly 45Ca2+ uptake and protected well against all four toxins, even at high Ca2+ concentrations. Fe3+ also afforded protection although it did not inhibit Ca2+ uptake. The Ca2+ ionophore, A23187, which strongly increases the uptake of 45Ca2+, protected cells well against abrin and modeccin, slightly against diphtheria toxin, but not against ricin. Both Ca2+ deprivation and treatment with A23187 protected well against the hybrid toxin abrin A-chain/ricin B-chain. Such treatment afforded little protection against the hybrid ricin A-chain/abrin B-chain. Apparently the protection against abrin is associated with its A-chain. The calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine, protected strongly against modeccin and diphtheria toxin. The data indicate that Ca2+ is involved in the entry mechanism for abrin, modeccin, and ricin, possibly as a Ca2+ flux together with the toxins.
Calmodulin regulation of intestinal epithelium adenylate cyclase (author's transl)]	Calmodulin stimulation of intestinal adenylate cyclase was evidenced in plasma membranes from isolated Rat intestinal epithelial cells. In the presence of free calcium, 10(-7) M calmodulin significantly stimulates intestinal enzyme activity and the maximal effect is induced by 10(-5) M calmodulin. Trifluoperazine, a specific calmodulin inhibitor suppresses this effect. These results suggest that calcium, via calmodulin, plays an important role in the regulation of cyclic AMP production in intestinal epithelium.
Regulation of ovarian ornithine decarboxylase. Role of Calcium ions in enzyme induction in isolated swine granulosa cells in vitro.	When swine granulosa cells were cultured in chemically defined medium selectively deficient in Ca2+, the dose-dependent stimulation of ornithine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.17) activity in response to prostaglandin E2, L-epinephrine or the somatomedin, multiplication-stimulating activity, was attenuated markedly. Putative calcium influx blockers, verapamil and diltiazem, also inhibited hormone-stimulated enzymic activity. Similar inhibitory effects were exerted by divalent (cobalt) or trivalent (lanthanum) cations believed to compete with calcium for extracellular binding sites. The suppressive effects of extracellular calcium deprivation were time-dependent (suggesting gradual depletion of intracellular calcium stores), and could be mimicked by the intracellular antagonist of calcium action, trifluoperazine. The mechanism(s) subserving diminished hormonal induction of enzyme activity could not be accounted for by alterations in cell viability, general protein synthesis, half-life of decay of enzyme activity (measured in the presence of cycloheximide), or apparent Km of ornithine decarboxylase. Ca2+ and/or calcium antagonists did not modify enzyme activity in cell-free preparations. These observations implicate Ca2+ in the hormonal induction of a discrete cytosolic enzyme in isolated intact ovarian cells.
Platelet-activating factor stimulates the phosphatidylinositol cycle. Appearance of phosphatidic acid is associated with the release of serotonin in horse platelets.	The addition of platelet-activating factor to horse platelets prelabeled with (32P)orthophosphate induces the rapid formation of [32P]phosphatidic acid. This is subsequently followed by a considerable increase in the labeling of phosphatidylinositol. Activation of the formation of phosphatidic acid by platelet-activating factor is evident at a concentration of 1 nM, is maximal at 0.1 microM, and independent of the presence or absence of plasma in the medium. In horse platelets prelabeled with [14C]arachidonic acid, platelet-activating factor stimulates the rapid formation of [14C]phosphatidic acid, [14C]arachidonic acid, and [14C]arachidonate metabolites. Concomitantly, there is a loss of radioactivity from phosphatidylinostiol., phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylethanolamine. Platelet-activating factor at a concentration of 1 nM stimulates formation of phosphatidic acid while the appearance of arachidonate metabolites is seen at a higher concentration (10 nM), without acetate in the 2-position, is unable to induce in platelets the formation of phosphatidic acid, arachidonate metabolites, or the release of [3H]serotonin and, in addition, does not antagonize the action of platelet-activating factor. the release of [3H]serotonin and [14C]arachidonate from platelets stimulated with platelet-activating factor is not affected by indomethacin. Trifluoperazine (50-100 microM) inhibits the platelet-activating factor-stimulated liberation of arachidonic acid from phospholipids, without affecting the formation of phosphatidic acid and the release of serotonin. Prostacyclin, on the other hand, inhibits the platelet-activating factor-induced release of serotonin, arachidonate metabolites, and formation of phosphatidic acid. These data indicate a close relationship between the formation of phosphatidic acid and the release of serotonin in platelets stimulated with the platelet-activating factor.
Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent protein phosphorylation in rat lacrimal gland.	Ca2+, in homogenized lacrimal glands, enhanced phosphorylation of several peptides. Phosphorylation of two of these peptides was further stimulated by addition of the Ca2+-binding protein calmodulin and decreased by trifluoperazine, an inhibitor of Ca2+--calmodulin-dependent activity. Thus, Ca2+--calmodulin-dependent protein kinases and their substrates are present in lacrimal gland and could have an important role in lacrimal-gland function.
Calmodulin-dependent cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in liver plasma membranes: stimulated by insulin.	In vivo insulin consistently stimulates the plasma membrane, high-affinity (low Km) cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) from diabetic rat liver or adipose tissue. In vitro stimulation of membrane PDE by insulin has been reported to be inconsistent. Also, the involvement of calmodulin (CaM) in insulin stimulation of PDE has been controversial. In this report, conditions for the isolation of rat liver plasma membranes containing PDE that is sensitive to in vitro insulin stimulation and the involvement of CaM in insulin stimulation of PDE were investigated. In vitro insulin raised the Vmax of the enzyme without altering its apparent Km and was dose dependent. Insulin stimulation was lost after freezing, sonication, solubilization with detergents, or storage of the membranes at 4 degrees C for 4 h after isolation. Insulin stimulation was completely blocked by the CaM antagonist compound 48/80, EGTA, or trifluoperazine. Two isoforms of membrane-bound PDE were separated by ion-exchange chromatography following solubilization of the plasma membranes. The activities of both isoforms were stimulated by exogenous CaM. Plasma membrane PDE eluted after the application of exogenous CaM plus Ca2+. The data support the concept of a critical involvement of CaM in insulin activation of liver membrane PDE.
NADPH-diaphorase activity of nitric oxide synthase in the olfactory bulb: co-factor specificity and characterization regarding the interrelation to NO formation.	The neuronal form of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) synthesizes the messenger molecule nitric oxide (NO). In addition to NO formation, nNOS exhibits a so-called NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity. This study focused on the characterization of NADPH-d activity with regard to NO formation in the rat olfactory bulb. In this area of the brain pronounced staining is localized in discrete populations of neuronal somata and in olfactory glomeruli. Diaphorase staining combined with demonstration of nNOS by polyclonal antibodies revealed that NADPH-d activity of neuron somata is associated with nNOS immunoreactivity. It is concluded that neuron somata exhibit NADPH-d activity of nNOS. NADPH-d activity of nNOS did not utilize beta-NADH or alpha-NADPH. Moreover, NADPH-d activity was inhibited in the presence of alpha-NADPH. Dichlorophenolindophenol (DPIP), an artificial electron acceptor and an inhibitor of NO formation, totally suppressed NADPH-d staining of neurons, supporting the concept that the NADPH-d of neuron somata is due to nNOS. Cytochrome C, miconazole, EGTA, and trifluoperazine, which have been reported to inhibit cytochrome P450 reductase activity of NOS, did not affect NADPH-d staining. Hence, NADPH-d activity of NOS does not involve cytochrome P450 reductase activity as required for NO formation. Contrary to NADPH-d activity of neuron somata, staining of olfactory glomeruli was not co-localized with nNOS immunoreactivity. Glomerular staining was also observed in the presence of beta-NADH and alpha-NADPH. Further, it was unchanged in the presence of the NO formation inhibitor DPIP. Hence, the glomerular staining in the presence of NADPH is not due to the NADPH-d activity of NOS. We conclude that staining of neuronal structures in the presence of NADPH does not necessarily represent NADPH-d activity of NOS.
Trifluoperazine and calmidazolium have multiple actions on the release of noradrenaline from sympathetic nerves of mouse atria.	The aim of this study was to determine whether the calmodulin inhibitors trifluoperazine (TFP) and calmidazolium (CMZ) could decrease the action-potential-evoked release of noradrenaline from mouse isolated atria incubated with [3H]-noradrenaline in support of the hypothesis that calmodulin is involved in neurotransmitter release. TFP (10 microM and 30 microM) significantly enhanced stimulation-induced (S-I) outflow of radioactivity from mouse atria but had no effect at 1.0 microM or 70 microM. TFP (70 microM) also significantly increased the spontaneous outflow of radioactivity. The facilitatory effect of TFP (10 microM) on S-I outflow of radioactivity persisted in either the presence of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (100 microM) or atropine (0.3 microM) indicating that this effect of TFP was not mediated through either inhibition of phosphodiesterases or through interference with presynaptic muscarinic receptors, respectively. In the presence of phentolamine, the facilitatory effect of TFP (10 microM) on S-I outflow was reduced but there was no effect on S-I outflow at 70 microM. However, in the presence of a combination of both phentolamine (1.0 microM) and the neuronal uptake blocker desipramine (1.0 microM) a significant inhibitory effect of TFP (70 microM) on the S-I outflow of radioactivity was observed, indicating that effects of TFP on presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors and neuronal uptake had disguised an inhibitory effect on S-I noradrenaline release. Another inhibitor of the Ca(2+)-calmodulin complex, calmidazolium (CMZ, 10 microM) inhibited the S-I outflow of radioactivity but had no effect at 1.0 microM. However, CMZ (10 microM) also induced a concomitant increase in the spontaneous outflow of radioactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Study of the activation mechanism of adriamycin on rat mast cells.	Adriamycin (ADR) induces nonimmunological and noncytotoxic histamine release from peritoneal and pleural rat mast cells. This secretion is unaffected by the pretreatment with pertussis toxin, cholera toxin and benzalkonium chloride. Histamine release induced by compound 48/80, was markedly inhibited by pertussis toxin, cholera toxin, benzalkonium chloride and neuraminidase. The ADR dose-response curve is significantly shifted to the right when cells were preincubated with the unspecific phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX. The activation of protein kinase C (PKC) with the phorbol esther TPA increases the response to ADR, while PKC inhibition with trifluoperazine decreases histamine release. The pretreatment of mast cells with okadaic acid did not modify the response to ADR. These results suggest that ADR elicits histamine release with a mechanism notably different from compound 48/80.
Calcium homeostasis in Trypanosoma cruzi.	By using the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator fura 2, submicromolar levels of intracellular Ca2+ have been detected in Trypanosoma cruzi different stages. The intracellular transport mechanisms involved in maintaining Ca2+ homeostasis in T. cruzi have been characterized by measuring Ca2+ transport in digitonin-permeabilized cells. Two intracellular calcium transport systems have been detected. Ca2+ uptake by the mitochondria occurs by an electrophoretic mechanism, is inhibited by antimycin A, FCCP, and ruthenium red, and stimulated by respiratory substrates, phosphate and acetate. This pool has a high capacity and low affinity for Ca2+ and is able to buffer external Ca2+ at concentrations in the range of 0.6-0.7 microM. Ca2+ uptake by the endoplasmic reticulum is inhibited by high concentrations of vanadate and anticalmodulin agents, and stimulated by ATP. This pool has a low capacity and a high affinity for Ca2+ and is able to buffer external Ca2+ at concentrations in the range of 0.05-1.0 microM. In addition, calmodulin has been purified from T. cruzi epimastigotes and shown to stimulate the homologous plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase and cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase. The gene encoding this protein has been cloned and sequenced and shown to have a great homology to mammalian calmodulin. The role of the plasma membrane of T. cruzi in the regulation of [Ca2+]i has been studied using fura 2-loaded epimastigotes or plasma membrane vesicles prepared from epimastigotes. Plasma membrane vesicles transport Ca2+ in the presence of Mg2+ and have a high affinity, vanadate-sensitive (Ca(2+)-Mg2+)-ATPase with an apparent Km for free Ca2+ of 0.3 microM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Inhibition of regulated catecholamine secretion from PC12 cells by the Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II inhibitor KN-62.	When stimulated by the cholinergic agonist carbachol, PC12 cells rapidly secrete a large fraction of the intracellular catecholamines by exocytotic release from the large dense-core secretory vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. To investigate whether Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II plays a role in the regulated secretion of catecholamines, we examined the effect of the specific Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II inhibitor KN-62 on the carbachol-induced release of norepinephrine from PC12 cells. Approximately 50% of the regulated release of norepinephrine, stimulated either by carbachol or direct depolarization, was inhibited by pretreatment with KN-62, while the remaining 50% was resistant to KN-62 and therefore independent of Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II. In contrast, H7, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, had no effect on any of the stimulated release. FURA 2 imaging experiments demonstrated that KN-62 does not act by blocking the stimulation-induced increase in intracellular [Ca2+]. The most likely model consistent with these data is that all the dense-core vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane in a Ca(2+)-dependent process, but that approximately 50% of the vesicles require an additional step that is dependent on the action of Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II. This step occurs between the influx of Ca2+ and the fusion of vesicle membranes with the plasma membrane, and may be analogous to the Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II phosphorylation of synapsin which mobilizes small, clear synaptic vesicles for exocytosis at the synapse.
Calmodulin antagonists inhibit human immunodeficiency virus-induced cell fusion but not virus replication.	We have reported that amphipathic helical segments in the cytoplasmic domain of the HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins bind to calmodulin (CaM) with high affinity, and inhibit calmodulin-regulated proteins. To investigate the possible role of calmodulin activity in HIV-1 replication, we investigated the anti-HIV activity of various CaM antagonists--trifluoperazine and naphthalenesulfonamide W13 or W7--in HeLa T4 cells, PBMCs, and various T lymphocytic cell lines. The different CaM antagonists were found to inhibit the proliferation of the different cell types to varying extent. Also, the CaM antagonists were found to exert a greater antiproliferative effect on H9/HIV-1IIIB, as compared to uninfected H9 cells, suggesting a deficit of CaM function in HIV-infected cells. The CaM antagonists inhibited virus-induced cell fusion in HeLa T4 cells infected with a recombinant vaccinia virus expressing HIV-1 envelope proteins at threshold concentrations that do not inhibit cell proliferation. The fusion-inhibitory effects of the CaM antagonists were also observed in cocultures of HIV-infected (H9/HIV-1IIIB) and uninfected H9 cells. Under these conditions, the synthesis and surface expression of the viral glycoproteins were not affected, although the kinetics of processing of HIV envelope precursor was delayed. Virus production from both HIV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and MT-2 cell cultures was inhibited by CaM antagonists at concentrations that were inhibitory to cell proliferation. Surprisingly, threshold concentrations of CaM antagonists that do not inhibit cell proliferation were found to enhance virus production from HIV-infected MT-2 cells, but not PBMCs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of metabolic inhibitors on resistance of mannose-specific contacts of Escherichia coli K12 and human neutrophils]	Human neutrophil aggregation induced by Escherichia coli K12 cells has been studied. D-mannose has been found to inhibit the process in the dose-dependent way causing the full blockage at 10 mM concentration. The process of disaggregation induced by the concentration is significantly higher at 10 degrees C than at 37 degrees C. The inhibitors of cellular oxygenation such as N-ethylmaleimide, nordihydroguaiaretic acid, trifluoperazine, and colchicine did not affect the aggregation process. Cellular aggregation was concomitant with production of H2O2, and this reaction was also blocked by D-mannose and depended on the number of bacteria present. The nordihydroguaiaretic acid and N-ethylmaleimide inhibited production of H2O2, while sodium azide enhanced the process. The results show the mannose-specific contact of bacteria and neutrophils to depend on the functional activity of phagocytes including their ability to produce H2O2.
Effect of hypoxia on choline metabolism and phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in isolated adult rat ventricular myocytes: effects of trifluoperazine.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that hypoxia alters choline metabolism in adult rat ventricular myocytes and that this is subject to modification by trifluoperazine. Ventricular myocytes were isolated from adult Wistar rats. Choline uptake and metabolism were examined, using [methyl-3H]choline. Choline metabolism to phosphatidylcholine (PC), an important phospholipid for cellular structure and function, was reduced by mild hypoxia while choline uptake was not altered. Trifluoperazine at 10(-5) or 10(-6) M reduced PC biosynthesis and did not reduce or prevent the effects of hypoxia. Interruption of myocardial metabolism with the combination of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrozone and amobarbital also reduced PC synthesis, although it also reduced choline uptake by the cell. These data indicate that in isolated cardiomyocyte from the adult rat heart that (i) hypoxia impairs PC biosynthesis, (ii) this may be operative in part through inhibition of mitochondrial function, and (iii) trifluoperazine does not act to oppose these effects of hypoxia, but it impairs PC biosynthesis. Thus a component of the membrane phospholipid changes observed with hypoxia may be due to impairment of PC biosynthesis in the cardiomyocyte.
MDR1 gene expression: its effect on drug resistance to doxorubicin in human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines.	Hepatic tumors are resistant to many chemotherapeutic agents. Although elevated MDR1 (also known as PGY1) gene expression has been shown in such tumors, no direct association has been established between the gene expression and multidrug resistance.
In vitro evaluation of chemosensitizers for clinical reversal of P-glycoprotein-associated Taxol resistance.	The purpose of this study was to estimate the potential usefulness of currently available chemosensitizers (CS) for clinical reversal of P-glycoprotein-mediated Taxol resistance. The 8226/DOX6 human myeloma cells were used to evaluate CS effects in serum-rich medium by means of the human tumor cloning assay. The 8226/DOX6 cells express low levels of P-glycoprotein as typically found in clinical cancer specimens and are approximately 40-fold resistant to Taxol when continuously exposed to the drug in serum-rich medium. The CS were used at maximum tolerated plasma levels (Cmax) and at the concentrations achieved in human plasma by oral administration (Coral). Of nine CS tested, cyclosporine A (CSA), verapamil (VER), quinidine (QD), and quinine (Q) were able to overcome Taxol resistance. QD and Q were effective at Coral, whereas CSA and VER required Cmax to significantly enhance Taxol cytotoxicity. The most potent agent was CSA, which increased sensitivity to Taxol by 8-, 12-, and 18-fold when used at concentrations of 1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 microM, respectively. At 5.0 microM, CSA was capable of fully normalizing Taxol sensitivity. On the basis of these data, infusional CSA might prove useful for clinical reversal of P-glycoprotein-associated Taxol resistance. It remains to be seen, however, whether the CSA concentrations needed to reverse Taxol resistance effectively can be safely achieved in human plasma when CSA is coadministered with Taxol.
Effect of calcium and calmodulin antagonists on metamorphosis in the anuran tadpole, Rana tigerina.	The fact that calcium ions regulate the secretion of thyroid hormones could be extended to explore how the mechanisms of anuran metamorphosis is controlled by thyroid hormones. In the present study, an attempt was made to investigate the effects of both calcium channel blocker, Diltiazem (DT) and calmodulin inhibitor, Trifluoperazine (TFP) on metamorphosis and various developmental stages of the anuran tadpole, Rana tigerina. Both DT (25 microM) and TFP (2 microM) treatments caused total inhibition of the development and metamorphosis of the tadpole at premetamorphic stages. The metamorphosis was delayed by DT and totally inhibited by TFP when tadpoles were exposed at prometamorphic stages. Both drugs could not affect the tadpoles at climax stage. The findings suggest an active involvement of thyroid hormone in premetamorphic tadpoles. Calcium channel blockage with DT could not prevent the progression of tadpoles through prometamorphic stages which suggest that the change in calcium pool is not a determining factor mediating thyroid hormone release mechanism. The study suggests that in tadpole growth thyroid hormone secretion is modulated by calmodulin bound intracellular calcium.
Hemolytic properties under hydrostatic pressure of neuraminidase- or protease-treated human erythrocytes.	We investigated the hemolytic properties under high pressure (200 MPa) of human erythrocytes in which sialic acids and glycopeptides had been removed from membrane surface by using neuraminidase and proteolytic enzymes such as trypsin and chymotrypsin, respectively. The degree of hemolysis increased in proportion to the amounts of sialic acids or glycopeptides released from intact erythrocytes. Studies of the time course of hemolysis showed that upon enzymatic digestion erythrocyte membranes became more fragile against high pressure. Such fragility decreased in the presence of chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine but was unaffected by chlorpromazine methiodide or indomethacin. Furthermore, the effect of cross-linking of membrane proteins by diamide on the fragility was examined. The degree of hemolysis at 200 MPa increased upon removal of sialic acids from red cells in which spectrin is mainly cross-linked, but did not upon enzymatic digestion of red cells in which glycophorins, in addition to cross-linking of themselves, are included in the large-molecular-weight aggregates formed by cross-linking of the membrane skeleton with transmembrane proteins. In the latter case, however, upon reduction of the cross-linking by dithiothreitol the effect of enzymatic digestion appeared again. On the other hand, such an enzymatic digestion effect on osmotic hemolysis was not observed either in intact erythrocytes or in diamide-treated red cells. These results suggest that the interaction of the cytoplasmic domains of glycophorins with cytoskeletal proteins may be weakened by enzymatic digestion of the exofacial domains of glycophorins.
Effects of two Ca2+ modulators in normal and albumin-sensitized guinea-pig trachea.	The voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blocker, verapamil, and the calmodulin antagonist, trifluoperazine, each reduced resting tone and attenuated constriction induced by acetylcholine or vagal stimulation in normal guinea-pig trachea. Attenuation of vagal responses involved both pre- and post-junctional effects on cholinergic neurotransmission. In albumin-sensitized trachea both drugs caused small increases in resting tone. Vagally mediated constrictor responses were resistant to attenuation by verapamil in sensitized trachea. Trifluoperazine was less effective against acetylcholine-induced tone in sensitized, as compared to untreated, trachea. The results indicate that Ca2+ handling is altered in airway smooth muscle in this animal model of bronchial asthma. Abnormal Ca2+ handling, therefore, may underlie the hyperresponsiveness to vagal input exhibited in sensitized trachea and could contribute to the generalised airway hyperreactivity characteristic of asthma.
A biphasic pattern of 45Ca2+ uptake by mouse spermatozoa in vitro correlates with changing functional potential.	Mouse sperm capacitation in vitro, leading to hyperactivated motility, acrosomal exocytosis and rapid fertilization, takes approximately 120 min in a medium containing sufficient Ca2+. During that period, spermatozoa incubated in 45Ca2+ exhibited a biphasic pattern of Ca2+ uptake, with the first and lower peak occurring from 10 to 50 min and the second and higher peak from 60 to 90 min. When the exogenously supplied glucose was reduced from 5.56 mmol l-1 to 5.56 mumol l-1, the latter supporting capacitation but not fertilization, only the first peak of 45Ca2+ uptake was observed. Increasing the glucose to a millimolar concentration produced a second peak of uptake. We therefore propose that the first phase of 45Ca2+ uptake is associated with capacitation and the second phase with acrosomal exocytosis, which are both necessary prerequisites for fertilization. In micromolar glucose the rate of 45Ca2+ uptake during the first 30 min was 47% higher than in millimolar glucose, suggesting that the former conditions might promote a precocious rise in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and hence accelerate capacitation. This hypothesis was confirmed by demonstrating both significantly accelerated transition from the uncapacitated F pattern of chlortetracycline (CTC) fluorescence to the capacitated B and AR patterns and significantly higher fertility in vitro in suspensions preincubated for 30 min in micromolar glucose, compared with those maintained continuously in millimolar glucose. These results suggest that an ATP-dependent mechanism, for example a Ca(2+)-ATPase, may be involved in maintaining a low [Ca2+]i. In micromolar glucose, available ATP would be limited and hence the ATPase activity would decline, allowing [Ca2+]i to rise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Second messenger regulation of occlusion of the spinal neurocoel in the chick embryo.	We know that, once rostral neurulation is completed in the neuroaxis of the chick embryo, the caudal neurocoel becomes occluded and the brain rapidly expands. However, very little is known about the mechanisms maintaining occlusion. Studies had shown that occluded neurocoels reopened in embryos treated with chelators of cations, but the reasons remained unclear and the cations unidentified. To begin defining the role of cations, this study explored the effect of Ca2+, calmodulin, and cAMP on maintaining the occluded neurocoel. Chick embryos during the natural phase of neurocoel occlusion (stage 12) were cultured in vitro with drugs known to modulate Ca2+ transport, to inhibit calmodulin activity, or to elevate cAMP levels. To test if occlusion is a Ca(2+)-dependent process, embryos were treated with verapamil and ionophore A23187. To test if occlusion requires calmodulin, embryos were treated with antipsychotic agents. To test if occlusion is cAMP dependent, embryos were treated with methylisobutylxanthine (MIX), forskolin (FOR), or dibutyl cyclic adenosine (DbC). Following each treatment, occlusion of the neurocoel was tested by injecting dye into the midbrain. All treatments resulted in a predominant number of precocious reopenings of the occluded neurocoels. MIX-treated, naked neural tubes had a four-fold increase in cAMP, whereas FOR- and DbC-treated neural tubes showed ten- and 14-fold increases, respectively. The presence of calmodulin in the cells of the neural tube was confirmed by fluorescent tagging and 3H-chlorpromazine labelling. The combined results of this study show that occlusion of the spinal neurocoel depends on exogenous Ca2+, requires calmodulin, and is cAMP sensitive.
Effect of cyclosporin A and trifluoperazine on rat liver mitochondria swelling and lipid peroxidation.	The effect of cyclosporin A (CsA) or trifluoperazine (TFP) on lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial swelling was determined using liver mitochondria incubated with 30 microM Ca2+ and 250 microM t-butylhydroperoxide or 5 mM inorganic phosphate (P(i)). Lipid peroxidation was not modified by either 1 microM CsA or 40 microM TFP. These compounds presented a distinct effect on mitochondrial permeability. Under oxidative conditions, CsA only showed a transient protective effect whereas TFP completely inhibited mitochondrial swelling. Conversely, CsA was very efficient when Ca2+ and P(i) were used, a condition under which TFP was unable to prevent the swelling. These data are consistent with our previous results (M.F. Nepomuceno, D.V. Macedo and L. Pereira-da-Silva (1991). Brazilian Journal of Medical and Biological Research, 24: 833-836) showing that lipid peroxidation is one among other different components of the permeabilization process. The data suggest that lipid peroxidation is independent of swelling, occurring later than swelling, presumably when the mitochondrial reductant systems are depleted. The differential effects of CsA and TFP suggest that these compounds can be used as specific probes in the elucidation of the two distinct mechanisms responsible for mitochondrial swelling.
The dspA gene product of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803 influences sensitivity to chemically different growth inhibitors and has amino acid similarity to histidine protein kinases.	We have cloned and sequenced a gene of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803 named dspA (encoding drug sensory protein A; DspA), mutations in which result in cross-resistance to the herbicides difunon and diuron, as well as to the calmodulin antagonists chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine. The dspA gene encodes a polypeptide of 663 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 74.5 kDa. The molecular nature of two mutations in the dspA gene leading to the cross-resistance has been determined. Targeted mutagenesis of the dspA gene was performed using a kanamycin-resistance gene cartridge. Resulting mutant strains were checked for resistance to difunon and chlorpromazine and showed cross-resistance to both agents. The C-terminal portion of the deduced amino acid sequence of DspA shares significant similarity with the conserved region of histidine protein kinases (HPKs). Hydrophobicity analysis of the amino acid sequence of DspA indicated the existence of two hydrophobic regions in the N-terminal portion that are characteristic of the bacterial sensory HPK family. We suggest that protein DspA is a HPK involved in chemical sensing.
Effect of neurotropic substances on a change in evoked potential amplitude following hypothalamic stimulation]	Records of evoked responses to clicks in the cortex, reticular formation and hippocampus as well as determination of thresholds of hypothalamus stimulation eliciting fear and rage reactions, have shown that after emotional excitation the hypothalamus excitability is enhanced and the thresholds of perception of foreign signals are higher causing a slackening of attention to them. Trifluoperasine and galoperidol in a dose of 0,5 mg/kg, diazepam (0.5 and 1,0 mg/kg), benactizine (0,5 and 1,0 mg/kg), chlordiazepoxid (2.5 and 5 mg/kg), amitriptiline (2,5 and 5,0 mg/kg), imipramine (2,5 and 5,0 mg/kg) normalize the attention after emotional excitation by reducing the excitability of the hypothalamus. Pentobarbital (1,0 and 2,0 mg/kg), chlorpromazine (0,5 and 1,0 mg/kg) as well as trifluorasine and galoperidol in a dose of 1,0 mg/kg, deepen the attention disturbances after emotional excitation due to a blockade of inhibitory effects of the basolateral amygdala and dorsal hippocampus on the hypothalamus.
Calmodulin binding to glutamate decarboxylase is required for regulation of glutamate and GABA metabolism and normal development in plants.	Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) catalyzes the decarboxylation of glutamate to CO2 and gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA). GAD is ubiquitous in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, but only plant GAD has been shown to bind calmodulin (CaM). Here, we assess the role of the GAD CaM-binding domain in vivo. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing a mutant petunia GAD lacking the CaM-binding domain (GADdeltaC plants) exhibit severe morphological abnormalities, such as short stems, in which cortex parenchyma cells fail to elongate, associated with extremely high GABA and low glutamate levels. The morphology of transgenic plants expressing the full-length GAD (GAD plants) is indistinguishable from that of wild-type (WT) plants. In WT and GAD plant extracts, GAD activity is inhibited by EGTA and by the CaM antagonist trifluoperazine, and is associated with a CaM-containing protein complex of approximately 500 kDa. In contrast, GADdeltaC plants lack normal GAD complexes, and GAD activity in their extracts is not affected by EGTA and trifluoperazine. We conclude that CaM binding to GAD is essential for the regulation of GABA and glutamate metabolism, and that regulation of GAD activity is necessary for normal plant development. This study is the first to demonstrate an in vivo function for CaM binding to a target protein in plants.
Calcineurin protein phosphatase activity in peripheral blood lymphocytes.	The protein phosphatase activity of peripheral blood T lymphocytes (PBLs) was examined to quantify the contribution of calcineurin and other members of the family of serine/threonine protein phosphatases. Using selective phosphatase inhibitors, the fractional phosphatase activities of calcineurin, protein phosphatases 1 (PP1), 2A (PP2A), and 2C (PP2C) were determined. Okadaic acid was used to inhibit the activity of both PP1 and PP2A while cyclosporin A/cyclophilin or trifluoperazine were used as a specific inhibitors of the calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin. Using a [32P]labeled 19-residue phosphopeptide substrate, RII peptide, it was found that PP1 and PP2A comprise the majority of the total phosphatase activity in PBLs with okadaic acid inhibiting 80% of the phosphatase activity. The remaining 20% of the phosphatase activity can be attributed primarily to calcineurin since it was Ca2+ dependent, sensitive to inhibition by the calmodulin antagonist trifluoperazine, and inhibited by the complex of cyclosporin A (CsA) and cyclophilin. These results indicate that PBL extracts contain little PP2C activity. In addition, PBLs treated with CsA had measurably lower calcineurin activity in cell lysates. The measurement of calcineurin activity may provide a useful means of assessing the extent of immunosuppression during drug therapy.
Extracellular presence of IL-8 in the astrocyte-rich cultured cerebellar granule cells under acidosis.	In order to evaluate the functional role of chemotactic cytokines in the regulation of brain function, we examined the effects of acidosis on the production of IL-8 in cultured neurons and/or astrocyte-rich cerebellar granule cells as assessed by the ELISA method. A time-dependent and significant production of IL-8 was detected in the extracellular fluid of astrocyte-rich cultured cells at 2, 3 and 6 hrs after treatment with acidified Krebs-HEPES buffer (pH 6.9), although such production did not appear in the fluid of neuron-rich cells. Additionally, microglia were detected by microscopic examination in both cultured cells under acidotic conditions. Only astrocyte-containing cultured cells produced a marked increase in intracellular IL-8 under acidotic conditions, although this production was much less than that seen in the extracellular fluid at 6 hrs under acidosis. The increase of IL-8 in astrocyte-rich cultures induced by acidosis was potentiated by treatment with glutamate, which enhanced the increase of cytosolic Ca2+ levels under acidosis, and was affected by extracellular Ca2+ conditions, by cyclosporine A, an inhibitor of calcineurin, and by trifluoperazine, an inhibitor of phospholipase A2. Significant inhibition of IL-8 production was detected after 6 hrs of pretreatment with trifluoperazine. Furthermore, the production of IL-8 under acidosis was associated with the appearance of astrocyte damage. These results suggest that Ca2+-dependent IL-8 is produced by astrocytes, but not neuronal cells, under acidosis, and that this production may be related to the process of cell dysfunction resulting from membrane destruction induced by acidosis.
Partial biochemical characterization of nitric oxide synthase in the caudal spinal cord of the teleost Oreochromis niloticus.	The present study demonstrates that a NADPH/Ca2+-dependent nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity is present in the soluble and in the particulate fractions of fish caudal spinal cord homogenates, both activities being inhibited by calmodulin inhibitors (W7 and/or TFP) and by the NOS inhibitor L-NAME. Moreover, Western blot analysis using either anti-NOS I or anti-NOS III antibodies shows that the soluble enzyme corresponds to the brain NOS (NOS-I) of mammals, whereas the particulate one is likely attributable to NOS I and/or NOS III (ecNOS) enzymes. To confirm the nitric oxide (NO) production by the caudal spinal cord homogenates, the NO-mediated conversion of oxyhemoglobin to methemoglobin was monitored spectroscopically. The present results are consistent with a constitutive, Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent, NO production by the caudal neurosecretory system.
Possible role of calmodulin in excystation of Giardia lamblia.	The protozoan Giardia lamblia initiates infection when trophozoites emerge from a cyst in the hosts by the excystation process. Although this process is crucial to the initiation of infection by G. lamblia, little is known about its regulation. To study the possible involvement of calmodulin (CaM) in excystation we tested the effect of several CaM antagonists (TFP, W-7, and W-5) on this cellular function. Except for W-5 the rest of these compounds inhibited excystation. The protein kinase C inhibitor H-7 had no effect on excystation, suggesting that CaM antagonists acted by selectively inhibiting CaM. Furthermore, CaM was redistributed after the induction of excystation and there was an increase in its fluorescence and activity. These results suggest that a CaM-dependent process is involved in G. lamblia excystation.
Glucagon induces suppression of ATP-sensitive K+ channel activity through a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent pathway in mouse pancreatic beta-cells.	Glucagon is known to increase intracellular cAMP levels and enhance glucose-induced electrical activity and insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cell perfused with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate solution. The present experiments were aimed at evaluation of the hypothesis that changes in beta-cells ATP-sensitive K+ (K(ATP)) channel activity are involved in the glucagon-induced enhancement of electrical activity. Channel activity was recorded using the cell-attached configuration of the patch-clamp technique. Addition of glucagon (2.9 x 10(-7) m) in the presence of 11.1 mm glucose caused closure of K(ATP) channels followed by an increase in the frequency of biphasic current transients (action currents) due to action potential generation in the cell. Three calmodulin-antagonists (W-7, chlorpromazine, and trifluoperazine) restored with similar efficacy K(ATP) channel activity in cells being exposed to glucagon. At 2.8 mm glucose, glucagon did not affect K(ATP) channel activity until Ca2+ was released from Nitr-5 by flash photolysis, at which point channel activity was transiently suppressed. Similar effects were seen when db-cAMP was used instead of glucagon. These results support the view that glucagon and other cAMP-generating agonists enhance glucose-induced beta-cell electrical activity through a Ca2+/calmodulin dependent-closure of K(ATP) channels.
ATP in iron overload-induced intracellular calcium changes.	The cellular iron uptake from low molecular weight iron complexes (ferric citrate, ferric lactate and ferric ATP complex) is concentration-dependent, and only a small part of the iron penetrates the cell as shown by deferoxamine treatment. A threshold of iron concentration in the cell must be reached for the iron complex-induced increase of cellular Ca2+-uptake. ATP seems to play a key role in an iron translocation that enhances the effects of the iron complexes. A non-specific and competitive iron-binding by proteins seems to act as a buffer system that reduces the iron overload effects. Calcium channel blockers have no effects on the iron complex-cell interaction or iron-induced Ca2+-uptake modification. An iron complex concentration-dependent inhibition of the CaATPase activity, and its consequent Ca2+-extrusion impairment appear as the likely cause of calcium overload. The relevance of these findings in iron overload-induced pathologies is discussed.
Effects of P-glycoprotein modulators on etoposide elimination and central nervous system distribution.	In this study, P-glycoprotein modulator effects on pharmacokinetics and central nervous system distribution of the chemotherapeutic agent etoposide were evaluated. The multidrug resistance transporter P-glycoprotein is expressed in normal tissues, and its physiological function is thought to be an excretory and/or protective one. To examine this further, we evaluated etoposide under steady-state and bolus dose conditions. In microdialysis infusion studies, etoposide 15 mg/kg/hr was administered to 12 rats. Rats received sodium cyanide (1 or 100 mM), trifluoperazine (30 mM) or cyclosporine (4.14 mM) via microdialysis probe at 3.5 hr after etoposide infusion initiation. High-dose sodium cyanide (100 mM) increased the etoposide BBR,corr from 0.09 +/- 0.03 to 0.85 +/- 0.35. Similarly, trifluoperazine significantly increased the BBR,corr (0.05 +/- 0.02 vs. 1.30 +/- 0.43), whereas cyclosporine had no effect. In bolus studies, etoposide (10-12 mg/kg) was given alone or concomitant to cyclosporine (5 mg/kg) or tamoxifen (13.5 mg/kg). Control etoposide total systemic clearance (ml/min/kg) was 29.3 +/- 13.0 vs. 16.0 +/- 1.9 and 22.6 +/- 5.3 for cyclosporine and tamoxifen treatments, respectively. Etoposide nonrenal clearance (ml/min/kg) values for cyclosporine (12.0 +/- 1.6) and tamoxifen (18.1 +/- 3.6) treatments was also decreased from controls (23.5 +/- 10.5). Etoposide renal clearance (ml/min/kg) values (5.7 +/- 2.5) were not significantly different from cyclosporine (4.0 +/- 0.7) or tamoxifen (4.6 +/- 1.7) treatments, respectively. In this study, the ability of sodium cyanide and trifluoperazine to alter etoposide BBR,corr, demonstrated that etoposide distribution into brain is partly controlled by an active transport process. Similarly, the results indicate cyclosporine inhibits etoposide transport at the canalicular membrane and/or etoposide P-450 metabolism.
