Rosuvastatin and fenofibrate alone and in combination in type 2 diabetes patients with combined hyperlipidaemia.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of rosuvastatin and fenofibrate alone and in combination in type 2 diabetes associated with combined hyperlipidaemia. A total of 216 patients with total cholesterol >/=200 mg/dl (>/=5.17 mmol/l) and triglycerides >/=200 and <800 mg/dl (>/=2.26 and <9.03 mmol/l) were randomised to one of two placebo groups, rosuvastatin 5 mg or rosuvastatin 10 mg for 6 weeks (fixed-dose phase). During the subsequent 18-week dose-titration phase, one placebo group received titrated rosuvastatin 10, 20 and 40 mg (placebo/rosuvastatin); one placebo group received titrated fenofibrate 67 mg once, twice and three times daily (placebo/fenofibrate); and patients receiving 5 or 10 mg rosuvastatin received titrated fenofibrate as above (rosuvastatin 5mg/fenofibrate and rosuvastatin 10 mg/fenofibrate groups). Doses were increased at 6-week intervals if low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol remained >50 mg/dl (>1.3 mmol/l). At 24 weeks, the placebo/rosuvastatin group and placebo per fenofibrate group had triglyceride reductions of 30.3% versus 33.6%, respectively (P = NS), and LDL cholesterol was reduced by 46.7% in the rosuvastatin group and increased by 0.7% in the fenofibrate group (P < 0.001). The triglyceride reduction in the rosuvastatin 10 mg/fenofibrate group (47.1%) was significantly greater than in the placebo/rosuvastatin group (P = 0.001), with no significant differences in other lipid measures found between these two groups. No significant differences in effect on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) were observed among treatment groups. In the fixed-dose phase, rosuvastatin 5 and 10 mg reduced triglycerides by 24.5 and 29.5%, respectively, and decreased LDL cholesterol by 40.7 and 45.8%, respectively. All treatments were well tolerated. These results indicated that rosuvastatin produces marked reductions in triglycerides and LDL cholesterol when used alone or in combination with fenofibrate in type 2 diabetes patients with elevated cholesterol and triglyceride levels and may constitute a valuable treatment option in the diabetic population.
Effects of atorvastatin on the clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in familial combined hyperlipidemia.	Familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) patients have an impaired catabolism of postprandial triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins (TRLs). We investigated whether atorvastatin corrects the delayed clearance of large TRLs in FCHL by evaluating the acute clearance of Intralipid (10%) and TRLs after oral fat-loading tests. Sixteen matched controls were included. Atorvastatin reduced fasting plasma TG (from 3.6 +/- 0.4 to 2.5 +/- 0.3 mM; mean +/- SEM) without major effects on fasting apolipoprotein B48 (apoB48) and apoB100 in large TRLs. Atorvastatin significantly reduced fasting intermediate density lipoprotein (Svedberg flotation, 12-20)-apoB100 concentrations. After Intralipid, TG in plasma and TRL showed similar kinetics in FCHL before and after atorvastatin treatment, although compared with controls, the clearance of large TRLs was only significantly slower in untreated FCHL, suggesting an improvement by atorvastatin. Investigated with oral fat-loading tests, the clearance of very low density lipoprotein (Sf20-60)-apoB100 improved by 24%, without major changes in the other fractions. The most striking effects of atorvastatin on postprandial lipemia in FCHL were on hepatic TRL, without major improvements on intestinal TRLs. Fasting plasma TG should be reduced more aggressively in FCHL to overcome the lipolytic disturbance causing delayed clearance of postprandial TRLs.
Deletions of helices 2 and 3 of human apoA-I are associated with severe dyslipidemia following adenovirus-mediated gene transfer in apoA-I-deficient mice.	The objective of this study was to determine the effect of two amino-terminal apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) deletions on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) biosynthesis and lipid homeostasis. Adenovirus-mediated gene transfer showed that the apoA-I[Delta(89-99)] deletion mutant caused hypercholesterolemia, characterized by increased plasma cholesterol and phospholipids, that were distributed in the very low density/intermediate density/low-density lipoprotein (VLDL/IDL/LDL) region, and normal triglycerides. The capacity of the mutant protein to promote ATP-binding cassette transporter A1- (ABCA1-) mediated cholesterol efflux and to activate lecithin:cholesterol acyltranserase (LCAT) was approximately 70-80% of the wild-type (WT) control. The phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) activity of plasma containing the apoA-I[Delta(89-99)] mutant was decreased to 32% of the WT control. Similar analysis showed that the apoA-I[Delta(62-78)] deletion mutant in apoA-I-deficient mice caused combined hyperlipidemia characterized by increased triglycerides, cholesterol, and phospholipids in the VLDL/IDL region. There was enrichment of the VLDL/IDL with mutant apoA-I that resulted in reduction of in vitro lipolysis. The capacity of this mutant to promote ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux was normal, and the capacity to activate LCAT in vitro was reduced by 53%. The WT apoA-I and the apoA-I[Delta(62-78)] mutant formed spherical HDL particles, whereas the apoA-I[Delta(89-99)] mutant formed discoidal HDL particles. We conclude that alterations in apoA-I not only may have adverse effects on HDL biosynthesis but also may promote dyslipidemia due to interference of the apoA-I mutants on the overall cholesterol and triglycerides homeostasis.
Ferrylmyoglobin impairs secretion of VLDL triacylglycerols from stored intracellular pools: involvement of lipid peroxidation.	Ferrylmyoglobin (ferrylMb) may play a major role in vivo under certain pathological conditions. Preliminary experiments showed that ferrylmyoglobin induced a mild oxidative stress in rat hepatocytes, mainly reflected by early lipid peroxidation. One of the major functions of hepatocytes is the synthesis, secretion and distribution of lipids to other cells. The aim of this work was to examine whether ferrylMb affected the synthesis and secretion of triacylglycerols (TAG), and the possible involvement of lipid peroxidation on these effects. The heme protein completely impaired VLDL secretion, affecting both the lipid and apoB components of the lipoprotein particle. The incorporation of [(3)H]-oleate into newly synthesized diacylglycerol and TAG was not altered by ferrylMb. The co-treatment of cells with alpha-tocopherol prevented lipid peroxidation and concomitantly reverted VLDL TAG secretion to control values. Importantly, although ferrylMb dramatically blocked prelabeled TAG secretion, newly synthesized TAG secretion was not impaired. These data indicate that lipid peroxidation elicited by ferrylMb modulates the VLDL TAG secretion process, specifically affecting the stored intracellular TAG mobilization, rather than de novo synthesis. Apart from its potential role in vivo, ferrylmyoglobin constitutes a useful model for studying the interactions between lipid peroxidation and the specific TAG pool dependence for VLDL secretion.
Dinapinones, novel inhibitors of triacylglycerol synthesis in mammalian cells, produced by Penicillium pinophilum FKI-3864.	Dinapinone A, a novel biaryl dihydronaphthopyranone, was isolated from the culture broth of Penicillium pinophilum FKI-3864 by solvent extraction, silica gel and ODS column chromatography and HPLC. Dinapinone A showed very potent inhibition of triacylglycerol (TG) synthesis in intact Chinese hamster ovary K1 (CHO-K1) cells with an IC(50) value of 0.097 μM. Dinapinone A was found to be a mixture of stereoisomers, resulting in its separation into dinapinones A1 and A2 by HPLC using a C30 reverse-phase column. Dinapinone A1 did not inhibit TG synthesis in CHO-K1 cells even at 12  μM, and dinapinone A2 showed less potent inhibition (IC(50); 0.65  μM) than dinapinone A; however, a mixture of isolated dinapinones A1 and A2 (a 1:1 ratio) recovered the potent TG inhibitory activity (IC(50); 0.054  μM). A similar effect of dinapinone on TG synthesis in intact Raji cells was also observed.
Production of monapinones by fermentation of the dinapinone-producing fungus Penicillium pinophilum FKI-3864 in a seawater-containing medium.	Five new monapinones, including a dinapinone monomer, were isolated from the culture broth of the dinapinone-producing Penicillium pinophilum FKI-3864 in a medium modified to contain seawater. The structures of these monapinones were elucidated by various NMR experiments. Monapinones possessed the same dihydronaphthopyranone skeleton as the dinapinones, with different hydroxyalkyl chains: monapinone A was identified as the monomeric portion of the atropisomer dinapinones A1 and A2, and monapinones A and B showed weak inhibition of triacylglycerol (TG) synthesis in intact mammalian cells, whereas the others showed almost no effect on TG synthesis.
Garlic reduces plasma lipids by inhibiting hepatic cholesterol and triacylglycerol synthesis.	Prompted by the reported hypolipidemic activity of garlic, the present study was undertaken to elucidate the mechanism(s) underlying the cholesterol-lowering effects of garlic. Rat hepatocytes in primary culture were used to determine the short-term effects of garlic preparations on [1-14C]acetate and [2-3H]glycerol incorporation into cholesterol, fatty acids and glycerol lipids. When compared with the control group, cells treated with a high concentration of garlic extracts [i.e., petroleum ether- (PEF), methanol- (MEF) and water-extractable (WEF) fractions from fresh garlic] showed decreased rates of [1-14C]acetate incorporation into cholesterol (by 37-64%) and into fatty acids (by 28-64%). Kyolic containing S-allyl cysteine and organosulfur compounds inhibited cholesterogenesis in a concentration dependent manner with a maximum inhibition of 87% at 0.4 mM. At this concentration, Kyolic decreased [1-14C]acetate incorporation into fatty acids by 67%. S-allyl cysteine at 2.0 and 4.0 mM inhibited cholesterogenesis by 20-25%. PEF, MEF and WEF depressed the rates of [2-3H]glycerol incorporation into triacylglycerol, diacylglycerol and phospholipids in the presence of acetate, but not in the presence of oleate. The results suggest that the hypocholesterolemic effect of garlic stems, in part, from decreased hepatic cholesterogenesis, whereas the triacylglycerol-lowering effect appears to be due to inhibition of fatty acid synthesis. Primary hepatocyte cultures as used in the present study have been proven useful as tools for screening the anticholesterogenic properties of garlic principles.
