Neurosurgery and facial pain.	This article reviews the diagnosis, differential diagnosis and management of trigeminal neuralgia, the commonest facial pain condition treated by the neurosurgeon. The advantages offered by microvascular decompression as a treatment are reviewed and compared with medical treatment and percutaneous techniques.
Oral and maxillofacial surgery in patients with chronic orofacial pain.	In this investigation, we evaluated a population of patients with chronic orofacial pain who sought treatment at a pain center in an academic institution. These patients were evaluated with respect to 1) the frequency and types of previous oral and maxillofacial surgery procedures, 2) the frequency of previous significant misdiagnoses, and 3) the number of patients who subsequently required surgical treatment as recommended by an interdisciplinary orofacial pain team. The major goal of this investigation was to determine the role of oral and maxillofacial surgery in patients with chronic orofacial pain.
Determining the diagnosis from the pain pattern. Brief and stabbing or chronic and dull?]	For the neurological differential diagnosis of facial pain, symptomatic pain must be differentiated from the so-called primary pain syndromes. Trigeminal neuralgia is usually readily diagnosed on the basis of the typical history. The treatment of choice is carbamazepine. If this fails, invasive options are available. Atypical facial pain should be diagnosed only when all known primary and secondary pain syndromes have been excluded. Treatment is difficult and comprises the administration of tricyclic antidepressants. Cluster headache and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania each has an unmistakable temporal course. Although the etiology remains unknown, specific therapeutic options are available. The Tolosa-Hunt syndrome is presumably caused by a granuloma in the cavernous sinus, and treatment is effected with corticosteroids. Painful craniomandibular dysfunction (CMD) is often misinterpreted as atypical facial pain.
Quality of reporting in evaluations of surgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia: recommendations for future reports.	There are numerous reports on the surgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, but the studies do not use uniform outcome measures, which makes it difficult for patients and clinicians to determine which treatment may be most appropriate. The objectives of this study were to set quality criteria and standards for outcome reporting for the surgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia (on the basis of international expert opinion), to identify and assess all studies of the surgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and evaluate the studies against those criteria, and to provide recommendations for submitting reports on the outcomes of surgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia.
Trigeminal neuralgia in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula in Meckel's cave: case report.	Trigeminal neuralgia is often the result of vascular compression at the root entry zone of the trigeminal nerve. We report a case of trigeminal neuralgia in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula in Meckel's cave. Endovascular closure of the fistula resulted in elimination of the patient's pain at the gasserian ganglion level.
Systematic review of ablative neurosurgical techniques for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia.	There are no randomized controlled trials comparing retrogasserian percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation, glycerol rhizolysis, balloon compression of the gasserian ganglion, and stereotactic radiosurgery, nor are there systematic reviews using predefined quality criteria. The objective of this study was to systematically identify all of the studies reporting outcomes and complications of ablative techniques for treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, from the development of electronic databases, and to evaluate them with predefined quality criteria.
Clinical neurophysiology and quantitative sensory testing in the investigation of orofacial pain and sensory function.	Chronic orofacial pain represents a diagnostic and treatment challenge for the clinician. Some conditions, such as atypical facial pain, still lack proper diagnostic criteria, and their etiology is not known. The recent development of neurophysiological methods and quantitative sensory testing for the examination of the trigeminal somatosensory system offers several tools for diagnostic and etiological investigation of orofacial pain. This review presents some of these techniques and the results of their application in studies on orofacial pain and sensory dysfunction. Clinical neurophysiological investigation has greater diagnostic accuracy and sensitivity than clinical examination in the detection of the neurogenic abnormalities of either peripheral or central origin that may underlie symptoms of orofacial pain and sensory dysfunction. Neurophysiological testing may also reveal trigeminal pathology when magnetic resonance imaging has failed to detect it, so these methods should be considered complementary to each other in the investigation of orofacial pain patients. The blink reflex, corneal reflex, jaw jerk, sensory neurography of the inferior alveolar nerve, and the recording of trigeminal somatosensory-evoked potentials with near-nerve stimulation have all proved to be sensitive and reliable in the detection of dysfunction of the myelinated sensory fibers of the trigeminal nerve or its central connections within the brainstem. With appropriately small thermodes, thermal quantitative sensory testing is useful for the detection of trigeminal small-fiber dysfunction (Adelta and C). In neuropathic conditions, it is most sensitive to lesions causing axonal injury. By combining different techniques for investigation of the trigeminal system, an accurate topographical diagnosis and profile of sensory fiber pathology can be determined. Neurophysiological and quantitative sensory tests have already highlighted some similarities among various orofacial pain conditions and have shown heterogeneity within clinical diagnostic categories. With the aid of neurophysiological recordings and quantitative sensory testing, it is possible to approach a mechanism-based classification of orofacial pain.
Gamma knife surgery for trigeminal neuralgia: improved initial response with two isocenters and increasing dose.	The authors sought to evaluate the initial response of trigeminal neuralgia (TN) to gamma knife surgery (GKS) based on the number of shots delivered and radiation dose.
Injections of botulinum toxin type a produce pain alleviation in intractable trigeminal neuralgia.	To report the effects of local injections of botulinum toxin type A regarding pain relief and long-term control in a patient with intractable trigeminal neuralgia. The patient was a 75-year-old man with trigeminal neuralgia in the left hemifacial region. His pain was unbearable and could not be controlled by carbamazepine, amitriptyline, or blocked by infiltration of a glycerol solution or phenol. The authors evaluated pain intensity, quality, and location using a Visual Analog Scale to establish the efficacy of botulinum toxin type A injections. Two units of botulinum toxin type A (Botox) were subcutaneously injected once in eight points distributed along the territory of V1 and V2. Visual Analog Scores were measured at baseline and at 7, 30, 60, and 90 days after treatment. The authors also examined the patient's general condition and daily life activities. The Visual Analog values were, respectively, 82, 54, 25, 25, and 45 mm at each follow-up examination. No side effects were observed on the site of injection and on the patient's clinical state. The authors have been able to reduce trigeminal neuralgia pain with botulinum toxin type A injections in the V1, V2 territory during all the period of study, as well as to withdraw all medication. Interestingly, there was concomitant reduction of pain also in V3, which was not injected.
Trigeminal neuralgia: diagnosis and treatment.	Trigeminal neuralgia is considered to be one of the most severe forms of pain in the human experience. In this discussion, classical neurology, current advances in medical science, and the relief of human suffering converge in a single nerve. Improvements in the resolution of neuroimaging have elucidated neurovascular relationships in striking detail. The availability of new antiepileptic medications has expanded the range of therapeutic options for patients whose pain cannot be controlled by first-line agents. Further developments in neurosurgical and radiosurgical techniques have provided effective treatments with increasingly wider margins of safety. Significant advances in cortical stimulation technology are also making headway into pain relief and delineating the central mechanisms of chronic neuropathic pain.
Role of patient history and physical examination in the diagnosis of trigeminal neuralgia.	The diagnosis of facial pain has been a source of confusion for neuroscientists and primary care givers alike. The profusion of various subtypes, differential syndromes, and confusing nomenclature is silent testimony to this dilemma. The author presents a simple scheme with which to arrive at the diagnosis. The use of the patient's history, confirmed by the physical examination, can be supplemented with some of the tests described herein.
Role of the neurologist in the evaluation and treatment of patients with trigeminal neuralgia.	The neurologist, although not usually the first healthcare provider to evaluate a patient with trigeminal neuralgia (TN), is often involved in confirming the diagnosis and managing the patient's pain with medications. The neurologist has several other important roles for patients with TN: assessing and reducing the individual's pain, patient and family education, and encouraging referral to a neurosurgeon for pain-reducing procedures when appropriate. In general, surgical procedures for TN should be considered when the patient does not attain pain relief after adequate trials of two or three medications, or when pain relief is attained but the patient requires medication dosing at levels that result in significant drug toxicity. There is emerging evidence that surgical procedures for TN are more effective if performed earlier in the course of the patient's pain.
Historical perspectives on the diagnosis and treatment of trigeminal neuralgia.	Since the earliest recorded history of medicine, physicians have been challenged by the difficulty in relieving the great pain experienced by individuals suffering from trigeminal neuralgia (TN). The nature of the pain and the events that incite it have been well described, but effective treatments with acceptable levels of side effects remained elusive until the latter part of the 20th century. As a result, many theories about the origins of TN have been proposed, along with numerous treatment modalities. The pathophysiological causes of TN remain incompletely understood, but the medical and surgical treatment techniques currently used offer effective ways to relieve this extremely painful condition. In this historical review the authors discuss the initial descriptions of tic douloureux, Fothergill disease, and TN, along with various therapeutic interventions and their refinements.
Magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of trigeminal neuralgia.	Trigeminal neuralgia is not a specific disease, but a symptom elicited by pathology involving the fifth cranial nerve. Advances in the field of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have made this the premier imaging modality in the diagnostic workup of trigeminal neuralgia. This article reviews the pertinent anatomy of the trigeminal nerve as well as the structural lesions that produce the symptoms of the condition. The advantages of MRI over other imaging methods are outlined, and the indications for obtaining this study are discussed.
Trigeminal neuralgia and "SUNCT" syndrome: similarities and differences in the clinical pictures. An overview.	SUNCT is a recently described unilateral headache with frequently occurring, shortlasting pain attacks in the ocular area accompanied by ipsilateral conjunctival injection, lacrimation, and (subclinical) forehead sweating. In some patients, attacks may be triggered by cutaneous stimuli. In this communication, SUNCT patients (n = 5) are compared with the considerable clinical series of trigeminal neuralgia in the literature (e.g. Harris, 1940, 1433 cases). In several respects (unilaterality, triggering, brevity and frequency of paroxysms), SUNCT shows similarity to trigeminal neuralgia. SUNCT seems to differ clearly from trigeminal neuralgia in other respects: sex distribution (SUNCT patients are often males), pain localization (SUNCT patients have the pain in the ocular area), the carbamazepine effect, presence of conjunctival injection, lacrimation, etc. SUNCT may accordingly altogether seem to be distinct from trigeminal neuralgia.
Chronic recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhage from a trigeminal nerve malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor: case report.	Clinically significant intratumoral or peritumoral bleeding from trigeminal nerve tumors is very rare.
Diagnosis and treatment of atypical odontalgia: a review of the literature and two case reports.	This report presents two cases diagnosed with atypical odontalgia (AO) and successfully treated with amitriptyline as well as providing a review of the current literature on the subject.
Novel 3D MR angiographic findings of neurovascular compressive sites in patients with trigeminal neuralgia]	Neurovascular compressive sites at the root entry zone of the trigeminal nerve were investigated in 25 patients with trigeminal neuralgia by using the fine three-dimensional (3D) magnetic resonance (MR) angiogram, obtained by a 3D time-of-flight, spoiled gradient-recalled sequence. The characteristic 3D MR angiographic findings of the offending vessels were obtained at the neurovascular compressive sites 19/23 (83%), including intermittent MR signal intensity within the vessels in 14/23 (61%), and unclear margin of the vessels in 5/23 (22%). Those abnormal 3D MR angiographic findings were commonly observed at the site of neurovascular compression in conjunction with moderate degree (grade II) and severe degree (grade III) in 19/20 (95%) of the actual nerve compression by the offending vessels. Abnormal findings with 3D MR angiograms may provide flow-related information to suggest a certain neurovascular compression upon the trigeminal nerve by the offending vessels. Those novel 3D MR angiographic findings may be useful for the diagnosis and decision-making process to execute the microvascular decompression surgery in patients with trigeminal neuralgia.
Neurovascular conflicts]	Neuro-vascular conflict is a pathophysiologic phenomenon which is implicated in several cranial neuropathies. The most common are trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm. Spasmodic torticolis, glosopharyngeal neuralgia, disabling positional vertigo may be due to neural compression as well, but other pathologies such as neurogenic hypertension and limited cases of tinnitus, although rare, highly susceptible to the neurovascular conflict, should be taken into considerration. Current diagnostic approach comprises clinical and radiological evaluation. Along with thorough otoneurological examination, MRI scans are essential to diagnose the conflict. This provides information about the presence of neuro-vascular conflict and involved structures. The microvascular decompression (MVD) is a treatment of choice, based on the separation of offending vessel from the nerve. Those procedures are safe, with high rate success according to the literature ranging from 70-90%. Additionaly, in early 90. a new minimally invasive approach with use of rigid endoscopes were proposed. Those gave the possibility to reduce morbidity and improve results by providing wider insight into the operating field with smaller intraoperative injury. Authors present 9 patients diagnosed with neuro-vascular conflict in the ENT department in Poznań. Clinical findings comprised 5 cases of hemifacial spasm, 3 with unilateral tinnitus and 1 with trigeminal neuralgia. Due to variety of symptoms, it is proposed that specialized centers should be formed to diagnose and treat cranial nerves neuropathies. Team approach composed of neurologist, neurosurgeon, radiologist and otologist is essential in terms of good treatment results. Authors describe symptomatology, diagnosis and treatment options of neuro-vascular conflicts.
The Interdiscipilinary Orofacial Pain Consulting Service at the Center for Dental and Oral Medicine and Cranio-Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Zurich, Switzerland]	At the Center for Dental and Oral Medicine and Cranio-Maxillofacial Surgery of the University of Zurich, a new interdisciplinary pain consulting service was established in early 2005 due to the increasing number of referrals of orofacial pain patients to the center. This unit comprises specialists of various dental and medical disciplines as well as psychologists and physical therapists. This article highlights the most common clinical pictures of chronic orofacial pain patients and describes the organizational mechanisms associated with referrals to our interdisciplinary pain service.
Practice parameter: the diagnostic evaluation and treatment of trigeminal neuralgia (an evidence-based review): report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the European Federation of Neurological Societies.	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a common cause of facial pain.
Headache problems that can present as toothache.	Toothache of nonodontogenic origin may be better differentiated with the use of differential diagnostic blockade. Table 9 reviews the expected outcome of somatic block at the site of pain and when the nerve division or the site of nociception is blocked. Although there is considerable overlap, this technique together with a careful history and detailed physical examination will prevent many unnecessary irreversible treatments. If no sign of periapical pathology can be determined (radiography is normal) and the dental examination is nonrevealing, at least a 4-month period should be allowed to elapse before considering any irreversible dental procedure. During this time pharmacologic trials may be attempted, bearing in mind the clinical presentation. Patients should be informed that it may take at least 4 months for the dental pathology to manifest and in the hope of preventing irreversible damage, careful observation accompanied by the pharmacologic trials will be carried out. The practicing clinician is encouraged to maintain a broad perspective of the differential diagnosis of toothache when the pathology is not obvious.
Special considerations in orofacial pain.	A pathologic dental condition is by far the most common cause of orofacial pain. There are, however, certain patients who possess and exhibit myriad signs and symptoms that mimic pathologic dental conditions but do not have a dental cause. These patients pose a diagnostic dilemma for the dental practitioner. Unfortunately, there are many documented cases of misdiagnosis and mismanagement in patients with deafferentiation pain, neuropathic pain, trigeminal neuralgia, and temporal arteritis. These orofacial pain disorders warrant special consideration for the dental practitioner and are reviewed in this article.
MRI sequences for detection of neurovascular conflicts in patients with trigeminal neuralgia and predictive value for characterization of the conflict (particularly degree of vascular compression)]	A long-term study of the results on trigeminal neuralgia (TN) after microsurgical vascular decompression (Kaplan-Meier curves at 20 years) showed that cure was achieved in 88.1 % of the patients with a neurovascular compression (NVC) producing a large groove on the nerve (Grade III), 78.3 % of the patients with a NVC with nerve distortion or displacement (Grade II), and 58.3 % of the patients with a NVC with simple contact on the nerve (Grade I). Therefore, preoperative visualization of the NVC by MRI and determination of its grading are important for the therapeutic decision. In this study, we investigated the predictive value of MRI for detecting and assessing the degree of vascular compression in trigeminal neuralgia.
MRI of trigeminal neuralgia: initial clinical results in patients with vascular compression of the trigeminal nerve.	The most common cause of the idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia are tortuous arteries in the prepontine space. The trigeminal nerve can be compressed by the superior cerebellar artery, the inferior cerebellar artery, or the basilar artery. Seldom the nerve is traumatised by an enlarged vein. Because an operative decompression of the nerve can relieve pain, a preoperative evaluation is needed. Angiography of the vertebral arteries is able to predict a tortuous artery close to the trigeminal nerve but cannot show the nerve itself. MRI can show tortuous vessels and the trigeminal nerve together on one single image by means of a 3D gradient-echo FLASH sequence with an effective slice thickness of approximately 1 mm and secondary reconstructions in every desired plane. MRI thus provides an efficient tool for the evaluation of patients with trigeminal neuralgia.
Clinical evaluation of peripheral trigeminal nerve injuries.	This article presents a standardized method of clinical evaluation of the patient with a peripheral trigeminal nerve injury that provides both subjective and objective information. This evaluation scheme has been used by 1 author for more than 30 years (RAM) and by the other author (SCB) for 10 years. The information is easily obtained and recorded in the patient's record, and it can be used by any clinician who performs subsequent evaluations on the same patient. The NST methods have been used successfully by specialists in other surgical disciplines for many years, and the various test results have been found to be closely correlated with the injuries found when the responsible nerve was surgically explored.Alternate testing methods or equipment are available that are used primarily in clinical and laboratory research rather than clinical practice. The reader who is interested in more information is encouraged to consult (Further Readings).
Outcomes of patients with adenoid cystic carcinoma of the minor salivary glands.	Adenoid cystic carcinoma is a tumour of glandular cells responsible for 10% of salivary gland neoplasms. It has a high rate of perineural spread but limited involvement of regional lymphatics even in late stage disease. Early survival is typically good (60-90%) although long term survival is poor with spread to distant sites in 40-60% of cases. The authors performed a retrospective review of clinical and pathological records for 24 patients managed by their institution over a 22-year period. The overall 5, 10 and 20-year survival rates in this study were 92%, 72% and 54%, respectively. Perineural invasion was seen in 63% and close or positive margins seen in 64% of all primary resection specimens although survival was not associated with any clinical factor other than the initial size of lesion. Most patients presented complaining of a lump, whilst a burning neuralgia-type pain was the second most common symptom. The study confirms the conclusion of previous studies that tumour size at diagnosis is the most important predictor of outcome.
Pain and quality of life. Evaluation of oral health]	Life quality has a major importance in the actual social context. The evaluation af the pain sensation as a stress major factor is difficult regarding the variety of the methods, their relevance and their compliance.
Cervicofacial pain associated with Eagle's syndrome misdiagnosed as trigeminal neuralgia.	Eagle's syndrome is characterized by the symptoms of recurrent throat pain, pharyngeal foreign body sensation, dysphagia, referred otalgia, and neck pain. The treatment for Eagle's syndrome can be pharmacologically, surgically, or both. The surgical management consists of two major procedures: the transoral approach or the extraoral-cervical approach.
CyberKnife stereotactic radiosurgery in the treatment of patients with trigeminal neuralgia]	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a disabling disease with severe impairment of quality of life and everyday activity of patients. Range of treatment modalities is wide and includes conservative therapy, surgical methods and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). SRS is a minimally invasive technique which provides good results and minimal rate of complications. High geometrical and clinical precision of frameless SRS using CyberKnife system allows its application in TN when high dose is delivered to a small volume. The given paper focuses on the first Russian experience of frameless SRS of TN using robotized system CyberKnife. Since April 2009 till June 2011 4 patients with TN were treated in department for radiation therapy of Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute using CyberKnife system. Mean age was 63 years. Mean and maximal target dose reached 70 and 90 Gy, respectively. Data of catamnestic clinical examination were available in all 4 patients. Follow-up period reached 8 months. Response to treatment was observed in all cases. In 2 (50%) patients full effect was reached while in the rest only partial effect was present. No complications were encountered. Effectiveness and safety of SRS using CyberKnife system is comparable with framed SRS.
A case of combined glossopharyngeal and trigeminal neuralgia]	It is well-known that idiopathic neuralgias of the trigeminal and glossopharyngeal nerves are caused by vascular compression at the root entry zone of the cranial nerves. Because they are functional diseases, initial treatment is medical, especially with carbamazepine. However, if medical therapy fails to adequately manage the pain, microvascular decompression (MVD) is prescribed. Glossopharyngeal neuralgia is rare, and combined trigeminal and glossopharyngeal neuralgia is an extremely rare disorder. A 70-year-old woman presented herself to Hokkaido Neurosurgical Memorial Hospital because of paroxysms of lancinating pain in her left pharynx and another lancinating pain in her left cheek. Carbamazepine, which was prescribed at another hospital, favorably relieved the pain; however, drug eruption compelled her to discontinue the medication. The multi-volume method revealed that a root entry zone of the left glossopharyngeal nerve was compressed by the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery, and the left trigeminal artery was compressed by the left superior cerebellar artery. MVD for both nerves was performed employing a left lateral suboccipital craniotomy. She experienced complete relief of pain immediately after MVD.  Combined trigeminal and glossopharyngeal neuralgia is extremely rare, but some groups noted a relatively high incidence of concurrent trigeminal neuralgia in patients with glossopharyngeal neuralgia up until the 1970's. Glossopharyngeal neuralgia includes pain near the gonion; therefore, there is an overlap of symptoms between glossopharyngeal and trigeminal neuralgias. By virtue of recent progress in imaging technology, minute preoperative evaluations of microvascular compression are possible. Until the 1970's, there might have been some misunderstanding regarding the overlap of symptoms because of lack of the concept of microvascular compression as a cause of neuralgia and rudimentary imaging technology. Minute evaluations of both symptoms and imaging are very important.
Endoscopic assistance in microvascular decompression of cranial nerves]	Microvascular decompression (MVD) is an effective method for treatment of trigeminal neuralgia (TN), hemifacial spasm (HFS), glossopharyngeal neuralgia (GPN). The aim of this study was to assess the role of endoscopic assistance in MVD for the treatment of cranial neuropathies. Since 2009 till 2011 133 patients with cranial neuropathies were treated by MVD in Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute, Moscow. In 22 patients (11 patients with HFS, 10 patients with TN, 1 with GPN) endoscopic assistance was applied during the MVD. We used minimally invasive retrosigmoid approach in a unilateral position. Cerebellopontine angle was explored by 30-degree or 70-degree telescope to visualize the root entry zone of trigeminal, facial or glossopharyngeal nerves and to locate the neurovascular conflict. In 9 patients with HFS and in 1 patient with TN and in another patient with GPN endoscopy discovered offending vessels that were not visible through the microscope. In all cases endoscope was used to exclude another site of compression and to verify decompression and to identify position of teflon and offending vessel after MVD. Immediately after the surgery excellent outcome was observed in 10 patients with HFS (89%), one patient was reoperated 1.5 years after first operation with positive effect. Relief of pain in early postoperative period was observed in patients with TN and GPN. There were no major complications and postoperative mortality in our series. Endoscopic assistance is very effective and helpful technique in MVD of cranial nerves, especially in cases with HFS. In this study the use of the endoscope allowed to identify the site of compression and to confirm the position of teflon after MVD.
Imaging of vascular causes of trigeminal neuralgia.	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a neuropathic disorder associated with severe recurrent episodic facial pain affecting predominantly elderly people. Though medical management is effective in pain control in first 2 years of symptom onset, many patients eventually require surgical intervention. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evaluation of posterior fossa helps to identify major etiologies for TN. Neurovascular conflict is a common cause of TN. MRI is unique in imaging entire course of the trigeminal nerve, cisternal segment in particular. Microvascular decompressive (MVD) surgery is a safe and effective method for relieving neuralgic pain in neurovascular conflicts. We described vascular causes of TN, MR sequences useful in imaging of trigeminal nerve, the various vascular etiological possibilities, factors to be mentioned in MRI report.
Subdural empyema due to Lactococcus lactis cremoris: case report.	Lactococcus lactis cremoris (L. lactis cremoris) infections are very rare in humans. Only three case reports of brain abscess have been reported and the infectious routes and pathological features are still unknown. We experienced a subdural empyema due to L. lactis cremoris in an immunocompetent adult. A 33-year-old man was admitted with fever, right facial pain, left hemiparesis, and left hemianopsia. Computed tomography demonstrated low density fluid collection in the right falcotentorial subdural space. Magnetic resonance (MR) images revealed a high signal lesion on a diffusion-weighted image (DWI) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images in the right paratentorial and parafalcine subdural space, right maxillary sinus, and bilateral ethmoidal sinus. He underwent two sequential open surgeries for removal and drainage of empyema and was treated with antibiotics including meropenem and ampicillin. To our knowledge, this is the first report of subdural empyema caused by L. lactis cremoris infection. We report the case and discuss the pathological features with the previous literature. 
Parapontine trigeminal cryptic angiomas presenting as trigeminal neuralgia.	Posterior fossa microvascular decompression surgery was attempted in 1257 patients with trigeminal neuralgia (TN), of whom seven had a very unusual cryptic angioma. The lesions were not visualized on preoperative enhanced computerized tomography scans, and serial angiography demonstrated a small vascular stain in only one case. The character of the facial pain was indistinguishable from TN caused by vascular compression and there was no other specific symptomatology. The patients' age and sex distributions were also compatible with classical TN. Cryptic angiomas presenting as typical TN without other symptoms have not been reported before, but they should be kept in mind in the differential diagnosis and surgical management of TN.
Trigeminal neuralgia: MR imaging features.	Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was used to evaluate the relationship of the cisternal portion of the fifth cranial nerve to surrounding vascular structures in six patients with documented trigeminal neuralgia and in 85 asymptomatic patients. MR imaging clearly demonstrated the course of the fifth nerve from its root entry zone (REZ) to the Meckel cave and its relationship to the surrounding vertebrobasilar system. In the six patients with trigeminal neuralgia, the presence of a vascular structure at the REZ of the fifth nerve was identified. In the 85 asymptomatic patients, examination of 170 trigeminal nerves revealed that 30% had contact between a vascular structure and the fifth nerve at the REZ, but only 2% had actual deformity. These results indicate that although neurovascular contact may be asymptomatic, MR demonstration of a vascular structure at the REZ of the fifth cranial nerve in a patient with trigeminal neuralgia may implicate this as the cause of symptoms, which may influence the treatment of choice. Because of the inherent limitations of computed tomography in the visualization of posterior fossa structures, MR imaging should be considered the initial screening procedure in the assessment of patients with trigeminal neuralgia.
Trigeminal neuralgia and its differential diagnosis (author's transl)]	Trigeminal neuralgia (Tr. N.) occurring as tic douloureux usually proves to be senile neuralgia without any etiological background. On the other hand, isolated Tr. N. of the first ramus suggests the process. Bilateral Tr. N. are rare yet most frequently an expression of a multiple sclerosis with attacks first on one side and then on the other. Symptomatic Tr. N. occurs seldom as perhaps in M.S., only as tic douloureux, usually as a continuous pain with more or less acute exacerbations. Tr. N. are therapeutically problematic after operative treatment of the maxillary sinuses, still more so after herpes zoster. Other neuralgias and facial neuralgias (e.g. a glossopharyngeal neuralgia, nasociliary neuralgia, Sluder's neuralgia, Costen's syndrome, Horton's syndrome etc.) must be diagnostically differentiated from Tr. N.
Herpes zoster and the aging eye.	Although most patients with herpes zoster are otherwise healthy, all should be screened for occult neoplastic disease. Treatment is frustrating and nonspecific. Postherpetic neuralgia is especially difficult to manage and tends to be more severe among geriatric patients. All patients with trigeminal nerve involvement should be referred to an ophthalmologist for evaluation and possible treatment of ocular complications.
Chronic traumatic trigeminal neuralgia.	Atypical facial pain or neuralgia and lower-half headache are confusing terms and should be discarded. Recurrent unilateral, throbbing, frontal headaches should be referred to as facial migraine. Patients whose trigeminal branches have been subjected to repeated surgical procedures and who have relentless unilateral face-jaw pain should be classified as having chronic traumatic trigeminal neuralgia. Effective treatment is available provided surgical manipulations cease.
Magnetic resonance tomographic angiography: diagnostic value in trigeminal neuralgia.	A combination of MRI, MR angiography and MR tomographic angiography (MRTA) was used to study the relationship of the root exit zone of the trigeminal nerve to surrounding vascular structures in seven patients with trigeminal neuralgia (TN) and ten patients with no evidence at a lesion in this region. MRTA is the technique for showing the relationship between vessels, cranial nerves and brain stem. MRTA clearly demonstrated the presence of a vessel at the root exit zone of the trigeminal nerve in all patients with TN. In the ten other patients, examination of 20 trigeminal nerves revealed that only one nerve (5%) was in contact with a vessel at the root exit zone. This study supports vascular compression of trigeminal nerves as a cause of TN, and demonstrates the value of MRTA as noninvasive technique for demonstrating compression.
Frontotemporal epidural approach to trigeminal neurinomas.	From 1980 through 1993 a series of 44 patients with trigeminal neurinomas was treated. Five of them were operated on for the remainder of the tumour as they had undergone previous surgery elsewhere, 35 were operated on for the first time, and 4 were not operated on for various reasons. An epidural approach to the neurinomas originating in the branches of the Vth nerve peripherally to the Gasserian ganglion (GG) was used. In the neurinomas originating in the GG or in the root of the Vth nerve, either an epidural-transdural approach or an epidural-transdural-transpetrous approach was used. All tumours operated on using the approach described in this article were completely removed. In 10 patients, the Vth nerve sensory deficits increased in comparison with preoperative deficits; in 9 their state remained unaltered; and in 11 the sensory function of the Vth nerve improved. In those patients who had experienced pre-operative atypical trigeminal pain, the pain disappeared after surgery. There was no additional treatment: radiosurgery, irradiation or chemotherapy. Histopathological examination did not reveal any malignant changes in the tumours in any of the patients. Based on our own experience and on the published data it is believed that the best treatment for trigeminal neurinomas is complete microsurgical removal of the lesion.
Etiological factors in the trigeminal neuralgia syndrome]	Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) accompanies brain tumors, multiple sclerosis and vascular compression of the root of the trigeminal nerve. Among 80 TN examinees, multiple sclerosis, cerebellopontile angle tumors, compression of the root of the trigeminal nerve by arterial and venous vessels were diagnosed in 2.5 and 73 patients, respectively. CT or NMR tomography allows differential diagnosis of TN. The knowledge of the etiological factors provides the choice of adequate conservative or microsurgical treatment policy.
Evaluation of vascular compression in trigeminal neuralgia by 3D time-of-flight MRA.	Our goal was to assess the usefulness of 3D images in the preoperative evaluation of 16 patients with surgically confirmed trigeminal neuralgia.
Magnetic resonance imaging used to assess patients with trigeminal neuralgia.	To assess the value of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of trigeminal neuralgia, 51 patients were studied by magnetic resonance imaging after a trigeminal protocol. Clinical and magnetic resonance imaging results were correlated. Seventeen (33%) nonvascular abnormalities and 27 (53%) vascular contacts or compressions of the trigeminal nerve were demonstrated. Of the patients younger than of 29 and 39 years of age, 100% and 45%, respectively, had a tumor or multiple sclerosis compared with 20% and 18% of those older than 40 and 60 years of age, respectively. One third of the patients with pain in more than one branch of the trigeminal nerve had tumors. On the basis of this study, magnetic resonance imaging may be useful in discovering underlying pathoses associated with trigeminal neuralgia if patients have failed to respond to an initial conservative treatment. The patients most likely to exhibit significant magnetic imaging resonance findings are young and with pain in more than one trigeminal branch.
Glossopharyngeal neuralgia. Not just pain]	Glossopharyngeal neuralgia is a rare disease characterized by severe paroxysmal attacks of pain in the distribution of the 9th cranial nerve. The most important differential diagnosis is trigeminal neuralgia. Carbamazepin is the current drug of choice in therapy, but modern neurosurgical treatment will probably become more common in the future. Autonomic disturbances may occur during pain attacks in some patients. We describe a patient suffering from glossopharyngeal neuralgia with transitory unconsciousness due to cardiac asystole and arterial hypotension accompanying the attack of pain.
Twenty-five years experience in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. Comparison of three different operative procedures in forty-nine patients.	A series of 49 patients with trigeminal neuralgia (TN) were treated by three different surgical procedures: (1) peripheral ablative procedures in 10 patients; (2) percutaneous rhizotomy in 17 patients and (3) intracranial rhizotomy (IR) in 22 patients. On the basis of surgical treatment, the concept that neurovascular compression is a mechanical factor in the aetiology of TN was supported in 14 to 18 patients who underwent posterior fossa exploration. The results support the conclusion that retromastoid craniectomy with IR is the procedure of choice for the majority of patients with TN.
Microvascular decompression for pediatric onset trigeminal neuralgia.	Trigeminal neuralgia (TGN) is generally a disease of the elderly. Vascular compression, the causative agent in the majority of cases, is thought to result from atherosclerotic changes within the vessels of the posterior fossa. Rarely, the disease presents during childhood, before the onset of severe atherosclerotic changes. We therefore sought to explore the role of vascular compression in pediatric patients with medically refractory TGN.
Vascular compression and cranial nerve diseases]	This paper offers a review of cranial nerve rhizopathies caused by vascular compression of cranial nerves in the posterior cranial fossa. We present our results of microvascular decompression for trigeminal neuralgia, hemifacial spasm, and glossopharyngeal neuralgia caused by compression of the 5th, 7th and 9th cranial nerves, respectively. After a median observation time of 38 months, 20 of 25 patients with trigeminal neuralgia were completely free of pain, and one patient reported more than 50% pain relief. Four out of five patients treated for hemifacial spasms were completely free of spasms. Of two patients treated for glossopharyngeal neuralgia, one reported complete pain relief, whereas the other reported less than 50% pain relief. No serious complications occurred. The results of microvascular decompression reported in the literature reviewed, including results of the treatment of tinnitus and positional vertigo due to compression of the 8th cranial nerve, hypertension due to compression of the 10th cranial nerve and spastic torticollis due to compression of the 11th cranial nerve. It is concluded that the rationale behind microvascular decompression is supported by an extensive amount of data.
A skull base epidermoid cyst causing the symptoms of a craniomandibular disorder.	This article describes a case report of a 52 year old patient with a ten year history of orofacial pain who was misdiagnosed with a craniomandibular disorder (CMD) and trigeminal neuralgia. After a epidermoid cyst in the skull base had been diagnosed and removed the complaints diminished and finally disappeared.
Early and late results of treating trigeminal neuralgia by Gasserian ganglioglycerolysis using a personal subjective pain measurement scale]	The results of treating 61 patients suffering from trigeminal neuralgia by Gasserian ganglioglycerolysis were estimated in the studies. The following features were considered: sex, age, side of pain, duration of symptoms, pharmacological therapy and the course glycerolysis procedure, with attention being paid to whether the CSF outflow is present or not. The ganglionglycerolysis procedure was modified to ensure that the needle is inserted directly in the ganglion, but not into periganglional space. The anesthetic effect was obtained by simultaneous glycerol injection and slow needle withdrawal. The recent and remote results were assessed by implementing own subjective pain sensibility scale, characterizing the therapeutic results and the frequency of disease recurrence.
