Calcitonin gene-related peptide in the human trigeminal sensory system at developmental and adult life stages: immunohistochemistry, neuronal morphometry and coexistence with substance P.	The distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has been examined by the indirect immunofluorescence technique in the Gasserian ganglion and spinal nucleus of the human trigeminal nerve. In the ganglion CGRP is present in almost 50% of primary sensory neurons, in varicose and non-varicose nerve fibres and in pericellular basket-like plexuses around non-immunoreactive ganglionic perikarya. Morphometric analysis reveals that the CGRP-positive neuronal population is heterogeneous in cell size. Observation of specimens from subjects at fetal, perinatal and adult life stages reveals that the percentage of CGRP-immunoreactive cells reaches a maximum at perinatal stages and then remains constant, declining only in old age. Pericellular basket-like nerve fibres are detectable only in fetal and pre-term and full-term newborn tissue. Coexistence between CGRP and substance P (SP) occurs, SP being present in about one quarter of the CGRP-immunoreactive neurons and CGRP being localized in a little more than half of the SP-immunoreactive neurons. However, perikarya, nerve fibres and pericellular fibres containing only one or other peptide are also present. Bundles of immunoreactive fibres and dot-like nerve terminals occur in the spinal tract and superficial and deep regions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. A particularly dense plexus is present in the peripheral nuclear layers. Double immunostaining shows a similar regional distribution for SP. However, in inner substantia gelatinosa the density of CGRP-immunoreactive fibres is much higher than that of SP-immunoreactive ones. The results obtained add information to our knowledge of the organization of neurochemically identified neurons in the human trigeminal sensory system.
NMDA receptor subunit NR1-immunoreactivity in the rat pons and brainstem and colocalization with Fos induced by nasal stimulation.	In the present study, we examined the distribution of neurons in the parabrachial nucleus (PB), the Kölliker-Fuse nucleus (KF), the spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis (Sp5C), the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the ventrolateral medulla (VLM), which are activated by evoking the nasotrigeminal reflex and which exhibit immunoreactivity for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit NR1. By stimulating the nasal mucosa with saline, we induced the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos and combined the immunocytochemical detection of the Fos protein with the detection of the NR1 subunit. Cell counts revealed that nasal stimulation, compared to anesthesia controls, resulted in highly significant increases (p < or = 0.001) of Fos-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons in the midlevel KF, the external lateral PB, and the Sp5C. In the central lateral PB, the rostral ventrolateral medulla including the Bötzinger/pre-Bötzinger complex, and in the ventrolateral and commissural NTS the increases were only moderately significant (p < or = 0.05). With respect to the numbers of NR1-/Fos-ir double-labeled neurons, significant increases were only observed in a subset of these pontomedullary nuclei. Increases were highly significant in the Sp5C (p < or = 0.001) and the midlevel KF (p < or = 0.01) and moderately significant (p < or = 0.05) in the external lateral PB, Bötzinger/pre-Bötzinger complex, and ventrolateral NTS. The present study revealed that nasotrigeminally activated neurons in mandatory and potential relay sites of the nasotrigeminal reflex circuit express the NR1 subunit. This finding strongly suggests that NMDA-type glutamate receptors are involved in the mediation of the nasotrigeminally evoked cardiovascular and respiratory responses.
