A new guidance device facilitates percutaneous puncture of the foramen ovale in human cadavers.	Trigeminal neuralgia is the most common neurological cause for facial pain. Contemporary interventional treatment relies on surgical microvascular decompression or, alternatively, percutaneous interventions targeting the semilunar ganglion via the foramen ovale. For the latter approach, only free-hand punctures using fluoroscopy devices have been reported. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate a new fluoroscopy-based guidance device for transforaminal puncture.
Percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomy in the treatment of tic douloureux associated with multiple sclerosis.	Patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) have a relatively high incidence of tic douloureux (TD) and often do not tolerate medical therapy well. The minimally invasive nature of percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomy (PRGR) renders it ideal for first-line surgical treatment of TD. We sought to ascertain the benefits of PRGR in patients with MS and to determine whether hypalgesia after PRGR correlates with efficacy.
Recombinant herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) codelivering interleukin-12p35 as a molecular adjuvant enhances the protective immune response against ocular HSV-1 challenge.	An important aspect of ocular herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) vaccine development is identification of an appropriate adjuvant capable of significantly reducing both virus replication in the eye and explant reactivation in trigeminal ganglia. We showed recently that a recombinant HSV-1 vaccine expressing interleukin-4 (IL-4) is more efficacious against ocular HSV-1 challenge than recombinant viruses expressing IL-2 or gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) (Y. Osorio and H. Ghiasi, J. Virol. 77:5774-5783, 2003). We have now constructed and compared recombinant HSV-1 viruses expressing IL-12p35 or IL-12p40 molecule with IL-4-expressing HSV-1 recombinant virus. BALB/c mice were immunized intraperitoneally with IL-12p35-, IL-12p40-, IL-12p35+IL-12p40-, or IL-4-expressing recombinant HSV-1 viruses. Controls included mice immunized with parental virus and mice immunized with the avirulent strain KOS. The efficacy of each vaccine in protecting against ocular challenge with HSV-1 was assessed in terms of survival, eye disease, virus replication in the eye, and explant reactivation. Neutralizing antibody titers, T-cell responses, and expression of 32 cytokines and chemokines were also evaluated. Mice immunized with recombinant HSV-1 expressing IL-12p35 exhibited the lowest virus replication in the eye, the most rapid virus clearance, and the lowest level of explant reactivation. The higher efficacy against ocular virus replication and explant reactivation correlated with higher neutralizing antibody titers, cytotoxic-T-lymphocyte activities, and IFN-gamma expression in recombinant HSV-1 expressing IL-12p35 compared to other vaccines. Mice immunized with both IL-12p35 and IL-12p40 had lower neutralizing antibody responses than mice immunized with IL-12p35 alone. Our results confirm that recombinant virus vaccines expressing cytokine genes can enhance the overall protection against infection, with the IL-12p35 vaccine being the most efficacious of those tested. Collectively, the results support the potential use of IL-12p35 as a vaccine adjuvant, without the toxicity-associated concerns of IL-12.
Identification and neuropeptide content of trigeminal neurons innervating the rat gingivomucosal tissue.	The purpose of this study was to identify and characterise the neuropeptide content and the size of trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons innervating the rat gingivomucosal tissue.
Trigeminal primary afferent projections to "non-trigeminal" areas of the rat central nervous system.	The central projections of rat trigeminal primary afferent neurons to various "non-trigeminal" areas of the central nervous system were examined by labeling the fibers with wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) transported anterogradely from the trigeminal ganglion. This technique produced a clear and comprehensive picture of trigeminal primary afferent connectivity that was in many ways superior to that which may be obtained by using degeneration, autoradiography, cobalt labeling, or HRP transganglionic transport techniques. Strong terminal labeling was observed in all four rostrocaudal subdivisions of the trigeminal brainstem nuclear complex, as well as in the dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord bilaterally, numerous brainstem nuclei, and in the cerebellum. Labeling in the ipsilateral dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord was very dense at C1, moderately dense at C2 and C3, and sparse at C4-C7. Numerous fibers crossed the midline in the medulla and upper cervical spinal cord and terminated in the contralateral pars caudalis and dorsal horn of the spinal cord from C1-C5. The latter axons terminated most heavily in the mandibular and ophthalmic regions of the contralateral side. Extremely dense terminal labeling was observed in the ipsilateral paratrigeminal nucleus and the nucleus of the solitary tract, moderate labeling was seen in the supratrigeminal nucleus and in the dorsal reticular formation, and small numbers of fibers were observed in the cuneate, trigeminal motor, lateral and superior vestibular nuclei, and in the cerebellum. The latter fibers entered the cerebellum in the superior cerebellar peduncle and projected to the posterior and anterior lobes as well as to the interposed and lateral deep cerebellar nuclei. Most projections in this study originated from fibers in the dorsal part of the spinal tract of V, suggesting a predominantly mandibular origin for these fibers. Projections from the ophthalmic and maxillary divisions, in contrast, were directed mainly to the cervical spinal cord bilaterally, to contralateral pars caudalis, and to certain areas of the reticular formation. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that somatosensory information from the head and face may be transmitted directly to widespread and functionally heterogeneous areas of the rat central nervous system, including the spinal cord dorsal horn, numerous brainstem nuclei, and the cerebellum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Primary malignant melanoma of the gasserian ganglion associated with neurofibromatosis.	A case of primary intracranial malignant melanoma of the left gasserian ganglion associated with temporal lobe gliosis in a patient suffering from von Recklinghausen's disease is reported. The association of primary malignant melanoma of the trigeminal nerve and neurofibromatosis is discussed.
Retrogasserian glycerol injection or percutaneous stimulation in the treatment of typical and atypical trigeminal pain.	Of 164 patients with trigeminal neuralgia treated by percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol injections, we have studied the long-term outcome (one to four years) of 72 patients. 51 patients suffered from idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia, and of these 92% were freed from pain by the operation. 21 patients suffered from symptomatic trigeminal neuralgia due to multiple sclerosis or of traumatic or infectious origin. Of these, only 38% became free of pain. A further 8 patients with facial deafferentation pain who underwent treatment by retrogasserian neurostimulation with a permanently implanted electrode were included in this study. 4 of these patients were rendered free of pain by this procedure.
Pathogenesis of latent herpes simplex virus infection of the trigeminal ganglion in guinea pigs: effects of age, passive immunization, and hydrocortisone.	Latent herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection of the trigeminal ganglion, after corneal inoculation of virus, was investigated in guinea pigs. The effects of several factors on the establishment of ganglionic latency were investigated. Latently infected guinea pigs were clinically normal, and virus was isolated from the trigeminal ganglia by co-cultivation. It was found that newborn guinea pigs were significantly more susceptible than adult animals to the development of latent HSV infection of the trigeminal ganglion. The susceptibility of newborn guinea pigs was very much decreased, however, if they received passive immunization with immune serum or if they were born of actively immunized mothers. On the other hand, the susceptibility of adult animals, usually somewhat resistant to the development of latent HSV ganglionic infection, was markedly increased by the parenteral administration of hydrocortisone.
Retro-Gasserian glycerol injection in the treatment of chronic cluster headache.	Seven therapy-resistant patients with cluster headache (six of whom were chronic) were treated by percutaneous retro-Gasserian glycerol injections under general anesthesia. In four of the patients immediate and complete relief of attacks was obtained. There was a close correlation between pain relief and the degree of ophthalmic sensory loss. Quantitative estimation of thresholds for thermal perception and pain showed a good correlation to clinically evaluated sensory loss. As the analgesia waned, headaches returned, and the glycerol injections had to be repeated. Two patients were still considerably improved after 5 1/2 and nearly 3 years, respectively. In the other patients the results were less satisfactory at long-term follow-up study. Pure glycerol is highly hypertonic, and the damage of the trigeminal nerve root may be due to this property.
