Nuclear receptor, pregname X receptor, is required for induction of UDP-glucuronosyltranferases in mouse liver by pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile.	The aim of this study was to determine the role of pregnane X receptor (PXR) in the induction of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) by pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile (PCN). Four- to six-month-old male wild-type and PXR-null mice received control or PCN-treated (1500 ppm) diet for 21 days. On day 22, livers were taken to prepare microsomes and total RNA to determine UGT activity and mRNA levels, respectively. In wild-type mice, PCN treatment significantly increased UGT activities toward bilirubin, 1-naphthol, chloramphenicol, thyroxine, and triiodothyronine. On control diet, the UGT activities toward the above substrates (except for 1-naphthol) in the PXR-null mice were significantly higher than those of wild-type mice. However, UGT activities in PXR-null mice were not increased by PCN. In agreement with the above findings, mRNA levels of mouse Ugt1a1 and Ugt1a9, which are involved in the glucuronidation of bilirubin and phenolic compounds, were increased about 100% in wild-type mice following PCN treatment, whereas the expression of Ugt1a2, 1a6, and 2b5 was not affected. In contrast, PCN treatment had no effect on the mRNA levels of these UGTs in PXR-null mice. Taken together, these results indicate that PCN treatment induces glucuronidation in mouse liver, and that PXR regulates constitutive and PCN-inducible expression of some UGTs.
Gaining ligand selectivity in thyroid hormone receptors via entropy.	Nuclear receptors are important targets for pharmaceuticals, but similarities between family members cause difficulties in obtaining highly selective compounds. Synthetic ligands that are selective for thyroid hormone (TH) receptor beta (TRbeta) vs. TRalpha reduce cholesterol and fat without effects on heart rate; thus, it is important to understand TRbeta-selective binding. Binding of 3 selective ligands (GC-1, KB141, and GC-24) is characterized at the atomic level; preferential binding depends on a nonconserved residue (Asn-331beta) in the TRbeta ligand-binding cavity (LBC), and GC-24 gains extra selectivity from insertion of a bulky side group into an extension of the LBC that only opens up with this ligand. Here we report that the natural TH 3,5,3'-triodothyroacetic acid (Triac) exhibits a previously unrecognized mechanism of TRbeta selectivity. TR x-ray structures reveal better fit of ligand with the TRalpha LBC. The TRbeta LBC, however, expands relative to TRalpha in the presence of Triac (549 A(3) vs. 461 A(3)), and molecular dynamics simulations reveal that water occupies the extra space. Increased solvation compensates for weaker interactions of ligand with TRbeta and permits greater flexibility of the Triac carboxylate group in TRbeta than in TRalpha. We propose that this effect results in lower entropic restraint and decreases free energy of interactions between Triac and TRbeta, explaining subtype-selective binding. Similar effects could potentially be exploited in nuclear receptor drug design.
The binding of synthetic triiodo l-thyronine analogs to human transthyretin: molecular basis of cooperative and non-cooperative ligand recognition.	Transthyretin (TTR) is a tetrameric β-sheet-rich transporter protein directly involved in human amyloid diseases. Several classes of small molecules can bind to TTR delaying its amyloid fibril formation, thus being promising drug candidates to treat TTR amyloidoses. In the present study, we characterized the interactions of the synthetic triiodo L-thyronine analogs and thyroid hormone nuclear receptor TRβ-selective agonists GC-1 and GC-24 with the wild type and V30M variant of human transthyretin (TTR). To achieve this aim, we conducted in vitro TTR acid-mediated aggregation and isothermal titration calorimetry experiments and determined the TTR:GC-1 and TTR:GC-24 crystal structures. Our data indicate that both GC-1 and GC-24 bind to TTR in a non-cooperative manner and are good inhibitors of TTR aggregation, with dissociation constants for both hormone binding sites (HBS) in the low micromolar range. Analysis of the crystal structures of TTRwt:GC-1(24) complexes and their comparison with the TTRwt X-ray structure bound to its natural ligand thyroxine (T4) suggests, at the molecular level, the basis for the cooperative process displayed by T4 and the non-cooperative process provoked by both GC-1 and GC-24 during binding to TTR.
Thyroid hormones and their precursors I. Biochemical properties]	This paper and the following one (see the next issue of Acta Pharmaceutica Hungarica) survey the biological roles and the related site-specific physico-chemical parameters (basicity and lipophilicity) of the presently known thyroid hormones (thyroxine, liothyronine and reverse liothyronine) and their biological precursors (monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine). Here the literature of the thyroid hormone biochemistry, biosynthesis, plasma- and membrane transport is summarized, focusing on the pH-dependent processes. Biosyntheses of the thyroid hormones take place by oxidative coupling of two iodotyrosine residues catalyzed by thyreoperoxidase in thyreoglobulin. The protonation state of the precursors, especially that of the phenolic OH is crucial for the biosynthesis, since anionic iodotyrosine residues can only be coupled in the thyroid hormone biosyntheses. In the blood more than 99% of the circulating thyroid hormone is bound to plasma proteins among which the thyroxine-binding globulin and transthyretin are crucial. The amphiphilic character of the hormones is assumed to be the reason why their membrane transport is an energy-dependent, transport-mediated process, in which the organic anion transporter family, mainly OATP1C1, and the amino acid transporters, such as MCT8 play important roles. Liothyronine is the biologically active hormone; it binds the thyroid hormone receptor, a type of nuclear receptor. There are two major thyroid hormone receptor (TR) isoforms, alfa (TRalpha) and beta (TRbeta). The activation of the TRalpha is associated with modifications in cardiac behavior, while activation of the TRbeta is associated with increasing metabolic rates, resulting in weight loss and reduction of blood plasma lipid levels. The affinity of the thyroid hormones for different proteins depends on the ionization state of the ligands. The site-specific physico-chemical characterization of the thyroid hormones is of fundamental importance to understand their (patho)physiological behavior and also, to influence their therapeutic properties at the molecular level.
Crystal structure of mouse mu-crystallin complexed with NADPH and the T3 thyroid hormone.	Mu-crystallin (CRYM), first described as a structural component of the eye lens in marsupials, has been characterized as an NADPH-dependent cytosolic T3 thyroid hormone (triiodothyronine) binding protein. More recently, CRYM has also been associated with ketimine reductase activity. Here, we report three crystal structures: mouse CRYM (mCRYM) in its apo form, in a form complexed with NADPH, and in a form with both NADPH and triiodothyronine bound. Comparison of the apo and NADPH forms reveals a rearrangement of the protein upon NADPH binding that reduces the degrees of freedom of several residues and traps the conformation of the binding pocket in a more T3 competent state. These findings are in agreement with the cooperative mechanism identified using isothermal titration calorimetry. Our structure with T3 reveals for the first time the location of the hormone binding site and shows its detailed interactions. T3 binding involves mainly hydrophobic interactions. Only five residues, either directly or through bridging water molecules, are hydrogen bonded to the hormone. Using in silico docking analysis, a series of ring-containing hydrophobic molecules were identified as potential mCRYM ligands, suggesting that the specificity for the recognition of the hydrophobic part of the hormone might be low. This is in agreement with the ketimine reductase activity that has been identified for ovine CRYM, as it demonstrates how a protein known as a thyroid hormone transporter can accommodate the ringed molecules required for its ketimine reductase activity. In the light of our results, a putative role of CRYM in thyroid hormone metabolism is also discussed.
Evidence for cAMP-independent thyrotropin effects on astroglial cells.	Thyroid hormones are essential for normal brain development and function. Brain astroglial cells express type II iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase which converts thyroxine into 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine. This type II deiodinase is regulated through various signalling pathways, allowing probably for the local adaptation of the level of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine. Our results demonstrated that thyrotropin was able to induce type II deiodinase activity in astrocytes. A thyrotropin receptor was demonstrated. It was not coupled, as in thyroid, to adenylyl cyclase and phospholipase C, but it stimulated cytosolic phospholipase A2. The stimulation by thyrotropin of both thyroxine synthesis in thyroid and its local activation in astrocytes, could protect the brain from variations in the level of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine.
