Nuclear corepressor and silencing mediator of retinoic and thyroid hormone receptors corepressor expression is incompatible with T(3)-dependent TRH regulation.	Ligand-independent repression by thyroid hormone (T(3)) receptors on positive T(3)-responsive genes requires corepressor proteins. However, the role of corepressors in regulating genes such as hypothalamic TRH, which are under negative control by T(3), is largely unknown. We examined the expression of mRNAs encoding the corepressors NCoR (nuclear corepressor) and SMRT (silencing mediator of retinoic and thyroid hormone receptors) in the TRH-producing paraventricular nucleus of the mouse hypothalamus. Further, we carried out in vivo functional studies by overexpression of both corepressors. Three lines of evidence show that NCoR and SMRT expression is incompatible with physiological regulation of TRH. First, Northern blotting revealed TRH and NCoR mRNA expressions to be inversely correlated during postnatal development and as a function of thyroid status. Second, in situ hybridization showed that NCoR and SMRT mRNA expression profiles in the paraventricular nucleus were distinct from that of TRH mRNA. Third, over-expression of full length NCoR and SMRT in the hypothalamus abolished T(3)-dependent repression of TRH-luciferase. However, over-expression of NCoR or SMRT did not affect either T(3)-independent activation of TRH-luciferase transcription, or transcription from a positively regulated T(3)-response element. We conclude that T(3) -dependent feedback on TRH expression is unlikely to involve the corepressors NCoR or SMRT.
Differential regulation of multiple c-erbA expression by thyrotropin, insulin and insulin-like growth factor I in rat thyroid FRTL-5 cells.	Regulation of multiple c-erbA gene expression was studied in rat thyroid FRTL-5 cells. Two species of erbA alpha (alpha 1 and alpha 2) mRNA and one species of erbA beta (beta 1) mRNA were identified by Northern blot analysis. Withdrawal of thyrotropin (TSH), insulin and serum from the complete medium resulted in an increase in alpha 1 and alpha 2 erbA mRNA levels without altering the level of erbA beta 1 mRNA. Readdition of TSH, N6,2'-O-dibutyryl cAMP or forskolin caused a transient reduction of alpha 1 and alpha 2 mRNA levels (75-90%) at 3-12 h. The alpha 1 and alpha 2 mRNA levels were restored at 24 h. The TSH action was dose-dependent showing the half-maximal effect at around 10(-9) M. Readdition of TSH did not show any effect on beta 1 mRNA level. The action of TSH was not dependent on ongoing protein synthesis but required ongoing transcription. Inhibitors of thyroid hormone biosynthesis, propylthiouracil and methylmercaptoimidazole, did not show any effect on TSH action. Readdition of insulin or insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) caused a dose-dependent reduction of alpha 1 and alpha 2 mRNA levels without any effect on beta 1 mRNA level. Their action was slower than TSH and persistent. The actions of insulin and IGF-I were dependent on both ongoing translation and transcription. These results indicate that TSH and insulin/IGF-I reduce levels of c-erbA alpha 1 and alpha 2 mRNA possibly by two distinct mechanisms without altering c-erbA beta 1 mRNA level in FRTL-5 cells.
The human skeletal alpha-actin promoter is regulated by thyroid hormone: identification of a thyroid hormone response element.	Skeletal alpha-actin mRNA increases in the adult heart during cardiac hypertrophy after the imposition of hemodynamic overload/aortic restriction. 3,3',5-Triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) elicits a cardiac response similar to the effect of prolonged exercise and was recently shown to cause a rapid increase in the amount of skeletal alpha-actin mRNA in hearts from normal and hypophysectomized animals. We used transient transfection analysis to show that T3 induces the expression of the native skeletal alpha-actin promoter between nucleotide positions -2000 and +239 linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene in COS-1 fibroblasts and myogenic C2C12 cells. This T3 (10-100 nM)-induced transcriptional activation is dependent on the expression of the thyroid hormone receptors from transfected alpha 1 and beta 1 c-erbA complementary DNA expression vectors. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays were used to identify a thyroid hormone response element (TRE) in the human skeletal alpha-actin gene. This TRE is located between nucleotide positions -173 and -149 with respect to the start of transcription at +1 (5' TGGTCAACGCAGGGGACCCGGGCGG 3'). Electrophoretic mobility shift assay experiments showed that the putative skeletal alpha-actin TRE and defined rodent growth hormone TREs (that bind thyroid hormone receptors in vitro and in vivo) interacted with an identical nuclear factor in vitro in muscle cells that was developmentally regulated during myogenesis. Transient transfection analysis utilizing 5' unidirectional deletions of the skeletal alpha-actin promoter indicated that cis-acting sequences between nucleotide positions -432 and -153, which encompassed the TRE, were required for T3/thyroid hormone receptor-dependent trans-activation in vivo. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the skeletal alpha-actin TRE is juxtaposed next to SRF and SpI binding sites, at its 5' and 3' flanks, respectively. It is also surrounded by sequences densely populated by other SpI, SRF, and CTF binding sites. In conclusion, these results indicate that T3-induced increases in alpha-actin mRNA in animals are mediated by a direct transcriptional mechanism that may involve interactions with ubiquitous proteins.
Tri-iodothyronine differentially induces Kupffer cell ED1/ED2 subpopulations.	Thyroid calorigenesis is carried out by activation of cytochrome-c oxidase, as well as by induction of mitochondrial and nuclear genes that code for cell respiratory apparatus components and uncoupling proteins. These effects operate increments in basal metabolic rate and also lead to increased production of oxygen and nitrogen reactive species in liver parenchymal cells. The hepatic antioxidant system is also compromised, since superoxide dismutase and catalase activities, glutathione content and lipid soluble antioxidants are reduced. Liver macrophages contribute to the hepatic oxidative stress observed in T(3)-treated rats, and both Kupffer cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy are reported. Kupffer cells constitute the main fixed macrophage population in the body and are a heterogeneous group of cells, derived from a less numerous population of local precursors, which are morphologically fairly distinguishable from the mature lineage elements. ED1 and ED2 antigens have been particularly useful in the characterization of Kupffer cell subpopulations. In particular, antibodies against these antigens provided evidence that T(3)- induced Kupffer cell hyperplasia causes a shift on liver macrophage population phenotype, leaning towards younger cell types. Despite the fact that sinusoidal environment itself stimulates the proliferation of macrophage precursors and their differentiation into Kupffer cells, increased Kupffer cell turnover rates modify the sinusoidal environment and may imply further functional effects. Thus, Kupffer cell hyperplasia secondary to increased T(3) levels is potentially a pro-inflammatory event, which involves both, the expansion of Kupffer cell precursor population by means of circulating monocyte recruitment, and the differentiation of preexisting local Kupffer cell precursors into mature liver macrophages.
Thyroid hormone receptor alpha is a molecular switch of cardiac function between fetal and postnatal life.	Thyroid hormones are involved in the regulation of many physiological processes and regulate gene transcription by binding to their nuclear receptors TRalpha and TRbeta. In the absence of triiodothyronine (T3), the unliganded receptors (aporeceptors) do bind DNA and repress the transcription of target genes. The role of thyroid hormone aporeceptors as repressors was observed in hypothyroid adult mice, but its physiological relevance in nonpathological hypothyroid conditions remained to be determined. Here we show that, in the normal mouse fetus, TRalpha aporeceptors repress heart rate as well as the expression of TRbeta and several genes encoding ion channels involved in cardiac contractile activity. Right after birth, when T3 concentration sharply increases, liganded TRalpha (holoreceptors) turn on the expression of some of these same genes concomitantly with heart rate increase. These data describe a physiological situation under which conversion of TRalpha from apo-receptors into holo-receptors, upon changes in T3 availability, plays a determinant role in a developmental process.
Regulation of adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase gene expression by thyroid hormone in rats.	Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is an important enzyme in lipid metabolism, and adipose LPL activity is increased in rats that are deficient in thyroid hormone. To examine the mechanism of thyroid hormone's effect on LPL, LPL gene expression was assessed in the epididymal fat pads of hypothyroid rats. When compared to control rats, LPL activity, mass, and synthetic rate in hypothyroid rats were increased; heparin-releasable LPL activity and mass were increased to 448% and 300% of control, respectively, and [35S]methionine incorporation into LPL was increased to 250% of control. The increases in LPL activity and mass were reversed by treatment of hypothyroid rats with triiodothyronine (T3). However, there was no change in the level of LPL mRNA when compared to the level of gamma-actin mRNA and no effect on LPL transcription using run-off assays. Isolated adipocytes were prepared from normal rats and exposed to 2 nM T3 in vitro for 24 h. The addition of T3 to cultures of adipocytes resulted in a decrease in LPL activity, mass, and [35S]methionine incorporation, but still no change in LPL mRNA level. To determine whether thyroid hormone regulated catecholamine responsiveness, adipocytes were prepared from hypothyroid and control rats, and the responses to epinephrine were compared. Although epinephrine inhibited [35S]methionine incorporation into LPL in control rat adipocytes, there was essentially no effect in hypothyroid rat cells. In addition, T3 treatment of the hypothyroid rats restored the responsiveness to epinephrine. Thus, thyroid hormone regulates LPL in rat adipose tissue posttranscriptionally, resulting in parallel changes in LPL synthetic rate, immunoreactive mass, and activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of the malic enzyme and fatty acid synthase genes in chick embryo hepatocytes in culture: corticosterone and carnitine regulate responsiveness to triiodothyronine.	Triiodothyronine (T3) added to chick embryo hepatocytes between 20 and 68 h of culture caused a 30- to 40-fold increase in malic enzyme activity. This T3 response decreased as a function of time; after 1 week in culture, a 48-h incubation with T3 had no effect on hepatocyte malic enzyme activity. Neither corticosterone nor carnitine had a significant effect on malic enzyme activity in the absence of T3 at any time or on the response of malic enzyme to T3 during the first 68 h of culture; both stimulated responsiveness to T3 subsequent to 68 h. The effects of corticosterone and carnitine on malic enzyme activity were additive, suggesting different mechanisms. Corticosterone and carnitine regulated abundance of malic enzyme mRNA. For corticosterone, at least, this effect was due to regulation of transcription. Abundance of fatty acid synthase mRNA was also stimulated by T3 in chick embryo hepatocytes in culture, and its responsiveness to T3 decreased with time. Corticosterone and carnitine stimulated responsiveness to T3 at times subsequent to 68 h. Corticosterone had no effect on binding of T3 to nuclear receptors. Intracellular accumulation of long-chain fatty acids or long-chain acyl-CoAs probably did not cause the loss of responsiveness to T3 or the stimulation of that responsiveness by corticosterone or carnitine because adding serum albumin (0.5%) or long-chain fatty acids (0.25-0.5 mM) to the medium was without effect. Corticosterone and carnitine may control the levels of other metabolic intermediates or protein factors which, in turn, regulate the transcriptional response of the lipogenic genes to T3.
Adrenergic regulation of the mitochondrial uncoupling protein gene in brown fat tumor cells.	A tumor appeared on the back of a transgenic mouse carrying the SV40 T-antigen under control of a mouse major urinary protein promoter. High levels of mRNA for the mitochondrial uncoupling protein (UCP) indicated that the tumor was a hibernoma. The tumor has been established as a transplantable tumor line in nude (nu/nu) mice and used as a source of cells to develop a tissue culture system for analyzing brown fat development and differentiation. Ucp expression in tumor cells cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and 10% fetal calf serum was virtually undetectable. Addition of 10(-7) M norepinephrine resulted in approximately a 30-fold induction of Ucp mRNA within 4 h. The induction by norepinephrine was independent of cell density and also independent of thyroid hormone and insulin during the first 5 days in culture. However, in order to maintain the inducibility of Ucp during prolonged culture periods, it was necessary to supplement the medium with insulin. In contrast to Ucp, the expression of Gdc-1, which encodes the cytoplasmic glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and which is also induced in brown fat by cold exposure, was repressed by norepinephrine and induced by the addition of insulin. Characterization of the adrenergic receptors required for Ucp induction with agonists and antagonists indicated that beta 1 receptors are predominantly utilized; there is no evidence for utilization of beta 3 and alpha 1 receptors for Ucp induction.
Thyroid hormones regulate release and content of vasoactive intestinal peptide in cultured fetal cerebral cortical cells.	The effects of thyroid hormones (TH) on brain immunoreactive-vasoactive intestinal peptide (IR-VIP) secretion and content in cultured fetal rat cortical cells were studied. Cerebral cortical cells were maintained as monolayer cultures for 14-18 days. T3 or T4 (10(-7) M) caused a time-dependent decrease in total IR-VIP. Significant suppression was observed following treatment periods of 6 h or longer (24 and 48 h). Depending on the length of time cells had been deprived of TH prior to the addition of exogenous T3 or T4, these two thyroid hormones had different effects on IR-VIP accumulation. Both T3 and T4 caused a dose-dependent suppression or IR-VIP accumulation when there was no deprivation period or when it lasted 4 h. However, a biphasic effect was observed when cells were deprived of TH for 17 and 24 h: low doses of T3 or T4 (from 10(-12) to 10(-10) M) significantly increased (p less than 0.05) total IR-VIP, while high T3 or T4 doses (10(-8) and 10(-7) M) caused a significant decrease (p less than 0.01). The TH action was furthermore shown to be reversible. After T3 (10(-7) M) removal and subsequent incubation in serum-free medium for 6, 24 and 48 h, T3-treated and control cells exhibited similar levels of IR-VIP release and content. At this time, a new exposure to T3 (10(-7) M) again had a suppressive effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thyroid hormone regulation of Na,K-ATPase subunit-mRNA expression in neonatal rat myocardium.	Regulation of Na,K-ATPase mRNA alpha isoform and mRNA beta expression by thyroid hormone (T3) in neonatal rat myocardium was examined. In euthyroid neonates between ages of 2 and 5 days, mRNA alpha 1, mRNA alpha 3, and mRNA beta 1 abundances were nearly constant while mRNA alpha 2 was undetectable. During the interval between postnatal days 5 and 15, mRNA alpha 3 decreased to negligible levels and mRNA alpha 2 became expressed and increased in abundance to account for approximately 20% of the mRNA alpha pool by the 15th postnatal day. To examine the effect of T3 on this developmental program, neonates were injected with 75 micrograms T3/100 g body weight or diluent alone on the second and third postnatal days and myocardial Na,K-ATPase subunit-mRNA abundances were determined on the third and fourth postnatal days. Because T3 treatment increased the RNA/DNA ratios of myocardial tissue, the subunit-mRNA abundances were normalized per unit DNA. Following 24 and 48 hr of T3 treatment, the abundances of mRNA alpha 1, mRNA alpha 3, and mRNA beta 1 increased, while mRNA alpha 2 continued to remain undetectable during the 2-day interval between the second to fourth postnatal days. It is concluded that T3 augments the abundance of Na,K-ATPase subunit mRNAs that are already being expressed in the neonatal rat myocardium. The results further suggest that T3 does not act as a "molecular switch" in the developmental expression of the mRNA alpha isoforms in rat myocardium during the first four postnatal days.
The role of triiodothyronine-induced substrate cycles in the hepatic response to overnutrition: thyroid hormone as an antioxidant.	Overnutrition, by generating reactive oxygen species (ROS), produces oxidative stress - an important cause of cellular injury. In the liver, overnutrition begins in the perivenous hepatocytes. To prevent injury, cells must protect themselves against ROS accumulation. Overnutrition also activates the enzyme deiodinase-1 (D1), which catalyzes the conversion of T4 to T3. D1 is primarily located in the PV region of the liver. Thyroid hormone is known to generate substrate cycling. The hypothesis of this paper is that a nutrient-induced increase in intracellular T3 acts as an antioxidant by inducing substrate cycles that reduce ROS accumulation. These cycles do this by: (i) reducing ROS formation by hydrolyzing excess ATP, thus enhancing oxidative phosphorylation and reducing the proton motive force on the electron transport chain (ETC), and; (ii) enhancing the removal (reduction) of ROS by producing the NADPH required for regeneration of reduced glutathione, a potent endogenous antioxidant. Oxidative stress is an important factor in the etiology of a number of hepatic injuries, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and hepatocarcinogenesis. In the latter, the frequency of mutations in thyroid hormone receptors (TRs) supports the concept that thyroid hormone acts as a tumor suppressor by reducing oxidative stress. This paper reviews the substrate cycles involved in this process. It also describes other mechanisms that permit rapid availability of T3 to cells undergoing oxidative stress.
The biological significance of mtNOS modulation.	In the last years, nitric oxide synthases (NOS) have been localized in mitochondria. At this site, NO yield directly regulates the activity of cytochrome oxidase, O(2) uptake and the production of reactive oxygen species. Recent studies showed that translocated neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is posttranslationally modified including phosphorylation at Ser 1412 (in mice) and myristoylation in an internal residue. Different studies confirm that modified nNOS alpha is the main modulable isoform in mitochondria. Modulation of mtNOS was observed in different situations, like adaptation to reduced O(2) availability and hypoxia, adaptation to low environmental temperature, and processes linked to life and death by effects on kinases and transcription factors. We present here evidence about the role of mtNOS in the analyzed conditions.
Thyroid hormone calorigenesis and mitochondrial redox signaling: upregulation of gene expression.	Thyroid hormone (TH, T3) is required for the normal function of most tissues, with major effects on O2 consumption and metabolic rate. These are due to transcriptional activation of respiratory genes through the interaction of T3-liganded TH receptors with TH response elements or the activation of intermediate factors, with the consequent higher rates of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and reactive O2 species (ROS) generation and antioxidant depletion. The genomic effects of TH are accompanied by redox upregulation of the liver expression of cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha]), enzymes (manganese superoxide dismutase), and anti-apoptotic proteins (Bcl-2), via a cascade initiated by TNF-alpha produced by Kupffer cells and involving inhibitor of kappa-B phosphorylation and nuclear factor-kappa-B activation. Thus, TH calorigenesis triggers non-genomic effects leading to an expression pattern that may represent an adaptive mechanism to re-establish redox homeostasis and promote cell survival under conditions of ROS toxicity secondary to TH-induced oxidative stress. Mechanisms of expression of respiratory and redox-sensitive genes may be functionally integrated, which could be of importance to understand the complexities of TH action and the outcome of thyroid gland dysfunction.
Molecular basis of thyroid hormone regulation of myelin basic protein gene expression in rodent brain.	Regulation of myelin basic protein (MBP) gene expression by thyroid hormone has been investigated in rodent brain. Quantitation of the 4 major alternatively spliced transcripts by RNase protection assay showed that the individual mRNAs, corresponding to MBP isoforms 21.5, 18.5, 17, and 14 kDa, were decreased from 2- to 17-fold at all ages studied (4-60 days) in hypothyroid animals when compared to euthyroid, but the timing of onset of expression was not altered. MBP mRNA was also reduced in young adult rats thyroidectomized at the age of 5-6 weeks and was restored to normal by thyroxine administration. Nuclear run-off assays showed that the rate of MBP gene transcription is dependent on thyroid state. Co-transfection of MBP (-256/+1)-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase chimeric gene with a plasmid expressing thyroid hormone receptor alpha, and in the presence of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, into NIH3T3 or NG108-15, increased chloramphenicol acetyltransferase expression 4-fold. Using a footprinting technique and Spodoptera frugiperda 9 (Sf9) nuclear extract infected with baculovirus expressing TR alpha, we have identified a single DNA-binding site (-186/-163) for the receptor. A part of this region contains the AGGACA sequence found in thyroid hormone-responsive elements of other 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine-regulated genes. Our finding of a specific hormone-receptor interaction with the MBP promoter region is the first direct demonstration of a thyroid hormone-responsive element in a brain-specific gene.
The role of thyroid hormone calorigenesis in the redox regulation of gene expression.	Thyroid hormone (TH; 3,3',5-triiodothyronine, T3) is required for the normal function of most tissues, with major effects on O(2) consumption and metabolic rate. These are due to transcriptional activation of respiratory genes through the interaction of T3-liganded TH receptors with TH response elements or the activation of intermediate factors, with the consequent higher production of reactive O(2) species (ROS) and antioxidant depletion. T3-induced oxidative stress in the liver triggers the redox upregulation of the expression of cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha], interleukin-10), enzymes (inducible nitric oxide synthase, manganese superoxide dismutase), and anti-apoptotic proteins (Bcl-2), via a cascade initiated by TNF-alpha produced by Kupffer cells, involving inhibitor of kappaB phosphorylation and nuclear factor-kappaB activation. Thus, TH calorigenesis triggers an expression pattern that may represent an adaptive mechanism to re-establish redox homeostasis and promote cell survival under conditions of ROS toxicity secondary to TH-induced oxidative stress. Mechanisms of expression of respiratory and redox-sensitive genes may be functionally integrated, which could be of importance to understand the complexities of TH action and the outcome of thyroid gland dysfunction.
Effect of thyroid hormone on the pre- and post-natal development of the rat testis.	The relationship between thyroid function and testicular development in the rat was investigated. Hypothyroidism was induced during fetal or post-natal life by adding methimazole (MMI) to the drinking water of pregnant or lactating mothers. A group of newborn rats was treated with MMI and i.p. injections of L-tri-iodothyronine (L-T3). Hypothyroidism was shown by the reduced serum levels of total T3 and of total thyroxine (T4) in pregnant mothers and in pubertal rats. Testes were studied using light microscopy at 18 and 21 days post coitum or during puberty (21, 35 and 50 days after birth); serum levels of gonadotrophins were also evaluated in pubertal rats. Hypothyroidism had no effect on testicular development during fetal life and when induced in newborn rats it was associated at puberty with reduced serum levels of FSH and LH and with delayed maturation of the testis compared with control rats. The delay in maturation consisted of a reduction in the diameter of seminiferous tubules, and a reduction in the number of germ cells per tubule; this was associated with increased degeneration and arrested maturation of germ cells. In addition, Sertoli cells demonstrated retarded development, as indicated by a delay in the appearance of cytoplasmic lipids and in the development of a tubule lumen. Hormonal and morphological abnormalities were absent in rats treated with MMI plus L-T3. In conclusion, hypothyroidism occurring soon after birth caused reduced levels of gonadotrophins in the serum and a delay in pubertal spermatogenesis, possibly due to retarded differentiation of the Sertoli cells.
Thyroid hormone and glucocorticoid regulation of receptor and target gene mRNAs in pituitary GH3 cells.	We have examined the effects of triiodothyronine (T3), in dose-response and time-course studies, on T3 receptor (T3R) alpha and beta and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNAs in rate pituitary GH3 cells, in parallel with T3 actions on expression of the growth hormone (GH) target gene. Modulatory influences of dexamethasone (dex) on T3 action were studied by treatment with dex before and during T3 treatment. T3 treatment (1-100 nM) for 24 h reduced T3R alpha mRNA, while the presence of dex (1 microM) enhanced the T3 effect on T3R alpha mRNA and induced T3 inhibition of T3R beta mRNA. Stimulatory effects of T3 treatment on GH mRNA and release were seen in the face of inhibition of T3R mRNAs; these effects on GH were also enhanced by the presence of dex. T3 treatment for 24 h increased GR mRNA; this effect was inhibited by the presence of dex. We next examined the influence of dex on GR and T3R alpha and beta mRNAs, in parallel with effects of dex on the prolactin (PRL) target gene. Modulatory influences of T3 on dex action were studied by treatment of cells with T3 before and during dex treatment. Treatment with dex (0.1-10 microM) for 24 h reduced GR mRNA, an action enhanced by the presence of T3 (100 nM). Dex treatment resulted in inhibition of PRL mRNA and release despite parallel inhibition of GR mRNA by dex; these effects were enhanced by the presence of T3. In contrast to actions on GR, dex has no effect on T3R mRNAs. These effects of T3 and dex on receptor mRNAs suggest that glucocorticoid modulation of T3 action is not related to direct actions on T3R synthesis. In contrast, the mechanism of T3 modulation of glucocorticoid action may be due in part to alteration of GR mRNA expression. Effects of T3 and dex on target gene expression were observed in the presence of parallel reduction of their respective receptor mRNAs. This provides new evidence that interactions between these hormones are likely to be mediated by mechanisms other than regulation of receptor gene expression.
Thyroid hormone promotes insulin-induced glucose uptake by enhancing Akt phosphorylation and VAMP2 translocation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.	The purpose of this study was to test a hypothesis that T3 promotes glucose uptake via enhancing insulin-induced Akt phosphorylation and VAMP2 translocation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. T3 significantly enhanced insulin-induced phosphorylation of Akt, cytoplasma to cell membrane translocations of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) and glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4), and glucose uptake in adipocytes. Akt inhibitor X abolished the promoting effects of T3, suggesting that Akt activation is essential for T3 to enhance these insulin-induced events in adipocytes. Knockdown of VAMP2 using siRNA abrogated the effects of T3 on insulin-induced GLUT4 translocation and glucose uptake, suggesting that VAMP2 is an important mediator of these processes. These data suggest that T3 may promote glucose uptake via enhancing insulin-induced phosphorylation of Akt and subsequent translocations of VAMP2 and GLUT4 in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Akt phosphorylation is necessary for the promoting effects of T3 on insulin-stimulated VAMP2 translocation. Further, VAMP2 is essential for T3 to increase insulin-stimulated translocation of GLUT4 and subsequent uptake of glucose in adipocytes.
Oxidative stress and heart failure in altered thyroid States.	Increased or reduced action of thyroid hormone on certain molecular pathways in the heart and vasculature causes relevant cardiovascular derangements. It is well established that hyperthyroidism induces a hyperdynamic cardiovascular state, which is associated with a faster heart rate, enhanced left ventricular systolic and diastolic function whereas hypothyroidism is characterized by the opposite changes. Hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism represent opposite clinical conditions, albeit not mirror images. Recent experimental and clinical studies have suggested the involvement of ROS tissue damage under altered thyroid status. Altered-thyroid state-linked changes in heart modify their susceptibility to oxidants and the extent of the oxidative damage they suffer following oxidative challenge. Chronic increase in the cellular levels of ROS can lead to a catastrophic cycle of DNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, further ROS generation and cellular injury. Thus, these cellular events might play an important role in the development and progression of myocardial remodeling and heart failure in altered thyroid states (hypo- and hyper-thyroidism). The present review aims at elucidating the various signaling pathways mediated via ROS and their modulation under altered thyroid state and the possibility of antioxidant therapy.
Melanocortin 4 receptor becomes an ACTH receptor by coexpression of melanocortin receptor accessory protein 2.	Melanocortin 2 receptor (MC2R) is the only canonical ACTH receptor. Its functional expression requires the presence of an accessory protein, known as melanocortin receptor 2 accessory protein 1 (MRAP1). The vertebrate genome exhibits a paralogue gene called MRAP2, which is duplicated in zebrafish (MRAP2a and MRAP2b), although its function remains unknown. In this paper, we demonstrate that MRAP2a enables MC4R, a canonical MSH receptor, to be activated by ACTH with a similar sensitivity to that exhibited by MC2R. Both proteins physically interact and are coexpressed in the neurons of the preoptic area, a key region in the control of the energy balance and hypophyseal secretion in fish. ACTH injections inhibit food intake in wild-type zebrafish but not in fish lacking functional MC4R. Both MRAP1 and MRAP2a are hormonally regulated, suggesting that these proteins are substrates for feed-back regulatory pathways of melanocortin signaling. Fasting has no effect on the central expression of MRAP2a but stimulates MRAP2b expression. This protein interacts and is colocalized with MC4R in the tuberal hypothalamic neurons but has no effect on the pharmacologic profile of MC4R. However, MRPA2b is able to decrease basal reporter activity in cell lines expressing MC4R. It is plausible that MRAP2b decreases the constitutive activity of the MC4R during fasting periods, driving the animal toward a positive energy balance. Our data indicate that MRAP2s control the activity of MC4R, opening up new pathways for the regulation of melanocortin signaling and, by extension, for the regulation of the energy balance and obesity. 
Thyroid hormones and skeletal muscle--new insights and potential implications.	Thyroid hormone signalling regulates crucial biological functions, including energy expenditure, thermogenesis, development and growth. The skeletal muscle is a major target of thyroid hormone signalling. The type 2 and 3 iodothyronine deiodinases (DIO2 and DIO3, respectively) have been identified in skeletal muscle. DIO2 expression is tightly regulated and catalyses outer-ring monodeiodination of the secreted prohormone tetraiodothyronine (T4) to generate the active hormone tri-iodothyronine (T3). T3 can remain in the myocyte to signal through nuclear receptors or exit the cell to mix with the extracellular pool. By contrast, DIO3 inactivates T3 through removal of an inner-ring iodine. Regulation of the expression and activity of deiodinases constitutes a cell-autonomous, pre-receptor mechanism for controlling the intracellular concentration of T3. This local control of T3 activity is crucial during the various phases of myogenesis. Here, we review the roles of T3 in skeletal muscle development and homeostasis, with a focus on the emerging local deiodinase-mediated control of T3 signalling. Moreover, we discuss these novel findings in the context of both muscle homeostasis and pathology, and examine how skeletal muscle deiodinase activity might be therapeutically harnessed to improve satellite-cell-mediated muscle repair in patients with skeletal muscle disorders, muscle atrophy or injury. 
Differential effects of triiodothyronine on rat left and right ventricular function and the influence of metoprolol.	The influence of triiodothyronine (T3) on right ventricular functional parameters was tested and compared to the alterations induced in the left ventricle. Female Sprague-Dawley rats received daily injections of T3 (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) for 3 days and a constant i.v. infusion of 0.9% NaCl or the beta 1-receptor blocker metoprolol (1 mg/kg/h). The hyperthyroid state after 3 days administration of T3 was characterized by an increase in heart rate and cardiac output and a decrease in the systemic peripheral resistance. However, pulmonary vascular resistance was unchanged. Beta-Receptor blockade reduced heart rate to the control level without affecting the elevation in cardiac output. The T3 group showed a marked increase in right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) and mean pulmonary artery pressure, whereas left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP) and mean aortic pressure were not significantly changed. Metoprolol had no effect on LVSP, and attenuated the increase in RVSP. Furthermore, T3 induced a considerable increase in dP/dtmax in both ventricles, which was reduced nearly to control level by concomitant metoprolol infusion. The T3-induced percentage weight gain of the right ventricular free wall (RV) was more pronounced than that of the left ventricle (LV) as indicated by the significant increase in the RV/LV weight and the RNA/DNA ratios. Metoprolol did not affect significantly the T3-induced left and right ventricular hypertrophy, but attenuated slightly the elevated RV/LV weight ratio. Our results indicate a different action of T3 on systemic and pulmonary circulation.
Dual regulatory role for thyroid-hormone receptors allows control of retinoic-acid receptor activity.	Both thyroid hormone (T3) and retinoic acid signal essential steps in development, differentiation and morphogenesis. Specific nuclear receptors for these ligands have recently been cloned. Previously we have noted a close homology between the DNA-binding domains of the epsilon-retinoic acid receptor (RAR-epsilon, also designated RAR-beta), the thyroid hormone receptors and the oestrogen receptor. We have now found that RAR-epsilon is very efficient at inducing transcription from two distinct thyroid-hormone responsive elements (TREs). Transcription induced by ligand-activated RAR-epsilon from a TRE can, however, be repressed by thyroid-hormone receptor in the absence of its ligand. Conversely, in the presence of its ligand, thyroid-hormone receptor will activate transcription from a TRE irrespective of the presence of unbound RAR. The use of hybrid receptors has shown that the DNA-binding domain of RAR is the essential target for inhibition by thyroid-hormone receptors. These data, together with in vitro DNA-binding studies, suggest that thyroid-hormone receptors may have dual regulatory roles: in the presence of hormone they function as TRE-specific transcriptional activators; in the absence of hormone, however, they can function as TRE-specific repressors.
Prostaglandin E2 does not inhibit metamorphosis of tadpole tails in tissue culture.	Tadpoles excrete prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in oral mucus and at the same time trap food particles on oral mucus during feeding. Wassersug (1986) suggested that orally excreted and then ingested PGE2 might inhibit premature metamorphosis in anurans. We have tested to see whether PGE2 inhibits thyroid hormone-induced metamorphosis of tadpole tails in tissue culture. It does not. It is still possible that an endocrinologically active component of oral mucus plays a regulatory role in metamorphosis, but it may not act directly on tail tissue or it may not even be PGE2.
The role of insulin and thyroid hormones in the regulation of muscle growth and protein turnover in response to dietary protein in the rat.	1. We have investigated the relations between changes in plasma insulin and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3), and muscle growth and protein turnover in the rat in response to diets of varying protein concentrations. 2. Young rats were fed ad lib. on a control (180 g casein/kg) diet or low-protein diets containing 80, 45 and 0 g casein/kg in four separate experiments. Measurements were made of food intakes, muscle and body-weight growth rates, muscle protein turnover in vivo, plasma insulin, and plasma free and total T3. 3. The food intakes of the 80 and 45 g casein/kg diet groups were variable, with the 80 g casein/kg diet group consuming either the same or more than the controls, and the 45 g casein/kg diet group consuming less or more than the controls. Body-weight and skeletal-muscle growth rates varied with the protein but not energy intakes, which in turn reflected both dietary composition and the food intake, with the hyperphagic 80 g casein/kg diet group of rats growing almost normally and the 0 g casein/kg diet group losing body-weight and muscle mass. 4. Changes in rates of muscle growth were accompanied by parallel changes in rates of protein synthesis and degradation, as well as parallel changes in concentrations of plasma insulin and free T3, to the extent that all these variables were highly correlated with each other. 5. Partial correlation analysis was used to separate interactions between variables. This indicated that dietary energy had no identifiable influence on muscle growth. In contrast dietary protein appeared to stimulate muscle growth directly by increasing muscle RNA content and inhibiting proteolysis, as well as increasing insulin and free T3 levels. Insulin and free T3 stimulated each other as well as muscle protein turnover; insulin stimulating the RNA activity particularly at low insulin levels, free T3 stimulating the RNA content and both hormones stimulating proteolysis. 6. These apparent relations are shown to be consistent in the main part with previous studies of the mechanism of action of insulin and T3, but the possibility cannot be discounted that other anabolic hormones not measured in these studies are involved, particularly in the apparent direct influence of dietary protein on muscle.
Brain lipoprotein lipase is responsive to nutritional and hormonal modulation.	Functional lipoprotein lipase activity was recently described in rat brain. The present study was performed to further characterize the biologic significance of brain lipoprotein lipase (heparin releasable component) and elucidate regulatory factors. Comparative studies were performed on tissue (brain, adipose, and heart) heparin releasable lipoprotein lipase in the fasted and diabetic (streptozotocin 100 mg/kg BW IP) rat. Both fasting (96 hours) and diabetes (ten days) significantly decreased brain (cortical) (P less than .05) and adipose (epididymal fat pad) (P less than .001) lipoprotein lipase activity. In contrast, heart muscle enzyme activity was significantly increased (P less than .001) in response to fasting and diabetes. Refeeding (Purina chow 96 hours) and insulin replacement (96 hours) reversed these changes in tissue lipoprotein lipase consequent to fasting and diabetes, respectively. There was a positive correlation between the changes in serum insulin concentration and adipose lipoprotein lipase, but there was no correlation between this parameter and brain or heart lipoprotein lipase. In addition, although T3 therapy normalized the low T3 state associated with both fasting and diabetes, it had no effect on the enzyme activity in the studied tissues. However, subsequent studies demonstrated that hypothyroidism (2 weeks post thyroidectomy) significantly decreased brain lipoprotein lipase activity (P less than .001) and increased both the adipose (P less than .025) and heart (P less than .025) enzyme activity. T3 replacement (0.8 micrograms/100 BW/d for 1 week) reversed the effects of hypothyroidism. However, the relationship between brain enzyme activity and serum T3 was nonlinear as hyperthyroidism tended to reduce brain LPL activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A c-erb-A binding site in rat growth hormone gene mediates trans-activation by thyroid hormone.	The substance 3,5,3-triiodothyronine (T3) stimulates growth hormone gene transcription in rat pituitary tumour cells. This stimulation is thought to be mediated by the binding of nuclear T3 receptors to regulatory elements 5' to the transcriptional start site. Understanding of the mechanism by which thyroid hormone activates gene transcription has been limited by failure to purify nuclear T3 receptors because of their low abundance, and by the absence of defined T3 receptor-DNA binding sites affecting T3 regulation. Recently, human and avian c-erb-A gene products have been shown to bind thyroid hormone with high affinity and to have a molecular weight and nuclear association characteristic of the thyroid hormone receptor. In the present report, we describe the development of an avidin-biotin complex DNA-binding assay which can detect specific, high-affinity binding of rat pituitary cell T3 receptors to the sequence 5'CAGGGACGTGACCGCA3', located 164 base pairs 5' to the transcriptional start site of the rat growth hormone gene. An oligonucleotide containing this sequence transferred T3 regulation to the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase promoter in transfected rat pituitary GC2 cells, and specifically bound an in vitro translation product of the human placental c-erb-A gene. The data provide supporting evidence that the human c-erb-A gene product mediates the transcriptional effects of T3 and also that GC2 cell nuclear extracts contain additional factors that modify the binding of pituitary T3 receptors to the rat growth hormone gene T3 response element.
Thyroid hormones influence the development of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors in the rat: a mechanism for the effects of postnatal handling on the development of the adrenocortical stress response.	The role of thyroid hormones on the development of intracellular glucocorticoid receptor concentrations was examined in the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and pituitary of the rat. Adult animals, administered triiodothyronine (T3; 1.0 micrograms/g body weight) on days 1, 2, and 4 of life or thyroxine (T4; 2.5 micrograms/g body weight) on days 1 and 2 of life, had significantly elevated glucocorticoid receptor concentrations in the hippocampus, but not in hypothalamus or pituitary. Adult animals treated with propylthiouracil (PTU; 0.2% in the mother's food), a thyroid hormone synthesis inhibitor, for the first 2 weeks of life showed decreased glucocorticoid receptor concentrations in hippocampus, but not in hypothalamus or pituitary. We then examined whether thyroid hormones might mediate the effects of early stimulation on the development of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor concentrations. Animals that were handled for 15 min daily (Ha) for the first 2 weeks of life showed increased hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor concentrations as adults compared to nonhandled (NHa) controls. PTU administration blocked the effects of handling, such that Ha/PTU animals showed hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor concentrations that were indistinguishable from those of NHa animals. In contrast, corticosterone administration over the first 2 weeks of life had no effect on adult hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor concentrations. These data suggest that thyroid hormones mediate, in part at least, the development of glucocorticoid receptor concentrations in the hippocampus and that this effect occurs independently of their effects on corticosterone titers.
Effect of thyroidectomy on the water-eliminating function of the kidneys in puppies]	Removal of the thyroid gland in puppies in the early postnatal period (10--20 days) suppressed the hemodynamics and the glomerular filtration, increased concentration of urine in the tubules of the kidney and reduced spontaneous diuresis. Two months after the operation, a progressive disturbance of the osmotic concentration of urine occurred, and the diuresis increased. Thyroidectomized puppies at different age are unable to react to water deprivation, to develop osmotic diuresis; the elimination of water load is lesioned. In the first 6 months the introduced water is retained in the organism. The thyroid hormones are essential for the water elimination and concentrating functions of the kidney, for its adequate hemodynamics.
The regulatory role of tri-iodothyronine on the production of alpha-fetoprotein and albumin by mouse fetal liver cells.	The purpose of this study was to assess possible effects of tri-iodothyronine (T3) on the production of alpha fetoprotein (AFP) and albumin by mouse fetal liver cells. AFP from serum-free conditioned media of TIB73 mouse fetal liver cells was measured by immunoradiometric assay and albumin was measured by chromogenic assay. The expression of mRNAs was quantified by Northern blotting analysis. A marked inhibition of AFP secretion was found as well as an increase in albumin produced by T3 in a dose-dependent manner. The effects of T3 AFP and albumin secretion paralleled the effects of T3 on the steady-state expression of mRNAs encoding albumin and AFP. These data may point to a possible role of T3 in the transcriptional switch from AFP to albumin during fetal development and may explain the observation of high levels of AFP in cases of congenital hypothyroidism.
A serum-free defined medium capable of supporting growth of four established human prostatic carcinoma cell lines.	This paper describes a serum-free defined medium (Gc) that was initially designed to support growth of the human prostatic carcinoma cell line LNCaP. Our studies indicate that this medium formulation is capable of supporting short-term, long-term, and clonal growth of the LNCaP cell line. Component deletion experiments have shown that the three most critical components for LNCaP short-term growth are insulin, triiodothyronine (T3), and fetuin. Additionally, this medium was found to support short-term and clonal growth of three other human prostatic carcinoma cell lines, DU 145, PC-3, and ALVA-31. The availability of such a medium should aid in the distinction of the regulatory factors involved in growth and differentiation of malignant prostatic epithelium.
Triiodothyronine reduces growth hormone secretion and pituitary growth hormone mRNA in the chicken, in vivo and in vitro.	The influence of triiodothyronine (T3) on growth hormone (GH) mRNA and GH secretion has been examined in the chicken. Initially T3 treatment in the diet for three days did not alter plasma concentrations of GH. Plasma concentrations of GH were depressed with seven and 14 days of T3 treatment (1 or 5 ppm in the diet). There was a concomitant decline in pituitary GH mRNA with T3 treatment. Pituitary GH content was reduced with 14 but not seven days of T3 treatment. No effect of T3 was observed on the percentage by somatotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland by fluorescence flow cytometry analysis. While exposure of pituitary cells in vitro from young chickens to GHRF for 2 hr increased GH mRNA, no effect was observed with T3. The presence of T3, for 48 hr in vitro, tended to reduce GH mRNA in adenohypophyseal cells from young chickens and decreased GH mRNA with anterior pituitary cells from adult chicks. It is concluded that T3 chronic administration of T3 depresses circulating concentrations of GH, at least in part, by decreasing GH mRNA and hence GH synthesis.
Regulation of Na,K-ATPase beta 1 mRNA content by thyroid hormone in neonatal rat cardiac myocytes.	Incubation of primary cultures of neonatal rat cardiac myocytes in the presence of 100 nM triiodothyronine (T3) resulted in a three- to fivefold increase in the content of Na,K-ATPase beta 1 subunit mRNA which was maximal at 1 d of exposure to hormone. To investigate the mechanism by which T3 stimulates the abundance of beta 1 mRNA, transient transfection experiments were conducted with a chimeric gene containing a portion of the 5' end of the rat beta 1 gene linked to a luciferase reporter gene. We found no effect of T3 on chimeric gene activity either in the absence or presence of cotransfected T3 receptor. The effect of T3 on the transcription rate of the endogenous beta 1 gene was quantitated by the nuclear run-on assay. T3 had no effect on beta 1 gene transcription following either 1 or 3 d of exposure and yielded a 1.3-fold increase at 6 d. These data indicate that T3 induction of Na,K-ATPase beta 1 mRNA content in neonatal rat cardiac myocytes in vitro is primarily mediated at a post-transcriptional site.
Recessive resistance to thyroid hormone in mice lacking thyroid hormone receptor beta: evidence for tissue-specific modulation of receptor function.	The diverse functions of thyroid hormone (T3) are presumed to be mediated by two genes encoding the related receptors, TRalpha and TRbeta. However, the in vivo functions of TRalpha and TRbeta are undefined. Here, we report that targeted inactivation of the mouse TRbeta gene results in goitre and elevated levels of thyroid hormone. Also, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), which is released by pituitary thyrotropes and which is normally suppressed by increased levels of thyroid hormone, was present at elevated levels in homozygous mutant (Thrb-/-) mice. These findings suggest a unique role for TRbeta that cannot be substituted by TRalpha in the T3-dependent feedback regulation of TSH transcription. Thrb-/- mice provide a recessive model for the human syndrome of resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) that exhibits a similar endocrine disorder but which is typically caused by dominant TRbeta mutants that are transcriptional inhibitors. It is unknown whether TRalpha, TRbeta or other receptors are targets for inhibition in dominant RTH; however, the analysis of Thrb-/- mice suggests that antagonism of TRbeta-mediated pathways underlies the disorder of the pituitary-thyroid axis. Interestingly, in the brain, the absence of TRbeta may not mimic the defects often associated with dominant RTH, since no overt behavioural or neuroanatomical abnormalities were detected in Thrb-/- mice. These data define in vivo functions for TRbeta and indicate that specificity in T3 signalling is conferred by distinct receptor genes.
Effect of thyroid hormones on the modulation of genetic expression of liver cytosolic malic enzyme, in rats poisoned with hexachlorobenzene]	Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) is a widespread environmental pollutant. Chronic exposure of laboratory animals to HCB triggers porphyria, induction of liver microsomal enzymes, low levels of T4 reproductive dysfunction's, liver and thyroid tumors. Previous findings from our laboratory have shown that HCB increased the activity of the liver thyroid-responsive enzymes: malic enzyme (ME), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) without any change in the mytochondrial alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (alpha-GPD). In this study we have demonstrated that HCB treatment increased ME mRNA. We also have investigated if HCB affected: a) the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) concentration and binding affinity for its ligands, b) specifically the ME gene expression, or other thyroid hormone responsive enzymes were affected as well, c) Protein/DNA complex formed on the thyroid responsive element (TRE). Livers from female Wistar rats intoxicated with HCB (100 mg/100 g b.w.), for 9 and 15 days, were analyzed. Northern blot hybridization analysis, have demonstrated that ME mRNA levels increased 4 times and 2 times after 9 and 15 days intoxication respectively, without any alterations in the mRNA levels of other thyroid hormone responsive enzymes such as glyceraldheyde 3- phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphoenolpyruvatecarboxikinase and alpha-GPD. These results suggest that HCB affects specifically, ME gene expression. Hepatic T3 and T4 levels evaluated by RIA were not affected by HCB. Scatchard analyses showed that TR affinity and number of sites were not altered after 9 and 15 days of HCB treatment (control, Ka: 1.9 nM, Bmax 3.9 f/mol 100 micrograms DNA: HCD 9 days Ka: 2.1 nM, Bmax 4.5 fmol/100 micrograms DNA: HCB 15 days Ka 1.9 nM. Bmax 5.1 fmol/100 micrograms DNA intoxication, neither at 9 nor at 15 days. Electrophoresis mobility shift assay showed that HCB did not modify nuclear protein extract affinity for the TREs sequence. Our results suggest that TR itself was not directly involved in the induction of ME gene expression by HCB. Nevertheless TR could interact with other transcription factors in the overexpression of ME gene.
