Thyroid hormone responsive protein (THRP) mediates thyroid hormone-induced cytotoxicity in primary neuronal cultures.	The thyroid hormone responsive protein (THRP) is a novel gene product that remains responsive to thyroid hormone (TH) in the cerebral cortex of adult rats. To study the effects of THRP on neuronal cell survival, primary neurons cultured from rats at embryonic day 19 were treated with either 10(-7) mol L(-1) 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T(3)), or 10(-7) mol L(-1) L: -thyroxine (T(4)). This resulted in decreasing neuronal cell number starting 48 h after treatment. T(3) -related cytotoxicity was also documented by measurement of lactate dehydrogenase release into the medium and by propidium iodide staining. Treatment of cells with 10(-7) mol L(-1) T(3) resulted in a significant increase in THRP mRNA levels as early as 24 h of treatment in a concentration-dependent manner. T(3) treatment did not alter glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH) mRNA levels. Exogenous expression of THRP by transfecting cells with a THRP expression construct (pSVL-THRP) was associated with a significant increase in cell death as measured by the increased number of propidium iodide staining cells (18.0+/-2.1 cells per field) compared with mock-transfected cells (3.3+/-0.2), P<0.002. To further document THRP-induced cytotoxicity, the cells were either transfected with pSVL (empty vector)+pSV2neo (neomycin resistance vector for cell labeling), pSVL-THRP+pSV2neo, or pSVL-THRP+pc-Abl (cAbl tyrosine kinase expressing vector)+pSV2neo. After 24 h the cells were treated with 500 microg mL(-1) G418 (a congener of neomycin) to eliminate the non-transfected cells. Transfection with pSVL-THRP reduced neuronal survival relative to cells transfected with pSVL (356+/-15.6 compared with 145+/-16.9, P<0.05). Co-transfection of THRP with wild-type c-Abl did not alter the effect of THRP on cell survival. It is concluded that THRP is an important factor in TH-induced neuronal cell death.
Thiol redox status critically influences mitochondrial response to thyroid hormone-induced hepatic oxidative injury: A temporal analysis.	Liver is a major target organ for thyroid hormone. The objective of the present study was to investigate temporal regulation of mitochondrial glutathione and protein-bound thiol redox status in hyperthyroid liver. Mitochondria were isolated from control and hyperthyroid rat liver tissues at different time intervals, i.e., 24, 72, and 120 h following treatment, and sub-fractionated into sub-mitochondrial particles (SMPs) and matrix fractions. Increased prooxidant levels were indicative of oxidative stress in hyperthyroid mitochondria. Sensitivity to membrane lipid peroxidation (LPx) was maximal after 24 h, which subsided with time. Oxidative damage to proteins was evident as high carbonylation after 72 h; thiol residue damage was an early phenomenon. Reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG) pools of mitochondria were progressively depleted, thereby, impairing matrix antioxidant capacity. However, adaptations to withstand oxidative challenge were elicited in both SMPs and matrix fractions over the long term. It is concluded that maintenance of appropriate intra-mitochondrial glutathione and protein-bound thiol redox status could be instrumental in attenuating thyroid hormone-induced oxidative stress.
Potassium contractures and asymmetric charge movement in extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles from thyrotoxic rats.	Potassium contractures and asymmetric charge movement were recorded from extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus muscle from normal rats and rats that had been made thyrotoxic by daily intraperitoneal injections of triiodothyronine (150 micrograms kg-1) for two to three weeks. Potassium contracture tension (relative to tetanic tension) in thyrotoxic rats was greater in EDL muscles and smaller in soleus muscles than in normal rats. As the relationship between membrane potential and potassium concentration was unaltered by thyroid treatment, it was concluded that the changes in potassium contracture tension were due to changes in excitation-contraction coupling. In thyrotoxic rats there was an average negative shift of -5 mV in the voltage sensitivity of tension in EDL fibres and a positive shift of 5 mV in soleus. As a result, the tension-membrane potential curves for EDL and soleus fibres essentially coincided. There was a corresponding average negative shift of -4 mV in the voltage sensitivity of asymmetric charge in EDL fibres, and a positive shift of 4 mV in soleus fibres from thyrotoxic rats. The dependence of asymmetric charge movement on membrane potential became essentially the same in EDL and soleus fibres from thyrotoxic rats. The maximum asymmetric charge in soleus fibres increased from an average value of 6.5 nC microF-1 in normal rats (n = 33) to 8.9 nC microF-1 in thyrotoxic rats (n = 32; p less than 0.005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Some functional changes in experimentally induced cardiac overload.	In connection with the elucidation of the mechanisms of the acute and chronic haemodynamic stress during cardiac overloading, as well as in investigations on the role of neurotransmitter systems in the genesis of myocardial hypertrophy (MH), we carried out a complex of studies involving modelling of MH induced by treatment of rats with isoprenaline (ISO.) and of rabbits with thyreotom (Tri-iodothyronin +L-Thyroxin). With a view to studying some pathogenetic factors participating in the characteristics of the reproduced pathological states, combinations with oxprenolol, atropine, phentolamine (Phent.) and amino-oxyacetic acid (AOAA), which is a GABA-inhibitor, were also applied. The results of the ECG studies performed are the main object of the present article. Marked MH was found in rats injected for 12 days with Iso. in doses of 2 mg/kg, as well as in rabbits which received thyreotom (accompanied with development of arterial hypertension). Considerable functional and morphological damage (with subendocardial fibrous proliferations) were discovered in rats treated with Iso. +Phent. The combinations of oxprenolol and AOAA manifested a protective effect to rabbits with thyrotoxic disturbances. Evident is also the essential role played by the adrenergic mechanisms in MH pathogenesis.
Epithelial cell proliferation in thymic hyperplasia induced by triiodothyronine.	A significant hyperplasia of the thymus was induced in mice, treated with triiodothyronine during the first month of life. Stereological data showed that, in both treated and control mice, mononucleate epithelial cells were four times more numerous in the medulla that in the cortex. After triiodothyronine treatment, their absolute number in both cortex and medulla increased two-fold. The number of thymic epithelial cells could thus be regulated by thyroid hormones. The cortical volume in treated mice was also twice that of controls but medullar volume showed and increase of only fifty percent. Cortical epithelial cells increased at the same rate of the cortex volume by medullary epithelial cells grew more rapidly. In fact the medullary volume enlargement could be be explained mainly by the growth of the epithelium. Medullary lymphocytes did thus not preliferate in the same way as cortical lymphocytes after thyroid hormone administration. The recently described multinucleate epithelial cells were not modified in number and were thus insensitive to thyroid hormones.
