Characterization of isomeric allylic diols resulting from chlorophyll phytyl side-chain photo- and autoxidation by electron ionization gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.	The electron ionization (EI) mass spectral fragmentation of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of 3-methylidene-7,11,15-trimethylhexadecane-1,2-diol, Z- and E-3,7,11,15-tetramethylhexadec-3-ene-1,2-diols and Z- and E-3,7,11,15-tetramethylhexadec-2-ene-1,4-diols resulting from chlorophyll phytyl side-chain photo- and autoxidation was investigated. Different pathways (substantiated by deuterium labelling) were proposed in order to explain the main fragmentation observed. Then, some sufficiently specific fragment ions were selected and used to characterize these compounds in natural environmental samples.
Demonstration of long-chain n-alkyl caffeates and delta7-steryl glucosides in the bark of Acacia species by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	The GC-MS identification of several abundant long-chain aliphatic n-alkyl caffeates, together with other phydroxycinnamic acid esters, in the dichloromethane extracts of the bark of Acacia dealbata and A. melanoxylon, is reported. In addition, the unambiguous differentiation between two delta7-steryl glucosides (namely, spinasteryl glucoside and dihydrospinasteryl glucosides) and the homologous delta5-steryl glucosides was achieved based on the EI-MS fragmentation features of their trimethylsilyl derivatives.
Relative gas-liquid chromatographic retention factors of trimethylsilyl ethers of diradylglycerols on polar capillary columns.	Gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) on polar capillary columns provides a highly reproducible resolution and quantitation of molecular species of diradylglycerols when analyzed as the trimethylsilyl (TMS) ethers. In the absence of peak collection and determination of fatty acids or mass spectrometry, peak identification is obtained on the basis of relative retention times of reference standards or of relative retention times calculated from the additive contributions of component fatty chains. Unlike simple esters, complex mixtures of diradylglycerols present special problems in GLC peak identification, which must be attended to by auxiliary separations prior to GLC analysis. In the present study the positional sn-1,2(2,3)- and X-1,3-isomers were resolved by borate thin-layer chromatography (TLC) while the alkenylacyl-, alkylacyl- and diacylglycerols were separated as their TMS ethers by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The diradylglycerol nature of the sample was further verified by GLC determination of the carbon number distribution, which must be consistent with the composition of the fatty chains of the sample. Under these conditions the identification and quantitation of the molecular species on the polar capillary columns was always consistent with the total fatty acid composition of the sample, as well as with the fatty acid composition of any argentation TLC fractions isolated from some of the samples prior to the polar capillary GLC. Due to the great complexity of the natural diradylglycerol mixtures some peak overlaps occurred, which were reflected in their relative retention times. Nevertheless, a determination of diradylglycerol peak identity from relative retention times proved very satisfactory provided the above described procedures were employed.
In vivo metabolism of the methyl homologues of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and abn-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse.	Methyl-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (methyl-delta-8-THC), methyl-delta-9-THC and abn-methyl-delta-8-THC were synthesized by condensation of orcinol and (1S)-cis-verbenol and were administered to male Charles River CD-1 mice. Extracted hepatic metabolites were isolated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), (2H9)TMS and methyl ester/TMS derivatives. In addition, metabolic fractions were reduced with lithium aluminium deuteride to convert carboxylic acids to alcohols for structural correlation. Metabolites from methyl-delta-8-THC were similar with respect to the positions substituted to those produced by higher homologues; the major metabolite was methyl-delta-8-THC-11-oic acid. abn-Methyl-delta-8-THC was metabolized in a different manner. The location of the aromatic methyl group at the position adjacent to ring fusion appeared to inhibit metabolism at C(11) to a considerable extent and also to reduce the amount of the resulting alcohol from being oxidized to a carboxylic acid. This caused other metabolic pathways to become dominant, with the result that a compound containing a hydroxy group at the gem-methyl position was the major metabolite. Hydroxylation at this position has not been confirmed with any other cannabinoid, although it is thought to result in trace concentrations of hydroxy metabolites from some compounds. Metabolism of methyl-delta-9-THC was also similar to that of the higher homologues, with the exception that less metabolism occurred at C(8) and a higher percentage of the total metabolic fraction was accounted for by the 11-oic acid metabolite. Minor metabolites were mainly dihydroxy compounds and hydroxylated derivatives of delta-9-THC-11-oic acid.
A comparative study of methyl ester trimethylsilyl, allyldimethylsilyl and tert-butyldimethylsilyl ethers for electron impact mass spectrometry of leukotrienes.	The gas chromatographic and mass spectrometric properties of leukotriene B4, 20-hydroxy-leukotriene B4 and 20-carboxy-leukotriene-B4 were investigated as their methyl ester trimethylsilyl, methyl ester allyldimethylsilyl and methyl ester tert-butyldimethylsilyl ethers. The gas chromatographic properties of the trimethylsilyl and tert-butyldimethylsilyl ether derivatives were good with respect to peak shape and sensitivity, whereas the allyldimethylsilyl ether derivative gave a lower sensitivity. The sensitivity defined as the quantity that could be passed through the gas chromatographic column. The three derivatives showed a mass spectrometric fragmentation pattern with cleavage of the C12-C13 bond as an important feature. Particularly, the allyldimethylsilyl ether derivative of the three compounds studied exhibited a high tendency for C12-C13 bond cleavage resulting in a fairly intense ion at m/z 435. However, the mass spectra indicated multiple fragmentation pathways due to the presence of double bonds, leading to decreased intensities of the high mass ions. A quantitative analysis by selected ion monitoring of the most intense high mass ions in the respective mass spectrum demonstrated that neither derivative would allow measurements in the low picogram range. Catalytic hydrogenation of the double bonds was performed and the methyl ester trimethylsilyl, methyl ester allyldimethylsilyl and methyl ester tert-butyldimethylsilyl ether derivatives of the reduced compounds were prepared. Saturation of the double bonds increased the gas chromatographic sensitivity for the three derivatives as well as the intensities of the high mass ions in their mass spectra. The high sensitivity that can be obtained by measurement of such high mass ions was demonstrated by quantification of leukotriene B4 in lung tissue samples by selected ion monitoring.
Determination of zeranol/zearalenone and their metabolites in edible animal tissue by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection and confirmation by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.	A sensitive method is described for the determination and confirmation of zeranol and zearalenone, as well as their isomers and metabolites, in edible animal tissue. The analytes are extracted from tissue with methanol, hydrolyzed enzymatically, cleaned up by acid-base partitioning, determined by liquid chromatography (LC) with electrochemical (EC) detection, and confirmed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). LC analysis is performed by isocratic elution with a buffered mobile phase using a Nova-Pak reverse-phase C18 column with amperometric EC detection at +0.90 V. Capillary GC/MS analysis of the trimethylsilyl derivatives provides mass spectral confirmations.
Gas chromatographic determination of N-nitrosodialkanolamines in herbicide Di- or trialkanolamine formulations.	A modified method is presented to determine trace quantities of N-nitrosodiethanolamine (NDElA) and N-nitrosodiisopropanolamine (NDiPlA) in the triisopropanolamine (TiPlA) formulation of a mixture of picloram and 2,4-D. Aqueous sample is extracted with dichloromethane to remove organic interferences, and then the aqueous layer is passed sequentially through chloride anion exchange column, hydrogen cation exchange column, and Clin-Elut extraction tube. The final eluate, 10% acetone in ethyl acetate, is concentrated. The isolated nitrosamines are converted to the corresponding trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives and determined by gas chromatography (GC) on a DB1 column coupled with a thermal energy analyzer (GC-TEA). Eight samples of commercial TiPlA formulations are analyzed. Maximum detected levels of NDElA and NDiPlA were 0.6 and 0.9 ppm, respectively, expressed relative to total weight of active ingredients. Analysis of 13 samples of herbicide DElA formulation using a previously established method and a DB225 column gave NDElA results of 0.7-6.0 ppm. NDiPlA was not detected in those samples. Results are confirmed by GC-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) with oxygen negative chemical ionization (ONCI) detection. Detection limits for both nitrosamines are 0.05 or 0.07 ng (0.1 or 0.17 ppm) for GC-TEA detection, depending on the analytical columns used, and 20 pg (0.04 ppm) for GC/MS detection. Recoveries of NDElA are 87-109% for DElA formulation spiked at 2.6 and 3.9 ppm and 90-115% for TiPlA formulation spiked at 0.2-0.3 ppm. Similarly, recoveries of NDiPlA are 95.7-100% for the DElA formulation spiked at 0.24 and 0.48 ppm, and 82-118% for the TiPlA formulation spiked at 0.2-0.3 ppm.
Characterization of trimethylsilyl derivatives of cerebrosides by direct inlet-chemical ionization mass spectrometry.	Submicrogram quantities of trimethylsilyl derivatives of cerebrosides obtained from the spleen of a patient with Gaucher's disease and from bovine brain were analyzed by direct probe inlet-chemical ionization mass spectrometry, using isobutane as the reagent gas. Quasimolecular ions (QM+, M + 73) and other recognizable fragment ions produced by the successive elimination of trimethylsilanol and sugar residue gave useful information about fatty acid compositions. These ions could also be utilized for qualitative analyses of the molecular species of cerebrosides. Cerebrosides with non-hydroxy and hydroxy fatty acids could be discriminated from each other by comparing the intensities of their quasimolecular ions. Cerebrosides with saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids could also be discrimnated from each other, because the mass number decreased by two mass units in cerebrosides with monounsaturated fatty acids. It was concluded that structural information and molecular species determination could be obtained from small amounts of purified cerebrosides.
Selective introduction of TMS groups in tryptamines: preparation of N1-TMS derivatives of tryptamines.	Indolethylamines (tryptamines) with a primary animofunction react with Regisil under controlled conditions to yield a mono TMS derivative. Mass spectrometry to these derivatives shows that the TMS group is substituted on the indolic nitrogen (N1) and not the primary amino nitrogen. This is confirmed by converting these compounds to their isothiocyanate derivatives. The GC and GC-MS data of some typical compounds are presented.
