The amino acid sequences of the carboxyl termini of human and mouse hepatic lipase influence cell surface association.	Human hepatic lipase (hHL) mainly exists cell surface bound, whereas mouse HL (mHL) circulates in the blood stream. Studies have suggested that the carboxyl terminus of HL mediates cell surface binding. We prepared recombinant hHL, mHL, and chimeric proteins (hHLmt and mHLht) in which the carboxyl terminal 70 amino acids of hHL were exchanged with the corresponding sequence from mHL. The hHL, mHL, and hHLmt proteins were catalytically active using triolein and tributyrin as substrates. In transfected cells, the majority of hHLs bound to the cell surface, with only 4% of total extracellular hHL released into heparin-free media, whereas under the same conditions, 61% of total extracellular mHLs were released. Like mHL, hHLmt showed decreased cell surface binding, with 68% of total extracellular hHLmt released. To determine the precise amino acid residues involved in cell surface binding, we prepared a truncated hHL mutant (hHL471) by deleting the carboxyl terminal five residues (KRKIR). The hHL471 also retained hydrolytic activity with triolein and tributyrin, and showed decreased cell surface binding, with 40% of total extracellular protein released into the heparin-free media. These data suggest that the determinants of cell surface binding exist within the carboxyl terminal 70 amino acids of hHL, of which the last five residues play an important role.
Gas chromatographic investigation of acrylamide formation in browning model systems.	Acrylamide formed in browning model systems was analyzed using a gas chromatograph with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector. Asparagine alone produced acrylamide via thermal degradation at the level of 0.99 microgram/g of asparagine. When asparagine was heated with triolein-which produced acrolein at the level of 1.82 +/- 0.31 (n = 5) mg/L of headspace by heat treatment-acrylamide was formed at the level of 88.6 microgram/g of asparagine. When acrolein gas was sprayed onto asparagine heated at 180 degrees C, a significant amount of acrylamide was formed (114 microgram/g of asparagine). On the other hand, when acrolein gas was sprayed onto glutamine under the same conditions, only a trace amount of acrylamide was formed (0.18 microgram/g of glutamine). Relatively high levels of acrylamide (753 microgram/g of ammonia) were formed from ammonia and acrolein heated at 180 degrees C in the vapor phase. The reaction of acrylic acid, which is an oxidation product of acrolein and ammonia, produced a high level of acrylamide (190 000 microgram/g of ammonia), suggesting that ammonia and acrolein play an important role in acrylamide formation in lipid-rich foods. Acrylamide can be formed from asparagine alone via thermal degradation, but carbonyl compounds, such as acrolein, promote its formation via a browning reaction.
Purification and characterization of an extracellular lipase from Geotrichum marinum.	An extracellular lipase (EC 3.1.1.3) from Geotrichum marinum was purified 76-fold with 46% recovery using Octyl Sepharose 4 Fast Flow and Bio-Gel A 1.5 m chromatography. The purified enzyme showed a prominent band on SDS-PAGE and a single band on native PAGE based on the activity staining. The molecular mass of the lipase was estimated to be 62 kDa using SDS-PAGE and Bio-Gel A chromatography, indicating that the lipase likely functions as a monomer. The pl of the lipase was determined to be 4.54. The apparent V(max) and Km were 1000 micromol/min/mg protein and 11.5 mM, respectively, using olive oil emulsified with taurocholic acid as substrate. The lipase demonstrated a pH optimum at pH 8.0 and a temperature optimum at 40 degrees C. At 6 mM, Na+, K+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ stimulated activity, but Na+ and K+ at 500 mM and Fe2+ and Mn2+ at 6 mM reduced lipase activity. The anionic surfactant, taurocholic acid, and the zwitterionic surfactant, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate, enhanced the activity at 0.1 mM. Other anionic surfactants such as SDS and sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate, the cationic surfactants methylbenzethonium bromide and cetyltriethylammonium bromide, and the nonionic surfactants Tween-20 and Triton X-100 inhibited the lipase activity to different extents. The lipase was found to have a preference for TG containing cis double bonds in their FA side chains, and the reaction rate increased with an increasing number of double bonds in the side chain. The lipase had a preference for ester bonds at the sn-1 and sn-3 positions over the ester bond at the sn-2 position.
Method for testing the aquatic toxicity of sediment extracts for use in identifying organic toxicants in sediments.	Biologically directed fractionation techniques are a fundamental tool for identifying the cause of toxicity in environmental samples, but few are available for studying mixtures of organic chemicals in aquatic sediments. This paper describes a method for extracting organic chemicals from sediments and then re-introducing them into water column toxicity tests in a way that mimics, at least in part, the partitioning processes that govern bioavailability in sediment. This involves transferring solvent extracts of sediment into triolein and then placing the mixture inside low-density polyethylene dialysis tubing in a configuration similar to semipermeable membrane devices (SPMDs) used for environmental monitoring. For four model compounds, SPMDs were shown to effectively maintain water column exposure in static systems for 10-14 d, with partition coefficients similar to K(OW). Toxicity tests indicated that the SPMDs were compatible with four of five freshwater organisms tested and could be used to measure both lethal and sublethal end points. An example application showed good correspondence between organism responses in intactsediment and extracts in SPMDsfor both field-collected and spiked sediments. The SPMD-based method offers a simple, flexible test design, amenable to several different test organisms, and the ability to work with complex mixtures of contaminants while maintaining partitioning behavior similar to that within intact sediments.
Biodiesel production using anionic ion-exchange resin as heterogeneous catalyst.	The transesterification reactions of triolein with ethanol using various ion-exchange resin catalysts were conducted to produce ethyl oleate as a biodiesel. The anion-exchange resins exhibited much higher catalytic activities than the cation-exchange resin. The anion-exchange resin with a lower cross-linking density and a smaller particle size gave a high reaction rate as well as a high conversion. By combining the three-step regeneration method, the resin could be repeatedly used for the batch transesterification without any loss in the catalytic activity. A continuous transesterification reaction was carried out using an expanded bed reactor packed with the most active resin. The reactor system permitted the continuous production of ethyl oleate with a high conversion.
Selective removal of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) from aqueous solution by triolein-embedded composite adsorbent.	A novel composite adsorbent (CA-T) was used for the selective removal of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) from aqueous solution. The adsorbent was composed of the supporting activated carbon and the surrounding triolein-embedded cellulose acetate membrane. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), N2 adsorption isotherms and fluorescence methods were used to characterize the physicochemical properties of CA-T. Triolein was perfectly embedded in the cellulose acetate membrane and deposited on the surface of activated carbon. The adsorbent was stable in water and no triolein leakage was detected during the test periods. Some organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), such as dieldrin, endrin, aldrin, and heptachlor epoxide, were used as model contaminants and removed by CA-T in laboratory batch experiments. The adsorption isotherm followed the Freundlich equation and the kinetic data fitted well to the pseudo-second-order reaction model. Results also indicated that CA-T appeared to be a promising adsorbent with good selectivity and satisfactory removal rate for lipophilic OCPs from aqueous solutions when present in trace amounts. The adsorption rate and removal efficiency for lipophilic OCPs were positively related to their octanol-water partition coefficients (log K(ow)). Lower residual concentrations of OCPs were achieved when compared to granular activated carbon (GAC).
Accurate quantification of freely dissolved organochlorine pesticides in water in the presence of dissolved organic matter using triolein-embedded cellulose acetate membrane.	A novel method is described using triolein-embedded cellulose acetate membrane (TECAM) for accurate determination of the freely dissolved fraction of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) in waters rich in dissolved organic matter (DOM). The performance of the method was tested with an air-bridge system for extracting OCPs from aqueous solutions with and without humic acid. In addition, the partition coefficients between humic acid and water (K (doc)s) for 20 OCPs were determined by TECAM with negligible depletion extraction. Results show that TECAM predominantly extracts the freely dissolved compounds and its extraction efficiency decreases significantly with an increase in concentration of humic acid in water. The proposed methodology is suitable for facile laboratory K (doc) measurement for moderate to high hydrophobic compounds (log K (ow) > 4). The linear relationship between log K (ow) and log K (doc) obtained in this study agrees well with the results reported earlier. The kinetic uptake rate constants (k (u)s) and TECAM-water partition coefficients (K (TECAM)s) for the 20 OCPs were obtained using the controlled laboratory continuous-flow and static exposure system, respectively. These calibration parameters were used in the field experiment to estimate the freely dissolved concentrations of OCPs in the water of Taihu Lake in China. Our results show that TECAM can be used successfully to determine the freely dissolved OCPs in aquatic environments containing DOM, and the method is particularly suited for long-term water sampling. Figure Schematic diagram of water sampling with a triolein-embedded cellulose acetate membrane (TECAM).
Formulation considerations of gadolinium lipid nanoemulsion for intravenous delivery to tumors in neutron-capture therapy.	The effects of the formulation and particle composition of gadolinium (Gd)-containing lipid nanoemulsion (Gd-nanoLE) on the biodistribution of Gd after its intravenous (IV) injection in D(1)-179 melanoma-bearing hamsters were evaluated for its application in cancer neutron-capture therapy. Gd-nanoLEs whose particles had an oily core (soybean oil, ethyl oleate, lipiodol, or triolein) and a surface layer of hydrogenated phosphatidylcholine, gadolinium-diethyl-enetriaminepentaacetic acid-distearylamide, and a cosurfactant (Myrj 53, Brij 700, or HCO-60) were prepared by a thin-layer hydration-sonication method. Biodistribution data revealed that Brij 700 and HCO-60 prolonged the retention of Gd in the blood and enhanced its accumulation in tumors. Among the core components employed, soybean oil yielded the highest Gd concentration in the blood and tumor and the lowest in the liver and spleen. Gd-nanoLEs with a Gd content of 1.5-4.5 mg/ml could be formulated by using HCO-60 and soybean oil at a constant oil-to-water ratio, and by enriching Gd in the surface layer with the particle size maintained below 100 nm. When each Gd-nanoLE was IV injected once or twice at a 24-h interval, the Gd concentration in the tumor correlated well with the total dose of Gd, and it reached a maximum of 189 microg/g wet tumor. This maximum Gd level was greater than the limit required for significantly suppressing tumor growth in neutron-capture therapy.
Application of SH surface acoustic waves for measuring the viscosity of liquids in function of pressure and temperature.	Viscosity measurements were carried out on triolein at pressures from atmospheric up to 650 MPa and in the temperature range from 10°C to 40°C using ultrasonic measuring setup. Bleustein-Gulyaev SH surface acoustic waves waveguides were used as viscosity sensors. Additionally, pressure changes occurring during phase transition have been measured over the same temperature range. Application of ultrasonic SH surface acoustic waves in the liquid viscosity measurements at high pressure has many advantages. It enables viscosity measurement during phase transitions and in the high-pressure range where the classical viscosity measurement methods cannot operate. Measurements of phase transition kinetics and viscosity of liquids at high pressures and various temperatures (isotherms) is a novelty. The knowledge of changes in viscosity in function of pressure and temperature can help to obtain a deeper insight into thermodynamic properties of liquids.
Crystallization and transformation of polymorphic forms of trioleoyl glycerol and 1,2-dioleoyl-3-rac-linoleoyl glycerol.	This study examined the influence of different thermal treatments on the crystallization and transformation of trioleoyl glycerol (OOO) and 1,2-dioleoyl-3-rac-linoleoyl glycerol (OOL). Two triacylglycerol (TAG) samples were cooled at 0.5-15 °C·min(-1) and heated at 2 and 15 °C·min(-1). The polymorphic characteristics of the two TAGs were analyzed in situ using differential scanning calorimetry, Raman spectroscopy, and synchrotron radiation X-ray diffraction. Multiple polymorphic forms were identified in OOO (α, β'2, β'1, β2, and β1) and OOL (α, β'2, and β'1). Larger quantities of more stable forms (e.g., β2 and β1 of OOO and β'1 of OOL) were obtained when the samples were slowly cooled and heated. In contrast, less stable polymorphs were obtained with increased cooling and heating rates. Polymorphic transformations occurred in either solid-state or melt-mediation and were influenced by heating rates. The results were analyzed by considering the activation energies for crystallization and transformation of stable and less stable polymorphic forms in comparison with previous studies on 1,3-dipalmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycerol and 1, 3-dioleoyl-2-palmitoyl-glycerol. 
Mechanism of formation of trans fatty acids under heating conditions in triolein.	To elucidate the relationship between heat-induced cis/trans isomerization and reaction temperature and energy in unsaturated lipids, we investigated the molecular mechanism of the heat-induced cis/trans isomerization of 18:1 isomers. Triolein (18:1,9c) was heated at two range temperatures (130, 160, 190, 220 °C and 135, 140, 145, 150, 155 °C) and analyzed by the gas chromatography (GC) method. When the heating temperature increased to 150 °C, the amount of trans 18:1n-9 changed from 0.0897 mg/g oil (1 h) to 0.1700 mg/g oil (3 h). This study shows that the cis to trans isomerization may occur at 150 °C. The formation of fatty acid isomers followed a proton transfer route. All key geometries, transition states, intermediates, and bond dissociation energies (BDE) were optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G* level for the density functional theory (DFT). The zero-point energy corrections of the isomers were carried out using calculations at the B3LYP/6-311++G** level. The calculated energy difference between the cis and trans oleic acid was equal to 7.6 kJ/mol, and the energy barriers of the transition from cis 18:1n-9 to trans 18:1n-9 were 294.5 kJ/mol. The intrinsic reaction coordinates (IRCs) were obtained to be used as an expression of the reaction route and to analyze the transition states and intermediates. The study results suggest that the heating temperature should be kept under 150 °C, to avoid the risk of trans fatty acid (TFA) intake in daily food. 
Triolein and trilinolein ameliorate oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced oxidative stress in endothelial cells.	Uptake of oxidized low-density lipoprotein by endothelial cells is a critical step for the initiation of atherosclerosis. Triacylglycerol uptake in these cells is understood to be a part of the process. The present investigation, comparison among the effects of simple acylglycerol, including tristearin, triolein, and trilinolein, upon oxidized low-density lipoprotein -induced oxidative stress was undertaken. Results indicated that trilinolein (78 % ± 0.02) and triolein (90 % ± 0.01) increased cell viability of endothelial cells exposed to oxidized low-density lipoprotein, whereas tristearin decreased the cell viability (55 % ± 0.03) (P < 0.05). Oxidized low-density lipoprotein treatment significantly increased apoptosis (23 %), compared to cells simultaneously exposed to trilinolein (19 %) or triolein (16 %), where apoptosis was reduced (P < 0.05). On the other hand, exposure to tristearin further increased oxidized low-density lipoprotein -induced cell apoptosis (34 %). Treatment with trilinolein or triolein on oxidized low-density lipoprotein -stimulated endothelial cells inhibited the expression of ICAM-1 and E-selectin mRNA. Moreover, both trilinolein and triolein demonstrated a strong antioxidant response to oxidative stress caused by oxidized low-density lipoprotein. Taken together, the results indicate trilinolein and triolein possess anti-inflammatory properties, which are mediated via the antioxidant defense system. 
The role of lipolysis in human orosensory fat perception.	Taste perception elicited by food constituents and facilitated by sensory cells in the oral cavity is important for the survival of organisms. In addition to the five basic taste modalities, sweet, umami, bitter, sour, and salty, orosensory perception of stimuli such as fat constituents is intensely investigated. Experiments in rodents and humans suggest that free fatty acids represent a major stimulus for the perception of fat-containing food. However, the lipid fraction of foods mainly consists of triglycerides in which fatty acids are esterified with glycerol. Whereas effective lipolysis by secreted lipases (LIPs) liberating fatty acids from triglycerides in the rodent oral cavity is well established, a similar mechanism in humans is disputed. By psychophysical analyses of humans, we demonstrate responses upon stimulation with triglycerides which are attenuated by concomitant LIP inhibitor administration. Moreover, lipolytic activities detected in minor salivary gland secretions directly supplying gustatory papillae were correlated to individual sensitivities for triglycerides, suggesting that differential LIP levels may contribute to variant fat perception. Intriguingly, we found that the LIPF gene coding for lingual/gastric LIP is not expressed in human lingual tissue. Instead, we identified the expression of other LIPs, which may compensate for the absence of LIPF.
Effects of the neutral lipid content of high density lipoprotein on apolipoprotein A-I structure and particle stability.	Alterations in high density lipoprotein (HDL) composition that occur in dyslipidemic states may modulate a number of events involved in cholesterol homeostasis. To elucidate the details of how HDL-core composition can affect the molecular structure of different kinds of HDL particles, the conformation and stability of apoA-I have been investigated in homogeneous recombinant HDL particles (LpA-I) containing palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidylcholine (POPC), triolein (TG), and/or cholesteryl linoleate (CE). In a discoidal particle containing two molecules of apoA-I and 85 molecules of POPC, apoA-I exhibits an alpha-helix content of 70% and a free energy of stability of its alpha-helical segments (delta G0D) of 2.2 kcal/mol. Inclusion of eight molecules of TG into the complex significantly reduces the alpha-helix content and stability of apoA-I, whereas inclusion of four molecules of CE into the complex has an opposite effect in that the alpha-helix content is significantly reduced and the stability of the remaining alpha-helical structure of apoA-I is increased. Neutral lipids have a different effect on apoA-I conformation in spherical LpA-I particles. In a sonicated-spherical LpA-I particle containing two molecules of apoA-I and 70 molecules of POPC, apoA-I exhibits an alpha-helix content of about 60% and a delta G0D of 1.2 kcal/mol apoA-I. Inclusion of either 10 molecules of TG or six molecules of CE into such a particle increases both the alpha-helix content and stability of apoA-I. Increasing the CE/TG ratio in LpA-I particles that contain both neutral lipids enhances the stability of the alpha-helical segments. ApoA-I molecules tend to dissociate and cause particle instability when delta G0D for the lipid-bound alpha-helices is less than that for helices in the lipid-free state. The stabilities of both discoidal and spherical LpA-I particles are relatively low when the only neutral lipid present is TG but the particle stability is enhanced by the presence of CE molecules. Such dissociation of apoA-I molecules from LpA-I particles that have a low CE/TG ratio would be promoted in the hypertriglyceridemic state in vivo.
Fluorescence study of the motional states of core and surface lipids in native and reconstituted low density lipoproteins.	Low density lipoproteins (LDL) consist of an apolar core of cholesterol esters and triglycerides surrounded by a monolayer of phospholipid, cholesterol, and a single molecule of apolipoprotein B (apoB-100). To determine the influence of core and surface constituents on the surface of LDL, we have measured core and surface order parameters for native LDL, and reconstituted LDLs (rLDL) whose apolar core lipids were extracted and replaced with either cholesterol oleate (CO) or triolein (TO). Order parameters were measured by fluorescence depolarization of diphenylhexatriene (DPH), which is located primarily in the core, and of trimethylammoniumdiphenylhexatriene (TMA-DPH), which is anchored at the water-phospholipid interface. DPH order parameters for LDL reconstituted with TO (r-[TO]LDL) were much lower than those for LDL reconstituted with CO (r-[CO]LDL), consistent with the physical properties of TO, a nonviscous liquid at all temperatures studied, and CO, which exists in a liquid crystalline or viscous liquid state at the temperatures studied. Although core cholesterol esters in r[CO]LDL and native LDL undergo distinct order-disorder transitions, these transitions were not detected by DPH. This is most likely due to the difference between the time scale for end-over-end tumbling of cholesterol esters and the fluorescence lifetime of DPH. Despite the fact that the core lipids of r-[CO]LDL were much more ordered than those of r-[TO]LDL, surface order parameters for both lipoproteins were similar. We conclude that the motional states of the core and surface lipids are relatively independent. Surface order parameters for native LDL were higher than those for reconstituted LDLs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Carotenoids in biological emulsions: solubility, surface-to-core distribution, and release from lipid droplets.	Data on the physico-chemical properties of carotenoids in biological emulsions are essential to our knowledge of carotenoid metabolism. Therefore, we determined the behavior of carotenoids in phospholipid-stabilized triglyceride emulsions, a model for biological emulsions such as dietary emulsions, triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, and intracellular storage droplets. The solubility of beta-carotene (a model for apolar carotenoids, carotenes) in pure bulk triglycerides (0.112 to 0.141 wt % according to triglycerides) was significantly higher than zeaxanthin (a model for polar carotenoids, xanthophylls) (0.022 to 0.088 wt %). The solubility of both carotenoids increased when the chain-length of the triglycerides' fatty acids decreased. The amount of zeaxanthin associated with lipid droplet dramatically increased in phospholipid-triglyceride droplets as compared to the pure corresponding triglyceride droplets, whereas the amount of beta-carotene associated with lipid droplets increased only slightly beta-Carotene distributed almost exclusively in the core of triolein-lecithin-carotenoid droplets, while zeaxanthin distributed preferentially at the droplet's surface. A significant percentage (8.3%) of zeaxanthin was spontaneously transferred from lipid droplets to aqueous phase and the remaining part was transferred during triglyceride hydrolysis catalysed by pancreatic lipase, while beta-carotene absolutely required triglyceride lipolysis to be transferred to the aqueous phase. Our results show that polar and apolar carotenoids behave differently in biological emulsions. They further our understanding of the bioavailability of polar and apolar carotenoids and of their distribution between lipoprotein particles.
