Neonatal intestinal opacification secondary to transplacental passage of urographic contrast medium.	Neonatal intestinal opacification in five infants (one set each of triplets and twins) after maternal excretory urography is described, and mechanisms leading to this phenomenon are discussed. Transplacental passage of urographic contrast medium with subsequent excretion by the fetal kidneys and possibly liver and small bowel seems to explain the radiographic appearance. Although the contrast medium probably does not harm the fetus, it should be distinguished from other more sinister causes of colonic opacification in the neonate.
Controversies in the intrapartum management of twin gestations.	Advances in reproductive endocrine technology have helped to make twin gestations commonplace; however, as this article suggests, many unanswered questions and areas of controversy about the intrapartum management of twin gestations remain. Continued research in this area and the performance of prospective studies will shed further light on many of these topics.
Early parental interactions with and perceptions of multiple birth infants.	The perceptions and interactions of mothers and fathers of seven sets of twins and one set of triplets were compared to those of parents of 49 singleton infants. Couples were typically interviewed together three times during the pregnancy and at 1 week and 3 months post-partum. Two-weekly observations of mother-father-infant interactions were conducted after the first postnatal interview. Three major themes were apparent in the interviews--the positive and negative specialness for multiple births, difficulties involved in managing more than one infant, and attachment issues--that were also evident during the observations. Although there were few differences in care-giving and interactive behaviours between the multiple birth and singleton parents, the logistics of caring for more than one infant dictated that multiple birth infants were left alone more and looked at, talked to and held less often. Couples used different strategies to care for their infants, varying in both the extent to which they interacted preferentially with the infants and in the relative involvement of the mother, father and others.
Multiple pregnancies in women after renal transplantation. Case report that rises a management dilemma.	To report the pregnancy outcome in women with multiple pregnancies after renal transplantation.
Assisted reproductive technology in Europe, 1998. Results generated from European registers by ESHRE. European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.	European results of assisted reproductive techniques from treatments initiated during 1998 are presented in this second ESHRE report. Data was collected from 18 European countries usually from pre-existing national registers. A total of 521 clinics from these 18 countries reported 232 443 cycles: IVF 103 919 intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) 89 192 unclassified fertilization method 667 frozen embryo replacement (FER) 34 03 oocyte donations (OD) 4629. In nine countries where all clinics reported to the register a total of 128 801 cycles were performed in a population of 165 million corresponding to 781 cycles per million inhabitants 3.2 cycles per 1000 women aged 15-49 years. After IVF ICSI the distribution of transfer of 1, 2, 3 > or =4 embryos was 11.5, 37.2, 42.0 and 9.4% respectively. Huge differences existed between countries. For IVF the clinical pregnancy rate per aspiration per transfer was 23.2% 27.0% respectively. For ICSI the corresponding rates were 24.8% 26.8%. The distribution of singleton, twin, triplet, quadruplet deliveries for IVF and ICSI combined was 73.7, 23.9, 2.3 and 0.1%. This gives a total multiple delivery rate of 26.3%. The range of triplet deliveries after IVF and ICSI differed from 0.2-5.3% between countries. Compared with 1997, the number of reported cycles has increased by 14% and the number of reporting clinics by 8%. The clinical pregnancy rate per transfer increased from 26.1 to 27.0% after IVF and from 26.4 to 26.8% after ICSI. Multiple deliveries after IVF and ICSI decreased from 29.6 to 26.3%.
Sonographic cervical volumetry in higher order multiple gestation.	The aim of this study of multifetal pregnancies was the comparison of three-dimensional (3D) volumetry of the cervix, conventional sonographic cervical length measurement and clinical assessment.
Successful digoxin therapy of fetal supraventricular tachycardia in a triplet pregnancy.	Fetal supraventricular tachycardia is a rare complication of pregnancy associated with cardiac failure, hydrops, and fetal death. If no underlying cardiac defects are present, medical management with digoxin has been successful.
A case of body stalk anomaly arising in the second baby of a triplet pregnancy after in-vitro fertilization and embryo transfer.	We report a case of body stalk anomaly arising in the second baby of a triplet pregnancy after in-vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET). Body stalk anomaly or limb-body wall complex is a rare congenital anomaly with a series of similar clinical manifestations and poor prognosis. IVF-ET is an effective treatment for various types of infertility. We summarize and discuss herein the relation with the sequence of genesis for such malformations and multiple pregnancies after IVF-ET.
Effect of maternal height on gestational age and birth weight in nulliparous mothers of triplets with a normal pregravid body mass index.	To study the effect of maternal height on gestational age and birth weight of triplets born to nulliparous women with a normal pregravid body mass index (BMI).
Delayed delivery of second twin: a multicentre study of 35 cases.	The aim of this study was to conduct a statistical analysis to determine the outcome of conservative treatment after delivery of a first fetus in multiple pregnancy and thus define new prognostic factors.
Triplets and quadruplets in Switzerland: comparison with singletons, and evolution over the last decade.	Main objectives were 1) to determine the incidence of higher multiple births from 1995 to 1998 in Switzerland, and 2) to evaluate neonatal mortality and morbidity. Secondary objectives were 3) to compare the results with those of matched singletons, and 4) to compare the present data to the first Swiss study (1985-1988).
Preimplantation genetic diagnosis for familial dysautonomia.	Familial dysautonomia (FD) is the most common congenital sensory neuropathy in Ashkenazi Jews, caused by a single major mutation in the IKBKAP gene. Effective management for this severe debilitating disease is still not available, making preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) a useful option for at-risk couples to establish an FD free pregnancy from the outset. PGD was performed for a couple with a previous affected child with FD, using first and second polar body testing to preselect mutation-free oocytes, based on mutation analysis with simultaneous testing of two closely linked markers, D9S58 and D9S1677. Of 15 tested oocytes, 11 carried information about both polar bodies' genotype, of which seven were predicted to be free of the FD gene. Three embryos resulting from these oocytes were transferred back to the patient, resulting in a triplet pregnancy and the birth of three unaffected children confirmed to be free of FD. This is the first PGD for FD, providing an alternative for those at-risk couples who cannot accept prenatal diagnosis and termination of pregnancy as an option for avoiding FD.
Ophthalmologic follow-up of premature twins and triplets.	To assess the influence of multiple gestation on the visual apparatus and on the general state of health of premature infants and to investigate the condition of the twin or triplet with the lowest birth weight compared to multiple gestation siblings.
Non-invasive fetal electrocardiography in singleton and multiple pregnancies.	To document the duration of fetal cardiac time intervals in uncomplicated singleton pregnancies using a novel non-invasive fetal electrocardiography (fECG) system and to demonstrate this technique's ability to acquire recordings in twin and triplet pregnancies.
Triplet morbidity and mortality in a large case series.	A significant increase in the triplet birth rate has occurred recently. This rise is of concern, as these infants are historically reported to be at risk of adverse outcome. Thus, we examined the outcome of triplet births in a large contemporary case series.
Multiple birth rates according to different socioeconomic levels: an analysis of four hospitals from the city of Sao Paulo, Brazil.	This population based study compares the rates of multiple births in the 1990s in four hospitals of different socioeconomic levels. It is well known that women from higher socioeconomic groups have easiest access to infertility therapies because of greater financial resources. The hospital of lower socioeconomic level presented multiple birth rates of approximately 8 per thousand during the decade, which may be considered as the natural one. The other three hospitals presented increased rates that were positively correlated to socioeconomic level. This increase occurred mainly due to dizygotic twins and to triplets and was as high as 4.8 per thousand in 1999. Maternal age was also positively correlated to socioeconomic level for singletons as well as for twins. However, during the decade the mean maternal age increased only in the two hospitals with better socioeconomic levels. Gestational order decreased as socioeconomic levels increased, mainly for twins and triplets. The percentage of singletons with low birthweight and very low birthweight decreased as socioeconomic level increased. However, twins presented with an equal distribution in the four hospitals, indicating that better socioeconomic level did not affect the incidence of low birthweight and very low birthweight among twins. Fetal death rate decreased as socioeconomic level increased but twin/singleton fetal death ratio is three times greater in the hospital of higher socioeconomic level suggesting that even in ideal conditions of medical and hospital facilities, the mortality of twins continues to be much higher than that of singletons.
Causes of thrombocytopenia in triplet gestations.	The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence and cause of thrombocytopenia in triplet gestations.
Down syndrome with trisomy in one triplet.	The case presented here may be the first identified report of Down syndrome with 21 trisomy in one child of triplets. One triplet died at 1 month of age; his facial appearance was not typical of Down syndrome. Detailed testing of blood groups suggested identical origin in the remaining two children. However, the fluorescent banding technique of chromosome, one-way mixed lymphocyte culture test, and HLA typing were suggestive of dizygotic orgin. Skin transplant studies supported this contention.
The impact of advanced maternal age (> or = 40 years) on birth outcomes among triplets: a population study.	The objective was to determine the impact of advanced maternal age on the birth outcomes of triplet gestations.
Monochorionic triplets following intracytoplasmic sperm injection: a report of two consecutive cases.	Monochorionic triplet pregnancies are very rare. Here we report 2 cases of multiple pregnancies with monochorionic triplets following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and day 3 embryo transfer. The 2 women concomitantly underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation due to male factor infertility. Following oocyte retrieval, ICSI and assisted hatching (AH) were performed, and the 2 women conceived consecutively. One patient had a quadruplet pregnancy, which included monochorionic triplets, while the other had monochorionic triplets. Selective embryo reduction by intracardiac KCl injection targeted at 2 of the triplets was performed on the patient with the quadruplet pregnancy, but the third triplet also died. The gestation continued as a singleton pregnancy, and the patient gave birth to a healthy female baby at 38 weeks. The other patient gave birth to 3 healthy female babies at 34 weeks. Possible etiologic factors for the formation of monozygotic splitting among women undergoing assisted reproduction treatment are discussed.
Comparison of child-rearing problems and necessary community welfare and health services between mothers with twins or triplets of mothers with singleton children]	The purpose of this survey was to study child-rearing problems and necessary community welfare and health services in the families with twins or triplets as compared with families with singleton children.
The likelihood of adverse outcomes in triplet pregnancies estimated by pregravid maternal characteristics.	To estimate the likelihood of adverse outcomes in triplet pregnancies by a score comprising pregravid maternal characteristics.
Neuromuscular modeling of spasticity in cerebral palsy.	Data from the pendulum knee test has been used to develop two active models that use external torques to closely match the experimental knee trajectories of subjects with spasticity due to cerebral palsy. These data were collected from three subjects who are identical triplets; two of whom have clinically measurable spasticity. A passive model that accurately describes the knee trajectory of the nonspastic subject serves as the passive plant for two active models. One of these models allows direct application of external torques, and the second provides additional torque as the result of velocity feedback. Both active models and the passive model use separate parameters of stiffness and damping for the agonist and antagonist muscles.
Successful infertility treatment in a cancer patient with a significant personal and family history of cancer.	Infertility can be a devastating problem for a couple desperate to conceive. Unfortunately, these same women with infertility also bear the burden of an increased risk of ovarian and breast cancer. We present a case of a woman with infertility who persevered despite a personal and family history of cancer to achieve her goal of having a family.
Cerebral palsy in triplet pregnancies with and without iatrogenic reduction.	Iatrogenic fetal reduction is undertaken to try and improve the outcome of multiple pregnancies by reducing the rate of severe preterm delivery. In twin pregnancies, however, spontaneous death of one of the fetuses is associated with increased risk of cerebral palsy (CP) in the survivor. The aim of this study was to determine whether iatrogenic fetal reduction might also increase the prevalence of CP. The database of a tertiary fetal medicine unit was interrogated to identify women with trichorionic triplet pregnancies who had either given birth to three live infants or two live infants following selective fetal reduction. A questionnaire was sent to the women's general practitioners asking them to report whether any of the children had CP. The results of the questionnaire revealed that the CP prevalence (13.8 per 1000) of 72 children from trichorionic triplet pregnancies reduced to twins by selective termination was similar to that of 111 children from trichorionic triplet pregnancies with no loss (18 per 1000), but the pregnancies with selective termination delivered at a later gestation (P = 0.004).
Hydrops fetalis associated with homozygosity for hemoglobin Taybe (alpha 38/39 THR deletion) in newborn triplets.	Hemoglobin Taybe is an unstable alpha-chain hemoglobin variant caused by a deletion of a threonine residue at codon 38 or 39 of the alpha-1 globin chain. We describe preterm infant triplets born with hydrops fetalis and anemia who were found by DNA analysis to be homozygous for hemoglobin Taybe. All three infants developed intrauterine hemolytic anemia, which subsequently led to hydrops fetalis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of hydrops fetalis associated with this hemoglobinopathy. We suggest that hemoglobin Taybe be considered in the differential diagnosis of hydrops fetalis and that known affected fetuses be carefully followed both antenatally and postnatally.
Twin intrauterine and cornual gestation in a case of triplet pregnancy.	Ectopic implantation with in-vitro fertilization-embryo transfer may occur in the cornu or tubal stump, which is otherwise rare. Our patient with previous left salpingostomy and right salpingo-oophorectomy had 4 embryos transferred through in vitro fertilization out of which 3 were successfully implanted with twin intrauterine gestation and cornual pregnancy. The cornual pregnancy ruptured at 12 weeks of gestation and the twin intrauterine pregnancy had a successful outcome.
The origins and outcomes of triplet and quadruplet pregnancies in Nova Scotia: 1980 to 2001.	The objective of this study was to determine the rate, origin, maternal and perinatal outcomes, and the associated hospital costs of higher order multiple births in one Canadian province. All higher order multiple pregnancies (triplets and above) in Nova Scotia over a 22-year period (1980 to 2001) were reviewed, and the maternal and perinatal outcomes and hospital costs were compared with singletons and twins in the same hospital population. During the 22-year period, 116,785 infants were delivered, including 3448 twins, 99 triplets, and 16 quadruplets. Of the higher order multiple gestations, 51.4% were conceived through infertility therapy. When compared with mothers of either singletons or twins, mothers of higher order gestations were significantly older, had longer antepartum and postpartum hospital stays, were more likely to have cesarean delivery, preterm labor, preeclampsia, and require intensive care unit admission. Triplets and quadruplets had significantly higher rates of preterm delivery, major anomalies, neonatal intensive care, respiratory distress syndrome, intrauterine growth restriction, serious morbidity, 5-minute Apgar scores < or = 3, and neonatal death than twins or singletons. The estimated hospital costs for this population ranged from 6,750 US dollars for a singleton pregnancy to 278,400 US dollars for a quadruplet pregnancy. Maternal morbidity, perinatal morbidity and mortality, and hospital costs are significantly increased in higher order births compared with both twins and singletons.
Targeted first-trimester prenatal diagnosis before fetal reduction in triplet gestations and subsequent outcome.	To assess the feasibility of targeted first-trimester ultrasound evaluation in triplet gestations and to report the outcome in reduced and expectantly managed triplets.
Embryo reduction versus expectant management in triplet pregnancies.	In triplet pregnancies, to compare pregnancy outcome of expectant management with that after embryo reduction to twins.
Survival of triplets who are born to teen mothers in the United States.	The purposes of this study were to assess survival among triplets who are born to teen mothers and to determine whether fetal number influences the mortality rates of the offspring of teen mothers when compared with the offspring of older women.
Growth aberration in multiple pregnancy.	Growth of twins and higher-order multiples is an exceptional metabolic challenge for the expecting mother. She is doing much more than a mother of a singleton in terms of nurturing, however. Metabolic requirements need adequate dietary intervention in the form of increased weight gain during early pregnancy. It is normal for multiples to be smaller than singletons. Being smaller than singletons does not necessarily mean that multiples are pathologically growth restricted. It is important to remember that twins and triplets have different growth patterns, and their growth should not be considered by using singleton standards. When a small-for-gestational-age fetus is suspected in a multiple pregnancy, it is advisable to follow or to treat the pregnancy as if it was an SGA singleton.
The paradox of old maternal age in multiple pregnancies.	The study of multiple gestations in older mothers has been furthered by the analyses of large data sets published in recent years. These initial analyses are counterintuitive in that the obstetric and neonatal outcomes of the older mothers (>40 years) are better than those of their younger counterparts (aged 25-29). Currently, it is not clear if older mothers of multiples are advantaged or younger mothers of multiples are disadvantaged. It seems reasonable, however, to conclude that pregnancy after age 40 represents a new obstetric entity, one in which many women will have twins or triplets as a result of assisted reproductive technologies. Further study in this area is clearly warranted, preferably using databases that combine maternal and neonatal data.
Actocardiotocographic monitoring of triplets during vaginal delivery.	A case is reported in which fetal monitoring during vaginal delivery of triplets was performed with the MT 430 actocardiotocograph. This method provides optimal monitoring of multiple pregnancies because the fetal heart rate tracings of three fetuses, together with recordings of fetal movements and uterine contractions, can be visualized on one display.
Monochorionic triplet gestation after in vitro fertilization using donor oocytes: case report and review.	To report on a patient with a monochorionic triamnionic triplet pregnancy after IVF with donor oocytes.
Spontaneous fetal reduction in multiple gestations assessed by transvaginal ultrasound.	To assess the occurrence of disappearance of one or more of the fetuses in pregnancies which start as multiple gestation.
Hypoparathyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism (HRD) syndrome in triplets.	We report female triplets with the clinical and biochemical manifestations of hypoparatyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism (HRD) syndrome also known as Sanjad-Sakati syndrome. They were born at 35 weeks gestation after assisted pregnancy (in vitro fertilization). The parents are first degree cousins from Saudi Arabia.
Chorionic villus sampling and selective termination of a chromosomally abnormal fetus in a triplet pregnancy.	Transabdominal chorionic villus sampling (CVS) was performed on a patient with a triplet pregnancy. The karyotypes were as follows: 46,XX; 46,XY; and 46,XY/47,XXY. Selective termination was done on the affected fetus successfully by intrathoracic potassium chloride (KCl) injection. Amniocentesis which was performed at the same time confirmed the CVS results, showing the same mosaic findings. Following the procedure, the pregnancy proceeded uneventfully and two normal newborns were delivered at term.
Is peripartum hysterectomy more common in multiple gestations?	To compare the occurrence of peripartum hysterectomy between singleton and multiple gestations.
Perinatal mortality in the normal siblings of anomalous triplets.	To estimate the risk of survival of unaffected cofetuses of anomalous triplets.
Adolescent triplet pregnancy.	The occurrence of spontaneous triplet pregnancy among teenagers is a rare event. The present communication describes two cases encountered at the Mt. Hope Maternity Hospital since its inception in 1981.
Conservative approach to multiple pregnancy with intrauterine fetal death of one or more fetuses.	One of the less common complications of multiple gestation is intrauterine demise of one or more fetuses. Despite the many case reports in the literature, there are no firm guidelines regarding the management of this problem. We herein report the favorable outcome of the conservative approach we chose for managing four patients; two with twins, one with triplets and one with quadruplets (first report in the literature). Strict follow-up based on frequent physical examinations, ultrasonographic assessment of fetal growth and well being, and coagulation profiles is mandatory. Individualization of delivery dates and mode is recommended.
Early prediction of preterm birth for singleton, twin, and triplet pregnancies.	To create prediction models of early preterm birth for singletons, twin, and triplet pregnancies.
Selective reduction after gamete intrafallopian transfer.	Selective reduction was performed in a patient with triplet pregnancy in the 9th week of gestation. Selective reduction of the fetuses to two was performed by puncture using vaginal ultrasound probe. No complications occurred and the patient was delivered of healthy twins.
High risk of HIV-1 infection for first-born twins. The International Registry of HIV-exposed Twins.	To examine the epidemiology and natural history of mother-to-infant transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), especially genetic and intrapartum exposure factors, we obtained data on twins and triplets born to women infected with the virus. 40 investigators in nine countries contributed demographic, clinical, and epidemiological data on 100 sets of twins and 1 set of triplets. Among the 66 evaluable sets, HIV-1 infection was more common in first-born than in second-born twins (p = 0.004). In 22 sets, only one twin was infected (18 first-born, 4 second-born). 50% of first-born twins delivered vaginally and 38% of first-born twins delivered by caesarean were infected, compared with 19% of second-born twins delivered by either route. HIV-1 infection status tended to be concordant in more monozygotic (14 of 17 sets) than dizygotic (26 of 43) sets, but the frequency and clinical signs of HIV-1-related disease were similar in only 3 of the 10 sets with both children infected. These findings suggest that some infants may be infected in utero before labour but that a substantial proportion of HIV-1 transmission occurs as the first twin encounters the cervix and birth canal. Such measures as cleansing of the birth canal and caesarean delivery before membrane rupture might reduce the risk of transmission for infants born to HIV-1-infected women and should be the subjects of controlled clinical trials. Caesarean section should not be regarded as a wholly preventive measure, however, since substantial proportions of both first-born and second-born twins delivered in this way were infected.
Severe hypodontia in a set of triplets.	Hypodontia is the developmental absence of one or more teeth from the dentition and constitutes one of the most common developmental anomalies in humans with a reported prevalence of 1.6 to 9.6% in the permanent dentition. Hypodontia may occur in association with other genetic diseases, or as an isolated familial or sporadic form. This article describes the rare phenomenon of severe hypodontia in a set of triplets. The triplets presented with congenital absence of the second molars, second premolars in all quadrants and lower central incisors. An additional five teeth (upper canines, upper lateral incisors and upper left first premolar) were missing in one of the triplets. The treatment plan and the possible genetic mode of inheritance are discussed.
Iatrogenic multiple births: a 2003 checkup.	If further progress is to be made in reducing the problem of multiple pregnancies, guidelines and their enforcement for the use of induction of ovulation and enhancement of ovulation are required. Collecting information on fetal reduction will also be necessary.
The outcome of triplet pregnancies at the First Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Semmelweis University, in the last 15 years]	The authors analysed the data of 307 live-birth newborns and premature infants who were born from 104 triplet pregnancies between 1 January 1990 and 31 December 2005 at the Semmelweis University First Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Fetal growth in multiple pregnancy]	A close surveillance of fetal growth in multiple pregnancies is mandatory for the prevention and/or reduction of neonatal morbidity and mortality. Multiples have the same genetically determined growth potential as singletons. However, this growth potential is restricted by the functional capacity of the placenta and uterus. Multiples show a specific growth pattern compared to singletons. Nevertheless, for clinical surveillance, the 10th percentile of singleton growth charts may be used, because significant differences, which may define normally grown multiples as small for gestational age or growth restricted, can only be detected at higher gestational ages, when most of the multiples may have already been delivered. At higher gestational ages, obstetricians should take into account the specific growth pattern for multiples. In multiples with growth discordance, it is necessary to consider or exclude the various causes, and if necessary the clinical follow-up has to be intensified.
Delivery of multiples, particularly of twins]	Multiples run various risks. While for triplets and higher-grade multiples caesarean section is the first-line mode of delivery, the method is still under discussion in the case of twins. Evidence-based data in favour of a general elective caesarean section are lacking but prospective randomized study results on this subject are expected. The organization of the clinic is essential for the safety of twins during vaginal delivery. The prerequisites for the vaginal delivery of twins and its management under various conditions are discussed in light of the literature.
Neuropsychological outcomes of preterm triplets discordant for birthweight: a case report.	Multiple gestation is associated with a higher incidence of preterm birth and preterm birth often results in later neurocognitive and behavioral problems that persist into adulthood. The medical, neurobiological, familial, and socio-environmental factors determinant for an individual are unpredictable. We present neuropsychological data for fraternal triplets discordant for birthweight whose school-age outcome was inconsistent with the low birthweight literature and for whom neurobiological variables appeared especially pertinent. Preterm infants may achieve optimal outcomes, although etiological factors leading to such outcomes may depend heavily on care center variables that limit or avoid intracerebral and other medical complications of prematurity.
Efficacy of radiofrequency ablation for twin-reversed arterial perfusion sequence.	We report our experience in the treatment of patients with twin-reversed arterial perfusion (TRAP) sequence using radiofrequency ablation to stop perfusion to the acardiac twin and protect the pump twin.
Ear acupuncture points in newborn triplets]	The current study demonstrates for the first time the presence of ear acupuncture points in prematurely delivered triplets of 31 weeks and two days gestational age. Pregnancy was an IVF pregnancy and caesarean section was performed because of preeclampsia. Ear acupuncture points were determined with the Svesa point selector 1070 and correlated well with the clinical state of the neonates meaning that the sickest child demonstrated the most active ear points. Psychotropic points were not found. For the future ear acupuncture points may be further used for diagnostics and therapy in neonates.
Massive acute haemolysis and severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase-deficient preterm triplets.	Premature triplets (2 boys and 1 girl) were delivered at 34 weeks, with both boys identified as Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Despite having similar quantitative levels of G6PD in their cord blood, only one boy had severe hyperbilirubinemia and anaemia caused by acute haemolysis requiring exchange transfusion. G6PD-deficient infants with the similar genetic, demographic, maternal, clinical factors and G6PD quantification levels can have different severity of presentation of neonatal jaundice in similar environmental set up. This supports the massive acute haemolysis can occur in infant with G6PD deficiency in the absence of any obvious blood group incompatibilities, infection, or ingestion of oxidising agents known to trigger haemolysis.
Perinatal results in pregnancies obtained with embryo transfer in vitro fertilization: a case-control study]	In 1978 the first successfull birth by in vitro fertilization took place and this assisted reproduction technique became alternative of treatment in the couples with infertility that had not obtained pregnancy with conventional treatments. The conditions of clinical treatment and laboratory improved, which were in greater number of pregnancies. In 1985 the first study was published that showed adverse perinatal results in pregnancies obtained with fertilization in vitro. Some researchers attributed these results to the increase in the number of multiple pregnancies, pregnant patients older than 35 years, and to the antecedents of infertility.
Redefining in vitro fertilization success: should triplets be considered failures?	To evaluate how the ranking of IVF programs changes if high-order multiple pregnancies (HOMPs) are considered negative outcomes.
Triplet pregnancy after ovulation induction with an aromatase inhibitor.	To describe the first reported case of a triplet pregnancy subsequent to the use of an aromatase inhibitor for ovulation induction.
Results of in vitro fertilization in Italy after the introduction of a new law.	To investigate the consequences of a law introduced in Italy in 2004 that forbids the fertilization or injection of more than three oocytes for assisted reproduction and does not allow any embryo selection or cryopreservation.
Monozygotic transplantation: concerns and opportunities.	We describe the case of a 24-year-old female with end-stage renal disease from focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) diagnosed at age 16, who underwent monozygotic triplet transplantation at age 21 from her sister. Monozygosity was established by buccal smear DNA PCR amplification using short tandem repeat (1) profiling for 16 genetic alleles. All immunosuppression was discontinued by 1 month posttransplant. To evaluate the use of immunosuppression in HLA identical monozygotic transplantation, we interrogated the OPTN (Organ Procurement Transplant Network) database for all transplants conducted from 1987 to 2006. We identified 194 probable identical twin transplantations based on age, gender, race, ethnic category, blood type and HLA match. We evaluated the use of various immunosuppressive agents at discharge, 6 months and 1, 2 and 3 years after transplantation. Seventy-one percent of these patients at discharge and 34% at the end of 1 year were on immunosuppression. At discharge 61% received steroids and 30% received calcineurin inhibitors and 66% of these remained on calcineurin inhibitors at 1 year. Renal function was superior among those not maintained on immunosuppression. Thus, monozygotic transplantation confers an immunologic advantage that allows immunosuppression elimination despite a risk of recurrent glomerular disease such as FSGS with appropriate evaluation and management.
Heterotopic triplet pregnancy (twin tubal) in a natural cycle with tubal rupture: case report and review of the literature.	The incidence of heterotopic/ectopic pregnancy has risen in recent years, largely due to more frequent use of ovulatory medicine and increased incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease. In a natural cycle, it is a very rare event. Most heterotopic/ectopic pregnancies are localized in the uterine tube and, usually, it is diagnosed when symptoms develop. We report the case of a 37 year-old, gravida 2, para 0, abortion 1 woman with no known risk factors for heterotopic pregnancy. The patient attended the emergency department because of acute abdominal pain. She was evaluated in our department and a heterotopic twin pregnancy in the tube was diagnosed by transvaginal sonography. Intrauterine pregnancy with positive fetal cardiac activity at 9 weeks of gestation according to crown-rump length measurement was detected. Laparotomy was carried out because of acute abdominal syndrome. Right ruptured tubal ectopic/heterotopic pregnancy and hemoperitoneum were diagnosed. Right salpingectomy was carried out. Pathology revealed monochorionic twin tubal pregnancy. In a review of the literature, this is first case of twin tubal pregnancy in one uterine tube. In conclusion, heterotopic pregnancy in twin form in the uterine tube is possible in natural cycles. Intrauterine pregnancy does not exclude extrauterine pregnancy in natural cycles.
Maternal reactions to the birth of triplets.	This study examines the reactions of 14 women to the birth of triplets. Home interviews and observations were conducted at 4 months and 1 year after the birth. The findings indicate that the triplet situation constitutes a real source of psychological stress for the women in this study. Reactions depend on two factors: individual makeup, in that some women become depressed whereas others develop defenses, and amount of support from family and friends. These variables, along with mothers' ability to overcome phantasms of abnormality generated by the exceptionality of a multiple maternity, serve to define a set of predictors of good/poor prognosis for the establishment of triplet-mother relationships.
The effects of hospitalization for bed rest on duration of gestation, fetal growth and neonatal morbidity in triplet pregnancy.	Nineteen women attending a special multiple pregnancy antenatal clinic with a triplet pregnancy were randomly allocated to either bed rest in hospital from 24 weeks gestation onwards until delivery, or to continue conventional outpatient management. Conclusions are limited by the trial size, but the study suggests that routine hospitalization for bed rest decreases the incidence of preterm delivery and light-for-gestational age infants and reduces the need for intensive neonatal care. Although still compatible with change variation, the observations, if confirmed in a larger randomized study, would have considerable implications for clinical practice. The policy needs further evaluation in a large multicentered collaborative study.
A premature with nail defects]	A premature neonate had hypoplastic thumbnails with triangular lunulae and an aplastic left patella, due tot nail-patella-syndrome.
Spontaneous twin anemia-polycythemia sequence complicated by recipient placental vascular thrombosis and hydrops fetalis.	Twin anemia-polycythemia sequence (TAPS) is an atypical form of twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) that presents as a large intertwin hemoglobin difference with one twin developing anemia and the other developing polycythemia, without oligohydramnios-polyhydramnios sequence (Lopriore et al., Placenta 2007;28:47-51). The prenatal diagnostic criteria for TAPS require that the middle cerebral artery-peak systolic velocity (MCA-PSV) measure greater than 1.5 multiples of median (MoM) in the donor twin and less than 0.8 MoM in the recipient twin (Robyr et al., Am J Obstet Gynecol 2006;194:796-803; Klaritsch et al., Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol 2009;34:149-154; Mari et al., N Engl Med 2000;342:9-14). The presumed etiology of TAPS involves the presence of small caliber arteriovenous anastomoses, which generate a slow transfusional process allowing for hemodynamic compensation (Lopriore et al., Placenta 2007;28:47-51; Lopriore et al., Placenta 2009;30:223-225; Lewi et al., Am J Obstet Gynecol 2006;194:790-795; Lopriore et al., Am J Obstet Gynecol 2008;112:753-758; Van den Wijngaard et al., Placenta 2007;28:611-615). The resulting polycythemia in the recipient twin is a risk factor for fetal and placental thrombosis (Van den Wijngaard et al., Am J Physiol 2005;288:R799-R814). We present a case of spontaneous TAPS complicated by a large placental vessel thrombosis and hydrops fetalis. Treatment via selective laser photocoagulation of communicating vessels (SLPCV) resulted in normalization of the MCA-PSV discordance.
Transabdominal cervical cerclage in triplet pregnancies and risk of extreme prematurity and neonatal loss.	There are no reports indicating the effect of prophylactic transabdominal cerclage (TAC) on the prolongation of multifetal pregnancies. We report the use of TAC in triplets, which evolved over 20 years in one practice. A retrospective cohort study of triplet pregnancies was conducted. Obstetric and neonatal outcomes were compared among women who underwent a prophylactic TAC or transvaginal cerclage and no cerclage. Of the 141 women who delivered triplets, prophylactic TAC was associated with reduced incidence of extreme prematurity and improved incidence of neonatal/postnatal survival. With the exception of mode of conception, prepregnancy weight, and the use of home monitoring uterine activity monitor, procardia and terbutaline, no major differences were found in terms of patient characteristics and pregnancy and delivery management among the three groups. It was concluded that in triplet pregnancies, prophylactic placement of a TAC appears to lower the incidence of delivery before 28 weeks.
Emotional faces capture spatial attention in 5-year-old children.	Emotional facial expressions are important social cues that convey salient affective information. Infants, younger children, and adults all appear to orient spatial attention to emotional faces with a particularly strong bias to fearful faces. Yet in young children it is unclear whether or not both happy and fearful faces extract attention. Given that the processing of emotional faces is believed by some to serve an evolutionarily adaptive purpose, attentional biases to both fearful and happy expressions would be expected in younger children. However, the extent to which this ability is present in young children and whether or not this ability is genetically mediated is untested. Therefore, the aims of the current study were to assess the spatial-attentional properties of emotional faces in young children, with a preliminary test of whether this effect was influenced by genetics. Five-year-old twin pairs performed a dot-probe task. The results suggest that children preferentially direct spatial attention to emotional faces, particularly right visual field faces. The results provide support for the notion that the direction of spatial attention to emotional faces serves an evolutionarily adaptive function and may be mediated by genetic mechanisms.
Spontaneous monochorionic triplet pregnancy with no fetal anomaly or feto-fetal transfusion.	We present a case of spontaneously conceived monochorionic triamniotic triplet pregnancy with no fetal anomaly or feto-fetal transfusion. The mother developed gestational diabetes at 20 weeks gestation, and at 20 weeks and 4 days gestation triplet 2 was found to have selective growth restriction and absent end diastolic flow. Although laser treatment and clamping of the umbilical cord of the growth-restricted baby was considered, the management was conservative with regular ultrasound scans and antenatal corticosteroids at 24 weeks gestation, and the umbilical artery Doppler reverted to normal at 26 weeks and 4 days and growth velocity was maintained. An elective caesarean section was performed at 33 weeks gestation to deliver three boys in excellent condition who only required feeding support.
Delayed interval delivery in a triplet gestation.	A 27-year-old Ghanaian primigravida with a known triamniotic trichorionic triplet pregnancy presented at 17 weeks gestation following a miscarriage of one triplet at home. Examination and investigation revealed no signs of imminent delivery or infection. After careful counselling with regard to prognosis and options available for management, the couple opted for intervention including rescue cerclage. The patient received antibiotic prophylaxis for five days and daily progesterone suppositories until delivery. An ultrasound scan was performed every three weeks to monitor fetal growth and cervical length. At 24 weeks corticosteroids for fetal lung maturity were given. At 31 weeks gestation she experienced spontaneous rupture of membranes followed by active labour and forceps delivery. There were no maternal complications. Both babies were born in a good condition, but required ventilatory support for 72 h.
Live birth of monochorionic triamniotic triplets after in vitro fertilization and blastocyst transfer: case report and review of the literature.	Monozygotic triplet pregnancies are very rare, even after in vitro fertilization (IVF). We present a case of a live birth of triplets from a monochorionic triamniotic pregnancy after blastocyst transfer. A 29-year-old woman underwent intracytoplasmic sperm injection (IVF-ICSI). Her medical history included a 4-year infertility treatment with ovarian stimulation, three cycles of intrauterine insemination, hysteroscopy and an unsuccessful attempt at IVF. During the second IVF attempt, the patient underwent ovulation simulation according to the long GnRH agonist protocol. Eleven metaphase II (MII) oocytes were injected with spermatozoa, resulting in four expanded blastocysts. In the end, two blastocysts (4AA) were transferred into the uterine cavity. Ultrasound examination performed at 7 weeks of gestation showed an ongoing triamniotic triplet pregnancy. Regular uterine contractions began at 33 weeks of gestation and a cesarean section was performed, resulting in a birth of three healthy girls, weighing 2060g (Apgar 7), 1860g (Apgar 6), 2000g (Apgar 6). After 13 days of hospitalization the infants and the mother were discharged home.
Increased monozygotic twinning rate after ovulation induction.	Multiple births after artificial induction of ovulation (AIO) are usually considered to be due to fertilisation of multiple ova. In the East Flanders Prospective Twin Study between 1978 and 1985 the frequency of zygotic splitting after AIO (1.2%) was significantly higher than the expected frequency (0.45%) among spontaneous twins and triplets. Moreover, after AIO the frequency of zygotic division was significantly higher in triplets than in twins. AIO seems to be the first identified biological mechanism influencing the monozygotic twinning rate.
Immunologic thrombocytopenic purpura and pregnancy: six new cases.	Six new cases of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) associated with pregnancy are reported; one of these patients delivered triplets. In addition, 78 patients with 122 pregnancies and 124 fetuses have been reported previously. The maternal mortality rate was 4% and the fetal mortality rate was 18%. Prior recommendations for elective cesarean section in all mothers with a platelet count less than 100,000/cu mm at delivery is not supported by the data available. Treatment of pregnant women with ITP with adrenal corticosteroids has virtually eliminated maternal mortality, has replaced splenectomy as the therapy of choice during pregnancy, but has had little effect on fetal mortality.
Recent trends in the incidence of multiple births and associated mortality.	The overall incidence of multiple births in England and Wales, which had been declining since the early 1950s, started to increase in the early 1980s in all age groups except for women under 20. This followed a rise in the incidence of triplet and higher order multiple births which had started in the late 1970s. Analyses of data for births between 1978 and 1983 showed that while stillbirth, perinatal, neonatal, and post-neonatal mortalities among multiple births fell considerably, they remained consistently higher than those for singleton births. Differences in the distribution of birth weight do not wholly explain these differences. Analyses of certified causes of stillbirth and death are difficult to interpret because a considerable proportion were attributed to 'multiple pregnancy'.
Triplet pregnancies in Linköping, Sweden, 1973-1981.	A survey of triplet pregnancies in Linköping, Sweden, 1973-1981, showed a low perinatal mortality (4%) and low morbidity possibly due to prophylactic bed rest and tocolytic treatment. All children were followed at child health clinics. In one child, a persistent growth retardation was recorded at 4 years of age. No psychomotor deviations were found in the group. An interview concerning social and economic factors after delivery was carried out. The answers revealed considerable strain in daily life for all families.
Sex ratio of triplet births in Japan.	The effects of paternal and maternal ages, gestational age and the socioeconomic factor of occupation on the sex ratio of triplet individuals were analysed using data on 4,290 triplet individuals which occurred in Japan during the period from 1955 to 1967 and in 1974. The sex ratios among live births and fetal deaths slightly decreased with time. The decline of the sex ratio was related to the decline of age-specific fertility in older mothers. The mean sex ratio was 0.479 during the period. The sex ratio is not high but similar to those of Europe and the USA. The sex ratio was lower in triplets than in twins or the general population. It seems that predominant male triplets may be selectively aborted in early gestational age compared with that of twins or the general population.
Metopic craniostenosis as a consequence of fetal head constraint: two interesting experiments of nature.	Two instances of metopic craniosynostosis provide dramatic experiments of nature which implicate fetal head constraint as one cause of early sutural fusion. The presumed restriction of growth stretch at the metopic suture in one instance was due to a bicornuate uterus in which the fetal head was markedly constrained. The second instance was in one of monozygotic triplets reared in a small mother in which the affected fetal head had been wedged between the hips of the two unaffected siblings.
Coexistent hydatidiform mole and live fetus in the second trimester: an ultrasound study.	The authors describe 4 cases of hydatidiform mole with a live fetus delivered between 20 and 22 weeks gestation. The ultrasound and clinical findings and the pathological classification are discussed. In 2 patients the mole completely replaced a separate placenta in a multiple gestation; in the other 2, the mole partially replaced a solitary placenta.
Problems in ultrasonic monitoring of multiple pregnancies.	Ultrasound would seem to be an ideal method of ensuring the early diagnosis of multiple pregnancy and also affords an opportunity to measure individual fetal growth thereafter. In a programme to study multiple pregnancies the majority were diagnosed early to allow adequate regular monitoring by ultrasound. Unexpected problems were encountered however and the failure rate to obtain satisfactory fetal biparietal measurements was almost three times that in singleton pregnancies.
Maternal and neonatal morbidity associated with in vitro fertilization.	The purpose of this case-control study was to examine the maternal and neonatal morbidities associated with in vitro fertilization (IVF) in a single large teaching hospital. It was hypothesized that IVF mothers would have more perinatal complications and IVF infants would have higher mortality and morbidity rates than non-IVF control subjects.
Triplet pregnancy after intracytoplasmic sperm injections]	Morphology of the spermatozoa is one of the major criteria in severe male subfertility. We report on a case of severe Oligoasthenoteratozoospermia in which a triplet pregnancy could be achieved after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). After treatment with GnRH-analogues/HMG/HCG seven oocytes of metaphase II could be retrieved and injected. Three of them fertilised and were transferred as four-cell stage embryos after two days. Seven weeks later an intact triplet pregnancy could be detected by ultrasonography. The severe sperm defects in this case were evaluated with the technique of electron microscopy. Ultramorphology of spermatozoa appears to have an important predictive value for fertilisation and pregnancy in classical IVF. Its value for the assisted procreation techniques such as ICSI remains to be investigated.
A twin study on age-related macular degeneration.	A prospective twin study on age-related macular degeneration (AMD) recruited 83 monozygotic pairs, 28 dizygotic pairs, and one triplet set from 1986 through 1993. Zygosity was determined by genetic testing of red cell markers, HLA antigens, or specific DNA loci. There were no twin pairs in which I collected data on only one twin. To decrease ascertainment bias, after 1991 the recruitment notice did not mention AMD, and I did not ask about a history of eye disease before the eye examination. Because of this, twin pairs recruited from 1986 through 1991 were statistically analyzed separately from those after January 1, 1992. From 1986 through 1991, 23 twin pairs were recruited; 11 monozygotic and 2 dizygotic pairs had nonAMD retinal changes or no retinal abnormalities, 9 monozygotic pairs with AMD were all concordant, and 1 dizygotic pair was discordant for basal laminar drusen. The concordance rate of AMD did not differ significantly between monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs (P = .10) for 1986 through 1991. In 1992 and 1993, 88 twin pairs and one triplet set were recruited; 49 monozygotic and 19 dizygotic pairs had nonAMD retinal changes or no retinal abnormalities, 14 monozygotic pairs with AMD were all concordant, and 2 of 7 dizygotic pairs were concordant for AMD. The nonidentical triplets (1 with and 2 without AMD) were categorized as one of the discordant dizygotic pairs in the statistical evaluation. In nontwin age-matched (within 2 or 5 years of age) or age- and sex-matched sibling pairs the concordance rate of AMD ranged from 16% to 25%. The concordance rate of AMD was significantly higher in monozygotic than in dizygotic twins (P = .001) for 1992 and 1993. The concordance rate was higher for monozygotic twin pairs recruited in 1992 and 1993 than in any of the four subsets of nontwin age-method or age- and sex-matched sibling pairs (P < .0001). Overall, from 1986 through 1993, 23 of 23 monozygotic and 2 of 8 dizygotic twin pairs were concordant for AMD; this included the one dizygotic pair which was discordant for basal laminar drusen. The data of this study strongly suggest a genetic predisposition to AMD.
Spontaneous quadruplet pregnancy in a woman with a personal and family history of spontaneous twin and triplet pregnancy. A case report.	Spontaneous quadruplet pregnancies are exceptional. As compared with singleton pregnancies, quadruplets are associated with a higher incidence of preterm labor, first-trimester bleeding, toxemia, anemia, stillbirths and perinatal deaths. We report a 25-year-old, black woman with a spontaneous quadruplet pregnancy. The patient had had a previous twin pregnancy and was herself a twin. The patient's mother had a history of twin and triplet pregnancies. Following the diagnosis, the patient was hospitalized and given betamethasone weekly. At 33 weeks' gestation she had spontaneous rupture of the membranes and delivered by cesarean section. The quadruplets had good Apgar scores and were discharged 5-10 weeks later in good health.
Triplet pregnancy with HELLP syndrome and transient diabetes insipidus]	A 35 year old primigravida with a triplet pregnancy developed polyuria and epigastric pain in the 31st week of pregnancy. During that week, emergency cesarean section was performed due to evidence of liver disease and imminent fetal hypoxia. Three girls were delivered who were healthy apart from transient neonatal respiration distress syndrome. Following surgery, the mother developed HELLP syndrome with hemolysis, increased transaminases and thrombocytopenia. She also developed diabetes insipidus with daily urine outputs of up to 7000 ml and poor response to desmopressin. Both the HELLP syndrome and the diabetes insipidus resolved spontaneously within ten days. In pregnant patients with right upper quadrant pain, HELLP syndrome or acute fatty liver of pregnancy should be considered. The association of diabetes insipidus with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is an established, but rare phenomenon. As far as is known, this is the first report of a patient presenting with a combination of HELLP syndrome and diabetes insipidus. Patients with HELLP syndrome have a good prognosis, if the diagnosis is early and the pregnancy terminated at the right time. With close supervision further pregnancies are possible.
Twins, triplets, and cerebral palsy in births in Western Australia in the 1980s.	To examine the rate of cerebral palsy in twins and triplets in births from 1980 to 1989 in Western Australia and to identify factors associated with increase in risk.
Avoidance of triplet pregnancies by elective transfer of two good quality embryos.	Attempts to increase the probability of a successful pregnancy in in-vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment by increasing the number of embryos transferred automatically also increase the probability of multiple pregnancies and their attendant risks. Even where the number of transferred embryos is limited to a maximum of three as in this and other centres, there is a high incidence of twins and triplets. The question therefore arises whether the number of transferred embryos should be further limited to a maximum of two in cases where the prognosis is otherwise good. The only objection to this idea is a possible lowering of pregnancy rate. The present study set out to investigate this question. No significant lowering of pregnancy rate was found, so that limiting the number of transferred embryos to two where the prognosis is otherwise good has now become standard practice in our centre. A good IVF prognosis was defined by the following criteria: first attempt for IVF, less than 37 years old, and good embryo development. From 183 patients fulfilling these criteria, 80 agreed to the transfer of two embryos (group 1) and 103 opted for a triple transfer (group 2). Patient characteristics and embryology results were similar in the two groups. In group 1, 34 patients (42.5%) became pregnant and in group 2, 50 (48.5%). This difference is not significant. Similarly, twin pregnancy rates in both groups were high; eight twin pregnancies (23.5%) in group 1 and 12 (24%) in group 2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ultrasonographic growth measurements in triplet pregnancies.	The incidence of triplet pregnancies is increasing due to the widespread use of ovulation induction agents and assisted conception treatments. The aim of this study was to acertain the normal ultrasonographic measurements for fetal growth parameters in triplet pregnancies. The ultrasonographic measurements of all triplet pregnancies managed in two major hospital centres were reviewed retrospectively and those in which there was less than 25% discordance in birth weight were included in the study. Triplet 50th centile for fetal biparietal diameter, whilst falling through the normal singleton centile range from 27 weeks gestation, did not fall below the 10th centile value of singletons. Triplet 50th centile for head circumference was equivalent to the singleton 10th centile from 23 weeks gestation. Triplet 50th centile for abdominal curcumference was persistently below that of the singleton 50th centile, falling below the singleton 10th centile from 29 weeks gestation. Normal growth rate of triplet gestations in the third trimester of pregnancy varies from that of singletons. An awareness of this altered growth rate is necessary to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of asymmetrical triplet fetal growth retardation. We suggest that the growth curves presented here may be used to monitor triplet fetal growth.
Sex ratio in triplets.	Since the introduction of different ovulation induction regimens the incidence of triplet pregnancies increased from a spontaneous rate of about 1:10,000 to the frequency of nearly 1:1000. Sex ratio of trigemini and male/female proportion of the three newborns within the same triplet set is the amazing issue that we attempted to elucidate in the present study. Data on 36 women with triplet pregnancies delivered in our hospital and information regarding 2717 triplet pregnancies reported by 16 relevant papers were included in this study. 36 women delivered 63 (58%) male and 45 (42%) female babies. Triplet sets of same gender comprised 33% of all trigemini. Sex ratios (male/female) for the spontaneous, menotropin and clomiphene group were 2.00, 1.57 and 0.94 respectively. Homogenous male/female set ratio was 5.0, 2.0 and 0.5 in menotropin, spontaneous and clomiphene groups respectively. As the percentage of ovulation induction triplet pregnancies increased constantly from 0% to 100%, a decline in the fraction of homogenous gender triplet sets was observed--from 73% to 23%. It may be concluded that sex ratio in triplet newborns is divergent according to different publications with most of the authors reporting a male/female ratio of less than 1.00. Ovulation induction results in a lower proportion of homogenous sex triplets sets. Superovulation by menotropins cause a higher percentage of male triplet newborns when compared to ovulation induction by clomiphene.
Triplet pregnancy and fetal reduction counselling.	The aim of this study was to compare the fetal loss between triplet pregnancies that underwent fetal reduction to twins and triplets which continued in spite of reduction being suggested to all of them. During a five year period a total of 3,518 cycles underwent ovarian stimulation with GnRH analogues, HMG, pure-FSH and HCG for the purpose of IVF; 2,918 women underwent ovarian aspiration leading to 2,380 embryotransfers. A total of 560 clinical pregnancies were detected with 24 clinical triplet pregnancies. Fourteen women continued their triplet pregnancy while 10 women underwent fetal reduction to twins. From 42 fetuses (14 triplets) starting the third trimester only 29 survived (total fetal loss 30.9%). From 14 fetuses (7 twins) starting the third trimester all survived. Three twins were lost during the second trimester due to cervix incompetence. Fetal reduction to twins must be proposed to each multifetal pregnancy, considering the very serious high mortality rate.
Relative birthweights of twins.	In a series of 182 twin gestations second-born twins were more often heavier than first-born twins (55%), but overall they weighed less by an average of 21 g. This paradox was shown to be due to the skewed distribution of weight differences favoring the first-born twin, most apparent among pairs in which one or both weighed at least 3000 g. The larger the difference between birthweights, the greater the likelihood that the heavier twin would be delivered first.
Delayed delivery of a triplet pregnancy without surgical intervention: a case report.	Multiple gestations have a significantly increased incidence of preterm labor and preterm rupture of membranes. This leads to an increase in neonatal morbidity and mortality due to prematurity. In this case, a 30-year-old woman achieved a triplet pregnancy by ovulation induction and intrauterine inseminations. Preterm premature rupture of membranes occurred at 21 6/7 weeks' gestation. At 24 weeks' gestation, preterm labor ensued and a vaginal delivery of the presenting triplet followed. Magnesium sulfate tocolysis was started after delivery. The patient was placed on bed rest, magnesium sulfate tocolysis, and weekly steroid injections. The second and third triplet delivered vaginally after a 46-day delay due to preterm labor. This is the first reported case of delayed delivery of the two remaining fetuses of a triplet pregnancy, after spontaneous preterm delivery of the presenting triplet, without surgical intervention. Although the first fetus expired 48 hours after delivery secondary to complications of prematurity, the other fetuses were subjected to tocolysis, bed rest, and steroids. This case illustrates that conservative management of a triplet pregnancy after preterm delivery of the presenting triplet may have a good outcome.
Intrapartum management of multiple gestations.	The proper intrapartum management of multiple gestations continues to be debated in the obstetric community. Ultrasonography is key in this management, through its initial assessment of the fetuses in the labor and delivery suite, observations of the second twin after the first has delivered, and its role in external cephalic version. The proper route of delivery requires further investigation for each combination of twin presentations and estimated fetal weights. It is recommended that the nonvertex second twin that is greater than 24 weeks' gestational age and fewer than 1700 g estimated fetal weight should have an attempt made at ECV and, if unsuccessful, a cesarean section should be performed. In the nonvertex second twin weighing greater than 1700 g, ECV or assisted breech extraction is appropriate. It is believed that all triplet gestations should be delivered abdominally. The use of intravenous nitroglycerin for uterine relaxation in multiple gestations is still experimental but may prove to be useful in the abdominal delivery of the nonvertex fetus. Further research is required to elucidate the most critical issues associated with the labor and delivery management of multiple gestations.
Triplet pregnancy and delivery after intracytoplasmic injection of round-headed spermatozoa.	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) of round-headed spermatozoa into mature oocyte resulted in normal fertilization, embryo development and pregnancy in a 28 year old female. The husband had a long history of primary infertility. Three ICSI attempts were carried out and fertilization and embryo development occurred in all trials. However, only the third trial led to a pregnancy, which proved to be quadruplet after the transfer of four embryos. One embryo vanished and the remaining triplets were delivered at 35 weeks of gestation by Caesarean section. Two of the babies, a boy weighing 2000 g and a girl weighing 2250 g at birth were discharged in a good condition 1 week after delivery and the third baby, a boy weighing 1550 g, was discharged 3 weeks after delivery.
"Idiopathic neutropenia" in very low birthweight infants.	We employed a standardized investigative approach to evaluate four cases of "idiopathic neutropenia" in very low birthweight infants. The evaluation included maternal anti-neutrophil antibodies, a marrow aspiration, and a three-day trial of recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rG-CSF). All patients had neutropenia at or shortly following delivery, and remained neutropenic (generally <500/microl) for 1-9 weeks until rG-CSF was administered. Blood and bone marrow studies in all 4 indicated that the neutropenia was: (i) the kinetic result of diminished neutrophil production; (ii) not alloimmune; (iii) not cyclic; and (iv) not associated with recognized inborn errors, bacterial or viral infections, or medications. All responded to rG-CSF by transiently increasing their blood neutrophils to normal, and the neutropenia resolved in all cases with time. It is likely that "idiopathic neutropenia" in this population represents a common phenotype of several different causes, rather than a single entity. Some cases, perhaps the majority, will respond to a short course of rG-CSF administration.
Birth in triplet pregnancies. Vaginal delivery--how often is it possible?	To compare cesarean section with vaginal delivery in triplet pregnancies.
Delayed interval delivery and survival of the two fetuses after second trimester loss of one triplet.	Due to the implementation of assisted reproduction techniques, the incidence of multiple pregnancies associated with fetal and neonatal complications has significantly increased. A woman in the 24th week of a triplet pregnancy came to the hospital because of premature rupture of membranes of one amniotic sack and she had a miscarriage of one of the fetuses the same day. After confirmation of the viability of the two fetuses, she was kept under observation with antibiotic therapy only. The woman gave live birth to these remaining fetuses in her 32nd week of pregnancy. The outcome of this case demonstrates that watchful expectancy may be a feasible alternative to invasive intervention. The aim of this report is to add to the currently very limited literature of an expectant (conservative) policy with regard to pregnancy outcome after the early loss of a fetus from a multiple pregnancy.
Triplet pregnancy with acardius acranius after preimplantation diagnosis.	To report the first case of fetal malformation after preimplantation diagnosis for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).
