Structure of the O-polysaccharide of the lipopolysaccharide of Rahnella aquatilis 1-95.	The O-polysaccharide was isolated by mild acid hydrolysis of the lipopolysaccharide of Rahnella aquatilis 1-95 and studied by sugar and methylation analyses along with 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy, including NOESY and 1H,13C HSQC experiments for linkage and sequence analysis. The following structure of the branched trisaccharide repeating unit of the O-polysaccharide was established: [carbohydrate structure: see text].
DNA replication in cell-free extracts from Xenopus eggs is prevented by disrupting nuclear envelope function.	The lectin, wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), has previously been shown to prevent transport into the cell nucleus. This paper shows that WGA also inhibits nuclear DNA replication, under the same conditions that prevent transport. Although WGA eliminates sperm nuclear DNA replication in a cell-free extract of Xenopus eggs, DNA synthesis on a single-stranded template proceeds normally. Inhibition of nuclear DNA replication is partially reversed by addition of N-acetylglucosamine, and completely reversed by triacetylchitotriose. Sensitivity to inhibition by WGA is greatest during the nuclear assembly phase, and nuclear formation on sperm chromatin is blocked. DNA replication in preformed nuclear templates is also sensitive to WGA inhibition. I propose that WGA blocks DNA replication by preventing nuclear transport. The data presented here also indicate that, under certain circumstances, the elongation stage of DNA replication does not proceed in the absence of an intact nuclear envelope. The roles of the nuclear envelope and active nuclear transport in DNA replication are discussed.
Journey from hepatocyte transplantation to hepatic stem cells: a novel treatment strategy for liver diseases.	Acute liver failure (ALF) carries high morbidity and mortality (>80%) even in the best centres. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTx) is the only viable approach to the treatment of ALF. This has significantly improved the survival in these patients. The major limitations of OLTx are non availability of the donor liver, requirement of a major surgical procedure, high cost and longterm immunosuppression. Isolated hepatocyte transplantation is emerging as an appealing method for the treatment of ALF because of its technical simplicity and easy availability of cells. Transplantation of allogenic/xenogenic hepatocytes transplantation in experimentally induced ALF has shown an increased survival rate. Clinical studies in acute, chronic liver failure and metabolic disorders have also been undertaken in a few centres and have shown encouraging results. To maintain the continuous supply of cells, xenogenic source of hepatocytes (porcine, rabbit, canine) have offered a hope. A major concern regarding the use of xenogenic donors is the risk of transmission of zoonosis and immunogenicity. Recently, Porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV) has been shown to infect human tissue in vitro. The problem of immunogenicity of xenogenic hepatocytes can be overcome to some extent by immunoisolation, encapsulation technique, which may also provide protection to the hepatocytes during cryopreservation. The knowledge of adult hepatic stem from tissue offered a new hope for the treatment of various chronic and metabolic diseases. Further, the transdifferentiation potentiality of haematopoietic stem cells to hepatic lineage has strengthened cell therapy.
Microsomal chitinase activity from Candida albicans.	Chitinase (E.C. 3.2.1.14) was characterized in microsomal fractions from yeast cells of Candida albicans. Following six washes with buffer (50 mM Bis-Tris.Cl, pH 6.5), enzyme activity of microsomes fell markedly to 0.3% of total and 6% of the specific activity detected in the low-speed supernatant (9000 X g) of a cell lysate. An apparently zymogenic, microsomal chitinase activity became more readily detectable with washing and after six washes enzyme activity was activated 1.7-fold following pre-incubation with trypsin. The following properties of microsomal chitinase were closely comparable with those for cytosolic chitinase (indicated in parentheses): Km = 2.1 mg chitin per ml (2.9 mg chitin per ml); temperature optimum = 45 degrees C (45 degrees C); inhibition by allosamidin competitive, Ki = 0.29 microM (competitive, Ki = 0.23 microM). A range of detergents solubilized and activated microsomal chitinase in a highly specific manner. Following density gradient centrifugation of microsomes, chitinase was distributed approximately evenly throughout the gradient suggesting that microsomal chitinase is not associated exclusively with any one membrane component. The possible morphogenetic role of microsomal chitinase is discussed in relation to the potential of this enzyme as a target for highly specific antifungal agents.
Nasal polyp chitinolytic activity associated with smoking or allergy.	Cells of the innate immune system that are implicated in allergy and immunity bind to chitin during tissue infiltration in a process negatively regulated by vertebrate chitinases. Both acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) and chitotriosidase (ChT) exert chitinolytic activity. The levels of activities of these enzymes in nasal polyps (NPs) of subjects who smoke or who suffer from allergies are unknown. In the present work, we measured the activities of AMCase and ChT in NPs of smokers and allergic subjects.
Selective isolation of endo-D-galacturonanase of Aspergillus niger based on interaction with tri(D-galactosiduronic acid) covalently bound to poly(hydroxyalkyl methacrylate).	A selective affinity-adsorbent for the extracellular endo-D-galacturonanase (E.C. 3.2.1.15) of Aspergillus niger was prepared by covalent coupling of tri(D-galactosiduronic acid) to Separon, a poly(hydroxyalkyl methacrylate) gel. Complexing of the enzyme with the adsorbent is pH dependent; maximal interaction occurs at the optimum pH for enzyme activity. The enzyme was quantitatively displaced from the adsorbent either by changing the pH or by bioelution with soluble tri(D-galactosiduronic acid) or other substrate. Within the range of substitution of Separon examined [content of tri(D-galactosiduronic acid) 1.7-6.7%] the amount of endo-D-galacturonanase retained was proportional to the content of affinity ligand. Under the same conditions, unsubstituted carrier did not complex with endo-D-galacturonanase. The dissociation constant of the affinity complex, as determined by zonal analysis, kinetic measurements, and by means of the adsorption isotherm KL (0.54 mmol.L-1), is close to the value (KI 0.44 mmol.L-1) obtained by the two first methods with soluble tri(D-galactosiduronic acid). The results show that adsorption of endo-D-galacturonanase on tri(D-galactosiduronic acid)-Separon is due exclusively to active-site-directed interaction with bound affinity-ligand.
Binding of manno-oligosaccharides to concanavalin A. Substitution titration with a fluorescent-indicator ligand.	The association constants for binding of methyl alpha-D-mannopyranoside (I), mannobiose (II) and mannotriose (III) to concanavalin A were determined in the temperature range 285-313 K by a substitution titration, using 4-methylumbelliferyl alpha-D-mannopyranoside as a carbohydrate-specific and fluorescent indicator. All binding equilibria are simple, but establish extremely slowly with II and III. At 298.3 K, K increases moderately from I to III: (6.4 +/- 0.5) x 10(3), (1.2 +/- 0.1) x 10(4) and (1.10 +/- 0.05) x 10(5) M-1. For binding of I, II and III, the - delta H degree values are constant (36 +/- 2 kJ mol-1) and equal to the average value (36.1 +/- 0.6 kJ mol-1) obtained for the three corresponding 4-methylumbelliferyl alpha-D-manno-oligosaccharides [Van Landschoot, A., Loontiens, F. G., and De Bruyne, C. K (1978) Eur. J. Biochem. 83, 277-285]. The data are interpreted as arising from specific binding to a single mannopyranosyl residue in (alpha 1 leads to 2)-linked manno-oligosaccharides.
Modification of catalytic groups in lysozyme with ethylenimine.	The reaction of lysozyme with ethylenimine has been studied at neutral and acidic pH. At least four singly modified lysozyme derivatives have been isolated. From the product analyses, only carboxyl groups in the protein were found to react. One of the derivatives, 1, was very labile and reverted back to native lysozyme during the isolation procedure. Its formation was markedly inhibited by the presence of tri(N-acetyl-D-glucosamine), indicating that the modified carboxyl residue in 1 is at or close to the binding site of lysozyme for the trisaccharide. Two other derivatives were identified as 2-aminoethyl esters of Glu-35 (2) and Asp-52 (3). At pH 10 and room temperature, these derivatives rearranged to the corresponding 2-hydroxyethylamide derivatives (5 and 6). A fourth derivative (4) did not contain an ethanolamine moiety; nevertheless, its Glu-35 was found to be modified by sequence analysis. Lysozyme derivatives modified at Glu-35 and Asp-52 were inactive toward glycol chitin but retained high affinity for tri(N-acetyl-D-glucosamine). Thus, Glu-35 and Asp-52 are essential for enzyme activity. A mechanism for the selective modification of these carboxyl residues in lysozyme has been proposed and related to the metal binding ability of lysozyme.
