Correlation between oral parafunction and temporomandibular disorders and emotional status among saudi children.	Studies on association between temporomandibular disorders and oral parafunction in preschool children are few. The aim of the present study is to investigate the relationship between the subjective and objective signs and symptoms of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), oral parafunction and emotional status in preschool children. The study is based on a clinical examination and questionnaire. Five hundred and two Saudi children aged 3 to 7 years were examined for different signs and symptoms of TMD. In addition, the parents of the children were given a questionnaire to investigate the existence of oral parafunction and evaluate the emotional status of children. The results of the study showed significant association between attrition and temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain, muscle tenderness and restricted opening, (P Values were 0.008, 0.019, 0.037 respectively). Significant association was found between habit of grinding and pain, while eating or opening the mouth (P<0.012). Significant association was found between emotional status and multiple signs and symptoms of TMJ tenderness, TMJ pain and muscle tenderness (P<0.042). Significant association was found between emotional status and pain, while eating or opening of the mouth (P<0.048). Close to positive association was found between oral parafunction and jaw lock. The association between TMD and oral parafunction as well as emotional status should direct the attention of the dentist to the importance of considering the emotional status, oral parafunction and TMD when examining and formulating treatment plan for the child patient.
Surgical correction of trismus in a child with Hecht syndrome.	Hecht syndrome is a rare condition that is also known as trismus pseudocamptodactyly syndrome. Short muscle and tendon units limiting the range of motion of upper and lower extremities and mouth characterize this disorder of muscle development. There is no consensus on the optimal treatment of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis in this patient population. Endoscopic release in one patient resulted in early postoperative recurrence. The authors present a 28-month old boy who had a limited mouth opening of 6 mm. CT scan showed no bony ankylosis. The range of mouth opening did not to improve with physical therapy. The patient underwent extensive subperiosteal dissection of the mandible, bilateral coronoidectomy, and TMJ exploration. An intraoperative opening of 18 mm was achieved. The patient remained intubated until postoperative swelling resolved. He was extubated in the operating room 6 days later. The patient continued to improve with physical therapy. He had a 25-mm mouth opening at 12 months of follow-up.
Fabrication of a sectional impression tray and sectional complete denture for a patient with microstomia and trismus: a clinical report.	This article describes techniques used to fabricate mandibular and maxillary sectional trays and a folding maxillary complete denture for a patient with limited oral opening caused by scleroderma. For the foldable denture, the anterior teeth had to be arranged on a second base and the hinge fitted at a location higher than the denture base. These 2 factors increased the thickness of the denture and limited the volume of the tongue. Nevertheless, a single-piece denture base provided the patient with ease in placement and removal of the denture.
Retromolar fibreoptic orotracheal intubation in a patient with severe trismus undergoing nasal surgery.	A considerable challenge arises when passage of an endotracheal tube between the teeth is impossible because of severe trismus and the presence of concomitant contraindications to nasotracheal intubation. We report a novel technique to circumvent the need for tracheostomy by using the retromolar space for oral fibreoptic intubation.
