Determination of ligand-protein dissociation constants by electrospray mass spectrometry-based diffusion measurements.	A novel approach for the quantification of ligand-protein interactions is presented. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) is used to monitor the diffusion behavior of noncovalent ligands in the presence of their protein receptors. These data allow the fraction of free ligand in solution to be determined, such that the corresponding dissociation constants can be calculated. A set of conditions is developed that provides an "allowable range" of concentrations for this type of assay. The method is tested by applying it to two different inhibitor-enzyme systems. The dissociation constants measured for benzamidine-trypsin and for N,N',N' '-triacetylchitotriose-lysozyme are (50 +/- 10) and (6 +/- 1) mM, respectively. Both of these results are in good agreement with previous data from the literature. In contrast to traditional ESI-MS-based methods, the approach used in this work does not rely on the preservation of specific solution-type noncovalent interactions in the gas phase. It is shown that this method allows an accurate determination of dissociation constants, even in cases in which the ion abundance ratio of free to ligand-bound protein in ESI-MS does not reflect the corresponding concentration ratio in solution.
Comprehensive profiles of human milk oligosaccharides yield highly sensitive and specific markers for determining secretor status in lactating mothers.	Human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), as an abundant and bioactive component of breast milk, work in many ways to promote the health of breast fed infants. The expression of HMOs has been shown to vary in accordance with Lewis blood type and secretor status, as women of different blood types differ in the expression of α1,2 fucosyltransferase (FUT2) and α1,3/4 fucosyltransferase (FUT3). In this study, HMOs were extracted from the milk of 60 women from The Gambia, Africa with various Lewis and secretor blood types. The HMOs were profiled using high resolution HPLC-Chip/TOF mass spectrometry. Notably, the amounts of fucosylation varied significantly between Le(a+b-) nonsecretors, Le(a-b+) and Le(a-b-) secretors, and Le(a-b-) nonsecretors. With higher frequency of expression of the recessive Lewis negative and nonsecretor phenotypes in West African populations, the HMO profiles of several milks from women of these phenotypes were examined, demonstrating decreased amounts of total oligosaccharide abundance and lower relative amounts of fucosylation. Also in this study, four specific fucosylated structures (2'FL, LNFP I, LDFT, and LNDFH I) were determined to be specific and sensitive glycan markers for rapidly determining secretor status without the need for serological testing.
Antigenic polysaccharides of bacteria. 25. Structure of the O-specific polysaccharide chain of Pseudomonas cepacia 673/2 lipopolysaccharide containing L-glycero-D-manno-heptose]	O-Specific polysaccharide, consisting of D-rhamnose and L-glycero-D-manno-heptose (LD-Hep) in a 2 : 1 ratio, was obtained on the mild acid degradation of the Pseudomonas cepacia IMV 673/2 lipopolysaccharide; monosaccharide LD-Hep has not previously been found in O-specific chains of lipopolysaccharides. On the basis of methylation and 13C-NMR data, it was concluded that the polysaccharide is composed of trisaccharide repeating units having the following structure: ----3)-alpha-D-Rha-(1----3)-alpha-D-Rha-(1----2)-alpha-LD-Hep-(1----
Synthetic mucin fragments. Benzyl O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1----3)-O-(2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D- glucopyranosyl)-(1----6)-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-alpha-D-galactopyranoside and O-alpha-L-fucopyranosyl-(1----3)-O-(2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D- glucopyranosyl)-(1----6)-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-galactopyranose.	Benzyl 2-acetamido-6-O-(2-acetamido-2-deoxy-4,6-O-isopropylidene-beta-D- glucopyranosyl)-2-deoxy-3,4-O-isopropylidene-alpha-D-galactopyranoside (2) was obtained by acetalation of its parent disaccharide with 2,2-dimethoxypropane in hot N,N-dimethylformamide and in the presence of 4-toluenesulfonic acid. Glycosylation of 2 with 2,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-alpha-D-galactopyranosyl bromide (catalyzed by mercuric cyanide), followed by removal of the protecting groups afforded the title trisaccharide 7. A second product was also isolated, which was identified as a derivative of 7 having a 2-cyanopropyl group. Glycosylation of diacetal 2 with 2,3,4-tri-O-benzyl-alpha-L-fucopyranosyl bromide (under catalysis by bromide ion), followed by systematic removal of the protecting groups furnished the title trisaccharide 13. The structures of both 7 and 13 were established by 13C-n.m.r. spectroscopy.
Lipopolysaccharide of Rhodospirillum salinarum 40: structural studies on the core and lipid A region.	The structural elucidation of lipid A of the cell wall lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Rhodospirillum salinarum 40 by chemical methods and laser desorption mass spectrometry revealed the presence of a mixed lipid A composed of three different 1,4'bisphosphorylated beta (1 --> 6)-linked backbone hexosaminyl-hexosamine disaccharides, i.e. those composed of GlcN --> GlcN, 2,3-diamino-2,3-dideoxy-D-Glc-(DAG --> DAG, and DAG --> GlcN. Lipid A of R. salinarum contained preferentially 3-OH-18:0 and 3-OH-14:0 as amide-linked and cis delta 11-18:1 and c19:0 as ester-linked fatty acids. The mass spectra of the liberated acyl-oxyacyl residues proved the concomitant presence of 3-O-(cis delta 11-18:1)-18:0 and 3-O-(c19:0)-14:0 as the predominating diesters in this mixed lipid A. The glycosidically linked and the ester-linked phosphate groups of the backbone disaccharide were neither substituted by ethanolamine, phosphorylethanolamine, nor by 4-amino-4-deoxy-L-arabinose, in contrast to most of the enterobacterial lipid As. In the core oligosaccharide fraction, a HexA (1 --> 4)HexA(1 --> 5)Kdo-trisaccharide was identified by methylation analysis. The terminal HexA (hexuronic acid) is possibly 4-OMe-GalA, a component described here as an LPS constituent for the first time. LPS of R. salinarum showed a lethality in C57BL/10 ScSN (LPS-responder)-mice) of an order of 10(-1)-10(-2) of that reported for Salmonella abortus equi LPS, and it was also capable of inducing TNF alpha and IL6 in macrophages of C57BL/10ScSN mice.
Molecular recognition of a Salmonella trisaccharide epitope by monoclonal antibody Se155-4.	The binding site of monoclonal antibody Se155-4, which has been the object of successful crystallographic and antibody-engineering studies, is shown by solid-phase immunoassays to be complementary to a branched trisaccharide, alpha-D-Galp(1-->2) [alpha-D-Abep(1-->3)]-alpha-D-Manp(1, rather than to the tetrasaccharide repeating unit alpha-D-Galp(1-->2) [alpha-D-Abep(1-->3)]-alpha-D-Manp(1-->4) alpha-L-Rhap(1- of the bacterial antigen. Specificity for the 3,6-dideoxy-D-xylo-hexose (3,6-dideoxy-D-galactose) epitope present in Salmonella paratyphi B O-antigens was ensured by screening hybridoma experiments with glycoconjugates derived from synthetic oligosaccharides. Detailed epitope mapping of the molecular recognition by modified and monodeoxy oligosaccharide derivatives showed that complementary surfaces and three antibody-saccharide hydrogen bonds are essential for full binding activity. Both hydroxyl groups of the 3,6-dideoxy-D-galactose residue were obligatory for binding and consistent with the directional nature of their involvement in carbohydrate-protein hydrogen bonds; related tetrasaccharides built from the isomeric 3,6-dideoxyhexoses, 3,6-dideoxy-D-glucose, paratose, and 3,6-dideoxy-D-mannose, tyvelose were not bound by the antibody. Titration microcalorimetry measurements were consistent with the hydrogen-bonding map inferred from the crystal structure and suggest that the displacement of water molecules from the binding site accounts for the favorable entropy that accompanies binding of the native trisaccharide determinant. The protein sequences determined for the antibody VL and VH domains reveal somatic mutation of the VL germ line gene, implying that this antibody-binding site results from a mature antibody response.
Lipophosphoglycan is present in distinctly different form in different Entamoeba histolytica strains and absent in Entamoeba moshkovskii and Entamoeba invadens.	Lipophosphoglycan has recently been demonstrated on the cell surface of Entamoeba histolytica strain HM-1:IMSS. A monoclonal antibody against this molecule had failed to react with some other strains of E. histolytica, including the strain Rahman. To determine if a structurally distinct lipophosphoglycan existed in Rahman, [3H]galactose-labeled glycoconjugates were electrophoresed through sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The electrophoretic pattern in Rahman was very different compared to that obtained with strains HM-1:IMSS and 200:NIH. A number of experiments including sensitivity to mild acid, nitrous acid and phosphoinositol-specific phospholipase C suggest that the Rahman glycoconjugate is indeed a lipophosphoglycan-like molecule but distinctly different from that of HM-1:IMSS. Mild acid-treated glycoconjugates from Rahman and HM-1:IMSS revealed the presence of neutral trisaccharides and monosaccharides in Rahman but not in HM-1:IMSS. Human immune sera from amoebiasis patients and a polyclonal antibody against HM-1:IMSS lipophosphoglycan both recognized Rahman glycoconjugate. Thus, while lipophosphoglycan molecules from the two strains share common epitopes, they are clearly distinct from each other. Molecules bearing resemblance to lipophosphoglycan could not be detected in other Entamoeba species, namely Entamoeba invadens and Entamoeba moshkovskii.
Binding of amaranthin in photoreceptors of monkey retina.	The binding of amaranthin, specific for the Gal beta 1,3 GalNAc and NeuAc alpha 2,3 Gal beta 1,3 GalNAc sequences, to the photoreceptors of the monkey retina was investigated using the avidin-biotinylated peroxidase method. Amaranthin bound to the surfaces of both cone and rod photoreceptors. This and previous lectin histochemical studies show that O-glycoside-linked glycoconjugates are present on the surfaces of both cones and rods: Gal beta 1,3 GalNAc and NeuAc alpha 2,3 Gal beta 1,3 GalNAc are the terminal sugars of the glycoconjugates around cones and rods, respectively.
Pulmonary metastases of breast carcinomas: ligandohistochemical, nuclear, and structural analysis of primary and metastatic tumors with emphasis on period of occurrence of metastases and survival.	Pulmonary metastases of breast carcinomas have a high frequency and are often subject to surgical intervention. To contribute to advances in the knowledge about morphometric and biochemical parameters of primary tumors and their metastatic lesions, analysis of syntactic structure and thermodynamic aspects as well as of expression of distinct glycohistochemical features with respect to period of metastasis occurrence and patient survival is desirable.
