Simplified method for detecting tritium contamination in plants and soil.	Cost-effective methods are needed to identify the presence and distribution of tritium near radioactive waste disposal and other contaminated sites. The objectives of this study were to (i) develop a simplified sample preparation method for determining tritium contamination in plants and (ii) determine if plant data could be used as an indicator of soil contamination. The method entailed collection and solar distillation of plant water from foliage, followed by filtration and adsorption of scintillation-interfering constituents on a graphite-based solid phase extraction (SPE) column. The method was evaluated using samples of creosote bush [Larrea tridentata (Sessé & Moc. ex DC.) Coville], an evergreen shrub, near a radioactive disposal area in the Mojave Desert. Laboratory tests showed that a 2-g SPE column was necessary and sufficient for accurate determination of known tritium concentrations in plant water. Comparisons of tritium concentrations in plant water determined with the solar distillation-SPE method and the standard (and more laborious) toluene-extraction method showed no significant difference between methods. Tritium concentrations in plant water and in water vapor of root-zone soil also showed no significant difference between methods. Thus, the solar distillation-SPE method provides a simple and cost-effective way to identify plant and soil contamination. The method is of sufficient accuracy to facilitate collection of plume-scale data and optimize placement of more sophisticated (and costly) monitoring equipment at contaminated sites. Although work to date has focused on one desert plant, the approach may be transferable to other species and environments after site-specific experiments.
Isotopes as tracers in a contaminated fractured chalk aquitard.	Clusters of industrial plants often generate contaminant plumes with several potential sources. Prevention of further pollution and designing suitable remedial measures require identification of the contributing source among all potential ones and the sorting of currently active sources from historical ones. In the study area, an industrial complex in the Negev desert, Israel, contaminants could not serve as indicators for the contamination sources because of their extensive spatial distribution across the site. However, stable isotopes of oxygen, hydrogen and sulfur, as well as tritium, proved to be efficient tools for this task. The isotopic characterization of the potential end members provided the criteria for constraining a contaminating source when several alternative sources appeared viable. The isotopic fractionation of oxygen and hydrogen isotopes could be tied to the various disposal phases of the industrial wastewater. The three case studies presented here confirm the important role of isotopes as tracers in contaminated sites.
Determination of tritium and 14C concentration in two hydrostratigraphic units below the University of California, Davis, waste burial holes at the Laboratory for Energy-Related Health Research/South Campus Disposal Site (LEHR/SCDS).	The Laboratory for Energy-Related Health Research site at the University of California at Davis was used as a disposal site for tritium and 14C waste generated by campus related research. This low-level radioactive waste was disposed of by shallow land burial from 1956 to 1974 in waste burial holes and resulted in extensive contamination of soils and groundwater at the LEHR/SCDS. In part, due to this contamination, the LEHR/SCDS was placed on the National Priority List in May of 1994. In 1999, soils in the vicinity of the waste burial holes were subject to a CERCLA Removal Action. To this day elevated tritium and 14C concentrations are found in two groundwater monitoring wells that are located down gradient from the waste burial holes. The Bioscreen, Natural Attenuation Decision Support System software program was used, along with site-specific hydrogeologic conditions, to estimate the maximum source zone concentrations in the water bearing intervals below the waste burial holes. The first order decay process, and assumptions of horizontal flow provided reasonably accurate estimates of contaminant concentrations in the unconfined portion of the water bearing interval, but results for the confined portion of the water bearing intervals were mixed. Dose estimates for the time period of maximum contaminant concentration in the aquifer below the waste burial holes, predicted by modeling, suggested that the 4 mrem drinking water standard had not been exceeded at this site.
Results of the European Commission MARINA II study: part I--general information and effects of discharges by the nuclear industry.	From the collated data relevant to discharges by the nuclear industry, it results that the input of beta activity (excluding Chernobyl fallout and tritium) into the OSPAR region decreased by a factor of 4 from 1986 to 1991, reaching by this date the same level as in the early 1950s. Over the same period the discharges of the alpha activity into the OSPAR region also decreased by a factor 3, the same trend has been seen also for tritium. Since 1986 the effective dose to members of the critical group in the vicinity of Sellafield and Cap de La Hague was consistently below the ICRP and EU limit of 1 mSv per year to members of the general public. The overall radiological impact from nuclear industry on the population of the European Union from the OSPAR area has decreased from 280 manSv y(-1) in 1978 to 14 manSv y(-1) in 2000.
Anisotropic diffusion in layered argillaceous rocks: a case study with Opalinus Clay.	Anisotropic diffusion was studied in Opalinus Clay, a potential host rock for disposal of spent fuel, vitrified high-level waste, and long-lived intermediate-level waste in Switzerland. Diffusion parallel to the bedding was measured using a radial through-diffusion technique and diffusion perpendicular to the bedding bythe classical (planar) through-diffusion technique. The samples used were from Mont Terri (MT) and from Benken (BE). Diffusion of HTO, 36Cl-, and 22Na+ parallel and perpendicular to the bedding was studied under confining pressures of 7 MPa (MT) and 14 MPa (BE). The results indicate that diffusion parallel to the bedding is faster than diffusion perpendicular to the bedding by a factor of 4-6 for the three radionuclides, indicating that the Opalinus Clay is anisotropic. This might be explained by smaller path lengths (tortuosity) for species diffusing parallel to the fabric. The degree of anisotropy is slightly smaller for Opalinus Clay from Mont Terri than from Benken. This is due to the lower overburden pressure in Mont Terri resulting in a lower preferential orientation of the clay platelets.
Radiation quality of tritium.	Tritium occurs from both natural and manufactured processes. In the environment, tritium can exist in the form of tritiated water (HTO) and in an organic form known as organically-bound tritium (OBT). Although, the concentrations of environmental OBT are relatively low, there is concern that current risk factors may underestimate the risk from OBT. Because tritium poses an internal hazard at cellular levels, microdosimetric techniques provide suitable tools for the study of radiation quality of tritium. In this study, microdosimetric simulations are performed for tritium uniformly distributed in a medium, and for tritium bound to biologically critical sites of dimensions from 10 nm to 2 microm. Results of local energy density are different for these two cases in microscopic regions. Based on the spatial distribution of energy deposition, dose mean lineal energies are calculated for tritium in forms of HTO and OBT. The dose mean lineal energies of OBT are about a factor of 1.7 higher than those of HTO in a wide range of target dimensions of biological interest. The results are consistent with radiobiological findings that OBT is about twice as effective as that of HTO.
Utilization of decadal tritium variation for assessing the residence time of base flow.	An iterative algorithm is presented that allows the user to model the subsurface residence time of shallow ground water comprising stream base flow based on decadal scale variation of tritium concentrations. The algorithm accounts for the effects of radioactive decay, the shallow subsurface mixing of ground water with precipitation, and ground water flux. The inverse of the best-fitting modeled flux through the saturated zone is equivalent to the residence time. The data required for this model include at least two measurements of tritium in base flow for a given stream location made at least a decade apart and the long-term tritium input in precipitation for the region of interest. The model is sensitive to relatively small changes in tritium concentrations and is limited by analytic uncertainties to an accuracy of approximately +/-5 years. The algorithm was applied to stream base flow for several basins in the Piedmont Province of Georgia in which tritium concentrations were measured during the early 1990s and again in the 2000s. The model results produced highly concordant residence times for three hydrogeologically similar basins in the Upper Ocmulgee Basin in North Central Georgia. The best estimate of the average residence time for ground water comprising base flow in this Piedmont basin using this new method is between approximately 14 and 18 years. These results are generally consistent with calculations made in previous studies, and these relatively long residence times can be attributed to the storage of water in the clay soils that dominate Piedmont Province watersheds.
Tritium contents in water reservoirs and water supply sources in several regions of the Ukrainian S.S.R]	At present the main sources of tritium detectable in basins of the Ukrainian SSR are NPPs. Tritium control in waters is one of the most sensitive methods of environmental radio monitoring in the regions of NPPs sites and may serve as indicator of nuclear technology stability.
Functional expression of milligram quantities of the synthetic human serotonin transporter gene in a tetracycline-inducible HEK293 cell line.	The serotonin transporter (SERT), a member of the solute carrier 6 family, is responsible for reuptake of the monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) from the synaptic cleft on the neural cells, and a vital target for several antidepressants. To investigate biophysical studies of this pharmacologically relevant transporter, we developed a mammalian expression system with tetracycline-inducible HEK293 cells using synthetic human SERT genes produced by PCR-based self-assembly method. Codon-optimization of this de novo constructed genes and construction of stable cell lines improved expression 3.5-fold and single-step immunoaffinity purification with FLAG-epitope tag yielded around one milligram functional SERT per liter culture medium assessed by [(3)H] imipramine ligand binding. Some characterizations including electrospray ionization MS/MS analysis, subcellular localization and cellular-uptake assay demonstrated that expressed human SERT was properly expressed, folded and fully functional. The long cytosolic N-terminal of SERT was predicted as containing 'intrinsically disordered region (IDR)' (∼85 residues) by DISOPRED2 program. We engineered this salient region by step-wise truncation and ligand binding assay determined that dissociation constant for a series of de novo designed truncation constructs was close to the one for full-length wild type SERT. Our expression platform using synthetic codon-optimized gene and mammalian stable cell lines is feasible to produce milligram-scale functional membrane transporter for further biophysical and biochemical studies.
Drinking water standard for tritium-what's the risk?	This paper presents an assessment of lifetime risks of cancer incidence associated with the drinking water standard for tritium established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA); this standard is an annual-average maximum contaminant level (MCL) of 740 Bq L(-1). This risk assessment has several defining characteristics: (1) an accounting of uncertainty in all parameters that relate a given concentration of tritium in drinking water to lifetime risk (except the number of days of consumption of drinking water in a year and the number of years of consumption) and an accounting of correlations of uncertain parameters to obtain probability distributions that represent uncertainty in estimated lifetime risks of cancer incidence; (2) inclusion of a radiation effectiveness factor (REF) to represent an increased biological effectiveness of low-energy electrons emitted in decay of tritium compared with high-energy photons; (3) use of recent estimates of risks of cancer incidence from exposure to high-energy photons, including the dependence of risks on an individual's gender and age, in the BEIR VII report; and (4) inclusion of risks of incidence of skin cancer, principally basal cell carcinoma. By assuming ingestion of tritium in drinking water at the MCL over an average life expectancy of 80 y in females and 75 y in males, 95% credibility intervals of lifetime risks of cancer incidence obtained in this assessment are (0.35, 12) × 10(-4) in females and (0.30, 15) × 10(-4) in males. Mean risks, which are considered to provide the best single measure of expected risks, are about 3 × 10(-4) in both genders. In comparison, USEPA's point estimate of the lifetime risk of cancer incidence, assuming a daily consumption of drinking water of 2 L over an average life expectancy of 75.2 y and excluding an REF for tritium and incidence of skin cancer, is 5.6 × 10(-5). Probability distributions of annual equivalent doses to the whole body associated with the drinking water standard for tritium also were obtained. Means and 97.5th percentiles of maximum annual doses to females and males, which occur at age <1 y, all are less than the annual equivalent dose of 40 μSv used by USEPA to establish the MCL.
The study of molecular mechanisms of action of natural amino acids and serotonin on adenylyl and guanylyl cyclases of the ciliates]	It has been previously shown that some amino acids and their derivatives are capable of regulating the activity of adenylyl cyclase (AC) and guanylate cyclase (GC) in free-living ciliates Dileptus anser and Tetrahymena. The aim of this work was to study the molecular mechanisms of action of methionine, tyrosine, alanine and neurohormone serotonin on the activity of enzymes-cyclases and the identification of their specific receptors in D. anser and T. pyriformis. Methionine and serotonin significantly increased the basal AC activity in both ciliates, and the AC effect of serotonin in T. pyriformis was carried out with the participation of Ca2+-dependent form of AC and heterotrimetic G proteins. AC stimulating effect of tyrosine and alanine was expressed weakly and only detected in D. anser. Serotonin is both ciliates and alanine in D. anser stimulated GC activity, whereas methionine and tyrosine had no effect on GC. Methionine and serotonin bind to surface receptors of the ciliates with high affinity. K(D) for [methyl-3H] methionine binding to D. anser and T. pyriformis were 7.5 and 35.6 nM, and for [3H] serotonin binding were 2.7 and 4.7 nM, respectively. Alanine and tyrosine bind to the ciliates with low affinity. Thus, ciliates D. anser and T. pyriformis have chemosignaling systems regulated by amino acids and their derivatives and including the enzymes with cyclase activity. There is an assumption that these systems are similar to hormonal signaling systems of higher eukaryotes and are their predecessors.
Tritium as an indicator of venues for nuclear tests.	Currently, due to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons there is a highly topical issue of an accurate verification of nuclear explosion venues. This paper proposes to consider new method for verification by using tritium as an indicator. Detailed studies of the tritium content in the air were carried in the locations of underground nuclear tests - "Balapan" and "Degelen" testing sites located in Semipalatinsk Test Site. The paper presents data on the levels and distribution of tritium in the air where tunnels and boreholes are located - explosion epicentres, wellheads and tunnel portals, as well as in estuarine areas of the venues for the underground nuclear explosions (UNE). 
A fuzzy approach for modelling radionuclide in lake system.	Radioactive liquid waste is generated during operation and maintenance of Pressurised Heavy Water Reactors (PHWRs). Generally low level liquid waste is diluted and then discharged into the near by water-body through blowdown water discharge line as per the standard waste management practice. The effluents from nuclear installations are treated adequately and then released in a controlled manner under strict compliance of discharge criteria. An attempt was made to predict the concentration of (3)H released from Kakrapar Atomic Power Station at Ratania Regulator, about 2.5 km away from the discharge point, where human exposure is expected. Scarcity of data and complex geometry of the lake prompted the use of Heuristic approach. Under this condition, Fuzzy rule based approach was adopted to develop a model, which could predict (3)H concentration at Ratania Regulator. Three hundred data were generated for developing the fuzzy rules, in which input parameters were water flow from lake and (3)H concentration at discharge point. The Output was (3)H concentration at Ratania Regulator. These data points were generated by multiple regression analysis of the original data. Again by using same methodology hundred data were generated for the validation of the model, which were compared against the predicted output generated by using Fuzzy Rule based approach. Root Mean Square Error of the model came out to be 1.95, which showed good agreement by Fuzzy model of natural ecosystem. 
Latent Herpesvirus 8 infection improves both insulin and glucose uptake in primary endothelial cells.	Human Herpesvirus 8 (HHV8), the causative agent of Kaposi sarcoma, induces a profound modification of infected cell behaviour, with reprogramming of gene expression and changes in physiological properties, over-expression of the insulin receptor, increased resistance to stress conditions and prolonged cell survival in conditions of serum deprivation. This paper shows that HHV8 infection induces a strong enhancement of both insulin and glucose uptake in primary endothelial cells (HUVEC). The increase in insulin uptake is already evident in the lytic phase of the viral infectious cycle, and reaches a maximum of up to 71% during the latent phase, whilst glucose uptake is slightly depressed during the lytic viral infection, but significantly enhanced compared with the control during the latent phase of viral infection, with an average increase of about 37% 25 days after cell infection.
HT to HTO conversion and field experiments near Darlington Nuclear Power Generating Station (DNPGS) site.	The Canadian input parameters related to tritiated hydrogen gas (HT) used in tritium dose models are currently based on experiments performed at the Chalk River Laboratories (CRL) site in 1986, 1987 and 1994. There is uncertainty in how well other sites experiencing atmospheric HT releases are represented by these data. In order to address this uncertainty, HT to HTO conversion factors were evaluated at different locations near the Darlington Nuclear Power Generating Station (DNPGS) site using various experimental approaches. These were D2 gas exposure chamber experiments, atmospheric tritium measurements, and HTO and OBT measurements in vegetation and soil. In addition to these field experiments, chamber experiments were conducted using HT gas on field soil samples. The suggested Canadian input parameters for atmospheric tritium releases estimate the total fraction of HT oxidized in air and in soil, at the site, to be up to a maximum of 2.4%. Based on the more limited data obtained near DNPGS in early spring, this fraction would likely be closer to 0.5%. The result suggests that current parameters provide a conservative estimate for the DNPGS site. 
Studying of tritium content in snowpack of Degelen mountain range.	The paper presents the results of investigation of tritium content in the layers of snow located in the streambeds of the "Degelen" massif contaminated with tritium. The objects of investigation were selected watercourses Karabulak, Uzynbulak, Aktybai located beyond the "Degelen" site. We studied the spatial distribution of tritium relative to the streambed of watercourses and defined the borders of the snow cover contamination. In the centre of the creek watercourses the snow contamination in the surface layer is as high as 40 000 Bq/L. The values of the background levels of tritium in areas not related to the streambed, which range from 40 to 50 Bq/L. The results of snow cover measurements in different seasonal periods were compared. The main mechanisms causing tritium transfer in snow were examined and identified. The most important mechanism of tritium transfer in the streams is tritium emanation from ice or soil surface. 
Decoloration and solubilization of plant tissue prior to determination of 3H, 14C, and 35S by liquid scintillation.	A method is described for the decoloration and partial solubilization of plant tissue with 2% sodium hypochlorite. Following treatment of the digest with ammonia, the samples are suitable for the determination of 3H, 14C, and 35S by liquid scintillation counting. The color quenching is negligible and counting efficiencies are high: 30-40% for 3H and 90-95% for 14C.
Determination of the specific activity of NaB3H4.	A method for the rapid determination of the specific activity of NaB3H4 is presented. NaB3H4 is used to reduce NAD+ to [3H]NADH, which is then isolated by anion exchange chromatography. The specific activity of the NaB3H4 is calculated from measurements of radioactivity and absorbance (340 nm) in the [3H]NADH fractions.
Analysis of tritiated water vapor by non-volatile liquid scintillant sorbent.	The quantitative analysis of tritiated water vapor in air was investigated by sorption into a non-volatile liquid scintillant solution sorbent of silicone oil. The activity of the beta-ray from the sorbed tritiated water vapor, 10(-7) microCi/mL in air, was directly measured with the help of the scintillator solution which also served as the sorbent. It was found that the variation of the partial vapor pressure of tritiated water in air was proportional to the sorbed amount in the liquid scintillator sorbent from the vaporized tritiated water. The relation was also expressed as a sorption isotherm equation and was compared to the Langmuir adsorption isotherm supporting the suggested adsorption by solid adsorbent.
Vial effect and background subtraction method in low-level tritium measurement by liquid scintillation counter.	Counting efficiencies of individual Teflon vials used in low-level tritium measurement by a liquid scintillation counter were investigated. The efficiency observed was fairly varied among vials in spite of being prepared in the same way. And the plots of the efficiency vs the external standard ratio give a straight line. More detailed investigation showed that this vial quenching and chemical quenching are simultaneously corrected by an external standard ratio. On the basis of the above results an appropriate background subtraction method is proposed.
Optimization and comparison of the MTT assay and the 3H-TdR assay for the detection of IL-2 in helper T cell precursor assays.	The helper T cell precursor (HTLp) assay is of value for predicting graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. The assay requires reliable detection of the amount of interleukin 2 (IL-2) produced by one cell. To optimize the IL-2 sensitivity of our HTLp assay we tested an IL-2 dependent cell line, CTLL-2, with two different measurement methods: a colorimetric assay with tetrazolium (MTT) and an isotope incorporation assay with 3H-thymidine (3H-TdR). The test conditions examined encompassed: time without IL-2, preincubation time in IL-2, CTLL-2 cell concentration and different human sera. Due to the different measurement procedures, the volumes of the IL-2 dilutions were 75 microl in assays with MTT and 150 microl in assays with 3H-TdR. We found that it was the amount of IL-2, not the concentration, that limited the growth of CTLL-2 cells. In the most optimal setting the MTT assay could detect 0.6 pg IL-2/well, corresponding to 8 pg/ml. For the 3H-TdR assay the sensitivity was 0.6 pg/well, corresponding to 4 pg/ml. Because of the possibility of IL-2 detection in the whole culture volume (150 microl), we found that the 3H-TdR assay was superior to the MTT assay with a 10-fold better sensitivity in different human sera.
Attomole detection of 3H in biological samples using accelerator mass spectrometry: application in low-dose, dual-isotope tracer studies in conjunction with 14C accelerator mass spectrometry.	This is the first demonstration of the use of accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) as a tool for the measurement of 3H with attomole (10(-18) mol) sensitivity in a biological study. AMS is an analytical technique for quantifying rare isotopes with high sensitivity and precision and has been most commonly used to measure 14C in both the geosciences and more recently in biomedical research. AMS measurement of serially diluted samples containing a 3H-labeled tracer showed a strong correlation with liquid scintillation counting. The mean coefficient of variation of 3H AMS based upon the analysis of separately prepared aliquots of these samples was 12%. The sensitivity for 3H detection in tissue, protein, and DNA was approximately 2-4 amol/mg of sample. This high sensitivity is comparable to detection limits for 14C-labeled carcinogens using 14C AMS and demonstrates the feasibility of 3H AMS for biomedical studies. One application of this technique is in low-dose, dual-isotope studies in conjunction with 14C AMS. We measured the levels of 3H-labeled 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and 14C-labeled 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) in rat liver tissue and bound to liver DNA and protein 4.5 h following acute administration of individual or coadministered doses in the range of 4-5100 pmol/kg of body weight. Levels of PhIP and MeIQx in whole tissue and bound to liver protein were dose-dependent. MeIQx-protein and -DNA adduct levels were higher than PhIP adduct levels, which is consistent with their respective carcinogenicity in this organ. Coadministration of PhIP and MeIQx did not demonstrate any measurable synergistic effects compared to administration of these compounds individually. These studies demonstrate the application of AMS for the low-level detection of 3H in small biological samples and for its use in conjunction with 14C AMS for dual-labeling studies.
