The use of chemical treatments for improved comminution of artificial stones.	The acoustic and mechanical properties of various stone compositions are significantly different and thus result in varying degrees of fragility. Consequently, results to shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) are influenced accordingly. We report the results of a study of fragility of various stone compositions, and the influence on each stone's baseline physical properties and fragility when exposed to various chemolytic solutions.
Hyperosmotic sodium salts reverse severe hemorrhagic shock: other solutes do not.	Severe hemorrhage in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs (25 mg/kg) is reversed by intravenous NaCl (4 ml/kg, 2,400 mosmol/l, 98% long-term survival). This paper compares survival rates and hemodynamic and metabolic effects of hypertonic NaCl with sodium salts (acetate, bicarbonate, and nitrate), chlorides [lithium and tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris)], and nonelectrolytes (glucose, mannitol, and urea) after severe hemorrhage (44.5 +/- 2.3 ml/kg blood loss). Sodium salts had higher survival rates (chloride, 100%; acetate, 72%; bicarbonate, 61%; nitrate, 55%) with normal stable arterial pressure after chloride and nitrate; near normal cardiac output after sodium chloride; normal acid-base equilibrium after all sodium salts; and normal mean circulatory filling pressure after chloride, acetate, and bicarbonate. Chlorides and nonelectrolytes produced low survival rates (glucose and lithium, 5%; mannitol, 11%; Tris, 22%; urea, 33%) with low cardiac output, low mean circulatory filling pressure, and severe metabolic acidosis. Plasma sodium, plasma bicarbonate, mean circulatory filling pressure, cardiac output, and arterial pressure correlated significantly with survival; other parameters, including plasma volume expansion or plasma osmolarity, did not. It is proposed that high plasma sodium is essential for survival.
Activity of the trometamol salt of fosfomycin in an in vitro model of the treatment of bacterial cystitis.	The response to trometamol fosfomycin of four strains of Escherichia coli was studied in an in vitro model in which the hydrokinetic aspects of the treatment of bacterial cystitis can be stimulated. Two strains of E. coli that were fully susceptible to fosfomycin, and a strain of intermediate susceptibility responded well to relatively low concentrations of the trometamol salt: doses achieving peak concentrations of 50 or 250 mg/l suppressed bacterial growth for at least 18 h; however, the emergence of resistance was completely suppressed only when a peak concentration of 2500 mg/l was achieved in the bladder model. A strain of E. coli that was fully resistant to fosfomycin in conventional minimum inhibitory concentration titrations responded to the highest dosage used, but this did not prevent further resistance from emerging. These results were obtained in the absence of the potentiating agent, glucose-6-phosphate, which is commonly used in susceptibility tests of fosfomycin. The implications of the results for fosfomycin dosage in bacterial cystitis and for the interpretation of susceptibility tests is discussed.
Methods of suppression of a myonephropathic metabolic syndrome after infra-renal aortic occlusion]	Acute arterial occlusion of the extremities may result in severe and complex metabolic derangement. In order to evaluate the development and means of therapeutic control of metabolic derangements following the acute arterial occlusion of extremities, 32 adult mongrel dogs weighing between 7 and 15 kg underwent acute arterial occlusion by cross-clamping the infrarenal aorta. The experimental animals were divided into two groups: an untreated group, and treated group. The former was divided into three groups--12, 24 and 48 hour's arterial occlusive groups and the latter into two groups with 48 hour's arterial occlusion--tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane (THAM) and perfusion groups. Biochemical and electrolyte analyses were measured before occlusion, immediately before, and 1, 3, 12, 24 and 48 hours after the release of the occlusion. The SGOT, CPK, aldolase, creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels rose after the release of the occlusion and were significantly higher in the 48 hour's group than in the 12 and 24 hour's occlusive groups. Among these enzymatic changes, the creatinine and urea nitrogen levels were high 48 hours after the release of the occlusion, though the others decreased with time after the occlusion release. The blood pH level fell after the occlusion in the untreated groups and these levels increased slowly after the release of the occlusion. However, there were no significant differences in the blood pH among the untreated groups. The acute arterial occlusion by cross-clamping the infra-renal aorta caused severe renal damage among the various organs. In the groups treated with THAM and perfusion, the SGOT, CPK, aldolase, creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels remained almost at preocclusion levels after the release of the occlusion. There were statistically significant differences in these enzymatic changes between the treated group and the 48 hour's occlusive group without treatment. The blood pH levels in the treated groups showed minimal changes after the release of the occlusive, although there were no significant differences in the blood pH between the treated groups and the 48 hour's occlusive group without treatment. It was concluded that the intravenous administration of THAM and peripheral washing were effective against untoward metabolic changes occurring in the ischemic extremities.
The intraoperative administration of ketorolac tromethamine in evaluating length of stay in a same day surgery unit.	This study was performed to determine if intraoperative administration of ketorolac tromethamine, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, could shorten the length of stay in the same day surgery unit of a 535-bed medical center. Fifty laparoscopic patients were included in this study. Laparoscopic patients were chosen because they demonstrated an increased incidence of postoperative pain that delayed hospital discharge. The study population was divided into a test and control group. To eliminate procedural variability, the 50 subjects were chosen from a single group practice. Length of stay was recorded on a data retrieval form. Reasons for delay in discharge were identified. Subjects who received ketorolac tromethamine were discharged an average of 30 minutes earlier than those who did not receive it (94 minutes versus 124 minutes, respectively). A t-test revealed this difference to be statistically significant (P < or = .004). Intraoperative administration of ketorolac tromethamine should be considered for laparoscopy patients in same day surgery units, because criteria for discharge, such as stable vital signs, minimal nausea or vomiting, minimal pain, and oriented x 3 with a stable gait, are met sooner.
Treatment of cystine stones: combined approach using open pyelolithotomy, percutaneous pyelolithotripsy, extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and chemolysis.	Treatment of cystine stones in the urinary tract can be difficult because of a high frequency of recurrence, resistance to Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy (ESWL), difficulty in localization and access to peripheral stones during Percutaneous Nephrolithotripsy (PCNL), and the insufficient effect of oral chemolysis. We present two cases of urinary cystine calculi treated with a combination of pyelolithotomy, PCNL, ESWL and percutaneous irrigation chemolysis, using N-acetylcysteine and Tromethamine-E.
Interaction of thyroid hormone and heparin in postischemic myocardial recovery.	Triiodothyronine (T3) administration can improve postischemic myocardial recovery. Heparin can interfere with cellular binding of T3. Introduction of heparin into an isolated heart model may interfere with this effect.
Lactate metabolism and lactic acidosis]	Lactate can be viewed as a metabolic dead end in that it can only be produced or utilized via pyruvate. Lactate production is determined primarily by pyruvate concentration and to a lesser extend by the redox state. Increased lactate production may result from tissue hypoxia, alkalosis, catecholamine and alanine transamination to pyruvate. Hyperlactatemia is observed in many pathological conditions. Current diagnostic criteria for lactic acidosis are a pH less than 7.35 and lactate concentration greater than 5 to 6 mmol/l. In our study series, malignancy was the most common underlying disease accompanied by lactic acidosis. Organ failure, cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus were also common. The prognosis of patients with these diseases were grave. In cases of lactic acidosis associated with diabetes mellitus, alcoholic liver disease, rhabdomyolysis and diabetic comas were noticeable as complications. Alcohol abuse was the most common cause of lactic acidosis associated with diabetes mellitus. In these cases, laboratory data showed prominent hyperlactatemia, hyperglycemia and acidemia and elevated anion gap. The mortality rate in these cases was 36% and higher in cases with organ failure. Treatment of lactic acidosis consists of alkalization by sodium bicarbonate with carbicarb, insulin-glucose-infusion, dichloroacetate therapy, tham administration, bicarbonate-buffered peritoneal dialysis and high bicarbonate-containing dialysis.
